CONTENTSCONTENTS 01 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
THINK BEFORE  
YOU PRINT
We’ve designed this document 
for optimum viewing on screen. Please don’t print it unless you really have to and save precious resources.VIEWING THIS  
ON AN iPAD?
To maximise usability of this report we recommend you  
use Apple’s iBooks reader.  
If you don’t have it you can download it for free here.CONSCIOUS*  
ACTIONS
SUSTAINABILITY  
REPORT 2010
* IS THE  NAME  FOR  ALL  THE  WORK  WE DO TO 
OFFER  YOU  MORE  SUSTAINABLE  FASHION , 
BOTH  TODAY  AND  TOMORROW
02 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010CONTENTS
A message from our CEO ...................................... 03 
About H&M  .......................................................... 06 
About this report .................................................... 09 
Memberships and indexes ...................................... 10 
Vision, policy and strategy ..................................... 11 
Provide fashion for conscious customers ............... 17 
Choose and reward responsible partners  ............... 27 
Be ethical ............................................................... 62 
Be climate smart  ................................................... 69 
Reduce, reuse, recycle ............................................ 78 
Use natural resources responsibly  ......................... 83 
Strengthen communities ...................................... 100 
Performance appendix ......................................... 108 
GRI content index ................................................ 142 
PROVIDE FASHION 
FOR CONSCIOUS 
CUSTOMERSBE ETHICAL BE CLIMATE  
SMARTREDUCE , REUSE , 
RECYCLE CONSCIOUS*  
ACTIONS 
SUST AINABILITY  
REPORT 2010
1
CHOOSE  
AND REWARD 
RESPONSIBLE 
PARTNERS2 3 4 5
USE NATURAL 
RESOURCES RESPONSIBLY6 7
STRENGTHEN 
COMMUNITIES 
CONTENTS
CONTENTS 03 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010A MESSAGE  fROM  
OUR  CEO
WELCOME  TO OUR  CONSCIOUS * 
ACTIONS  SUSTAINABILITY 
REPORT  2010 
The year was full of highlights at  
H&M as we welcomed customers to 
spectacular new stores in exciting 
locations around the world, including 
three new markets: South Korea, Turkey and, via franchise, Israel.  
We also expanded online sales to the UK, one of H&M’s biggest markets. 
During the year, our in-house  
designers created a range of well-
received fashion collections and we 
launched successful collaborations 
with fashion icons Lanvin and Sonia Rykiel, as well as with world-renowned architect, Jean Nouvel. We acquired full ownership of the brands Monki, 
Weekday and Cheap Monday and 
continued developing our brand COS and our home textile concept, Home.
By the end of 2010, we were offering 
fashion and quality at the best price  
to customers in 38 countries, through 
more than 2,200 stores. Profits  
for the year were up 13 percent  to SEK 25 billion and sales were up  
to SEK 127 billion (including VAT), making H&M one of the world’s  
largest fashion retailers.
With size comes responsibility and 
influence. We want our customers always to feel that we do our best to 
ensure that the fashion we offer has 
been made, transported and sold responsibly. Taking this responsibility seriously creates opportunities for H&M and we see it as part of our 
business proposition.
We strive to improve our  
customer offering at all times.  
Adding sustainability value to our 
products is one way to achieve  
this. This way we can, together  
with our millions of customers,  
make a positive contribution to  
a more sustainable future. 
We are often asked how we can  
offer fashion at such affordable  
prices. We can do this because we 
have many years of experience, 
efficient logistics, strong market knowledge, long-term relationships with our suppliers and as few middlemen as possible. 
Today’s economy is global and it is  
not a question of whether companies 
like ours should be present in developing countries, it is a  
question of how we do it. 
A misconception seems to be that  
the price of a product automatically 
tells us something about the working conditions of the people who 
produced it. What truly matters are 
the efforts to improve conditions in supplier factories and the results  
we achieve. 
For H&M, sustainability is a natural 
part of doing business in a globalised world. Stable purchasing and sales markets, in which people are treated with respect and where resources  
are usedresponsibly, are essential  
to our business model. Naturally,  
we have to play a role in making  
this business context a reality.
Salaries, workers’ rights and health 
and safety are some of the most 
CONTENTS 04
 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
A MESSAGE  fROM  OUR  CEO
important challenges in our supply 
chain and we are happy to see progress on most of our requirements. 
We have also taken steps to increase 
our influence on stages further back  
in our value chain.
By contributing both to improvements 
in standards and to economic growth, 
foreign trade can play a major role  
in the development of countries and can help to lift people out of poverty. 
As a buyer, H&M indirectly creates 
jobs for hundreds of thousands of people in the countries we source from. We believe that, by being present in these countries and  
using our influence to promote  
good practice, we can make a  
lasting difference. 
To continue our efforts to play as  
full a role as possible throughout  
our operations, we have made 
sustainability the responsibility  
of all departments in the company.  
This means that we move further 
towards integrating social and 
environmental concern into the daily decision-making for everyone at H&M. To help each department to find ways of converting this responsibility into action, in 2010 we introduced seven 
broad commitments as the core of  
our sustainability strategy.
We also gave our sustainability 
programme a name: H&M Conscious. 
As part of this new approach, we  
will communicate to colleagues, 
customers and other stakeholders,  
the Conscious Actions we are taking 
to fulfil these strategic commitments.
As a starting point, Spring 2011 will  
see our first Conscious Collection  
hit H&M stores worldwide. This 
co-ordinated fashion range for women, 
men and children will be made from environmentally adapted materials. Following this collection, a continuous range of Conscious Products will  
be available in our stores, making  
it easier for our customers to  
make an informed and more sustainable choice. 
Given our determination to be a 
responsible business, it is natural  
that we continue to support the  10 principles of the United Nations  
Global Compact. 
Among our achievements in 2010  
was our announcement in September, 
together with Levi Strauss & Co, of a global ban on sandblasting in favour  
of other techniques used to create a 
worn look on garments such as denim. 
This move is part of our ongoing work to improve the health and safety of workers in the apparel industry. 
H&M is one of the world’s largest users 
of certified organic cotton. In 2010, the amount we used increased once again, to more than 15,000 tonnes. 
2010 also saw the first cotton harvest 
from the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI), a multi-stakeholder programme aimed at bringing social and environmental improvements to conventional cotton 
growing. In 2010, we set a new, 
ambitious target for all cotton in H&M garments to come from sustainable sources, including Better Cotton, organic and recycled cotton, by 2020. 
In 2011, we are taking H&M to five 
more new markets. In March, we “ To continue our efforts to  
play as full a role as possible,  
we have made sustainability the 
responsibility of all departments in the company.”
The Conscious Collection, made with environmentally adapted 
materials, hits H&M stores worldwide in spring 2011.
CONTENTS 05
 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
opened successfully in Croatia and 
Romania. This autumn we will open the first H&M store in Singapore, as 
well as launching in two new franchise 
markets, Morocco and Jordan.
Our target is to increase the number  
of stores by 10-15 percent per year and  
to increase sales in comparable units.  
This growth, which is fully self-financed, 
will take place alongside a continued emphasis on quality, sustainability and 
continued high profitability.
In our global expansion it is important 
that we keep strengthening H&M as  
an attractive employer. Today H&M 
employs about 87,000 people; they 
are the key to our success. In order  
to encourage and acknowledge our employees’ long-term involvement,  
at the beginning of 2011, we launched 
a long-term incentive programme  
for all H&M employees. The H&M 
Incentive Program rewards all employees on the same basic principle, regardless of position,  
salary level or age. This means  
that our employees will be able  
to benefit from H&M’s expected A MESSAGE  fROM  OUR  CEO
“ Today’s economy is global and  
it is not a question of whether  
companies like ours should be  
present in developing countries,  
it is a question of how we do it.”growth in value in the same manner  
as a shareholder.
By keeping and attracting skilled, 
creative and devoted colleagues around the world, we hope to stay  
at the forefront of sustainable business practices.
Thank you for taking the time to learn 
more about our sustainability work.  
 
  
Karl-Johan Persson 
CEO, H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB.
H&M AT A GLANCE 
 
– 38 markets 
– 2,206 stores – 87,000 employees 
–  Sales including VAT  
SEK 127 billion
– Profit after tax SEK 18.7 billion
CONTENTS 06 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010ABOUT H&M
H&M’s business concept is to offer our 
customers fashion and quality at the best price. Our in-house designers create a wide and varied product range for everyone who loves fashion, whatever their age. Quality is key, right through from the first design idea to our customers’ experience of our products. That means meeting or exceeding our customers’ expectations. for us, that includes 
working hard to be sustainable in everything we do. H&M is driven by strong values and we aim for sustainability to play a role in every decision we make. We want to offer our Conscious Customers a more sustainable choice in fashion. GLOBAL PRESENCE,  
GLOBAL IMPACT AND REACH 
In 1947, Hennes opened in Västerås, 
Sweden. Today, H&M Hennes & Mauritz AB sells fashion for all the 
family under the brands of H&M, COS, 
Monki, Weekday and Cheap Monday, along with home textiles at H&M Home. With more than 2,200 stores, we are now present in 38 countries  
on four continents, with H&M stores opening in five more markets in 2011. In addition, internet and catalogue sales are available in eight countries, 
now including the UK. Our size and 
growth help us to make our products, our company and our industry  
more sustainable.We do not own or operate any of the factories producing our goods, but instead work with approximately  
700 suppliers in around 30 countries, mainly in Asia and Europe. Without  
a doubt, our global presence has  
an impact on the people and communities around us, as well as  
on the environment. Garments can require heavy use of water throughout their life cycle and we all share the urgent task to confront the threats  
of climate change. 
We believe we have a responsibility 
towards everyone who contributes  
to our success and to the environment 
around us – from the cotton fields to 
our customers. Actively working to fulfil this responsibility is a prerequisite for being able to maintain quality  
and profitability in the long term.
You can read more about our business 
development at:  
www.hm.com/annualreportWe believe we have a 
responsibility towards 
everyone who contributes  
to our success and to the  
environment around us 
CONTENTS 07 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010ABOUT H&M
In February, H&M launched a collection 
of knitwear and playful accessories for women and girls designed by French 
fashion icon, Sonia Rykiel. A specially 
designed bag was sold in our stores with 30 percent of the sales price going to H&M and UNICEF’s All for Children project. In November, one of biggest fashion 
events of the year hit around 200 
H&M stores across the globe: our collaboration with the French fashion house Lanvin, full of colourful tailored party dresses.  
In early 2011, we transformed cut remnants from the production  
of this collection into a new, fashionable collection – the  
Waste Collection.
H&M is also growing through our Shop Online and catalogue sales. With the launch in the UK in 2010, 
these sales channels are now 
available in eight countries and we have announced plans for a US launch around the turn of 2011/2012. We opened the doors to our first H&M 
store in Turkey. H&M also launched in 
Israel and South Korea. Our brand Monki took its first steps out of Europe and was warmly welcomed in Hong Kong, with customers queuing up 
outside for the whole opening week.
1 3
4210 
HIGHLIGHTS  
fROM 2010 
ABOUT H&M
We announced our target for all our 
cotton to come from sustainable sources by 2020. This includes 
organic cotton, recycled cotton and 
better cotton harvested through the Better Cotton Initiative, in which H&M is an active member together with other retailers and 
organisations such as WWF.5
The Garden Collection, made with 
environmentally adapted materials, hit our stores in spring, with up-to-
the-minute designs and customers 
queuing up in front of H&M  
stores across the globe.6
In order to show our appreciation  
for our employees, H&M initiated  
an incentive programme for all 
employees. The programme is due  
to start in 2011, with a donation from 
the Stefan Persson family of around  
4 million H&M shares – with a value  
of approximately SEK 1 billion – to  
the Swedish Foundation named  
H&M Incentive Program Stiftelse. 78
We used more organic cotton than ever before in our products – more than 15,000 tonnes. This is an increase 
of 77 percent compared to 2009 and 
it makes H&M one of the largest users of organic cotton in the world (2009: rank 5 according to Textile Exchange).
9
In 2010, H&M together with Levi Strauss & Co. announced a global  
ban on sandblasting, a technique used 
to give garments a used or worn-out 
look. Without appropriate protection, the use of this technique can impose health risks on workers. We are happy to see that many other companies are 
now joining this complete ban. 
10
Raising awareness of worker rights 
among those who work in our supply chain is a vital part of our strategy  
to contribute to long lasting improvements in conditions.  
We continued our training programme, using short films to educate workers  
in Bangladesh and, since the start  
of 2008, we have reached  
more than 300,000  
workers. We will expand  
this successful  
programme to  
India in 2011.We used more organic  
cotton than ever before  
in our products, more than  
15,000 tonnes
THE GARDEN COLLECTION 
LAUNCHED IN 2010
CONTENTS 08 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 09
 CONTENTSABOUT THIS REPORT
HOW WE REPORT
We report activities and progress  
on our sustainability programmes 
annually. This report covers the global 
group operations of H&M Hennes  
& Mauritz AB. We have aligned the 
reporting period with our fiscal  
year, which is from 1 December –  
30 November. Our last sustainability 
report was published in April 2010.
Our 2010 Conscious* Actions 
Sustainability Report is structured 
according to our seven strategic 
commitments . As signatories to the 
UN Global Compact, we publish this 
report as our Communication  
on Progress (COP). As we are also 
signatories to the UNGC’s CEO Water 
Mandate, you can find the related COP 
in this report as well.
GLOBAL REPORTING  
INITIATIVE (GRI) 
We use the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and the pilot Apparel and Footwear Sector 
Supplement to inform our 
sustainability reporting. A GRI reference table can be found in  this report on page 142. We have 
included the indicators from the pilot of the Apparel and Footwear Sector 
Supplement but have not included 
them in our self-assessment rating,  
as they are not yet finalised.
ASSURANCE 
We are committed to open and honest disclosure and this report is part of that process. We also believe that  
our involvement in multi-stakeholder initiatives like the Fair Labor Association, as well as our own  
efforts to elicit feedback from our stakeholders, some of which is 
published in this report, add value  
and credibility to our sustainability 
work and reporting. We recognise  
that many of our stakeholders expect 
our reporting to be independently 
assured. We have invested significant resources in developing our data systems and analysis and we are constantly looking to improve the  
way we report. As such, we have  
now started a process to look into options for assuring our reporting.FEEDBACK 
We would be happy to hear your feedback on this report. To tell us what you think or ask any questions 
you might have, please contact 
hendrik.alpen@hm.com .
CONTENTS 10
 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
MEMBERSHIPS  UN G LOBAL  COMPACT  (UNGC)
We are signatories to the United Nations Global Compact.  
The Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses 
that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies  
with 10 universally accepted principles concerning human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. H&M is also a signatory to the CEO Water Mandate, a voluntary initiative from the UNGC addressing the urgent issue of water scarcity. 
SUSTAINABLE  APPAREL  COALITION  (SAC)
As a group of sustainability leaders in the apparel sector, including H&M, the coalition works on a collaborative approach to improve the environmental and social impacts of apparel and footwear 
products. Read more about our involvement on page 21. 
BUSINESS  FOR  SOCIAL  RESPONSIBILITY  (BSR) 
H&M has been a member of Business for Social Responsibility 
(BSR) for several years. BSR is a global network of more than 250 member companies, which aims to develop sustainable business 
strategies and solutions through consulting, research, and 
cross-sector collaboration www.bsr.org. FAIR LABOR  ASSOCIATION  (FLA) 
We are accredited members of the Fair Labor Association  
(FLA), a non-profit organisation dedicated to improving working conditions in factories worldwide. The FLA conducts independent 
audits of suppliers that we use in China and Turkey and publishes 
results on its website. Read more about independent monitoring and verification at www.fairlabor.org. Our brand, Cheap Monday, is member of the Fair Wear Foundation (FWF) and its suppliers  
are subject to independent monitoring under their scope  
www.fairwear.org . 
FTSE4G OOD  INDE x
H&M has been independently assessed according to the FTSE4Good criteria and has satisfied requirements to become  
a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series. Created by the 
global index company FTSE Group, FTSE4Good is an equity index 
series that is designed to facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards. Companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series have met stringent social and environmental criteria and are positioned to capitalise 
on the benefits of responsible business practices.
Other responsible investment indices of which H&M is a 
constituent of, include: the Dow Jones Sustainability Index Nordic; 
ECPI Ethical Index Euro; ECPI Ethical Index Global; and the OMX 
GES Sustainability Nordic Index.MEMBERSHIPS  AND  INDE xES
CONTENTS 11
 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
VISION
H&M’s business operations aim to  
be run in a way that is economically, 
socially and environmentally 
sustainable. By sustainable, we mean 
that the needs of both present and future generations must be fulfilled. 
SUSTAINABILITY POLICY
H&M’s business concept is to offer fashion and quality at the best price. Quality includes ensuring that 
products are manufactured in a way 
that is environmentally and socially sustainable. Like all H&M’s activities, our CSR work is based on a drive for continuous improvement. We have a 
responsibility towards everyone who 
contributes to our success, including those who are not employees of H&M. That is why we work closely with  
our suppliers to develop sustainable social and environmental standards  
in the factories that manufacture  
H&M’s products. 
We have to ensure that our 
employees’ human rights are not violated, and the same applies to employees of our suppliers and other VISION, POLICY  
AND STRATEGY
co-operation partners, and to our customers. 
We apply the precautionary principle 
in our environmental work and  have adopted a preventative  
approach with the substitution of hazardous chemicals. 
We strive to use resources as 
efficiently as possible and to minimise waste. By adopting new technologies 
and methods, we can work 
preventatively to minimise our environmental footprint through improved production processes and our choice of materials. We must 
continuously review the company’s 
goals and strategies to reduce the company’s climate impact. 
Our decisions are based on careful 
consideration, where shorter or 
longer-term environmental benefits are weighed up in order to ensure that we choose solutions that are sustainable in the long term. 
We want to be a good global citizen 
and act responsibly in our business relations. We take a clear stand against all forms of corruption. We engage  
in dialogue with all our various 
stakeholders to build trust in our 
operations within the environment  
we rely on for our long-term success.SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY
At H&M, we see sustainability as an integral part of what it means to be a successful business. That’s why, when 
we think of sustainability, we look at  
it in terms of three connected areas: 
People, Planet and Profit.
We aim to follow a product life cycle 
approach in our sustainability work. 
While we do take into account that our influence is stronger closer to our own operations, we are working hard to 
minimise our impact and contribute to 
positive change along our entire value chain. Thereby, we interact with various stakeholders such as our customers, employees, suppliers as well as local 
and international NGOs and Unions, 
authorities, our shareholders and many more in a mutual dialogue.
We work to make H&M a business in 
which sustainability is a natural and 
fully integrated part of everything we do, and a responsibility that all our departments share and manage together. Our Head Office-based CSR 
Support department anchors and 
supports this process.By adopting new technologies  
and methods, we can work 
preventatively to minimise  
our environmental footprint
We take the entire life cycle of our 
products into account.
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 12
VISION, POLICY AND STRATEGY
PRODUCT  LIFE  CYCLE 
 
 
 
  
RAW MATERIALS PRODUCT 
MANUFACTURESALES MATERIAL 
PROCESSINGTRANSPORT CUSTOMER1 2 3 4 5 6
The strength of H&M’s focus and influence along the product life cycle
CONTENTS 13
 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
OUR COMMITMENTS
To continue the implementation of this 
strategy and to help us remain at the forefront of our industry, we defined 
seven strategic commitments on 
sustainability in 2010. These were defined based on our previous long-term goals, our long experience  
with our sustainability work and  
our constant dialogue with our stakeholders. The commitments guide our efforts to make our business and products economically, environmentally  
and socially more sustainable.
To emphasise and clarify our efforts 
internally and externally, we have given our sustainability programme a name: 
H&M Conscious. This name stands for 
all our work-in-progress for a more sustainable fashion future.Our Conscious Actions work towards 
fulfilling our commitments. You can 
read about some of these Actions throughout this report and find out about our progress. As part of our 
shared responsibility approach, further 
Conscious Actions will be developed continually throughout our organisation. 
Alongside these actions, we offer  
our customers Conscious Products, a 
selection of more sustainable fashion choices. The starting point will be a first Conscious Collection, which hits our stores in April 2011. 1.  PROVIDE  FASHION  FOR 
CONSCIOUS  CUSTOMERS
Make products with an added  
sustainability value.
2.  CHOOSE  AND  REWARD 
RESPONSIBLE  PARTNERS
Work with partners who share our values.
3.  BE ETHICAL
Always act with integrity and respect. 
 4.  BE CLIMATE  SMART
Be energy-efficient and inspire others  
to reduce total CO2 emissions.
5.  REDUCE , REUSE , RECYCLE 
Aim for zero waste to landfill.
 6.  USE NATURAL  RESOURCES  RESPONSIBLY
Conserve water, soil, air and species. 
 7.  STRENGTHEN  COMMUNITIES
Contribute to the development of the 
communities where we operate.VISION, POLICY AND STRATEGY
SEVEN  OUR
COMMITMENTS:
CONTENTS 14
 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
MANAGING  SUSTAINABILITY  
AS A SHARED  RESPONSIBILITY 
 VISION, POLICY AND STRATEGY
CSR support departmen t 
Our CSR team comprises over  
90 employees of whom 15 are part  
of our Head Office CSR support 
department, primarily based in Stockholm. Alongside its work to provide expert support to other business functions and to co-ordinate 
goals, our CSR support department is 
responsible for approving methods and tools for data gathering and reviewing performance. Our Head of 
CSR reports directly to our CEO. The 
vast majority of our CSR team work in our 15 production offices around the world. From there, they work directly with our suppliers to support them in 
complying with our Code of Conduct 
and develop strategies and methods to make our supply chain more sustainable.  Business functions Each department develops action plans in line with H&M’s strategic 
commitments, implements them, 
measures and analyses their performance and reports results  
to the CSR support department.
INTEGRATING AND MANAGING 
SUSTAINABILITY
As our sustainability strategy sets out, 
all departments at H&M are individually responsible for integrating sustainable 
thinking into their business routines, 
initiating actions and setting goals in order to fulfil our commitments.  
This shared responsibility approach moves us away from having a CSR 
department that drives all our 
sustainability activity, to a CSR support department that sets overall targets, defines strategies and guides other 
departments within H&M. 
In Autumn 2010, individual meetings 
were held with the different departments within our organisation. 
Discussions were based on an analysis, 
conducted by the CSR support team, of that department’s impact on our sustainability. This process will continue throughout 2011.Actions necessary to enable us to  
fulfil our seven commitments were then agreed on at follow-up sessions. 
So far, hundreds of different 
suggestions for further Conscious Actions have been reviewed by  
the CSR support department and included in an action plan for 2011.
Sustainability issues influencing more 
than one department are discussed  
in a decision-making forum called  
the Green Room.
CONTENTS 15
 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
INTERVIEW  WITH  
HELENA  HELMERSSON ,  
HEAD  OF CSR 
YOU STARTED  AS NEW  HEAD  
OF CSR AT H&M IN 2010 –  
WHAT  IS YOUR  VISION ?
Improving the environmental and 
social sustainability of our supply chain has been a major focus of our work 
since the 90s and it will remain a core 
part of our programme. My long-term vision here is to see our suppliers and their employees able to take full ownership of their sustainability issues. 
Although I know that there is still a long 
way to go, we are making progress. But today, sustainability is about so much more than just our direct suppliers.  
We have already taken important steps to reduce impacts further down our value chain. 
Alongside our goal for all the cotton we 
use to be produced more sustainably 
by 2020, we have started to look at the carbon and water use impact of our products across their entire life cycle. In the future, being at the forefront of 
sustainability will mean aiming both to be carbon neutral and to produce zero 
waste. That has to be our ultimate aim. 
I think it is important to bring our 
customers along with us on this journey. We need to make them more aware of all the work we do to be more sustainable. Fashion should be fun and 
we want our customers to be able to 
rely on us taking our responsibility seriously. We want to inspire them  
to adapt their own behaviour too; for 
example, by lowering the temperature 
at which they wash their clothes.  
I hope that giving our sustainability programme a name, H&M Conscious, will make it easier to engage with  
our customers on these issues  and help them to make more sustainable choices.
WHAT  DO YOU  THINK  ARE  
YOUR  BIGGEST  CHALLENGES 
AHEAD  IN THIS  POSITION ?
Remaining at the forefront of sustainability in our industry is a challenge. The crucial factor is  
how well we manage to extend  
our work to improve social and environmental conditions further  
down our value chain. The other big challenge is to tackle 
complex structural issues that underlie       
much of our supply chain sustainability issues, many of which require an industry-wide response. The discussion about minimum wages  
in Bangladesh last year is one such example. There, engagement with other buyers and using our joint influence over lawmakers was needed 
in order for us to make a difference. 
Taking an active role in public policy, working further towards collaborative actions and building bridges that lead to lasting improvements are some  
of the things we will put even more focus on in the future.
OBVIOUSLY , H&M HAS  A LOT  OF 
GOOD  INITIATIVES , BUT  HOW 
SUSTAINABLE  CAN  H&M BE 
WHEN  OFFERING  GARMENTS 
THAT  COST  SO LITTLE ?
We can offer our customers a more sustainable choice. We can make a difference to hundreds of thousands 
of people working in our supply  
chain and to the environment and 
communities around us. We work hard to make this difference bigger every 
VISION, POLICY AND STRATEGY
CONTENTS 16
 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
This makes minimum wages in the 
supply chain a competition neutral factor and, as we did just recently in 
Bangladesh, we will continue to use 
our influence and demand minimum wages be increased wherever they  
are not enough to live on.
With more than 60 years’ experience  
in this business, we have learned  
a lot about those factors that  
make it possible for us to offer  
fashion at such affordable prices.  
And we have contiously invested  
in strengthening these.
Our size and our ability to buy large 
volumes play an important role as well. 
We cut out middlemen wherever possible and instead focus on long-term, direct and stable relations with our suppliers. This close co-operation 
helps us to learn from each other and 
to co-operate in a more efficient way. Having a growing business partner like H&M allows our suppliers to plan their business development better and we 
support this through active capacity 
planning with them. This means that our suppliers can set their prices on the basis of a lower level of risk and we, in turn, can pass these benefits on to our customers – a win-win situation. 
TALKING  ABOUT  WIN -WIN 
SITUATIONS , HOW  DOES  
YOUR  SUSTAINABILITY  WORK 
CONTRIBUTE  TO BETTER 
BUSINESS ?
Associating social and environmental improvements with profit is actually not hard; and it’s not only the obvious 
things, like energy and resource 
efficiency leading to cost savings. Treating our employees and business partners in a fair way helps us to retain talent and build long-term and trusting 
relationships. As cotton is our most 
important raw material, we work hard to gain influence over this stage further back in our value chain. Supporting 
those in our value chain to become 
better at what they do makes their business more sustainable and our supply more stable and efficient. 
What is more, I strongly believe  
that our customers will increasingly 
appreciate our efforts to offer more sustainable products as well.So, by integrating sustainable thinking throughout our company, we can gain 
advantages that help us to remain 
competitive and continue to deliver quality and fashion at the best price.day. Today there are a lot of companies 
offering garments at affordable prices. 
We believe that improving conditions and creating a leaner supply chain  
that is more efficient, stable and sustainable will give us competitive 
advantages in the long run, so this 
work is not incompatible with offering our customers the best price. 
IF THAT ’S THE  CASE , HOW  DO 
SALES  PRICES  AND  THE  WAGES 
OF GARMENT  WORKERS  RELATE 
TO EACH  OTHER ? 
Many people seem to believe that  
low prices are automatically related  
to bad working conditions and low 
wages. In fact, today, many garments 
are produced in low cost countries, regardless of their sales price.  
The truth is that the price of a garment does not tell us much about how  
it is produced. We share many of  
our suppliers with a lot of other  
brands. Wages for the workers are  
the same no matter which brand’s 
order they work on. What matters  
is the effort companies make to 
improve conditions. VISION, POLICY AND STRATEGY
“ We can make a difference  
to hundreds of thousands of 
people working in our supply 
chain and to the environment and communities around us.”
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 17PROVIDE 
FASHION  FOR 
CONSCIOUS 
CUSTOMERS
Sustainable Apparel  
Coalition formed1
Our business idea is to offer our customers fashion  
and quality at the best price. To us, quality includes our 
products being safe and being produced and sold under  
good conditions, with limited impact on the environment.  
We work hard to meet and exceed our customers’ expectations and constantly to improve our products.  
We want to offer our customers products that have added sustainability value and empower them to make more informed and sustainable choices.IN THIS  SECTION 
Conscious products ............................................... 18 
Product safety and quality .................................... 23 
USD 2,500,000 of donations 
generated by sales of  
cause-related products30,000 chemical  
tests conducted 
3 0 0 0 0
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 18
 CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 18GARDEN COLLECTION
In 2010, H&M for the first time  
offered a full fashion collection  
made from organic or recycled 
materials such as organic cotton, 
organic linen, recycled polyester  
and Tencel®. Investing in such 
materials and demonstrating how  
they can be used to make fashionable 
garments that meet our customers’ 
demands was an important objective. Recycled polyester used for this collection was made from PET bottles. This collection represented about  
5 percent of our total of garments produced from environmentally adapted materials. The interest  
from both fashion media and our 
customers has been very high. CONSCIOUS  PRODUCTSPROVIDE  FASHION  FOR  CONSCIOUS  CUSTOMERS
The Garden Collection 
succesfully combined more sustainable materials with fashionable designs.
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 19
CONSCIOUS  PRODUCTS
CONSCIOUS COLLECTION – 
SUSTAINABLE STYLE BY H&M 
We aim to make it easier for our 
customers to make an informed  and more sustainable choice.  
H&M Conscious is the name for all  
the work we do for a more sustainable 
fashion future. In our stores, this name will, from now on, highlight all the products that come with added 
sustainability value.
Following the success of the Garden 
Collection, H&M is introducing this 
concept with a first dedicated 
Conscious Collection in Spring 2011. Our designers have been inspired by different shades of white, one of the most important fashion colours this 
spring. The Collection is made with 
more sustainable materials such as organic cotton, Tencel
® and recycled 
polyester. The launch of this collection will be promoted through different 
communication activities. Read more 
about how we work towards more sustainable use of raw materials from page 83.PROVIDE  FASHION  FOR  CONSCIOUS  CUSTOMERS
With the launch of the 
Conscious Collection,  
a spring fashion range  
for women, men and children, hits H&M stores globally. Being made with environmentally adapted materials, the Collection  
is a starting point for a continous concept.
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 20
THREE Q UESTIONS  TO A NN-SOFIE  JOHANSSON ,  
HEAD  OF DESIGN  AT H&M 
 
  
  
 
  
 
   WHAT  DO CONSCIOUS  
CUSTOMERS  ExPECT  FROM  H&M? 
I think our customers expect us to act in a responsible and sustainable way in everything  
we do; and, of course, they want us to continue offering fashion basics and the latest designs, 
made with respect to people and planet, at an 
affordable price. 
WHAT  CAN  YOUR  DESIGN  TEAM  DO  
TO MEET  THESE  REQUIREMENTS ?
We think a lot about the materials we use.  
And increasingly, we use materials that are better 
for the environment. It’s not limited to organic cotton anymore. The range of materials is much broader today and as designers, we have the chance to show what great garments you can 
make out of them. 
We also think about how garments can be 
designed so that as little waste as possible results 
from their production. We can also use remnants to make new clothes. This is good for the environment and, in turn, helps us to offer  
our customers the best value for money. 
YOU OBVIOUSLY  HAVE  GREEN  AMBITIONS , 
BUT  H&M SELLS  MILLIONS  OF GARMENTS 
EACH  YEAR . IS THERE  NOT  A 
CONTRADICTION ?
We want to offer our millions of customers a 
better choice. Our scale means that we can have a big impact on the fashion industry – in our supply chain and beyond. Fashion should be fun and our customers should be able to rely on us taking our responsibilities seriously. This also 
includes offering our customers designs that are 
meant to last longer than just one season.EU FLOWER  ECO -LABEL 
Since 2005, we have sold baby wear bearing the EU’s Flower eco-label. The label certifies that harmful substances 
have been limited and water pollution 
reduced across the whole production chain, from the raw cotton to the final product. As with all other H&M garments, baby wear bearing the 
Flower eco-label also complies with 
H&M’s own Chemical Restrictions. 
We plan to continue with the use of 
the Flower eco-label. In 2010, we sold 
2,037,600 certified garments, which  
is 9 percent more than the year before (2009: 1,875,000). Since 2010, all of our Flower eco-labelled garments 
contain at least 3 percent organic 
cotton, while many are made of  
100 percent organic cotton.PROVIDE  FASHION  FOR  CONSCIOUS  CUSTOMERS
CONSCIOUS  PRODUCTS
COSMETIC  PRODUCTS  MADE 
WITH  ORGANIC  INGREDIENTS
Debuting in stores at the beginning  
of March 2010, our range of everyday cosmetic essentials, including shower 
gel, body scrub, body lotion, hand 
cream and lip balm, are all based on natural and organic ingredients. They are certified by Ecocert, Europe’s biggest certification body for organic 
and natural cosmetics. These 
products go together with matching toilet bags made from organic cotton.2,037 ,600 
Garments labelled with the 
flower eco-label sold in 2010 
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 21
stages objectively, and measure 
associated impacts.
The companies that form the 
Sustainable Apparel Coalition are, together, developing an industry-wide measurement tool: an Apparel and Footwear Index for sustainability 
performance. This will be tested in 
2011. It has an approach that enables companies to evaluate the entire apparel life cycle, from materials, 
manufacturing and packaging to 
transportation, use and end of life. 
We believe that transparent,  
credible, practical and universal  
tools and standards for defining  
and measuring environmental and 
social performance, will support the individual interests of all stakeholders.          
Initially, the aim will be for the index  
to support the coalition members  
in identifying and choosing better 
practices. The expectation is that consumer-facing scores will be 
developed in the future. We will 
continue to communicate our engagement in the Sustainable SUSTAINABLE  APPAREL 
COALITION
The environmental and social challenges around the global apparel supply chain affect our entire industry. 
These challenges reflect some 
structural issues that no individual company can solve alone.
Therefore, a group of sustainability 
leaders in the apparel industry, 
including H&M, began meeting in 2010 with a common goal of developing  
a universal index to measure 
environmental and social performance 
of apparel products and to identify opportunities for pre-competitive collaboration in the apparel supply chain to improve performance. The 
common vision is an apparel industry 
that produces no unnecessary environmental harm and has a positive impact on the people and communities associated with its activities. 
For H&M, product innovation is crucial 
and this initiative, is an important forum to share experiences and best practice. We believe that it can define 
good processes in different life cycle PROVIDE  FASHION  FOR  CONSCIOUS  CUSTOMERS
CONSCIOUS  PRODUCTS
Apparel Coalition, and its progress,  
as the work proceeds.
For more information visit 
www.apparelcoalition.org
COLLECTIONS THAT INVEST  
IN OUR COMMUNITIES 
Offering products with added sustainability value can also involve engaging with our customers to 
support our community investment 
projects and help raise awareness on the issues they address. In recent years, we have introduced more and more collections and products offering 
our customers the choice to contribute 
to selected projects in the areas of education, HIV/AIDS and water. In addition, many of the products in these 
collections are made from sustainable 
materials such as organic cotton. Read more about these projects and our work to strengthen communities on page 100.
Fashion Against Aids  For the third 
year in a row, together with Designers Against Aids, H&M launched a collection to raise awareness around HIV/AIDS and to contribute to 
prevention projects with a donation  
of 25 percent of sales prices. The 
2010 collection came right in time  
for the summer’s festival season  
and featured dedicated designs.
WaterAid  Since 2002, we have 
supported WaterAid with 10 percent 
of the sales price of selected swimwear products. In 2010, we 
dedicated a whole collection to 
support WaterAid. This programme has raised around GBP 1.7 million.
All for Children  Throughout the 
year different products hit our stores, 
supporting the All for Children  
project that H&M and UNICEF funded together with the help of a USD 4.5 
million donation from H&M. A donation 
of 30 percent of the sales price  
of these products involves our customers in supporting children in cotton producing areas in India. In 
2010, this generated an additional 
USD 160,000.
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 22Save the Oceans  In 2010, our 
customers supported WWF’s work  
to protect South East Asia’s Coral 
triangle, home to about three-quarters 
of all coral species such as whale sharks and marine turtles. This generated more than SEK 2.2m  
(USD 310,000) in 2010.PROVIDE  FASHION  FOR  CONSCIOUS  CUSTOMERS
CONSCIOUS  PRODUCTS
H&M’s Fashion  
Against AIDS 
collection
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 23
Our customers do not just want products  
that look good, are long-lasting and safe  
to use – they also want our products to be 
made and sold in ways that do not harm people, animals or the environment. In order to achieve this, we 
continuously refine our processes  
and methods. We have a strict quality 
assurance process in place that starts 
as early as possible in the product life cycle. Our challenge is to adapt our high quality standards to new fashions, products and market regulations and 
for our products to remain affordable. 
Our responsibility to our customers 
includes activities and initiatives  
to ensure customers are safe and satisfied with our products. We  
focus on: 
– Improving product quality 
– Ensuring product safety 
–  Restricting the use of  
harmful chemicals.
We follow the precautionary principle. 
As a minimum, we comply with all laws 
and the strictest regulations of our operating markets. This means that the strictest standards of all the countries in which we operate are  
the ones we apply to all our products, wherever they are sold. Even so, we are continuously looking for ways to make them better and in many cases we apply even stricter standards.
QUALITY  ASSURANCE
For several years, our lab teams  
have performed physical, chemical and safety tests. Today, we work 
increasingly on proactive quality 
assurance rather than routine testing. Overall, more than 500,000 quality tests on our products were made  
in 2010.
We have developed common methods 
for suppliers to take a more active role in quality assurance, with their own 
labs working to our standards. Our aim 
is for all key suppliers to operate their own quality assurance programmes, with good chemical management, early risk assessments and testing  
to identify potential quality risks. Currently, about 80 percent of our  
key suppliers are approved to perform physical tests. Further random tests are carried out by H&M on a monthly 
basis to monitor compliance.
Our local teams are responsible for 
doing follow-up checks to make  sure suppliers are meeting our requirements.
These teams are supported by a 
central function where our common standards and requirements are developed.
We have a procedure in place to 
ensure that products can be rapidly recalled, in case they fall short of  
our standards and reach our stores 
despite our well developed system  
for quality assurance.
If an unsafe product has been 
identified, the quality department  
and production managers decide  
on a global recall. Sales are stopped 
immediately in all markets, and the relevant authorities are informed. 
Information is sent internally to 
colleagues and customers, through channels such as newspaper adverts, the internet and signs in-store. Our quality department then analyses 
what has caused the failure in order to 
prevent it from happening again. The last product recall occurred in 2008.PRODUCT SA fETY  
AND  QUALITYPROVIDE  FASHION  FOR  CONSCIOUS  CUSTOMERS
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 24
CHILDREN ’S SAFETY
Our aim is to offer the safest children’s 
garments in the market. This means that child safety is a vital factor 
throughout all stages of production. 
We educate our staff both at the buying office and in our production offices about children’s safety and potential product risks. 
We carry out a risk assessment to 
ensure that every product intended for children is safe and check for any 
potential hazards, such as small parts, 
sharp edges and drawstrings or cords. 
We follow the laws and standards  
of whichever country of sale has the 
strictest regulations. Based on these 
laws we create specific guidelines and standards for our products and share them internally and with our suppliers. 
We are active in European working 
committees where standards for the EU market are set. At these meetings we share our knowledge of retailing and textile production and discuss 
safety issues with both authorities  
and other companies. COSMETIC  PRODUCTS 
H&M requires that all H&M-branded 
cosmetic products are produced according to Good Manufacturing 
Practices (GMP) for cosmetics.  
GMP sets a defined level of the quality  
and safety of the production and the 
finished products. Since 2007, there is also an ISO standard for cosmetic GMP . 
H&M also does not allow animal 
testing on cosmetic and hygiene products, either during production  
or on the finished products. 
CHEMICAL MANAGEMENT
It can take a lot of chemicals to make clothes. We are working hard to  
limit the use of chemicals in all of  
our products for the sake of the environment and the safety of employees within our supply chain, our own employees and, of course, our customers.
We ban or limit chemical substances 
that are environmentally hazardous  
or harmful to humans in all products 
through the H&M chemical restriction 
list which all suppliers must commit  
to complying with. Our Chemical Restrictions list has been updated 10 times since 1995, most recently in 2009; it now contains 
around 270 restricted substances. 
For more information go to:  
http://www.hm.com/filearea/
corporate/fileobjects/pdf/en/
RM_DOWNLOAD_RESPONSIBILITY_
CHEMICAL_LIST_PDF_ENGLISH_GB_1276265087308.pdf
In 2010, around 30,000 chemical tests 
were performed, mainly in external 
laboratories. We also fine-tuned our chemical test routine, which rewards suppliers for good chemical 
management. This led to better 
implementation rates. 
Our chemicals requirements are 
always based on the highest legal 
standard in any of our sales countries 
and often go further than the law demands. They are based on information from authorities,  
NGOs and scientific reports.REACH – EU LEGISLATION 
REACH is an important piece of legislation requiring that all chemical substances produced or imported in 
the EU are registered. We were an 
early supporter of the legislation, which came into force in 2007. 
Under REACH, companies must notify 
the European Chemicals Agency when 
importing into the EU articles containing more than 0.1 percent of  
a Substance of Very High Concern 
(SVHC) and if the total amount of the 
SVHC imported exceeds one tonne per year. 
We continuously monitor the 
development of the SVHC list. Our 
Chemical Restrictions list includes all SVHCs relevant for our product range, and consequently we do not import any products that require notification. 
As part of the REACH legislation, 
importers are required to respond within 45 days to a request from  
an EU customer to check if a product 
contains an SVHC above the 0.1 
percent threshold. We have guidelines PRODUCT SA fETY AND  QUALITYPROVIDE  FASHION  FOR  CONSCIOUS  CUSTOMERS
450,000 
Pairs of shoes produced  
with water-based adhesives
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 25
and forms in place at all of our 
European stores to help our colleagues handle these types of 
requests. During 2010, we responded 
to six customer requests.
BAN OF TOLUENE
Another major project was to screen and identify the use of toluene in our production processes for accessories. 
Toluene is a solvent that is connected 
to a number of health risks for production workers.
We found that toluene is still widely 
used in many production processes.  
A workshop with all relevant suppliers 
has been organised to educate them about the negative health impacts  
of toluene. 
In close co-operation with suppliers 
and chemical companies, we have started to substitute toluene with less 
harmful substances. By March 2011 we 
will have phased out toluene entirely.FLUOROCARBON -FREE 
OUTERWEAR
Fluorocarbons are substances commonly used for making outerwear water resistant. They are extremely 
persistent and can accumulate in  
the natural environment. High 
concentrations have been found  
in animals near the top of the food chain. For a long time, alternatives to 
fluorocarbons proved elusive, but  
they are now starting to appear. 
During 2010, H&M launched its first fluorocarbon-free water resistant 
outwear, without compromising 
quality or price. It is our ambition to increase the number of fluorocarbon-free garments.
WATER -BASED  PU 
(POLYURETHANE )
In co-operation with the chemical company Bayer, we started to conduct trials to convert traditional solvent-
based polyurethane (PU) material into 
water-based PU.
The first results were very promising, 
but much more work needs to be 
done to ensure quality and scalability, 
and greater investment is necessary. Nevertheless, we hope to get the first products produced with water-based PU in our stores in 2011.
WORKING WITH OTHERS
Working together with regulatory authorities and other brands is  an important part of our efforts  
to contribute to good chemical 
management within the  textile industry.
AFIRM
H&M is a member of the steering committee of AFIRM, which is a multi-company forum that aims to 
advance the global management of 
restricted substances in the apparel and footwear supply chain.
AFIRM projects during 2010 dealt with 
the harmonisation of test methods, 
supplier seminars and development  
of supplier material. 
Read more about AFIRM at:  
www.afirm-group.comPHASING  OUT  SOLVENT -BASED  ADHESIVES  
 
 
Due to their inherent harmful properties, it is our aim to 
phase out the use of solvent-based adhesives in shoes and bags when technically possible. This will reduce risks for 
manufacturing workers and lessen the impact of production 
on the environment. 
In 2009, we started working with chemical manufacturers, 
producers of adhesives and accessory, bag and shoe 
suppliers to identify possibilities to substitute solvent-based 
adhesives with water-based alternatives. Several successful tests and trials took place. For one of our shoe styles, converting to a water-based adhesive reduced the volatile 
organic compounds (VOC) content by 65 percent. 
In 2010, 90 percent of H&M’s bags were produced using 
water-based adhesives. For shoes, we began to implement our production using water-based glues in three factories, 
which together produced more than 450,000 pairs of shoes. 
We aim to encourage more suppliers to switch to water-based alternatives and aim to increase production to  
2 million pairs in 2011.PROVIDE  FASHION  FOR  CONSCIOUS  CUSTOMERS
PRODUCT SA fETY AND  QUALITY
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 26
LEATHER  WORKING  GROUP 
Leather products have a relatively  
high environmental impact, for 
instance due to the use of polluting 
chemicals in the tanning process. In 
2009, we joined the Leather Working Group, which promotes sustainable and appropriate environmental business practices within the 
footwear leather industry. The group 
consists of suppliers, retailers, NGOs and other stakeholder organisations.
Through this Group, we aim to 
promote sustainable and appropriate environmental practices within the footwear leather industry. In 2010,  
we began to co-operate with nine 
tanneries and conducted tests to 
ensure their compliance with our quality requirements. We also plan  
to produce 500,000 pairs of leather shoes in 2011 with leather from 
certified tanneries.
Read more about the Leather  
Working Group at:  
www.leatherworkinggroup.com90%
of our bags were produced 
using water-based in favour  
of solvent-based adhesives
PROVIDE  FASHION  FOR  CONSCIOUS  CUSTOMERS
PRODUCT SA fETY AND  QUALITY
A shoe collection in 
collaboration with Swedish Hasbeens will arrive in H&M stores in April 2011.We plan to produce
500,000
pairs of leather shoes in 2011 with 
leather from certified tanneries
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 27CHOOSE  AND 
REWARD 
RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS2
H&M does not own any of the factories that manufacture  
our products. Instead, production takes place at around  
1,700 factories that are owned or subcontracted by almost 
700 suppliers, mainly in Asia and Europe.
We believe that we have a responsibility towards everyone 
who contributes to our success. Many suppliers are located in countries where human rights violations are a risk. Therefore we commit to choose and reward responsible partners who share our values and work towards continuous improvement of their social and environmental practice. We work directly with our suppliers towards these improvements. Increasingly, we are also working to improve conditions in other parts of our value chain.More than 300,000 
garments workers  
in Bangladesh have been educated on their rights through short 
films since 2008
1,938 audits on  
active factories
IN THIS  SECTION 
Our supply chain ................................................ 28 
Our Code of Conduct  ........................................ 30 
Monitoring and grading ...................................... 33 
Beyond monitoring .............................................. 42 
–  Building management capacities  
and strengthening supplier ownership ............. 44 
–  Raising workers’ awareness of their rights ......50 
–  Responsible purchasing and  
supplier relations  ............................................... 53 
–  Working in partnership –  
influencing public policy .................................. 55 
Average of 3.5 
sustainability 
activities per  
active factory
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 28
OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
Our supply chain involves a number 
of processes and people:
BUYERS 
Our buying office is based in Stockholm, Sweden. Here our designers, pattern makers and buyers, together with merchandisers in our 
production offices, create, plan and 
purchase our collections.
MERCHANDISERS 
Based in one of our 15 production 
offices in Asia and Europe, merchandisers are the link between H&M’s buying office and our suppliers. They identify which suppliers to place 
orders with. 
AUDITORS
Also based in our production  
offices, our audit team, consisting  
of 76 people, monitors suppliers’ compliance with our Code of Conduct through our Full Audit Program (FAP). Today they additionally focus on supporting progress with actions  
that go beyond monitoring. SUPPLIERS All our suppliers sign our Code of Conduct before producing for H&M 
and we monitor their compliance  
with it. We aim for our suppliers to 
take more and more ownership for ensuring good working conditions  
and environmental performance 
themselves. We support them in  
a number of ways, including the 
provision of training and capacity building. We also help them to develop 
and improve management systems 
that will avoid non-compliance on  
an ongoing basis. Our primary focus  
is on our key suppliers. 
FACTORY EMPLOYEES 
Hundreds of thousands of people work in our supplier factories.  
We think that factory employees should know their rights and be able  
to claim them. As a buyer, we have  
the responsibility and opportunity  
to contribute to better workplace conditions and work to raise awareness of rights at work both with 
factory employees and managers.Our approach is to use our influence 
wherever possible to promote good practice and raise awareness, both with our suppliers and their employees as well as others along our value chain. We believe that working together in partnership is the best way we can make a positive difference.CHOOSE  AND  REWARD  RESPONSIBLE  PARTNERS
BELOW  WE HAVE  DEFINED 
SOME  OF THE  TERMS  USED  
IN THIS  REPORT :  
Supplier: an independent company 
with which H&M has a direct business 
relationship. 
Production Unit / Factory: all factories 
where production for H&M takes place. 
This includes our suppliers’ own factories and those subcontracted by our suppliers, such as stitching, washing or printing units. 
Subcontractor: independent factory 
that is contracted by our suppliers to 
perform certain parts of the production process. Subcontracted factories (just  
as other factories), need to first be approved by H&M and are subject  
to our Full Audit Programme. 
Second-tier suppliers:  the suppliers 
of our suppliers, such as fabric or yarn 
manufacturers. In general, H&M has no 
direct relations with these companies. 
Key suppliers: our best suppliers in terms 
of the balance between price, lead-time, 
compliance with our Code of Conduct, quality and sampling. They work closely with H&M as partners and long-term planners.
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 29
OUR  SUPPLY  CHAIN
H&M has been working on improving 
conditions in the supply chain since  
the 90s. Lars-Åke Bergqvist, Tobias 
Fischer, Maritha Lorentzon and 
Veronique Rochet were with us from the very start of this journey. Here they talk about how it all started, how far  
we have come and where it will lead us. 
HOW WOULD  YOU  DESCRIBE  
THE  DEVELOPMENT  OF H&M’ S 
SUPPLY  CHAIN  EFFORTS  
UNTIL  TODAY ?
Maritha:  “It was in the 90s, when 
the occurrence of child labour in Bangladesh came up on the table, that 
the internal discussion about how to 
work with our supply chain became more intense. We started the implementation process of our first Code of Conduct. It was at this time 
that we realised the extent and 
complexity of our supply chain.  
Since then, it has been a process and we have gradually been learning along 
the way that there are subtle problems 
that we need to address to come to terms with the big issues. We know more today than we did back then  
and make better informed decisions. The internal communication has also improved and we are working closer 
together with our suppliers, trying to 
support them as much as we can in their efforts to improve.” 
WHAT  IS DRIVING  THE 
PROGRESS  AMONG  THE 
SUPPLIERS ?
Lars-Åke:  “We started with an 
approach you could call policing.  
We pushed suppliers to comply with 
our requirements and sometimes  
even terminated business relations if 
not. We had to learn our lessons; for example, that real lasting progress  
is only made when our suppliers 
understand their non-compliance 
issues. Today our work is much more about co-operation. We help our suppliers to improve through a full 
package of activities – not just 
auditing. We believe that encouraging our suppliers in an open and clear dialogue, where H&M speaks with  
one voice throughout our different 
departments, are success factors  
to make our supply chain more 
sustainable. IS IT POSSIBLE  TO SPEED 
UP THE  PROGRESS ?
Tobias: “There must be a natural 
growth. It’s a matter of trust between us and the suppliers as well as 
between our suppliers’ management 
and their workers. We believe in meaningful industrial relations and  
we see an increasing awareness among the workforce of their rights. 
The health and safety situation among 
the workers has improved a lot but there is still a long way to go when it comes to issues regarding for example 
worker’s rights. The challenge today is 
to achieve a broad impact from what we do in terms of capacity building instead of being involved in projects with a limited reach.”
HOW DO YOU  SEE  YOUR  ROLES 
AND  H&M’ S EFFORTS  WITHIN 
THE  NExT FIVE  TO TEN  YEARS ?
Veronique:  “We believe our suppliers 
will take a greater ownership of the process. They will do more and they 
will to a higher degree understand 
why they are doing what they are doing. In the future, our suppliers will strengthen their dialogue with their stakeholders and our role will  
be to facilitate this dialogue.  
We also see a stronger focus on environmental issues; how we can 
gain from being more efficient and 
saving energy. We will try to work with those issues further back in the value chain and work towards getting the 
workers more involved in the process.”CHOOSE  AND  REWARD  RESPONSIBLE  PARTNERS
Maritha Lorentzon, Tobias Fischer, Veronique Rochet and 
Lars-Åke Bergqvist have been working on improving conditions in our supply chain since the 90s.
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 30
OUR CODE  Of CONDUCT
Drawn up in 1997 , our Code of Conduct  
builds the basis of our efforts to make our 
supply chain more sustainable. It outlines  
the requirements we place on all of our suppliers and their subcontractors  
for improving working conditions and environmental practices in their operations. factories must work towards full  
compliance with the Code and we  
conduct regular audits to assess their  
level of compliance through our full  
Audit Programme.A commitment to our Code is 
mandatory to enter into a business relationship with H&M. H&M’s Code of 
Conduct is based on the International 
Labour Organization’s (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. It also stipulates 
that local legislation must be 
observed. The latest revision  
to the Code was in 2009.Our Code of Conduct has eight sections, covering:  
– Legal requirements 
– A ban on child labour 
– Health and safety 
– Workers’ rights 
– Housing conditions 
– Environment 
– Systems approach 
– Monitoring and enforcement.
To help our suppliers and their 
subcontractors understand our  
Code of Conduct and our 
expectations, we provide an implementation guide for suppliers. This guidance is available in English, 
Chinese, Turkish and Romanian.
Our Code of Conduct is available in more 
than 20 languages at:  
http://www.hm.com/gb/
corporateresponsibility/
informationmaterial__downloadsarchive.nhtmlCHOOSE  AND  REWARD  RESPONSIBLE  PARTNERS
In order to become a supplier, our Code of Conduct must be signed  
and minimum requirements must  
be fulfilled. 
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 31
OUR CODE  Of CONDUCT
ExPANDING THE  
SCOPE OF OUR CODE
As part of our effort to take a life  
cycle view of our products, we have 
expanded the reach of our Code to 
cover all H&M business partners 
including manufacturers of non-commercial products. These are goods that are not sold in our stores and range from interior items, such  
as mannequins, stands and hangers,  
to mail order and other materials.
Initial trial audits on these type of 
suppliers have shown that the supply 
chain for such goods is very different from our products’ supply chain, which our existing audit programme is tailored to. As a result, we have started 
developing methods for auditing 
suppliers of non-commercial goods.INTEGRATING  OTHER  BRANDS 
WITHIN  THE  H&M GROUP
The H&M Group today consists of  
a number of brands. In 2008, H&M acquired 60 percent of FaBric 
Scandinavien AB, which includes the 
brands Monki, Weekday and Cheap Monday. In 2010, we acquired the remaining shares to take full ownership of FaBric Scandinavien.
Production for Weekday and Monki 
takes place at H&M suppliers and is covered by our Full Audit Programme. 
Currently, H&M suppliers do not make 
Cheap Monday products and to prepare these suppliers for the requirements of our Full Audit Programme we started to introduce 
some basic requirements for existing 
Cheap Monday suppliers in late 2009 and through 2010. Production for Cheap Monday is covered by FaBric Scandinavien’s affiliation with the  
Fair Wear Foundation (FWF)  
www.fairwear.org . 
COS was launched in 2007 and  
all production is covered by H&M 
suppliers and our Code of Conduct.CHOOSE  AND  REWARD  RESPONSIBLE  PARTNERS
Production for our brands Monki and Weekday is 
now fully covered by H&M’s Full Audit Programme. 
  1999 - 2000
		Audits	going		
deeper	–	focus		
on	documentation,	
including	wage	and	
working	hour	records,	
age	certificates	and	
employment	contracts.3
  2010
		Going	beyond		auditing	with	focus	on		capacity-building	and	supplier	ownership,		
worker	empowerment,	
responsible	purchasing	practices	and	public	policy;	starting	extended	monitoring	scope	to		second	tier	stages.6
HOW OUR 
SUPPLY  CHAIN 
SUSTAINABILITY 
PROGRAMME EVOLVED
In the 1990s we started work to 
improve conditions in our supply chain. Since then we have 
learned a great deal. See how  
our programme has developed.
  1997
		Launch	of	our	first	
Code	of	Conduct.1
  1998 - 1999
		Mapping	the	extent		
of	our	supply	chain.	
First	audits	focused	
on	visual	inspections.2
5
  2001 - 2004
		Focus	on	dialogue	–	
worker	interviews	
become	part	of	our	
audits	–	first	training		
programmes	for	
suppliers	and	their	
employees	developed	–	
environmental		
requirements	become	
part	of	audits	and		
we	publish	our	first	
CSR-reports.4
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 32  2005 - 2009
		We	go	further	beyond	monitoring,	including	extensive	capacity	building	for	both	management	and	employees	–	launch	our	 Full	Audit	Programme	(FAP)	and	become	accredited	members		 of	the	FLA.
 
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 33
MONITORING 
AND  GRADING
We conducted a total of 1,938 audits 
on active factories in 2010. As part of  
a revised approach, we have started  
to place a strong focus on analysing the existence and effectiveness of  
our suppliers’ management systems instead of remedying instances of non-compliance when they arise.  
In this way we feel that we can help suppliers even more to understand and prevent workplace and environmental issues more effectively 
day-to-day, rather than just responding 
to the findings of our (or other  
buyers’) audits.
INCREASED FOCUS ON 
MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
The introduction of our Management 
System Scorecard in 2009 was a  
key development in this regard.  
Some workers’ rights issues, such as freedom of association, forced labour and discrimination can be hard to identify in standard audits, so we  
have developed our approach further 
in response to this. 
Rather than only looking for instances 
of these issues, we now assess whether factories have management systems in place that are aimed at 
preventing violations, and how 
effective these systems are.
The management system  
evaluation covers: 
– Policy 
– Organisation 
– Routines and procedure 
–  Feedback and control  
mechanisms.
Each area receives a score depending 
on how well it is functioning. This provides the management with a  
gap analysis that helps them develop internal systems to prevent non-compliance in the future. During  
2010, a working group within our CSR function developed the management 
system scorecard further by 
calibrating the assessment approach to take into account differences in our production markets. The following graph on page 36 shows that in 2010, 
we analysed a total of 2,514 management systems in the areas of: –  Grievance systems  
and communications– Health and safety
–  Recruitment, introduction  
and dismissal procedures
– Rules and regulations
– Environment health & safety
– Workers’ rights
– Subcontracting.
During 2011, we will work towards integrating the results of these analyses into our newly developed 
index-based supplier grading  
system – ICoC. See page 36 for 
more information.The full Audit Programme ( fAP) is the 
main tool we use to monitor our suppliers’ 
compliance with our Code of Conduct. Additionally, we focus on helping our suppliers to develop management systems that can prevent non-compliance.CHOOSE  AND  REWARD  RESPONSIBLE  PARTNERS
2,514
analyses of supplier 
management systems in 2010
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 34
MONITORING  AND  GRADING
HEAD AUDITS
In general terms, the audit process 
involves an inspection of the factory site, management as well as worker 
interviews and an examination of a 
variety of company files and records, such as timesheets, wage records and employment contracts, to determine compliance with the questions in the 
Full Audit Programme questionnaire. 
The questionnaire consists of more than 90 main questions and a number of verification points and is the main 
tool used during our audits.
Head audits, which are the main audit 
within an audit cycle of a factory, can take up to six person-days. Once 
complete the results are discussed 
with the factory management and the supplier and factory being audited are required to draft a correction plan that outlines the timing and responsibilities 
for correcting areas of non-
compliance. A correction plan can include both short- and long-term remediation activities. H&M’s auditors will then check on the implementation 
of the measures outlined with follow-
up audits.FOLLOW-UP AUDITS 
Follow-up audits are part of the improvement process and focus on the progress against the correction 
plan developed after the initial head 
audit. A full audit cycle regularly consists of one head audit and three follow-up audits over a period of 18-24 months. An important part of this 
approach is to help the supplier 
understand the value of making improvements and how this benefits their business and their long-term 
relationship with H&M. This approach 
often results in greater trust and a better business relationship between suppliers and H&M.MONITORING  RESULTS
In total, we conducted 1,938 audits on active factories in 2010. Figures provided in previous sustainability 
reports also included audits on 
factories seeking approval to  
become H&M suppliers that were  
not yet approved or active. The comparable equivalent figure for  
2010 is 2,561 audits.
On average, each active factory was 
audited 1.14 times during 2010. We 
prioritise countries with higher risks  
of violations. This means there is a 
broad deviation with this indicator  
for different countries, from a high of  
1.57 audits per factory in Bangladesh, 
to 0.15 in Italy.
68 percent of all our head audits were 
unannounced and we work to further increase this percentage.CHOOSE  AND  REWARD  RESPONSIBLE  PARTNERS
HEAD  AUDITS
68% unannounced 
32% announced
NUMBER  OF AUDITS  2007 – 2010
YEAR
2007
2008
2009
2010
0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000
2010 figures include audits only on those factories with active production. 
figures for 2007-2009 include audits on possible new factories, even if they 
were not approved for H&M production. 
Head audit  Follow up audit
719 
37%1219 
63%
905 
41%1301 
59%
812 
32%1697 
68%
948 
48%1035 
52%
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 35
MONITORING  AND  GRADINGCHOOSE  AND  REWARD  RESPONSIBLE  PARTNERS
COMPLIANCE  PROGRESS  FROM  HEAD  AUDIT  TO HEAD  AUDIT  PER  AREA  OF REQUIREMENTS
Young Workers 
/Child LabourWorkers Basic 
RightsWorkers  
RightsHealth & 
SafetyHousing 
ConditionsEnviroment Total1
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
0COMPLIANCE 
LEVEL
AREA  OF 
REQUIREMENTPROGRESS  FROM  HEAD 
AUDIT  TO HEAD  AUDIT
By the end of 2010, a total of 175 
factories had completed their third  
full audit cycle. The data opposite 
shows the progress these factories 
have made during this process. Improvements in our audit methods over time and other factors have an effect on the direct comparability of 
the results although we aim to provide 
the greatest comparability possible.
The data shows a 4 percent points 
improvement in the total compliance 
level, from 77 percent in 2009 to 81 percent in 2010. The areas with strongest improvement are workers’ basic rights and environmental 
requirements. We see a slight 
decrease of 1 percent in regard to compliance with health and safety requirements. Data and commentary on this indicator, including a 
breakdown by region, as well  
as further 2010 audit results are 
contained in the performance appendix.
71%77%84%92%
54%85%
77%87%
80%82%84%94%
58%81%
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 36
INTRODUCING AN INDE x-BASED 
GRADING SYSTEM – IC OC
During 2009 and 2010, we have 
developed and tested a new and more sophisticated way of measuring our 
suppliers’ level of compliance with our 
Code of Conduct. We launched the new system in December 2010 and from 2011 onwards it will replace our previous system, which graded 
suppliers and potential suppliers into 
five broad categories. Details on our outgoing grading system can be found in our 2009 Sustainability Report.
WHAT  IS THE  ICOC?
ICoC (Index Code of Conduct) is  
a quantitative index that scores suppliers on every requirement in our 
Code of Conduct. The new system 
defines the compliance level of a factory as a percentage based on  
the results of our audits. The system provides a clearer, more accurate and 
ultimately comparable grading system.
It is an improvement over our five-level 
grading system where the possibility 
for significant differences between 
suppliers within the same grading level existed; and where a factory in a lower grading level could in fact have met 
the requirements of a higher level in 
some, but not all requirements.
The ICoC system also includes our 
increased focus on management 
systems.
MINIMUM  REQUIREMENTS
There are still minimum requirements 
that supplier factories must meet before entering into a business 
relationship with H&M. To assess 
compliance with these requirements, our auditors visit each potential new supplier factory prior to a possible order placement and decide on 
whether or not the factory can be 
approved. These requirements include:– Absence of forced labour
– A ban on child labour
–  Payment of at least the relevant minimum wages
– Fundamental safety provisions
–  Compliance with the H&M  
chemical restrictions
–  Waste water treatment (for factories with wet processes).These requirements are not weighted and H&M does not accept any 
breaches.
IMPROVED  COMMUNICATION
Our trials have shown that the index 
also makes communication with our suppliers easier and creates additional 
motivation to score up. It helps our 
suppliers to identify weak areas in their operations and develop their management systems to address these weaknesses. We also expect  
the new system to give us a better picture of the effectiveness of non-compliance remediation and capacity building activities.
IMPROVED  INTEGRATION  
WITH  PURCHASING  SYSTEMS
Supplier gradings have been integrated within our purchasing systems for a number of years and define which 
suppliers our buyers can or cannot 
source from. The new system will allow further integration of sustainability aspects into our purchasing decision-making and will help us to choose and 
reward the suppliers with the best 
sustainability performance.MONITORING  AND  GRADINGCHOOSE  AND  REWARD  RESPONSIBLE  PARTNERS
MANAGEMENT  SYSTEM  ANALYSES  2010 
FOCUS  AREA
Subcontracting 
Workers’ rights 
EHS 
Rules & regulations 
Recruitment, 
introduction dismissal
Health & safety 
Grievance/
communication
100 200 0 NUMBER  OF 
ANALYSES300 400 500 700 600
26149
332
296
511
621
4441,938
audits on active  
factories in 2010
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 37
In order to support this further 
integration, a working group consisting of different roles from all of our 
production regions was set up in  
2010 together with a number of  
key suppliers. Read more about 
responsible purchasing practices  
on page 53. 
INITIAL  ICOC RESULTS
Taking a sneak peak at our ICoC results, we see a pattern of general improvement:
–  New factories completing their first 
audit in 2010 have an average ICoC result of 71%
–  Factories that were new to H&M  
in 2008/2009 and completed their second head audit in 2010 scored an average ICoC result of 75 percent
–  Long-term supplier factories that 
completed their third head audit in 
2010 gave an average ICoC score  
of 79 percent.
Our first full year of using ICoC is 2011 
and we will report full audit results in 
next year’s Sustainability Report.JOINT ASSESSMENTS
In 2010, we tested a Joint Assessment Programme (JAP) together with a number of suppliers in China. Joint 
assessments are based on the same 
methodology and material as our  
Full Audit Programme, but H&M  
and factory staff conduct the audit together. Joint assessments can  
help to increase our suppliers’ understanding of their sustainability performance and opportunities  
for improvements. 
LIMITED AUDITS 
For some years we have been  
working on finding ways to extend our influence on stages further back our 
value chain, such as fabric production. 
In addition to voluntary programmes that encourage better practices, we have developed our Limited Audit Programme. Limited audits focus on 
selected requirements and aim to 
tackle the most urgent challenges  
that are specific to the production processes conducted in a factory.Using this approach, we have now started auditing selected fabric mills  
in China and Bangladesh, as well as weaving centres in India.
FABRIC  MILLS
In 2009, we started identifying fabric mills in China and Bangladesh that are considered key to our suppliers and 
production. During 2010, we scaled up 
the identification to include more mills and we now have 24 mills in China and nine in Bangladesh that take part in our Mill Development Programme.  
All mills that are considered key to  
our operations are now required to sign our Code of Conduct prior to fabric booking and work towards 
compliance with our Code of Conduct 
using our Limited Audit Programme. Read more about our Mill Development Program on page 49.MONITORING  AND  GRADINGCHOOSE  AND  REWARD  RESPONSIBLE  PARTNERS
PROGRESS ON ICOC SCORES
ICoC  
SCORE
 
 
80
78
76
74
72
70
68
66 1st head audit 
in 20102nd head audit 
in 20103rd head audit 
in 2010
71.274.778.9
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 38
In many cases female home  
workers would be unable to take up 
employment due to household and 
parental responsibilities. For these 
reasons H&M has decided to accept home work in some situations, guided by a clear policy that defines which tasks and under what circumstances 
home work can or cannot be used.
Any operation that is part of the 
industrial process and can be 
performed in a factory should be 
performed there. Home working  
is only accepted when special workmanship is required and can  
be considered as handicraft, such  
as beading or embroidery.
We require our suppliers to inform us 
when home working is being used. Home working often takes place in 
villages situated some distance from 
our suppliers’ factories and this can make it harder to monitor whether worker rights are being upheld. In 2010, however, we conducted 23 
audits on home working locations  
in order to ensure that our policy is 
lived up to.MONITORING  AND  GRADINGCHOOSE  AND  REWARD  RESPONSIBLE  PARTNERS
INDEPENDENT MONITORING 
AND VERIFICATION
H&M is a member of the Fair Labor 
Association (FLA) a non-profit organisation dedicated to improving 
working conditions. The FLA brings 
together multiple stakeholders from buyers, suppliers, NGOs and others  
to create lasting solutions aimed at protecting the rights of workers and 
improving working conditions. H&M 
has been a member of the FLA since 2006 and we became accredited members in 2008, following a two-
year assessment process by the FLA. 
Since 2006, the FLA has conducted 
independent audits of our suppliers in China and, since 2009, also in Turkey. 
The results of these audits are 
published in an independent report  
at www.fairlabor.org. In 2010, the FLA conducted 13 verification audits at supplier factories (10 in Turkey and 
three in China).
During 2010, H&M got involved with  
an FLA training programme in China 
for social dialogue. Read more about 
this workers’ participation project in 
the Beyond Monitoring section (pg. 52). H&M Group’s brand, Cheap Monday,  
is a member of the Fair Wear Foundation (www.fairwear.org)  
and suppliers are monitored independently by the Foundation.
All export-oriented garment 
production in Cambodia, including 
production by our Cambodian 
suppliers, is subject to independent monitoring by Better Factories Cambodia (www.betterfactories.org). WEAVING  CENTRES
In 2009, we started looking at working conditions at weaving centres in India that take part in the production of 
woven scarves. These centres supply 
our first-tier suppliers with woven fabrics for scarves and are second-tier suppliers. Such weaving centres have rarely been subjected to the influence 
of brands and their requirements.
Because the production process  
is less complex compared to other 
products, we have been able to 
identify and gain access to this production stage, and weaving  
centres are now integrated into  
our Limited Audit Programme.
HOME WORKING
In some countries our suppliers  
are permitted to use home work  
for specific parts of the production 
process. There are several concerns 
around home working, but it can  
be beneficial in some production countries because it is often carried out by women and can be an important 
contributor to a family’s income.
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 39
MONITORING  AND  GRADINGCHOOSE  AND  REWARD  RESPONSIBLE  PARTNERS
SUSTAINABILITY  ACTIVITIES  PER  FACTORY
ACTIVITIES ACTIVITIES 
PER 
FACTORY  
RATIO
South Asia Far East EMEA Global3000 6.0
5.0
4.0
3.0
2.0
1.0
0.02500
2000
1500
1000
500
0
5.9
Audits  Other activities        Managment systems analysis   
Factory  Activity per factory ratio
2.85.9
1.43.5FACTORY PRESENCE
In addition to our Full Audit 
Programme, our presence in our suppliers’ factories goes far beyond 
just auditing. Activities such as 
capacity building, workshops and training with our suppliers, as well  
as management systems analysis are some of the additional sustainability 
activities that accompany our  
audit programme.
On an average, 3.5 sustainability 
activities were carried out for each 
active factory in 2010. Our suppliers are also in constant contact with other functions from our production offices, such as our merchandising and quality 
departments. This means that we 
have a regular presence at supplier factories and thereby provide strong support for the development of our suppliers throughout our relationship.3.5
sustainability activities  
per active factory on  
average in 2010
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 40
WHY DO WE HAVE  OUR  OWN  AUDITORS ?  
 
 
 Comparability – audit results are 
produced by the same evaluation 
method that is calibrated within our 
production countries, so we get comparable data and results.
Values –  we transfer our company 
values to suppliers when representing 
H&M during the audit and the remediation process.
Knowledge – we transfer our 
knowledge and experience to the 
suppliers and factories, improving  
their capability to identify and address their own weaknesses and in turn, 
developing our own knowledge  
within H&M.
Understanding – we get to 
understand the root cause of  
non-compliance and can work on 
remediation plans in conjunction  
with suppliers.We are sometimes asked why we  
do not rely completely on external 
monitoring and have a 76-strong 
team working on supplier monitoring and supporting their progress.  
The answer is very clear to us.
By doing audits ourselves we 
immediately get a comprehensive picture of how well our suppliers comply with our social and environmental requirements.  
This allows us to make the right decisions from a position of knowledge – both in order to support our suppliers in achieving 
long-term improvements and in 
taking the right purchasing decisions. The knowledge we gain from this close view of our suppliers is needed to help bring a broader 
perspective into our decision-
making. Other advantages of having our own audit team include:To maintain the quality of our audits, auditors receive a thorough 12-week 
introduction training and ongoing 
training in order to develop their  
skills further. We think that additional independent monitoring and verification can deliver valuable input 
to help develop our own methods  
and routines and at the same time 
strengthen the credibility of our  
audit programme.MONITORING  AND  GRADINGCHOOSE  AND  REWARD  RESPONSIBLE  PARTNERS
41
 CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 41We are serious about supporting 
our suppliers in improving their social and environmental 
performance. Our work consists 
of much more than just auditing. Here are the different activities our CSR team has undertaken at  
a randomly-selected supplier 
factory during one audit cycle, 
which usually takes 18–24 months.HOW  WE SUPPORT 
OUR  SUPPLIERS 
IN MAkING 
IMPROVEMENTS
  AUDIT
		A	head	audit	identifies	 non-compliances	
with	EHS**	requirements	and	workers’	
basic	 rights.	Correction	
plan	to	be	developed.1
  AUDIT
		A	follow-up	audit	evaluates	progress	against	the	correction	plan.2
  TRAINING
		H&M	provides	training	
on	EHS	requirements.3
  MS* ANAL YSIS
		The	factories’		management		systems	for	EHS	are	evaluated	against	our		 Management	System	Scorecard.4
   AUDIT
		Further	progress	
is	evaluated	
through	
a	second	follow-up	
audit.	Non-compliances	
on	EHS	requirements	remediated.5
  TRAINING
		H&M	provides	training	
related	to	workers’	
basic	rights.6
   MS* ANAL YSIS
		H&M	analyse	related	
management	 systems.	
Further	support	by	
external	consultants	
facilitated.7
  WORKSHOP
		Factory	
management	joins	workshop	
on	workers’	
basic	rights	held	by	H&M.8
  AUDIT
		A	third	follow-up	 audit	
shows	substantial	
progress	 on	the		
identified	 issues.9
  AUDIT
		A	new	audit	cycle	
supported	by	capacity-
building	begins.10
* Management System
** Enviromental Health and Safety
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 42
Monitoring our suppliers is an important 
part of our work and has been for more  
than 10 years. We have seen many supplier improvements resulting from these efforts and we have now started auditing stages  
of our products’ life cycle further back  
our value chain. But we believe that  
bringing about sustainable change  
for complex issues, such as wages or freedom of association, requires more  
than just monitoring. Our aim is to shift from regulating and 
closely monitoring our suppliers, to creating sustainable progress with the 
active participation of our suppliers’ 
factories and their workers.
To tackle issues on an industry –  
or country-level, we also believe in 
engaging with industry bodies and 
governments, as well as trade unions, NGOs and other brands. This is a vital part of our approach and our daily 
work. Therefore, we focus on four 
major areas: –  Building management capacity and strengthening supplier ownership
–  Raising workers’ awareness  
of their rights
–  Responsible purchasing practices
– Public policy.BEYOND  MONITORING CHOOSE  AND  REWARD  RESPONSIBLE  PARTNERS
Notes: Above is the number of recorded capacity-building 
activities where we invest in our suppliers’ development during the year. The table includes both smaller and larger activities and is the first attempt by H&M to illustrate the magnitude of our capacity-building programme. We have not included activities where we invite suppliers to participate in external activities or where we internally develop our auditors. NUMBER  OF RECORDED  CAPACITY  BUILDING  
ACTIVITIES  1 DEC 2009 – 30 N OVEMBER  2010
 
 Education/    Grand
Region  workshop  Meeting  Screening  total
Total South Asia  5 59 40 104
Total Far East  371 134 730 1235
Total EMEA and other  22 63 33 118
Grand Total  398  256  803  1457
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 43
BEYOND  MONITORING
We aim for suppliers to better understand their issues and opportunities.CHOOSE  AND  REWARD  RESPONSIBLE  PARTNERS
BSR B EYOND  MONITORING  WORKING  GROUP  
 
 
At the start of 2010, H&M joined the 
Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) Beyond Monitoring working 
group. The group consists of a 
number of international companies with the common goal of shifting  
from just policing their supply  
chain to bringing about sustainable 
change to the complex challenges 
they face.Accordingly, the working group is built on four pillars that are well aligned with our own strategy:
–  Supplier ownership of labour  
and environmental conditions 
–  Internal alignment between 
commercial and sustainability objectives of buyers
–  Empowering workers to be informed and participatory constituents
–  Public policy frameworks that 
foster public-private dialogue, 
partnerships, and local solutions.
Read more about this initiative  
and outcomes at: www.bsr.org/
consulting/working-groups/beyond-monitoring
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 44
Lasting improvements require our suppliers 
to understand better their sustainability issues and to see the benefits of good social and environmental performance. In the long run, we want our suppliers to take charge  
of their own sustainability. We call this approach supplier ownership.10 STEPS  FOR  STRENGTHENING  SUPPLIER  OWNERSHIP Besides auditing their progress, today, 
we focus on supporting our suppliers by building management knowledge 
and capacities and helping them to 
assess their own performance so that they can detect opportunities to improve their own business. During 2010 we performed a total of 1457 
capacity building activities (for more 
details see graph on page 42).1  Get to know the reality and issues in each factory through audits 
2  Have an open dialogue with suppliers and define clear achievable targets for 
improvements and remediation 
of non-compliance
3  Have a frequent presence in the factories, not only through audits, and create a close and 
long-term co-operation with 
the supplier
4  Train audit teams to prepare for moving from a policing agent to a catalysing partners
5  Listen to stakeholders, including our suppliers themselves, their employees, 
trade unions, NGOs, 
government, industry  
bodies and other brands;  
and share knowledge 6  Function as a facilitator and help to build suppliers’ management capacity
7  Know where suppliers can find additional help in strengthening their capacities 
and link them up with, for 
example, NGOs, development agencies, consultants or government bodies
8  Show the benefits of a sustainable mindset and performance, and reward 
suppliers for progress
9  Educate workers on 
their rights
10  Prepare suppliers for joint assessments and where possible self-assessments, 
resulting in self-reporting.CHOOSE  AND  REWARD  RESPONSIBLE  PARTNERS
BEYOND  MONITORING  –  
BUILDING  MANAGEMENT  
CAPACITIES  AND  STRENGTHENING 
SUPPLIER  OWNERSHIP
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 45
CASE STUDY: SUPPORTING IMPROVEMENTS AT ACCESSORY  
AND SHOE SUPPLIERS IN CHINA 
 
 We have been working with accessory and shoe 
suppliers in China since 2008 to address higher levels of non-compliance with our Code of 
Conduct by this supplier group. A lower 
frequency of audits by retail brands in general and a greater use of chemicals in this sector has led  
to more non-compliance, particularly related to health and safety and environmental 
requirements. 
In 2009, we launched a modular training approach 
with the aim of improving compliance in a 
step-by-step manner rather than trying to 
address all shortcomings at once. The first module focused on environmental health and safety issues; and module two on wages, compensation, overtime and recruitment 
procedures.
In 2009, 36 factories participated in the training 
and this has risen to 46 factories in 2010, representing about 50 percent of H&M’s 
accessory production. When comparing 2009 
and 2010 audits, non-compliance with environmental and health and safety requirements have decreased by 63 percent at participating factories and 77 percent now have 
sufficient management systems for health and 
safety issues, compared to 46 percent in 2009. 
We have also seen improved communication 
 and grievance systems for workers and some 
factories have implemented bonus systems to 
boost employee motivation. Wage record data  
is now automatically reported to H&M on a regular basis.
We will continue this training programme in  
2011 and maintain the focus on compensation 
structures in order to further support the positive progress made in this area.CHOOSE  AND  REWARD  RESPONSIBLE  PARTNERS
Average 
number of instances of non-compliance0
02
204
406
608
8010
100Average 
MS scorePROGRESS  ON EHS COMPLIANCE 
AND  MANAGEMENT  SYSTEM 
(MS) SCORE  IN PARTICIPATING 
FACTORIES
8
3
46
77
2008  2010
BEYOND  MONITORING  –  
BUILDING  MANAGEMENT  
CAPACITIES  AND  STRENGTHENING 
SUPPLIER  OWNERSHIP
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 46
CHOOSE  AND  REWARD  RESPONSIBLE  PARTNERS
BEYOND  MONITORING  –  
BUILDING  MANAGEMENT  
CAPACITIES  AND  STRENGTHENING 
SUPPLIER  OWNERSHIP
JOINT ASSESSMENTS
In order to increase our suppliers’ 
understanding of their sustainability issues and opportunities, we tested a 
Joint Assessment Programme (JAP) in 
China in 2010. Joint assessments are based on the same methodology and material as our Full Audit Programme, but H&M and factory staff conduct 
the audit together and use audit tools 
jointly and transparently. This way, both can mutually agree on: – Current weak areas 
– Desired state / targets 
– Actions to reach targets.
In 2010, we conducted joint assessments at nine underwear 
factories. The focus of these initial 
joint assessments has been on environmental health and safety issues and related management systems. The following chart indicates 
the improvements in management 
systems quality.
In 2011, we plan to extend joint 
assessments to a wider range of 
factories and include more aspects  
of our Code of Conduct requirements.PROGRESS  IN MANAGEMENT  SYSTEM  SCORES  AFTER  JOINT  
ASSESSMENT  PROGRAMME
May 2010  August 2010  November 2010
0%10%30%50%
20%40%60%70%80%
Occupational health  
and safety systemEnvironmental health  
and safety system71.2
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 47
CHOOSE  AND  REWARD  RESPONSIBLE  PARTNERS
BEYOND  MONITORING  –  
BUILDING  MANAGEMENT  
CAPACITIES  AND  STRENGTHENING 
SUPPLIER  OWNERSHIP
CASE  STUDY :  
TOWARDS CHANGING WAGE 
STRUCTURES IN CHINA
In China our main focus in recent  
years has been on ensuring that 
workers receive the correct wages 
and that wage systems become more 
transparent. We have learned that the wage system in China is complex and at times incomplete, which has led to  
a lack of transparency for workers, our 
auditors and sometimes for factory 
management themselves. 
In general, the wage systems have 
been a mix of piece-rate wages, 
monthly attendance and yearly loyalty bonuses, and deductions for absence and production errors. This complex structure makes it difficult to verify  
the actual salary of an individual worker. For workers it is often hard to compare wages from one employer  
to another and even to judge if they  
are being paid correctly for their 
working hours.
SUPPORTING  SUPPLIERS
During the last two years we have 
supported suppliers and their factories in making progress  
through the following measures:  
—  Labour rights seminars to fill the 
knowledge gap with suppliers and 
factories on what the law says and 
how it should be implemented.  
A total of 40 suppliers, with  
80 factories participated.
—  External Support Programme (ESP) 
which, among other issues, focuses 
on securing better HR systems in factories, including proper salary  
and working hours systems. In 2010  
46 factories were enrolled (2009: 36).
—  Audits help to focus the attention  
of factory management on internal 
management systems, rules and regulations, and wage and payment 
systems.
—  Follow-up audits, which ensure that 
wage systems are in place and the data coming from factory wage systems is correct, as well as 
supporting factory management  
to analyse wage and overtime data
MONTHLY  REPORTING
We believe transparency is the  
first step to driving change and to 
encouraging transparency among suppliers. Our CSR team in China  
has required about 50 percent of our Chinese supplier factories, including all our key suppliers, to submit wage and overtime records monthly for all workers. We have also focused on 
ensuring that all factories issue 
relevant labour contracts and payslips to all workers, and that they pay workers’ wages on time. 
SETTING  TARGETS
We have set firm individual targets  
for the period 2009-2011 that outline what the factories need to achieve  
to establish sufficient wage systems and pay correct and transparent wages. The targets, and the consequences of losing business  
with H&M if not reaching them within 
the timeframe, have been clearly 
communicated to our suppliers. 
ENCOURAGING  RESULTS
The results have been encouraging  
so far and we receive correct wage and overtime data from our suppliers. 
H&M auditors verify the information 
when making factory visits. In most cases honesty and transparency, linked with support from H&M to improve wage structures in factories, has led to positive results. With the 
few cases where suppliers have  
not been transparent, H&M has 
temporarily stopped the business relationship with the supplier until compliance has been achieved.
 
 Our data shows that workers are  
now essentially getting the correct 
minimum wage per hour worked.  
We can also see that more and  
more workers are getting correct 
compensation for overtime work.  
The payment systems become more 
transparent and understandable  
for workers, factory management  
and for H&M auditors. 
NExT STEPS
In 2011, we plan to invite other brands 
into a discussion on a joint approach to wages in the supply chain in China.
We are also in discussions with  
the FLA about participating in their 
Fair Wage Network in our key purchasing markets. 
See: www.fair-wage.com
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 48
CHOOSE  AND  REWARD  RESPONSIBLE  PARTNERS
BEYOND  MONITORING  –  
BUILDING  MANAGEMENT  
CAPACITIES  AND  STRENGTHENING 
SUPPLIER  OWNERSHIP
COMMENTARY  ON WAGES  BY AURET  VAN  HEERDEN ,  
PRESIDENT  AND  CEO OF FLA: 
 
 “The issue of wages has been a real 
challenge for the CSR movement, 
but that is finally starting to change. 
Buyers, suppliers, trade unions  
and NGOs are all looking at new ways of getting to grips with the fact that real wages globally have 
not kept pace with economic 
growth. In order to rectify this untenable situation, leading  
buyers, like H&M, have set about systematically collecting wage 
data, analysing the contexts  
and the causes of low wages,  
and then developing strategies  
for correcting the imbalances.
One of the key realisations in this 
process has been that we need  
to look beyond the numbers.  
The nominal wage taken home  
by the worker is important but  
it is only part - some would say a small part - of the wage picture. Even when wages meet or exceed the legal minimum wage there are 
other questions to ask. Is there  
wage inequality in the enterprise? 
Do wages reflect the workers’ contribution to productivity and quality? Are they set through a 
process of dialogue? Only by  
looking at the full wage picture can 
we understand the precise areas where remedies are required.
H&M has done a tremendous 
amount of work to collect the necessary data and we are very happy to be working with them  
to analyse the wage situation in  
their global supply chain, with  
a view to developing strategies  
for improvement. This should result in more equity and social dialogue 
around wages, and ultimately,  
higher wages for workers.”MILL DEVELOPMENT 
PROGRAMME
In general, we do not have direct 
business relationships with second-tier suppliers such as fabric mills.  
Our influence is, therefore, less and the possibility to set requirements is limited. Fabric production can require intensive use of chemicals and faces a number of environmental and health 
and safety concerns. For some years 
we have therefore focused our work on supporting fabric mills in becoming more sustainable through voluntary 
programmes such as our Cleaner 
Production Programme.
Our Mill Development Programme, 
which we started working on in 2008, 
targets fabric suppliers in China and 
Bangladesh that are key to our production and which we have the closest indirect business relationship with. The programme is run in close 
co-operation with our quality team 
and aims to improve compliance at this second-tier stage of our value chain. Improvements are targeted  
with both our chemical restrictions 
and the environmental and safety 
requirements from our Code of Conduct following our Limited Audit Programme. All participating mills sign 
our Code of Conduct. 
In 2010, 24 mills in China and nine mills in 
Bangladesh took part in the Programme. 
Following our first audits we have seen  
a major improvement in the practices  
in this sector, which has rarely been  
the subject of auditing by brands.
–  The vast majority of the mills now 
meet wastewater requirements and where these have not been met, we have signed an agreement with the mill to make relevant improvements
–  Most safety requirements are met and workers receive relevant training
–  All participating mills now have sufficient policies and management systems in place to prevent child 
labour and to ensure proper 
recruitment processes.
Given the positive outcome of this 
programme, we will continue to 
develop it and aim for the Mill Development Programme to become a regular routine for fabric mills in both China and Bangladesh.
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 49
CHOOSE  AND  REWARD  RESPONSIBLE  PARTNERS
BEYOND  MONITORING  –  
BUILDING  MANAGEMENT  
CAPACITIES  AND  STRENGTHENING 
SUPPLIER  OWNERSHIP
TRAINING SUPPLIERS’  
EHS PERSONNEL IN INDIA
One of the biggest challenges with 
suppliers in India is that most of the workers in charge of compliance with 
our environmental health and safety 
(EHS) requirements have little knowledge of technical issues like chemical handling and environmental management. This leads to high levels 
of non-compliance in these areas.
We therefore decided to launch a 
project to train workers with technical 
responsibilities in supplier factories  
on our compliance requirements,  
such as chemists in charge of quality 
issues. The programme started with an introductory seminar in October 
2010 in Bangalore and representatives 
from 10 supplier factories have been identified to receive intensive training on H&M’s specific requirements  
on environmental issues and  
chemical handling.After this, the newly-trained workers assessed their own factories and 
submitted correction plans to H&M 
outlining timelines and concrete actions. This will be followed by an H&M assessment in February 2011 to 
verify corrective actions and provide 
suggestions for further improvements.
The key success factor for this project 
will be the ownership and understanding 
of our requirements by workers with 
knowledge and interest in these issues.
A second seminar is planned  
for May 2011 to discuss status, 
achievements and challenges, and  
to plan further steps to sustain a safe 
workplace. The goal of this initiative  
is to have zero compliance issues  
by the end of 2011 and if successful  
the programme will be rolled out  
to all Indian suppliers in 2012. 
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 50
If we want our suppliers to be in charge of 
their own sustainability in the long run, this needs to involve their employees. Employees need to know their rights and how to claim them. Ultimately, we want them to be able  
to influence their situation through dialogue with their employers. Achieving this position remains a challenge today as many sourcing countries lack sufficient systems for industrial relations and, even if they do  
exist, workers’ committees do not always function effectively.To tackle these challenges, we have  
in recent years initiated training 
programmes to raise workers’ 
awareness of their rights and 
procedures to claim them. For several years, through our audit programme, we have also monitored the existence and effectiveness of worker/
management communication systems, 
such as grievance systems and effective workers’ committees.
WORKERS’ AWARENESS FILMS  
IN BANGLADESH AND INDIA 
To address this need we collaborated with local NGOs in Bangladesh to develop a series of five short films, 
supported by training packages.  
The films cover some of the key  
issues covered by our Full Audit 
Programme, namely: – Maternity leave 
– Leave and documentation 
– Abuse and grievance 
– Health and safety 
– Overtime.Grievance systems and worker/management communication  
are cross-cutting issues that are 
emphasised in all the films. The  
films show day-to-day scenarios and 
suggest how workers and managers should deal with situations that  
might arise. 
Besides raising awareness, our aim 
has been to encourage more suppliers to improve their own training of 
employees, for example by using 
these resources to help educate  
new employees. Feedback has  
been excellent and factories  
have requested films covering 
additional topics.
During 2010, we continued to 
distribute the films to all new suppliers, and shared the material  
with other brands. In 2010, more than 115,000 workers and middle managers viewed the films.CHOOSE  AND  REWARD  RESPONSIBLE  PARTNERS
BEYOND  MONITORING  –  
RAISING  WOR kERS’  
A W ARENESS  Of THEIR  RIGHTS
WORKERS  AND  MIDDLE 
MANAGERS  REACHED 
THROUGH  AWARENESS 
RAISING  TRAINING  FILMS 
(ACCUMULATED )
2008  2009  2010
050,000150,000250,000
100,000200,000300,000350,000
71.2
42,929212,000327,195
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 51
Our audits show encouraging 
developments in compliance related to the issues covered in the films.  
As the chart below shows, the compliance level for leave (time-off) issues at 86 factories in Bangladesh that have participated in this training has improved from 78 to 90 percent 
between their first and second head 
audits. This supports our belief that raising awareness can have a positive effect on compliance since workers 
start claiming their rights more 
effectively.Due to its success, we have decided  
to adopt this approach to awareness-raising in India, where we will produce 
a number of locally adapted short films 
together with the NGO Solidaridad. The programme in India will start during 2011.
WORKERS ’ CAPACITY  
BUILDING  PROJECT  – INDIA
Since 2007 we have run a modular training project in Tirupur, India. One  
of the challenges this training aims to 
address is that workers’ committees often exist at factory level, but do not 
always function effectively to promote workers’ rights and ensure worker 
participation.
By raising awareness of workers’ rights 
and the understanding of local labour laws, the project aims to encourage 
workers to support their worker 
committees and develop appropriate strategies for communication and grievance-handling systems.
COMPLIANCE  PROGRESS  ON SELECTED  LEAVE  REQUIREMENTS  AT BANGLADESHI  FACTORIES
0%20%40%60%80%100%
Sick leave 
permissionSick leave 
compensationAnnual 
leaveAdditional 
leaveMaternity 
leaveTotal
72%77%70%80%91%
78%91%99%92%
77%94% 90%Head Audit 1  Head Audit 2
Involving our suppliers’ employees is part of our work.CHOOSE  AND  REWARD  RESPONSIBLE  PARTNERS
BEYOND  MONITORING  –  
RAISING  WOR kERS’  
A W ARENESS  Of THEIR  RIGHTS
Since 2008 more than  
300,000 garment workers and 
middle managers in Bangladesh 
have been educated on worker rights through short films.
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 52
FLA W ORKER  PARTICIPATION 
PROJECT  - CHIN A
China is a market that faces a number 
of challenges when it comes to worker participation. Freedom of association 
is not permitted by law and although 
we see positive tendencies many factories still lack sufficient systems for dialogue between workers and management.
At the same time, the Chinese 
garment industry increasingly faces labour shortages and the challenge of 
retaining skilled workers. We believe 
that improving worker participation is key to tackling these challenges and will lead to more stable supply from China that includes better working 
conditions. So in 2010, we decided  
to join the FLA’s Worker Participation 
Project to support progress in  this area.
The project is designed to create a 
platform for worker/management dialogue and provides training to worker representatives and factory managers. Currently, two of our 
suppliers are participating in this CHOOSE  AND  REWARD  RESPONSIBLE  PARTNERS
BEYOND  MONITORING  –  
RAISING  WOR kERS’  
A W ARENESS  Of THEIR  RIGHTS
project, which will continue through 
2011. The desired outcome is improved communication systems  
in the factories and at the end of the project these will be evaluated and we will then decide whether to scale-up the project. 
Worker participation in China needs further improvements.The training consists of three modules:
Module I: Education on monetary 
benefits to enable workers to access 
their Social Security benefits.
Module II: Education on workers’ 
rights to show their rights on working 
conditions and workplace environment, 
including working hours, minimum wages, equality, health and occupational safety etc.
Module III: Education for all committee 
members to create an understanding 
of what a functional committee is  
and to develop strategies to improve their work.
We currently have three suppliers  
and five factories participating in  
the project and each of these has 
implemented a so-called WCB-team 
that ensures all new employees receive training on their rights and that all employees receive monthly refresher training to maintain knowledge. To date 
in these factories, 86 percent of all 
workers have received training on module I, and 83 percent have started training in module II.
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 53
We have high expectations of our suppliers, 
in terms of quality, prices, lead times and Code of Conduct compliance. Demanding positive change from our suppliers is one thing, but we also need to consider how our own decisions affect our suppliers in their ability to meet our standards. This has  
an impact on how we design, plan and  
purchase our collections. CHOOSE  AND  REWARD  RESPONSIBLE  PARTNERS
THE CHALLENGE
Late changes to a product’s design  
or poor communication with our 
suppliers can lead to tight production 
lead times. This can result in 
inefficiencies and affect the working conditions at our suppliers’ factories and the quality of the products.
H&M aims to ensure that our own 
purchasing practices do not conflict with the requirements of our Code  
of Conduct. This can sometimes be 
difficult as we strive to meet the 
demands of our customers.  
Regular mutual feedback, open communications and clear expectations all play an important  
role in overcoming this challenge. 
A PARTNERSHIP APPROACH
Long-term partnerships with our key suppliers provide mutual benefits.
Together with our suppliers we can 
plan ahead and learn from each other, enabling us to develop and grow together. For our suppliers, being a good partner to H&M includes actively 
working towards full compliance with our Code of Conduct. Showing this 
commitment brings related benefits, 
such as long-term order planning and 
stable orders over time. All factories have a Code of Conduct grade  
based on the results of our Full Audit 
Programme and this will change to  
a more accurate and comparable 
index-based score as we roll out our new ICoC grading system in 2011  
(see page 36 for details).
PRICE SETTING AND PAYMENTS
We think an honest approach and mutual transparency are the basis for  
a good business partnership. Prices 
naturally play a part in our supplier 
selection process, alongside factors such as capacities, lead times, quality and Code of Conduct compliance. 
To be able to negotiate prices with  
us, our suppliers need to have a clear 
picture of H&M’s expectations. In return, we make sure that our 
merchandisers have good knowledge 
of both reasonable market prices and our suppliers’ costs in order to agree  
a fair price. We follow the ethos of ‘negotiating, not bargaining’. Payment procedures for our chosen suppliers 
are clearly agreed in advance and our 
policy is that we will pay all invoices  
on time. 
Regardless of the price that might  
be offered, however, we would not 
consider a supplier that does  not comply with the minimum requirements of our Code of  Conduct or our quality standards.BEYOND  MONITORING  –  
RESPONSIBLE  PURCHASING  
AND  SUPPLIER  RELATIONS
A close dialogue is essential. 
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 54
COMMUNICATION IS KEY
We have a direct relationship with  
our suppliers and meet with them  
on a regular basis. We evaluate our 
suppliers twice-a-year and discuss  
the results together.
As part of our commitment to good 
communications, we strive to apply 
pre-order product planning, with  
early information about product 
specifications, wherever possible. With our key suppliers we develop 
long-term capacity plans about six to 
12 months in advance and aim to plan our purchasing process accordingly. These planning systems help  
suppliers to monitor their capacity, 
performance and adherence to our 
Code of Conduct. 
As a fashion company in a fast-moving 
market, we need to meet our 
customers’ demands. This can 
sometimes mean late changes on product orders. Intensive capacity  
and pre-order planning alongside our suppliers, with clarity on volumes and 
lead times, can help to minimise this.We want our suppliers to be good partners to H&M. We reward suppliers 
that show strong improvement, in terms of business performance and Code of Conduct compliance, with 
stable orders or higher order volumes. 
Our commitment to suppliers is clear – 
through working with H&M, we want them to grow and develop further.
SUPPLIER DEVELOPMENT
In order to support the development of our suppliers, H&M places a focus on sharing knowledge and providing 
training. We think this contributes  
to a more sustainable supply chain.
Our production offices around the 
world are responsible for identifying 
the right suppliers and allocating 
production. Our buying department and merchandising teams receive regular training on sustainability 
issues. Those responsible for placing 
orders with suppliers are required  
to understand our Code of Conduct grading and how their decisions can impact on our suppliers. Code of 
Conduct compliance determines which suppliers can and cannot be used and can also play a role in 
defining order quantities placed  
with certain suppliers.
ENDING SUPPLIER  
RELATIONS RESPONSIBLY
While rejecting suppliers could  
be seen as a quick fix to react to instances of non-compliance,  
H&M commits to work together  
with our suppliers to make  
long-lasting improvements through our partnership approach. We clearly inform suppliers about the business 
risks that can result from non-
compliance and seek to educate  
them and support their development. Where there are problems, we work  
to encourage improvements.
Despite this, sometimes a situation 
can arise where we need to end  
a relationship, for example due to 
continued non-compliance with  
our Code of Conduct or our  
business requirements. Especially 
 in economically difficult times, the termination of contracts has a 
significant impact and can leave thousands of garment workers 
unemployed. H&M therefore not  
only has responsibilities to a supplier during a relationship, but also when  
a relationship comes to its end.
When a relationship needs to be 
ended, we commit to a reasonable phase-out period and inform our suppliers around three to six months 
in advance, in order to give them the 
time and opportunity to find other customers. When a supplier closes down factories, we try to influence them to follow legal requirements.CHOOSE  AND  REWARD  RESPONSIBLE  PARTNERS
BEYOND  MONITORING  –  
RESPONSIBLE  PURCHASING  
AND  SUPPLIER  RELATIONS
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 55
Many of the challenges we face in order  
to make our entire value chain more 
sustainable are complex and go far beyond the individual factory level. Many issues concern whole industries or require  
country-specific solutions. Also, the deeper down our value chain we go the less direct our business relations become and our influence weakens.Teaming up with partners on voluntary 
programmes and using our influence to improve public policy related to 
supply chain issues are some of the 
actions we take to tackle these challenges.
TOWARDS HIGHER WAGES  
IN BANGLADESH
In Bangladesh, the government does not review minimum wage levels regularly and systems for employees 
to negotiate directly with their 
employers are generally not sufficient.
FOR SUSTAINABLE WAGES  
We see that statutory minimum 
wages, sector standards, and 
preferably collective agreements, are the only realistic systems to achieve sustainable development of wages across an industrial sector. We also 
believe that these systems must 
define wage levels that are enough to live on. Our Code of Conduct requires our suppliers to pay wages based on 
whichever of these systems provides 
the highest wages.Until 2010, the minimum wage level  
for the garment industry in 
Bangladesh was last reviewed in 
2006. During this time living costs have increased resulting in minimum wages going down in relative terms.
ENGAGING WITH THE BANGLADESHI GOVERNMENT Where minimum wages are too low, we can use our influence to demand systematic improvements. In January 
2010, together with a number of other 
companies, we sent a letter to the government of Bangladesh. Together, we requested an urgent review of the minimum wage and the establishment 
of a mechanism for a yearly review.
In a second letter from our CEO, 
Karl-Johan Persson, to the Prime Minister in August 2010, we reiterated 
our initial requests and clearly 
expressed our commitment to long-term business relations with  
our Bangladeshi suppliers and our 
willingness to accept price increases 
that might arise as a consequence from this salary revision.At H&M we strive for long-term  
and stable business relations with 
suppliers. We have been buying from 
suppliers in Bangladesh since 1982 and have had a full-time production office in Dhaka since 1986. 
MINIMUM WAGES INCREASE 
A minimum wage board was formed  
in spring 2010 and a new minimum wage, valid from November 2010,  
was defined in August. Wages 
increased by 67 to 81 percent, 
depending on job categories. We regard minimum wages or equivalent standards as competition neutral and these increases can only be regarded  
as positive.
While we appreciate this is a step into 
the right direction, we still request that the government creates a mechanism 
for automatic annual wage reviews to 
ensure that minimum wages develop in line with living costs. During autumn 2010, we continued discussions on 
how we can strengthen our 
contribution to positive development in Bangladesh even further and continue to underline our commitment CHOOSE  AND  REWARD  RESPONSIBLE  PARTNERS
BEYOND  MONITORING  –  
WORkING IN PARTNERSHIP  &
INfLUENCING  PUBLIC  POLICY
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 56
to the country. We will report on 
further actions as they are decided.
MEDIATING INDUSTRIAL 
DIALOGUE IN CAMBODIA
Unlike Bangladesh, Cambodia has 
extensive experience in industrial relations and collective bargaining. 
Nevertheless, this year’s minimum 
wage negotiations resulted in a  
major conflict between unions and employers’ groups. Unions called  
for strikes and the employer’s 
association, GMAC, regarded the 
strikes as illegal referring to a court decision from September. Employers reacted by locking striking workers 
and union leaders out of work and 
even with dismissals. Of the most affected factories, two supplied  
H&M among others.
Through our production office in 
Phnom Penh we kept in constant contact with the unions, GMAC,  
the ILO and the Better Factories Cambodia Programme, as well as 
other retailers. We decided to work 
with a number of other retailers to send a letter of concern to GMAC, the unions involved and the government, urging all parties to return to a meaningful dialogue and good faith negotiations.
We also held several direct meetings 
both with union, as well as GMAC representatives, in order to mediate between the two sides. During this 
process we could see the positions  
of the two sides easing and moving 
closer together.
By the beginning of November, 
however, around 800 workers, of 
whom 510 were employees of the two factories supplying H&M, had not had their jobs reinstated, so we continued 
discussions at factory level. As a 
result, all 360 employees at one of  
the two factories supplying H&M were reinstated by mid-November. By mid-February 2011, the remaining 150 
workers at the second factory were 
re-employed, and a Memorandum of Understanding was signed between the factory and trade union.At H&M, we take a clear stand in support of meaningful industrial relations and the freedom of 
association for workers wherever  
we operate. 
To reduce the risk of conflict in 
Cambodia in the future and to return 
to the usually positive industrial 
relations in the garment sector, we  
are aiming to encourage all of our suppliers to sign a Memorandum of Understanding with relevant unions  
in 2011 that will see both parties agreeing to settle disputes through  
an arbitration council and respecting  
its decisions. CHOOSE  AND  REWARD  RESPONSIBLE  PARTNERS
BEYOND  MONITORING  –  
WORkING IN PARTNERSHIP  & 
INfLUENCING  PUBLIC  POLICY
TUOMO  POUTIAINEN , CHIEF  TECHNICAL  ADVISOR ,  
ILO B ETTER  FACTORIES  CAMBODIA
 
“H&M is one of the first international buyers participating  
in the programme and using its assessment, advisory and training services. International buyers such as H&M have, 
through their engagement, committed to be part of the 
solution in improving working conditions. This is not only occasionally, when there are crisis situations, but long-term support for building of sustainable enterprises. H&M can help address problems of today, as well as helping to overcome 
Cambodia’s often confrontational industrial relations, and 
work towards providing a better future for workers, factories and consumers alike.”
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 57
TACKLING  SUMANGALI 
SCHEME S IN THE  INDIA N 
GARMENT  INDUSTRY
In September 2010, Dutch newspaper 
De Volkskrant published a series  
of articles on bonded labour in 
Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu, India.  
The articles described young women 
employed under a so-called, sumangali scheme. 
Sumangali schemes are considered  
a form of forced labour and were first 
recognised in the late 1980s. They involve young women being sent from 
villages to spinning mills as part of  
a supposed ‘marriage assistance 
system’. In Tamil “sumangali” refers  
to an unmarried girl becoming a respectable woman through marriage. 
In return for their work the women are 
promised a substantial dowry at the end of a three-year contract.
H&M views sumangali schemes as 
absolutely unacceptable and not 
compliant with our Code of Conduct. We address the issue with our suppliers and monitor the existence of any kinds of forced labour through our audit program. Sumangali schemes mainly occur in spinning mills and our audit program can ensure that such 
practices are not used in spinning mills 
owned by vertically integrated suppliers. Spinning mills are, however, usually second-tier suppliers and we do not have direct influence on this 
production stage. We therefore have 
to work to address this issue through collaborative actions and public policy.
H&M ExPERIENCE WITH 
SUMANGALI SCHEMES  
One of the companies mentioned by 
De Volkskrant was KPR Mills India. In early 2009 we audited KPR Mills India 
as a potential new garment supplier. 
Through our audits we discovered a sumangali scheme at their spinning mill and as a result we did not approve KPR mills as a supplier.
In May 2010, we were approached by 
Quantum Knits a garment factory which, since our audit in 2009, had become a separate manufacturing 
unit of KPR mills. We audited the 
manufacturing unit as a potential new supplier factory and as compliance with our minimum requirements  
was proven we approved this unit  
for future H&M production.
Being aware of the affiliation with KPR 
mills and the earlier audit results, we also conducted an extended visit to their spinning mill again. We checked company records, such as payrolls  
and employment contracts, and interviewed workers who confirmed they received monthly salaries and were free to leave after work. 
Based on these results, we started  
our collaboration with Quantum Knits 
in August 2010 by placing a small test order to evaluate them further. As part 
of this evaluation we conducted a 
follow-up audit in September 2010. This audit showed that management had a low desire to co-operate with H&M in the transparent manner we 
expect from all our suppliers. As a 
result, we decided not to continue  
the collaboration. Because only a  
test order had been placed with the supplier, termination was valid 
immediately and did not have a major 
effect either on the factory’s business and connected jobs or on our supply. CHOOSE  AND  REWARD  RESPONSIBLE  PARTNERS
BEYOND  MONITORING  –  
WORkING IN PARTNERSHIP  & 
INfLUENCING  PUBLIC  POLICY
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 58
ACTIONS AGAINST  
SUMANGALI SCHEMES 
To address the issue of sumangali 
schemes on a broader scale and  
to reach out to second-tier stages 
throughout the industry, we are in close dialogue with a number of key stakeholders. In 2010, we:  
–  Sent a letter to Apparel Exporters Promotion Council (AEPC) requesting that they address the issue with members and 
government authorities
–  Discussed the issue with the Textile 
Secretary at the Ministry of Textiles in March 2010
–  Raised the issue within the Brands 
Ethical Working Group (BEWG), 
which includes other leading brands that source from India
–   Held meetings with the Tirupur Exporters Association (TEA) in 
October and November together 
with other brands to create a stakeholder initiative chaired  
by TEA –  Encouraged our suppliers in  
Tirupur to lobby the Southern India Mills Association (SIMA) and TEA  
to take responsibility for the issue
–  Discussed the issue within the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI)
–  Started to map spinning mills  
used by our suppliers in India  
and Bangladesh.CHOOSE  AND  REWARD  RESPONSIBLE  PARTNERS
BEYOND  MONITORING  –  
WORkING IN PARTNERSHIP  & 
INfLUENCING  PUBLIC  POLICY
BANNING SANDBLASTING  
OF TE xTILES  
 
 Sandblasting is a technique used to give garments, in particular denim,  
a used or worn-out look. In 2006, media reports drew attention to studies that highlighted serious health risks to workers from unprotected use of this technique.
Back then, we immediately 
implemented strict protection requirements for suppliers when using sandblasting. We supported 
this with training for suppliers  
using sandblasting and monitored 
compliance with our requirements through our audit programme. 
Even with these protective 
measures, we felt the need to minimise further the risks to workers in our own and other 
companies’ supply chains. As a 
result, we decided to stop buying and retailing any products that used sandblasting after December 2010. Instead, alternative techniques such 
as manual scraping will be used to 
achieve the same effects.
To encourage other companies to 
join this ban, we teamed up with 
Levi Strauss & Co. and together, 
announced a global ban on sandblasting for all of our products and brands. We are happy to see that other big companies have since 
declared a similar ban. 
Even with our ban, we have decided  
to continue monitoring sandblasting 
conditions in supplier factories even 
though the process is no longer 
allowed for H&M production.  
In this way, we are continuing to minimise the health and safety  
risks to suppliers’ workers from sandblasting, and overall to better practices in the industry.
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 59
DEVASTATING FIRE AT BANGLADESHI SUPPLIER 
  
On 25 February 2010, a devastating 
fire took the lives of 21 workers at Garib & Garib, one of our supplier 
factories in Bangladesh. Our 
thoughts are with the families, and especially the children, who lost dear family members and whose lives have been drastically changed 
by this incident.
The fire was caused by a short 
circuit in the factory warehouse and 
workers were trapped due to heavy 
smoke, which made it impossible to use the fire escape routes. In the wake of the fire, we wanted to show our support and voluntarily 
contributed to those who were 
affected. Our immediate concern was the children who had lost parents and we engaged Save the Children Sweden-Denmark (SCSD) 
to make an assessment of the 
situation for them and their needs.In total, 25 children lost one parent. The children range from 4 to 17 years old and the assessment 
showed that all the families 
concerned live in villages under poor conditions, where the loss  
of a parent’s income would have  
a significant impact on their life. 
Together with SCSD we determined 
that their core needs were to continue their education and  
also their ongoing food and  
clothing requirements.
Based on suggestions from SCSD, 
we developed a voluntary support programme for the affected 
children. This involves directly 
paying 2,000 Taka per month to  
the 25 children until they turn  
18 and payments started in  
March 2010. In addition to this, 
100,000 Taka has been deposited in 
each child’s name and will become available after their 18th birthday. The Bangladesh Rehabilitation Assistance Committee (BRAC) is 
monitoring the payments made to 
the families, as we want to ensure that the monthly payment really benefits the children. 
There have been plenty of 
challenges to arranging this support, such as locating the families all over the country and finding a bank that 
is able to ensure payments and 
withdrawal all over Bangladesh.  
Our gratitude goes to BDDL bank which was brave enough to take  
on the challenge and co-operate  
on this issue. 
Additional compensation to the 
victims of the fire has been made through the supplier’s insurance. This procedure was discussed during a roundtable meeting with a number of trade unions and NGOs, 
that was facilitated by the global 
union federation, ITGWFL. The meeting agreed that buyers and unions should address together  
the lack of social security systems  
in Bangladesh at government  
level. H&M will continue to follow  
up on this.
We have also decided to dedicate  
SEK 1 million for a fire safety 
improvement project that should benefit the whole garment industry in Bangladesh beyond our own 
supplier base. The objectives are  
to analyse and tackle the root 
causes of poor fire safety in close collaboration with the relevant authorities and to raise fire safety 
awareness among factory 
management and workers.Continues on the following page
CHOOSE  AND  REWARD  RESPONSIBLE  PARTNERS
BEYOND  MONITORING  –  
WORkING IN PARTNERSHIP  & 
INfLUENCING  PUBLIC  POLICY
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 60
DEVASTATING FIRE AT BANGLADESHI SUPPLIER 
  JOINING FORCES WITH  
OTHER BUYERS
The sustainability challenges within 
the global retail business affect everyone in the industry. These 
challenges are often universal issues 
that no company can solve on its own. We also often share suppliers with other retail brands.
As a result, we find that collaborating 
with industry peers can help to increase the level of influence we have on a particular issue where working 
alone we would have less influence. 
We see sharing best practice and developing ways to jointly tackle common challenges as a key way to take our sustainability work further 
and make the whole industry more 
sustainable. To deliver on this approach we are involved in a number of forums that aim to improve collaboration between different 
companies in our industry.
BUYERS FORUM BANGLADESH 
This forum was initiated in 2006 by H&M together with GAP Inc. and a 
number of other companies. The forum is co-ordinated with the help  
of IFC-SEDF, a part of the World Bank Group. Today it functions as a forum 
for around 20 brands to discuss topics such as workers’ rights issues and grey areas in local labour laws, and seeks  
to build consensus to address these issues with one voice. As explained above, the Forum addressed the issue of minimum wages through a joint letter to the Bangladesh government. 
Other initiatives include developing a 
common health and safety checklist for factories to ensure compliance with buyers’ requirements. This is instead of factories having to possibly 
adopt different requirements from 
different buyers.
BRANDS FORUM HONG KONG  
This forum is in development and  
aims to bring brands together with 
representatives of the Chinese garment industry. The Forum will work on collaborative approaches to issues 
such as workers’ rights and aims to 
build a platform for joint capacity building initiatives.The fire safety improvement  
plan includes:
–  Conducting a study in co-
operation with the Bangladesh University of Engineering and 
Technology to understand the 
root causes of poor electrical installations in Bangladeshi garment factories and figure out 
potential actions to tackle these 
root causes.
–  Contacting the public Fire Safety Civil Defence to gain a better understanding of how fire safety 
licences are issued. Through this 
we identified very good knowledge among the staff, but too few resources to ensure that issued licences are up-to-date. 
We have addressed this issue 
with the Bangladeshi government and will also follow-up through the Buyers Forum Bangladesh.–  Producing films to raise awareness on fire safety among workers and factory management in collaboration, with other brands through the Buyers  
Forum Bangladesh.
–  Collaborating with the two most important employer associations, BGMEA and BKMEA, to 
incorporate requirements for 
electrical safety at all their member factories.
CHOOSE  AND  REWARD  RESPONSIBLE  PARTNERS
BEYOND  MONITORING  –  
WORkING IN PARTNERSHIP  & 
INfLUENCING  PUBLIC  POLICY
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 61
BRANDS CO-OPERATION  
FORUM INDIA 
This is a group of buyers that sources 
garments from India and consists of 
around 25 companies, as well as some agents and third party auditors. The Forum meets every three months and H&M is an active member and chairs 
some of the sub-groups, including the 
accessories group. In 2010, the Forum used its joint influence to address the issue of sumangali schemes at 
industry level. It also provides a 
platform to share knowledge about issues of special national concern, such as home working or the implementation of new minimum 
wages in the Bangalore area. 
MULTI -STAKEHOLDER 
INITIATIVES
Beyond collaboration by brands, 
multi-stakeholder initiatives are some of the best ways to create dialogue 
between different partners and to 
build a consensus on how to tackle issues that concern all partners equally. Besides our strong affiliation with the Fair Labor Association (FLA), 
the UN Global Compact and a number of other global or industry-wide 
initiatives, H&M is actively involved  
in several local or national multi-stakeholder initiatives, including: 
BETTER FACTORIES CAMBODIA We have supported the International Labour Organization’s Better Factories Cambodia (ILO-BFC) programme since 2005. The programme combines 
assessments of working conditions 
with advisory and training services. It addresses the core needs of workers, unions, government and the 
international buyers who participate in 
the programme through a fee-based subscription system. Participation in the programme is mandatory for all export garment factories in Cambodia. 
H&M was one of the first international 
buyers to participate in the programme and use its assessment, advisory and training services. As an active member, we participate in two 
forums a year. The programme has 
contributed to significantly improved compliance with our Code of Conduct by Cambodian suppliers. Since 2008, we have used the ILO-BFC’s 
assessments to promote further improvements and limit our own 
audits to requirements not covered  
by the programme.
Read more about ILO-BFC at: 
www.betterfactories.org
BETTER WORK  
The International Labour Organization 
(ILO) started the Better Work programme with the aim of bringing employees and employers together to 
find solutions to workers’ issues and 
ensure a sustainable labour market. The programme is based on the Better Factories Cambodia model and currently covers Vietnam, Jordan and 
Lesotho, with the intention of rolling it 
out in more and more countries in  
Asia and the Pacific region. In 2009, the Better Work Vietnam programme was initiated in the Ho Chi Minh City 
area and there are plans to expand it 
to Indonesia. Both countries are home to H&M suppliers and we welcome their inclusion.
Read more about Better Work at: 
www.betterwork.orgGARMENT SECTOR  
ROUNDTABLE INDIA 
This new initiative aims to bring 
together brands, manufacturers,  
trade unions, NGOs, IGOs, third-party 
monitoring organisations and researchers to participate in a dialogue about macro-level issues of 
the Indian garment sector such as 
wages, safety or environmental standards. H&M is very positive about the Roundtable’s potential to address 
these issues in India. In addition to 
participating, we will continue to promote participation in the roundtable with others in the industry. The first roundtable meeting was held 
in January 2011.CHOOSE  AND  REWARD  RESPONSIBLE  PARTNERS
BEYOND  MONITORING  –  
WORkING IN PARTNERSHIP  & 
INfLUENCING  PUBLIC  POLICY
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 62*based on the share price on 6 September 2010BE ETHICAL3
Being ethical is about doing the right thing. We believe that 
we have a responsibility to act with integrity and respect towards everyone who contributes to our success. We commit to being ethical in all our operations. This includes the way we interact with our customers, our employees, our suppliers and all our other stakeholders. Our ethical approach is firmly rooted in our corporate values and we take a clear stand against corruption and any form of discrimination throughout our operations.50% of our board members  
are women and 50% men58 hours of training per 
employee in 2010
Incentive Program for employees launched based  
on a donation of shares valued at SE k 1 billion*
IN THIS  SECTION 
A fair partner to our colleagues .......................... 63 
Anti-corruption ................................................... 67 
Responsible marketing ....................................... 68 
50 50
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 63
A VALUES -DRIVEN  WORKPLACE
The H&M culture is defined by a 
number of enduring values. No matter where we are in the world, our culture 
and spirit are instantly recognisable. 
Having a values-driven business has allowed us to build a nimble, proactive and lean organisation that can grow quickly. Having clear values can also 
help us to attract and retain the  
right people, further contributing  
to our success.
We believe in our people and their 
ability to take their own initiative.  
We encourage employees to test  
their boundaries and put forward  
new ideas. Being straightforward  
and showing team spirit is encouraged, as is common sense, cost-consciousness and not least,  
keeping it simple and avoiding unnecessary bureaucracy.
In 2010, we updated our values.  
We initiated a series of workshops  
for all employees to ensure our 
colleagues understand our values  
and to provide an opportunity to discuss their interpretation of them.DIVERSITY  AND  EQUALITY
Being an ethical company includes taking a clear stand against discrimination wherever we operate. 
As we operate in 38 countries, 
cultural diversity is part of our daily work. We see workforce diversity, in terms of age, gender and ethnicity,  
as an asset to the company at all 
levels. We seek to ensure equality  
of opportunity throughout the  
company. For example, 50 percent  
of our board members are men and 50 percent, women.
Not all countries in which we operate 
have clear and comprehensive labour legislation. Therefore it is important 
for us to have global guidelines for 
diversity and equality, based on the International Labour Organization convention (C111 Discrimination). We published our policies in full in our 
2009 Sustainability Report available 
in the archive at www.hm.com/consciousactions2010. RECRUITMENT
During 2010, we set out to improve  
on our recruitment process by identifying best practice in different 
H&M markets and streamlining our 
global approach. 
We launched a new career site, on 
which candidates are able to match 
themselves to different job roles. By 
creating a series of films, checklists and an online quiz, we now encourage candidates to find out for themselves 
if they have a profile and attitude that 
matches our culture and expectations. 
We aim for all candidates to have an 
equal chance to be chosen for a given 
position. Our Applicant Tracking 
System, launched in 2010, is designed to guarantee a good welcome and timely response for each new candidate. It also tracks their progress 
through the entire recruitment 
process, enabling us to maximise  
fair access to our positions. To date, the system has been rolled out in  
10 countries.A fAIR PARTNER  TO  
OUR  COLLEAGUES
H&M has been expanding strongly for  
many years and with more than 87 ,000 
employees in 38 countries, our responsibility is greater than ever. Our approach is shaped by a fundamental respect for the individual. This applies to every aspect of employment, from fair wages, working hours and freedom of association to equal opportunities for growth and development within the company. Importantly, our approach to  
being a good employer includes those countries where laws and regulations  
fall short of our own requirements.
81% 
H&M Total workforce  
are women71%
H&M management  
positions occupied  
by women*
* all management positions including store 
managers. Share per category women/men in percent: Board of directors: 50/50, group level management (incl. CEO): 39/61, sales country managers: 48/52, production office managers: 44/56, division heads (buying office): 47/53, section heads (buying office): 60/40, area managers (sales): 62/48, store managers: 77/33. BE ETHICAL
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 64
TRAINING & DEVELOPMENT
One of our ambitions is to give our 
colleagues the opportunity to grow and develop within H&M, providing 
training wherever possible. We want 
our employees to feel that H&M is  
a place where they are valued and  
can develop.
Each employee received an average of 
58 hours of training in 2010 and during the year five new training themes were produced. To guarantee the 
quality of our training, we have been 
working on a project to streamline training materials and synchronise training records at H&M. Additionally, development is supported by regular 
performance review dialogues.
Also introduced this year was the 
Global Role Profiles programme for our senior store positions. Through 
this, we aim to increase the potential 
for international employee exchanges and to support our expansion into new markets by having a team of trained and H&M-ready employees available.A fAIR PARTNER  TO OUR  COLLEAGUES
to create a teaching methodology  
that is easy to duplicate internationally. We strive to make relevant training 
tools as accessible as possible to our  
target groups.
During 2010, new materials were 
produced for a blended curriculum  
of classroom, workshop, follow-up  
and independent study. We also introduced a blended learning programme for sales advisors in new 
markets such as Turkey and Romania.
LMS (L EARNING  
MANAGEMENT  SYSTEM )
During 2010, H&M took a strategically 
important decision to invest in a Learning Management System. This 
LMS will help to optimise our vast 
library of training resources and serve as the central hub for our training initiatives. When launched, the system will run company-wide and be 
accessible to all employees.ONGOING  TRAINING  PROCESS
A key focus in 2010 was to make 
training activities more hands-on and accessible for all employees. The 
previous year, we introduced the Sales 
Advisor service-training concept, which encouraged our store management teams to take a greater responsibility for training.INDUCTION  TRAINING 
Our rapid expansion makes it increasingly challenging for us to ensure that all employees are 
welcomed into our organisation  
in a consistent, efficient and high-
quality manner.
We offer a blended approach to 
training, whereby e-learning and 
classroom sessions are combined  BE ETHICAL
Our colleagues are key to our success.
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 65
TRAINING AND 
COMMUNICATION  
ON SUSTAINABILITY 
Sustainability is part of our employees’ 
induction training, including store employees. As part of the launch of 
the first Conscious Collection in spring 
2011, we have integrated related sustainability information in our daily sales advisor campaign training.
We regularly use employee 
engagement channels, such as  
the H&M intranet and our employee communication tool, H&M Wallpaper, 
to provide information on 
sustainability topics. In 2010, we published two special issues of H&M Wallpaper focused on sustainability. We have now decided to include a 
sustainability topic on the back of 
each regular edition so that these  
can simply be switched. Thereby  
we can increase our sustainability communication through this channel 
and reduce paper use by a third. EMPLOYEE  RELATIONS
At H&M, we apply an ‘open door’ 
principle, which gives every employee the right to discuss work-related 
issues directly with management.  
Our employees also have the right  
to collective bargaining. Accordingly, 
across all of our operations, around  
50 percent of H&M employees are 
covered by collective bargaining 
agreements. We strive for good relations with all our employees and with employee associations and trade 
unions that represent them. In 2009, 
our Employee Relations department became part of our Human Resources department. Employees are represented at board level, with two 
of the nine Board members being 
employee representatives.CASE STUDY: H&M INCENTIVE PROGRAM  
 
 
 In order to show our appreciation for our 
employees, H&M is starting an incentive 
programme for all employees. The programme  
is being started in 2011 with a donation from the 
Stefan Persson Family, of approximately 4 million H&M shares at a value of approximately SEK 1 billion (based on the share price on 6 September, 
2010) to the Swedish foundation, Stiftelsen H&M 
Incentive Program. The intention is to encourage and acknowledge employees’ long-term involvement and to further strengthen H&M as  
an attractive employer globally. H&M intends to make annual contributions to the foundation,  
with an amount equivalent to 10 percent of the increase in dividend in relation to the previous year’s dividend, under normal circumstances. 
Return on the foundation’s funds is to be evenly 
distributed to employees over time, regardless  
of their position or salary level. This means that employees will be able to benefit from H&M’s expected growth in value in the same manner  
as a shareholders.A fAIR PARTNER  TO OUR  COLLEAGUESBE ETHICAL
50%
of our employees are 
covered by collective bargaining agreements
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 66
We underline our commitment to 
employee representation through our 
Global Framework Agreement with 
UNI (Union Network International , 
www.uniglobalunion.org ). This 
declares that both the company and 
our employees regard the 
International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental  
Principles and Rights at Work to be  
the cornerstone of our co-operation. Our main contact point for this 
agreement is the Swedish 
Commercial Workers Union, Handels, which is a member of UNI.
Read the agreement at: 
www.hm.com/filearea/corporate/fileobjects/pdf/en/RM_UNI_AND_HM_LINK_1178884959035.pdfA. Full-time employees 
B. Part-time employees 
 
   
 
  
    
 
    
C.  Permanent 
employment contract 
D.  Temporary 
employment contract
B 
60%A 
40%
D 
21%
C 
79%A fAIR PARTNER  TO OUR  COLLEAGUESBE ETHICAL
EUROPEAN WORKS  
COUNCIL (EWC)
H&M first signed an agreement  
with the EWC in 1997 and this was 
amended in 2007. H&M and UNI-
Europa are signatories to the 
agreement.
Meetings between management  
and all representatives are held on  
an annual basis and with EWC’s  
select committee, twice a year.  
Topics discussed in 2010 included  
the working environment, particularly  
in our distribution centres, and the 
balance between part-time and full-time employees. Countries represented in EWC 2010 are: Austria, Belgium, Germany, Netherlands, 
Norway, Sweden, Finland and since 
2010, Denmark and Spain.Goze Sener, part-time employee at our new H&M store in Istanbul.
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 67
CODE OF ETHICS
The Code of Ethics states a zero 
tolerance policy on bribery and corruption and that business partners 
should not provide any kind of gifts  
or favours to H&M employees. In the 
same way, H&M employees must  
not require or accept any personal advantages from a business partner. 
The Code applies to all business 
partners and all H&M employees who are in regular contact with them. 
We make all our business partners  
and employees aware of the Code  
and we provide information to help 
them understand it. All of them must 
sign the Code before they can be 
accepted as suppliers to H&M and around 90 percent of them have received related training. 
All relevant employees sign the Code 
of Ethics and commit to comply. In our production offices, all employees have signed the Code and approximately  
95 percent of them have attended 
related workshops. In 2010, a total  
of 6,125 of our employees received training. We inform all new employees 
of the Code during the recruitment process.
H&M has a confidential whistle- 
blowing procedure in place whereby potential breaches can be reported confidentially. 
Our Code of Ethics was revised in 
2010 in order to make it usable for our suppliers in their relations with their 
own suppliers. 
In 2010, we reported all possible 
instances of Code violation through our internal incident reporting tool.  
We identified a total of 12 cases; eight of them led to the termination of employment contracts with H&M.  
One supplier business relationship was terminated. 
Our Code of Ethics is available  
on our website at:
www.hm.com/gb/corporateresponsibility/
informationmaterial__
downloadsarchive.nhtmlPOLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS  
AND LOBBYING
H&M does not provide direct financial contributions to individual politicians or political parties. H&M does, 
however, reserve the right, by way  
of lobbying, to attempt to influence 
political decisions that may have an impact on the company’s business. Examples of lobby work include 
requesting the Bangladeshi 
government to review minimum wage levels and addressing the issue of forced child labour in the Uzbek 
cotton industry on EU level.
PAYMENT OF TA xES
H&M pays taxes and other fees 
according to local laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate. 
H&M paid SEK 6.3 billion in tax at 
Group level in 2010. We follow the OECD guidelines on transfer pricing  
as the basis for how profits should  
be distributed and taxed in 
international companies. 
For more information please see our fiscal 
annual report at:  
www.hm.com/annualreportANTI -CORRUPTION
At H&M, we make it a rule to act with 
integrity at all times. This means that H&M does not accept any form of bribery and we take a clear stand against corruption. We address these issues through our Code of Ethics, which has been in place since 2003.
95%Of H&M employees 
attended a code of ethics related workshopBE ETHICAL
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 68
H&M communicates its business idea  
of ‘fashion and quality at the best price’ 
through the various advertising campaigns we produce each year throughout the world. H&M’s marketing has a major impact and it is essential for us to convey a positive image. H&M’s advertising images do not aim to communicate any specific ideal, but rather  
a range of styles and attitudes. BE ETHICAL
RESPONSIBLE  
MAR kETING
H&M’s advertising campaigns  
are produced centrally in Sweden  
by H&M’s marketing department  
in co-operation with creative 
professionals located in the major fashion hubs of the world. The campaigns are designed to be clear and simple and aim to inform our 
customers of what is new at H&M.  
All of the campaigns show the 
season’s designs and the price of the clothes pictured. The advertisements 
that we produce are largely identical  
in all of our markets, but the media 
strategy is adapted to local requirements and conditions. 
Each season we strive to feature 
models with different looks, styles, and cultural backgrounds to advertise our concepts for women, men, teenagers and children. 
Models are chosen in collaboration 
between internationally recognised agencies and our own representatives. The choices of models are discussed 
internally as well as with the agencies. 
As outlined in our advertising policy, the models depicted in must portray the current fashion in a positive  
and healthy manner. The company deliberately distances itself from drug 
and alcohol abuse, and will not use 
models that do not portray H&M  
in a way that is in accordance with  
that policy. 
H&M has special guidelines for the 
advertising of our children’s concepts. The target audience is parents, not children, and we place advertisements 
in media that are not aimed directly at 
children. Children who take part in our campaigns must take part of their own free will. If children are cast in a photo shoot, there is always an H&M 
representative present to ensure the 
safety of the children and to maintain a professional environment.
We also run cause-related marketing 
campaigns such as Fashion Against 
Aids, aiming to raise awareness on HIV/AIDS among young target groups. Read more about this in the 
strengthen communities commitment 
section on page 100.
Our Fashion against Aids campaign aims to raise awareness on HIV/AIDS.
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 69BE CLIMA TE 
SMART4
Climate change is one of the major challenges of our time.  
We commit to acting climate smart and we strive to be as energy 
efficient as possible and to use more renewable energy. We also want to inspire customers to reduce their climate impact during the user phase and encourage climate smartness throughout our value chain and beyond.IN THIS  SECTION 
Be climate smart ................................................. 70 
Total eCO2 
Total after offsetting 
Target
01234
 TONNES 
C02-e / MSEK 
TURNOVER
2009 2011 2010 2012
C02-e emissions
3.71
3.213.38
750,000 kWh of solar energy expected to  
be generated annually by photovoltic solar 
panels at our distribution centres in Germany 
and BelgiumEnergy use decreased  
by 8% from 2007 to 2010  
in all H&M stores
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 70
We have a target to reduce greenhouse  
gas emissions by 5 percent relative to sales  
year-on-year until 2012. We strive to have 
energy efficient operations and to use renewable energy and we have set targets  
in these areas as well.In the long term, we aspire to 
contribute to more greenhouse  
gas reductions globally than our 
operations emit. The nature of our 
core business requires transport and electricity, so achieving a zero carbon footprint is a challenge. To achieve  
our aspiration we know that we will 
need to use our influence to raise 
awareness and take action on climate change well beyond the scope of  
our operations.
This means our focus needs to be on 
developing and supporting emissions reductions in all parts of our value chain and beyond – whether with 
customers, suppliers and those 
operating deeper in our value chain,  
or raising awareness with the general public and lobbying governments for stricter legislation or climate policy 
and frameworks.
REDUCING GREENHOUSE  
GAS EMISSIONS
Everyone needs to play a part in 
reducing greenhouse gas emissions. We are no exception and we work 
towards reducing emissions resulting from operating our stores, offices and 
warehouses as well as business travel. Choosing the way our goods are transported and influencing our transport partners to adopt better 
practices are other important factors 
in reducing emissions. 
Our research, however, shows that  
the production and user phase of our 
garments have the highest climate 
impact. For this reason we are increasingly working to use our influence to reduce emissions throughout our products’ life cycle.
We have three group-wide targets 
relating to energy use and climate change:
–  Reduce the H&M group’s carbon 
dioxide emissions relative to sales by a minimum of 5 percent per  
year from 2010, compared to  
each previous year, until 2012
–  Source at least 20 percent of our energy from renewable energy sources by 2020–  Reduce energy use in stores  
by 20 percent per square metre  
by 2020, compared to 2007.
DESIGNING  OUR  CARBON 
DIO xIDE REDUCTION  TARGET
In 2009, we set a new three-year climate target to reduce carbon dioxide equivalent (CO
2-e) emissions 
by 5 percent relative to sales each year from 2010 until 2012, using the 
previous year as a baseline. We have 
also committed to offset any shortfall if we do not meet the 5 percent reduction to ensure that our baseline for the following year is 5 percent 
below the previous year. If we perform 
better than our target, the baseline is set against the better performance rather than at 5 percent.
In order to report our emissions 
independently from currency fluctuations, we now report CO
2-e in 
tonnes per million SEK converted from local sales currencies using consistent 
exchange rates from the baseline year 
of 2009.BE CLIMATE  SMART Energy use decreased  
by 8 percent from  
2007 to 2010 in all  
H&M stores
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 71
EMISSIONS  PERFORMANCE  2010
In 2010, the first year of our new 
target, we did not achieve the desired 5 percent reduction in emissions and 
as the chart above shows, we emitted 
3.71 tonnes of CO
2-e for every million 
SEK of turnover in 2010; this compares to 3.38 in 2009 and is a 10 percent 
increase year-on-year. Our target 
emissions level for 2010 was 3.21.
Since we missed our target, we have 
fulfilled our commitment to offset 
emissions equivalent to achieving a  
5 percent reduction over 2009. This 
means 67,000 tonnes of CO
2-e have 
been offset using Tricorona’s UN*  
and Gold Standard certified carbon 
CO2-e emissions by source 2009-2010 
Scope  CO2-e 2010  Share  CO2-e 2009  Share  Change
1 (direct fuel use)  11,466  2.3%  11,951  3% -4%
2 (purchased electricity and heat)  270,422  54.4%  238,201  60%  14%
3 (transport and business travel)  215,377  43.3%  148,007  37%  46%
Total  497,265  100%  398,160  100%  25%reduction projects based on 
renewable energy production.  
The offsets are spread across three specific projects:
–  Yangjiayao: a wind farm in Ningxia 
province, China
–  Tongliao: a wind farm in inner Mongolia, China
–  Sri Balaji: a biomass project in India 
that uses agricultural waste such as 
cotton and rice husks as fuel.
In absolute terms, our CO
2-e emissions 
for scope I-III emissions in 2010 were 497,265 tonnes, an increase of 25 
percent compared to 2009, while our 
sales (excluding VAT) increased by  
15 percent.BE CLIMATE  SMART
Both absolute and relative reductions were achieved in heating and other fuel use in distribution centres as well 
as business travel; however, these 
were significantly outweighed by increases in emissions from goods transport and electricity use. Our total energy use in 2010 was 5,610,730 
gigajoules (GJ). Read more about 
transport on page 73 and electricity 
use in our stores on page 72.
*  The projects have been assessed and authorised by the UN body CDM Executive Board,  
which also issue the certified emissions reductions from the projects.2010  CO2 BY EMISSIONS SOURCE
Data note: When setting our 2010-2012 carbon reduction target in 
2009, the methodology and boundaries of our greenhouse gas reporting were revised to add more emission sources, compared to our previous target cycle for 2005-2009. As a result, in this year’s report we can only provide trend data for 2009 and 2010 for comparison.A. People transport B. Goods transport by air
C. Goods transport by road D. Goods transport by sea
E. Goods transport by rail F. Stores G. Other facilities
A 
3.7%B 
17.6%
C 
14.9%
D 
7.2%f 
49.0%G 
7.1%
E 
0.5%705,000 kWh
of solar energy expected to be 
generated annually by photovoltaic 
solar panels at our distribution  
centres in Germany and Belgium
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 72
BE CLIMATE  SMART
RENEWABLE  ENERGY  USE
Our target for renewable energy is  
to source at least 20 percent of our 
energy from renewable sources by 
2020. This target was set through our 
involvement with the European Retail Round Table (ERRT). 
Unlike our target for reducing energy 
use in stores, it is currently difficult to 
monitor progress against this target. This is due to the lack of a solid framework defining what qualifies  
as renewable energy use in voluntary greenhouse gas accounting and reporting by companies. As a result, we are working with different stakeholders, such as the ERRT and  
its members, the World Resources Institute (WRI) and Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), to find a consensus on how to define, measure and report  
on renewable energy use.
Despite this uncertainty, we are still 
making investments in this area. Photovoltaic solar panels have been installed on the roof of our new 
distribution centre in Belgium, which  
is due to come into operation in spring 2011. Our distribution centre in Hamburg was also built with 
photovoltaic solar panels on its roof and has been in operation since 2008.
The installation in Belgium will cover 
2,030 square metres and estimated annual electricity production will be 225,000 kWh. The installation in Hamburg covers 5,300 square metres 
and generates around 480,000 kWh 
annually, making carbon dioxide reductions of up to 480 tonnes possible.
OUR STORES
The electricity we use in our facilities worldwide (stores, distribution and data centres and offices) is increasing 
in absolute terms but in relation to the 
growth of our business it remains steady. Our stores account for around 89 percent of this electricity use.
Store lighting and heating, ventilation 
and air conditioning (HVAC) are major energy consumers in our stores. In order to reduce their energy use – and 
thereby reduce emissions and costs – 
we follow documented environmental requirements when building our stores. These guidelines are constantly updated to make sure we capture new 
and more energy efficient solutions. 
Our target for energy efficiency is to reduce store energy use per square metre of floor space by 20 percent by 2020, against a 2007 baseline. The 
target was set as part of our 
involvement with the European Retail Round Table (ERRT). 
Visit their site at: www.errt.org
ENERGY  EFFICIENCY 
PERFORMANCE  2010
We are pleased to report that across 
all H&M stores the energy use per square metre has been reduced by  
8 percent between 2007 and 2010. This shows that the addition of newer stores that follow our environmental design guidelines help us achieve considerable per square metre energy 
savings over our older stores. 
When excluding new stores and only 
comparing stores that have been open 
since the baseline year of 2007, it is 
encouraging that we have achieved  a 5 percent reduction in energy use per square metre by the end of 2010. This shows that we are achieving  
good energy reductions from focusing 
on improved energy management, 
including in our existing stores.
LIGHTING
We are actively contributing to developments in lighting technology and look for improvements that will 
suit H&M’s needs.
In recent years, we have been  
working more closely with lighting 
manufacturers on optimising store 
lighting. One fruitful example of this 
collaboration is the dimming of sales-area lighting, which was introduced for all new stores in 
mid-2009 and has reduced sales-area 
energy use by 13 percent. This change alone has helped us reduce store energy use by around four million kilowatt-hours and CO
2-e emissions by 
approximately 1,400 tonnes in 2010.
LED lighting is a very interesting 
technology for the future and H&M has already started to use it in some 1,400 tonne 
reduction in CO2-e 
emissions in 2010 
through in-store 
lighting optimisation
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 73
applications due to clear energy 
savings and beneficial lifespan  
and maintenance characteristics.
DATA  CENTRES 
As our company grows so does our need for effective and suitable IT capacity. Data centres are significant 
energy users and we are continuously 
implementing measures to increase their energy efficiency.
During 2010, we consolidated  
several data centres and virtualised  
50 percent of our servers. During  
the process we updated our IT 
infrastructure resulting in increased 
utilisation, better performance and 
reductions in both cost and energy requirements. 
When choosing locations for new  
data centres we consider options  
for passive cooling technology,  
which takes advantage of the  
external climate to provide cooling 
with minimal energy use. 
Over the course of 2010, we have 
improved life cycle management for our IT platform as well as the recycling process for infrastructure that is at  
the end of its life. For emergency generators we have also switched 
from traditional diesel oil to a sulphur-
free, synthetic fuel made from natural gas that releases fewer emissions.
Recently, H&M received the Green 
Data Centre of the Year Award 2010 
from Swedish IT experts, Coromatic. 
Visit their site at: www.coromatic.se
TRANSPORT
The size and geographical spread of 
our business requires different means of transport in various parts of the 
world. Our challenge is that, as our 
business grows, our transportation needs will increase further and we need to meet these needs with  
limited use of natural resources  
and as few emissions as possible.
Transporting with less impact on the 
environment involves working with 
environmentally sound transport 
companies and switching to rail or  
sea transport where possible and increasing our transport efficiency.In 2010, CO
2-e emissions from 
transport increased 31 percent year-on-year. This increase is the 
largest contributor to the increase in 
total emissions seen in 2010, and has particularly been driven by a large increase in emissions from airfreight. This increase in air transport was 
mainly due to instability in our 
production markets created by reduced capacity at our suppliers.
SHIFTING  MODES  
OF TRANSPORT
For a number of years we have focused on shifting to more environmentally conscious modes of transport. In 
Europe, we are increasingly shifting 
from road to rail when moving goods from Turkey, an important sourcing market, to our European planning markets. The table below shows 
progress in making this shift to date 
and this will continue in 2011 and 2012.An even more positive change has been taking place in transport from 
Turkey to our Asian sales markets, 
where the aim is to shift from air transport to ocean carriers. Airfreight was still used for the smaller Japanese and Korean markets in 2010, while 
ships accounted for 85 percent of 
transport to China and 99 percent  
to Hong Kong, our two largest sales markets in Asia.
COLLABORATING  WITH 
TRANSPORT  PROVIDERS 
As we don’t own any transport facilities, influencing our transport partners to improve their 
environmental performance is  
an important part of our work.  
For many years we placed our own 
environmental requirements on transport service providers. However, 
we believe that environmental 
requirements that are adopted by a wider group of stakeholders have a better chance of achieving a positive 
impact. We are therefore actively 
involved in collaborations to develop and promote common standards in transport industries.BE CLIMATE  SMART
Planning   
markets  Share of 
(Europe)  rail freight
  2009  2010
Central  25%  23% 
 
 
 
East  48%  51% 
 
 
 
 
South  40%  75% 
 
  
UK 0% 38%(Germany,  
Austria,  
Netherlands,  
Slovenia)
(Poland, 
Finland, 
Russia, Czech 
Republic, 
Slovakia)
(Belgium, 
France,  
Italy,  
Greece)Transport of our 
goods stands for 
43.3%
of our greenhouse 
gas emissions
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 74
 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010SMART WAY 
SmartWay is a program run by the  
US Environmental Protection Agency 
(EPA) that offers evaluation and 
certification of the environmental 
performance of road carriers. All SmartWay Partners are recognised  
for their commitment to reducing emissions in their fleets. In 2010, 
around 90 percent of our core road 
carriers in the US and Canada were registered as SmartWay partners,  
up from 70 percent in 2007. 
Of these carriers, 70 percent have 
achieved the highest SmartWay evaluation score. This score demonstrates the best environmental 
performance and recognises carriers 
using most of the commercially available fuel saving strategies and evaluating emerging technologies.  
For 2011, we aim for all our core 
carriers to be SmartWay partners. 
Read more about SmartWay at: 
www.epa.gov/smartwayWAYAHEAD
Working in collaboration with members of the European Retail Round Table (ERRT) we have 
developed a tool for evaluating 
European truck carriers’ environmental performance.  
The tool is named WayAhead  
and starting in 2010 we have used  
it to communicate our minimum requirements for transport service providers, and for evaluating their environmental performance. 
Our minimum requirements for 
transport providers in Europe now include: –  At least 70 percent of truck carriers’ 
drivers must have received training 
in fuel-efficient driving
–  Trucks carrying H&M goods must not be more than 10 years old
–  All nominated and potential truck 
service providers must have a CO
2 
reduction target that is accompanied 
with an action and follow-up plan.So far, only some of our European  
core carriers are registered in the WayAhead database. We will continue 
to roll out our new minimum 
requirements among our carriers and aim for all carriers to be registered in the database during 2011.
Together with a group of other 
companies, we have also started looking into the possibility of setting up a programme in Europe similar to 
the SmartWay programme from the 
US Environmental Protection Agency. We strongly believe in the concept and feel there is a need for such a programme in Europe; this work will 
continue in 2011. The future 
implementation of such a programme in Europe would be at the expense  
of the ERRT WayAhead initiative we currently promote in Europe. 
Read more about WayAhead at: 
www.way-ahead.orgCLEAN  SHIPPING  PROJECT 
The Clean Shipping Project aims  
to improve the environmental performance of the shipping industry. 
We have been part of the Clean 
Shipping Network for a number  
of years and continue to work on developing the Clean Shipping Index and promoting its use amongst  
our carriers.
The Clean Shipping Index monitors  
the environmental performance of 
maritime transport service providers 
worldwide. Service providers enter vessel-specific data into a database, which creates a score that transport buyers can use when purchasing 
transport services. Originally limited  
to Sweden, the Index was launched 
Europe-wide in 2010.BE CLIMATE  SMART
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 75
During 2010, we made it a minimum 
requirement for our six core carriers to have their fleets registered in the 
Clean Shipping Index and we achieved 
100 percent compliance with this by the end of the year. For 2011, we aim  
to have our five largest sub-carriers registered. Also in 2011, together with 
the other Network partners, we aim  
to develop a method for thirdparty 
verification of the data submitted. 
In 2010, the Clean Shipping Project 
was awarded ‘Green Initiative of the Year’ at the Sustainable Shipping Awards held in London. At the same event, three of our six core shipping 
carriers were among the five 
nominated for ‘Sustainable shipping operator of the year’. One of them, APL, won the award. 
Read more about the Clean  
Shipping Project at:
www.cleanshippingproject.seBUSINESS TRAVEL
As a growing company with a presence in 38 countries, business travel is required. We try, however,  
to minimise emissions from business travel and have a clear policy in  
place that considers a number of environmental aspects. These include:–  Each trip must be well justified and 
cannot be replaced, for instance,  
by phone or web conference
–  When choosing the place of a 
meeting, the distance travelled by all 
attendees and the accessibility by 
public transport must be considered
–  Appropriate means of transport shall be used:–   Trains should be used for all 
journeys of less than 600 km  
if sensible
–   Public transportation should be 
used rather than taxis when this is available, safe and time permitting
–  Colleagues should always share cars wherever possible. 
Compared to 2009, business travel emissions fell 16 percent relative to 
sales in 2010. PROMOTING IMPROVEMENTS  
IN OUR  VALUE  CHAIN
As reported in 2009, we funded  
a study by Business for Social 
Responsibility (BSR) to investigate the 
carbon impact of our products from a 
life cycle perspective. The results of the study clearly showed that carbon intensity is the highest during the user phase of garments, followed by the 
raw material production and the 
manufacturing process.
WORKING  WITH  SUPPLIERS  
TO REDUCE  EMISSIONS
To broaden the scope of our work on reducing carbon emissions to include these stages of our products’ life 
cycle, we have started working with 
our first-tier manufacturing suppliers. The BSR study indicates that the emissions from the cutting and sewing phase alone are on the same scale  
as the emissions from transport and retail that we have reported for several years.BE CLIMATE  SMART
Poor energy efficiency and high carbon intensity in our suppliers’ manufacturing units have an adverse 
effect on the environment and pose  
a number of business risks. These 
include reputational risks, reduced competitiveness from costs linked to energy prices and carbon regulation, 
and potential disruptions to 
production from stress on national energy systems as well as climate change impacts.
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 76
From 2010-2012 we will focus on 
100-120 supplier factories globally. These will represent all major H&M 
production markets and an important 
share of our total production. The aim is to increase their energy efficiency and reduce carbon intensity while at the same time learning how we can 
develop the initiative on a larger  
scale and set greenhouse gas 
emissions targets in our supply  
chain beyond 2012.
Participating factories will be required 
to monitor their energy use and greenhouse gas emissions and share the results with us. Unless they have 
recently participated in a similar 
program, they will also need to  
enrol in a regional Supplier Energy Efficiency Program (SEEP) that we are setting up in partnership with various 
organisations and that will run for a 
period of 6-12 months. 
SUPPLIER  ENERGY  EFFICIENCY 
PROGRAMMES  (SEEP)
During 2010 we have worked with a variety of partners to set up energy efficiency support programmes in a number of our production countries. 
The programmes connect supplier 
factories with energy service companies that will review the scope for efficiency gains and provide solutions, as well as training, 
workshops, and support for 
developing action plans and follow-up.
Based on initial factory reviews we  
see a potential for energy reductions 
of up to 20 percent at participating 
factories, at the same time as building suppliers’ knowledge and in-house expertise on evaluating energy use and realising reduction opportunities.
To test out their functionality, we 
piloted three programmes in 2010, two in China and one in Bangladesh. 
CHINA
 In the Shanghai region  we joined 
a programme run by BSR, which 
covered eight factories supplying 
H&M in addition to factories supplying 
other brands.
 In Guangdong we teamed up with 
EHS Academy and developed a programme that involves six of our 
supplier factories in this region.
BANGLADESH
In Bangladesh  we teamed up with 
GTZ and five of our suppliers to take 
part in an energy saving programme.
The results from these three 
programmes will guide our approach to expanding the energy efficiency initiative in our supply chain during 
2011. We foresee a mix of programmes 
and workshops depending on the production market and the type of factory, but all will aim to deliver the 
same results in terms of energy 
reductions.
Our goal is to engage 100-120 supplier 
factories by the end of 2012 and to 
follow-up on their improvements.
USER PHASE
The greatest share of an H&M 
product’s lifetime energy consumption comes from customers’ washing 
garments at home. To make it easier 
for our customers we label our products with the highest permitted BE CLIMATE  SMART
temperature for washing.  
Choosing to wash at a lower washing temperatures, however, saves energy, 
and washing at 40°C uses around half 
as much energy as washing at 60°C, and most detergents wash just as  
well at this lower temperature.
We do, however, recommend that 
heavily soiled clothes and underwear are always washed at the highest temperature allowed. We provide tips 
about how customers can consider 
the environment when caring for their clothes on our website and from spring 2011 will also communicate through our stores. 
Read more about tips on conscious 
garment care at:  
www.hm.com/care
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 77
 CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 77HOW OUR  WOR k 
AGAINST  CLIMATE 
CHANGE  EVOLVED
  ACHIEVING  
OUR TARGET
We	fulfilled	our	target	in	
2009	and	instead	of	10%,	
we	achieved	 reductions	
of	32%.4
  MEASURING 
IMPACTS
We	started	measuring	 and	
reporting	 on	the	carbon	
emissions	 resulting	 from	
our	own	operations	 and	
the	transport	 of	our		
goods	in	1999.1
  SETTING  
OUR SIGHTS
In	2005,	we	set	up	our	
first	target	to	reduce	
carbon	emissions	 relative	
to	sales	by	10%	by	2009,	
compared	 to	2004	as		
a	baseline.2  MAKING  
COMMITMENTS
In	2008,	in	line	with	the	
ERRT	declaration	 on	
energy	efficiency	 and	
renewable	 energy,	we	
committed	 to	reducing	
energy	use	per	store	
m2	by	20%	and	to	using	
a	minimum	 of	20%	
renewable	 energy,	both		
by	2020.3  BE CLIMATE  
SMART
Consequently,	 with	our	
2010	‘climate	smart’	
commitment	 we’ve	
expanded	 our	scope		
and	are	working	to		
inspire	others	to	reduce	
their	emissions.8
  CRADLE  
TO GRAVE
As	a	result,	in	2010	we		
initiated	our	Supplier	
Energy	Efficiency	 	
Programme	 in	order	to	
reduce	emissions	 in	the	
production	 process.	
We	are	also	working	
to	increase	 customer	
awareness	 on	emission-
reducing	 actions	in	the	
user	phase.9
  RAISING  
THE BAR
As	a	result,	in	2009	we	
developed	 a	new	target,	
committing	 us	to	reducing	
emissions	 by	5%	each	year	
throughout	 2010	–	2012,	
with	a	rolling	baseline.5  A MORE HOLISTIC 
APPROACH
With	the	development	
of	this	new	target,	we	
shifted	our	approach	
to	reducing	 more	
greenhouse	 gases	than	
just	carbon,	now	also	
including	 methane	 and	
nitrous	oxide.6
  A LIFE CYCLE  
PERSPECTIVE
Also	in	2009,	we	
conducted	 a	study	
together	 with	BSR	
evaluating	 the	climate	
impacts	of	garments	 from	
a	life	cycle	perspective.	7
Climate change is one of the 
major threats of our time.  
At H&M we are committed to 
acting climate smart and we 
increasingly work to reduce emissions beyond our own operations. Here is our journey  
so far.
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 78REDUCE , REUSE , 
RECYCLE5
Waste is an important issue in our stores and distribution 
centres. Transport and product packaging, as well as shopping bags, shop fittings and construction waste from building new stores are some of the sources. By committing to reduce, reuse and recycle, we aim to minimise our waste impacts  
as much as possible. Our ultimate aim is to send zero  
waste to landfill.Since 2010 all our 
standard consumer 
bags are made of 
recycled materials
85% of all hangers that were not reused  
in store were recycled after use1,600 tonnes of recycled materials  
used to create new garmentsIN THIS  SECTION 
Reduce, reuse, recycle ......................................... 79 
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 79
 CONTENTSPRODUCT PACKAGING
We are constantly striving to find 
better packaging solutions that use fewer resources and cause less waste. 
With this in mind, we developed 
Environmental Guidelines for Packaging in 2010 to help us make more sustainable choices when designing product packaging. The 
Guidelines cover the entire packaging 
chain, from raw material selection to production and end-of-life. Some of the main components are:
–  Keeping the amount of material in 
our packaging to a minimum without compromising its function
– Using recycled materials
–  Using material from certified sources, such as FSC-certified paper and board
–  Using single materials and avoiding mixing materials, such as laminates 
or stickers, to improve recyclability
–  Choosing standard packaging 
shapes to minimise waste in production
–  Designing packaging to optimise 
space-use making it more efficient 
to transport –  Making packaging easy to separate 
so that it can easily be recycled  
or reused.
RECYCLED CARRIER BAGS
During 2010, we switched to recycled 
material for all of our standard plastic consumer bags. They are now made 
from 50 percent post-consumer and 
50 percent pre-consumer recycled polyethylene (PE).
By using recycled PE, we reduce the 
demand for virgin oil and increase the 
demand for recycled plastic waste, which supports the recycling economy. When producing recycled PE it takes 
only 50 percent of the energy required 
to produce virgin plastic and it can also be recycled again. Recycled plastic has the same durability as virgin plastic and the bag can therefore be reused by  
a consumer many times before it is finally recycled.
Our plastic bags are available in five 
different sizes, allowing us to give the 
best sized bag for the garments sold. 
We provide packing guidelines to advise our employees in-store which bag to use in order to minimise unnecessary plastic use.
We also sell reusable bags made from 
different textile materials in our stores, which can be used as an alternative to plastic bags.
TRANSPORT PACKAGING
We have guidelines for the transport packaging that is used to send our garments from production countries 
to our distribution centres. The 
guidelines cover both the quality  
and environmental requirements  
of the packaging.
For several years we have been 
successful in minimising the use of single garment packaging when transporting products from producers 
to our distribution centres. When we 
send the garments from our distribution centres to our stores, we use transport boxes that are reusable and these are sent back to distribution 
centres to be used again. With these 
two actions, we have almost eliminated waste from transport packaging ending up in our stores. REDUCE , REUSE , RECYCLE
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 80
IN-STORE AND DISTRIBUTION 
CENTRE WASTE
We aim to minimise all waste types 
that are generated in our stores and distribution centres.
Waste management regulations and 
recycling opportunities vary from country to country, and sometimes even from region to region within a 
country. Some stores use the recycling 
facilities offered by shopping centres or landlords and others have separate waste contracts, or return waste to 
our distribution centres.
This broad variation of situations 
poses a challenge; however, our general requirement is that all waste 
should be reused or recycled, such as 
transport packaging and hangers. These requirements are outlined in our internal Waste and Recycling Guide, which is part of our ‘Store 
Book’ that guides all store employees. 
The principles and priorities in the Guide are not limited to stores and apply equally to warehouses  
and offices.Our environmental guidelines for waste also provide direction on how  
to handle hazardous waste, such as fluorescent tube lights, batteries, electronic equipment, glues and  
other chemicals.
RECYCLING OF HANGERS
We use a lot of hangers at H&M. However, almost all of the hangers  
are reused in stores. When hangers 
cannot be reused they are sent for 
recycling and our recycling rate for 2010 was 85 percent, up from 79 percent in 2009.
During 2010, we also started to focus 
on reducing the total number of hangers we use by cutting down on hanger types. Ten different types have 
been removed from our range of 
hangers and in 2011 two more will be phased out. These will be replaced with a new multi-function hanger.
RECYCLING WASTE FROM STORE 
CONSTRUCTION
We have had standard requirements 
for store construction and store fittings for several years. These state the materials that can and cannot be used from an environmental and 
health perspective and suppliers that 
refurbish or build our stores must follow these requirements.
Building or rebuilding stores can 
create a lot of waste. Much of this, 
however, can be recycled and in many cases lead to cost reductions. To make sure that we make the best of these opportunities throughout our 
operations, we have developed 
further guidance for all our sales countries and will begin to demand recycling reports for our construction 
projects from 2011 onwards. Less resource use and less waste with leaner construction.
During 2010, we trialled new methods 
to make the construction of new and refurbished stores leaner and more 
efficient. The initial results from the 
trials show that we can complete new store interiors in around 10 days at the same time as improving quality. With the new approaches, we can reduce 
impacts in several ways:
–  Less impact on customers and 
colleagues through noise or dust 
–  Reduced construction costs and 
loss of sales
–  Higher recycling rates of old 
materials
–  More efficient use of building 
materials and less scrap waste.
Hanger recycling went up 6% points.REDUCE , REUSE , RECYCLE
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 81
MAIL ORDER 
All of our mail order packaging boxes 
are made of cardboard with at least 60 percent recycled content. 
RECYCLED FABRICS
We are using more and more recycled materials for our garments. In 2010,  
we used 1,600 tonnes of recycled 
wool, recycled cotton and recycled 
polyester. We also sold about 65,000 accessories made out of recycled tetrapacs. Recycled polyester is often generated from PET bottles. Recycled 
wool and cotton usually reuse  
textile remnants. In early 2011, we 
transformed cut remnants from the production of our 2010 collection 
designed by the French fashion  
house Lanvin into a new, fashionable 
collection, which we called the  
Waste Collection . REDUCE , REUSE , RECYCLE1,600
tonnes recycled materials 
turned into new garments
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 82
 CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 82Polyester fleece is a soft, warm, 
wool-like material used for a variety of garments across H&M’s 
range. Here’s how it can be made 
from recycled PET, reducing energy and resource, as well  
as waste.HOW  PET 
BOTTLES  BECAME 
fASHIONABLE 
GARMENTS
1
COLLECTION  
AND SORTING
Containers	are		
collected	from	
recycling,	sorted,	
sterilised,	crushed	into	
chips	and	melted	at	
270°C.
2
SPINNING 
AND STRETCHING
The	melted	polyester	
is	forced	through	
a	sieve-like	device,	cooled	and	spun	to	form	fibres	 called	tow.	Then	it	is	stretched	
and	crimped	for	strengh.
 3
 TOW IS STRETCHED 
AND STRENGTHENED
The	tow	is	pulled	
through	the	rollers	of	
a	drawing	machine	to	
stretch	and	strengthen	
it	before	being	cut	into	
short	pieces	of	fibres.
4
 CARDING AND 
SPINNING
A	carding	machine	
aligns	the	fibres	that	
are	then	spun	into	yarn.
5
 DYEING AND  
KNITTING
Then	the	yarn	is	dyed		
and	knitted	or	woven	
into	a	fabric.
6
GARMENT 
 MANUFACTURE
The	fabric	is	cut	and	sewn	according	
to	a	pattern	drawn	up	by		one	of	our	designers.
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 83USE NA TURAL 
RESOURCES 
RESPONSIBL Y
6
Our business depends on natural resources. Increasing 
scarcity of resources like water highlights how important it is for all of us to use natural resources responsibly, considering the needs of both present and future generations. To operate as a sustainable business, we are committed to conserving water, soil, air and species. 
All of the paper used in our 
mail order catalogues is 
flower eco-labelled
Of cotton targeted to come 
from more sustainable sources by 202075% of non-drinking water used in our 
biggest 
distribution centre comes 
from rainwaterIN THIS  SECTION 
Raw materials ..................................................... 84 
Water .................................................................. 93 
Paper and store interiors ..................................... 99 
50 million litres of water 
saved in denim production
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 84
INTERVIEW WITH HENRIK LAMPA,  
CSR MANAGER PRODUCTS 
 
 WHAT  PART  OF H&M’ S 
OPERATIONS  USES  THE  MOST 
NATURAL  RESOURCES ? 
Our biggest natural resource use is  
in the production of our garments. 
Cotton is the raw material we use  
the most. It is a renewable resource, but it comes with a number of challenges, including the use of chemicals and water intensive processes. We also use some 
synthetic fabrics. These fabrics are 
usually derived from oil, which is a non-renewable resource; but these are well suited for recycling.
WHAT  DO YOU  DO TO USE 
NATURAL  RESOURCES  MORE 
RESPONSIBLY ?
We started our work to improve resource use in the cotton supply chain several years ago. For some 
years, we have been using more  
and more certified organic cotton and introduced products made  
from recycled materials. We have 
also been very actively involved in the Better Cotton Initiative. Now,  
we have set the firm target that all our cotton should come from sustainable sources. Additionally,  
we will continue to increase the  
use of recycled fibres, like recycled 
polyester and wool. 
WHERE  DO YOU  SEE  THE 
GREATEST  POTENTIAL  FOR 
FUTURE  RESOURCE  SAVINGS ? 
We have just started scaling-up our 
use of recycled fabrics. I believe that this will drive further innovations and 
the future will bring many more 
opportunities for recycling. This can mean less waste and less use of natural resources; and it makes perfect business sense.RA W MATERIALSUSE NA TURAL  RESOURCES  RESPONSIBL Y
BOLD STEPS TOWARDS MORE 
SUSTAINABLE RAW MATERIALS
Raw materials like cotton can have  
a heavy impact on the environment. 
According to WWF research, it takes 
an average of 8,500 litres of water to 
grow one kilo of cotton lint, enough to make one pair of jeans. Conventional cotton can also require heavy use of pesticides and fertilisers, which can 
cause pollution and pose health risks 
to farmers.
Although we do not source any raw 
materials directly, we are committed 
to working actively to reduce their impacts. H&M’s aim is for all cotton  
in our range to come from sustainable sources by 2020 at the latest.  
That means sources that show consideration for people or the environment and whose impact is  
less than the current impact of conventional cotton. Better Cotton, 
organic and recycled cotton are types 
of cotton that we see as the keys to achieving this target.
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 85
 –RA W MATERIALS
BETTER  COTTON  INITIATIVE
H&M is actively involved in the Better 
Cotton Initiative (BCI). The BCI is a long-term multi-stakeholder initiative 
that develops and promotes good 
farm practices, allowing more cotton to be grown while reducing water and chemical use and protecting both working conditions and biodiversity.  
The system has established  
minimum environmental and social requirements for cotton growing. 
The BCI is not a labelling scheme,  
nor will it provide Fairtrade or organic 
cotton. It aims to make all cotton more sustainable. It is a multi-stakeholder initiative that includes NGOs like WWF, 
clothing companies, cotton producer 
groups and trade and industry bodies. We have been involved with the BCI since its inception in 2004 and are  
an elected member of the 
organisation’s council. 
We regard the BCI as the key initiative 
to help us reach our goal to source all cotton in our range from sustainable 
sources at the latest by 2020. To  
assist the transition from trial to implementation phase, we will invest 
EUR 500,000 in 2011 to support farmer training in the BCI system.  
H&M and other project members have committed to using the Better Cotton from the 2009–2012 implementation phase as well, even though the minimum requirements might not yet 
be met. The BCI follows a strategic 
implementation plan until 2012, after which the system will be reviewed. It follows 10 major goals to be achieved during this period. Among them is the aim to produce 300,000 tonnes of cotton lint as Better Cotton, in Brazil, 
India, Pakistan and West and Central 
Africa. The first cotton from this programme was harvested in autumn 2010 and we have worked closely with our suppliers in order to learn how 
practically to integrate Better Cotton 
into our products.
68,000 cotton farmers where educated on better farming practices through the BCI.USE NA TURAL  RESOURCES  RESPONSIBL Y
During 2010, the BCI, through its implementing partners WWF and Solidaridad, trained around 68,000 
farmers in Pakistan, India and Mali.  
The aim is to train at least 150,000 
farmers in 2011.
More information about the BCI can be 
found at: www.bettercotton.org
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 86According to Textile Exchange, 
H&M was the 5th largest user  
of certified organic cotton 
worldwide in 2009. Since then, 
we have increased the amount  
by another 77%, to more than 15,000 tonnes. Using organic cotton alongside Better Cotton 
and recycled cotton is part of our 
long-term strategy towards using only sustainable cotton by 2020.
  FIRST TRY IN  
THE 1990 s
		We	launched 	an	
organic	cotton	
collection 	called	
“Nature	Calling”.	
Garments 	were	mostly	
uncoloured 	and	after	a	
while	sales	tapered	off.	1
  MORE THAN 15,000 
TONNES IN 2010
		Growth	continues	and	our	Garden	Collection	shows	that	organic		or	recycled	fabrics,		high	fashion,	and	commercial	success	work	very	well	together.	6
  NEW T ARGETS  FOR 2020
		We	have	set	a	target		to	only	use	cotton	from	sustainable	sources;	by	that	we	mean	organic	cotton,	recycled	cotton	and	Better	Cotton.7HOW H&M 
BECAME  ONE  
Of THE  WORLD ’S 
BIGGEST  USERS  Of 
ORGANIC  COTTON
  A SECOND SHOT  IN 2004
		We	started	over	with	 20	tonnes,	blending	it	 into	selected	garments	to	test	new	ways	of	 working,	without	compromising
	on	 designs.2
  2007 – OUR FIRST WHOLE COLLECTION 
		In	spring,	we	offered		 our	first	,full	range	of	 garments	made	with	 organic	cotton	in	all	 departments	at	H&M.3
  BUILDING  ON SUCCESS
		By	the	end	of	2007	we	 had	purchased	2,000	 tonnes.	We	made	this	 the	baseline	of	our	 target	to	increase	use	 by	50%	each	year.	4
  HIGHLY RANKED  
IN 2009
		Our	efforts	made		
H&M	the	5th	largest	
user	of	organic	cotton		
in	the	world	in	2009.	
Source:	Textile	
Exchange.5
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 87
RA W MATERIALS
ORGANIC  COTTON
We started our work with organic 
cotton back in 2004. Since then we have continually increased our use of 
independently certified organic cotton 
and seen growing customer demand. In 2010, we reached 15,000 tonnes, which makes H&M one of the largest users of organic cotton in the world 
(accroding to Textile Exchange 2009 
Organic Market Report H&M was ranked 5 based on a use of 8,500 tonnes in 2009).
Organic cultivation reduces the 
potential negative impact of cotton  
on local water quality and biodiversity.
Grown in Turkey, India and China, all 
our organic cotton is independently certified by accredited certification bodies (Control Union and IMO). Additionally, all factories handling 
organic cotton products are certified 
according to the relevant standards, OE 100 and OE Blended. All our products with organic cotton have a transaction certificate (TC) issued by  
a third party certifier (IMO and Control Union), which verifies the content of the organic fibre.Organic cotton is used in all our 
clothing divisions (men, women, 
teenagers, children and home).  
We offer both 100 percent organic cotton clothes and blended organic 
garments containing a mix of  
organic and conventional cotton. 
Garments are labelled accordingly  
to help our customers to make an informed choice. 
We have set a target to increase 
organic cotton use by at least 50 percent every year until 2013, based on the previous year’s target. The 
baseline for this staged increase is  
our 2008 target of 2,000 tonnes. 
Increasing by 50 percent each year from this level will mean that our target is to reach a total of 15,000 
tonnes by 2013, a figure we have in 
fact already achieved. While we are pleased to have met this target early, we are realistic about the fact that  
we cannot sustain growth in the use  
of organic cotton at the rates witnessed in recent years (77 percent in 2010 and 183 percent in 2009).  
This is because our own growth has 
outstripped the growth in supply of organic cotton. Therefore, we have 
opted to retain our target. 
Read more about organic cotton at:  
www.hm.com/environment or
www.textileexchange.org
TRANSITIONAL  COTTON
Since 2008, we have made efforts  
to include transitional cotton into our 
products in order to support farmers 
in the fragile phase of transition from 
conventional to organic farming. As announced in our targets for 2009,  
we booked 250 tonnes of transitional cotton in China and agreed on related 
conditions. Unfortunately, as a result 
of unforeseen issues with our supplier, this agreement could not be fulfilled. Given these issues, we have decided 
to focus on our goal to use only  
cotton from more sustainable  
sources by 2020.USE NA TURAL  RESOURCES  RESPONSIBL Y
H&M is a member of Textile 
Exchange (formerly Organic Exchange), a non-profit 
organisation that is committed  
to expanding organic agriculture, 
with a specific focus on increasing the production and use of organically grown fibres such 
as cotton. In May 2010, H&M 
hosted the ‘sustainable fashion seminar’ held by Textile Exchange, together with Made-by. We used more organic  
cotton than ever before –  
more than 15,000 tonnes, making 
H&M one of the largest users of this material in the world.
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 88
ORGANIC  COTTON 
Organic cotton is cotton that, 
among other things, has been 
grown without the use of chemical 
fertilisers or pesticides. All organic cotton used for H&M products has been independently certified according to the relevant Textile Exchange standards and are 
verified by a Transaction  
Certificate (TC).RECYCLED  POLYESTE R 
Recycled polyester is polyester 
made from PET-bottles or textile 
waste. Independent third party 
certification usually follows the Global Recycling Standard (GRS) developed by the organisation Textile Exchange. ORGANIC  LINEN  
Organic linen is linen that has been grown without the use of hazardous 
chemicals. Organic linen used for 
H&M products is independently certified according to the GOTS-standard and comes with full transaction certification (TC).RECYCLED  POLYAMIDE 
Recycled polyamide is polyamide made from fishing nets or textile 
waste. Independent third party 
certification usually follows the Global Recycling Standard (GRS) developed by Textile Exchange.RECYCLED  
AND  ORGANIC 
MATERIALS  AT H&M RA W MATERIALSUSE NA TURAL  RESOURCES  RESPONSIBL Y
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 89
RECYCLED  
AND  ORGANIC 
MATERIALS  AT H&M 
(CONTINUED )RA W MATERIALSUSE NA TURAL  RESOURCES  RESPONSIBL Y
RECYCLED  COTTON  
Recycled cotton is cotton made 
from textile remnants in production. 
Independent third party 
certification usually follows the Global Recycling Standard (GRS) developed by Textile Exchange.TENCEL® 
Tencel® is a silk-like, renewable 
material which has been produced 
with minimised environmental 
impact out of cellulose.  
Tencel® is a brand owned by 
fibre manufacturer, Lenzing.  
The generic name for the material  
is Lyocell. H&M considers only 
Tencel® manufactured by Lenzing 
as a more sustainable material.RECYCLED  WOOL  
Recycled wool is wool made from 
worn-out woollen garments and 
remnants of fabric. Independent 
third party certification usually follows the Global Recycling Standard (GRS) developed by Textile Exchange.
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 90
RA W MATERIALSUSE NA TURAL  RESOURCES  RESPONSIBL Y
OTHER  MORE  
SUSTAINABLE  MATERIALS
We are using and continuously trying 
out other new more sustainable materials in our products. These 
include different recycled and  
organic materials as well as Tencel
®. 
Although the use of these fibres is  
an investment in the future, we have seen increasing amounts used in  
2010. Our use of recycled wool, 
recycled cotton and recycled polyester amounted to 1,600 tons. 
We also sold more than 65,000 
accessories made of recycled tetrapac. This will continue with the launch of the Conscious Collection  
in spring 2011. Read more about the use of more sustainable materials  
at www.hm.com/materials . 
MATERIALS FROM  
ANIMALS AND WOOD
Our products should be manufactured in a way that is environmentally and socially sustainable. As part of this, 
animal welfare and the protection of 
endangered species is important to us. For several years, we have been committed to not using genuine  fur in our collections and to not  
testing our cosmetic products on animals. H&M is a Fur Free Alliance-
listed retailer.
You can read more about the  
Fur Free Alliance at:  
www.infurmation.org
In 2009, we updated our product 
policy and added, amongst others, stricter requirements on angora wool, 
merino wool, use of animal skin and 
feathers and downs. 
Accordingly, during 2010 we began 
auditing angora farms. We 
implemented a self-assessment 
programme for all farms supplying  
into the H&M value chain and a traceability system to connect farms supplying angora fibres to our 
suppliers. We aim to provide detailed 
results in next year’s report, but the initial findings appear to be positive.
You can read the full policy at:  
www.hm.com/gb/
corporateresponsibility/aboutourproducts/productpolicy__productpolicy.nhtmlIMPROVING TRACEABILITY  
OF COTTON
Our audit programme focuses on  
all of our first-tier suppliers and their subcontractors, such as washing or 
dyeing units. But we rarely have any 
direct influence on raw material production such as cotton. To ensure that the cotton included in our fashion meets sustainability standards, we put 
a lot of effort into making the entire 
textile value chain more traceable and transparent. Co-operating with others is one way of achieving improvements.
HISTORIC  FUTURES  
STRINGS  SOFTWARE
We are piloting web-based Strings software from Historic Futures, which aims to enable improved traceability 
and transparency throughout our 
value chain. Currently being tested with six fixed supply chains in Bangladesh and China, the system requires suppliers at each stage of  
the chain to input data on exactly  
how much material, fabric or finished pieces they have passed on to the next stage. The pilot project will run from 
November 2010 to May 2011. It started 
by focusing on educating each factory to use the software and began tracking all deliveries from 1 January 2011.
The aim is to achieve full traceability 
on all H&M orders throughout the projects and to evaluate Strings’ usability and the reliability of the 
collected data. The project gives us 
the opportunity to trial software to find out if it is scalable and whether  
it has the potential to be rolled-out more widely.65,000
accessories made  
of recycled tetrapac
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 91
 CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 91STAGES  Of 
CONVENTIONAL 
COTTON  SUPPLY
The supply chain of today’s 
conventional cotton can be  
very complex. We work hard  
to increase our influence on  
this stage of our value chain and improve traceability. Our target for 2020 is only to use more sustainable cotton such  
as organic cotton, Better  
Cotton or recycled cotton –  
all fully traceable.
  MIDDLEMEN
  In	some	countries	
such	as	India,	
middlemen	 buy	the	
cotton	seed	from		
the	farmers.3
  COMPRESSION,  
OR ‘GINNING’
  The	seed	cotton	now	
gets	compressed	 into	
bales	–	the	so-called	
ginning.	First	seed	and	
lint	are	separated,	 then	
the	seeds	go	through	
dryers	to	reduce	
moisture	 before	being	
compressed	 into	bales.4
  COTTON  
PRODUCTION
  Organic	cotton	is	grown	
without	the	use	of	any	
chemical	 fertilisers	
or	pesticides.	 Better	
Cotton	limits	the	use	
of	both,	which	in	turn,	
helps	to	reduce	water	
use,	thereby	increasing	
profitability	 for	farmers.2
  CONVENTIONAL  
COTTON SEEDS
  These	days,	
conventional	 cotton	
seeds	are	often	
genetically	 modified.	
These	seeds	may		
not	be	used	for		
organic	cotton.1
   SPINNING  
YARN
  Spinners	 make	yarn	out	
of	the	raw	cotton.6
  LOCAL AND  
GLOBAL TRADE
  Often	global	or	local	
traders	then	buy		
these	raw	cotton		
bales	and	sell	them		
on	to	spinners.5
  GARMENT  
MANUFACTURE
  These	fabrics	are	then	
usually	bought	by	our	
first-tier	suppliers	 to	cut	
and	sew	ready-made	
garments	 out	of	them	
using	designs	developed	
by	H&M	designers.	8
  FABRIC  
MANUFACTURE
  This	yarn	can	then	be	
bought	by	fabric	mills		
to	make	fabric.	7
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 92
COTTON  FROM  UzBEKISTAN  
 
  H&M takes a clear stand against child 
labour and does not accept underage 
workers being used anywhere in our value chain – including cotton cultivation. One of our concerns is the use of forced child labour in cotton 
cultivation in Uzbekistan. H&M will 
never accept forced and/or child labour and therefore, as long as the government of Uzbekistan continues to compel children to work in its 
cotton fields, Uzbek cotton cannot  
be an option for H&M and our  
supply chain.
Although we do not have direct 
business relations with cotton 
producers and the routes of global cotton trade are often complex,  
we seek to avoid the use of Uzbek 
cotton wherever we can. However, 
Uzbekistan is one of the largest cotton producers in the world and avoiding the use of cotton from there is a serious challenge.So, although it would not be fair to 
guarantee a boycott, H&M has taken 
several steps in order to avoid cotton from Uzbekistan. For some years,  
we have taken the approach of both influencing decision-makers in 
Uzbekistan and developing 
trustworthy tracing systems on the origin of conventional cotton in our value chain.
As announced in last year’s report,  
we moved further towards joining 
forces with other retailers and stakeholders. In 2010, we attended  
a multi-stakeholder meeting hosted  
by the Responsible Sourcing Network, a new project of As You Sow and  
the Institute for Human Rights and Business, in partnership with Anti-
Slavery International and Calvert 
Investments. More than 50 consumer brands, retailers, investors, trade associations, NGOs and trade unions came together under the theme of ‘Ending Forced Child Labour in 
Uzbekistan’s Cotton Sector’ in 
Brussels on the 7 April. Our aim was  
to deepen international co-operation towards achieving this objective.
Together with other attendees,  
we sent a letter to Uzbekistan’s 
Ambassador in Brussels encouraging them to attend the ILO conference in June 2010. H&M also contacted the 
Swedish minister of trade asking for 
this issue to be raised at the EU level. 
As our traceability systems improve, 
the absolute exclusion from our supply 
chain of producer countries that 
refuse to meet standards will become possible. Ultimately, we aim for all cotton to come from sustainable,  
fully traceable sources by 2020 at  
the latest.RA W MATERIALSUSE NA TURAL  RESOURCES  RESPONSIBL Y
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 93
H&M  
AND  WATER
Water is an important resource 
used in garment production. In 2003, we started to limit water 
pollution resulting from garment 
production. We are continually working to increase water efficiency along our value chain.
  IN THE 
 BEGINNING...
		We	started	
by		requiring	
wastewater	 treatment	
from	all	supplier	
factories	
	with	wet	processes	
	in	2003.	1
  THE BIGGER  
PICTURE
		Since	2009,	we	have	
also	collected	water	
efficiency	data	from	
relevant	supplier	
factories.	7
  SIGNING UP  
FOR CHANGE
		In	June	2008,	we	
became	a	signatory		
to	the	CEO	Water	
Mandate.5
  FIRST TESTS SHOW 
SAVING
S OF 32%		In	2009,	first	test	harvests	
of	Better	 Cotton	
showed	
32%	water	savings	
in	cotton	growing	
compared	
to	conventional	
farming	practices.8
  50 MILLION LITRES 
SAVED IN 2010
		In	2010,	we	saved		50	million	litres	of		water	in	denim	and	are	targeting	100	million	litres	in	2011.9
  £1.7m TO WATERAID SINCE 2002
		Since	2002,	H&M	has	supported	
WaterAid,	 with	donations	amounting	
to	about	 GBP	1.7	million.2
  SETTING THE 
STANDARD 
		Since	
2006,	
we	have	required	
wastewater	
	to	be	treated	
against	
	the	BSR	
standard	
	or,	if	more	
stringent,	local	
law.	4
  SPREADING OUR 
INFLUENCE
		With	our	mill		
development	 	
programme, 	since	2009	
we	have	also	monitored	
wastewater 	treatment	
at	a	growing	number	of	
fabric	mills,	which	are	
second	tier	suppliers.6
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 93
  IMPROVING  PRACTI CE
		In	2005,	we	launched	our	first	Cleaner	
Production	Programme,	aiming	to	improve	
environmental	practice	at	fabric	mills	and	vertically 	integrated	
suppliers 	with	the		help	of	40	easy-to-implement	measures.	3
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 94
As well as being needed for growing 
cotton, water plays a part in other stages of our products’ lives, including 
processing fabrics and washing 
finished products. We want to improve the way we manage water throughout our product life cycles. In June 2008, we signed the CEO Water Mandate,  
a voluntary initiative from the UN Global Compact. The mandate commits H&M to improve both our own and our suppliers’ water 
efficiency, improve wastewater  
quality and report transparently  
on our progress. 
You can read about our progress  
on the six key elements of the 
Mandate in the following pages. 
More information about the CEO Water 
Mandate can be found at:  
www.unglobalcompact.orgWATER
OUR DIRECT  OPERATIONS
Although the retail sector is a  
relatively low user of water, we still  
aim to minimise usage in our own 
operations. When building a new  
store or distribution centre, we follow 
guidelines aimed at reducing water use. This includes low-flow taps, low water-use toilets and showers with 
automatic stop functions.Our newly-built distribution centres also have rainwater utilisation systems 
for toilet flushing and maintaining lawn and garden areas. In our largest distribution centre in Hamburg, this 
generates about 75 percent of the 
non-drinking water used each year. We will incorporate the same system in a new distribution centre currently being built in Belgium. VALUE  CHAIN  AND  
WATERSHED  MANAGEMENT
The garment value chain impacts on water supply in two key ways. Firstly, the production of raw materials and 
the manufacturing process can  
both have a negative effect on  
water sources through their use  
of pesticides, fertilisers or their 
production of polluted wastewater. 
Secondly, some of our supply chain 
is located in areas facing water stress, USE NA TURAL  RESOURCES  RESPONSIBL Y
75%
of the water 
used for toilet 
flushing and 
irrigation in our biggest 
distribution 
centre comes from rainwater 
Wastewater must be treated at H&M suppliers and we monitor its quality.
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 95
such as China and India, yet our 
suppliers operations depend directly on the availability of water. 
This challenging combination of 
factors means that improving water-use practices throughout our value chain is of huge importance to us.
COTTON
Cotton is the raw material we use  
the most and it is a thirsty crop.  
H&M is very active in promoting  
more sustainable cotton cultivation. We work towards reducing water  
use in cotton cultivation through  
our affiliation with the Better  
Cotton Initiative.WATERUSE NA TURAL  RESOURCES  RESPONSIBL Y
SUPPLIER  WATER  EFFICIENCY
We monitor the water efficiency of supplier factories (see graph to the right). In 2010 we collected data from 
326 factories. We prioritise our work 
to improve supplier water efficiency with those suppliers located in areas where water is considered scarce, as defined by the World Business Council 
for Sustainable Development.SUPPLIER  WATER  EFFICIENCY  2010 vs 2009
Water use in litres for one kg of products
LITRES / 
KG 
 
 
  
<100l 
100-200l 
>200l
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
71%
72%
16%
20%
13%
9%
2009  2010
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 96
SUPPLIER  WASTEWATER 
QUALITY
Since 2006 we have required 
suppliers who have wet processes such as dyeing to avoid environmental 
damage by treating their wastewater. 
Wastewater quality in our supply chain has to meet quality levels defined by Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) or relevant local laws,  
depending on which is stricter.  
These requirements form part  
of our supplier audit programme.
We focus on key water quality 
measures such as organic and chemical pollution levels and suspended solids within the ww –  
TSS (total suspended solids), BOD 
(biological oxygen demand) and COD 
(chemical oxygen demand). The graph to the right shows the share of suppliers in the lowest threshold for each of these indicators, against the 
BSR standard. We are happy to see 
further progress for both TSS and COD, with almost all our suppliers  
now reaching the lowest threshold. There has been a slight decrease  
in BOD and we will monitor developments for this indicator.WATERUSE NA TURAL  RESOURCES  RESPONSIBL Y
SUPPLIER  WASTEWATER  QUALITY 
Percentage of suppliers within the lowest treshold 
 
    
TSS 
BOD 
COD
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
59.8%
58.5%
76.3%
82.8%
61.7%
73.4%
78.8%
77.8%
83.7%
90.6%
93.3%
96.6%
2007  2008  2009  2010
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 97
WATER  CONSCIOUS  DENIM  SAVES  30%  
 
 
 
Rinse-washing denim garments to 
achieve a desired finish is a water-
intensive process. Reducing this 
water use was the target of a pilot project in 2009 with three suppliers in Bangladesh, two in Pakistan and two in southern China. 
These showed that process 
optimisations can deliver water savings of up to 30%. In 2010,  
we produced denim following  
this approach on a greater scale  
and achieved water savings of approximately 50 million litres relative to previous production 
methods. As a result, we plan to 
introduce this technique for all  
our denim suppliers in Bangladesh  
and will investigate how it can be used in the washing process for 
other products.USE NA TURAL  RESOURCES  RESPONSIBL Y
WATER
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 98
W ATER
COLLECTIVE  ACTION
Consistent with our approach  
towards sustainability, actions taken 
collectively with other companies and 
organisations can help us to adress 
issues that we cannot influence strongly enough on our own. Collective actions can promote better practice not just in our own supply chain 
operations, but also throughout  
the industry.
 
BETTER  COTTON  INITIATIVE
The Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) is  
at the core of our initiatives to tackle 
excessive water use in cotton 
production. Early trials show that the 
Better Cotton system can provide water savings of up to 32 percent  
over standard growing methods. 
Read more about our work with the 
Better Cotton Initiative on page 49.CLEANER  PRODUCTION 
PROGRAMME
The production of the fabric can also be very water intense and involve the use of chemicals. Fabric mills are 
second-tier suppliers with which  
H&M has no direct business relations. 
Through our Mill Development Programme (see page 85), we have 
started auditing some selected mills. 
However, a voluntary approach to 
encourage more fabric mills  
to improve their environmental performance is still needed to  
extend good practice.
Therefore we address environmental 
issues with programmes in Bangladesh and China. The 
programmes promote around 40  
easy-to-implement environmental 
measures that are directly linked to cost savings and profitability.China
As announced in our 2009 report, the programme now involves the NGOs Solidaridad and the Natural Resource 
Defense Council, as well as the 
Chinese Dyeing Mill Association,  
to further promote better practices  
in Chinese mills. The programme runs on-site evaluations, provides action 
plans and workshops and shares best 
practice examples. Currently 10 mills are participating in the programme. 
Bangladesh
From May 2010, the programme has become a multi-stakeholder initiative involving the NGOs IFC-SEDF, TNO 
and Solidaridad, as well as a number  
of other brands. It is designed to  
have a sector-wide impact through  
the promotion of environmental 
improvement measures. Currently,  
six vertically integrated H&M  
suppliers participate. USE NA TURAL  RESOURCES  RESPONSIBL Y
WATER  DISCLOSURE  
WORKING  GROUP
During 2010 H&M joined the Water Disclosure Working Group (WDWG), set up within the UN CEO Water 
Mandate. This new group will drive  
the harmonisation of existing and 
emerging corporate water disclosure initiatives. It aims to provide clear guidance and to establish a common 
metric for water footprint. This will 
improve corporate reporting on water use and supply, thereby highlighting best practice. H&M is committed to 
adding our own experience and 
knowledge to this process.
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 99
PAPER 
We use a lot of paper at H&M, ranging 
from transport cartons, hang tags and gift boxes to office paper, receipt  
rolls, the H&M magazine and our  
mail order catalogue.
We have a policy that paper made 
from fibre that originates from a 
country with a tropical rainforest  
must be Forest Stewardship Council 
(FSC) certified. Our ambition is to increase our use of FSC certified 
paper globally, regardless of the origin. 
For example, all of our receipt rolls  
are made of FSC-certified paper.  
FSC is a leading international forest certification association, guaranteeing 
that the paper comes from a 
sustainable source. 
In 2010, we developed guidelines for 
the procurement of paper and paper 
products in order to help buyers at 
H&M make sustainable choices. It encourages the use of recycled fibre or fibre from certified sustainable sources and more environmentally 
conscious bleaching and printing 
processes.Our greatest paper use is in our  
mail order catalogue. For this, we  
use EU-Flower labelled paper and  
the majority of the fibre comes from certified forests. The printers used  
for the catalogue are certified under ISO14001. All of our mail order packaging boxes are made of cardboard with at least 60  
percent recycled content.
All of our head office printers are  
set to double-sided printing as the 
default setting. 
INTERIORS FI xTURES  
AND FITTINGS
Store furniture and fittings can carry an environmental burden from their manufacture, use and disposal. This 
includes the raw materials used for 
their manufacture, hazardous treatments, energy and water use during production, and their disposal. 
We have environmental guidelines for 
our interior department to use when choosing materials. We also have a set of requirements that suppliers of shop 
fittings must follow. These state the materials that can and cannot be  
used from an environmental and 
health perspective. 
ENVIRONMENTAL 
REQUIREMENTS IN CONSTRUCTION 
We set high standards for ourselves in 
terms of environmental responsibility and we expect our business partners 
to adopt equally high standards. 
Materials and substances that are hazardous for humans or the environment must be avoided in construction work for H&M.  
We follow 
the precautionary principle, 
which means that if a material or substance is suspected of being 
hazardous it should be avoided 
whenever possible, without compromising quality and safety.  
For example, all installations must be 
PVC-free and water-based paints 
should always be used indoors. 
We expect our business partners to 
contribute to our efforts to preserve 
natural resources. We also encourage 
the use of new technologies that can reduce negative environmental USE NA TURAL  RESOURCES  RESPONSIBL Y
PAPER  AND  STORE 
INTERIORS
impacts from both the construction and the operation of H&M stores  
and other premises. We also have requirements that mixer taps in washrooms, kitchens and toilets should be fitted with water-saving 
devices. All stores should also have 
adequate space for waste handling and separation.100% 
of the paper used for our mail 
order catalogues is EU flower 
eco-labelled
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 100
STRENGTHEN 
COMMUNITIES7
Our operations have an impact on communities around the 
world. We contribute to economic growth in the areas that H&M and our suppliers operate in and use our influence to promote better social and environmental conditions. Investing in the communities around us extends these improvements more widely and in turn, benefits our business.
$6,500,000 
generated through 
our 2008-2010 
fashion Against 
Aids collections631,295 garments donated  
to charities in 2010IN THIS  SECTION 
Policy and focus ............................................... 101 
Community Projects ......................................... 103 
Community support .......................................... 107 
More than 100,000 people have been provided with safe water through our collaboration with WaterAid since 2002
0 0 0 0 0
 1
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 101
 –Our global community investment policy 
guides the investments we make. Our efforts should be focused, efficient and sustainable and have a clear connection to our business, and to our stakeholders’ and society’s needs.  We focus our efforts on three areas: 
-  Employment and education among women and youth
- Water
- Innovation of sustainable materials.
Our community investment work builds on three pillars outlined in our 
global community investment policy: 
-  Our long-term community partners, UNICEF and WaterAid
-  A number of distinct community 
projects
- Ongoing community support.
These pillars work together to meet 
some of the diverse needs of the 
communities in which we operate.
Community activities undertaken 
across H&M include cause-related marketing campaigns and donations  
of money and clothes to selected charity organisations. We also provide emergency relief in the event of  
major catastrophes. In 2010 alone, H&M invested SEK 32.7 million  
(USD 4.65 million).POLICY  AND  fOCUS
LONG -TERM  PARTNERS
Forming relationships with expert international partners allows us to address some major global issues to 
an extent that would be impossible  
if we acted alone. We co-operate with 
our long-term partners on different projects, aiming to improve conditions for communities we touch. We 
encourage our customers to offer 
their own support.
UNICEF
 H&M began a partnership with UNICEF in 2004. Since the beginning of the partnership, we have made 
annual donations to the organisation. 
In 2010, UNICEF received around SEK 13.8 million (USD 1.96 million) from H&M for all projects. STRENGTHEN  COMMUNITIES
WATER AID
 This international NGO works to give the world’s poorest people access  
to safe water, sanitation, and hygiene 
education. Our support for WaterAid 
dates back to 2002. Since the start  
of the partnership, we have raised  
almost SEK 20 million (approximately  
USD 2.8 million) for WaterAid’s  
water and sanitation projects. SEk 32.7m
million invested in our 
communities in 2010 alone 
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 102
PROJECT  / ISSUE PARTNER COUNTRY INVESTMENT  2010  
(SEK)
All for Children UNICEF India 11,888,358
HIV/AIDS awareness DAA, YouthAids, MTV Staying Alive 
Foundation, UNFPAVarious 10,654,002
Safe water, hygiene education  
and sanitationWaterAid Bangladesh, India and Pakistan 4,101,300
Fire Prevention in garment factories H&M Bangladesh 1,000,000
Education Mentor Sweden 1,500,000
Disaster relief UNICEF Haiti 719,500
Disaster relief UNICEF Pakistan 738,500
Local donations Mainly UNICEF Various 1,709,422
Others   400,000
  Total H&M 32,711,082
DONATIONS  MADE  BY H&M’ S ANNIVERSARY  FOUNDATION  ‘JUBILEUMSSTIFTELSEN ’ 
Education and poverty eradication Hand in Hand India 1,900,418
Children’s rights CCR CSR China 665,000
Access to safe water FRANK India 950,334
  Total Jubileumsstiftelsen 3,515,752OUR COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS 2010 AT A GLANCEPOLICY  AND  fOCUSSTRENGTHEN  COMMUNITIES
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 103
COMMUNITY  PROjECTS 
We support directly a number of projects  
in the communities in which H&M and our 
supply chain operate. It is through these projects that we can work to address the  
most relevant issues locally and contribute  
to positive and sustainable change in communities touched by our operations.ALL FOR CHILDREN
We take a clear stand against all use of 
child labour and, today, incidents of children working in our first-tier supply 
chain occur rarely. However, as we do 
not purchase cotton directly, we are not in a position to impose demands on cotton and cottonseed producers. In 2009, in co-operation with UNICEF, 
we launched the All for Children 
project to address the causes of child labour and improve conditions in Indian cotton production.
The All for Children project focuses  
on five specific areas: 
-  Addressing child protection policies and structures
-  Education
-  Community mobilisation
-  Social protection
-  Health and nutrition.
It targets 1.7 million children up to 14 years of age, in the districts of Salem and Dharmapuri in the state of Tamil Nadu. A special focus is put on about 300,000 of the most vulnerable 
children.ALL FOR CHILDRE N: WHAT  HAVE  
WE ACHIEVED  AFTER  ONE  YEAR ?
 
 Local committees for child 
protection formed in 70 regions (panchayats) covering 250,000 
people
4,600 former child labourers are no 
longer working and back in school
Access to welfare and health 
support for vulnerable children  
and their families
Awareness training for more than 
8,200 employees in the Indian health system to increase vitamin A supplement distribution and de-worming for 300,000 children 
children under six 
Awareness training on children’s 
rights for teachers at over 100 schools with a combined total  
of more than 70,000 pupils.   
 
    
 
   
 
    
 
We have a dedicated website where we provide regular updates on the progress 
made in this project: 
www.hm.com/allforchildren 
STRENGTHEN  COMMUNITIES
$4.5m
for All for Children – our  
5-year project with UNICEf 
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 104
The five-year project is supported  
by a SEK 40 million (USD 4.5 million) 
donation from H&M. Throughout  
the duration of the project, H&M is launching different products in support of All for Children. A series  
of four cotton bags was available during 2010. Of the sales generated  
in 2010, 30% was donated to this project, adding over USD 160,000  
of additional funding.
FASHION AGAINST AIDS (FAA)
Since 2008, H&M and Designers Against AIDS (DAA) have joined forces to launch a yearly fashion collection 
called Fashion Against AIDS (FAA). 
The main aim is to increase awareness about HIV/AIDS among youth. Furthermore, 25 percent of sales proceeds are donated towards HIV/
AIDS prevention projects. During the 
first year of the project, we donated the money raised to DAA and YouthAids. In 2009, we added MTV’s 
Staying Alive Foundation and the 
United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) to the list.In 2010, we followed the success of the previous campaigns with another 
collection, designed to offer our 
customers the best wardrobe for the summer music festivals. The collection generated donations to the value of 
more than SEK 10.6 million (USD 1.5 
million). So far, the FAA initiative has raised a total of about SEK 42 million (USD 6 million). 
WATERAID
WaterAid is an international NGO that works to improve access to safe water, hygiene and sanitation in the 
world’s poorest communities. H&M 
has collaborated with WaterAid since 2002, transforming the lives of over 110,000 of the world’s poorest people by improving access to safe water, 
hygiene education and sanitation. 
Every year, H&M supports WaterAid by selling a specially designed swimwear collection. Of the sales 
generated, 10 percent has been 
donated to WaterAid’s water and sanitation projects. Since the start of the partnership, H&M has raised more than SEK 18 million (USD 2.6 million) 
for WaterAid’s work in some of the countries where production for H&M takes place: Pakistan, Bangladesh  
and India. 
WHAT  HAVE  WE ACHIEVED ?
BANGLADESH 
As a result of the donations from  
H&M and our customers, about 
50,000 people have been provided 
with access to safe water and about 
29,000 with sanitation. 
INDIA
We support four projects in India which, together, provide more than 200,000 people with access to safe 
water and almost 100,000 now have 
access to sanitation. 
PAKISTAN
While WaterAid’s national programme is our project partner in Pakistan,  
we have directed available money to 
support the victims of the devastating 
floods in the country in 2010. With the support provided by H&M, WaterAid reached over 50,000 people, distributing 278,000 water purification 
tablets and providing hygiene kits to 
around 7,300 families.fashion Against  
Aids generated  
more than SE k  
10.6 million  
in 2010ANDREW  COOK ,  
DIRECTOR  OF 
COMMUNICATIONS  & 
FUNDRAISING  AT WATER AID 
 
“H&M has supported WaterAid’s vital work to transform the lives of thousands of the world’s poorest 
communities since 2002. WaterAid 
is very proud of our partnership with H&M, which has raised over GBP 1.7 million. This fantastic amount has funded projects in 
Bangladesh, India and Pakistan to 
provide safe water, improved hygiene and sanitation to families and children. Access to these basic 
human needs enables children to  
go to school and families to build 
livelihoods so that they can take the first steps out of poverty and look forward to brighter futures.
” COMMUNITY  PROjECTS STRENGTHEN  COMMUNITIES
$2.6m
generated since 2002  
to support WaterAid
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 105
UNICEF HIV/AIDS  
PREVENTION CAMBODIA
H&M has been supporting UNICEF’s 
HIV/AIDS Prevention and Care Program in Cambodia, one of our 
production countries. The programme 
was designed to run for five years ending in 2010. Its aim was to reduce the transmission of HIV among young people and high-risk groups and limit 
the impact of the epidemic on children 
and their families. We have used our access to factories to help UNICEF reach out to young female garment 
workers. In this way, we have been  
able to raise awareness among our 
suppliers of their own role in protecting the health of their workers. The program also supports education on 
the issue among youth throughout the 
country, as well as HIV counselling  
and testing.
H&M TRAINING  
CENT RE IN DHAKA
For 11 years, H&M has run a centre  
in Dhaka, Bangladesh, where young people can train to become sewing 
and knitting machine operators. The 
main aim of the centre is to provide young people with the opportunity  
to improve their living conditions by taking on skilled work. At the end of the training, students are guaranteed  
a job at selected H&M suppliers. The target is to train 100 trainees every 
year. Since the start of the project,  
a total of 1,122 people have received 
the training. We aim to encourage similar initiatives by openly sharing  
the concept and our experiences  
with NGOs, suppliers and other international companies. 
WOMEN IN RETAIL  
PROGRAMME SAUDI ARABIA
Following the opening of our first franchise store in Saudi Arabia in 2008, we are in the process of establishing a 
retail training program for women in 
the city of Jeddah, together with our franchise partner Alshaya. The centre is aiming to open during Spring 2011 and will promote female employment 
in Saudi Arabia, particularly in the retail 
sector. Students who complete the college-based 12-week course will have improved skills that will support 
their employment opportunities in the 
retail sector. UNICEF HIV/AIDS PREVENTION CAMBODIA: W HAT  HAVE  WE 
ACHIEVED ?
Awareness training provided  
to 127,423 garment workers in  
14 factories
4,682 people brought into public 
healthcare programmes through their factories
12 factories established HIV 
workplace committees to continue HIV awareness programmes
Surveys showed that by the end  
of the project, 82 percent of the 
workers had comprehensive knowledge about HIV/AIDS  
(2008: 59 percent)
27,689 women made use of the 
helpline provided 
32,924 men and women took 
advantage of anonymous testing 
and counselling services (VCCTs)COMMUNITY  PROjECTS STRENGTHEN  COMMUNITIES
127 ,423
garment workers in Cambodia 
educated on HIV/AIDS
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 106
IMPROVING HEALTHCARE  
FOR GARMENT WORKERS  
IN BANGLADESH
High rates of worker absenteeism are 
an issue for many textile producers in Bangladesh. At the same time, some 
workers go to work even though they 
may be feeling unwell. One reason is  
a lack of knowledge among workers about their rights and correct procedures for any kind of leave.  
We are working to raise awareness among workers through initiatives like our Workers Awareness Film Project (see page 50). 
Another reason is that affordable healthcare is often not available if factories do not provide it to workers. A survey we conducted among 
workers in three factories showed that 
workers spend over 200 Taka (around USD 2.80) each month on healthcare for themselves and their families –  
a significant sum for many of them.  
As a result of this finding, we have teamed up with USAID’s project, Smiling Sun, and our suppliers to  
offer healthcare to workers and their families for a low fee of 10 Taka  (USD 0.14) at 320 clinics run by Smiling Sun in over 60 Bangladeshi districts. The supplier and H&M will contribute 
an additional 20 Taka each. The 
project started in November 2010 and we aim to have 10,000 workers signed up for the program by the end of 2011.
H&M ANNIVERSARY 
FOUNDATION
Jubiluemsstiftelsen (H&M’s 
Anniversary Foundation) was set up in connection with our 60th anniversary 
in 2007. It supports projects aimed at 
improving the quality of life of people in the countries where H&M operates. 
HAND  IN HAND
In 2010, the Anniversary Foundation continued to support Hand in Hand,  
a charitable trust active in Tamil Nadu, 
India. Hand in Hand’s objective is to 
eradicate extreme poverty through education, employment, income generation and empowerment. To achieve this, the trust is implementing 
programs including citizen centres, 
self-help groups and medical camps and facilitating access to credit. The projects reach out to almost 50,000 people in three areas, each consisting of 10 villages. In 2010 the Anniversary 
Foundation donated SEK 1.9 million 
(USD 270,000).
CCRCSR
For the second consecutive year, the Anniversary Foundation contributed to Save the Children’s Centre for 
Children’s Rights and Corporate Social 
Responsibility (CCRCSR) in China. With a total contribution of SEK 2.2 million (USD 310,000) the donation assists the centre in its work to help 
businesses in and around China to 
address children’s rights issues. Activities at the centre include research and analysis, capacity 
building, training and workshops and 
consultancy. Our support will help with the development and running  
of the centre’s English and Chinese website and hotline. The hotline  
aims to provide the best source  
of information on children’s rights  
for businesses in China. 
Alongside this support from the H&M 
Anniversary Foundation, H&M is a 
member of the CCRCSR Working Group. Together with a number of other brands, we participate in the development of an intervention service for use in the rare cases in 
which underage workers are found  
in the Chinese garment export  
sector. H&M also contributes to the 
production of training materials to reach migrant worker parents to share 
techniques with them to communicate 
better with their children back home.
FRANK W ATER  PROJECT
In 2010, the Anniversary Foundation expanded its support to the FRANK Water Project. With a donation of SEK 
950,000 (USD 135,000) this smaller, 
UK-based charity provides access to clean water for the world’s poorest communities. Through funding received from the Anniversary 
Foundation, 10 clean water projects 
will be implemented in villages in Andhra Pradesh, South East India,  
to provide safe water for about 
70,000 people.COMMUNITY  PROjECTS STRENGTHEN  COMMUNITIES
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 107
COMMUNITY  SUPPORT
An important part of our community 
investment work is to provide support  
in times of crisis. In cases of major catastrophes, H&M makes direct contributions to emergency relief efforts  
and humanitarian aid. In addition to this  
we regularly donate clothes to selected partner organisations.DISASTER RELIEF
In January 2010, a devastating 
earthquake occurred in Haiti, leaving more than 222,000 people dead and 
more than 300,000 injured. H&M 
donated SEK 719,500 (USD 100,000) to UNICEF’s relief efforts. Several sales countries, including Canada, Sweden, US, Japan, Austria, UK and 
Ireland, launched their own support 
efforts, enabling customers to make direct donations to UNICEF in  
H&M stores. 
In response to the floods in Pakistan,  
in August 2010, we donated SEK 
738,500 (USD 100,000) to support UNICEF’s relief efforts. 
DONATIONS OF GARMENTS
Each year, H&M donates large quantities of clothes to aid organisations in countries in which  
we operate. Garments we donate include samples and clothes that  
do not comply with H&M’s quality requirements. However, we do not give away clothes that do not meet 
our safety requirements and  
chemical restrictions.Unfortunately, we learned that not  
all of our stores followed our policy. 
Therefore we have introduced an 
updated policy and additional 
implementation guidance.
The updated policy states that all 
unsold products should be donated  
to charity or, if possible, be recycled into something useful. The charities chosen must meet basic criteria and undertake to provide H&M with a 
report that specifies the amount of 
goods received as well as how and where the goods have been used.  
Our policy also allows for charitable organisations to sell donated garments 
to generate funds that support their 
work. In total, we donated 631,295 garments globally in 2010.
Note: Currency conversions are wherever 
possible reported according to the conversion rate at date of transaction. In some cases data has not been available and conversions are based on rates valid at 30 November 2010.STRENGTHEN  COMMUNITIES
631,295
garments donated  
to charities in 2010
CONTENTS 108
 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
Please note that we have adjusted  
our sustainability report to match 
H&M’s financial reporting year. As a 
result, the reporting period for this 
report and all data in this appendix is  
1 December 2009 to 30 November 2010. For certain data, one month’s overlap has occurred. 
Audit data includes all active 
manufacturing and processing  
(e.g. washing or dyeing) suppliers  
and factories. As these technically  
can be temporarily rejected and  
then re-approved after a correction plan has been carried out successfully, data from these factories is included 
independent of being graded 
approved or rejected at the reports cut-off date (30 November 2010). Permanently rejected suppliers  
and factories are deactivated and excluded. Likewise, we have not 
included data from factories that  
were approved by the CSR-team 
during the reporting period but  
have not yet been activated for production at reporting year-end.
In our regional reporting, we 
consolidate Cambodia, China, Indonesia, South Korea, Thailand, 
Vietnam and Taiwan as our Far East 
region. The South Asia region consists of Bangladesh, India, Pakistan and  
Sri Lanka. The EMEA and other region includes our European suppliers as 
well as a few suppliers in North Africa. PERfORMANCE  APPENDI x 2010
The following pages provide additional  
key data from our sustainability report  
and supply chain audit programme. 
Additional data on our employees can  
also be found as well as target follow-ups and our 2011 Conscious Actions Plan.
CONTENTS 109
 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
SUPPLIERS AND fACTORIES 
Number of active 
suppliers /factories  
per region
NOTES :
Data shows the number of suppliers as well as factories which are owned or subcontracted by our suppliers and approved and used for production of H&M goods in 2010. In 2010, the active factory base increased by 112 units to 1,693 factories. compared to 2009 This is an increase of 7 percent, which is in line with our expectations and a result from 
H&M’s growth.South Asia  179 444
Far East  301 664
EMEA and others  195 585
Total  675  1693Active suppliers 2010 Active factories 2010 Region
CONTENTS 110
 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
AUDITS
Audits on active 
factoriesBangladesh  125 83%  219 52%  344 63%  1.57  
India  90 62%  115 65%  205  64%  1.19  
Pakistan  18 67%  32 63%  50 64%  1.61  
Sri Lanka  13 69%  5 60%  18 67%  0.82  
Total South Asia  246  74%  371 57%  617 64%  1.39  
         
China (excl. Hong Kong)  216 69%  462 42%  678 50%  1.41  
Hong Kong  0  1  1 100%  1.00  
Indonesia  23 100%  59 81%  82 87%  1.55  
South Korea  6 17%  12 17%  18 17%  0.30  
Cambodia  17 65%  16 63%  33 64%  0.73  
Thailand  2 50%  0  2 50%  0.40  
Vietnam  13 46%  2 50%  15 47%  0.88  
Taiwan  1 100%  0  1 100%  1.00  
Total Far East  278  69%  552  46%  830  54%  1.25  
Bulgaria  17 59%  42 69%  59 66%  1.59  
Italy  10 0% 5 0% 15 0% 0.15  
Lithuania  0  0  0  
Mauritius  0  0  0   Percent unannounced Percent unannounced Percent unannounced Total number  
of audits Countries/regions Number of head audits Number of  
follow-up audits Average number of audits per active factory
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 111
Percent unannounced Percent unannounced Percent unannounced Total number  
of audits Number of head audits Number of  
follow-up audits Average number of audits per active factory
Audits on active 
factories (continued)Portugal  3 33%  7 0% 10 10%  0.53  
Romania  9 11% 39 59%  48 50%  1.37  
Turkey  134 76%  191 65%  325 70%  0.94  
Egypt  4 0% 6 33%  10 20%  1.11  
Greece  3 0% 2 50%  5 20%  0.71  
Morocco  3 0% 1 0% 4 0% 0.67  
Poland  5 20%  1 0% 6 17%  1.20  
Tunisia  3 0% 0  3 0% 0.30  
Latvia  1 100%  1 100%  2 100%  1.00  
Czech Republic  0  0  0  
Ukraine  2 0% 1 0% 3 0% 1.00  
Hungary  0  0  0  
Serbia  1 0% 0  1 0% 1.00  
Total EMEA and other*  195 59%  296  61%  491 60%  0.84  
       40%  
Total  719 68%   1,219   53%  1,938   59%  1.14  
FAP audits         1,864      
LAP audits         74    Countries/regionsAUDITS
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 112
Audits on active 
factories (continued)AUDITS
NOTES :
Data includes the number of audits on manufacturing and/or processing factories approved and used for production of H&M goods. Because we have removed audits conducted on prospective factories that are not yet approved and used for production in this year’s report, the number of 1,938 audits for 2010 is not comparable to previous years’ figures. The 
comparable figure for all audits in 2010, including active, inactive and prospective suppliers is 2,561.
In 2010, we performed 1,938 audits, of which 59 percent were unannounced. Of the 719 head audits, 415 (58 percent) 
were on new factories audited by H&M for the first time. Most of the unannounced audits were made in the South Asia region (63 percent) and the fewest were in EMEA and other regions in 2010 (44 percent).
Of our 1,938 audits, 74 were performed using the Limited Audits Programme (LAP).
 Note that audits comprise only the verification element of our supply chain programme. Other elements include  
non-audit supplier development activities, such as remediation plans and capacity building activities. Examples of such activities include managment systems assessments, training activities and workshops. More details can be found in the “choose and reward responsible partners” section of this report.
CONTENTS 113
 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
OTHER S USTAINABLITY 
ACTIVITIES
SUMMARY  OF SUPPLY  CHAIN  SUSTAINABILITY -PROGRAM  ACTIVITIES  2010
Our Full Audit Programme consists of audits (head audits and follow-up audits), management systems analyses and other 
capacity-building activities. The data below gives a first impression of the extent of our programme beyond monitoring. We will continue to elaborate on the analysis and presentation of this data in future reports.
Number of recorded capacity-building 
activities 2010 South Asia  5 59 40 104
Far East  371 134 730 1235
EMEA and other  22 63 33 118
Total  398  256  803  1457
NOTES :
The data above shows the number of recorded capacity-building activities where we invested in our suppliers’ 
development during the year. The table includes smaller and larger activities and is a first attempt by H&M to illustrate the scale of our capacity-building programme. We have not included occassions where we invited suppliers to participate in 
external activities or where we provided training and development for our auditors.Region Screening Training/workshop Meeting Total 
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 114
Number of 
management system analysesOTHER S USTAINABILITY 
ACTIVITIES
Average number  
of total activities per factorySouth Asia  197 116 43 28 53 21 45 503
Far East  212 436 434 245 275 223 0 1825
EMEA and other  35 69 34 23 4 17 4 186
Total  444  621 511 296  332  261 49 2514
South Asia  617 104 503  1224  2.8
Far East  829 1235  1825  3888  5.9
EMEA and other  492 118 186 794 1.4
Total  1938  1457  2514  5906  3.5  NOTES :
Management systems analyses are part of our ambition of moving beyond only monitoring our suppliers via audits. We aim to help them understand the root causes of compliance problems and to support them in developing sustainable, internal management systems to avoid audit violations. We started management system analyses in 2009 and will work 
further on evaluating and representing data in future reports.
NOTES :
Although it is difficult to directly compare audits with management systems analyses or other capacity-building activities, 
we have tried to develop a programme activity ratio per factory to illustrate and compare our efforts in different regions.Recruitment,  
introduction  
dismissal Workers´  
rights Health & Safety EHS Rules &  
Regulation Subcontracting unannounced Total Grievance/ communication
Managment  
systems  
analysis Audits Capacity building activities Average number of programme activities per factory Total number of program-activities RegionRegion
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 115
Progress from  
head audit one to  
head audit three at 
comparable factories COMPLIANCE  PROGRESS  AT 
COMPARABLE  fACTORIES
NOTES :
By the end of 2010, a total of 174 factories had completed their third head audit (eight of these have even completed their 
fourth) within our Full Audit Programme. This means, that after a first full audit cycle of head audit and, typically, three follow-up audits, these factories have also completed a second full audit cycle of head audit and follow-ups and gone 
through a third head audit. A single audit cycle takes around 18 months to two years.
The data shows the comparable progress these factories have made during this process. Understanding how compliance 
has developed between first head audit and third head audit provides a good base for assessing the progress factories have made through our Full Audit Programme. Even though progress in our compliance results is measured on ‘like-for-like’ factories, there are factors such as changes in our method which have an effect on the result. For this reason Code  
of Conduct requirements for metal plating, home workers and sandblasting do not apply to this comparison, as these were 
added to our Full Audit Programme after the first of these factories had entered their first audit cycle. All factories where 
we have performed three head audits are included in the data, although during this period they may have been rejected or deactivated for production. (continues on next page)  head audit 1  head audit 3  head audit 1  head audit 3  head audit 1  head audit 3  head audit 1  head audit 3
Young Workers /  79%  67%  95%  98%  64%  75%  84%  87%
Child Labour
Workers’  81%  79%  65%  82%  82%  74%  71% 80%
Basic RightsWorkers’ Rights  71% 59%  76%  87%  82%  81%  77%  82%
Health & Safety  87%  81%  87%  85%  79%  81%  85%  84%
Housing  93%  93%  90%  97%  n/a n/a 92%  94%
ConditionsEnvironment  54%  53%  60%  70%  40%  65%  54%  68%
Total  79%  72%  77%  83%  75%  79%  77%  81%South Asia 
112 factoriesPER CHAPTER 
(Compliance)EMEA 
42 factoriesTotal
174 factoriesFar East 
20 factories
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 116
PROGRESS  ON ICOC SCORESCOMPLIANCE  PROGRESS  AT                      
COMPARABLE  fACTORIES
Overall, the data shows a positive development of the compliance level of four percentage points, from 77 percent 
compliance in head audit one, to 81 percent in head audit three. In the Far East region, however, the data shows a decrease in compliance from 79 percent to 72 percent. These figures must be seen in the light of a small number of factories (20) in 
their third audit cycle in this region. This is also a result of higher transparency between H&M and suppliers in the region, 
as well as changed legislation and improved auditing, especially with regard to workers’ rights requirements. The best progress can be seen in the South Asia region (77 percent to 83 percent on 112 factories), followed by the EMEA region  
(75 percent to 79 percent on 42 factories). The areas with strongest positive performance globally are workers’ basic rights and environmental requirements. 
Supplier progress, when measuring comparable factories, is also confirmed when comparing the compliance level of 
new factories against active factories in their third audit cycle, that have been a partner with H&M for at least three years. Initial analyses from our new ICoC system show new factories receiving their first audits in 2010 scoring an average 1 
under the ICoC system. Factories that were new in 2008/2009 and completing their second full audit in 2010 had an 
average ICoC score of 75. Long-term supplier factories that completed a third head audit in 2010 had an average ICoC score of 79. 
While we can see good results with factories addressing non-compliances during audit cycles, factors such as our work 
to continually refine our auditing methods with more and better questions, ongoing training of our auditors, and an 
increase in transparency with suppliers have, in parallel, led to more non-compliances, masking potentially better improvements in suppliers’ sustainability performance.ICoC  
score 
 
 
80
78
76
74
72
70
68
66 1st head audit 
in 20102nd head audit 
in 20103rd head audit 
in 2010
71.274.778.9
CONTENTS 117
 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
COMPLIANCE  LEVEL  fROM 
ALL  2010 AUDITS
Compliance level from 
all 2010 audit results on active factories per 
audit questionYoung worker’s requirements         
Are all workers above or the same age as the  100%  100%  100%  100%
minimum age required by the national law, 
and H&M’s Code of Conduct?*
Are workers younger than 18 working under  32%  70%  21%   31% 
legal conditions?Subtotal  77%  97%  76%  82%
 
Workers’ basic rights         
Is absence of forced labour confirmed?  97%  100%  100%  99%
Do foreign and migrant workers have equal  100%  100%  100%  100% 
employment terms as local workers?
Do foreign and migrant workers have  83%  100%  75%  83% 
residential permit/working permits?Are all workers protected from any form  99%  92%  98%  96%
of abusive behaviour in the factory?Are all workers protected from any form of  100%  100%  100%  100%
physical abuse or sexual harassment?
Is freedom of association respected ?   100%  100%  100%  100%
Does the factory have legally required  76%  84%  50%  73% 
worker committees?
Do workers have the right to  100%  100%  100%  100%
bargain collectively?Region South Asia Far East Total EMEA
CONTENTS 118
 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
Region South Asia Far East Total EMEACOMPLIANCE  LEVEL  fROM 
ALL  2010 AUDITS
Is there a grievance system in place  15%  32%  42%  26% 
in the factory?
Is there a system for dialogue between  22%  35%  29%  28% 
workers and management?Are all workers, regardless of gender,  100%  100%  100%  100%
ethnicity, religion or geographical background,  
treated equally?Do all workers have employment contracts?  67%  63%  67%  66%
Are all relevant areas covered in their contracts?  71%  74%  54%  68%
Subtotal  76%  82%  82%  79%
 
Workers’ rights         
Are the regular working hours within the  45%  96%  82%  72% 
legal limit? (Excl. overtime)
Are monthly overtime hours within the  12%  20%  43%  22% 
legal limit?Does the basic salary amount to at least the  95%  96%  94%  95% 
legal minimum wage for normal working hours 
(including piece rate workers)?
Is overtime compensated according to the  45%  91%  53%  65% 
law regarding workers on monthly salaries?
Is overtime compensated according to the  17%  69%  60%  30% 
law regarding piece rate workers?Are wages paid regularly and on time?  96%  89%  96%  93%Compliance level from 
all 2010 audit results on active factories per 
audit question 
(continued)
CONTENTS 119
 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
COMPLIANCE  LEVEL  fROM 
ALL  2010 AUDITS
Region
Are deductions fair and reasonable?  89%  93%  92%  91%
Are correct wages paid?  79%  90%  87%  85%
Does the factory pay social security?  27%  83%  57%  49%
If no social security system in place, are  56%  86%  69% 
workers covered by alternative insurance?
Is sick leave duly granted?  89%  88%  97%  91%
Is sick leave compensated by the factory  34%  95%  97%  60% 
according to the law?
Is annual leave granted and paid for  32%  88%  77%  62% 
according to law?
Are all additional types of leave stipulated  54%  72%  97%  69% 
by law, granted to all workers?Is maternity leave given and paid for  45%  97%  99%  75% 
according to law?Are pregnant women guaranteed their  100%  100%  100%  100% 
employment during and after pregnancy?Does the factory fulfil the legal requirement  83%  76%  32%  73% 
concerning day care?
Subtotal  58%  85%  81%  73%
 
Health & Safety         
Are all basic safety requirements met?  98%  93%  93%  95%
Are all additional safety requirements met?  48%  46%  55%  49%
Are regular evacuation drills performed?  85%  88%  71%  83%Compliance level from all 2010 audit results on active factories per 
audit question 
(continued)South Asia Far East Total EMEA
CONTENTS 120
 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
COMPLIANCE  LEVEL  fROM 
ALL  2010 AUDITS
Are hazardous machines equipped with  76%  87%  34%  69% 
necessary protection?
Is personal protection equipment provided  59%  64%  58%  61% 
and used, where necessary?Is adequate first aid equipment available,  65%  89%  55%  71% 
and first aid training provided?In case of injury or illness, can medical care  78%  90%  91%  85% 
for the worker be provided with short notice?
Do workers have access to safe drinking water?  96%  91%  86%  92%
Does the factory provide a canteen/dining  95%  90%  95%  93% 
area available for all workers?
Is the factory clean and free from dirt and dust?  40%  87%  76%  65%
Is the temperature in the factory tolerable  93%  83%  95%  90% 
to work in?
Is the spot removal content in accordance  59%  65%  54%  61% 
with H&M’s restriction list, performed in 
well ventilated area, using adequate personal protection equipment?
Is there a sufficient number of toilets?  97%  98%  93%  96%
Are toilets clean and maintained?  53%  72%  89%  68%
Do the workers have unlimited access  100%  98%  99%  99% 
to the toilets?Subtotal  77%  83%  78%  79%Compliance level from 
all 2010 audit results on active factories per 
audit question 
(continued)Region South Asia Far East Total EMEA
CONTENTS 121
 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
COMPLIANCE  LEVEL  fROM 
ALL  2010 AUDITS
Environment         
Does the factory have the legally required  86%  94%  75%  88% 
environmental permits/licences?
Are the chemical containers  24%  14%  49%  24% 
properly labelled?Are solvent-based chemicals in compliance  52%  93%  64%  68% 
with H&M’s chemical restriction list?Does the factory have safety data sheets  24%  18%  43%  25% 
for all chemical products both in storage  
& workshop areas?Have the workers who regularly handle  52%  58%  58%  55% 
chemicals been trained in safe  
chemical handling?Is the information in the safety data sheets  40%  25%  51%  36% 
on storage and personal protection 
equipment implemented?
Is outgoing waste water treated?  84%  91%  78%  86%
Are there clear signs that the waste  97%  90%  100%  93% 
water treatment system is in use?
Does the treated waste water quality meet  71%  81%  85%  78% 
requirements in local legislation and / or 
BSR guidelines, whichever is more stringent?
Does the waste water treatment capacity  90%  92%  100%  92% 
exceed the waste water going to the waste 
water treatment plant?Compliance level from all 2010 audit results on active factories per 
audit question 
(continued)Region South Asia Far East Total EMEA
CONTENTS 122
 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
COMPLIANCE  LEVEL  fROM 
ALL  2010 AUDITS
Compliance level from 
all 2010 audit results on active factories per 
audit question 
(continued)Is sludge from the waste water treatment  58%  85%  89%  76% 
disposed of in a legal or otherwise responsible manner?
Is hazardous waste disposed of in  61%  97%  56%  71% 
a legal manner?Subtotal  54%  66%  62%  60%
 
Housing conditions         
Are the dormitories separated from  100%  100%  not applicable  100% 
the factory building?
Can the workers enter and exit the  100%  100%  not applicable  100% 
dormitory at any time?
Does everyone living in the dormitory  100%  100%  not applicable  100% 
have an individual bed?Are workers granted some personal privacy?  47%  100%  not applicable  49%
Does the dormitory meet required basic  98%  60%  not applicable  97% 
safety standards?
Are there enough clean toilets?  89%  100%  not applicable  90%
Are facilities for private hygiene provided?  90%  100%  not applicable  91%
Is the dorm generally clean and hygienic?  82%  100%  not applicable  83%
If there is a staffed kitchen in the dorm,  85%  100%  not applicable  87% 
is it clean and hygienic?
Is the temperature in the dormitory tolerable?  100%  100%  not applicable  100%Region South Asia Far East Total EMEA
CONTENTS 123
 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
COMPLIANCE  LEVEL  fROM 
ALL  2010 AUDITS
Compliance level from 
all 2010 audit results on active factories per 
audit question 
(continued)Are regular evacuation drills performed?  77%  40%  not applicable  76%
Are all additional safety requirements met?  85%  40%  not applicable  84%
Subtotal  88%  86%  not applicable  88%
 Home workers requirements (Home working is rarely conducted in the Far East and EMEA. Results for Far East apply to one factory only.)   
Is home working performed in a workers’  100%  100%  not applicable  100% 
home or workplace chosen by the workers themselves and which is not owned  
by employer?
Are all workers, involved in home working,  not applicable  100%  not applicable  100% 
perceived to be above or the same age as 
the minimum age required by the national 
law, and H&M’s Code of Conduct?
Are young workers, involved in home  not applicable  100%  not applicable  100% 
working, attending school?Do all home workers perform their work  100%  93%  not applicable  93% 
voluntaryily at all times?Do foreign and migrant workers have  0% 100%  not applicable  92% 
residential permits?
Are home workers free to organise  not applicable  100%  not applicable  100% 
a union or co-operative?Is collective bargaining respected?  not applicable  100%  not applicable  100%
Is there a grievance system in place?  0% 14%  not applicable  13%Region South Asia Far East Total EMEA
CONTENTS 124
 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
COMPLIANCE  LEVEL  fROM 
ALL  2010 AUDITS
Region South Asia Far East Total EMEA
Do all home workers have an agreement?  0% 86%  not applicable  80%
Can the amount of work be completed,  100%  100%  not applicable  100% 
by one person, within a reasonable number 
of working hours?
Does the hourly rate amount to at least the  0% 50%  not applicable  47% 
legal minimum hourly wage?Subtotal  43%  84%  not applicable  82%
 
Sandblasting & chemical treatments 
(Sandblasting is no longer allowed for H&M production.)        
Are legally required air quality  50%  50%  40%  45% 
measurements done?
Is ventilation sufficient?*  100%  100%  100%  100%
Are the legally required health checks  50%  100%  83%  81% 
in place in the factory?Are the workers educated on safe  0% 69%  50%  52% 
handling and risks?
Is a wash station connected directly to the  50%  79%  67%  71% 
workshop in case dust or chemicals get 
in workers’ eyes?
Is hearing protection worn if there is a  100%  100%  67%  92% 
noisy environment, e.g. sandblasting?Does the factory have the required  100%  100%  100%  100% 
permit for sandblasting?Compliance level from 
all 2010 audit results on active factories per 
audit question 
(continued)
CONTENTS 125
 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
COMPLIANCE  LEVEL  fROM 
ALL  2010 AUDITS
Region South Asia Far East Total EMEA
Does the sandblasting material contain  100%  100%  100%  100% 
less than 1% crystalline silica (SiO2)
Is ventilation adopted for sandblasting activity?  100%  89%  100%  92%
Is the sandblasting done in a separate area?  100%  100%  100%  100%
Is compulsory personal protective  100%  100%  50%  91% 
equipment used?Is additional personal protective equipment  100%  86%  100%  91% 
provided by employer?Does the cleaning staff have compulsory  100%  71%  100%  80% 
personal protection equipment when 
cleaning sandblasting area?
Are the workers handling potassium  100%  100%  33%  83% 
permanganate in storage and mixing  
are using the personal protection  
equipment needed?Are the workers spraying chemicals using  75%  64%  33%  57% 
the personal protection equipment needed?Are the workers spongeing chemicals  100%  100%  100%  100% 
wearing impervious gloves?Is the potassium permanganate stored safely?  100%  92%  43%  81%
Subtotal  77%  88%  66%  80%
 Compliance level from 
all 2010 audit results on active factories per 
audit question 
(continued)
CONTENTS 126
 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
COMPLIANCE  LEVEL  fROM 
ALL  2010 AUDITS
Region South Asia Far East Total EMEA
Metal Plating 
(Metal plating related questions have in 2010 only been applicable to 3 factories in the Far East region.) 
Is there a suitably-qualified person in charge  100%  not applicable  not applicable  100% 
of chemical handling?Are the workers educated on safe  100%  not applicable  not applicable  100% 
handling and risks?Is the ventilation adapted for metal plating?  100%  not applicable  not applicable  100%
Does the factory have a chemical  78%  not applicable  not applicable  78% 
inventory list?Is compulsory personal protective  100%  not applicable  not applicable  100% 
equipment used?Is there a wash station connected directly  78%  not applicable  not applicable  78% 
to both the workshop in case chemicals get  
in workers’ eyes?Are the legally required health checks  22%  not applicable  not applicable  22% 
conducted in the factory?Are the non-compatible chemicals separated  100%  not applicable  not applicable  100% 
in both storage and in the workshop?If hydroflouric acid is used is it handled safely?  100%  not applicable  not applicable  100%
Subtotal  85%  not applicable  not applicable  85%
TOTAL  70%  82%  79%  76%Compliance level from 
all 2010 audit results on active factories per 
audit question 
(continued)
CONTENTS 127
 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
COMPLIANCE  LEVEL  fROM 
 ALL  2010 AUDITS
Region South Asia Far East Total EMEA
Young Workers/ Child Labour  77%  97%  76%  82%
Workers Basic Rights  76%  82%  82%  79%
Workers Rights  58%  85%  81%  73%
Health & Safety  77%  83%  78%  79%
Housing Conditions  88%  86%  not applicable  88%
Environment  54%  66%  62%  60%
Sandblasting & Chemical Treatment  77%  88%  66%  80%
Metal Plating  85%  not applicable  not applicable  85%
Home Workers  43%  84%  not applicable  82%
TOTAL  70%  82%  79%  76%Compliance level from 
all 2010 audit results 
on active factories per audit question (continued)Chapter from audit questionnaire  
CONTENTS 128
 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
COMPLIANCE  LEVEL  fROM 
ALL  2010 AUDITS
NOTES :
The figures provided are based on all non-compliances detected during full audits on active manufacturing and/or 
processing factories conducted between 1 December 2009 – 30 November 2010. The compliance results should only be seen as a snapshot of the compliance level of the factories we were working with at the report’s cut-off date. Not every 
question from our audit questionnaires applies to every factory and is therefore only raised where relevant. Accordingly, 
in order to create the greatest possible accuracy and transparency, compliance levels are weighted according to the frequency with which each related question from our audit questionnaire was raised during our Full Audit Programme. Percentage figures therefore, do not neccessarily relate either to the total number of audits conducted or to the number of factories in total. Please note that year-on-year figures do not relate to comparable factories but depend on where in 
the audit cycle the majority of the factories are during the year as well as the number of new factories. 
The selection of data in 2010 differs from previous years since we are now only using data from factories we are actively 
working with (active factories). This means that compliance data for new factories that during 2010 were approved and 
activated for supplying H&M are included, but audit results from potential new factories which were never activated  
and accordingly, never started to work for H&M, are excluded. 
Since we constantly improve our method, raise our expectations, add and update the audit questions, to make it  
easier to detect violations, the compliance data should not be compared year-on-year. In addition to this complexity  
and incomparability we would like to highlight a few factors which need to be understood for the data not to be 
misinterpreted. 
When comparing compliance figures it is important to notice that South Asia and Europe are progressing, but the  
Far East has experienced a negative compliance development. This is mainly an effect of the above mentioned audit 
methodology development, extended regulations and increased transparency. As the share of factories from the  
Far East increased in H&M’s total factory base, this has an affect on our total compliance data.Compliance level from all 2010 audit results 
on active factories per audit question (continued)
CONTENTS 129
 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
COMPLIANCE  LEVEL  fROM                   
ALL  2010 AUDITS
Some questions address complex issues, such as discrimination or freedom of association, where non-compliances  
are difficult to detect through audits. You can find some of these questions marked in green above, indicating a 100% 
compliance level. We are aware that although no violations could be detected during our audits, these issues require  
our attention. Accordingly, management system, a further emphasis on communication and grievance systems, as well  
as awareness-raising among both, our suppliers and their employees, on such issues are important parts of our strategy  
and daily work. 
As can be seen from the data, the existence and sufficiency of communication and grievance systems, overtime and  
its compensation, as well as chemical handling are some of the issues requiring further progress and remain high on our 
agenda. We can see positive tendencies on all overtime requirements on a global level with, for example, compliance on overtime compensation for workers with monthly salaries improving to 65% (2008: 54%). You can read throughout this report and particularly in the ‘choose and reward responsible partners’ chapter how we work towards further progress 
on these issues.
*During each audit and all other visits to our supplier factories (a total of 5906 in 2010 just done by our auditors) we 
immediately react in case a worker appears to be below the legal age (for example 18 years in Bangladesh, 16 years in China). Luckily, this is only very rarely the case today. However, we take each indication very seriously. In 2010, we 
followed up on 9 cases of workers below the legal minimum age at factories that supplied H&M or were approved for 
production. The majority of cases were detected in China, where the legal minimum age is 16 years and school often ends at the age of 15, so that this one year gap can result in a higher risk of employment. All cases were resolved immediately. In each individual case, actions were taken to ensure economic or educational support in each child’s  
best interest. Follow up audits in the relevant factories showed successful remediation, leading to a 100% compliance 
level in our data system. We worked with the concerned suppliers to improve their management systems to ensure  
no such employment shall happen again.Compliance level from 
all 2010 audit results on active factories per 
audit question 
(continued)
CONTENTS 130
 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
1
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0 Total 
workforceManagement 
positions*
0.81
0.71
50% 50%OUR EMPLOYEES 
*All management levels including store 
managers. Ratio of women/men per category (%): Board of directors: 50/50, group level management (incl. CEO) 39/61, sales country managers 48/52, production office managers 44/56, division heads (Buying Office) 47/53, section heads (Buying Office) 60/40, area managers (sales) 62/48, store managers 77/33.Ratio of women in total workforce  
and in management positions
Ratio of women/men on our board 
of directors
CONTENTS 131
 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
1.0
  
0.8
 
0.6
 
0.4
 
0.2
 
0.0Store manager Department 
manager (in store)Visual 
merchandiserSales advisor Warehouse 
employees
0.940.920.95 0.95 0.97
B 
60%A 
40%Ratio of full-time / 
part-time employees A. Full-time employees  
B. Part-time employees OUR  EMPLOYEES
Ratio of basic salary between women and men (Due to changes in our data system, 2009 full year 
data is provided. We will continue 
reporting updated figures with our next report.)
CONTENTS 132
 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
D 
21%
C 
79%OUR  EMPLOYEES
Ratio of employees with permanent  
and non-permanent contracts
C. Permanent employment contract 
D.  Temporary employment contract
NOTES :
As the above charts show, the ratio of women to men on our Board of Directors is 50:50. Further, the female/male ratio 
across all levels of management, is nearly equal to the ratio across the entire workforce.As the salary ratio figures (data 2009) show, the average basic salary of female employees in our biggest employee 
category by far – sales advisers in stores – is 97% that of their male counterparts.
Differences can occur, for example, due to the length of employment. 79% of our employees have permanent employment contracts. Non-permanent employment contracts are often used for replacements e.g. during parental or other kinds of leave. 60% of our employees work part-time, while the definition of part-time varies massively between the different countries we operate in. For example, a 35-hour week could mean full-time employment in France, while 
this would be counted as part-time employment in Sweden.
CONTENTS 133
 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
2010 S UPPLY  CHAIN 
TARGET  fOLLOW  UP
Is overtime compensated 
according to the law regarding workers on 
monthly salaries?61%
 46% 66% CSR team 
EuropeTurkey is the main driver of lower compliance on this question. The main reason for this performance is an increased share of audits 
on newly approved factories. New factories 
usually have a lower compliance level and affect the overall audit results accordingly.  
All factories not complying with this requirement have developed action plans and 
we are confident to identify broad compliance 
during the coming second head audit.
Does the basic salary 
amount to at least the legal 
minimum wage for normal working hours?88%
 90% 90% CSR team EuropeIn order to provide sustainable improvements, we have initiated a "CoC Responsible Training Project" including interactive workshops. We 
have in addition encouraged our suppliers to 
take responsibility and supported them in building monitoring and remediation systems. 
Does the treated waste 
water quality meet 
requirements in local legislation and/or BSR guidelines whichever is  
more stringent?62%
 81% 75% CSR team EuropeAlthough we achieved our target, we will continue to focus on sustaining this good development in existing, as well as new 
factories in 2011.REGION: EMEA
ISSUE Compliance 2009 Compliance 2010 Target 2010 Responsible COMMENTRemediation of 
regional critical non-compliance issuesIn progress
Unfulfilled
Fulfilled
CONTENTS 134
 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
2010 S UPPLY  CHAIN  TARGET 
fOLLOW  UP
Remediation of 
regional critical non-compliance issues 
(continued)
Grievance systems 15%
  29% 36% CSR team 
South AsiaWe put a high focus on grievance systems during our audits and also work to improve related management systems. In Bangladesh our Rights & Responsibility awareness films 
has been continued to be used both, new 
and existing supplier factories. This has led to a better understanding of the importance of a well functioning grievance system. Whilest we’ve made substantial 
improvement we have not fully achieved  
our target and will continue to focus on 
promoting effective grievance systems.
Overtime hours 17%
 20% 25% CSR team South AsiaWe continued our long-term oriented project with selected key suppliers to understand and remedy the root causes of overtime.  
We also extended this project from 9 factories in Bangladesh, to additional 8 
factories in India and one in Pakistan.
Is sick leave duly granted? 78%
 87% 82% CSR team 
South AsiaWe exceeded our target by 5 percent points. We will continue to focus on this issue for new factories to sustain this progress.ISSUEREGION: S OUTH  ASIA
Compliance 2009 Compliance 2010 Target 2010 Responsible COMMENTIn progress
Unfulfilled
Fulfilled
CONTENTS 135
 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
Have the workers who 
regularly handle chemical been trained in safe 
chemical handling?32%
 50% 62% CSR team 
South AsiaWe focused on this question during our audits and provided thorough education to our suppliers. This led to significantly improved compliance. However, as we did 
not meet our target, we will continue to 
focus on this issue in 2011. 
Does the treated waste water quality meet requirements in local 
legislation and/or BSR 
guidelines, whichever is  
the more stringent?72%
 80% 86% CSR team South AsiaWe took random waste water samples and conducted quality tests to measure fulfilment of our requirements. Where results were below the required standard, 
factories had to submit a credible action 
plan. We will continue to monitor the water testing quality, in addition to the mandatory testing done by factories themselves.2010 S UPPLY  CHAIN  TARGET 
fOLLOW  UP
Remediation of regional critical non-compliance issues 
(continued)REGION: S OUTH  ASIA
ISSUE Compliance 2009 Compliance 2010 Target 2010 Responsible COMMENTIn progress
Unfulfilled
Fulfilled
CONTENTS 136
 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
2010 S UPPLY  CHAIN  TARGET 
fOLLOW  UP
Remediation of 
regional critical non-compliance issues 
(continued)
Does the basic salary  
at least amount to the 
minimum wage for  
regular working hours?66%  88% 75% CSR team Far EastWorking towards a more transparent wage structure in China has been a core focus of 
our work. You can read more about this in 
this report. Consequently, compliance has increased substantially and we exceeded our target by far. 
During 2010 we conducted a total of 278 
head audits in the Far East region (216 of them 
in China). Out of these, 66% were head audits 
on new factories which H&M had not placed orders with before. Usually, new factories show a lower compliance than our long-term 
partners. This affects our audit data in this 
region with a lower compliance level for 2010. We expect improved results as soon as these new factories have fulfilled their first audit cycles and entered their second head audit in 
2011. The reasons for the high number of 
audits at new factories is mainly the continued growth of H&M, resulting in overall increased sourcing. Additionally, we have phased out suppliers that we believe will not be able to 
meet our social and environmental 
compliance expectations in the future.Do all workers have employment contracts?61%
 59% 70% CSR team Far East
Is overtime compensated 
according to the law 
regarding piece rate workers?20%
 17% 20% CSR team Far East
Have the workers who regularly handle chemicals 
been trained in safe 
chemical handling?55%
 55% 65% CSR team Far East
Does the treated waste 
water quality meet 
requirements in local legislation and/or BSR guidelines whichever  
is the more stringent?80%
 62% 80% CSR team Far EastREGION: FAR EAST
ISSUE Compliance 2009 Compliance 2010 Target 2010 COMMENT ResponsibleIn progress
Unfulfilled
Fulfilled
CONTENTS 137
 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
Environmental  
target follow up 2010 ENVIRONMENTAL TARGET 
fOLLOW UP 
Organic cotton mix in all of our flower  
eco labelled baby garments 2010 All EU flower eco-labelled garments now contain 
between three and 100% organic cotton.
Increase amount of organic cotton  
used by 50% each year compared  
to the previous year`s goal 2013 2010 target of 4.500 tonnes exceeded by far (15.100 tonnes used in 2010).
Use first Better Cotton (BCI) for  
H&M products
  2010 First Better Cotton has been harvested in 2010/2011 season. Procurement from this season will happen  
in 2011. 
All cotton to come from sustainable sources (such as Better Cotton,  
organic cotton, recycled cotton)
  2020 We are progressing well against this target. The use of organic cotton continued to increase substantially. Better Cotton from the first harvesting season will be integrated into our products from 2011 on.
Initiate supply chain carbon footprint monitoring
 2010 Baseline data collection for important suppliers on major markets collected. Further steps to follow. 
Test out energy-efficient solutions  
in conjunction with the building of  
a new warehouse  2010 The new DC in Belgium will be LEED-certified and equipped with photovoltaics. The building starts operations in spring 2011. 
Reduce the H&M group’s carbon  
dioxide emissions relative to sales  
(MSEK) by minimum 5% per year compared to the previous year  2010-2012 Achieved through high quality offsets.
Reduction of energy use in stores  
by 20 % per square metre 
 2020 So far achieved an 8% reduction for H&M stores, compared to 2007 baseline.
At least 20 % of energy use in stores  
from renewable energy sources 
  2020 In progress. Read more at Renewable energy use (LINK ).In progress
Unfulfilled
Fulfilled
CONTENTS 138
 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
CONSCIOUS  ACTION  
PLAN  2011
1. PROVIDE FASHION FOR CONSCIOUS CUSTOMERS
Buying:  Introduce our first garments with Better 
Cotton (BCI)
Buying:  Revise our strategy on organic cotton 
Buying:  Further internal education on more sustainable 
materialsBuying:  Continous development of Conscious Products
CSR Support:  Support production teams (Quality 
assurance and product development) in environmental 
optimisation 
CSR Support:  Identify additional research areas within 
the area of more sustainable materials
CSR Support:  Continued focus on water saving measures 
in production
CSR Support and Quality:  Identify further alternative 
chemicals for substitution
CSR Support: Further develop traceability methods for 
the raw materials we use 
CSR Support: Develop strategy for garment recyclingSales: Provide training on H&M Conscious Actions and 
Products to sales staff
Sales: Develop and distribute our “green material guide”
Production India:  Engage 4–5 suppliers in BCI and 
establish a working method for using the cotton in 
production.
2. CHO OSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS
Marketing:  Start auditing print suppliers
Construction:  Contractors to sign Code of Conduct
Logistics: Include Code of Conduct in contracts with 
logistic service providers
CSR Support: Benchmark against ISO26000
CSR Support: FLA fair wage project in China, India 
and Bangladesh
CSR Support: Evaluate opportunities for closer 
co-operation with ITGWLF
CSR Support: Establish framework for the use of 
manpower services organisationsAs outlined in our strategy, we are working 
towards sustainability become a fully integrated responsibility, shared by all the different departments in our organisation. Therefore, in 2010 we gathered hundreds  
of suggestions for additional Conscious Actions from around the company to support delivery of our commitments. Our CSR Support team has reviewed these together with the departments responsible for the actions. The outcome is our Conscious Actions Plan 2011. It describes a number of smaller and bigger actions that we aim  
to take during the year in addition to the actions, targets and goals you can already read about throughout this report. Y ou  
can read how far we have come in our  
2011 report.
CONTENTS 139
 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
CSR Support: Strengthen internal and external EHS 
competence through further training and appoint an EHS 
competence center in our organisation
CSR Support and Production:  Establish framework for 
the development of our FAP audit programme towards 
increased supplier ownership
Production Bangladesh:  Contribute to increased fire 
safety in Bangladesh in co-operation with various 
stakeholders, develop fire prevention films, address  
among others electrical safety, fire licence issuing
Production Bangladesh:  Include workers in H&S audits 
as part of Fire Safety Project
Production Bangladesh:  Conduct study on existing 
wage structuresProduction Bangladesh:  Continue to request regular 
wage reviews and discuss further actions with different 
stakeholders
Production Bangladesh:  Conduct research on unions 
and worker-management communication 
Production Bangladesh:  Include all our key suppliers in 
project to tackle excessive overtimeProduction Bangladesh:  Secure further integration of 
audit results in sourcing process (ICOC)Production Bangladesh:  Chemical training for middle 
management and establishing an EHS responsible in all  
Key factories
Production Bangladesh:  Continue to follow up on worker 
awareness films
Production India:  Cover 100% of key suppliers in 
Bangalore with worker awareness filmsProduction India:  Engage chosen key suppliers in supplier 
ownership programmes
Production Turkey:  Support establishment of EHS 
responsibles at factory level
Production China:  Initiate HR training for selected 
suppliersProduction China:  Investigate the possibility of launching 
a grievance hotline with selected suppliers
Production China:  Conduct gap analysis of risks of human 
rights violations and forced labour in the supply chain 
Production Indonesia:  Initiate workshop for suppliers 
on freedom of association together with ILO.CONSCIOUS  ACTION  
PLAN  2011
CONTENTS 140
 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
3. BE ETHICAL
HR: Start the work with building an H&M Academy
HR: Secure good and stable succession planning by 
evaluating and identifying current and future need for 
talented people and leaders
HR: Introduce a training ladder and synchronise with 
our roles
H&M:  Continous activities to reach zero breaches 
of our Code of EthicsProduction:  Continue to conduct Code of Ethics 
seminars and workshops with all our suppliers
Production:  Introduce SRM (suppliers relationship 
management) programme.4. BE CLIMATE SMART
Buying:  Complement our garments’ care/washing 
instructions with a climate smarter alternative
Logistics:  Investigate possibilities to shift mode of 
transport from road to rail for tradelanes from our DC’s  
to as close to our stores as possible
Logistics:  Evaluate pilot for shipping goods by rail from 
Shanghai to Hamburg and look into possibilities of 
upscaling this 
Construction:  Use LED light for all new store signs 
Production:  Expand Supplier Energy Efficuency 
Programme to include 100-120 factories.CONSCIOUS  ACTION  
PLAN  2011
CONTENTS 141
 H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010
CONSCIOUS  ACTION  
PLAN  2011
5. REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE
Production:  Map waste flows at first tier suppliers
Construction Department:  Develop best practice 
guidelines for handling of construction waste.
6. USE NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLY
Production:  Conduct water scarcity studies in different 
sourcing markets
Interior, Marketing, Visual Merchandising, Quality & 
CSR Support:  Develop and implement environmental 
guidelines for sourcing of non-commercial goods 
Interior, Marketing, Visual Merchandising & Quality: 
Develop and implement chemical restrictions for suppliers 
of non-commercial goods 
Marketing:  Increase the traceability of pulp when 
purchasing paper/paper productsProduction Bangladesh:  Identify ETP environmental 
best practices. 7. STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIES
CSR Support:  Investigate opportunities to expand All 
for Children to other countries
Production Bangladesh:  Proceed with developing a 
five-year plan to further support a positive development  
in Bangladesh, including initiatives like and All For Children 
project and the expansion of our Training Centre Model.
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 142GRI CONTENT INDE x  
AND  APPLICA TION  LEVEL
This index is organised using the G3 
(3rd Generation) Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines. The Apparel 
and Footwear Sector Supplement 
Indicators, in pilot form, have also been considered and are highlighted in green text. The United Nations 
Global Compact (UNGC) Principles 
are referenced below. The disclosure 
level against the G3 framework is B (self-declared).BAC kGROUND TO THE GRI 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING 
GUIDELINES
The following key has been used to 
show the extent of report coverage  
in both tables:Full coverage 
No Coverage Partial coverageNot relevant 
OUTCOME:
CONTENTS
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 143
1. STRATEGY  AND  ANALYSIS
1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation about 
the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and its strategy.A message from our CEO
1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. A message from our CEO; Global presence, global impact and reach; 
Interview with Helena 
Helmersson
Commentary 
on 1.2Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities: Where applicable,  
this should include an assessment of supply chain performance.A message from our CEO; 
Global presence, global impact and reach; 
Interview with Helena 
Helmersson 
2. O RGANISATIONAL  PROFILE
2.1 Name of the organisation.
Global presence, global impact and reach
2.2Primary brands, products, and/or services.
Global presence, global impact and reach
2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including main divisions,  
operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. www.hm.com/annualreport
2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters.
www.hm.com/annualreport
2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant  
to the sustainability issues covered in the report. www.hm.com/annualreport; performance appendixFull coverage
Partial coverageNo coverage
Not relevant
INDICATOR DESCRIPTIONExTENT OF 
REPORTING 
COVERAGE LOCATION LINKS UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTES
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 144
2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. www.hm.com/
annualreport
2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). www.hm.com/annualreport
2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation, including:
• Number of employees;•  Net sales (for private sector organisations) or net revenues  
(for public sector organisations);
•  Total capitalisation broken down in terms of debt and equity  
(for private sector organisations); and
• Quantity of products or services provided.A message from our CEO; 
www.hm.com/annualreport
2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure,  
or ownership. A message from our CEO
2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Data centres
3. R EPORT  PARAMETERS
REPORT  PROFILE
3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. How we report
3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). How we report
3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). How we report
3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. FeedbackINDICATOR DESCRIPTIONExTENT OF 
REPORTING 
COVERAGE LOCATION LINKS UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTESFull coverage
Partial coverage
No coverage
Not relevant
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 145
REPORT  SCOPE  AND  BOUNDARY
3.5 Process for defining report content
• Our commitments 
• Prioritising topics within the report; and • Identifying stakeholders the organisation expects to use the report.Vision, Policy and Strategy;  
Seven commitments
3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers).
How we report
3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. How we report
3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, 
outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect 
comparability from period to period and/or between organisations.How we report
3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the indicators and other information in the report. Performance appendix; designing our carbon dioxide reduction target
3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided  
in earlier reports, and the reasons for such restatement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business,  
measurement methods).How we report; Performance appendix
3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report.
How we report; Performance appendix
GRI C ONTENT  INDE x
3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report.INDICATOR DESCRIPTIONExTENT OF 
REPORTING 
COVERAGE LOCATION LINKS UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTESFull coverage
Partial coverage
No coverage
Not relevant
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 146
ASSURANCE
3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance  
for the report. Assurance
4. G OVERNANCE
4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees under the 
highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational oversight.Corporate Governance Report
4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an 
executive officer (and, if so, their function within the organisation’s 
management and the reasons for this arrangement).Corporate Governance Report
4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of 
members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or 
non-executive members.Corporate Governance Report
4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations 
or direction to the highest governance body. Corporate Governance 
Report
4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organisation’s performance (including social and environmental 
performance).Corporate Governance 
Report
4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts  
of interest are avoided.Corporate Governance Report
4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members  
of the highest governance body for guiding the organisation’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. Corporate Governance ReportINDICATOR DESCRIPTIONExTENT OF 
REPORTING 
COVERAGE LOCATION LINKS UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTESFull coverage
Partial coverage
No coverage
Not relevant
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 147
4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct,  
and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance 
and the status of their implementation.About H&M; Code of Conduct; Code of Ethics
4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organisation’s 
identification and management of economic, environmental, and social 
performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence  
or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct,  
and principles.Corporate Governance Report
4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social 
performance. Corporate Governance 
Report
COMMITMENTS  TO ExTERNAL  INITIATIVES
4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle  
is addressed by the organisation.Sustainability Policy
4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes  
or endorses.Memberships; Throughout the report
4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or  
national/international advocacy organisations.Memberships; 
Throughout the report
4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation.
Memberships; Working in 
partnership, Throughout the report
4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage.
Sustainability Strategy; Sustainability PolicyINDICATOR DESCRIPTIONExTENT OF 
REPORTING 
COVERAGE LOCATION LINKS UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTESFull coverage
Partial coverage
No coverage
Not relevant
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 148
4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of 
engagement by type and by stakeholder group.Sustainability Policy; Memberships and indexes; Working in 
partnership; Collective 
Action; Collaborating with transport providers; Employee relations; Community partners
4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting.
Our commitments; Assurance, Working in partnership; Donation of 
garments; Throughout  
the report
5. M ANAGEMENT  APPROACH  AND  PERFORMANCE  INDICATORS
SUPPLY  CHAIN  STANDARDS  AND  PRACTICES  SECTION
DMA Management Approach Disclosures
Choose and reward 
responsible partners; Sustainability Policy 
ASPECT : CODE  OF CONDUCT
AF1 Code of conduct content and coverage. **
Our Code of Conduct
ASPECT : AUDIT  PROCESS
AF2 Parties and personnel engaged in code of conduct compliance function.** Monitoring and grading
AF3 Compliance audit process.** Monitoring and gradingINDICATOR DESCRIPTIONExTENT OF 
REPORTING 
COVERAGE LOCATION LINKS UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTESFull coverage
Partial coverage
No coverage
Not relevant
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 149
ASPECT : GRIEVANCE  PROCEDURES
AF4 Policy and procedures for receiving, investigating, and responding  
to grievances and complaints.**
Monitoring and grading; 
Raising workers’ awareness on their rights; 
Employee relations
ASPECT : CAPACITY  BUILDING
AF5 Strategy and scope of efforts to strengthen capacity of management, 
workers and other staff to improve in social and environmental performance.** Beyond monitoring; Training and communication on 
sustainability
ASPECT : BUSINESS  INTEGRATION
AF6 Policies for supplier selection, management, and termination.**
Introducing and index-
based grading system – ICoC; Responsible 
purchasing and supplier 
relations
ASPECT : CODE  OF CONDUCT
AF7 Number and location of workplaces covered by code of conduct.**
Choose and reward responsible partners;  
Our supply chain;  
Our Code of ConductINDICATOR DESCRIPTIONExTENT OF 
REPORTING 
COVERAGE LOCATION LINKS UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTESFull coverage
Partial coverage
No coverage
Not relevant
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 150
ASPECT : AUDIT  PROCESS
AF8 Number of audits conducted and percentage of workplaces audited.** Monitoring Results
ASPECT : NON-COMPLIANCE  FINDINGS
AF9 Incidents of non-compliance with legal requirements or collective  
bargaining agreements on wages.**Monitoring Results
AF10 Incidents of non-compliance with overtime standards.**
AF11 Incidents of non-compliance with standards on pregnancy and  
maternity rights.**Monitoring Results
AF12 Incidents of the use of child labour.** Monitoring Results
AF13 Incidents of non-compliance with standards on gender discrimination.** Monitoring Results
AF14 Incidents of non-compliance with code of conduct.** Monitoring Results
AF15 Analysis of data from code compliance audits.** Monitoring Results
ASPECT : REMEDIATION
AF16 Remediation practices to address non-compliance findings.** Monitoring and grading
ASPECT : BUSINESS  INTEGRATION
AF17 Actions to identify and mitigate business practices that affect  
code compliance.**Responsible purchasing 
and supplier developmentINDICATOR DESCRIPTIONExTENT OF 
REPORTING 
COVERAGE LOCATION LINKS UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTESFull coverage
Partial coverage
No coverage
Not relevant
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 151
ECONOMIC  PERFORMANCE  INDICATORS
ASPECT : ECONOMIC  PERFORMANCE
DMA Management Approach Disclosures A message from our  
CEO; About H&M;  
Annual Report
EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, 
operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community 
investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments.Annual Report
EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the  
organisation’s activities due to climate change.Be climate smart;  
Annual Report 7
EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations. Annual Report
EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government.
ASPECT : MARKET  PRESENCE
EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. (Additional indicator)
EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers  
at significant locations of operation.
EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of significant operation.INDICATOR DESCRIPTIONExTENT OF 
REPORTING 
COVERAGE LOCATION LINKS UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTESFull coverage
Partial coverage
No coverage
Not relevant
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 152
GRI CONTENT INDE x
ExTENT OF 
REPORTING 
COVERAGE
ASPECT : INDIRECT  ECONOMIC  IMPACTS
EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services 
provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or  
pro bono engagement.A message from our  
CEO; Strengthening 
communities
EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. (Additional indicator) A message from our CEO; Global presence, global  impact and reach
ENVIRONMENTAL  PERFORMANCE  INDICATORS
DMA Management Approach disclosures
Sustainability Policy
ASPECT : MATERIALS
AF18 Programs to replace organic-based adhesives and primers with  
water-based adhesives and primers.Phasing out solvent-based adhesives
AF19 Practices to source safer alternative substances to those on the restricted substances list, including description of associated management systems.
Product safety & quality; Chemical management
EN1 Materials used by weight or volume.
Raw materials  8 We disclose the total  
use of organic cotton and recycled materials. We do not disclose total 
material volumes due to 
competitive reasons.
Commentary 
on EN1Materials used by weight or volume:
–  Including use of pumice, stones and sand under Compilation 2.1 on 
“Associated process materials”
– Reporting on pumice, stones, and sand by weight under Compilation 2.3.INDICATOR DESCRIPTION LOCATION LINKS UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTESFull coverage
Partial coverage
No coverage
Not relevant
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 153
NOTES
EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials.
 Other more sustainable 
materials 8, 9 We disclose the total  
use of recycled materials. We do not provide percentages due 
to competitive reasons.
AF20 List of environmentally preferable materials used in apparel and  
footwear products.
Recycled and organic 
materials at H&M
ASPECT : ENERGY
EN3Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Emissions performance 2010  8
EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Emissions performance 2010  8
AF21 Amount of energy consumed and percentage of the energy that is from renewable sources. Emissions performance 2010; Renewable  
energy use 8, 9
EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements.  
(Additional indicator)Energy efficiency performance 2010  8, 9
EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. (Additional indicator) Renewable energy use  8, 9
EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. 
(Additional indicator)Emissions performance 
2010; Transport; Supplier Energy Efficiency 
Programmes 8, 9INDICATOR DESCRIPTIONExTENT OF 
REPORTING 
COVERAGE LOCATION LINKS UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) Full coverage
Partial coverage
No coverage
Not relevant
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 154
ASPECT : WATER
EN8 Total water withdrawal by source.
 Water  8 Supplier water usage per 
kg of products.
EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water.  
(Additional indicator)
Supplier water  
efficiency 8
EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused.  
(Additional indicator)
Our direct operations  8
ASPECT : BIODIVERSITY
EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside  
protected areas.In most cases, we rent locations in central urban locations. Accordingly, we do not consider 
reporting on this 
indicator as material. 
EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas.
Use natural resources responsibly; Organic Cotton; Better Cotton 
Initiative 8
EN13 Habitats protected or restored. (Additional indicator)
EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on 
biodiversity. (Additional indicator)Organic Cotton; Better Cotton Initiative; Materials from animals and wood  8INDICATOR DESCRIPTIONExTENT OF 
REPORTING 
COVERAGE LOCATION LINKS UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTESFull coverage
Partial coverage
No coverage
Not relevant
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 155
EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with 
habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. (Additional indicator)
ASPECT : EMISSIONS , EFFLUENTS , AND  WASTE
EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Emissions performance 2010  8
EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Emissions performance 2010 8
EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 
(Additional)Reducing greenhouse  
gas emissions; Emissions 
performance 2010 7, 8, 9
EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight.
EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight.
EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination.
 Supplier wastewater quality  8 Supplier waste  
water quality
Commentary 
on EN21Total water discharge by quality and destination:
For Footwear: Reporting on total chromium discharges under  
Compilation 2.3
For Apparel: Reporting on the discharge of antimony, arsenic, cadmium, 
Compilation 2.3. To be following the appropriate International Organisation for Standardisation (ISO) analytical method or its equivalent.
Water
EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method.
Commentary 
on EN22Total weight of waste by type and disposal method: 
Report on pumice, stones and sand under Compilation 2.1
EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills.INDICATOR DESCRIPTIONExTENT OF 
REPORTING 
COVERAGE LOCATION LINKS UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTESFull coverage
Partial coverage
No coverage
Not relevant
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 156
EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed 
hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. (Additional 
indicator)
EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and 
related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organisation’s discharges of water and runoff. (Additional indicator)
ASPECT : PRODUCTS  AND  SERVICES
EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services,  
and extent of impact mitigation.
Conscious Products  7, 8, 9
Commentary 
on EN26Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services,  
and extent of impact mitigation:
In addition to Compilation 2.2, report on specific programs to reduce 
environmental impact of products, including but not limited to 
manufacturing, product use, and packaging use at the design and conceptualisation stages. Report also on the use of recycled materials  
and the recyclability of products and packaging. Report quantitatively  
where possible.A message from our CEO; Conscious products; Product safety and 
Quality; Be climate smart; 
Reduce, reuse, recycle; Use natural resources responsibly
EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category.
ASPECT : COMPLIANCE
EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary 
sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations.INDICATOR DESCRIPTIONExTENT OF 
REPORTING 
COVERAGE LOCATION LINKS UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTESFull coverage
Partial coverage
No coverage
Not relevant
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 157
ASPECT : TRANSPORT
EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods 
and materials used for the organisation’s operations, and transporting 
members of the workforce. (Additional indicator)Transport  8
ASPECT : OVERALL
EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. (Additional indicator)
 Better Cotton Initiative  8, 9
LABO UR PRACTICES  AND  DECENT  WORK  PERFORMANCE  INDICATORS
DMA Management Approach disclosures Be ethical
Include the use of foreign migrant workers. Our Code of Conduct; Monitoring ResultsRelevant to our  
supply chain. 
ASPECT : EMPLOYMENT
AF22 Policy and practices regarding the use of employees with non-permanent and non-full-time status.**
Diversity and equality
AF23 Policy regarding the use of home working.** Home working Relevant to our  
supply chain only.
AF24 Policy on the use and selection of labour brokers, including adherence  
to relevant ILO Conventions.**
Our Code of Conduct, Home working; Sumangali Scheme - IndiaINDICATOR DESCRIPTIONExTENT OF 
REPORTING 
COVERAGE LOCATION LINKS UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTESFull coverage
Partial coverage
No coverage
Not relevant
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 158
ASPECT : WAGES  AND  HOURS
AF25 Policy and practices on wage deductions that are not mandated by law.**
 Our Code of Conduct; 
Towards changing wage structures in China
AF26 Policy on working hours, including definition of overtime, and actions  
to prevent excessive and forced overtime.** Our Code of Conduct; Workers’ awareness films in Bangladesh and India
ASPECT : DIVERSITY  AND  EQUAL  OPPORTUNITIES
AF27 Policy and actions to protect the pregnancy and maternity rights  
of women workers.**
Our Code of Conduct; Workers’ awareness films in Bangladesh and India
ASPECT : EMPLOYMENT
LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region.
A fair partner to  
our colleagues;  
Annual Report
LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender,  
and region.
LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary 
or part-time employees, by major operations. (Additional indicator)As various local 
regulations and standards apply we  
do not aggregate  
data on Group level.
AF28 Percentage of foreign migrant workers as a portion of total workforce, broken down by region.INDICATOR DESCRIPTIONExTENT OF 
REPORTING 
COVERAGE LOCATION LINKS UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTESFull coverage
Partial coverage
No coverage
Not relevant
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 159
ASPECT : LABO UR/MANAGEMENT  RELATIONS
LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Employee relations  1, 3
LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether 
it is specified in collective agreements.As various local regulations and standards apply we  
do not aggregate data  
on Group level.
AF29 Percentage of workplaces where there is one or more independent trade union(s), broken down by:
- Workplaces with a collective bargaining agreement- Workplaces without a collective bargaining agreement
Also provide information broken down by country.
Employee relations; Mediating industrial dialogue in Cambodia
AF30 Percentage of workplaces where, in the absence of a trade union, there are worker-management committees, broken down by country. 
Raising workers’ awareness on their rights
ASPECT : OCCUPATIONAL  HEALTH  AND  SAFETY
LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advice on 
occupational health and safety programs.(Additional indicator)
LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and 
number of work-related fatalities by region.INDICATOR DESCRIPTIONExTENT OF 
REPORTING 
COVERAGE LOCATION LINKS UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTESFull coverage
Partial coverage
No coverage
Not relevant
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 160
Commentary 
on LA7Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and 
number of work-related fatalities by region: 
–  Include health issues associated with reduced lung function due to dust 
in “Occupational disease rate” under Compilation 2.4.
–  Include risk assessments and preventative measures for accidents and 
injuries under Compilation 2.7.
Monitoring results; Joint Assessments; Banning sandblasting of textilesNarrative coverage  
in regard to our  
supply chain.
AF31 Initiatives and programs to respond to, reduce, and prevent the occurrence of musculoskeletal disorders.
LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases.
LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. (Additional indicator)
Employee relations  1 Formal agreements  
with trade union are handled locally and  
data is not aggregated  
at Group level.
ASPECT : TRAINING  AND  EDUCATION
LA10 Average hours of training per year, per employee, by employee category.
Training & development
LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career 
endings. (Additional indicator)Training & development
LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. (Additional indicator) Training & developmentINDICATOR DESCRIPTIONExTENT OF 
REPORTING 
COVERAGE LOCATION LINKS UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTESFull coverage
Partial coverage
No coverage
Not relevant
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 161
ASPECT : DIVERSITY  AND  EQUAL  OPPORTUNITY
LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per 
category according to gender, age group, minority group membership,  
and other indicators of diversity.
Diversity and equality  1, 6 Breakdown of board  
and other management 
categories according  
to gender.
LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. Performance appendix  1, 6 Please note that due to changes in our data system, 2009 full year data is provided. We will 
continue reporting 
updated figures with our coming reports.
AF32 Actions to address gender discrimination and to provide opportunities for the advancement of women workers.
Diversity and equality  1, 6
HUMAN  RIGHTS  PERFORMANCE  INDICATORS
DMA Management Approach disclosures Sustainability Policy; Our Code of Conduct
ASPECT : INVESTMENT  AND  PROCUREMENT  PRACTICES
HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights 
screening. Choose and reward 
responsible partners; Our Code of Conduct 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6
HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. Our Code of Conduct; Monitoring and grading  1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6INDICATOR DESCRIPTIONExTENT OF 
REPORTING 
COVERAGE LOCATION LINKS UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTESFull coverage
Partial coverage
No coverage
Not relevant
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 162
HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning 
aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. (Additional indicator)
Training and communication on sustainability; 
Responsible purchasing 
and supplier relations 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 Narrative description of training and communication activities provided.
ASPECT : NON-DISCRIMINATION
HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken.
Monitoring results  1, 2, 6 Violations against our discrimination policy in our own operation are handled locally and data 
is not aggregated on 
Group level. As non-compliances detected in our supplier factories are 
part of our global 
supplier audit data related data is reported.
ASPECT : FREEDOM  OF ASSOCIATION  AND  COLLECTIVE  BARGAINING 
HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights.
Employee relations;  
Our Code of Conduct; Monitoring and grading; 
Beyond Monitoring;  
FLA worker participation 
project 1, 2, 3INDICATOR DESCRIPTIONExTENT OF 
REPORTING 
COVERAGE LOCATION LINKS UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTESFull coverage
Partial coverage
No coverage
Not relevant
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 163
ASPECT : CHILD  LABOUR
HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour, 
and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labour.Our Code of Conduct; 
Monitoring and grading; Cotton from Uzbekistan; 
All for Children 1, 2, 5
ASPECT : FORCED  AND  COMPULSORY  LABOUR
HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or 
compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced  
or compulsory labour.Our Code of Conduct; Monitoring and grading  1, 3, 4
ASPECT : SECURITY  PRACTICES
HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organisation’s policies or 
procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to 
operations. (Additional indicator)
ASPECT : INDIGENOUS  RIGHTS
HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken.
SOCIETY  PERFORMANCE  INDICATORS
DMA Management Approach disclosures Sustainability Policy, Strengthening CommunitiesINDICATOR DESCRIPTIONExTENT OF 
REPORTING 
COVERAGE LOCATION LINKS UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTESFull coverage
Partial coverage
No coverage
Not relevant
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 164
ASPECT : COMMUNITY
SO1 Nature, scope and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess 
and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, 
operating and exiting.Strengthening communities
AF33 Priorities in community investment strategy.
Policy and focus
AF34 Amount of investment in worker communities broken down by location. Our community investments 2010  
at a glance
ASPECT : CORRUPTION
SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks related  
to corruption. Code of Ethics  10
SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. Code of Ethics  10
SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Code of Ethics  10
ASPECT : PUBLIC  POLICY
SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development  
and lobbying.Political contribution and lobbying; Working in partnership – influencing 
public policy   1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 
7, 8, 9, 10INDICATOR DESCRIPTIONExTENT OF 
REPORTING 
COVERAGE LOCATION LINKS UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTESFull coverage
Partial coverage
No coverage
Not relevant
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 165
Commentary 
on SO5Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and 
lobbying:Report public policy position on the inclusion of labour and environmental 
protections in trade agreements and the degree to which lobbying positions 
integrate considerations about the potential effects on workers, communities, and organisations in the supply chain under Compilation 2.3Political contributions and lobbying; Working in partnership – influencing 
public policy  1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 
7, 8, 9, 10
SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country (Additional indicator) Political contribution  
and lobbying 10
ASPECT : ANTI-COMPETITIVE  BEHAVIOUR
SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. (Additional indicator)
ASPECT : COMPLIANCE
SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations.
PRODUCT  RESPONSIBILITY  PERFORMANCE  INDICATORS
DMA Management Approach disclosures Provide fashion for conscious customers
ASPECT : CUSTOMER  HEALTH  AND  SAFETY
PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services 
are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and 
services categories subject to such procedures.
Quality Assurance  1INDICATOR DESCRIPTIONExTENT OF 
REPORTING 
COVERAGE LOCATION LINKS UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTESFull coverage
Partial coverage
No coverage
Not relevant
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 166
PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary 
codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. (Additional indicator)
ASPECT  : PRODUCT  AND  SERVICE  LABELLING  
PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements.
 REACH 
PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes. (Additional indicator)
PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. (Additional indicator)
ASPECT : MARKETING  COMMUNICATIONS
PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes  
related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion,  
and sponsorship.Responsible Marketing
PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary 
codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, 
promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes.
ASPECT : CUSTOMER  PRIVACY
PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer 
privacy and losses of customer data. (Additional indicator)INDICATOR DESCRIPTIONExTENT OF 
REPORTING 
COVERAGE LOCATION LINKS UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTESFull coverage
Partial coverage
No coverage
Not relevant
CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 167
ASPECT : COMPLIANCE
PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and 
regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services.
CROSS -CUTTING  COMMENTARY 
Apparel and Footwear Sector Specific
ASPECT : CAPACITY  BUILDING
Commentary for “Training and Education” in the Environment, Labour, 
Human Rights, Society, and Product Responsibility Disclosure on Management Approach sections: This guidance applies to employees 
internal to the reporting organisation. Indicator AF5 refers to training and 
education programs in workplaces within the reporting organisation’s  
supply chain.A message from our  
CEO; Training and 
communication on 
sustainability
** Reporting organisations must also include entities that they monitor (i.e., those defined as under significant influence by the Report Boundary guidance).INDICATOR DESCRIPTIONExTENT OF 
REPORTING 
COVERAGE LOCATION LINKS UNGC PRINCIPLE(S) NOTESFull coverage
Partial coverage
No coverage
Not relevant
