OUR PRODUCTS  
PAGE 37
OUR COLLEAGUES 
PAGE 44
OUR COMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTS  
PAGE 51OUR BUSINESS  PAGE 1
OUR SUPPLY CHAIN 
PAGE 14
OUR ENVIRONMENT 
PAGE 27CONTENTS H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        1
OUR BUSINESS
H&M’s   business concept is to offer our customers fashion and quality at the best 
price. At H&M, quality is more than making sure that products meet or 
exceed our customers’ expectations – it also means that these products should be manufactured 
under good working conditions and with limited impact on the environment. 
Taking responsibility for how our operations affect people and the environment is key for H&M’s 
continued profitability and growth. We are committed to integrating social and environmental concerns into all our business operations and investing in the communities where we work.
Our 2008 sustainability report covers our activities in relation to our business operations, our 
supply chain, our products and how they are produced, our employees and the communities 
around us. 
This section provides an overview of our business and its impact, and how we go about 
integrating Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) into it. 
GLOBAL BRAND GLOBAL IMPACT AND REACH
H&M was established in Sweden in 1947 and today sells clothes, accessories, footwear and cosmetics in more than 1,700 stores in 33 countries and via internet and catalogue sales in 
Scandinavia, the Netherlands, Germany and Austria. 
Here, we will also sell home textiles through online and catalogue sales from 2009. H&M also 
stands behind the brand COS and acquired the majority of shares of FaBric Scandinavien AB with its brands Cheap Monday, Weekday and Monki. 
Given our global presence, we have a responsibility to societies around the world and the 
communities where we operate. This means integrating social and environmental concerns into 
all our business operations to reduce negative impacts and maximise positive ones. 
We do not own or operate any factories producing our goods, but instead work with 
approximately 800 suppliers and around 2,700 production units in total, mainly in Asia and 
Europe. The number of suppliers reflects those which received orders from H&M in 2008 as  
well as those which could potentially have received orders and therefore have been part of our regular audit programme.
  H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        2
business highlights of 2008
•  Opened 214 stores. Also acquired 20 stores of the brands 
Weekday and Monki.
• Opened our first stores in Japan. The opening exceeded our 
high sales expectations making it the most successful store opening ever at H&M.
• Other new markets: Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and Oman (all through franchise).
• Announced we are entering Russia in spring 2009, Lebanon during 2009 and Israel and South Korea in 2010.
• Acquired the majority of the shares of FaBric Scandinavien AB – the company behind the brands Cheap Monday, Weekday and Monki.
• Sales excluding VAT amounted to SEK 88,532 million, an increase of 13%.
• High-profile design collection, in collaboration with Comme 
des Garçons, was very well appreciated by our customers.
• Profit in 2008 rose 11% to SEK 21,190 million.
• Collaboration with stars like Rihanna, Timbaland and fashion designer Katharine Hamnett and the organisations 
Designers Against AIDS and YouthAIDS for our first ‘Fashion Against AIDS’ collection, raising awareness about HIV/AIDS, 
generated SEK 15 million (approximately $1.8 million) in 
donations for global HIV prevention projects.
• New sustainable materials tested in addition to our organic cotton range, which was extended in 2008 to include: organic 
wool, recycled wool and recycled polyester.
FROM COTTON TO CUSTOMER
Our vision is for H&M to be run in an economically, socially 
and environmentally sustainable way. To do this we look at the 
complete cycle of our operations, from how our suppliers 
produce our garments, shoes, accessories, cosmetics and home textiles to the customer’s experience of using them.
We focus on areas where we can make the most difference and 
that are within our sphere of influence. These are our own 
operations and transport as well as the suppliers with whom we have a direct business relationship. 
However, we also see a need to influence stages further down 
our production chain, such as raw material production or fabric 
manufacture. We are currently looking at how we can increase our limited influence here. One way is through partnership with 
others and another is by capacity building, for example through 
our Cleaner Production Programme. 
Find out more about how we work with Our Supply Chain.OUR BUSINESS
ContinueD
raw materials  Although we do not purchase the raw materials 
used in our products such as cotton or wool, we are concerned 
about their environmental and social impacts. We actively 
collaborate with other organisations such as the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI), Organic Exchange and UNICEF to help 
address these issues. We are working towards a long-term goal 
to increase the use of organic cotton and we provide support for transitional cotton. We also took our first steps in using other 
more sustainable materials such as organic as well as recycled 
wool or recycled polyester. All these steps reduce the environmental impact of raw material production. Also, the use 
of certified organic cotton allows us to track and trace cotton 
back to the field where it was grown. Read more about our use of organic cotton on page 31.
material ProCessing  In most cases we do not have direct 
business relationships with fabric and material manufacturers 
but we do support some fabric manufacturers in making their business become more sustainable through our Cleaner 
Production Programme. In some cases H&M has contacts to 
fabric or yarn suppliers through our production offices. In 2008 we conducted an assessment with around 20 dyeing mills in 
China. We plan to start a pilot project here focusing on 
chemical handling and wastewater treatment, since we identified these to be the most urgent issues. Read more about 
Cleaner Fabric Production on page 30. H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        3ProDuCt manufaCture  In 2008 there were around 800 suppliers 
on our list who received or could potentially have received 
orders from H&M. In total this stands for around 2,700 
production units. As a buyer, we are in a position to influence working conditions and environmental management at our 
suppliers’ operations. Read more about how we work with  
Our Suppliers from page 14.
transPort  Transport of H&M’s goods is a significant 
contributor to the carbon footprint of our operations. We are 
committed to reduce this impact and work actively with our 
transport suppliers, organisations and also other brands to reduce the impact on the environment, which at the same  
time can help us to reduce our costs. Read more about 
Transporting Goods on page 32.
sales  H&M runs around 1,700 stores in 33 countries and 
employs around 73,000 people. We work actively on reducing 
our environmental impact, such as our carbon footprint caused 
by the energy used in our stores, offices and distribution centres. We also recognise that being a good and attractive 
employer for all our colleagues and potential new employees is 
important for our future growth. Other issues to consider include marketing and security measures. Read more about  
our work in this area from page 33.
use  Our responsibility to our customers includes ensuring  
that products are safe and of a good quality. We restrict substances which are considered to be harmful and carried out 
around 360,000 quality tests in 2008, starting at the earliest 
possible stage in the production chain. We support our customers in reducing the impact of our products on the 
environment, for example when washing garments. Read more 
about Our Products from page 37.
INTERVIEW WITH OUR CEO  
AND CSR MANAGER
2008 has been another successful and exciting year for H&M 
with new markets, new stores and many other highlights. 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) took another step within 
the organisation, as a new sustainability strategy was developed during 2008. 
Here, H&M’s CEO, Rolf Eriksen, and CSR Manager, Ingrid 
Schullström, talk about some of H&M’s priorities, challenges, 
opportunities and highlights of 2008. Please continue to read through the rest of the report to learn more about our 
achievements this year.How has H&M’s approach to  
Corporate Social Responsibility  
changed over the past year? 
rolf: We started our CSR efforts more than ten years ago and 
we are very proud of what we have accomplished so far. In 
2008, we decided to look back at our achievements and 
consider how we can develop our CSR work in the coming 
decade. We wanted to take a more holistic approach, and make 
sure that sustainability becomes a natural part of the DNA in the entire organisation. The result is an ambitious strategy, 
which we hope will place us at the forefront of sustainability 
within our sector.
ingriD: Yes, it has been very inspiring for me and my team that 
we put so much focus on CSR during the year when discussing 
our future business strategies. The new strategy we have 
developed within the management team is more a sustainability strategy than just a CSR strategy. The biggest change is that we 
now make sustainability a shared responsibility in the entire 
organisation, not just driven by the CSR department. The CSR department will instead become a support function, helping all 
departments to think about sustainability. Sustainability issues 
influencing more than one function will be discussed in a new decision-making forum called the Green Room. 
From what and how has  
CSR at H&M evolved?
ingriD: We have focused a lot on our supply chain, and our Code 
of Conduct for suppliers has really been at the heart of our CSR 
efforts for many years. Of course environment is also 
important, and especially the climate change debate has put a lot of focus on the environment lately.
rolf: Improving the working conditions in the supply chain is 
still and will always be very important of course, and making 
sure our ban on child labour is respected will always remain a focus for our audit teams in the production markets.
ingriD: Of course, and now we have also started to look further 
back in the production chain, for example in areas such as 
fabric dyeing and cotton farming, to see how we can contribute to improvements there, although we do not have direct influence through our supply chain.OUR BUSINESS
ContinueD
 H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        4At the moment, how integrated are 
H&M’s corporate responsibility activities 
across the business? 
ingriD: Many functions, for example production and logistics, 
have already incorporated a lot of sustainability thinking in 
their strategies, but there are other departments where the 
potential for improvement is still great. That is why I am so 
excited about our new sustainability strategy that will be rolled 
out during 2009. Each department will have to identify its potential for improvements and we at the CSR department will 
support them to set goals, develop KPIs etcetera. 
rolf: It is also important that our people feel involved and that 
they feel that H&M’s values are really lived throughout the Company. CSR and sustainability can’t just be the 
responsibility of a central function at Head Office. It has to be 
part of the daily work for everyone. 
The shift to CSR support – what is  
the positive impact this will have on  
the business? 
rolf: I hope it will help us to make decisions that are well 
thought through from all sides, economically, socially and 
environmentally. We make plans and investments for many 
years ahead so it is important that we think about what the world will look like in five or ten years from now. What 
constraints could there be then, what new regulations, how  
far ahead of our competitors can we be by acting sustainably and what will our customers expect from H&M? The more 
forward-thinking we are, the better decisions we make. I think 
the shift to a delegated responsibility for sustainability will  help us in that.
ingriD: And for me being responsible for CSR within H&M’s 
management, and my team, it will of course help us to shift to a 
higher gear in our day-to-day work, with all departments being more actively involved.Where do you see H&M having the  
most positive impact? 
ingriD: It is always easier to make positive changes where we 
have direct control or at least a direct business relationship. 
The further down the production chain we get, the more 
difficult it is to have a real influence and improve the situation and we need to think about alternative ways to manage that. 
rolf: This is the reason why we have always been looking for 
cooperation with other organisations or other companies. In certain areas we believe that we can accomplish more through 
partnerships, for example with UNICEF. 
Where does H&M see its priorities? 
rolf: We listen a lot to our stakeholders, for example our 
employees, our customers and our shareholders. It is important 
that we focus on areas that they are concerned about. But it is 
of course also important that we focus on those areas where we have the greatest impact and also the possibility to make a 
difference. One area that we have been focusing on during the 
year is climate change, where we have gone a good way to meet and exceed our current target. As we believe that water is a 
very important issue for the environment, I have this year 
signed the CEO Water Mandate to show our commitment.
ingriD: More concretely this would mean, for example, focusing 
on working conditions and the ban on child labour in the 
supply chain, and on climate change and water on the 
environmental side. Avoiding hazardous chemicals and  offering our customers safe products has also been a priority 
for many years.
What do you see as the benefits of  
having a sustainability mindset? 
rolf: During the last year’s discussions it has become 
increasingly clear that thinking in terms of sustainability makes 
good business sense. It goes hand in hand with the Company 
values and encourages resource efficiency, which suits a cost-conscious company well. Our vision is that the Company shall be 
economically, socially and environmentally sustainable. If we 
can accomplish that, we should be able to grow while maintaining our profitability for many years to come.OUR BUSINESS
ContinueD H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        5What are your ambitions for the future? 
rolf: We want to be at the forefront compared to our 
competitors when it comes to sustainability. We want our 
customers to know that shopping at H&M means shopping 
from a company that is more sustainable than most competitors in the market. It is a bold ambition, but we think it is important 
and necessary for our continued success.
ingriD: Another ambition is to further integrate and embed 
responsible and sustainable practices throughout the 
organisation. 
How would you like to see H&M evolve? 
rolf: We have a target to increase our number of stores by 10-
15% per year with maintained profitability. I hope we will 
succeed with that target while keeping our focus on people, 
planet and profit in a balanced way. If we manage with that, I think nothing can stop us!
SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY
Our sustainability strategy guides us in our aim to become an economically, environmentally and socially sustainable 
company. There are three key elements to the sustainability 
strategy – our sustainability vision, our sustainability policy and our long-term CSR goals.
In 2007 we revised our sustainability vision and during 2008 
we have moved one step further by developing a new 
sustainability strategy. 
Our aim is to become a business where sustainability is a 
natural and integrated part of everything we do and is a 
responsibility that is shared and managed by every department 
within H&M.
Based on the concept of shared responsibility, the strategy 
means that we will move from having a CSR department that 
coordinates our sustainability activity to a CSR support 
department that guides and advises other departments within H&M as they set and move towards their individual 
sustainability goals.
Sustainability for H&M covers three areas: People, Planet and 
Profit. These three areas cannot be treated separately. They are deeply interconnected. How does being an international 
business affect H&M’s approach to CSR? 
ingriD: That is an interesting question – usually everyone asks 
us how being a Scandinavian company affects our approach. 
Well, of course, the expectations on a large multinational 
retailer with activities on four continents and with stores in more than 30 countries are very high. With our size we have 
great impact, and our approach has to reflect that. We have a 
team of more than 80 people from 13 different nationalities 
working with CSR today. This global team has the knowledge 
and experience needed for us to meet the challenges of being a socially and environmentally responsible company. Cooperation 
is also important and we need to work with global and local 
NGOs and trade unions to address issues where we do not have enough knowledge within the Company.
What are the key challenges and 
opportunities the business faces  
in CSR terms? 
rolf: Let me focus on the opportunities! We can see that CSR 
has become really important for our employees; they are proud 
to work for a responsible company. We are expanding quickly 
and we need to attract the best talents for the future. CSR has become more and more important when young professionals 
are choosing an employer. Much of what we do for the 
environment also helps us to save resources. For example, focusing on energy savings in our stores reduces CO
2 emissions 
while reducing costs. Another opportunity is investing in new 
and more sustainable materials as this helps us secure the 
availability of the right materials for the future. Our customers have welcomed the collections we have offered in organic 
cotton. And finally, it is of course important to maintain our 
customers’ confidence in us. 
ingriD: Well, I guess Rolf left the challenges for me. It is quite 
hard to be brief as there are really quite a few challenges. At 
the moment I think reaching back in our production chain is 
one of the major challenges we face. What is the right method to measure CO
2 emissions from the supply chain? How can we 
assess our water footprint? How should we track and trace the 
origin of raw materials to be able to address issues connected 
with, for example, cotton farming? We are starting to see some of the answers – our engagement in the Better Cotton Initiative is one – but these are challenges that will keep us busy many 
years ahead.OUR BUSINESS
ContinueD H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        6Our decisions are based on careful consideration, where shorter 
or longer-term environmental benefits are weighed up in order 
to ensure that we choose solutions that are sustainable in the 
long term.
We want to be a good global citizen and act responsibly in our 
business relations. We take a clear stand against all forms of 
corruption. We engage in dialogue with all our various 
stakeholders to build trust in our operations within the environment which we rely on for our long-term success.
LONG-TERM CSR GOALS
At H&M we follow two long-term goals in our CSR work. Part of our new sustainability strategy around shared responsibilities 
will be to develop these goals further according to our approach 
of a shared responsibility and the interconnection of People, Planet and Profit. This process will continue with the 
implementation of the new strategy during 2009.
•	Respect	foR	human	Rights	is	an	integRated	paRt	of	 
h&m’s oPerations. 
Everyone employed by our suppliers and their subcontractors 
are, at a minimum, guaranteed their rights stipulated by 
relevant laws covering labour rights, health and safety in the workplace, as well as by the International Labour 
Organisations’s core conventions.
• resPeCt for the environment is an integral Part of h&m’s  
anD our suPPly Chain’s business PraCtiCes. 
Through responsible acting and innovative thinking  
we contribute to sustainable use of raw materials and  
energy, pollution prevention and a low-carbon – emitting society society.We think the further integration of sustainability into our business will support our aim to be at the forefront of our 
industry in environmental and social responsibility. Also,  
we see this as an important factor in strengthening our competitiveness and supporting us in our overall goal to 
increase the number of stores by 10-15% each year while 
maintaining a high profitability.
This new strategy was developed during 2008 and we  
will start to implement it from 2009 on.
OUR SUSTAINABILITY VISION
H&M’s business operations shall be run in a way which is economically, socially and environmentally sustainable.
By ‘sustainable’ we mean that the needs of both present and 
future generations must be fulfilled.
OUR SUSTAINABILITY POLICY
H&M’s business concept is to offer fashion and quality at the 
best price. Quality also means that the products have to be 
manufactured in a way that is environmentally and socially 
sustainable. Like all H&M’s activity, our CSR work is based  on a drive for continuous improvement. 
We have a responsibility towards everyone who contributes to 
our success, including those who are not employees of H&M. 
That is why we work closely with our suppliers to develop a long-term, sustainable, social and environmental standard in 
the factories that manufacture H&M’s products.
We have to ensure that our employees’ human rights are not 
violated, and the same applies to employees of our suppliers and other cooperation partners, and to our customers. 
We apply the precautionary principle in our environmental 
work and have adopted a preventative approach with the 
substitution of hazardous chemicals.
We strive to use resources as efficiently as possible and to 
minimise waste. By adopting new technologies and methods,  
we can work preventatively to minimise our environmental 
footprint through improved production processes and our choice of materials. We must continuously review the 
Company’s goals and strategies to reduce our climate impact.OUR BUSINESS
ContinueD
 H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        7STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
An important part of our CSR strategy is engaging with 
stakeholders. We do this on a regular basis and aim to discuss 
issues with our stakeholders openly. We meet with industry 
groups and NGOs, hold investor and analyst meetings and have conducted stakeholder feedback on our CSR communications. 
We have also had some of our most important stakeholders 
comment on our CSR efforts for this sustainability report. Read 
their comments from page 11.
Our approach is to take a pragmatic and realistic view. We do 
not believe in making empty claims about change when often the issues we face do not have quick fixes. Instead we take a 
considered approach and focus on issues where we can make 
the most difference, or work in partnership with others on issues that are outside our direct influence. You can read about 
some of our key stakeholder relationships with different 
organisations, initiatives and NGOs in the relevant sections of this report. Also, you can find more information on how actively 
H&M is engaged with some of our stakeholders through 
corporate memberships or Other Initiatives on page 41. 
“H&M of today aims for transparency and is involved in 
stakeholder dialogues, joint initiatives and reports in-depth  
on their CSR work. The Company also reports on negative 
aspects and challenges and gives room for its critics to express their views.” 
Anna Nilsson, Swedbank Robur, Sweden.
MATERIALITY
To consider our material issues we continually assess the topics 
under discussion with our stakeholders. We took part in the 
formulation of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) sector 
supplement for the apparel and footwear sector which gave us insight into stakeholder expectations. Previous stakeholder 
surveys on our CSR communications have provided information 
on how our stakeholders perceive us. The main feedback we have received regarding our CSR reporting has been that we 
have not demonstrated the extent to which our suppliers and 
their subcontractors comply with our Code of Conduct, and what progress is being made. With a new IT tool in place since early 2007, we are now able to provide some data on the 
progress in connection with those production units which have 
now entered their second audit cycle. Read more about this in Our supply chain from page 14 and Our performance in the 
performance section of the online Sustainability Report.CSR MANAGEMENT
H&M’s global CSR team comprised 86 people by the end of 
2008. All-in-all, ten people work in the CSR department at our 
Head Office in Stockholm. They are:
• Three environmental coordinators
• Four Code of Conduct coordinators
• One community investment coordinator
• One IT administrator 
• One Head of CSR, Ingrid Schullström, who reports directly  to our CEO
The other 76 team members are based in our production offices around the world and report into the CSR department as well 
as their local offices. They are:
• 60 auditors, of which seven are focused on environmental  as well as health and safety issues
• Three regional coordinators
• Six Code of Conduct managers
• Three administrators
• One Code of Conduct controller (Hong Kong)
• One global coordinator for environmental and health and safety audits (Hong Kong)
• One fabric and fibre coordinator (Shanghai)
• One project manager (Dhaka)OUR BUSINESS
ContinueD
CSR MANAGER (1)
CSR DEPA RTMENT (9)Environmental coor dinators
Code of Co nduct coor dinators
IT coor dinator
Commun ity investment  coordinator
PROD UCTION OFFICE SRegional Code of Co nduct coor dinators 
Code of Co nduct manag ers and auditorsEMEA (16)
FAR EAST  (42)
SOUTH ASIA (18) Global EHS coor dinator
Fabric and ﬁbre coor dinator
Administrators and project manag ers H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        8Product and supply chain-related 
memberships 
H&M is committed to address the issues that we face in our 
supply chain. We aim to take a considered and thorough 
approach to complicated issues. There are challenges we face in 
our supply chain that are complex and difficult to tackle as an individual company. 
As a result, we aim to cooperate with other companies, 
organisations and stakeholders, sharing the responsibility of rising to these challenges and achieving genuine results. We are 
active members of the following organisations and initiatives:
Fair Labor Association  
We are accredited members of the Fair Labor Association 
(FLA), a non-profit organisation dedicated to improving 
working conditions in factories worldwide. The FLA conducts 
independent audits of suppliers that we use in China and publishes results on their website. 
We became accredited members of the FLA in 2008 following a 
two-year assessment process by the FLA. In 2009 we will extend 
our association with the FLA to independently audit some of the suppliers we use in Turkey. Other members of the FLA 
include Adidas, Nike, Liz Claiborne, Eddie Bauer, Puma, 
Columbia Sports Wear, Patagonia and Nordstrom.
For more information on our work with the FLA see the 
Independent Monitoring section of this report.  
www.fairlabor.org
Multi-Fiber Arrangement (MFA)  
Forum Bangladesh 
H&M participates in the MFA Forum Bangladesh. The textile 
industry in Bangladesh faces a number of challenges that we 
believe should be dealt with at national and industry level 
rather than at company level. There are currently 67 members of the MFA, including brands, representatives of the 
Bangladeshi government, the local industry organisations 
BGMEA and BKMEA, the World Bank, Oxfam, the global trade union organisation ITGLWF and a number of other 
organisations. MEMBERSHIPS, INDICES  
AND AWARDS
We work directly with our suppliers to help them improve 
working conditions and environmental management in their 
production units. We also aim to improve workers’ 
understanding of their rights. 
In addition to this we feel that working in partnership with 
other organisations, such as NGOs, trade unions or other 
companies, can help to tackle issues of collective concern more 
effectively than we can individually. Working in partnership or being members of sector or issue-based initiatives can also help 
H&M learn and improve as an organisation.
This section summarises some of our memberships and 
partnership organisations. It also covers recognition through sustainability indices or rankings and awards we have received 
for our CSR work.
MEMBERSHIPS
UN Global Compact 
We are signatories to the United Nations Global Compact and 
support the UN Millennium Development Goals.
The Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for 
businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and 
strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. By 
doing so, business, as a primary agent driving globalisation, 
can help ensure that markets, commerce, technology and finance advance in ways that benefit economies and societies 
everywhere.
In June 2008 we also signed up to the CEO Water Mandate, a 
voluntary initiative from the Global Compact addressing the urgent issue of water scarcity. For more information please see 
Our Environment section of this report on page 27.OUR BUSINESS
ContinueD H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        9Environmental memberships
We are active members of the following environmental 
organisations and initiatives:
better Cotton initiative
H&M plays a very active role in the Better Cotton Initiative 
(BCI) and is currently the vice-chair of the BCI steering committee. Established with the help of the WWF and others, 
the Better Cotton Initiative aims to promote measurable 
improvements in the key environmental and social impacts of 
cotton cultivation worldwide to make it more sustainable 
(economically, environmentally and socially). BCI members include, IKEA, GAP Inc., Adidas, Organic Exchange, Oxfam, 
Pan UK, WWF, IFC and cotton producers. For more 
information on the BCI see the cotton section of this report on page 31.  
www.bettercotton.or g
organiC exChange
Organic Exchange is a non-profit organisation that is committed to expanding organic agriculture, with a specific 
focus on increasing the production and use of organically 
grown fibres such as cotton. We work with Organic Exchange in relation to the use of organic cotton in our garments and to 
promote organic cotton farming. For more information on 
organic cotton see the cotton section of this report on page 31.  www.organicexchange.or gCurrently H&M is co-chair of the Bangladesh working group of the MFA and in 2008 attended numerous national-level meetings in Bangladesh as well as on an international level. 
The forum discusses various issues, including wages and 
responsible purchasing practices.  www.mfa-forum.net
Better Factories Cambodia 
H&M has been supporting the Better Factories Cambodia (BFC) programme since 2005. This initiative aims to improve 
working conditions in Cambodia’s export garment factories. 
The BFC programme is managed by the International Labour Organisation (ILO) and supported by the Cambodian 
government, the Garment Manufacturers Association of 
Cambodia (GMAC), a number of trade unions and international brands. Its work includes independent monitoring according to 
the international ILO standards and national law and is 
complemented by an extensive capacity building programme. 
H&M’s suppliers in Cambodia are covered by the BFC 
monitoring programme, which is run by ILO auditors on behalf 
of the BFC. Around 600 workers, managers and union 
representatives from our Cambodian suppliers joined BFC training sessions during 2008.
Through our work with the BFC we have seen a positive 
influence on our suppliers’ level of compliance with our Code of 
Conduct. For example, although overtime exceeding legal limits remains an issue, our audits identified good progress 
during 2008. From 2009 we have decided to rely on the ILO 
audits to show compliance with our Code of Conduct, although we will continue to carry out our own audits for environmental 
requirements as these are not covered by the ILO audits. Also, 
follow-up audits will still be conducted by our own auditors in order to assess progress. 
www.betterfactories.or g 
www.ilo.or g 
Read more about other initiatives in Our Supply Chain section from page 14.OUR BUSINESS
ContinueD H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        10ETHICAL INDICES AND RANKINGS
Ethibel Sustainability Index
H&M is in the Ethibel Excellence and Pioneer rankings.The Ethibel Excellence Index® consists of some 280  
company stocks from Europe, North America and Asia-Pacific 
(DJ Stoxx 1800 Universe). It consists of companies showing, on 
the basis of Vigeo ratings, above-average performance in terms 
of social and environmental sustainability and meeting the 
ethical criteria established by the independent organisation Forum Ethibel.
The Ethibel Pioneer Index® consists of some 200 company 
stocks from Europe, North America and Asia-Pacific (DJ Stoxx 
1800 Universe). It consists of companies showing, on the  basis of Vigeo ratings, the most outstanding scores in terms  
of social and environmental sustainability and meeting the 
ethical criteria established by the independent organisation Forum Ethibel. 
www.ethibel.com
FTSE4Good Index
H&M continued to be a member company of the FTSE4Good 
Index series in 2008.
FTSE4Good is an index series for Socially Responsible 
Investment (SRI) set up by FTSE, a leading global index 
provider. FTSE4Good aims to set an objective global standard for socially responsible investment and is one of the 
benchmarks to consider when comparing ethical funds against 
an index of its peers. www.ftse.com
ECPI
H&M is a constituent of two of E.Capital Partners’ ethical indices, the ECPI Ethical Index Euro, and the ECPI Ethical 
Index Global. The ECPI European index selects the 150 top 
capitalised companies in the European market that are eligible investments according to the ECPI Socially Responsible 
Investment (SRI) Screening Methodology. The Global index 
selects the 300 top capitalised companies in the global market.  
www.e-cpartners.comeuroPean retail rounD t able
H&M is a member of the European Retail Round Table (ERRT) and has signed up to the Retail Declaration on Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy provided by the ERRT. The 
Declaration commits H&M to reduce energy use in store by 
20% per square metre and to source 20% of energy from renewable sources by 2020. We are also active in developing 
ERRT’s initiatives to reduce the environmental impact of road 
transport. For more information on our environmental initiatives, including transport and energy, see the environment 
section of this report from page 27.  
www.errt.or g
Clean shiPPing ProjeCt anD Clean CargoDuring 2008 we have been involved in two initiatives to reduce 
the impact of shipping our products. The Clean Shipping 
Project is an initiative between the Swedish government and different companies (www.cleanshippingproject.se) and Clean 
Cargo is a workgroup of Business for Social Responsibility 
(www.bsr.or g). To concentrate our efforts in this area we 
decided from 2009 to focus our activities within the Clean 
Shipping Project. More information can be found in the 
Transporting Goods section of this report on page 32.
Product quality-related memberships
afirmH&M is a member of the steering committee of AFIRM, which is 
a multi-company forum that aims to advance the global 
management of restricted substances in the apparel and footwear supply chain. In 2008 we attended several meetings and jointly 
organised a seminar in Delhi, India, to educate suppliers of 
AFIRM members on chemicals management. For more on our approach to chemicals management see the restricting hazardous 
chemicals section of this report on page 40.  
www.afirm-group.com
sis
Swedish Standard Institute (SIS) is the centre for work on 
standards in Sweden and a working partner in the European 
and global networks CEN and ISO. We are active within several SIS working groups on national level as well as on the level of 
SIS European counterpart CEN (www.cen.eu). Through this we 
are looking at issues such as flammability, wash resistance of garments, chemistry, child safety and common sizing in Europe. 
Through working with SIS and sharing experience and 
knowledge we aim to improve common quality standards across our global production.  
www.sis.seOUR BUSINESS
ContinueD H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        11what is your overall imPression of the Csr work of h&m?
Our overall impression is that H&M has a relatively/
comparatively strong approach towards supply chain issues, in 
particular, when violations are reported by local actors. Progress on the factory level remains limited. H&M could play 
a bigger role in developing a sectoral approach to preventing 
labour rights violations.
what is gooD about the Csr work of h&m from your PersPeCtive?
We appreciate the transparency about FAP findings, but this could be strengthened by disclosing supplier factory names and 
by disclosing comparisons over time. H&M quickly responds to 
urgent appeals, but H&M could do more to prevent violations which are systemic. For example in ensuring all workers have 
contracts and management provides access to union 
representatives. CCC has developed a number of such proposals at country and global level. For more information see ‘Sector-
Wide solutions for the Sports Shoe and Apparel Industry in 
Indonesia‘ or chapter seven in the ‘Clearing the Hurdles’ report. 
what CoulD be imProveD?
We believe H&M should endorse a living wage standard. H&M should clarify its relationships with MSIs, it appears its FLA 
membership is restricted to China and works with other MSIs 
only on a project basis. H&M should push the FLA on the living wage issue and develop relations with global trade unions and 
strengthen the participation of labour rights NGOs and trade 
unions within the organisation. In the absence of this membership of the FLA remains limited. 
what are key strategies h&m shoulD take to imProve this?
One strategy that could be helpful is to sign an international 
framework agreement with ITGLWF.
MSIs = multistakeholder initiatives 
Fair Labor Association (FLA), President 
and CEO, Auret van Heerden 
http://www.fairlabor.org 
what is your overall imPression of the Csr work of h&m?
The H&M programme is very thorough, very frank and very 
serious. 
how Do you see the Progress of h&m’s Csr work sinCe its formal 
start in 1997?
H&M is constantly learning and improving.
what is gooD about the Csr work of h&m from your PersPeCtive?
The tools are advanced and regularly reviewed. H&M’s staff members are well trained and well versed in local language and 
culture. H&M maintains good relations with stakeholders.AWARDS
Global 100 most sustainable corporations
For the fourth time in five years H&M has been listed as one of 
the Global 100 most sustainable corporations by Corporate 
Knights and Innovest Strategic Value Advisors. The list has 
been published since 2005 and H&M has appeared on it every year except 2007.  
www.global100.or g
Brands with a conscience
In 2008 the Medinge Group, an international think-tank on 
branding and business, released its fifth annual ‘Brands with a 
Conscience’ list. The 2008 list, which included H&M, identified 
eight business brands that are considered to contribute to the development of society by behaving in a sustainable, socially 
responsible and humanistic way, while remaining successful 
and profitable. In the analysis, the Medinge Group stated “H&M has grown into one of the most demanding fashion 
producers in the world, and today stands as a benchmark of 
standards for the industry”. www.medinge.org
STAKEHOLDER FEEDBACK
Feedback on our CSR activities and objectives is very valuable to us. Dialogue with our stakeholders is an important part of 
H&M’s ambitions to improve our CSR work even further. Below 
you will find comments from four of our key stakeholder representatives. These are:
Clean Clothes Campaign, Ineke Zeldenrust  
http://www.cleanclothes.org
Fair Labor Association (FLA), President and CEO, Auret van 
Heerden http://www.fairlabor.org 
Swedbank Robur, Anna Nilsson 
http://www.swedbankrobur.se 
UNI (Union Network International), Jan Furstenborg  
http://www.uniglobalunion.org 
Questions & Answers:
Clean Clothes Campaign, Ineke 
Zeldenrust
http://www.cleanclothes.or gOUR BUSINESS
ContinueD H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        12The CSR Manager reports directly to the CEO. We consider it 
very positive that the CSR Manager has taken the global 
responsibility for management of the employee relations during 
2006 and also that H&M’s agreement with Union Network International and the European Works Council. Before issues 
regarding the internal labour rights were only handled locally. 
The company has also developed a Code of Ethics.
H&M of today aims for transparency and is involved in 
stakeholder dialogues, joint initiatives and reports in-depth on 
their CSR-work. The company also report on negative aspects 
and challenges and give room for its critics to express their view. Today the company is known to act instantly when an 
outside party reports on bad conditions in their supply chain.
what CoulD be imProveD?
We would like to see enhanced reporting on the results of the 
supplier audits and the status of the sustainability level in the supply chain as the production is conducted in countries with 
high risk for bad labour and environmental conditions. We 
would also like to see more in-depth reporting on how H&M work with suppliers where the employees are not members of a 
trade union or have no right to collective bargaining. H&M has 
allocated large amount of resources for the auditing and awareness processes but its hard do evaluate the results on 
supplier level. 
Also, the purchasing process of the company needs to be adjusted 
to make it easier for the suppliers to fulfil the demands of the Code of Conduct (e.g. reasonable demands on delivery times). It 
is also important to encourage the suppliers to improve on their 
CSR-standard, for example through more business. 
Today H&M is mainly focusing on their 800 direct suppliers 
and only partly on the suppliers sub-suppliers which is a weak 
point in the company’s responsibility work. The question of lack 
of control of the raw material production (e.g. cotton) is a sensitive area that H&M will always be seen as responsible for 
however difficult the control is.
UNI (Union Network International), Jan 
Furstenborg 
www.uniglobalunion.org 
what is your overall imPression of the Csr work of h&m?
In H&M, social responsibility is clearly an integral part of the company's management culture, surely reflecting also its 
Swedish and Scandinavian origin. Not many retailers invest so 
much effort into making sure that their principles are applied both in the supply chain and in human resource management what CoulD be imProveD?From my point of view, evaluation and impact measurement 
could be improved. Also a greater use of key performance 
indicators to track progress and there should be an increased capacity building at factory level. H&M should also strengthen 
the engagement of worker representatives in identifying and 
resolving workplace issues.  
what are key strategies h&m shoulD take to imProve this?
I think, an expanded participation in FLA 3.0 could help very 
much to improve in these regards. 
Swedbank Robur, Anna Nilsson 
www.swedbankrobur.se 
what is your overall imPression of the Csr work of h&m?
In Swedbank Robur’s sustainability analysis, H&M’s CSR work 
is top ranked within its sector and the company is approved of 
for all our SRI-funds. The challenges in the areas of human rights, labour rights and environment are very high within the 
sector as the production is conducted in low cost countries in 
the supply chain and therefore we do see room for improvement in spite of our high ranking of the company’s CSR work.  
how Do you see the Progress of h&m’s Csr work sinCe its formal 
start in 1997?
Swedbank Robur’s first sustainability analysis of H&M was 
conducted in 1997. That year H&M launched its first Code of 
Conduct for suppliers, but did not do any sustainability audits. H&M did not have an environmental policy and did not report 
on sustainability issues. In fact H&M was “famous” for its non-
transparency on sustainability issues! In summary we see that H&M has built its CSR work from scratch during the last 
eleven years.
what is gooD about the Csr work of h&m from your PersPeCtive?
H&M makes a clear statement that they are responsible 
towards everyone who contributes to the company’s success 
including the employees of their suppliers. H&M has conducted over 15,000 supplier audits during the last decade and has now 
deepened its approach with the new Full Audit Programme 
system with more focus on cooperation with the suppliers to solve the problems as well as the ordinary CoC-audits. The 
company has a large team of full time CoC-auditors and the 
quality controllers and purchasers also take part in the CoC-audits. H&M has been accepted as a participating company of 
the Fair Labor Association, which conducts independent 
external audits of H&M’s supply chain. H&M also conducts environmental projects in the supply chain. OUR BUSINESS
ContinueD H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        13HOW WE REPORT
We report activities and progress on our CSR programmes 
annually. This report covers H&M’s global operations from 
January to December 2008. This year, it also applies to the 
supply chain monitoring data. 
Fiscal information and details about our employees are 
reported according to our annual reporting cycle of 1 December 
2007 to 30 November 2008. Our last CSR report was published 
in May 2008.
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI)
We use the GRI guidelines and the pilot Apparel and Footwear Sector Supplement to inform our sustainability reporting.  
A GRI reference table can be found in the Performance section 
of this report online. We have included the indicators from the pilot of the Apparel and Footwear Sector Supplement but have 
not included them in our self-assessment rating as they are not  
yet finalised.
ASSURANCE
We do not currently assure our report. While we recognise  
that some stakeholders appreciate assurance, we believe our 
resources are presently still best placed in furthering our 
corporate social responsibility work. We are committed to  open and honest disclosure and this report is part of that 
process. We do not rule out the possibility of modifying our 
approach to assurance in the future. However, we believe that, for now, the comments of some of our most important 
stakeholders, as published in this report, add a high value and 
credibility to our reporting. Since 2006 we have also worked with the Fair Labor Association (FLA) to independently monitor 
our Chinese suppliers and in 2008 we became an FLA 
accredited company. Independent monitoring will be extended to Turkey in 2009. Read more at www.fairlabor.or g. 
For further information please contact: H & M HENNES & MAURITZ AB.  
Communication & Press Department 
Hendrik Alpen 
hendrik.alpen@hm.com
Katarina Kempe 
katarina.kempe@hm.comOUR BUSINESS
ContinueD
practices as H&M apparently is doing. The company is clearly a leader in the CSR area.
how Do you see the Progress of h&m’s Csr work sinCe its formal 
start in 1997?
I have not followed the supply chain related CSR work of H&M from its start, but I have worked with the company on labour 
relations issues. My impression is that H&M takes its 
responsibility for its personnel very seriously, and approaches any problems through social dialogue in an open and professional 
way. The company clearly respects its workers' rights and has no 
problems in recognising their right to organise into trade unions and to negotiate collective agreements. 
what is gooD about the Csr work of h&m from your PersPeCtive?
Corporate social responsibility must be part of a company's 
culture and management system. This requires a strong 
commitment of the top management, which quite obviously is the case in H&M. It would feel to me that H&M is well on its 
way into the next generation of CSR, when human and social 
values are completely integrated into mainstream activities.
what CoulD be imProveD?
When globalisation leads to consumer products being increasingly made in countries with insufficient structures and 
traditions to take care of people's rights at work and their 
living conditions, serious moral and ethical problems emerge. Without commenting on H&M particularly, as the issues are 
general, large retailers should pay even more attention to 
ensure that their purchasing practices promote social and economic justice and development and the creation of trade 
unions and employers association who can take responsibility 
for regulating employment and working conditions in tripartite cooperation through local governments.
what are key strategies h&m shoulD take to imProve this?
Today, voluntary CSR initiatives are still needed to ensure 
respect for workers' economic and social rights in the supply chains. 
As a leader in the field, I would hope that H&M would 
participate more actively also in those business driven schemes 
where other participants are very much dependent on the good practice experiences of others to develop their own approach. 
The retail industry is now fast moving towards recognising the 
need for CSR in their supply chains and companies like H&M 
could play a major role in promoting this. 
To set a level playing field where all major retailers are 
prepared to accept the costs of social responsibility is essential 
to improve the conditions of the disadvantaged worker. H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        14
OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
We believe we have a responsibility towards everyone who contributes to our success.  
This includes our suppliers and their employees. H&M does not own any of the 
factories that manufacture our products. In 2008 there were around 800 suppliers that received orders or could potentially have received orders from H&M and therefore were part of our Full Audit Programme. Manufacturing took place in a total of around 2,700 production units, mainly 
in Asia and Europe, producing garments, accessories, shoes, cosmetics and now also home 
textiles for H&M. As a large international company and buyer we strive to promote workers’ rights in our suppliers’ factories and to positively influence our suppliers to improve working 
conditions in their operations.
CODE OF CONDUCT
The H&M Code of Conduct is our main tool for helping our suppliers to improve working 
conditions and environmental practices. Suppliers must work towards meeting all the 
requirements set out in our Code of Conduct and we conduct regular audits to assess levels of 
compliance with the Code. 
This section provides details on our approach to purchasing and our suppliers, and introduces 
our Code of Conduct and supplier auditing programme. Detailed data and results of our audit 
process can be found in the Performance section online. Read more about our Code of Conduct 
on the following pages.
OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
Our supply chain involves a number of processes and people.
The descriptions below explain some of the key roles in managing our supply chain.buyer  Our buying office is based in Stockholm, Sweden, where our buyers, together with our 
designers and pattern makers, create, plan and purchase our collections.
merChanDiser  Based in our production offices in Asia and Europe, merchandisers are the link 
between H&M’s buying office and our suppliers. They identify suppliers to meet demand from the 
buying team.
auDitor  Also based in our production offices, our team of 60 auditors monitor suppliers’ 
compliance with our Code of Conduct. Auditors conduct the H&M Full Audit Programme (FAP), 
which includes full audits for potential new and existing production units and follow-up audits 
(FUP) that assess improvement progress and the implementation of H&M requirements. Together with our regional CSR coordinators and Code of Conduct managers, they also maintain and 
establish our local networks with various organisations such as NGOs or trade unions.
 H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        15OUR APPROACH TO  
PURCHASING, SUPPLIERS AND  
THE PRODUCTION CHAIN
H&M has its own buying organisation which is responsible for 
designing, planning and purchasing our collections.
Design decisions are made in our buying office in Stockholm. 
Our 18 production offices around the world are responsible for 
identifying the right suppliers and allocating production. Working alongside them is our global auditor team comprised 
of 60 people. They are responsible for monitoring how well 
potentially new and existing suppliers are complying with our Code of Conduct, which forms the basis for our auditing 
programme. The results from this auditing process are one of 
the factors that influence which suppliers we work with, as well as, for example, price and quality. They determine which 
suppliers cannot be used due to Code of Conduct related 
reasons. Read more on the results of our audits in Audit Findings and Progress page 22.
During 2008 we created and distributed a new Code of  
Conduct guidance manual aiming to increase understanding of 
the Code among our suppliers. Read more in the Code of Conduct section on page 16.
A PARTNERSHIP APPROACH
Our approach to our suppliers is to create long-lasting and meaningful relationships. We strive to work towards 
partnerships with our main suppliers because it provides 
benefits for both sides. Partnership working allows our suppliers to plan ahead and invest in improvements in their 
operations. H&M benefits by having secure supply structures 
and good-quality suppliers who can be trusted and relied on. 
For over ten years we have been working to raise the standard 
of working conditions in the factories where our products are 
made. One challenge we still face is how to make changes that 
will have a lasting impact on these factories. Establishing long-term partnerships with suppliers enables us to work with them 
to raise awareness of the benefits of improving conditions in 
their factories and this can lead to long-term and sustainable improvements in working conditions and environmental 
management in our supply chain.faCtory emPloyee  As a company we have the opportunity and 
responsibility to improve the working conditions in our 
suppliers’ factories. We promote the rights of the employees 
and our aim is for them to be aware of and able to claim their rights at work. We also think that everyone contributing to the 
success of H&M should earn a decent wage. As a buyer and 
through our Code of Conduct we strive to ensure the payment of legal minimum wages. We recognise that minimum wages do 
not always cover the basic needs and we agree with the ILO 
Global Wage Report 2008/09, which states that “the levels of minimum wages should be increased”. We believe that 
collective bargaining processes are the most sustainable way to 
define wages. Raising awareness about workers’ rights and the right of the freedom of association are important contributions 
in this regard.
suPPlier  H&M does not own or operate any factories producing 
its goods, but instead works with approximately 800 suppliers and around 2,700 production units mainly in Asia and Europe. 
The number of suppliers reflects those which received orders 
from H&M in 2008 as well as those which could potentially have received orders and therefore have been part of our 
regular Full Audit Programme. We actively work with them to 
improve working conditions in their own and subcontracted factories. We strive for long-term partnerships with our 
suppliers and support them in taking responsibility for the 
conditions in their factories and for implementing improvements. In some cases, we also try to contribute to 
improvements at earlier stages of our production chain  
(second-tier suppliers), although our influence is much more limited here. 
Definitions:
suPPlier:  An independent company with which H&M has a direct business contract.
ProDuCtion unit:  All units (factories) where production for H&M takes place. This includes our 
suppliers’ own factories as well as factories which are subcontracted by our suppliers.
seConD-tier suPPliers:  The suppliers to our suppliers, such as fabric or yarn manufacturers. In 
almost all cases H&M has no direct business relationship with these suppliers.
OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
ContinueD H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        16manual is currently available in English, Chinese, Turkish  
and Romanian.
Our suppliers purchase materials such as fabric, buttons and 
zips from other suppliers known as second-tier suppliers. In 
general we do not have direct business relationships with second-tier suppliers and are therefore not able to set Code of 
Conduct requirements. We aim to support some second-tier 
suppliers on a voluntary basis to contribute to improvements when possible. One example is our Cleaner Production 
Programme, which helps a number of fabric manufacturers to 
reduce their environmental impact from page 30. In some cases H&M has direct contacts with fabric or yarn suppliers through 
our production offices. In 2008 we conducted an assessment 
with around 20 dyeing mills in China. We plan to start a pilot project in China focusing on chemical handling and wastewater 
treatment, since these are the most urgent issues.
SUPPLIER GRADING
To become an H&M supplier, it is not necessary to meet all the 
demands in our Code of Conduct in advance. But all production 
units do have to meet the standards according to the 
‘temporary’ grade detailed below. This includes a ban on child labour, compliance with the ILO’s core conventions, minimum 
wage for all employees and fundamental safety at the factory.
All potential new suppliers or production units have to be 
approved by H&M’s CSR department through our Full Audit Programme. If one is judged not to have the necessary 
preconditions, they will not be considered. 
Existing H&M suppliers are also graded according to the 
categories below and these grades are communicated to our merchandising teams who source suppliers to make our 
products. Grading levels are also communicated to our 
suppliers in order to cooperate in a fair partnership and to make clear what our expectations are.
This also supports us in our aim to further integrate our 
suppliers’ level of compliance to our Code of Conduct into our 
buying process. See the Integrating CSR in Purchasing section for more information.
We use the following five point grading system to monitor 
progress towards full compliance with our Code of Conduct. 
Suppliers can move up the grading system depending on their actions. To support progress, they cannot grade down to 
‘temporary’ from a previous higher grading. A downgrade from In the longer term, our aim is for working conditions at our 
suppliers’ factories not to be dependent on us. Instead, we support factory managers and workers themselves to be more 
aware of employee rights and good working conditions so  
that they shall be able to take control of and improve their  own situation.
CODE OF CONDUCT
H&M’s Code of Conduct was drawn up in 1997 and is based on the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the 
International Labour Organisation’s (ILO) Declaration on 
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. 
It also stipulates that local legislation must be observed. The 
Code is available in around 25 languages. You can download 
the full Code of Coduct online at www.hm.com/csr 
The Code of Conduct applies both to our suppliers with whom 
we have a direct business relationship and to all their production units and subcontractors where production for 
H&M takes place. Subcontractors may be contracted by our 
suppliers to perform a part of the production process and in that case are also covered by our Code of Conduct and our Full 
Audit Programme. Our Code of Conduct has eight sections, 
covering:
• Legal requirements
• Child labour
• Safety
• Workers’ rights
• Factory conditions
• Housing conditions
• Environment
• Monitoring and compliance
In 2008 we started to review the Code of Conduct to expand  
the scope to include, for example, suppliers of shop fittings or 
other materials.
Compliance with the Code of Conduct is assessed by our Full 
Audit Programme (FAP), which was revised in 2008. Read more 
about Auditing and Compliance.
During 2008 we created and distributed a new Code of  
Conduct supplier guidance manual. The aim of the manual is to increase understanding of the Code among our suppliers and 
their subcontractors and ultimately improve compliance with 
the Code. In addition to containing the Code it also explains H&M’s expectations of suppliers in a clear way. The guidance OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
ContinueD H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        17Our challenge is to avoid causing this type of production 
pressure for our suppliers wherever possible. At H&M our 
approach is to create a pre-order product development plan 
before we confirm a production contract with the supplier. Such a plan involves confirming the exact detail of the product 
before placing the order with the supplier wherever possible. 
This prevents the supplier from having to contend with changes to the product specification later in the production process.
Due to our close and long-term relationships with suppliers,  
we can also use our knowledge of a supplier’s capacity, 
performance and adherence to our Code of Conduct in the product-planning process. All production units have a Code  
of Conduct grade based on the results of our Full Audit 
Programme and are made aware of their grading status. Also the merchandising teams know each production unit’s grade 
during pre-order product planning. The grading influences the 
choice of suppliers along with factors such as price, capacities and quality. It also determines which suppliers cannot be used 
due to Code of Conduct reasons. Beside that, the grade and the 
development of the supplier in terms of working conditions and environmental management also plays a role when defining the 
quantities of orders placed at certain supplier. Read more about 
supplier grading on page 16 and 23.
Once contracted, the supplier is then responsible for the  
timing of the manufacturing and can more accurately price  
the work and control their own production plan based on our 
requirements.
We believe that pre-order product development planning is part 
of our overall approach of successful communication with our 
supply chain. We aim to provide clear information to our 
suppliers about our requirements in order to achieve a common understanding. Good communication also includes listening to 
our suppliers’ needs and queries. We think that integrating 
commercial buying practices, such as capacity management and quotations, alongside our Code of Conduct work is a key part of 
successful, responsible buying practices. 
Ensuring responsible buying practices while facing the  
current global economic situation is a challenge. But we feel this approach helps us to manage the continuous key  
challenges in our industry: speed of growth, the speed of 
fashion and the information needs of all the people involved in creating our products. a higher level will lead to rejection. Suppliers that are graded 'permanently rejected' are not allowed to work for H&M ever 
again. However, contributing to progress has priority for us 
rather than just shifting production elsewhere. The five supplier grades are:
Permanently rejeCteD: a supplier/production unit repeatedly 
employs child labour or a supplier repeatedly uses undeclared 
production units. No production of H&M goods will ever be allowed.
rejeCteD: a supplier/production unit is rejected for any of the 
following: denies workers’ basic rights; the minimum wage is 
not paid; factory premises are unsafe; H&M is denied access to factory premises; management refuses to cooperate. The 
supplier/production unit is suspended but can resume business 
with H&M if the necessary improvements are carried out and verified.
temPorary: the supplier/production unit fulfils requirements 
regarding basic worker rights, minimum wage, basic safety and 
basic housing conditions. It is temporarily approved to produce H&M goods for six months. In this time the supplier/
production unit must make the improvements necessary to 
reach the 'insufficient' grade, otherwise the grading will drop to ‘rejected’.
insuffiCient: the supplier/production unit fulfils the ‘temporary’ 
grading requirements plus some additional requirements, but it 
needs to make further improvements to reach full compliance. The production of goods is approved.
satisfaCtory: the supplier/production unit fulfils all Code of 
Conduct requirements and the production of H&M goods is 
approved and promoted.
INTEGRATING CSR IN 
PURCHASING
Fashion today works in short seasons or cycles. We plan our 
collections up to one year ahead. However, sometimes short 
production times are needed. Without responsible buying 
practices this can result in both time and financial pressures  on suppliers that prevent them from safeguarding employee 
rights and the environment.OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
ContinueD
 H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        18Another change to the FAP includes an update on the tool for 
auditors to assess the extent and sophistication of the supplier’s 
management system. This tool gives the supplier a scorecard to 
highlight system weaknesses in different areas.
THE AUDIT PROCESS
In general terms, the audit process involves an inspection of the site and examination of a variety of company files and records, 
such as timesheets, pay slips and employment contracts to 
determine compliance with the questions within the Full Audit Programme questionnaire.
Management systems are analysed and interviews with 
employees and employers are conducted at the time of the 
audit. Interviews with employees are part of every FAP audit. They are usually conducted on the factory premises without 
management attending. The H&M auditors select the 
interviewees randomly and from a selection of different roles and departments within a production unit. We are aware of the 
risk of factory employees being influenced in the answers they 
give. It is therefore highly important that our auditors have very good interview skills. We are currently also looking at ways 
of improving direct communication between factory employees 
and H&M outside the normal audit process, for example in the event of an employee grievance.
Once the FAP audit is complete for all areas of our Code of 
Conduct (full audits can take up to six man days), the results 
are discussed with the management and a time frame to rectify areas of non-compliance is agreed. Following this, the supplier 
must draft a correction plan specifying timings and identifying 
those responsible for making the changes. This correction plan can include both short and long-term goals. H&M’s auditors 
will then check on the implementation of the measures outlined 
with follow-up audits. AUDITING AND COMPLIANCE
The Full Audit Programme (FAP) is the method we have in place for monitoring compliance with our Code of Conduct. 
Our major audit tool is the detailed FAP questionnaire, which 
consists of more than 90 main questions, with an additional number of verification points.
You can find most main questions and the findings related to 
them from our 2008 FAP audits as well as the progress made  
at those production units which have been in their second  audit cycle during 2008 in the Performance section of this 
report online.
A thorough FAP audit is carried out regularly at all our 
production units. The purpose of the audit is to get a good understanding of the conditions at each production unit and to 
grade it against our Code of Conduct. This in turn leads to an 
agreed correction plan with the management, which aims to remedy breaches of the Code. While auditing the production 
units, an FAP aims to identify the most urgent issues to solve. 
The management of each supplier or production unit then needs to develop and own a correction plan. The progress is 
usually monitored by three follow-up audits (FUP).
REVISED AUDIT PROGRAMME FAP 2.0
During 2008 we have revised our Full Audit Programme. We 
assessed the results of the FAP over recent years and decided 
that our focus on certain areas of the FAP should be 
strengthened.
We have increased the focus on workers’ basic rights, as defined 
by the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights 
at Work, and workers’ employment rights, such as working 
hours, wages and leave.
All health and safety factors are still covered in the audit 
process, but only those focusing on the basic protection of 
human life, such as fire safety and hazardous chemicals, are 
now questions that influence a production unit’s grade from the audit. Issues such as hygiene and first aid are no longer grading 
questions. To counter this we have developed a new ‘overall 
impression’ section within the FAP , which assesses the health, safety and cleanliness of a factory as a whole. For the first time 
we have also included a health and safety self-assessment 
process for selected suppliers to complete, which is reviewed together with our auditors during the audit. This procedure will 
be evaluated during 2009.OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
ContinueD
 H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        19ProDuCtion Countries within our regions 
(ITAlIc denoTes wHere csr eMployees Are bAsed):
far east:
Cambodia, China, Indonesia, South Korea, Thailand, Vietnam 
south asia: 
Bangladesh, India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka
emea (euroPe, miDDle east, afriCa): 
Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Egypt, France, Greece, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Mauritius, Morocco, Poland, Portugal, Romania, 
Spain, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine
role heaDQuarters far east south asia emea 
 (sweDen)
csr unit 10 1 (Global FHs 1 project  – 
  coordinator) coordinator 
  1 fabric and  
  fibre coordinator
regional coordinator – 1 1 1
coc Manager – 3 2 1
coc controller – 1 – –
Auditor – 33 14 13
Admin – 2 – 1
Total 10 42 18 16
AUDITOR TRAINING
Auditing the working conditions at our suppliers’ factories is 
central to our approach to CSR. To do the job correctly we must 
ensure that our auditors are well trained and understand what 
it takes to audit a supplier.
NEW AUDITOR TRAINING
Our standard training programme for new auditors takes 12 weeks and consists of:
• Background reading on H&M’s Code of Conduct, approach 
to auditing and guidelines for audit practice
• Standard H&M induction and training on a range of subjects 
including H&M’s Full Audit Programme (FAP)
• Practical experience visiting factories, shadowing an experienced auditor and finally conducting an audit with a senior colleague
• General introduction to H&M from factory to store and an overview of the Production Office organisation.FOLLOW-UP AUDITS
Follow-up audits are part of the improvement process and allow a discussion of improvements in more depth. The focus of the 
follow-up is on the supplier’s own solutions and progress. An 
important part of this process is to help the supplier understand the value of making improvements and how this 
benefits their business and their long-term relationship with 
H&M. This approach often results in greater trust and a better 
business relationship between suppliers and H&M. However, it 
is an ongoing challenge to reach this status of cooperation with suppliers and is part of our continuous improvement approach.
TARGETED VISITS
In some cases our auditors also conduct targeted factory visits such as visits at night and during weekends or holidays. The 
purpose of these visits is to see if production is running, to 
compare operating hours with time records and detect any unreported overtime. Another example is visits to factories on 
the day wages are paid in order to check whether the wages’ 
register corresponds with the amounts that the workers have been paid. If any employee training, evacuation drills, or other 
activities aimed at improving safety or workers’ awareness is 
scheduled, we may also visit the factory to observe.
OUR CSR TEAM
By the end of 2008 our CSR team was made up of 86 people who manage and conduct the audit programme. A few are 
located in our Head Office in Stockholm, Sweden, while most 
are located in the regions where our products are manufactured. They comprise the following:OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
ContinueD H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        20• Correct deployment and use of personal protective 
equipment, delivered by 3M, 27 May 2008
• Workshop on remediation of child labour, delivered by Impactt, 8 August 2008
• Migrant worker forum, delivered by BSR, 15 August 2008
• Environmental Health and Safety/Chemical handling, delivered by BSR, 11 September 2008
• Hepatitis B information, delivered by BSR,  
14 November 2008
• Forced labour, delivered by International Labour 
Organisation, 11 December 2008
internal training:• Training in the Full Audit Programme method and tools,  
21 April 2008
• Follow-up visit methods and reporting, and understanding 
and evaluating management systems, 24 April 2008
• H&M’s Fair Labor Association membership and internal routines, 14 August 2008
INDEPENDENT MONITORING  
AND VERIFICATION
In 2006 H&M became a participating company in the Fair 
Labor Association (FLA) and in 2008 we became an accredited 
member. This means that our Full Audit Programme, used for 
monitoring suppliers’ compliance with our Code of Conduct, and process for addressing violations of the Code are in line 
with FLA standards.
The FLA is an organisation that strives to improve labour 
conditions in factories around the world. Working with the FLA over the past three years has played an important part in our 
auditing process and its feedback has been valuable in guiding 
our approach to auditing.
During the past two years the FLA has conducted independent 
monitoring visits to production units in China and has 
inspected H&M’s system for monitoring compliance with the 
Code of Conduct. Independent auditing gives H&M the opportunity to show our stakeholders how our audit system 
works and also to develop our own system further. Results are 
published on the FLA’s website at www.fairlabor.or g.In addition to new auditors we need to ensure our existing 
auditors keep up-to-date with changes to our audit system  
and undertake continuing professional development in the  area of auditing.
In November and December 2008, all of our auditors were 
introduced to, and trained in, our new Full Audit Programme  
– FAP 2.0. The training included both theoretical and practical training on the new FAP 2.0 audit form and how to analyse 
management systems and EHS (Environment, Health and 
Safety) issues. The training covered all auditors and was held  in Shanghai, Guangzhou, Bangalore and Istanbul.
AUDITOR PROFESSIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT
We aim to provide ongoing professional development and 
refresher training for all of our auditors. Below are some 
examples of training for auditors in China, our main sourcing 
market with the largest number of auditors in place.
Training in Shanghai included:
external training:• Labour law, delivered by BSR, 15-16 March 2008
• Grievance procedures, delivered by the Fair Labor Association, 28-29 March 2008
• CSR management system, delivered by BSR, 20 June 2008
• Chemical handling, delivered by BSR, 18 July 2008
• Forced Labour, delivered by International Labour Organisation, 10 December 2008
internal training:• Full Audit Programme (FAP) training and management 
system workshop, 7-8 May 2008 
• Grievance systems, 14 August 2008
• FAP method and calibration training based on case studies, including audit methods, analysis of findings and report 
writing, and forced labour, 21 November 2008
Training in Guangzhou included:
external training:• Grievance procedures, delivered by FLA, 26 March 2008
• Workshop about the new labour law, delivered by BSR,  21 April 2008
• Labour law, delivered by a Chinese law firm, 24 April 2008 OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
ContinueD H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        21Some of the actions H&M has already taken in this regard:  
We have developed a Code of Conduct guidance manual, which 
aims to increase understanding of what H&M expects of our 
suppliers. Read more in the Code of Conduct section on page 16. We are also looking into developing direct grievance 
communication tools, aiming to enable workers to contact 
H&M directly in case of a grievance. We have employed a Code of Conduct controller, based in Hong Kong, and strengthened 
our organisation in regard to reporting and following up on 
several IEMs. For information about our 2008 auditor training in China please see the Auditor Training section on page 19.
Following our positive experience with the FLA in China,  
from 2009 on, the FLA will also conduct independent audits  
at H&M’s suppliers in Turkey.
FLA 3.0
FLA 3.0 is the FLA’s approach to create sustainable improvements in supply chain working conditions, with the aim 
of moving from policing to coaching. H&M is taking part in 
FLA 3.0, which complements our aim for suppliers to take more ownership of the conditions in their factories. Suppliers are 
more likely to address problems and achieve real progress if 
they understand the issues, their causes and what benefit improved practices can bring. 
Currently only one of H&M’s suppliers in China has chosen  
to take part in FLA 3.0 and we hope to involve more suppliers 
in 2009.
HOME WORKING
In some countries our suppliers may employ home workers  for specific parts of the production process such as hand 
embroidering, beading and jewellery making. Home  
working makes it harder to monitor whether worker rights  are being upheld. 
However, it can be beneficial in some production countries 
because it is often carried out by women and can be an 
important contributor to a family’s income.ACCREDITATION PROCESS
As part of the accreditation process and to assess H&M’s programmes, the FLA conducted 17 independent monitoring 
visits and five verification audits at production units in China 
during 2008. Prior to accreditation in late 2008, FLA representatives also visited our Head Office in Stockholm to 
review how we control our auditing procedures centrally. 
Following this, a three-day assessment visit took place at our 
Hong Kong and Guangzhou offices, and FLA representatives 
shadowed two follow-up audits with suppliers in Dongguan  and Shanghai. 
Following our accreditation, the FLA identified several  
areas where they felt H&M’s CSR programme is strong.  
These include:• Close integration of CSR into the business of H&M, as 
demonstrated in pre-order and sourcing decisions and 
practices
• Sophisticated analysis of audit findings
• Skilled auditor and training corps, with particular strength in the area of worker interviews and good knowledge of grievance procedures and MSDS (Material Safety Data Sheet)
• Openness to feedback
• Awareness raising of workers and management, not only on child labour issues but also on fake documents and 
undeclared subcontractors innovation.
The FLA also suggested some areas where H&M should place 
more emphasis, based on its assessment of our approach in China. These are:
• Further work in building a system to verify that production 
units are receiving the H&M code, are aware of it, are 
integrating code elements into internal factory management systems, and are educating workers on those standards
• Continued strengthening and consistent application of grievance procedures and complaints handling and tracking at all offices
• Increased training on freedom of association, particularly with respect to remediation
• Development of a system to track and document open non-
compliances and completed remediation
• Development of a more formal exit policy to ensure egregious 
non-compliances are addressed prior to exiting a factory and to maintain documentation of remediation efforts especially 
as related to IEMs
• More engagement with CSOs at the local level.OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
ContinueD H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        22At H&M we require our suppliers to inform us when home 
working is being used. In accordance with our home worker 
policy this includes requiring the following information  
per order:• Location of the production (village, city area, etc)
• Name and address of intermediaries (contractor/local agent)
• Number of workers involved
• Number of weeks for completing each home working order
• Average time needed to make one piece
• Piece rate paid to the worker.
In some countries, we now require our suppliers to make  sure that, through the contractor or local agent, the home 
workers receive a work agreement. Some countries have  
already implemented these procedures, some others are still  in early stages. Such a work agreement should include the 
following points:
• Children are not allowed to participate in the work
• Contact details of H&M’s supplier
• Piece rate for each order (before start of the production)
• Quantity to be produced
• Timescale for delivery
• Conditions for any deductions from payment.
Before production can start, a further requirement we are aiming for, to be implemented globally, is that the supplier must have visited the location of the home working. Where 
already in place, we require written confirmation from the 
supplier on this point.
AUDIT FINDINGS AND 
PROGRESS
In 2008 we conducted a total of 2,509 (1,983 in 2007) Code of 
Conduct compliance audits throughout the countries where our 
suppliers operate, shown in the following table by region.
total auDits by region   2008 2007
Far east   1,145 592
Asia   615 657
eMeA   749 734
total   2,509 1,983
The audits are made up of initial full audits (FAP) as well as 
follow-up audits (FUP) to discuss correction plans and progress. 
Of the 2,509 audits, 812 (948) were FAP audits. The majority of 
all audits were unannounced in 2008 to ensure we are seeing a true reflection of working conditions. Increasing the number of In many cases women home workers would be unable to take up employment due to household and parental responsibilities 
and women often tend to spend their income on their family, 
thereby improving living standards. For these reasons H&M has decided to accept home work in some situations. However, 
these situations are limited.
Our policy is that any operation that is part of the industrial 
process and can be performed in a factory should be performed there. Home work is only accepted when the work requires a 
special workmanship skill and can be considered as handicraft, 
such as beading or embroidery.
We do not accept home working for the following production 
processes:
• Assembly work
• Finishing (for example thread cutting)
• Fringing
• Packing of products or accessories to garments (for example 
spare buttons)
• Labelling
• Panel knitting
• Other types of simple tasks that can easily be performed in the factory
• Work involving any type of hazardous chemical that requires special ventilation or protective equipment.
MONITORING HOME WORKING
Home working often takes place in villages situated some distance from our suppliers’ factories and the challenge for 
H&M is in adapting our methods for monitoring workplace 
standards.
Some of the issues surrounding home working are that:
• It is not always regulated by a country’s labour laws
• There are often no formal contracts of employment
• Minimum wages may not be paid
• There may be issues with child labour
• There may be issues with illegal migrant workers
• Suppliers may be outsourcing simple tasks to avoid paying full wages and social security.OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
ContinueD H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        23CODE VIOLATIONS
We monitor and report the number of violations against our 
Code of Conduct and the developments suppliers make to 
address those situations. Full details can be found in the 
performance section online. 
SECOND-CYCLE MONITORING
We started implementing our Full Audit Programme in 2006 and we are now in the process of making second-cycle audits, 
which is a second full audit. In 2008 we made a total of 169 
second-cycle FAP audits (ten in the Far East, 107 in South  Asia and 52 in the EMEA). We have also started conducting 
some third-cycle FAP audits in South Asia and carried out six 
in 2008. 
We are beginning to see some trends emerging. We will focus 
on these issues during follow-up visits in the second FAP cycle.
TRENDS IDENTIFIED
Most of the audited production units have grievance policies and records are kept, but communication with workers needs to 
be more regular and frequent. We have also seen increasing 
numbers of genuine complaints recorded. Many production units have also recruited welfare officers who are involved in 
the grievance and complaints system. 
Welfare officers are also part of the education system and 
education for the workers is becoming common. However, it should still improve. Workers Welfare Committees, which help 
to improve communication between the management and 
factory workers, are also more common. However, these need to become more formalised and unfortunately in many cases the 
management selects members. We have identified that most 
production units have improved all types of leave. Maternity leave cases are more frequent and significant numbers are 
using the sick and casual leave to which they are entitled.
These trends are encouraging but there have also been serious 
violations identified. Cases of abuse have been found even though grievance systems are in place. It is still not easy for workers to obtain sick leave even though the numbers have 
improved. In addition, compensation for overtime in the heavy 
knit, knitting and dyeing sectors is not always paid consistently.unannounced audits has been a focus in 2008. In total, 64.1% 
of all audits (FAP and FUP) were unannounced. By region, 
70.1% of the audits in the Far East were unannounced, in 
South Asia 68.5% and 51.9% in the EMEA. 
Follow-up audits accounted for 1,697 (1,035) of the 2,509 visits 
and by region this equates to 842 (292) in the Far East, 386 
(425) in South Asia and 469 (318) in the EMEA and other 
countries. The high number of follow-up audits reflects the actual status in our audit cycle. The main purpose of follow-up 
audits is to assess how suppliers are addressing non-compliance 
issues identified during FAP audits.
full (faP) anD follow uP (fuP) auDits by region 2008
region faP auDits fuP auDits total
 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
Far east 303 300 842 292 1,145 592
south Asia 229 232 386 425 615 657
eMeA 280 416 469 318 749 734
total 812 948 1,697 1,035 2,509 1,983
SUPPLIER GRADING LEVEL
During 2008, 254 production units got graded ‘rejected’ due to 
Code of Conduct violations and as a result were suspended 
from working with H&M. Out of these production units 159 
remained rejected at the end of the year. However, if they make the necessary improvements and achieve at least the 
‘insufficient’ grade or higher, it will be possible to place orders 
with them. One supplier was permanently rejected during 2008, due to the repeated use of child labour.
By the end of 2008 the majority of production units being used 
were graded ‘insufficient’.
POTENTITAL NEW  
PRODUCTION UNITS
In 2008, 515 (505) audits on potentially new production units 
were conducted. 138 (111) were graded ‘rejected’ after the first 
audit. Some of these were considered to have potential for 
improvement and they were therefore given a second chance in connection with a follow-up audit. The total number of new 
production units that were finally approved to supply H&M was 
312 in 2008 (385).OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
ContinueD H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        24Film project to raise awareness of 
garment worker rights, Bangladesh 
Raising awareness about workers’ rights and responsibilities 
among workers and the management of our suppliers is an 
important part of our CSR work. From our long-term 
experience in Bangladesh we identified a need to raise awareness about rights and responsibilities among workers and 
managers, supervisors and line-chiefs.
To address this need we have produced a series of short films 
with an accompanying training manual aimed at this target 
group. To produce these materials we have collaborated with a 
local film production company and a number of local NGOs. 
Five films have been produced covering some of the key issues 
identified by our Full Audit Programme, namely: maternity 
leave, leave and documentation, abuse and grievance, health 
and safety, and overtime. Grievance systems and worker-management communication are cross-cutting issues and are 
emphasised in all the films. The films cover day-to-day 
scenarios that show how workers and managers can and should deal with situations that might arise. Besides raising 
awareness, we also aim to encourage more suppliers to improve 
their own training programmes, for example by using these materials to help educate new employees.
In 2008, 39,121 workers and 3,808 managers, supervisors and 
line-chiefs from 19 production units in Bangladesh viewed the 
films and received the associated training and training manual. We have evaluated the outcomes of this first phase with our 
suppliers and the feedback has been very positive. Workers 
found the films interesting, understandable and have claimed an increase in awareness of the issues, as well as improved 
communication and cooperation within the factory. The main 
feedback we received from middle managers, supervisors and line-chiefs was that the films were inspiring and provided them 
with a better understanding of workers’ situations. In 2009 this 
project will be rolled out at all of H&M’s suppliers in Bangladesh. We also aim to share the material with other 
brands or organisations wherever useful.Another trend that we have identified is that improving trust 
between H&M and our suppliers has led to greater 
transparency, with more realistic figures declared, particularly 
concerning overtime hours above the legal limit. Now we see the real picture and we must start to address those issues 
together with our suppliers. We need to find solutions for 
capacity building that result in reduced overtime hours without affecting capacity planning, productivity or lowering workers’ 
income, due to fewer working hours.
You can find more information on the findings from our 2008 
audits as well as on the progress made from the first to now second audit cycle at comparable production units in the 
performance section.
CAPACITY BUILDING
We actively work with our suppliers to increase their ability to 
improve working conditions, and to assist workers to 
understand their rights as employees. 
We strive to cooperate with others, such as NGOs or trade 
unions, where they have the best competence in a particular area. We also work with other brands wherever useful. The 
following is a summary of selected capacity-building activities 
in 2008.
ASIA
Supplier Development Programme (SDP) 
The Supplier Development Programme aims to increase factory 
productivity. Ten production units in the Far East have enrolled 
on the programme. Our expected CSR benefit from the 
programme is for workers to gradually reach the legal limit of working hours with maintained salary levels. First evaluations 
at one supplier showed a decrease in overtime of 30% while 
raising productivity.
Representatives from the suppliers involved in this programme 
have conducted audits together with H&M auditors. The pilot 
joint audits have been successful and the factories have shown 
transparency and also understood their own shortcomings. The suppliers have agreed to report back to H&M on a number of 
different key performance indicators (KPIs) relating to 
productivity.OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
ContinueD
 H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        25Gokaldas Exports training pilot  
project, India 
In 2007 we started a pilot project with one of our key Indian 
suppliers, Gokaldas Exports (GEX), together with the Fair Wear 
Foundation (FWF) and other brands to train the members of 
Gokaldas’s workers’ committees so that they are able to become more active and to improve worker-management 
communication.
This project ended in 2007 and we identified positive results, 
with awareness and communication improvements. Worker 
committee members were trained in their roles and 
responsibilities, middle management have opened committee meetings to other interested workers and in general the work 
environment has improved.
As a result of this positive feedback, we have developed the 
pilot into a programme we call ‘Enabling Worker Committees’, which is carried out with an external training provider. Four of 
our key suppliers in India are involved and by the end of 2008 
three had completed the programme, with the final one due to complete the programme in early 2009. We intend to evaluate 
the outcome during 2009.
Chemical training project,  
Advit Foundation, India 
During the past three years H&M’s Code of Conduct team in 
New Delhi identified the need to educate our suppliers on 
chemical issues. During our FAP audits we found that there 
was little progress by suppliers on issues related to chemical handling, labelling, educating workers on chemical hazards 
and the correct and adequate use of personal protective 
equipment (PPE).
As a result, we developed a training pilot with the NGO Advit 
Foundation to cover these issues, as well as improving 
hazardous waste management and disposal of used chemical 
containers. 
The training pilot was completed in August 2007 and has 
increased awareness levels among trained workers. In 2008 
workers and managers from five suppliers received training.  
In addition to supervisors and managers, departments such  as washing, cutting and stitching were represented. We are currently evaluating the feedback gathered from the attendees 
and will assess the impact on supplier practices through our 
audit findings during 2009.Management Training, SEDF  
and GAP Inc., Bangladesh
In 2007 we identified and announced a need to improve  
human resources management at our suppliers in Bangladesh. 
We also see the need to further raise the awareness of workers’ 
rights and other key requirements among management. We  feel that better functioning HR management systems and better 
communication tools are necessary to establish sustainable  
and long-lasting improvements.
In 2008 we started a programme to address this need in 
cooperation with SEDF and GAP Inc. As a first step, five 
production units joined workshops and training sessions and  a total of 16,976 workers and 784 middle managers attended 
during 2008. The outcome will be evaluated and analysed by 
H&M and GAP during the first half of 2009, but initial feedback has shown improved awareness and better 
communication between management and workers.
Awareness of workers’ rights in  
Tirupur, India 
H&M started working in cooperation with a local NGO, 
Sowkyam Foundation, in 2007 to improve and maintain the 
awareness of workers’ rights among workers and managers in 
the Tirupur region of India. Our aim is to minimise and prevent Code of Conduct violations. An important aspect of this project 
is that factory workers and middle managers work together in 
workshops to discuss issues directly with the aim of reaching common solutions. Issues discussed include basic human 
rights, working hours, wages and benefits, equal opportunity, 
health and occupational safety and workers’ committees.
The first training module started in November 2008 and ended 
in January 2009. During this period, 73 training sessions were 
held involving 3,717 attendees from eight production units in 
the area. The focus has been on workers’ rights and communication tools, including issues such as wages and 
benefits, leave, social security or workers’ committees. This first 
module showed a positive outcome and raised awareness on workers’ rights and the need for good communication. Further 
workshops will be conducted in 2009.OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
ContinueD
 H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        26aDDitional CoDe of ConDuCt awareness: We conducted six  
sessions training 90 supplier representatives in our Code  
of Conduct requirements.
sanDblasting: We trained representatives from all (seven) new 
suppliers using sandblasting units in an additional training course on our requirements for health and safety measures 
related to sandblasting and chemical treatment of garments,  
in particular denim.
home workers: Our Code of Conduct team conducted training 
with all suppliers making use of home work on our Code of 
Conduct requirements for home workers. The training provided 
suppliers with information to help them establish control systems to ensure home working complies with our Code of 
Conduct.
faP 2.0: We held three training events for our key suppliers to 
explain the changes to our Full Audit Programme – FAP 2.0.  In total, 66 people attended these training courses.Sandblasting in Bangladesh
During our regular audits with suppliers in Bangladesh, we have identified that the right personal protection equipment  
is not always used when working in sandblasting units, even 
though it is provided. Sandblasting can be used to treat denim products to give them a used, washed or distressed look. 
Without the correct protection measures, sandblasting poses 
serious risks to those carrying out the process. 
To stress the importance of always following H&M’s 
sandblasting requirements, we held workshops at 17 
production units in Bangladesh in 2008. In total, 466 workers and 81 middle managers attended the workshops. The training 
aims to empower workers and supervisors to educate other 
employees, leading to long-lasting capacity building. This training will be continued in 2009 until all production units 
performing sandblasting have received it. Right use of 
sandblasting equipment and correct protection measures are part of every FAP audit at all production units that perform 
sandblasting globally.
EMEA REGION
Code of Conduct training for Turkish 
suppliers and internal H&M employees  
– Turkey
As a key production country for H&M, Turkey is a market that 
requires high flexibility, speed and short production times. We 
have identified that our Turkish operations need to actively 
work on capacity building in order to avoid losing approved suppliers and subcontractors due to Code of Conduct breaches. 
In line with our aim to create a long-term business relationship 
with suppliers, the starting point is to educate both our suppliers and internal production teams on Code of Conduct 
requirements so that they can work towards ensuring changes 
have a lasting impact. 
During 2008 we carried out several training courses. Internally, 
we conducted ten training sessions for 120 employees and 
managers covering our Code of Conduct requirements. 
Externally we continuously worked on various issues through training courses:OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
ContinueD H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        27
OUR ENVIRONMENT
MANAGING  our business in a sustainable way includes minimising our 
impact on the environment. We aim to reduce the impact of 
our products during design, production, delivery and sales, as well as impacts from our workplace and business travel. Our new sustainability strategy strongly supports this aim.
As a global company we unquestionably have an impact on the environment. A clear 
understanding and programme of activities is essential to tackle this and to support our strategy 
to combine growth and sustainability.
KEY FOCUS AREAS
Key focus areas for 2008 included the reduction of our carbon dioxide emissions, promoting 
environmental responsibility in cotton growing and increasing our attention on water impacts 
throughout the life cycle of our products.
CHALLENGES
As with many parts of our business, one of the main challenges we face is that we need to 
influence our suppliers in order to improve the environmental performance of our products.  
We work with suppliers on environmental issues through our supplier Code of Conduct and 
related Full Audit Programme as well as other requirements such as restricting hazardous chemicals in our products. We also strive to contribute to improvements in raw material 
production, focusing on cotton farming and other stages in the production chain such as fabric 
production where we have less influence.
CEO WATER MANDATE
In June 2008 H&M signed the CEO Water Mandate, a voluntary initiative from the UN Global Compact. The CEO Water Mandate consists of a group of companies that has committed to  
work collectively on issues of sustainable water management. The mandate commits us to 
improve our own and our suppliers’ water efficiency, improve wastewater quality and report transparently on progress.
Find out more about the CEO Water Mandate online at www.hm.com/csr H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        28During 2008 we restructured our supplier auditing team and 
now have seven dedicated environment, health and safety 
(EHS) auditors conducting environmental audits in our supply 
chain as well as a global EHS coordinator.
In 2008 we identified the need to measure and monitor the 
carbon footprint of our supply chain. We are still at the early 
stages of tackling this challenge and have commissioned BSR 
to undertake a project to identify the key impact areas within the apparel sectors’ supply chain. Read more in Our Carbon 
Footprint.
In addition to monitoring wastewater quality of production 
units using wet processes, such as dyeing and washing, we have started working more actively with our suppliers on water use, 
in particular establishing their water use per kilo of products. 
This section gives an overview of the key impacts we address in 
our supply chain:
• Water and wastewater
• Chemical use in production processes
• Cotton, the most common material used in our products.
WATER AND WASTEWATER
During 2008 H&M signed the CEO Water Mandate, a voluntary 
initiative that requires us to improve and report both our own 
and our suppliers’ water efficiency and the quality of discharged 
wastewater.
We have been working for some years with our suppliers  
who have wet processes such as dyeing and washing. In 2008, 
we broadened this work to focus on water consumption in 
addition to wastewater because we feel we can be instrumental in bringing about positive change on how much water  
suppliers use.
MEASURING WATER USE
Towards the end of 2008 we, for the first time, collected water use data from wet processing units operated or subcontracted 
by our suppliers. The figures have been compared to production 
to give a water efficiency figure of litres of water used per kilo of product.ENVIRONMENTAL 
MANAGEMENT
We will continue to manage environmental impacts in  
three areas:
• Supply chain 
• Transportation of our goods
• In our stores, distribution centres and offices. 
LONG-TERM GOALS
Our long-term environmental goals provide focus for all  of our environmental activities wherever they take place in  
our business:
resPeCt for the environment is an integral Part of h&m’s anD  
our suPPly Chain’s business PraCtiCes. through resPonsible  
aCting anD innovative thinking we Contribute to sustainable  
use of raw materials anD energy, Pollution Prevention anD a  
low-Carbon-emitting soCiety.
For more on our environmental goals and performance please 
visit the Performance section online.
Following the development of our sustainability strategy during 
2008, responsibility for meeting environmental goals will be 
shared by each individual business unit. Within our operations the environmental management process is already well 
embedded so we are confident with our new, shared 
responsibility approach.
OUR IMPACTS IN THE  
SUPPLY CHAIN
A significant proportion of our impact on the environment 
certainly occurs in our supply chain through the activities of 
our suppliers.
Influencing them to make environmental improvements often 
goes in line with protecting the health and safety of those working in our suppliers’ factories and ensuring our products’ 
quality. The requirements we place on our suppliers regarding 
chemical handling and storage, wastewater treatment, waste management and management of certain production processes, 
such as sandblasting, are part of our audits wherever applicable. 
We also require our suppliers to comply with our chemical restrictions. Compliance with our requirements is monitored 
through our Full Audit Programme and chemical testing.OUR ENVIRONMENT
ContinueD
 H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        29audit programme. Within our regular audit programme we also 
check if sludge resulting from wastewater treatment is handled 
according to legal requirements.
PROGRESS IN 2008
In 2008 the wastewater quality of 162 production units with 
wet processes was assessed against the BSR guidelines, 
compared to 146 in 2007. During 2008:
• 73.4% of suppliers reported biological oxygen demand (BOD) 
within the lowest threshold (less or equal to 30mg/l), an improvement from 61.7% in 2007
• 90.6% of suppliers reported chemical oxygen demand (COD) within the lowest threshold (less or equal to 200mg/l), an improvement from 83.7% in 2007
• 58.5% of suppliers reported total suspended solids (TSS) results within the lowest threshold (less or equal to 30mg/l), a slight reduction from 59.8% in 2007.
PerCentage of suPPliers within the lowest thresholD for w ater 
Quality Parameters (mg/l)During 2009 we will further analyse the data to get an understanding of what different levels of water efficiency look like for different products. Because there are many different 
types of wet processing for different fabrics and product types, 
our challenge is not only to find comparable measures but also to understand how to set water efficiency protocols and 
improvement plans for suppliers operating different production 
measures or in different locations.
Our aim is that once we have analysed suppliers’ water 
efficiency and total water use we will compare locations of the 
factory with maps of water scarcity in order to prioritise 
factories that need to focus on more water-efficient production.
water use effiCienCy inDex for suPPliers with wet ProCessing 
(litres/kilo of ProDuCt)
Less than 100 l/kg products  71% 
100-200 l/kg products  16% 
More than 200 l/kg products  13%
WASTEWATER
H&M requires suppliers who carry out wet processes to treat 
their wastewater to improve its quality and make it as safe as 
possible for discharge back into the environment. Since 2006 
we have asked for discharged wastewater to meet specific quality levels developed by a working group within Business for 
Social Responsibility (BSR).
This requirement focuses on key water quality parameters that 
measure organic and chemical pollution levels and suspended solids within the wastewater. Relevant heavy metals are banned 
within our chemicals restriction list and are therefore not tested 
for in wastewater quality tests.
To date, we have monitored wastewater quality by asking 
suppliers to submit results from standard quality tests, which 
we then assess against the guideline BSR quality levels. 
Suppliers can either use laboratories that are recommended by H&M or use the same testing standards as those used by our 
recommended laboratories. Suppliers found to have values over 
the limit prescribed are requested to draft action plans.
Because a number of results from suppliers were returned with 
very low values for some or all of the quality parameters, we 
conducted a number of unannounced visits during 2008 to 
verify the authenticity of those values. These visits were part of unannounced follow-up visits relating to our Code of Conduct OUR ENVIRONMENT
ContinueD
BOD <30 MG/L COD <200 MG/L
Water quality parameterTSS >30 MG/L58.5% 59.8%90.6%
83.7%
73.4%
61.7%2007 2008 H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        30CLEANER FABRIC PRODUCTION
Over the past three years, H&M has increasingly encouraged 
fabric mills with dyeing processes to contribute to cleaner 
fabric production. Some of our suppliers are vertically 
integrated, which means that they have dyeing operations  in house.
With all direct suppliers our auditing programme starts with 
our Code of Conduct. We normally do not have a direct 
relationship with the mills that supply our suppliers with fabric so our approach relies on fabric mills getting involved on a 
voluntary basis. 
Within our Cleaner Production Programme, H&M auditors 
visit fabric mills to assess the potential for improvement and  to demonstrate positive environmental actions that can be 
taken. Fabric mills are selected for the programme according  
to two criteria:
• There is a significant business relationship between the  
fabric mills and H&M’s suppliers
• There is scope for improvement at the mill.
It is voluntary for the mills to implement measures and H&M offers practical tools for them to use. The programme consists of around 40 easy-to-implement environmental measures so 
that effects can be seen quickly and the mills are motivated to 
make changes. Many are directly linked to cost savings and profitability improvements for the mill, making clear the 
environmental and financial gains. 
PROGRESS 2008
In 2008 we held a workshop in Shanghai for fabric mills 
looking to reduce resource use in production. The business 
benefits of environmental improvements, particularly financial 
savings, were outlined to the attendees to help them understand the double benefit of investing in environmental improvements. 
Ten of the attending factories are now welcome to join the 
Cleaner Production Programme with a service provider specialised in cleaner production.CHEMICALS
Producing clothes can require intensive use of chemicals. We work actively to limit the use of harmful chemicals in all our 
products – for the sake of the environment and the safety of 
employees within our supply chain, our own employees and our customers. Key stages we focus on include chemical use in 
cotton growing (for example through the use of organic cotton), 
in fabric dyeing and in garment treatment.
Certain harmful chemicals are banned in production processes 
and residues must not be present in finished garments, while 
others are allowed in limited quantities. All of these limit values 
and bans are gathered together in H&M’s Chemical Restrictions list, a list of restrictions that all suppliers must 
sign up to. The list has been updated nine times since 1995, 
most recently in 2008, and now contains around 270 restricted substances. In 2008 more than 30,000 chemical tests were 
performed.
When deciding which chemicals to include in the restrictions 
list our decisions are based on the following:
• Legislation: We take into account all relevant legislation and 
we are in contact with the relevant authorities in various 
countries (e.g. the Swedish Chemicals Agency)
• Stakeholder materiality: We keep track of consumer tests, 
NGO activities and the media in order to remain informed of 
issues stakeholders consider material
• Chemical analysis: 
    –   We test different materials to see if the chemical poses  a risk
    –   We contact external laboratories to see how the chemical 
can be analysed 
    –   We contact chemical companies to see how common the chemical is in textile manufacture and if there are safer alternatives.
For more information about our approach to chemicals 
management in our products, including information on  
how we are meeting REACH legislation, please see the  Our Products section on page 40.
OUR ENVIRONMENT
ContinueD H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        31ORGANIC COTTON
Our objective is to gradually use more organically grown cotton 
and we are happy to be able to respond to growing interest in 
organic cotton from our customers. In 2006 we used 30 tonnes 
of organic cotton and have increased this amount to 1,300 in 2007 and 3,000 tonnes in 2008. We have set a long-term target 
to increase organic cotton use by at least 50% every year until 
2013, based on each previous year’s target. This means that our 
target for 2009 has already been met at the end of 2008. 
Since March 2007 our customers have been able to buy 
fashionable clothes from a collection for women, men, teenagers and children made from 100% organically grown 
cotton. We also sell blended organic cotton products that 
contain 50% organic and 50% conventional cotton.
All of our organic cotton is certified by Control Union, who 
require suppliers to verify that the cotton is organic with the 
correct documentation. All our organic cotton is grown in 
Turkey, India and China.
ORGANIC WOOL AND  
RECYCLED FIBRES
In autumn 2008 we started to use other innovative and 
sustainable materials, such as organic wool, recycled wool and 
recycled polyester, on a small scale. This is a first step in testing 
possibilities using these new materials and an investment in potential innovative future opportunities.
Organic wool comes from sheep that are raised on organic 
pastures and are given organic feed. In addition to this the 
sheep themselves are not treated with insecticides.
Recycled polyester comes from recycled PET (plastic) bottles or 
textile remnants. Wool has been recycled from textile remnants. 
In spring 2009 recycled cotton will also be used in some 
garments.COTTON
Cotton is the most common fibre used by H&M and we actively contribute to reducing the environmental impact of cotton 
growing. Our strategy is made up of three parts:
• We seek to improve conventional cotton growing by 
collaborating with others
• We try to promote organic cotton growing by contributing to 
increased demand
• We aim to source cotton from farmers in transition from 
conventional to organic cotton.
CONVENTIONAL COTTON
The vast majority of cotton used by H&M is conventional cotton, and cotton supply faces some serious challenges and has 
many associated impacts. From a growing perspective, climate 
change, water scarcity and rising prices for inputs such as fertilisers will influence future cotton supply.
From an environmental perspective, cotton is a high-impact 
crop. According to WWF research cotton needs an average of 
8,500 litres of water to grow one kilo of cotton lint, equivalent to one pair of jeans. From a social point of view, improvements 
for cotton growers are also needed.
At H&M we want to play our part in helping to address these 
challenges and to improve the sustainability of our most important raw material. We work with the Better Cotton 
Initiative (BCI), an initiative involving leading retailers and 
WWF. The BCI is a long-term initiative that aims to promote the use of improved farm practices where more cotton can be 
grown while reducing water and chemical use. H&M is a 
member of the BCI steering committee. 
IMPLEMENTATION
The BCI is not a labelling scheme, nor will it provide  Fairtrade or organic cotton – it aims to make all cotton more 
sustainable. During the 2009/10 growing season BCI will  
start implementation in Pakistan, India, West and Central Africa and Brazil, with the aim of refining and finalising the 
‘Better Cotton’ system which will be launched in the 2011 
growing season.OUR ENVIRONMENT
ContinueD
 H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        32PARTNERSHIP PROJECTS
We recognise that addressing transport issues can best be 
achieved by collaborating with others, for example to develop 
common requirements for transport providers. It will also lead 
to improved environmental performance and cost saving. 
Road transport
All of H&M’s road transport providers have to meet certain environmental criteria and we monitor this on an annual  
basis. You can find our current requirements online at  www.hm.com/csr . In 2008 we reviewed our approach and 
decided on collaborating with some members of the European 
Retail Round Table (ERRT, www.errt.or g). Together we started 
to develop a performance matrix tool for road transport 
providers. The initiative is underway, and we plan to finalise 
the tools during 2009. Although not directly developed as part 
of the ERRT workplan, it will be available from and promoted by the ERRT during 2009.
Biodiesel
We are part of a collaboration with, among others, IKEA,  Volvo Logistics and Preem, which strives to increase the use of 
biodiesel in haulage. The project aims to establish a network of 
biodiesel refilling stations in Sweden. It was developed in 2008 and will be implemented from spring 2009. We see our support 
for biodiesel as a first step in encouraging our transport 
providers to use more sustainable fuel sources. All the grain used for producing the fuel is sourced from Europe.
Clean Shipping Project
We also aim to develop a transport questionnaire for shipping providers in a collaborative approach with the Clean Shipping 
Project.
The Clean Shipping Project is a project aiming to improve the 
environmental performance of the shipping industry. Companies that are cargo owners or buy shipping services sign 
up to be members of the Clean Shipping Network. The network 
has signed a letter of intent to start to place environmental demands on shipping providers and to begin to use the Clean 
Shipping Index when buying shipping services.
The Clean Shipping Index is an environmental performance 
index made up of 20 environmental aspects of importance for 
shipping. It needs to be filled in by shipping providers for individual vessels and helps to establish an environmental TRANSITIONAL COTTON
By creating demand for more organic cotton we can help  create an incentive for more growers to shift to organic 
cultivation. However, the transition from conventional cotton 
farming to organic takes three years and this presents challenges. Although the land is not considered organic for the 
transition period, organic standards apply immediately. This 
can mean lower crop yields during the changeover, and farmers 
cannot yet charge an organic premium for their cotton. To 
support farmers we have decided to begin using cotton grown during this changeover phase, known as transitional cotton.
For 2008 we set a target to use 50 tonnes of transitional  
cotton, which we did not achieve due to limited availability 
when we placed orders. For 2009 our transitional cotton  target is 250 tonnes.
TRANSPORTING GOODS
Transport of our goods accounts for 55% of the carbon dioxide emissions generated by our activities. 
The size and geographical spread of our business requires 
numerous means of transport in various parts of the world.  
As our business grows, our transportation needs will also increase. The challenge for H&M is to meet our transportation 
needs with the smallest possible use of natural resources and  
as low emissions as possible.
Achieving transport with less impact on the environment at 
H&M entails working with environmentally sound transport 
companies and switching to rail and/or sea transport solutions 
where possible. Optimising transport for increased efficiency with reduced fuel consumption, increased use of renewable 
fuels and cleaner energy solutions can also lead to lower costs 
for the company.
PROGRESS IN 2008
We focus on using transport solutions that include rail and sea transports and try to avoid air and truck transport wherever 
possible. For example, we increased the share of train 
transportation from Turkey to Germany, Austria and the Netherlands from 5% to 50% during 2008. 
Carbon dioxide emissions caused by air transport decreased by 
16% on a like-for-like store basis and by 5% overall in 2008.OUR ENVIRONMENT
ContinueD
 H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        33Hangers
In 2008 76% of the hangers we purchased were recycled. Most 
of the remaining hangers are reused in store.
Reducing transport labelling
In 2008 we started to change our markings on the side of delivery boxes to reduce paper use and waste. We are changing 
the size of paper used for packaging labels to A5 from A4 and 
only sticking labels on one side of transport boxes rather than 
three. Initial calculations suggest this will reduce paper use for 
labelling packages by approximately 80-85%. 
Mail order paper and packaging
We provide mail order and internet shopping in Sweden, Norway, Finland, Denmark, the Netherlands, Germany and 
Austria. In 2008 all paper used in our mail order catalogues 
was manufactured by Chain of Custody certified mills and the majority of the fibre originated from certified forests. The paper 
also carries the European Union Eco Label, better known as the 
EU Flower, which guarantees the environmental credentials of the paper. All printers used for catalogue printing are certified 
to the ISO14001 environmental management system. And all of 
our mail order packaging boxes are made of cardboard with at least 60% recycled content. 
Plastic consumer bags
Over the past two years we have conducted a significant life cycle analysis on plastic bags. The study compared virgin and 
recycled polyethylene (PE) plastic, paper, starch-based plastic, 
Oxi-bio plastic and green PE, which is made from wood cellulose rather than oil.
From a life cycle perspective, the study has shown that PE 
plastic is one of the materials for bags with the least impact on 
the environment, especially when made from recycled PE. This goes against the common perception that plastic has a high 
environmental impact, but compared to paper, PE requires half 
the energy and less water to produce. The study showed that:
• PE bags need less energy in production than many other 
options
• They use less space during transport, particularly compared to paper bags
• PE bags are durable and can be reused
• PE bags can be easily recycledgrade for ships that buyers can then use when buying shipping services. The index covers the following categories:
• Chemicals
• Water, fuel and waste control
• CO
2
• NOx
• SOx and PM (particulate matter)
More details can be found at www.cleanshippingproject.se
During 2008 H&M was also actively involved in the BSR 
working group Clean Cargo, which aims for similar objectives. 
To concentrate our efforts in this area we decided that in 2009 
we will focus on the Clean Shipping Project.
We are confident that these joint initiatives will enable us to 
develop more robust environmental criteria for both road and sea transport providers, and ultimately lead to improved 
performance.
OUR STORES AND OPERATIONS
In-store energy use
The energy used in our stores, offices and distribution centres 
accounts for 37% of our total carbon footprint.
Waste
Solid waste is a significant issue in our stores and at our distribution centres. Stores are provided with guidance on how 
to handle waste including hazardous materials (e.g. fluorescent 
tube lights, batteries, electronic equipment, glues and other chemicals). We have environmental guidelines on how to 
handle waste and minimise the energy use in our stores. During 
2009 we intend to update these guidelines.
Sales countries handle solid waste in a variety of ways, 
according to the facilities available to the store within their 
country of operation. Some stores use the waste-handling 
facilities of the shopping centre or landlord, others have separate waste-handling contracts or return waste to H&M’s 
distribution centres. This provides a challenge for data 
gathering and we do not have consistent data from around H&M.OUR ENVIRONMENT
ContinueD
 H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        34H&M’S APPROACH TO  
CLIMATE CHANGE
To tackle the goal of reducing our carbon footprint and to 
commit ourselves further to a long-term approach on reducing 
our carbon footprint we established several activities and long-
term ambitions in 2007 (please see our 2007 CSR Report). 
Some of these activities and ambitions have been set up as 
targets that have been met during 2008 or are to be 
implemented during 2009 and 2010. Some other objectives will require more time and in-depth planning. Others define general 
procedures to which we are committed. You can read about 
related progress throughout this section. 
IMPACTS IN THE  
PRODUCTION PROCESS
One of our key challenges is to identify those parts of  
the production process that have the greatest impact on  
the climate.
In 2008 we began to look for a method for measuring the 
carbon footprint of the manufacturing process of our products. A broad, general view of carbon emissions in the life cycle of 
our products will inform overall priority setting for initiatives 
related to supply chain and product stewardship. We think that a joint approach to developing this method is best.
During 2009 we plan to work on an initiative together with 
BSR (Business for Social Responsibility, www.bsr.or g) to 
investigate carbon emissions across the whole life cycle for 
apparel. The initiative takes a research-based review and 
analysis approach to examining current understanding and best 
practice. The research will look at expert opinions and publicly-available sources such as articles and reports.
The initiative aims to deliver on the two-fold objectives of:1. Developing a general overview of high-carbon emissions 
hotspots (a ‘carbon heat-map’) in our supply chain to support 
overall priority-setting 
2. Promoting the sharing of resources among our peers for 
deeper analysis and, potentially, further collaborative action. 
We have set ourselves the target of developing this method during 2009. We aim to initiate supply chain carbon-footprint 
monitoring in 2010.• 85% of PE’s embodied energy can be extracted when incinerated
• When incinerated, only water and carbon dioxide are 
produced
• In the longer term, ‘green PE’, which is made from wood 
cellulose rather than being oil based, will be a very good 
alternative since it has the same characteristics as traditional 
PE but comes from a renewable resource.
As a result of our consumer bag research, we will continue to use PE bags in our stores (in some markets paper bags are also used). However, we are moving towards using only recycled PE.
In-store communication materials
From autumn 2009 we are changing our standard poster size and using poster frames that will allow us to print on paper 
instead of board, resulting in a reduction of this material’s use 
and waste of around 50%. Also in 2009 we will start to use sales communications material that can be reused for more 
than one sales campaign.
Shop fittings
Producing shop fittings can have environmental impacts. We 
have had standard requirements for sustainable shop fittings 
for several years. This states the materials that are acceptable 
and those that are not. The requirements are distributed to suppliers who refurbish or build our stores. During 2008 we 
updated these requirements. 
We are currently also working on revising our Code of Conduct 
for our suppliers. The revision aims to extend the requirements from applying only to our production partners to applying to 
other suppliers such as our shop fittings contractors. We plan to 
roll-out this revision during 2009.
OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT
Since 2005 we have set a clear goal that commits us to reduce our carbon footprint by 10% by 2009 compared to a 2004 
baseline year. Our approach to climate change aims to reduce 
the impact throughout the life cycle of our products, focusing on production in our supply chain, transport, and our stores, 
distribution centres and offices. OUR ENVIRONMENT
ContinueD H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        35We are not yet able to publish data about the efforts we have 
undertaken so far in this area. However, during 2008 we did 
undertake several initiatives to reduce the energy use in our 
stores and other sales operations. For more information please see the section on energy use in our stores, offices and 
distribution centres on page 35.
We also aim to make it easier for customers to save energy 
when using the products they have bought from us. On the 
customer service pages of our corporate website we recommend lowering washing temperatures to save energy and provide 
further information on how our customers can handle our 
garments in order to reduce the impact on the environment.
CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS
We monitor and measure energy use and carbon dioxide (CO2) 
emissions across our business. Included in our corporate 
carbon inventory are the emissions from energy use in our 
stores, distribution centres and offices, and those caused by transporting H&M goods as well as our business travel and 
Company-owned cars. 
Our target is to reduce CO
2 emissions between 2005 and 2009 
by 10% relative to sales, using 2004 as our baseline year. 
Between 2004 and 2005 our emissions rose but we have made 
continuous improvements to reduce them and since 2006 have seen figures below the 2004 baseline. Accordingly, we are a 
good way on to meet and exceed our target set for the end of 
2009.TRANSPORT AND TRAVEL
In 2008 we took part in a number of initiatives to reduce the impact of transporting our products, please see the 
Transporting Goods section of this report on page 32 for more 
details. Travel amounted to 8% of our carbon footprint in 2008.
Since 2007 we have been offering audio and web conferencing 
solutions. These have been broadly promoted through our 
intranet travel book tool and various meetings during 2008. As 
a result, the use of these systems increased by 51% in 2008 compared to the previous year. We have also assessed the use of 
video conferences, but came to the conclusion that, for now, 
audio and web conferences are the most cost-efficient solutions. 
During 2008 we also revised our travel policy to include more 
stringent environmental considerations. The revised policy will be implemented and communicated during 2009. It requires all 
employees at H&M travelling for business purposes to ensure 
that: 
1. Each trip is well justified and cannot be replaced by, for 
instance, a phone- or web-conference
2. When choosing the place of a meeting, the distance travelled by all attendees and the accessibility by public transport is considered
3. Appropriate means of transport are selected: •  Trains should be used for all journeys of less than  600km if sensible
 •  Public transportation should be used rather than  taxis when this is available, safe and time permitting
 •  Cars should always be shared by colleagues  
wherever possible.
Each manager is responsible for ensuring that these 
requirements are met in his or her department.
SALES
In accordance with the Retail Declaration on Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, within the framework of the European 
Retail Round Table (ERRT), H&M commits to: 
• Reduce energy consumption per square metre of commercial 
premises by a minimum of 20% by 2020 compared to base 
year 2007 reference levels
• Work towards exceeding the European Commission’s target 
of sourcing 20% renewable energy by 2020.OUR ENVIRONMENT
ContinueD H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        36ENERGY USE IN STORES, OFFICES 
AND DISTRIBUTION CENTRES
When stores are designed we have targets for the energy 
efficiency of our lighting. Depending on the design and concept 
of the store, we target either 30 or 40 watts per square metre. 
In a Berlin store trial, we managed to dim spotlights and 
downlights without compromising the effect of the lighting or 
the look of the products. During 2009 we will implement 
default dimming levels for lighting in all new stores, resulting in immediate energy savings. Our goal is to dim spotlights and 
downlights in new stores by 13% in 2009.
During 2008 we implemented restrictions on the maximum 
lighting level installed in non-public parts of our stores. We also provided clear information on how to light our stores at 
different times of the day, according to opening hours.
In 2008 we also started to install remote access energy meters 
in all new stores so that we can better monitor and manage energy use. Our experience from several countries shows that 
regular 24-hour monitoring of energy use can help highlight 
issues that can be corrected. Examples include heating and air conditioning equipment or lighting that runs when not needed 
either as a result of control failures or incorrect turn-off 
procedures.
In October 2008 we opened our largest distribution centre yet 
in Hamburg, Germany. When planning the facility, sustainable 
thinking was taken into account. For example, the roof has 
5,300 square metres of solar panels. The H&M-owned installation contributes renewable energy capacity to the grid. 
Estimated yearly electricity production from the installation is 
480,000 kWh, which makes carbon dioxide reductions of up to 480 tonnes possible. The solar power plant is the largest of its 
kind in the Hamburg region.Co
2 emissions 
(tonnes Per million sek turnover inCluDing vat)
As shown in the chart in 2008 we emitted 2.70 tonnes of CO2 
per million SEK turnover. This means an increase of 5% from 
2.57 tonnes of CO2 per million SEK turnover in 2007. The total 
actual carbon dioxide emissions for 2008 were 280,634 tonnes, an increase of 18.4% compared to 2007. Year-on-year our total 
energy consumption rose by 10.7% throughout the entire company, while our turnover increased by 13%.
Part of the increase in emissions in 2008 is the result of 
changed rules when reporting CO
2 emissions from renewable 
electricity purchased in the UK. Previously, UK electricity customers were able to buy renewable energy and use this as a 
‘zero-carbon’ in CO
2 calculations. This is how H&M treated 
renewable electricity purchased in the UK in previous years’ 
CO2 calculations. The UK’s voluntary reporting rules for CO2 
emissions have now changed because renewable electricity is already included within the carbon intensity of the UK’s 
standard grid electricity, which includes all sources of electricity generation. 
H&M have applied these new rules for calculating CO
2 
emissions for our 2008 emissions and this has played a part in 
emissions from electricity consumption increasing by 60% 
compared to 2007. This source of emissions now stands for 34% of all emissions (2007: 25%). 
Significant areas of the business where reductions were 
achieved were in air transport (total and relative to sales) and 
business travel (relative to sales). 
Find more details about our CO
2 emissions in the performance 
section online.OUR ENVIRONMENT
ContinueD
2009
CO2 Emissions (tonnes per million SEK turnover including VAT)3.45
20082.70
20072.57
20063.75
20054.15
20043.84Actual Target H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        37
OUR PRODUCTS
OUR business concept is to offer our customers fashion and quality at the best price. 
To H&M quality includes meeting or exceeding our customers’ expectations of 
our products and of H&M as a company.
Our customers expect our products to be practical, durable, well made, well fitting, functional, 
safe and free from harmful chemicals – so do we. To fulfil this we are continuously developing our methods and processes to improve the quality and design of our products. We have a strict quality 
assurance process in place that starts in the early stages of the product life cycle. This includes 
the design, fabrics and manufacturing of the product. Find out more about our approach to quality assurance on page 38.
One of our challenges is to apply our high-quality standards to new designs and products as well 
as meeting regulations when entering new markets. To achieve this, we have one set of global 
product quality standards. These apply wherever we operate and meet or exceed the strictest regulations in any of the countries where our products are being sold. Find out more about our 
child safety standards on page 39 or our restrictions on the use of chemicals on page 40.
H&M must also be responsive to our customers’ demands. We see a growing interest and awareness 
of environmental and social issues among our customers. They question where their products come from, how they are made and, increasingly, what they are made of. Find out how we are responding 
to this interest on page 41 and 31. Our efforts to reduce our overall environmental impact from 
page 27 and to improve workplace conditions in our supply chain are covered from page 14.
Each week we come into contact with millions of people through our stores. Our stores are our 
most important channel of communication. But many people also see our advertising and of 
course we want it to be regarded positively by our customers and the communities around us. 
Find out about our approach to responsible advertising on page 42.
This also means that we are able to connect with our customers to raise awareness of issues of 
importance and can really make a positive difference. Find out about our Fashion Against AIDS 
campaign on page 43.
PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY
Nobody should be harmed when our products are being made or used.
We aim to ensure that customers are safe and also satisfied with our products.  
Our focus areas are:
• Ensuring and improving the quality of our products
• Ensuring and improving their safety
• Restricting the use of harmful chemicals in products. H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        38proactively. These Quality Assurance teams have the task  
of identifying and solving problems at an early stage in the 
production cycle of our products. 
Our Quality Assurance teams need to pay particular attention 
to ready-made garments. But we have recognised that we can also make a big difference earlier in the process, for example  
at the initial fabric stage. Our Quality Assurance teams check 
potential risks such as the use of chemicals, colourfastness  and the durability of details such as zippers and buttons.
QUALITY ASSURANCE THROUGHOUT 
OUR PRODUCTS’ LIFE CYCLE
Once they have been designed, our products go through the 
following stages in their life cycle:
• Raw materials selection
• Fabric manufacture
• Clothing manufacture
• Transportation
• Sale
• Use by customers.
WORKING CLOSELY WITH 
COLLEAGUES
Our standards and regulations help us to prevent quality issues 
from arising. However, we do recognise the importance of close 
cooperation between our Quality Assurance teams and Product 
Developers, Research and Development staff, Merchandiser teams at the production offices and suppliers. Working together 
we can identify potential risks and manage them appropriately.
WORKING WITH SUPPLIERS
H&M works very closely with our suppliers to ensure our 
products maintain our quality standards. We have lengthy tests 
and quality controls in place as part of our company’s buying 
operations and quality assurance is carried out at all stages in the process, including:
• Pre-production meeting 
• Initial inspection 
• Inline inspection 
• Final inspection.In 2008 there were over 300 people working directly on these 
issues at both our Head Office and in our production offices 
throughout the world. During 2008 we updated our product policy, which guides everyone within the business.
h&m’s ProDuCt PoliCy
• H&M does not sell genuine fur.
• H&M sells leather only from cows, buffalo, sheep, goats 
and pigs raised for meat production.
• H&M does not buy leather from India due to the occurrence 
of cruel animal transportation there.
• H&M does not buy silk from India due to poor working 
conditions in the Indian silk industry.
• H&M does not accept mulesing, a procedure performed on 
merino sheep in order to prevent fly-strike.
• H&M products do not contain material deriving from 
endangered species.
• Down and feathers are only accepted from the carcasses of 
birds raised for meat production. H&M also requires certification showing that the down and feathers have been properly washed and sterilised.
• For products manufactured from wood originating in 
countries with tropical rain forests, H&M requires a Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certificate.
• H&M children’s clothing should be comfortable and practical. 
H&M strives not to sell children’s clothing that might be perceived as provocative.
• Prints on tops and other goods may not be offensive, racist, 
sexist, political or religious.
• All goods are labelled with their country of origin.
In this section you can read about how we work internally and 
with our suppliers to:
• Ensure our quality and safety standards are met (see page 38)
• Address child safety (see page 39)
• Restrict the use of harmful chemicals (see page 40)
• Deliver several other initiatives (see page 41).
QUALITY ASSURANCE
We have had our own lab teams at our production offices 
performing physical, chemical and safety tests for several years. 
All in all, H&M conducted around 360,000 quality tests in 
2008. More than 30,000 of these tests were chemical tests, over 20,000 of which were conducted in external laboratories. 
During 2008 we implemented a new work method and 
reorganised our lab teams with the aim of working more OUR PRODUCTS
ContinueD
 H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        39Training our staff
We aim to train everyone working with children’s wear about 
child safety requirements, whether they work in design, buying 
or production. Everyone working with children’s wear should 
be trained to foresee potential risks with a product. We also provide training in this area to our suppliers.
Working in partnership
Child safety is an issue of common concern for the whole industry. Working together with our competitors, we can gain 
insights from each other about safety issues and the best ways 
to meet regulatory requirements. We value our collective involvement in European working committees where EU 
regulations are set. We believe this process of involving both 
regulators and industry representatives in these working committees results in better regulations.
Product recall
In December 2008 we decided to recall a baby cardigan due  to significant fibre shedding. We had received two customer 
complaints, although fortunately no injuries had occurred.  
The complainants pointed out that when children sucked on  the acrylic and wool cardigan, they pulled lots of the fibres into 
their mouths. In addition, fibres were getting stuck on pacifiers. 
Once we were made aware of the issue, we recalled the product.
We regret that the cardigan passed through our entire quality 
and safety testing and production process without this defect 
being detected. The material was new to children’s wear and 
our testing had not identified this risk. We will not be using the material in children’s garments again.
In the rare case of a product recall, we have in place established 
and robust routines and guidelines. Following these, we 
informed our customers immediately about the product recall and their entitlement to a full refund, placing signs in store 
windows and at the checkouts of those stores with children’s 
sections. In some countries we placed advertisements in newspapers. We met the legal requirements of every country 
where the cardigan was sold.
The previous product recall was in October 2006 and concerned 
a detachable compass on a children’s jacket.SUPPORTING OUR CUSTOMERS IN 
PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT
When labelling our garments, we always state the highest 
possible wash temperature. However, the greatest share of a 
product’s energy consumption is in the customer’s washing at 
home. We feel it is important to encourage our customers to lower the temperature they use for washing clothes. Lowering 
the wash temperature to 40°C from 60°C reduces energy use by 
about half. That is why on the customer service pages of our 
corporate website we recommend lowering the temperature to 
save energy and also provide other tips on caring for clothes in the best way for the environment.
CHILD SAFETY
We are committed to ensuring that children are safe when wearing our products. We have a strong focus on child  
safety throughout all stages of production, starting at the 
design stage. 
The highest standards
Our child safety standards meet or exceed the strictest regulations in place in any of the countries where our  
products are sold. We have created guidelines and training 
materials for our staff based on these standards.
Risk assessment
For each product intended for children, we conduct a risk assessment to check if the product might be a potential  
hazard when being used by a child. For example, we can 
minimise the risk of accidental trapping by allowing no drawstrings with loose ends around the neck or hood area and 
designing all hoods on outerwear to be detachable. We carry 
out quality and safety tests at every stage of the production process, including: 
• Testing of all sewn-on buttons, press-studs, cords,  
decoration etc., to ensure their durability following normal 
washing and use
• Ensuring that no children’s garments are treated with flame retardants, which could irritate children’s sensitive skin
• Checking all garments before packing, for example by passing them through a needle detection machine. OUR PRODUCTS
ContinueD H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        40phthalates can be used in H&M products. This has led to the 
substitution of the phthalate DMP , dimethylphthalate, in plastic 
buttons used on H&M garments. 
LEAD
We have enforced strict restrictions and test routines on the 
heavy metal lead, which can be found in items such as metal 
jewellery. Any chemical testing that we commission is 
conducted by an independent laboratory.
REACH (Registration, Evaluation, 
Authorisation and Restriction of 
Chemicals)
REACH is the European chemical legislation, which came into 
force in 2007. It seeks to reduce exposure to harmful chemicals. 
It also requires that substances produced in or imported into 
the European Union are registered. H&M was an early supporter of the legislation. We were prepared for it and had 
made all the necessary pre-registrations for our cosmetics 
products. Clear common standards and more accessible information about certain chemicals have helped us improve 
communication with our suppliers in this area. 
During October 2008 REACH introduced a list of substances 
that are known as Substances of Very High Concern (SVHC). SVHCs are chemicals with properties that can, for example, 
harm our reproductive system, alter our DNA or persist for 
long periods in the wider environment. When importing into the EU, companies need to notify the European Chemicals 
Agency, ECHA, if articles contain more than 0.1% SVHC and if 
the total amount of the substance imported exceeds 1 tonne per year. H&M does not import any products that require 
notification. H&M ensures that no products contain SVHCs 
above the 0.1% threshold through our Chemical Restrictions list and extensive testing. H&M also performs audits and 
educates suppliers on handling chemicals during production.
Companies must respond within 45 days to a request from a 
customer inside the EU checking if a product contains any SVHC above the 0.1% threshold. Therefore, we have developed 
guidelines and forms for all H&M stores in Europe. These will 
support our colleagues in handling information requests from customers. We are committed to providing our customers with 
the information they request within the 45 days. RESTRICTING HAZARDOUS 
CHEMICALS
H&M restricts chemical substances that are environmentally 
hazardous or harmful. We administer this policy through the 
H&M Chemical Restrictions list and all of our suppliers commit 
to following it.
Our chemicals requirements are always based on the highest 
legal standard in any of our 33 sales countries and often go 
further than the law demands. They are based on information 
from authorities, non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and scientific reports. We updated the list in 2008 and it now 
contains around 270 restricted substances. This year we have 
implemented stricter restrictions concerning APEOs, phthalates and lead.
In 2008 H&M carried out more than 30,000 chemical tests, of 
which external laboratories did more than 20,000. When 
testing chemicals we follow a clear risk-assessment process based on our long experience with textiles and with our 
suppliers.
We actively educate, support and audit our suppliers to ensure 
that they fully understand and are able to fulfil these requirements, which are regularly updated. For example, we 
conducted workshops with our suppliers in Guangzhou and 
Shanghai, China, to enhance their awareness and understanding of environment, health and safety issues. 
APEOs
APEOs, alkylphenolethoxylates, are a group of substances that can be found in products such as washing detergents. They can 
be harmful to the aquatic environment. There is no legal 
requirement to avoid APEOs in clothing but H&M has restricted this group of chemicals in our products since 1999. 
We have tightened our restrictions further and our suppliers 
now have to make sure that the washing detergents, as well as the other chemicals they use, are APEO-free.
PHTHALATES
Phthalates is a group of substances commonly used in plastic as softeners. Phthalates are common in the environment and some 
of them are harmful. H&M has restricted those phthalates 
known to be harmful since 1996. The scope of our chemical restrictions has become broader and today none of the OUR PRODUCTS
ContinueD H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        41FLOWER ECO-LABEL
H&M sells babywear bearing the EU’s eco-label, the Flower. 
Use of the Flower on these products represents the restrictions 
we place on the use of harmful substances and how we aim to 
reduce water pollution throughout the products’ manufacture.
The Flower-labelled garments have been well received by our 
customers. In 2008 we sold almost 1,400,000 pieces and met 
the related target. We plan to continue with the use of the  
eco-label. Our goal is to sell 1,700,000 Flower-labelled 
garments in 2009. 
www.eco-label.com
MULESING
Mulesing is a surgical procedure performed on merino  sheep, in order to prevent fly-strike. H&M does not agree  
with any mistreatment of animals. We therefore take a stance 
on mulesing and distance ourselves from the practice. 
Since 2005, there has been an agreement between the National 
Retail Federation (NRF), of which H&M is a member, and the 
Australian wool industry (Australian Wool Innovation) to 
replace mulesing with more humane methods by 2010. H&M thinks that this phase-out is proceeding too slowly. We have 
taken the decision to no longer sell clothing made with merino 
wool from mulesed sheep. So in 2008 we concentrated our buying efforts on products that use mulesing-free merino wool. 
We thereby hope to contribute to a quicker phase-out of 
mulesing, in favour of more humane methods of preventing  fly-strike.
CONSUMER COMMUNICATION
Communication is an essential part of any customer-facing business. Our success depends on how well we communicate 
our business concept of fashion and quality at the best price to 
our customers and the societies around us.WORKING TOGETHER
Working together with regulatory authorities and other brands is important for our efforts to ban harmful chemicals from our 
products. By collaborating, we can advance the global 
management of restricted substances. Along with other multinational retailers, H&M is an active member of the 
Apparel and Footwear International Restricted Substance List 
Management Working Group, AFIRM. AFIRM’s mission is to 
reduce the use and impact of harmful substances in the apparel 
and footwear supply chain. This is achieved by organising seminars for suppliers so they can learn how to reduce the use 
of hazardous chemicals. This year a conference was held in 
New Delhi, which was attended by more than 400 visitors from processing houses, factories and dyeing houses. AFIRM has also 
published a toolkit in order to help suppliers in their chemical 
management.
OTHER INITIATIVES
As well as quality, child safety and chemicals, H&M also works on several other product-related initiatives that are a cause for 
concern to our customers. These include environmentally 
friendly materials, the Flower eco-label and mulesing.
SUSTAINABLE MATERIALS
As a fashion company, the look of our garments will always  be a high priority for our customers. Alongside that 
fundamental requirement, more and more customers also want 
clothes that have a reduced impact on the environment. We have a long-term investment in organic cotton. Our goal is to 
increase the amount of organic cotton used in our garments by 
50% each year. In 2008 we used 3,000 tonnes, compared to 1,300 tonnes in 2007. This means that we reached our goal for 
2009 by the end of 2008.
In 2008 we also introduced garments made from organic wool 
and recycled materials, including wool recycled from production off-cuts, as well as polyester made from recycled 
PET bottles. In 2009 garments made from recycled cotton will 
be sold in our stores.
Read more about H&M’s use of organic cotton and other 
sustainable materials in Our Environment on page 31. OUR PRODUCTS
ContinueD H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        42COMMUNICATING ABOUT ACTING 
RESPONSIBLY
We acknowledge that our stakeholders, both outside and within 
H&M, want to know how we behave as a responsible business. 
We cover CSR issues in all our internal communication tools 
such as the intranet, our employee publication Wallpaper as 
well as H&M magazine. This year our film capturing our 
progress in CSR was shown globally and was seen by more than 32,000 sales employees. This was followed up by a survey to 
test employee understanding of CSR issues as they relate to our 
business. A total of 2,349 staff from 24 countries responded. The results were broadly positive and the gaps in knowledge 
identified where additional communication and training may be 
required next year.
The film was also placed on our corporate website and between 
May and September was viewed more than 28,000 times. Further regularly updated information on our CSR work can be 
found on www.hm.com/csr . Launched in early 2009, here you 
can also find a column providing insight from our CSR 
manager, Ingrid Schullström, on our day-to-day challenges and 
progress.
ADVERTISING POLICY
H&M communicates its business concept of ‘fashion and 
quality at the best price’ through the various advertising 
campaigns we produce each year throughout the world.
The campaigns are designed to be clear and simple and aim to 
inform our customers of what is new at H&M and to show who we are and what we stand for. All of the campaigns show the 
season’s designs and the price of the clothes pictured.
H&M’s advertising campaigns are produced centrally in 
Sweden by H&M’s marketing department in cooperation with creative professionals located in the major fashion hubs of the 
world. The advertisements that we produce are largely identical 
in all of our markets, but the media strategy is adapted to local requirements and conditions.
H&M’s marketing has a major impact and it is essential for us 
to convey a positive and healthy image. H&M’s advertising 
images do not aim to communicate one specific ideal, but 
rather a range of lifestyles and attitudes. Each season we strive to feature models with different looks, styles, and cultural RESPONSIBLE ADVERTISING
Our approach in our advertising is to communicate our brand values, create interest in our current collections and drive 
customers to the stores. We want to show the diversity of our 
collections and brand as well as inspire our customers.
We are aware that our advertising and the way we communicate 
can have a big impact in our sales markets. We feel it is 
important to be perceived in a positive, diverse and inspiring 
way without offending anyone.
The most important medium for our advertising is the store. 
Other media include the internet, outdoor media such as 
posters, TV spots, ads in print media, catalogues and events. We follow the International Chamber of Commerce’s basic 
rules for advertisements and we have our own advertising 
policy. The policy has been updated in 2008 and now additionally highlights that H&M distances itself from working 
with notably underweight models.
The policy covers:
• The purpose of our advertising
• How we seek to promote a variety of different looks and 
styles in our advertising
• How we select models and, as of December 2008, how we will not use underweight models. 
Read our advertising policy on page 42.
SUPPORTING OUR CUSTOMERS IN 
PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT
When labelling our garments, we always state the highest 
possible wash temperature. However, the greatest share of a 
product’s energy consumption is in the customer’s washing at 
home. We feel it is important to encourage our customers to lower the temperature they use for washing clothes. Lowering 
the wash temperature to 40°C from 60°C reduces energy use by 
about half. That is why on the customer service pages of our corporate site we recommend lowering the temperature to save energy and also provide other tips on caring for clothes in the 
best way for the environment.OUR PRODUCTS
ContinueD H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        43The collection, designed by the artists and musicians, included 
vests, T-shirts, hooded jackets and a T-shirt dress, all made 
from organic cotton. Twenty-five percent of the sales price went 
to AIDS prevention work carried out by YouthAIDS and Designers Against AIDS. 
The campaign ran for two weeks in store supported by window 
posters and displays. We also produced an advertising 
campaign using many of the musicians who designed the clothes. The advertisements were shown outdoors, on TV  
and online. 
WHY THIS ISSUE?
The issue is in urgent need of attention – it affects everyone.  
It is an opportunity for us to make a difference. 
We come into contact with millions of young people every week 
through our 1,700 stores in 33 countries. We know that young 
people are a major risk group with about half of all new infections among people in the 15-24 age range. They are also 
our target group and one we believe we can influence.
Read more about how the donations raised were used in our 
Community Investment section on page 53.backgrounds to advertise our concepts for women, men, teenagers and children.
Models are chosen in collaboration between internationally 
recognised agencies and our representatives. The models 
depicted in our advertising must be healthy and wholesome, 
and they must maintain a lifestyle consistent with the high prestige and good reputation of H&M. The company 
deliberately distances itself from drug and alcohol abuse, and 
will not use models that are notably underweight.
H&M has special guidelines for the advertising of our children’s 
concepts. The target audience is parents, not children, and we 
place advertisements in media that is not aimed directly at 
children. Children who take part in our campaigns must take part of their own free will. If children are cast in a photo shoot, there is 
always an H&M representative present to ensure the safety of the 
children and to maintain a professional environment.
CUSTOMERS’ VIEWS
We promote our products through various campaigns, which are produced in Sweden. Our marketing is influential and 
therefore it is essential for us to convey a positive and healthy 
image to our customers. This is underlined by our advertising policy whereby we actively engage with our customers. In order 
to remain open and honest we carry out surveys in all of our 
markets, and we are happy to find that the vast majority of our customers appreciate our marketing.
FASHION AGAINST AIDS 
CAMPAIGN
In January 2008 we launched our Fashion Against AIDS 
campaign together with Designers Against AIDS and various 
international celebrities. This was our first-ever cause-related 
marketing campaign on this scale. It ran in all our major markets and on our website as well.
The idea of the campaign was to offer our customers stylish, 
celebrity-designed clothes while at the same time raising money 
and increasing awareness of HIV/AIDS. Musicians, artists and fashion designers involved in the campaign include Rihanna, 
Katharine Hamnett, Rufus Wainwright and Ziggy Marley.OUR PRODUCTS
ContinueD
 H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        44
OUR COLLEAGUES
H&M’s strong corporate culture, the H&M spirit, has developed for over 60 years, 
since the days of its founder, Erling Persson. The H&M spirit is based on a 
number of values that describe in simple terms how we want to work, including, among other things, the belief in people and teamwork. 
Our business operates on the principle of respect for all individuals and this should be applied to 
everything we do. We provide our colleagues with the opportunity to grow and develop within 
H&M, providing training wherever possible. We want our employees to feel that H&M is a place 
where their personality is valued and they can expand their horizons. 
Our newly developed sustainability strategy, which aims to share responsibility for sustainability 
among all H&M departments rather than within a single CSR department, fits well with our 
employee principles. Once the new strategy is rolled out in 2009 it will influence the work lives of 
an increasing number of our people and it is our aim that all of our employees will work towards the strategy of shared responsibility.
OUR APPROACH
Our colleagues are a major factor in our success, profitability and growth. By 30 November 2008 we employed 72,497 people (53,430 full time equivalent). 
PEOPLE MAKE OUR BUSINESS
Being a company that strives to be responsible and at the forefront of sustainability enables us to attract and retain engaged employees who are able to support the growth of H&M. We have set 
ourselves a business target to increase our number of stores by 10-15% per year with continued 
high profitability. To meet this goal it is essential our colleagues develop and grow with the company and that we attract enough good quality talent to support our growth. In 2008 we 
increased our employee headcount by 6,401 full time equivalent employees and this growth in our 
workforce needs to be sustained. We are targeting a growth of 6,000-7,000 employees in 2009. 
CAREER PATHWAYS
We do not have standardised career plans, but prefer to respond to individual needs and interests so that we are able to find a good fit between the individual and the position. Store experience 
can offer our employees a way into the other business units of the company. When we do recruit 
from outside H&M, it is common that employees receive in-store training.  H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        45emPloyees Per region (%)
europe (excepT sweden): 76%norTH AMerIcA: 12%
sweden: 9%producTIon oFFIces: 2%AsIA: 1%
dATA A vAIlAble For THe ToTAl nuMber oF 70,303 eMployees  
(= 97% oF ToTAl workForce by 30 noveMber 2008). 
noT IncludInG FrAncHIse operATIons.
ratio of salary between women anD men
sTore MAnAGers: 0.938vIsuAl MercHAndIser: 0.938Floor MAnAGers: 0.968sAles AssIsTAnTs: 0.997wAreHouse eMployees: 0.900counTry oFFIce eMployees: 0.769*oTHers: 0.958
dATA A vAIlAble For THe ToTAl nuMber oF 66,625 eMployees (= 92% oF ToTAl A verAGe workForce by 30 
noveMber 2008). no dATA A vAIlAble For JAp An (305), p ArT TIMe eMployees In cHInA (44) And producTIon 
oFFIces. noT IncludInG FrAncHIse operATIons. dATA Is noT GATHered For H&M HeAd oFFIce And buyInG oFFIce due To non-coMp ArAble eMployMenT cATeGorIes. THe rATIo Is cAlculATed As A weIGHTed rATIo due 
To dIFFerenT currency rATes And p AyMenT InTerv Als.
* THIs cATeGory Includes A lArGe nuMber oF dIFFerenT TAsks, wHIcH Are HArd To coMp Are, sucH As our 
sAles counTry MAnAGer And conTrollers, MercHAndIsers, Adver TIsInG, pr, AccounTInG, AdMInIsTrATIon 
eTc. THIs esTIMATIon Is suppor Ted by THe FAcT THAT we see THe bIGGesT dIFFerences In our lArGesT 
MArkeTs wITH A HuGe v ArIeTy oF dIFFerenT TAsks In our counTry oFFIces. 
THIs MIGHT be A reAson For An unequAl FIGure In THIs p ArTIculAr cATeGory. However, we wIll look InTo 
THIs durInG 2009 To verIFy.
EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY
As a global fashion retailer, H&M makes high fashion 
collections accessible to everyone. Similarly, we aim to make 
working at H&M equally as accessible.
As part of our work in 2008 in establishing a set of common 
globally applicable policies, we developed a global discrimination and equality policy. We are committed to 
providing equal opportunities to all our employees and 
potential employees wherever we operate all over the world.
Our priority is to seek highly motivated, hardworking, outgoing 
team players who look for personal growth and possess an 
entrepreneurial spirit. We feel that a diverse team of employees 
who possess these attributes is essential to our success. 
Our new policy, based on the ILO convention (C111 
Discrimination), is set up to ensure we provide a level playing 
field for all our employees.GLOBAL POLICIES, LOCAL 
IMPLEMENTATION
Our HR teams manage most employee issues at a local level in 
accordance with local employment regulations and standards. In 
2008 we began developing global employee policies to create 
minimum standards that apply wherever we work. The aim is not to replace the local approach but to provide a baseline 
standard that exists even if a country of operation does not have 
specific legislated employment standards. In 2008 we developed 
a global discrimination and equality policy and a global diversity 
policy. These policies will be launched at H&M in 2009.
We are working on a globally applicable grievance procedure 
for employees during 2009 and will investigate options for 
collecting data because grievance issues, as with other employee 
issues, are dealt with locally and not reported centrally.
Key statistics on our workforce are detailed below:
full time anD Part time emPloyees 2008
pArT TIMe eMployees 52.7%
Full TIMe eMployees 47.3%
emPloyee ContraCt tyPe 2008
perMAnenT conTrAcTs 82.1%TeMporAry conTrAcTs 17.9%
dATA A vAIlAble For THe ToTAl nuMber oF 69,265 eMployees  
(= 96% oF ToTAl workForce by 30 noveMber 2008). no dATA A vAIlAble For producTIon oFFIces. 
noT IncludInG FrAncHIse operATIons.
emPloyee breakDown by region anD job Category
emPloyees Per job Category (%)
sAles AssIsTAnT 69%
wAreHouse eMployee 7%
Floor MAnAGer 6%
vIsuAl MercHAndIser 6%
sTore MAnAGer 3%
counTry oFFIce eMployees 3%
producTIon oFFIces 2%
buyInG oFFIce 2%
HeAd oFFIce 1% 
oTHer 1%OUR COLLEAGUES
ContinueD
 H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        46TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT
H&M constantly works on developing the skills of our 
colleagues. We have a Head of Training and Staff Development 
responsible for a training team that delivers the majority of 
global trainings and initiatives across the business.
In some cases managers in stores carry out training and some 
specialist training is done by external organisations. Yearly 
performance reviews for all employees are a common practice. 
They help our employees develop themselves, which in turn helps the Company to develop.
INDUCTION TRAINING
An employee’s training experience starts when joining H&M and undertaking our mandatory induction training. This 
training consists of different subjects, such as an introduction 
to H&M, garment handling and care, security, customer service, textiles and CSR. For induction training, we have 
identified three key ways of delivering training successfully: 
offsite in a classroom environment, in small groups in-store, and one-to-one in-store. There is no set pattern and the format 
of the training is dependent on the individual circumstances of 
the store or employees being trained.
E-TRAINING
In the UK, Spain and Sweden an e-training pilot started in 2008 to assess the success of this delivery method for parts of 
our induction training. The pilot is targeted at store staff with 
access to computers and more than 2,000 employees piloted the training last year. The training provides the flexibility for 
employees to complete four hours’ training over a two-week 
period. One benefit of the system is that our training managers can assess user data to see how long different training tasks can 
take. This allows us to improve the usability of the system over 
time. The pilot will continue in 2009.OUR DISCRIMINATION AND 
EQUALITY POLICY STATES:
At H&M all employees are of equal value. Nobody shall be 
discriminated at recruitment, selection, employment, 
compensation, transfers, promotion, growth, development or 
training. For the purpose of this policy the term discrimination includes any distinction, exclusion or preference made on the 
basis of race, colour, sex, religion, political opinion, national 
extraction, social origin, sexual orientation or age.
All employees and customers of H&M are entitled to be treated 
with respect; therefore, discriminatory, biased, offensive or 
abusive treatment, harassment or retaliation by managers or employees is never tolerated.
Further basis for employment protection may be added due to 
national or local legislation. 
[December 2008]
DIVERSITY POLICY
In addition to our global discrimination and equality policy we have also developed a global diversity policy.
All employees at H&M contribute to the Company’s success. The 
diversity of the workforce in terms of, for example, age, gender 
and ethnicity is an asset to the company. We therefore strive for diversity at all job levels and at all H&M’s work places. 
[December 2008]
At H&M the majority of our colleagues are women and they are 
well represented in management positions. The percentages of women holding positions of responsibility are:
share of female emPloyees Per emPloyment Category
boArd oF dIrecTors: 35%Group MAnAGeMenT level: 33%sAles counTry MAnAGers: 44%producTIon oFFIce MAnAGers: 45%buyInG dIvIsIon HeAds: 57%buyInG secTIon HeAds: 83%AreA MAnAGers: 67%sTore MAnAGers: 77%ToTAl sHAre oF FeMAle eMployees In MAnAGeMenT posITIons: 76%ToTAl sHAre oF FeMAle eMployees AMonG ToTAl workForce: 79%
not inCluDing franChise oPerations.
OUR COLLEAGUES
ContinueD H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        47GOALS FOR 2009
During 2009 we will continue to focus on ensuring that every 
new employee receives our induction training. At the same time 
we are working on improving the effectiveness of our trainings. 
We strive to make relevant training tools more accessible for the right target groups and will focus on managers, including 
floor and store managers.
To support this we are currently looking into standardising all 
globally mandatory training so that all employees, regardless of 
location, receive the same information. This process started in 
2008 and will be completed in 2009.
LEARNING BY DOING
H&M encourages on-the-job learning and job rotation presents a good opportunity for our colleagues to develop. In-store job 
rotation may mean that a person’s duties vary from customer 
service, the cash desk and fitting rooms, to display and follow-up of advertising and campaigns. 
When H&M opens new stores in existing sales countries or in 
new markets, job rotation is a common practice. This can take 
the form of colleagues from established H&M countries supporting a new store for the period before opening. Also, 
individuals or groups of colleagues from new countries or 
stores receive training in an established market. In addition to providing support, knowledge transfer from established H&M 
stores to newly opening ones is an important element.
CSR TRAINING
CSR forms a significant part of training at H&M. It is included 
in all employees’ induction training, including store staff. 
Whenever needed we also provide information on current CSR 
topics to our staff so that they are up-to-date and able to respond to customer enquiries. ONGOING TRAINING AND 
DEVELOPMENT
Training and development continues throughout an H&M 
employee’s career and is supported by an annual performance 
review that identifies possibilities for further progression and 
associated training and development needs. 
Our training structure is based around mandatory and non-
mandatory training that is relevant to all H&M operations 
globally. Also, there are several different national and local training courses that aim to meet employees, and country-
specific needs. 
In addition to the global induction training modules that every 
employee needs to complete, there are additional induction training modules for certain tasks, such as for store managers, 
floor managers and visual merchandisers. These trainings cover 
certain knowledge, such as what it means to be good retailers, staff development, garment presentation, controlling and 
others. Allied to these there are 11 non-mandatory global 
training modules, four of which are directed at store managers. Below these global training modules H&M offers around 50 
different training courses on national level that are tailored to 
each country’s specific needs. 
Staff at our production offices have different training needs and 
our courses are structured to suit them. In 2008, leadership 
training was provided for managers within our buying offices 
by an external consultant. A few sales managers were also involved to identify whether this type of training would also be 
useful for them. This will also continue in 2009.
TRAINING DELIVERED IN 2008
The average number of training days per employee in 2008 was 
approximately ten days for new sales staff, one day for existing 
sales staff and five days for existing management positions.
OUR COLLEAGUES
ContinueD H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        48WORKING WITH EMPLOYEE 
REPRESENTATIVES
H&M’s success and profitability in a competitive industry is 
dependent on flexibility. If a potential redundancy situation 
arises, we address this situation in a responsible manner and 
aim to communicate with unions as early as possible in the process. We have a global framework agreement with Union 
Network International (UNI) and have also carried out work 
with the European Works Council (EWC). 
Employees are represented at Board level, with two of the  
13 Board members being employee representatives and two 
employee representative deputies. Besides this there are different forms of representation in various countries, 
depending on local labour laws.
H&M AND UNION NETWORK 
INTERNATIONAL (UNI)
Our Global Framework Agreement with UNI declares that  
both parties regard the International Labour Organization’s 
Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work to 
be the cornerstone for our cooperation. Our main contact point for this agreement is the Swedish Commercial Workers union, 
Handels, which is a member of UNI. 
H&M AND THE EUROPEAN WORKS 
COUNCIL (EWC)
H&M first signed an agreement with the EWC in 1997 and this 
was amended in 2007. H&M and UNI-Europa are signing 
parties to the agreement. Sweden, Germany, Norway, Finland, 
Denmark, Belgium, Austria and the Netherlands all have EWC representatives. Meetings are held with all representatives on 
an annual basis and with EWC’s select committee twice a year. EMPLOYEE SURVEY
In terms of responding to customer queries, the importance of 
CSR training for all employees was underlined by our annual 
survey to assess employees’ CSR knowledge. The 2008 survey, 
which was answered by 2,349 employees across 24 countries, showed that almost half our staff have received questions from 
customers on how our garments are produced and three out of 
ten have received questions about our environmental work. 
The survey also showed that staff knowledge about our CSR 
programme had improved since the 2007 survey. For example, 
90% (up from 73%) of staff correctly identified our Code of Conduct as requirements we set for production to safeguard 
those who manufacture our products and the environment.
In 2008, over 32,000 employees viewed our CSR film, which 
gives an insight into our CSR work in the supply chain. The film has also been viewed 28,683 times on our website at  
www.hm.com. 
EMPLOYEE COMMUNICATION
In addition to formal training, we also regularly use employee communication channels such as the H&M intranet and our 
employee newsletter, Wallpaper, to provide information to our 
people on our approach to CSR issues. In 2008 we published  a special CSR edition of Wallpaper, which focused solely on 
CSR in H&M. 
Find out about our auditor training in our supply chain section 
on page 19.
LABOUR RELATIONS AND 
DIALOGUE
H&M’s employees have the right to freedom of association  
and collective bargaining. Across our operations approximately 
67.5% of H&M employees are covered by collective  
bargaining agreements. 
We strive for good relations with all our employees and the 
employee associations and trade unions that represent them. Since 2006, our CSR Manager, Ingrid Schullström, has also 
been head of our employee relations department in addition to 
her responsibility as CSR Manager. In 2008 the department was extended and now consists of two full time employees as 
well as the managing position. 
OUR COLLEAGUES
ContinueD H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        49Breaches of the code are investigated and if a supplier has 
breached the code, then the business relationship may be 
terminated. In the case of employees, employment may also  
be terminated. 
BREACHES OF THE CODE
On a global level in 2008 ten employee breaches of the Code of 
Ethics were identified that led to employee termination. We also 
terminated two supplier relationships as a result of corrupt 
practices that were in breach of the supplier Code of Ethics.
In 2009 we will implement a global system, which will make it 
easier for us to monitor all cases reported at a local level and 
their outcomes.
AWARENESS AND TRAINING
Suppliers and employees are all made aware of the code and 
given information to assist their understanding. All suppliers 
receive information on the code and sign the Code of Ethics 
compliance agreement before they can be accepted as suppliers to H&M. 
All employees working in our production organisations, sales 
organisations and Head Office (those having a regular contact 
with external business partners) are informed of the Company’s approach during the recruitment process. Before joining the 
Company they receive a short presentation on the code and sign 
a confirmation that they understand its contents. Additional workshops are available and can be conducted wherever useful.
Usually these workshops are held within the first six months 
after joining H&M. 
The aim of the training is to build our employees’ confidence in 
the code and to encourage them to be open about it with our suppliers and business partners. Feeling comfortable about the 
code means employees will find it easier to raise the subject of 
the code with them and discuss the importance of ethical business practices to H&M. 
By 2008, around 98% of our employees from our production 
offices had received Code of Ethics training. During 2008  
we conducted training for 82% of the employees in our Head Office, buying office and sales country offices. We focused  
on all those employees in regular contact with external  
business partners. CODE OF ETHICS
An important part of our commitment to be a responsible business is the insistence on operating ethically at all times. 
H&M does not accept any form of bribery and we take 
exception to all types of corruption. H&M’s company-wide  anti-corruption policy, the Code of Ethics, has been in existence 
since 2003 and aims to tackle these issues.
The code substantiates our belief that business relations  
should be strictly professional, and that it is not allowed for business partners to provide any kind of gifts or other 
advantages to H&M employees. In the same way, H&M 
employees must not require or accept any personal advantages from any business partner. The H&M Code of Ethics applies to 
all business partners and all H&M employees that come into 
contact with business partners.
Due to the nature of our business and our relationships with 
suppliers we have had two versions of the code since 2005,  
one for suppliers and one for employees. They include a ban  
on offering, giving, soliciting and accepting advantages and  a section on confidential information. The employee version 
also includes provisions regarding company records and 
accounts, entertainment, loans and gambling as well as conflicts of interest.
REVISED CODE LAUNCHED
In January 2008 we launched the third version of our Code  of Ethics. This version was launched to further strengthen our 
belief that business relations should be strictly professional. 
The revisions included clarification of elements of the code to help avoid any misinterpretation of borderline cases.
In addition, tolerances were sharpened where necessary  
and this included a policy to no longer accept any kind of 
benefit. This zero-tolerance policy even extends to small  gifts of low value. 
WHISTLEBLOWING
There is a confidential whistleblowing procedure to report potential breaches of the code. A dedicated email address exists 
for suppliers to report concerns about possible breaches of the 
code. From 2009 we will be sharing this email address with all parts of our organisation. To maximise confidentiality, only the 
Global Security Manager personally can review these reports. OUR COLLEAGUES
ContinueD H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        50INTERNAL RESPONSIBILITY
Our Code of Ethics is managed by different departments in 
different parts of the Company. In production and buying 
offices human resources are responsible, or the office manager 
if there is no specific human resources staff member. In the event of possible code breaches the case is referred to the 
security manager.
In our sales organisation local security departments are 
responsible for managing the code and investigating Code  
of Ethics issues. 
IMPLEMENTING THE CODE MORE 
WIDELY IN 2008
Moving on from our focus of implementing the Code of  
Ethics in our production markets in 2007, we focused on 
implementation within all levels of the company in 2008.  
In addition to our sales countries this included central 
departments, such as IT, marketing, interior, store planning 
and construction. A major focus was also on implementing  
and communicating the updated version globally among  
all employees.
POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS  
AND LOBBYING
H&M does not provide direct financial contributions to 
individual politicians or political parties. H&M does, 
however, reserve the right by way of lobbying to attempt to 
influence political decisions that may have an impact on the Company’s business.OUR COLLEAGUES
ContinueD H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        51
OUR COMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTS
H&M  has been involved in various philanthropic activities for many years on  
both a global and a local level. To us it is important to give back to the 
communities around us and contribute to positive and sustainable change, which is why we  call this area community investments. 
H&M’s community investments aim to focus on issues that are important to our communities  
and that have a connection to H&M, such as water, employment and education of women and 
youth, and innovation of sustainable materials. That way we can work with issues where we 
genuinely have an opportunity to make a difference.
In 2008, our community investments amounted to almost SEK 32 million (a bout $3.6 million).*
In this section you will find information about:• Our approach to community investments
• Community partners
• Community projects
• Community support.
OUR APPROACH TO COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS
In 2008 H&M reviewed its community investments work and developed a new policy for its work 
in this area. The policy builds on our vision that all our community investments should be 
focused, efficient and sustainable and have a clear connection to our business, our stakeholders 
and society’s needs. 
Based on this vision we identified three areas where we will focus our community investments: 
employment and education among women and youth, water, and innovation of sustainable 
materials. 
Our work in this area builds on three complementary pillars: • Community partners on page 52 – our long-standing partnerships with UNICEF and WaterAid
• Community projects on page 52 – the projects that we run in our communities together with 
our community partners and by ourselves
• Community support on page 54 – the direct contributions that we make to communities and  people in need.
Through those pillars, we aim to work holistically and meet the diverse needs of the communities around us.  H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        52COMMUNITY PROJECTS
Supporting projects in the communities where we work is a 
cornerstone for our community investments. It is through our 
projects that we can work practically to address important 
issues and contribute to positive and sustainable change. 
Unicef in Cambodia
Since 2004 H&M has been supporting UNICEF’s HIV/AIDS Prevention and Care programme in Cambodia, one of the 
countries where H&M’s clothes are produced. The programme 
aims to reduce the transmission of HIV among young people and high-risk groups as well as reducing the impact of the 
epidemic on children and their families. The project includes 
activities such as health promotion sessions, a national HIV hotline and HIV testing services. 
Some of the project activities are especially targeted at young 
women in the garment industry, which is one of the high-risk 
groups identified in the programme. H&M has used its access to the factories to help UNICEF reach young female garment 
workers. In this way H&M can also raise awareness among our 
suppliers that they have a role to play in ensuring the health of their workers.
Unicef in India
H&M makes a clear stand against all use of child labour and  is – among other things – working closely with UNICEF to 
address this issue. For some time, H&M’s cooperation with 
UNICEF has focused on the situation of children in the cotton-producing areas of India. In 2008, UNICEF completed a study 
on the social consequences of children in the cotton-growing 
industry in Tamil Nadu, India. H&M and UNICEF are currently developing a project based on the findings from the study, 
which will be initiated in 2009. 
Unicef in Uzbekistan
In June 2008 H&M began a project with UNICEF in 
Uzbekistan to improve the situation of children there and help 
prevent child labour in the cotton industry. The project aims to 
raise public awareness of the effects of child labour and to develop national child protection strategies. In the first phase, 
which will run until summer 2009, H&M has contributed 
$150,000 to this project. Our community projects and cause-related marketing 
campaigns are mainly initiated and co-ordinated on a global 
level. However, several sales countries also engage in local initiatives such as collaborations with national UNICEF 
committees. Monetary donations are often directed to UNICEF 
whereas clothes donations usually go to selected local charity organisations. 
The following pages provide an overview of our community 
investments in 2008.
COMMUNITY PARTNERS
Some of the challenges we face in the communities where we 
work are complex and not always something we can tackle on 
our own. This is why we have chosen to partner with selected 
organisations that can help us to address these issues and achieve results that we alone cannot. 
Unicef
In 2004 H&M entered into a partnership with UNICEF, the United Nations Children’s Fund (www.unicef.or g). UNICEF is 
the world’s largest provider of vaccines for developing countries, it supports child health and nutrition, good water and sanitation, quality basic education for all boys and girls, 
and the protection of children from violence, exploitation and 
AIDS. Our partnership with UNICEF has been a successful example of how we can cooperate with others to achieve 
positive results. Together with UNICEF, H&M currently runs 
an HIV/AIDS prevention project in Cambodia as well as projects in Uzbekistan and India that aim to strengthen  
children’s situations in cotton-producing areas. In 2008 
UNICEF received a total of around $780,000 from H&M.
Wateraid
WaterAid (www.wateraid.or g) is a British charity organisation 
that works to give the world’s poorest people access to safe 
water, sanitation and hygiene education. H&M started to 
collaborate with WaterAid in 2002. Each year H&M designs an exclusive bikini range with a 10% contribution to WaterAid for 
each item sold. Since the start of the partnership, H&M has 
raised more than £1 million (about $1.4 million) for WaterAid’s water and sanitation projects, primarily in Bangladesh, where 
some of H&M’s clothing is produced. In this way, H&M’s 
support can have a direct impact on improving the lives of many people in the communities there.
OUR COMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTS
ContinueD H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        53Training lasts four months and is conducted by experienced 
instructors. In addition to the technical training, the students 
are also taught about life skills and workers’ rights through 
activities such as role plays and lectures. At the end of the  four-month period students are guaranteed a job at selected 
H&M suppliers.
Apart from funding, H&M also supports the training centre  
by providing internal training for the instructors in order to ensure the trainees gain the required technical skills. In 2008 
the instructors underwent training by the technical team at 
H&M’s production office in Dhaka.
Female retail training programme,  
Saudi Arabia
In 2008 we opened our first store in Saudi Arabia together  
with our franchise partner Alshaya. We also collaborated to set 
up a retail training programme for women in Saudi Arabia.  
The programme will start in 2009 and aims to provide women with the necessary knowledge and experience to work in a retail 
store. Students who successfully complete the course will be 
offered a job, either at H&M or at another of Alshaya’s retail stores in Saudi Arabia. By establishing this programme we 
want to promote female employment in Saudi Arabia and 
increase the opportunities for women to work in the Saudi retail sector. 
LOCAL PROJECTS
At H&M, we want to build a strong relationship with our customers and the communities where we do business. H&M’s 
stores and sales staff play an important role in these initiatives. 
Therefore, we also engage in community investments activities on a local level. Below are examples of some of the activities 
carried out during 2008. All in all, these local projects and 
activities have a value of around 4 million SEK (about $450,000).
UNICEF 
In addition to our global partnership with UNICEF, H&M also collaborates with UNICEF at a local level. As a result, several 
sales countries have collaborated with national UNICEF 
committees and engaged in national campaigns to support UNICEF’s work. A few examples follow. Wateraid projects
In 2008 we donated £216,202 (about $300,000) to WaterAid. H&M has now donated more than £1 million (about $1.4 
million) since the start of the partnership in 2002. H&M’s 
donations mainly go to support water, sanitation and hygiene projects in Bangladesh, where some of our suppliers are based. 
In addition, part of the donations also go to water and 
sanitation-related projects in Madagascar and Tanzania. 
Fashion Against AIDS projects
H&M and Designers Against AIDS joined forces in the battle against AIDS and launched a collection together with well-
known designers, musicians and artists. The aim was to 
increase awareness about HIV/AIDS among youth and raise funds for HIV/AIDS projects. The collection generated a 
donation of SEK 15 million (approximately $1.8 million),  
which was primarily directed towards YouthAIDS HIV/AIDS prevention projects in Haiti and Russia. 
See more on the Fashion Against AIDS campaign in the 
Products section on page 43.
H&M training centre, Dhaka
Since 1999 H&M has run a training centre in Bangladesh 
where youths from 17 years of age, living in poverty, are 
educated to become sewing and knitting machine operators. 
Today, the training centre has run courses for more than 950 students and is known among H&M`s suppliers and others in 
the garment sector in Bangladesh for educating skilled, well-
trained sewing and knitting machine operators, for which there is a huge demand in Bangladesh.
Despite the demand, there is a noticeable lack of formalised 
training and education in this area. The H&M training centre  
is the only one of its kind in Bangladesh. We aim to encourage similar initiatives by openly sharing the concept and our 
experiences with others such as NGOs and other organisations 
and of course our suppliers. In 2008 we also produced a brochure, informing our suppliers about the training centre 
and its efforts.OUR COMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTS
ContinueD H&M SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2008        54uniteD kingDom 
In 2008, in the UK, H&M raised £3,000 ($4,300) through  
the sale of pin badges in stores and the placement of donation 
boxes. In addition to raising money, the activities also helped  to increase awareness of breast cancer among customers  
and employees.
COMMUNITY SUPPORT
Another important part of our community investments is to 
support our communities in times of crisis. In the event of major 
catastrophes, H&M decides on a case-by-case basis about 
making direct contributions to emergency relief efforts and humanitarian aid. In addition, H&M regularly donates clothes to 
victims of war and natural disasters, and to other people in need. 
Disaster relief
After the fatal earthquake in the Sichuan region in China in 
spring 2008, H&M decided to contribute to the support of the 
victims with a $100,000 donation to our partner UNICEF. Our 
local organisation in Hong Kong added another 120,000 SEK (approximately $13,700), which was also donated to UNICEF’s 
earthquake relief and recovery efforts. 
Donations of garments
Clothes that do not comply with H&M’s quality requirements 
are not passed on to our stores. Instead, we donate the clothes 
to aid organisations in the countries where we operate. 
However, we never give away clothes that do not meet our safety requirements and chemicals restrictions. During 2008, 
H&M donated around 400,000 garments to local aid 
organisations. Below are some examples of sales countries where we have made clothes donations.
Sweden – helping hands
H&M has an agreement with Helping Hands, an independent voluntary aid organisation. Helping Hands collects returned 
garments from some of our Swedish stores and leftover samples 
from our Head Office and sends them to people in need in other countries. Around 66,000 garments were donated during 2008.Norway
In 2008 we began a collaboration with UNICEF in Norway on  a range of marketing activities to raise money for the project 
‘Sammen for barnebøker’. The project was aimed at promoting 
children’s interest in reading in Madagascar and to enlighten children about their cultural heritage and the island’s history. 
The activities included the sale of a specially designed scarf, 
where 25 NOK (about $3.60) from every scarf sold was donated 
directly to the project. During the Christmas period, our 
customers were also given the opportunity to donate money  at the tills by ‘rounding up’ the sum of their purchases or 
donating an amount regardless of making any purchases.  
In addition, we sold a virtual book, which was given as a Christmas gift to all staff in Norway, with all production costs 
met by H&M. 
The total sum raised by our joint activities in 2008 was  
513,000 NOK (approximately $75,000).
Sweden 
H&M Sweden has worked with UNICEF since 2004,  supporting its important work for the world’s children. In 
connection with UNICEF’s spring campaign and their  
Comedy Gala 2008, H&M Sweden sold a specially designed scarf, where 25% of the profit was donated directly to UNICEF. 
In November, H&M and UNICEF initiated the Round Up 
campaign, which gave the customers the possibility to donate money by ‘rounding up’ the sum of their purchases. All in all, 
the activities generated a donation to UNICEF of more than 
370,000 SEK (about $40,000).
Breast Cancer awareness
Breast cancer is an important topic in many of the countries where we operate. Therefore, several sales countries have 
carried out activities in cooperation with national organisations 
in order to raise breast cancer awareness among H&M staff  and customers. 
uniteD states
In the US, H&M worked with the American Cancer Society for 
their Making Strides Against Breast Cancer walk and 
fundraising campaign. The campaign aimed to raise funds for 
breast cancer research and to promote education and awareness 
programmes. Our staff, together with H&M US, donated a total of $188,000 to the campaign. OUR COMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTS
ContinueD H&M SuS tainability REPOR t 2008        55Canada – windfall clothing services
Windfall Clothing Services assists homeless and emergency 
shelters to meet their clients’ needs for new clothing. Windfall 
receives donations of new clothing and other basic need items 
from manufacturers, retailers and distributors and distributes them through partnerships with over 90 social service agencies 
in the Toronto area. In 2008 H&M Canada donated more than 
10,000 pieces to Windfall. 
Jubileumsstiftelsen – H&M’s foundation
In 2007, the year H&M turned 60 years old, we decided to  set up a foundation with a donation of SEK 60 million 
(approximately $6.9 million). The foundation will support 
projects aimed at improving the quality of life for people in  the countries where we operate. This year the foundation has 
chosen to support a project by Hand in Hand.
Hand in hand
Hand in Hand is a public charitable trust active globally. 
H&M’s foundation chose to support a project in the southern 
Indian state of Tamil Nadu, which has a population of 62 
million. Hand in Hand shares our vision to eradicate child labour and reduce poverty with a focus on education, 
employment, income generation and empowerment. In order to 
achieve this, it is implementing an Integrated Community Development Programme which includes activities such as 
establishing citizen centres, self-help groups and medical 
camps, and facilitating access to credit. In 2008, H&M decided to support the Integrated Community Development Programme 
in ten villages through a donation of $250,000. Progress on this 
development programme will be reported on in 2009.  www.handinhand.nu
*currency conversion: approximate figures as per 19 february 2009OuR COMMunity 
inVES tMEntS
continueDH&M Sustainability Report 2008 56audits  
basic figures 
total audits FaP (Full audits) FuP (Follow-u P audits)
Production Offices which carried out related audits (see clarification of 
related production countries per region in 2008 below)no. unannounced no. unannounced no. unannounced
Bangladesh 347 76% 132 61% 215 85%
India 206 63% 78 23% 128 87%
Pakistan 62 48% 19 32% 43 56%
total sout H asia 615 68% 229 45% 386 82%
China 954 71% 250 40% 704 81%
Indonesia 87 80% 16 13% 71 96%
Cambodia 58 79% 23 74% 35 83%
South Korea 46 26% 14 14% 32 31%
total F aR east 1145 70% 303 40% 842 81%
Latvia 24 13% 9 33% 15 0%
Romania 65 46% 21 5% 44 66%
Turkey 555 52% 200 34% 355 62%
Italy 14 0% 11 0% 3 0%
Bulgaria 87 71% 36 58% 51 80%
Sweden 4 25% 3 0% 1 100%
total e Mea 749 51% 280 33% 469 62%
total 2509 64% 812 39% 1697 76%audits  
basic figures 
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 57count Ries P eR Region wit H PR oduction F oR H&M in 2008:
soutH asia: Bangladesh, India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka
FaR east: Cambodia, China, Indonesia, South Korea, Thailand, Vietnam
eMea (euRoPe, Middle e ast, aFR ica): Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Egypt, Italy, France, Greece, Latvia, Lithuania, Mauritius, Morocco, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Spain, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine
count Ries w HeRe only li Mited audits we Re conducted due to low R isks o F non-co MPliance:
Czech Republic, France, Greece, Italy, Portugal, Spain
audits ove R 5 yea Rs
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
Total number of audits 2526 2012 1493 2670 2715
Number of FAP audits* 812 948 581 0 0
Number of FUP audits* 1697 1035 442 0 0
Other audits 0 0 451 2670 2715
Audits conducted by FLA 17 24 (+5 verification 
audits)19 0 0
Share of audits conducted on potential new production units 21% 25% 31% 25% 22%
*Audit system consisting of FAP and FUP audits started to be implemented in 2006. Since 2007 all audits are conducted according to this system.Ten mos T common
non-compliance
issues 2008
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 58N0. of fi NdiNgs 2008 NoN-complia Nce level 2008 (2007)
Is there any system for dialogue between workers and management in place in the factory? 539 80% (78%)
Is there a grievance system in place in the factory? 520 74% (59%)
1. Are monthly overtime hours within the legal limit? 506 73% (65%)
6. Is the hazardous waste disposed of in a legal manner? 371 59% (66%)
2. Have the workers regularly handling chemicals been trained in safe chemical handling? 363 72% (69%)
3. Does the factory have complete safety data sheets for all chemical products? 349 66% (72%)
7. Is overtime compensated according to the law? 345 49% (38%)
5. Are the chemical containers properly labelled? 326 61% (56%)
4. Is the information in the safety data sheets implemented? 321 64% (66%)
8. Do all workers have an employment contract? 312 44% (36%)
9. Does the factory pay social security? 270 42% (21%)
10. Are the workers aware of and trained in fire fighting and evacuation? 251 35% (33%)
Aiming to create more comparability, non-compliance levels in percentages are provided comparing 2008 and 2007 audit findings. Please note that figures however do not refer to comparable production units. 
To create the greatest possible accuracy and transparency non-compliance levels in percentages are weighted according to the frequency each question was raised during our FAP audits. Questions are only raised where applicable. The data includes 
findings from audits on new and potentially new production units (including 138 potential new production units which were rejected after an initial audit). The ranking is however based on the total number of detected non-compliances.
Compared to last year, several indicators show an increase in the non-compliance level, especially in the area of workers’ rights requirements. This has been an expected result due to improved detection methods, an increase in unannounced FAP 
audits and greater transparency, although we cannot rule out that there have also been more non-compliances in fact.  Ten mos T common
non-compliance
issues 2008
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 59Findings concerning grievance and dialogue systems are the most common ones, but not ranked here, since they are not requirements of our Code of Conduct. However, we believe good communication and functioning grievance systems are important 
for improving compliance and therefore they are covered by our audits. 
Since 2008 we have seven of our auditors now specialised on EHS (environment, health and saftey). They are also responsible for issues such as chemical handling. We note that this contributed to a high level of detection, while we see more 
compliance in some areas such as the disposal of hazardous waste.
We see that overtime remains an ongoing challenge. Greater focus on the issue, more transparency from our suppliers, more unannounced audits and better detection methods seem to bring us closer to the true picture. This has also led to the 
identification of a number of falsified documents especially in China during 2008.NoN-complia Nce 
FInd Ings
from fap a udits
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 60Far East south a sia EMEa total
NoN-Co MPliaNCE NoN-Co MPliaNCE NoN-Co MPliaNCE NoN-Co MPliaNCE
QuEstio N No. % % 2007 No. % % 2007 No. % % 2007 No. % % 2007
WorKErs’ riGhts
Is there any system for dialogue between workers and 
management in place in the factory?250 91% 83% 150 68% 73% 139 79% 75% 539 80% 78%
Is there a grievance system in place in the factory? 1257 93% 64% 149 67% 68% 114 56% 52% 520 74% 59%
Are monthly overtime hours within the legal limit? 221 82% 71% 158 72% 60% 127 61% 63% 506 73% 65%
Is overtime compensated according to the law? 174 65% 31% 43 20% 20% 128 58% 50% 345 49% 38%
Do all workers have an employment contract? 114 41% 18% 91 41% 57% 107 49% 41% 312 44% 36%
Does the factory pay social security? 140 51% 11% 19 14% 19% 111 48% 30% 270 42% 21%
Is annual leave granted and paid for according to law? 156 58% 41% 45 22% 17% 62 33% 23% 263 40% 29%
Are correct wages paid regularly and on time? 68 25% 15% 61 27% 31% 71 33% 16% 200 28% 18%
Are all additional types of leave, stipulated by law, granted to all workers?118 44% 30% 52 25% 43% 10 6% 5% 180 28% 22%
Is sick leave compensated by the factory according to the law? 
2143 52% 56% 23 13% 27% 1 3% 6% 167 35% 40%
Does the basic salary for every employee amount to at least the minimum wage for normal working hours (including piece rate workers)? 
366 25% 10% 16 7% 7% 58 25% 19% 140 19% 14%
Are the regular working hours within the legal limit  (excluding overtime)?46 17% 8% 16 7% 4% 75 35% 28% 137 19% 16%
Is sick leave granted according to the law? 72 26% 14% 30 14% 18% 25 12% 10% 127 18% 13%
Is maternity leave given and paid for according to law? 97 36% 18% 9 5% 9% 0 0% 1% 106 16% 8%NoN-complia Nce 
FInd Ings
from fap a udits
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 61Far East south a sia EMEa total
NoN-Co MPliaNCE NoN-Co MPliaNCE NoN-Co MPliaNCE NoN-Co MPliaNCE
QuEstio N No. % % 2007 No. % % 2007 No. % % 2007 No. % % 2007
WorKErs’ riGhts
Does the factory fulfil the legal requirement concerning  
day care?9 39% 41% 51 29% 42% 12 55% 30% 72 32% 38%
Are all workers protected from any forms of abusive behaviour in the factory?4 1% 2% 11 5% 14% 8 4% 2% 23 3% 4%
Do foreign and migrant workers have a residential permit/
working permit?8 5% 3% 0 0% 0% 3 33% 15% 11 7% 4%
Are all workers doing their work voluntary at all times? 6 2% 1% 2 1% 1% 2 1% 1% 10 1% 1%
Are all workers protected from any form of physical abuse or 
sexual harassment?0 0% 0% 3 1% 2% 5 2% 1% 8 1% 1%
Are all workers, despite for example gender, ethnic, religious or geographical background treated equally?1 0% 0% 1 0% 1% 5 2% 1% 7 1% 1%
Do the workers have the right to bargain collectively? 0 0% 0% 2 1% 1% 0 0% 0% 2 0% 0%
Are pregnant women guaranteed their employment during and 
after pregnancy?1 0% 0% 1 1% 0% 0 0% 0% 2 0% 0%
Do foreign and migrant workers have equal employment terms 
as local workers?1 0% 0% 0 0% 8% 0 0% 0% 1 0% 0%
Are workers in the factory free to join or form a union? 
4 0 0% 0% 0 0% 0% 0 0% 0% 0 0% 0%
total 1952 33% 22% 933 20% 23% 1063 25% 21% 3948 27% 21%
rEQuirEMEN ts For you NG W orKErs 
Are workers below 18 working under legal conditions?581 48% 19% 10 37% 39% 150 92% 84% 241 67% 55%
total 81 48% 19% 10 37% 39% 150 92% 94% 241 67% 55%NoN-complia Nce 
FInd Ings
from fap a udits
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 62Far East south a sia EMEa total
NoN-Co MPliaNCE NoN-Co MPliaNCE NoN-Co MPliaNCE NoN-Co MPliaNCE
QuEstio N No. % % 2007 No. % % 2007 No. % % 2007 No. % % 2007
Child labour 
Are all workers above or the same age as the minimum age 
required by the national law and H&Ms Code of Conduct? 614 5% 3% 0 0% 0% 14 6% 3% 28 4% 2%
total 14 5% 3% 0 0% 0% 14 6% 3% 28 4% 2%
FaCtory C oNditio Ns (basi C hEalth & sa FEty)*
Are the workers aware of and trained in fire fighting and evacuation?114 41% 10% 38 17% 22% 99 46% 55% 251 35% 33%
Is personal protection equipment provided and used, where necessary?152 59% 43% 38 18% 32% 64 42% 49% 254 41% 43%
Are any workers trained in first aid? 134 49% 20% 19 9% 14% 85 40% 50% 238 34% 33%
Are all additional safety requirements met? 114 41% 17% 20 9% 25% 91 42% 47% 225 31% 32%
Is adequate first aid equipment available on all floors? 114 41% 13% 14 6% 13% 39 18% 27% 167 23% 20%
Are hazardous machines equipped with necessary protection? 51 21% 20% 15 7% 12% 77 36% 43% 143 21% 29%
Are all basic safety requirements met? 58 21% 5% 18 8% 11% 61 26% 27% 137 19% 16%
Are toilets clean and maintained? 65 23% 16% 17 8% 25% 28 13% 6% 110 15% 13%
Is the ventilation in the factory adequate? 49 18% 6% 15 7% 14% 27 12% 13% 91 13% 11%
Can the workers drink water without health risks? 12 4% 3% 18 8% 17% 49 23% 16% 79 11% 12%
Is the factory clean and free from dirt and dust? 44 16% 10% 13 6% 16% 8 4% 6% 65 9% 9%
Does the factory provide a canteen/dining area available for the workers?13 6% 6% 24 11% 17% 13 6% 6% 50 8% 8%NoN-complia Nce 
FInd Ings
from fap a udits
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 63Far East south a sia EMEa total
NoN-Co MPliaNCE NoN-Co MPliaNCE NoN-Co MPliaNCE NoN-Co MPliaNCE
QuEstio N No. % % 2007 No. % % 2007 No. % % 2007 No. % % 2007
FaCtory C oNditio Ns (basi C hEalth & sa FEty)*
In case of injury or illness, can medical care for the workers be 
provided at short notice?15 5% 5% 13 6% 12% 16 7% 5% 44 6% 6%
Is the temperature in the factory tolerable to work in? 11 4% 4% 7 3% 9% 19 9% 8% 37 5% 7%
Do the workers have unlimited access to the toilets? 5 2% 1% 7 3% 7% 12 6% 2% 24 3% 3%
Is there a sufficient number of toilets? 12 4% 4% 3 1% 14% 8 4% 4% 23 3% 5%
Is the building considered as safe? 72 n.a. n.a. 6 n.a. n.a. 0 n.a. n.a. 8 n.a. n.a.
Is the light in the factory sufficient for intended work? 2 1% 1% 1 0% 1% 2 1% 1% 5 1% 1%
total 967 21% 11% 286 8% 15% 698 19% 21% 1951 16% 16%
ENviro NMEN t
Is the hazardous waste disposed of in a legal manner? 199 77% 61% 19 12% 36% 153 74% 80% 371 59% 66%
Have the workers regularly handling chemicals been trained in safe chemical handling?171 84% 56% 105 64% 78% 87 63% 74% 363 72% 69%
Does the factory have complete safety data sheets for all chemical products?170 78% 64% 111 65% 77% 68 49% 76% 349 66% 72%
Are the chemical containers properly labelled? 181 82% 60% 100 57% 68% 45 32% 48% 326 61% 56%
Is the information in the safety data sheets implemented? 148 73% 54% 107 66% 72% 66 48% 71% 321 64% 66%
Does the factory have the legally required environmental permits/licences?29 17% 15% 19 10% 17% 91 44% 36% 139 24% 26%
Is sludge from the wastewater treatment disposed of in a legal or otherwise responsible manner?21 36% 16% 7 11% 36% 3 20% 41% 31 22% 30%NoN-complia Nce 
FInd Ings
from fap a udits
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 64Far East south a sia EMEa total
NoN-Co MPliaNCE NoN-Co MPliaNCE NoN-Co MPliaNCE NoN-Co MPliaNCE
QuEstio N No. % % 2007 No. % % 2007 No. % % 2007 No. % % 2007
ENviro NMEN t
Does the wastewater treatment system meet requirements in 
local legislation?8 13% 12% 12 16% 20% 5 28% 32% 25 16% 21%
Is the outgoing wastewater treated? 10 10% 20% 8 10% 35% 5 19% 16% 23 11% 23%
Are there clear signs that the wastewater treatment system is in use?8 12% 10% 5 7% 18% 1 6% 9% 14 9% 13%
Is the factory complying with all relevant environmental laws? 
71 n.a. n.a. 2 n.a. n.a. 2 n.a. n.a. 5 n.a. n.a.
total 946 61% 47% 495 37% 50% 526 50% 60% 1967 50% 54%
saNdblasti NG & C hEMiCal tr EatMENt
Are legally required air quality measurements done? 12 92% n.a. 0 0% n.a. 1 33% n.a. 13 68% n.a.
Are the legally required health checks in place in the factory? 12 86% n.a. 0 0% n.a. 0 0% n.a. 12 60% n.a.
Are the workers spraying chemicals using the PPE needed? 6 60% n.a. 4 44% n.a. 1 20% n.a. 11 46% n.a.
Are the workers educated on safe handling and risks? 5 50% n.a. 4 50% n.a. 0 0% n.a. 9 43% n.a.
Is there a wash station in direct connection with the sandblasting workplace in case dust or chemicals get into workers’ eyes?3 23% n.a. 3 33% n.a. 1 33% n.a. 7 28% n.a.
Is hearing protection worn if there is a noisy environnment, e.g. sandblasting?5 56% n.a. 1 25% n.a. 0 0% n.a. 6 43% n.a.
Does the sandblasting material contain less than 1% crystalline silica (SiO2)?2 29% n.a. 3 75% n.a. 1 100% n.a. 6 50% n.a.
Are the workers handling potassium permanganate in storage 
and mixing using the PPE needed?5 38% n.a. 1 11% n.a. 0 0% n.a. 6 22% n.a.NoN-complia Nce 
FInd Ings
from fap a udits
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 65Far East south a sia EMEa total
NoN-Co MPliaNCE NoN-Co MPliaNCE NoN-Co MPliaNCE NoN-Co MPliaNCE
QuEstio N No. % % 2007 No. % % 2007 No. % % 2007 No. % % 2007
saNdblasti NG & C hEMiCal tr EatMENt
Is the potassium permanganate stored safely? 3 20% n.a. 2 22% n.a. 0 0% n.a. 5 17% n.a.
Are the workers’ sponging chemicals wearing impervious 
gloves?3 43% n.a. 0 0% n.a. 1 20% n.a. 4 24% n.a.
Does the factory have the required permit for doing 
sandblasting?3 50% n.a. 0 0% n.a. 0 0% n.a. 3 33% n.a.
Is compulsory personal protective equipment used? 0 0% n.a. 3 75% n.a. 0 0% n.a. 3 30% n.a.
Does the cleaning staff have compulsory PPE when cleaning 
sandblasting area?0 0% n.a. 2 40% n.a. 0 0% n.a. 2 22% n.a.
Is ventilation sufficient? 1 8% n.a. 0 0% n.a. 0 0% n.a. 1 4% n.a.
Is ventilation adopted for sandblasting activity? 1 11% n.a. 0 0% n.a. 0 0% n.a. 1 7% n.a.
Is the sandblasting done in a separate area? 1 11% n.a. 0 0% n.a. 0 0% n.a. 1 6% n.a.
Is additional personal protective equipment provided by employer?0 0% n.a. 0 0% n.a. 0 0% n.a. 0 0% n.a.
total 62 39% n.a. 23 23% n.a. 5 12% n.a. 90 30% n.a.
housi NG Co Nditio Ns
Are workers granted some personal privacy? 62 45% 36% 3 33% 43% 0 0% 0% 65 44% 36%
Does the dormitory meet required basic safety? 25 18% 9% 1 11% 0% 0 0% 0% 26 18% 9%
Is the dormitory clean and hygienic? 17 12% 10% 0 0% 14% 0 0% 0% 17 11% 10%
Are there a sufficient number of clean toilets? 8 6% 8% 1 11% 14% 0 0% 0% 9 6% 8%NoN-complia Nce 
FInd Ings
from fap a udits
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 66Far East south a sia EMEa total
NoN-Co MPliaNCE NoN-Co MPliaNCE NoN-Co MPliaNCE NoN-Co MPliaNCE
QuEstio N No. % % 2007 No. % % 2007 No. % % 2007 No. % % 2007
housi NG Co Nditio Ns
Are facilities for private hygiene provided? 7 5% 6% 1 11% 0% 0 0% 0% 8 5% 5%
Is the dormitory separated from the factory building? 5 4% 1% 2 20% 14% 0 0% 0% 7 5% 1%
Do the workers have access to and from the dormitory at any 
time?4 3% 0% 0 0% 0% 0 0% 0% 4 3% 0%
If there is a staffed kitchen in the dormitory, is it clean and 
hygienic?3 14% 31% 1 14% 14% 0 0% n.a. 4 14% 25%
Does everyone living in the dormitory have an individual bed? 1 1% 0% 2 22% 0% 0 0% 0% 3 2% 0%
Is the temperature in the dormitory tolerable? 2 1% 4% 1 11% 0% 0 0% 0% 3 2% 3%
total 134 11% 8% 12 13% 10% 0 0% 0% 146 11% 8%
GraNd total 4156 52% 19% 1759 17% 23% 2456 10% 25% 8371 25% 22%
* Subject to self assessment for selected key suppliers from 2009 on.
The table discloses all findings from our FAP audits in 2008 with comparison to 2007. Please note that findings from the two years do not necessarily relate to comparable production units.
Not all questions from our audit questionnaires are raised at every audit, but whenever applicable. For example, only a few production units perform sandblasting and housing for workers is rare in Europe. To provide a transparent and true picture, 
non-compliance levels are related to the frequency a question has been asked. This can sometimes lead to high percentage figures, while this stands for a low number of production units only.
The data includes all audit findings at FAP status from 2008 (2007). This also means that findings from audits on new or potentially new production units (also rejected ones) are included. During 2008 a total of 515 audits were carried out on 
potential new production units. Of these 312 production units were approved after this audit, 138 were rejected. 65 were not used due to, e.g. commercial reasons. 
Questions regarding sandblasting requirements have been asked since early 2007, but only registered in our data system since mid 2008.NoN-complia Nce 
FInd Ings
from fap a udits
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 67Generally we see an increase in the non-compliance level compared to 2007 for many issues especially in the Far East region. This is primarily caused by refined methods for detecting non-compliances, improved transparency from our suppliers and 
more unannounced audits (40% of all FAP audits and 81% of all follow-up audits (FUPs) in the Far East were unannounced in 2008). Especially in China we note that more trusting relationships with our suppliers and improved methods result in more findings, for example when it comes to employment contracts, overtime and its compensation, social security payments, minimum wages and workers´ awareness on fire fighting and evacuation measures. You can find more in depth comments on 
some issues below:
1  Grievance systems: Grievance systems are not required by our Code of Conduct. Findings are not considered as non-compliances. However, we think that functioning grievance systems are important tools on the way to compliance. We have 
increased our focus on this issue and during 2008 provided training for our auditors, especially in China (read more about it in the Auditor training chapter). This has led to a higher number of findings.
2 Sick leave compensation: Many countries in the EMEA region have public social security systems. For this reason, findings on this issue are very low here compared to the other regions.
3 Minimum wages: Not complying with the requirements concerning the payment of minimum wages leads to rejection. Non-compliances registered here primarily refer to findings from potential new production units that were rejected. 
4  Freedom of association: Non-compliances in this area are often hard to detect. However, we are aware of several cases of non-compliance issues especially from South Asia. H&M has been involved in solving/negotiating these cases, although they 
were not registered in our audit data system. We do of course also recognise that freedom of association is not granted in China and Vietnam due to related legislations.
5 Requirements for young workers: Non-compliances are most common in the EMEA region. The majority of these cases refer to exceeding the legal limit of working hours for workers below the age of 18.
6  Child labour:  
A total of 28 production units with child labour issues have been detected in 2008. Of these, 22 were existing production units, six were potential new ones which H&M has never had a business relationship with and accordingly did not enter such a relationship. 
Active production units:13 production units with non-compliance cases were detected in China, eight in Turkey and one in Cambodia. All in all a total of 25 children were found working at these production units. Almost all cases from China involved 15-year-old youths, while there were two 14-year-old children. The legal working age in China is 16 years. The youngest child found was 13 years and 11 months old. This has been the case at one of our suppliers in Turkey, which has been permanently rejected due to this violation. All other cases in Turkey as well as the case in Cambodia involved 14 year olds. Both countries require a minimum age of 15 years. In most cases forms of education were offered, while some children returned to school and others received 
other forms of education (for example computer training), in any case accompanied by financial support from the concerned supplier as required by H&M. In some cases, especially from Turkey, involving children very close to the legal working age of 
15 years, it has been agreed to re-employ them after reaching the legal age. Until then, at least the minimum wage will be paid by the concerned supplier. Similar measures have been taken in regard to four cases from China and the one from Cambodia. 
Potential new production units:
While auditing potential new production units, six of these in Turkey were found to be using child labour. H&M never had a business relationship with these production units and due to these findings, the concerned production units were graded 
rejected and not taken into consideration for producing goods for H&M. 
Find general information about what we do when we detect child labour on hm.com/cs r.
7 Building safety & environmental laws: For these two questions, only non-compliances are registered in the data system although they are a regular part of our audits. Non-compliance levels in percentages are therefore not available.H&M Sustainability Report 2008 68Share of No N-Complia NCe iSS ueS
2008
The data represents the share of non-compliance issues based on the total number of findings from all FAP audits conducted during 2008 (812 audits). 
Workers` rights issues are in focus of our audits and will remain there. Sandblasting requirements exist since early 2007 and first assesment audits have already been conducted during 2006. However, they were not 
entered into our data system until mid 2008. So, the given finding rate is considered to be too low. Since 2008 seven of our auditors are focused on EHS (environment, health and safety) issues and we have a global 
EHS coordinator in place. EHS includes requirements concerning sandblasting and chemical treatment. We expect a higher amount of findings in these issues in the future. Factory condition related findings stand for 
around 24% of all findings. However, we feel that our focus is best put on workers` rights and the environment. In 2009 we will test out self assesments in the area of factory conditions (basic health and safety) with 
some selected key suppliers.
Workers’ rights 47.2%
Environment 23.5%
Factory conditions (basic health and safety) 23.3%Requirements for young workers 2.9%Housing conditions 1.7%
Sandblasting and chemical treatment 1.1%
Child labour 0.3%Progress
FAP 1 – FAP 2
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 69Far East (11 production units) south a sia (92 production units) EMEa (59 production units) total (162 production units)
non-coMpliancE chan GE non-coMpliancE chan GE non-coMpliancE chan GE non-coMpliancE chan GE
Fap 1 Fap 2 Fap 1 – F ap 2 Fap 1 Fap 2 Fap 1 – F ap 2 Fap 1 Fap 2 Fap 1 – F ap 2 Fap 1 Fap 2 Fap 1 – F ap 2
QuEstion no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. %
WorKErs’ riGhts
Do all workers have an employment 
contract? 5 45% 2 18% -3 -60% 98 107% 59 64% -39 -40% 62 105% 23 39% -39 -63% 165 102% 84 52% -81 -49%
Is there a grievance system in place in the factory? 8 73% 8 73% 0 0% 97 105% 71 77% -26 -27% 33 56% 27 46% -6 -18% 138 85% 106 65% -32 -23%
Are monthly overtime hours within the legal limit? 9 82% 9 82% 0 0% 84 91% 84 91% 0 0% 42 71% 36 61% -6 -14% 135 83% 129 80% -6 -4%
Is there any system for dialogue between workers and management in place in the factory?9 82% 4 36% -5 -56% 85 92% 75 82% -10 -12% 37 63% 34 58% -3 -8% 131 81% 113 70% -18 -14%
Are correct wages paid regularly and on time? 5 45% 1 9% -4 -80% 74 80% 38 41% -36 -49% 14 24% 10 17% -4 -29% 93 57% 49 30% -44 -47%
Is overtime compensated according to the law? 4 36% 4 36% 0 0% 45 49% 12 13% -33 -73% 32 54% 16 27% -16 -50% 81 50% 32 20% -49 -60%
Does the basic salary for every employee amount to at least the minimum wage for normal working hours (including piece 
rate workers)?3 27% 0 0% -3-100% 44 48% 10 11% -34 -77% 23 39% 3 5% -20 -87% 70 43% 13 8% -57 -81%
Is annual leave granted and paid for 
according to law?3 27% 1 9% -2 -67% 33 36% 22 24% -11 -33% 12 20% 9 15% -3 -25% 48 30% 32 20% -16 -33%
Are all workers protected from any forms of abusive behaviour in the factory? 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 43 47% 6 7% -37 -86% 0 0% 2 3% 2 0% 43 27% 8 5% -35 -81%
Does the factory fulfil the legal requirement concerning day care? 3 27% 3 27% 0 0% 36 39% 30 33% -6 -17% 0 0% 2 3% 2 0% 39 24% 35 22% -4 -10%
Are the regular working hours within the legal limit? (excluding overtime) 1 9% 1 9% 0 0% 20 22% 4 4% -16 -80% 14 24% 4 7% -10 -71% 35 22% 9 6% -26 -74%Progress
FAP 1 – FAP 2
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 70Far East (11 production units) south a sia (92 production units) EMEa (59 production units) total (162 production units)
non-coMpliancE chan GE non-coMpliancE chan GE non-coMpliancE chan GE non-coMpliancE chan GE
Fap 1 Fap 2 Fap 1 – F ap 2 Fap 1 Fap 2 Fap 1 – F ap 2 Fap 1 Fap 2 Fap 1 – F ap 2 Fap 1 Fap 2 Fap 1 – F ap 2
QuEstion no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. %
WorKErs’ riGhts
Is sick leave granted according to the 
law? 2 18% 1 9% -1 -50% 32 35% 15 16% -17 -53% 1 2% 1 2% 0 0% 35 22% 17 10% -18 -51%
Is maternity leave given and paid for according to law? 3 27% 3 27% 0 0% 29 32% 7 8% -22 -76% 1 2% 1 2% 0 0% 33 20% 11 7% -22 -67%
Are all additional types of leave, stipulated by law, granted to all workers? 2 18% 2 18% 0 0% 22 24% 24 26% 2 9% 5 8% 5 8% 0 0% 29 18% 31 19% 2 7%
Does the factory pay social security? 4 36% 1 9% -3 -75% 7 8% 5 5% -2 -29% 15 25% 9 15% -6 -40% 26 16% 15 9% -11 -42%
Are all workers doing their work voluntary at all times? 1 9% 0 0% -1-100% 24 26% 3 3% -21 -88% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 25 15% 3 2% -22 -88%
Is sick leave compensated by the factory according to the law? 5 45% 2 18% -3 -60% 15 16% 5 5% -10 -67% 1 2% 0 0% -1-100% 21 13% 7 4% -14 -67%
Are pregnant women guaranteed their employment during and after pregnancy? 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 11 12% 0 0% -11 -100% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 11 7% 0 0% -11 -100%
Are all workers protected from any form of physical abuse or sexual harassment? 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 9 10% 0 0% -9-100% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 9 6% 0 0% -9-100%
Do the workers have the right to bargain collectively? 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 5 5% 0 0% -5-100% 1 2% 0 0% -1-100% 6 4% 0 0% -6-100%
Are workers in the factory free to join or form a union? 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 2 2% 0 0% -2-100% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 2 1% 0 0% -2-100%
Do foreign and migrant workers have a residential permit/working permit? 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 1% 0 0% -1-100% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 1% 0 0% -1-100%Progress
FAP 1 – FAP 2
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 71Far East (11 production units) south a sia (92 production units) EMEa (59 production units) total (162 production units)
non-coMpliancE chan GE non-coMpliancE chan GE non-coMpliancE chan GE non-coMpliancE chan GE
Fap 1 Fap 2 Fap 1 – F ap 2 Fap 1 Fap 2 Fap 1 – F ap 2 Fap 1 Fap 2 Fap 1 – F ap 2 Fap 1 Fap 2 Fap 1 – F ap 2
QuEstion no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. %
WorKErs’ riGhts
Are all workers, regardless of gender, 
ethnic, religious or geographical background treated equally?0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 2% 0 0% -1-100% 1 1% 0 0% -1-100%
rEQuirEMEnts F or youn G WorKErs
Are workers below 18 working under legal conditions? 1 9% 1 9% 0 0% 12 13% 6 7% -6 -50% 54 92% 25 42% -29 -54% 67 41% 32 20% -35 -52%
child labour 
Are all workers above or the same age as the minimum age required by the national law and H&Ms Code of Conduct?0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 5 5% 0 0% -5-100% 3 5% 0 0% -3-100% 8 5% 0 0% -8-100%
Factory conditions (basic h Ealth & sa FEty)
Are all additional safety requirements met? 2 18% 1 9% -1 -50% 32 35% 0 0% -32 -100% 36 61% 11 19% -25 -69% 70 43% 12 7% -58 -83%
Are the workers aware of and trained in fire fighting and evacuation? 1 9% 1 9% 0 0% 31 34% 12 13% -19 -61% 35 59% 10 17% -25 -71% 67 41% 23 14% -44 -66%
Are all basic safety requirements met? 7 64% 0 0% -7-100% 31 34% 12 13% -19 -61% 22 37% 2 3% -20 -91% 60 37% 14 9% -46 -77%
Is personal protection equipment (PPE) provided and used, where necessary? 3 27% 3 27% 0 0% 40 43% 11 12% -29 -73% 16 27% 11 19% -5 -31% 59 36% 25 15% -34 -58%
Are any workers trained in first aid? 3 27% 3 27% 0 0% 21 23% 10 11% -11 -52% 30 51% 4 7% -26 -87% 54 33% 17 10% -37 -69%
Are toilets clean and maintained? 4 36% 3 27% -1 -25% 25 27% 5 5% -20 -80% 9 15% 6 10% -3 -33% 38 23% 14 9% -24 -63%
Can the workers drink water without health risks? 1 9% 0 0% -1-100% 23 25% 8 9% -15 -65% 10 17% 5 8% -5 -50% 34 21% 13 8% -21 -62%
Is the ventilation in the factory adequate? 2 18% 0 0% -2-100% 27 29% 6 7% -21 -78% 5 8% 5 8% 0 0% 34 21% 11 7% -23 -68%Progress
FAP 1 – FAP 2
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 72Far East (11 production units) south a sia (92 production units) EMEa (59 production units) total (162 production units)
non-coMpliancE chan GE non-coMpliancE chan GE non-coMpliancE chan GE non-coMpliancE chan GE
Fap 1 Fap 2 Fap 1 – F ap 2 Fap 1 Fap 2 Fap 1 – F ap 2 Fap 1 Fap 2 Fap 1 – F ap 2 Fap 1 Fap 2 Fap 1 – F ap 2
QuEstion no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. %
Factory conditions (basic h Ealth & sa FEty)
Is adequate first aid equipment available 
on all floors?3 27% 1 9% -2 -67% 14 15% 4 4% -10 -71% 12 20% 7 12% -5 -42% 29 18% 12 7% -17 -59%
Are hazardous machines equipped with necessary protection? 1 9% 0 0% -1-100% 11 12% 4 4% -7 -64% 13 22% 9 15% -4 -31% 25 15% 13 8% -12 -48%
Does the factory provide a canteen/dining area available for the workers? 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 17 18% 16 17% -1 -6% 4 7% 5 8% 1 25% 21 13% 21 13% 0 0%
Is the temperature in the factory tolerable to work in? 1 9% 0 0% -1-100% 13 14% 7 8% -6 -46% 6 10% 5 8% -1 -17% 20 12% 12 7% -8 -40%
In case of injury or illness, can medical care for the workers be provided at short notice?1 9% 1 9% 0 0% 16 17% 5 5% -11 -69% 2 3% 2 3% 0 0% 19 12% 8 5% -11 -58%
Is the factory clean and free from dirt  and dust? 1 9% 1 9% 0 0% 7 8% 1 1% -6 -86% 9 15% 4 7% -5 -56% 17 10% 6 4% -11 -65%
Do the workers have unlimited access to the toilets? 3 27% 0 0% -3-100% 13 14% 2 2% -11 -85% 0 0% 4 7% 4 0% 16 10% 6 4% -10 -63%
Is there a sufficient number of toilets? 1 9% 0 0% -1-100% 12 13% 2 2% -10 -83% 1 2% 1 2% 0 0% 14 9% 3 2% -11 -79%
Is the light in the factory sufficient for intended work? 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 3 3% 0 0% -3-100% 3 5% 1 2% -2 -67% 6 4% 1 1% -5 -83%
Is the building considered as safe? 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 1% 4 4% 3300% 1 2% 0 0% -1-100% 2 1% 4 2% 2100%Progress
FAP 1 – FAP 2
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 73Far East (11 production units) south a sia (92 production units) EMEa (59 production units) total (162 production units)
non-coMpliancE chan GE non-coMpliancE chan GE non-coMpliancE chan GE non-coMpliancE chan GE
Fap 1 Fap 2 Fap 1 – F ap 2 Fap 1 Fap 2 Fap 1 – F ap 2 Fap 1 Fap 2 Fap 1 – F ap 2 Fap 1 Fap 2 Fap 1 – F ap 2
QuEstion no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. %
Environ MEnt
Does the factory have complete safety 
data sheets for all chemical products?2 18% 5 45% 3150% 45 49% 52 57% 7 16% 25 42% 17 29% -8 -32% 72 44% 74 46% 2 3%
Have the workers regularly handling chemicals been trained in safe chemical handling?3 27% 6 55% 3100% 34 37% 39 42% 5 15% 21 36% 23 39% 2 10% 58 36% 68 42% 10 17%
Are the chemical containers properly labelled? 5 45% 5 45% 0 0% 37 40% 49 53% 12 32% 15 25% 11 19% -4 -27% 57 35% 65 40% 8 14%
Is the hazardous waste disposed of in a legal manner? 2 18% 4 36% 2100% 30 33% 3 3% -27 -90% 24 41% 28 47% 4 17% 56 35% 35 22% -21 -38%
Is the information in the safety data sheets implemented? 2 18% 4 36% 2100% 28 30% 48 52% 20 71% 19 32% 19 32% 0 0% 49 30% 71 44% 22 45%
Does the factory have the legally required environmental permits/licences? 1 9% 1 9% 0 0% 24 26% 3 3% -21 -88% 7 12% 10 17% 3 43% 32 20% 14 9% -18 -56%
Is the outgoing wastewater treated? 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 17 18% 3 3% -14 -82% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 17 10% 3 2% -14 -82%
Does the wastewater treatment system meet requirements in local legislation? 1 9% 0 0% -1-100% 2 2% 4 4% 2100% 3 5% 0 0% -3-100% 6 4% 4 2% -2 -33%
Is sludge from the wastewater treatment disposed of in a legal or otherwise responsible manner?0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 5 5% 5 5% 0 0% 0 0% 1 2% 1 0% 5 3% 6 4% 1 20%
Is the factory complying with all relevant environmental laws? 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 2 2% 0 0% -2-100% 1 2% 0 0% -1-100% 3 2% 0 0% -3-100%
Are there clear signs that the wastewater treatment system is in use? 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 3 3% 5 5% 2 67% 0 0% 1 2% 1 0% 3 2% 6 4% 3100%Progress
FAP 1 – FAP 2
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 74Far East (11 production units) south a sia (92 production units) EMEa (59 production units) total (162 production units)
non-coMpliancE chan GE non-coMpliancE chan GE non-coMpliancE chan GE non-coMpliancE chan GE
Fap 1 Fap 2 Fap 1 – F ap 2 Fap 1 Fap 2 Fap 1 – F ap 2 Fap 1 Fap 2 Fap 1 – F ap 2 Fap 1 Fap 2 Fap 1 – F ap 2
QuEstion no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. %
sandblastin G & ch EMical tr EatMEnt
Are legally required air quality 
measurements done?0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 1% 0 0% -1-100% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 1% 0 0% -1-100%
Is ventilation sufficient? 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 1% 1 1% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 1% 1 1% 0 0%
Are the workers educated on safe handling and risks? 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 1% 3 3% 2200% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 1% 3 2% 2200%
Does the sandblasting material contain less than 1% crystalline silica (SiO2)? 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 1% 2 2% 1100% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 1% 2 1% 1100%
Is there a wash station in direct connection with the sandblasting workplace in case dust or chemicals get 
into workers’ eyes?0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 2 2% 2200% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 2 1% 2200%
Is hearing protection worn if there is a 
noisy environnment, e.g. sandblasting?0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 1% 1100% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 1% 1100%
Is compulsory personal protective equipment (PPE) used? 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 1% 1100% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 1% 1100%
Does the cleaning staff have compulsory PPE when cleaning sandblasting area? 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 1% 1100% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 1% 1100%
Are the workers handling potassium permanganate in storage and mixing using the PPE needed?0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 1% 1100% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 1% 1100%
Are the workers spraying chemicals using the PPE needed? 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 3 3% 3300% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 3 2% 3300%
Is the potassium permanganate stored safely? 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 2 2% 2200% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 2 1% 2200%Progress
FAP 1 – FAP 2
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 75Far East (11 production units) south a sia (92 production units) EMEa (59 production units) total (162 production units)
non-coMpliancE chan GE non-coMpliancE chan GE non-coMpliancE chan GE non-coMpliancE chan GE
Fap 1 Fap 2 Fap 1 – F ap 2 Fap 1 Fap 2 Fap 1 – F ap 2 Fap 1 Fap 2 Fap 1 – F ap 2 Fap 1 Fap 2 Fap 1 – F ap 2
QuEstion no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. % no. %
housin G
Are workers granted some personal 
privacy? 1 9% 1 9% 0 0% 2 2% 1 1% -1 -50% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 3 2% 2 1% -1 -33%
Does the dormitory meet required basic safety? 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 1% 0 0% -1-100% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 1% 0 0% -1-100%
Is the temperature in the dormitory tolerable? 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 1% 1 1% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 1% 1 1% 0 0%
Does everyone living in the dormitory have an individual bed? 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 1% 1 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 1% 1 0%
total 119 16% 83 11% -36 -30% 1405 17% 816 13% -589 -42% 680 18% 409 11% -271 -40% 2204 21% 1308 12% -896 -41%
By the end of 2008, 169 production units entered their second audit cycle with a second FAP audit since we started our Full Audit Programme (FAP) in 2006. The data provided compares the audit findings from both the first and second FAP audits at a total of 162 of these production units. Data for seven of the concerned production units was not available at the time the data was gathered.
In between the two FAP audits, non-compliances detected at the first FAP audit have been followed up by, in general, three follow-up audits, aiming to remediate non-compliances. In the case a non-compliance is detected during a follow-up, this 
finding is added to the total number of findings in the data provided above. In some rare cases, non-compliance findings from a FAP audit have first been identified to be solved in a follow-up, while a later follow-up audit detected a non-compliance in the same area once again. These cases are counted as multiple non-compliances. This explains why findings related to grievance systems (which are not required by our Code) and employment contracts show more than 100% non-compliance at FAP 1 in South Asia / South Asia and EMEA. Due to improved knowledge about data entering procedures and findings around the issue of grievance systems we see more reliable data at the FAP 2 status in regard to these particular issues.
We see good progress regarding most issues, although we have increased the focus on performing unannounced audits for the second FAP. Overtime above the legal limit shows some progress but remains an ongoing challenge. Findings on several 
environmental requirements have increased, thanks to now having seven dedicated EHS auditors (environment, health and safety) in place.
Data available for the Far East region applies to a limited amount of production units (11) and can therefore not be considered as fully representative. This low number results from the fact that our Full Audit Programme has been implemented later  
in the Far East than in other regions and due to this less production units have entered their second FAP audit cycle so far.H&M Sustainability Report 2008 76CO 2 EMISSIONS
The table below shows that our activities in 2008 caused 2.70 tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions per million SEK of turnover (incl. VAT). This is an increase of 5% from 2,57 tonnes of CO 2 per million SEK of turnover 
from the previous year. However, we have made very good progress towards achieving our 2009 target to reduce emissions by 10% taking the 2004 level as baseline.
 
Part of the increase in emissions in 2008 is the result of changed rules around reporting CO 2 emissions from renewable electricity purchased in the UK. Previously UK electricity customers were able to buy renewable 
energy and use this as a ‘zero-carbon’ in CO 2 calculations. This is how H&M treated renewable electricity purchased in the UK in previous years’ CO 2 calculations. The UK’s voluntary reporting rules for CO 2 emissions 
have now changed because renewable electricity is already included within the carbon intensity of the UK’s standard grid electricity, which includes all sources of electricity generation. 
H&M has applied these new rules for calculating CO 2 emissions for the 2008 emissions and this has played a part in CO 2 emissions from electricity consumption, increasing by 60% compared to 2007. This source of 
emissions now stands for 34% of all emissions (2007: 25%).
2008 2007 2006 2005
CO 2 Emissi On by s OurCE sharE TOnnEs Chang E 
frOm las T 
yEarsharE TOnnEs Chang E 
frOm las T 
yEarsharE TOnnEs Chang E 
frOm las T 
yEarsharE TOnnEs
Distribution centres 3% 8632 14% 3% 7601 7% 2% 7125 -39% 4% 11599
Electricity (entire company) 34% 94557 60% 25% 59162 -51% 40% 120949 3% 39% 117647
Transport (road, sea, rail) 38% 105565 10% 41% 96163 -48% 30% 90682 -1% 28% 83149
Transports (air, including air 
from sea/air combination)17% 47525 -5% 21% 50142 6% 21% 62426 9% 24% 71131
Business travel 8% 21480 1% 9% 21335 -20% 6% 16691 -12% 4% 12537
Fuels for company owned cars 1% 2875 6% 1% 2714 28% 1% 2531 33% 1% 2346
Total 100% 280634 18% 100% 237117 -21% 100% 300404 8% 100% 298409CO 2 EFFICIENCY TARGETSH&M Sustainability Report 2008 77CO 2 Emissi Ons in TO nnEs rElaTivE TO sal Es (sEk milli Ons in Cluding va T) inCrEasE in T urnOvEr (in Cluding va T) and CO 2 Emissi Ons (TOTal TO nnEs) 2004-2008CO 2 EMISSIONS
CO 2 EFFICIENCY TARGETS
2009
CO2 Emissions (tonnes per million SEK turnover including VAT)3.45
20082.70
20072.57
20063.75
20054.15
20043.84Actual Target
16%65%
Total increase in turnover 
(including VAT)Total increase in CO2 emissions
(total tonnes)H&M Sustainability Report 2008 78CO 2 EMISSIONS
bY SO uRCE 2008
Distribution centres 3%
Electricity (entire company) 34%Transport (road, sea, rail) 38%
Transports (air , including air from sea/air combination) 17%
Business travel 8%
Fuels for company owned cars 1%H&M Sustainability Report 2008 79our colleaguesData available for the total number of 70,303 employees (= 97% of total workforce by 30 November 2008). 
Not including franchise operations.
Data available for the total number of 66,625 employees (= 92% of total average workforce by 30 November 2008). No data available for Japan (305), part time employees in China (44) and Production Ofﬁces. Not including franchise operations. Data is not gathered for H&M Head Ofﬁce and Buying Ofﬁce due to non-comparable employment categories. The ratio is calculated as a weighted ratio due to different currency rates and payment intervals.
* This category includes a large number of different tasks, which are hard to compare such as our sales country manager 
and controllers, merchandisers, advertising, PR, accounting, administration etc. This estimation is supported by the fact that we see the biggest differences in our largest markets with a huge variety of different tasks in our country ofﬁces. This might be a reason for an unequal ﬁgure in this particular category. However we will look into this during 2009 to verify.EMPLOYEES PER JOB CATEGORY (%) 
Sales associates 69% EMPLOYEES PER REGION (%)Europe (except Sweden): 76%
North America: 12%Sweden: 9%
Production Ofﬁces: 2%
Asia: 1% Warehouse employee 7% EMPLOYEE BREAKDOWN BY REGION AND JOB CATEGORY 
Floor manager 6%
Visual merchandiser 6%Store manager 3%Country ofﬁce employees 3%
Production Ofﬁces 2%
Buying Ofﬁce 2%
Head Ofﬁce 1%  
Other 1% 
RATIO OF SALARY BETWEEN WOMEN AND MEN 
Store managers: 0.938Visual merchandiser: 0.938
Floor managers: 0.968
Sales associates: 0.997Warehouse employees: 0.900Country ofﬁce employees: 0.769*
Others: 0.958
Not including franchise operations.SHARE OF FEMALE EMPLOYEES PER EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY 
Board of directors: 35%Group Management level: 33%
Sales Country managers: 44%
Production Ofﬁce managers: 45%Buying Division heads: 57%Buying Section heads: 83%
Area managers: 67%
Store managers: 77%
Total share of female employees in management positions: 76%Total share of female employees among total workforce: 79%our colleagues
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 802009
CO2 Emis sions (tonnes per million SEK turnov er including VAT)3.45
20082.70
20072.57
20063.75
20054.15
20043.84Actual Target<100 l/kg
product 71%
100-200 l/kg
product 16%
>200 l/kg
product 13%
BOD <30 mg COD <200  mg/l
Water qual ity parameterTSS >3 0 mg /l58.5% 59.8%90.6%
83.7%
73.4%
61.7%2007 2008Part time
employees
52.7%
Full time 
employees
47.3%
Data av ailabl e for the tota l numb er of 69 ,265 em ployees 
(= 96% of tota l work force by 30 November 20 08). 
No data availabl e for prod uction of ﬁces. Not includin g 
franchise operatio ns.
Permanent
contra cts
82.1%
Temporary
contra cts
17.9%
Data av ailabl e for the tota l numb er of 69 ,265 em ployees 
(= 96% of tota l work force by 30 November 20 08). 
No data availabl e for prod uction of ﬁces. Not includin g 
franchise operatio ns.
Data av ailabl e for the tota l numb er of 70,303 employees (= 97% of tota l work force by 30 November 20 08). 
Not includin g franchise operatio ns.
Data av ailabl e for the tota l numb er of 66,625 em ployees (= 92% of tota l average work force by 30 November 20 08). No data 
availabl e for Ja pan (305), part  time empl oyees in China (44) and Prod uction Ofﬁces. Not includin g franchise opera tions. 
Data is no t gathered for H&M He ad Ofﬁce and Buying Ofﬁce due to non- comparable em ployment categori es. The ratio is 
calculated as a we ighted ra tio due to di fferent currency rate s and payment intervals.
* This categor y includes a large numb er of different ta sk, which are hard to co mpare such  as our sales country mana ger 
and contro llers, merc handis ers, advertising, PR, acco unting, admini stration etc. This estimation is supp orted by the fa ct 
that we se e the bi ggest differences in our largest markets wi th a hu ge vari ety of different ta sks in our country ofﬁces. 
This migh t be a re ason for an unequal ﬁgur e in this part icular categor y. However we wi ll look into this during 2009 to veri fy.EMPLOY EES PER JOB CA TEGORY (% ) 
Sales assistant 69% EMPLOY EES PER RE GION (%)
Europe (except Swed en): 76%
North Am erica: 12%
Swed en: 9%
Production Ofﬁces: 2%
Asia: 1% Warehouse employee 7% EMPLOY EE BR EAKD OWN BY REGION AND JOB CA TEGORY  
Floor manag er 6%
Visual merchandis er 6%
Store manag er 3%
Country ofﬁce em ployees 3%
Production Ofﬁces 2%
Buying Ofﬁce 2%
Head Ofﬁce 1%   
Other 1% 
RATIO OF SALARY BE TWEEN WOMEN AND MEN 
Store manag ers: 0.93 8
Visual merchandis er: 0.93 8
Floor manag ers: 0.968
Sales assistants: 0.997
Warehouse employees: 0.900
Country ofﬁce em ployees: 0.769
Others: 0.95 8
Not includin g franchise operatio ns.SHARE OF FE MALE EMPLOY EES PER EMPLOY MENT CATEGORY  
Board of directors: 35%
Group Ma nageme nt leve l: 33%
Sales Country manag ers: 44%
Production Ofﬁce manag ers: 45%
Buying Division heads: 57%
Buying Sect ion heads: 83%
Area manag ers: 67%
Store manag ers: 77%
Total share of fema le employees in manag emen t pos itions: 76%
Total share of fema le employees among total workforce : 79%ROLE
CSR unit
Regional Coor dinatorHEADQUARTE RS
(SWEDEN)
10
–
–
––
101 (Global EHS
coordinator)
1 fabr ic and
ﬁbre coor dinatorFAR EAST
13
1
33
2
421 project
coordinatorSOUTH ASIA
1
2
–
14
–
18EMEA
1–
1
–
13
1
16CoC Ma nager
CoC co ntroller
Auditor
Admin
TOTAL
TOTAL AUDITS BY REGION 2008
1,145
615
749
2,5092007
592
657
734
1,983Far Ea st
Asia
EMEA
TOTAL
INITIAL (FAP) AND FO LLOW  UP (FUP ) AUDITS BY REGION 2008
FAP AU DITS 
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007FUP AU DITS TOTAL
2323 86
4164 69
9482293033 00 8422 92
280
8121 ,697425
318
1,035615
7491,1455 92
2,509657
734
1,983REGION
South Asia
EMEA
TOTALFar Ea st2.5 Our CSR Team
2.8 Audit ﬁndings
2.8 Audit ﬁndings5.1 Overview
3.4 Wa ste water3.4 Wa ste water
5.1 Overview
5.1 Overview
5.2 Our approach
5.2 Our approachEmploy EE contract typ E 2008
Data available for the total number of 70,303 employees (= 97% of total workforce by 30 November 2008). 
Not including franchise operations.
Data available for the total number of 66,625 employees (= 92% of total average workforce by 30 November 2008). No data available for Japan (305), part time employees in China (44) and Production Ofﬁces. Not including franchise operations. Data is not gathered for H&M Head Ofﬁce and Buying Ofﬁce due to non-comparable employment categories. The ratio is calculated as a weighted ratio due to different currency rates and payment intervals.
* This category includes a large number of different tasks, which are hard to compare such as our sales country manager 
and controllers, merchandisers, advertising, PR, accounting, administration etc. This estimation is supported by the fact that we see the biggest differences in our largest markets with a huge variety of different tasks in our country ofﬁces. This might be a reason for an unequal ﬁgure in this particular category. However we will look into this during 2009 to verify.EMPLOYEES PER JOB CATEGORY (%) 
Sales associates 69% EMPLOYEES PER REGION (%)Europe (except Sweden): 76%
North America: 12%Sweden: 9%
Production Ofﬁces: 2%
Asia: 1% Warehouse employee 7% EMPLOYEE BREAKDOWN BY REGION AND JOB CATEGORY 
Floor manager 6%
Visual merchandiser 6%Store manager 3%Country ofﬁce employees 3%
Production Ofﬁces 2%
Buying Ofﬁce 2%
Head Ofﬁce 1%  
Other 1% 
RATIO OF SALARY BETWEEN WOMEN AND MEN 
Store managers: 0.938Visual merchandiser: 0.938
Floor managers: 0.968
Sales associates: 0.997Warehouse employees: 0.900Country ofﬁce employees: 0.769*
Others: 0.958
Not including franchise operations.SHARE OF FEMALE EMPLOYEES PER EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY 
Board of directors: 35%Group Management level: 33%
Sales Country managers: 44%
Production Ofﬁce managers: 45%Buying Division heads: 57%Buying Section heads: 83%
Area managers: 67%
Store managers: 77%
Total share of female employees in management positions: 76%Total share of female employees among total workforce: 79%our colleagues
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 812009
CO2 Emis sions (tonnes per million SEK turnov er including VAT)3.45
20082.70
20072.57
20063.75
20054.15
20043.84Actual Target<100 l/kg
product 71%
100-200 l/kg
product 16%
>200 l/kg
product 13%
BOD <30 mg COD <200  mg/l
Water qual ity parameterTSS >3 0 mg /l58.5% 59.8%90.6%
83.7%
73.4%
61.7%2007 2008Part time
employees
52.7%
Full time 
employees
47.3%
Data av ailabl e for the tota l numb er of 69 ,265 em ployees 
(= 96% of tota l work force by 30 November 20 08). 
No data availabl e for prod uction of ﬁces. Not includin g 
franchise operatio ns.
Permanent
contra cts
82.1%
Temporary
contra cts
17.9%
Data av ailabl e for the tota l numb er of 69 ,265 em ployees 
(= 96% of tota l work force by 30 November 20 08). 
No data availabl e for prod uction of ﬁces. Not includin g 
franchise operatio ns.
Data av ailabl e for the tota l numb er of 70,303 employees (= 97% of tota l work force by 30 November 20 08). 
Not includin g franchise operatio ns.
Data av ailabl e for the tota l numb er of 66,625 em ployees (= 92% of tota l average work force by 30 November 20 08). No data 
availabl e for Ja pan (305), part  time empl oyees in China (44) and Prod uction Ofﬁces. Not includin g franchise opera tions. 
Data is no t gathered for H&M He ad Ofﬁce and Buying Ofﬁce due to non- comparable em ployment categori es. The ratio is 
calculated as a we ighted ra tio due to di fferent currency rate s and payment intervals.
* This categor y includes a large numb er of different ta sk, which are hard to co mpare such  as our sales country mana ger 
and contro llers, merc handis ers, advertising, PR, acco unting, admini stration etc. This estimation is supp orted by the fa ct 
that we se e the bi ggest differences in our largest markets wi th a hu ge vari ety of different ta sks in our country ofﬁces. 
This migh t be a re ason for an unequal ﬁgur e in this part icular categor y. However we wi ll look into this during 2009 to veri fy.EMPLOY EES PER JOB CA TEGORY (% ) 
Sales assistant 69% EMPLOY EES PER RE GION (%)
Europe (except Swed en): 76%
North Am erica: 12%
Swed en: 9%
Production Ofﬁces: 2%
Asia: 1% Warehouse employee 7% EMPLOY EE BR EAKD OWN BY REGION AND JOB CA TEGORY  
Floor manag er 6%
Visual merchandis er 6%
Store manag er 3%
Country ofﬁce em ployees 3%
Production Ofﬁces 2%
Buying Ofﬁce 2%
Head Ofﬁce 1%   
Other 1% 
RATIO OF SALARY BE TWEEN WOMEN AND MEN 
Store manag ers: 0.93 8
Visual merchandis er: 0.93 8
Floor manag ers: 0.968
Sales assistants: 0.997
Warehouse employees: 0.900
Country ofﬁce em ployees: 0.769
Others: 0.95 8
Not includin g franchise operatio ns.SHARE OF FE MALE EMPLOY EES PER EMPLOY MENT CATEGORY  
Board of directors: 35%
Group Ma nageme nt leve l: 33%
Sales Country manag ers: 44%
Production Ofﬁce manag ers: 45%
Buying Division heads: 57%
Buying Sect ion heads: 83%
Area manag ers: 67%
Store manag ers: 77%
Total share of fema le employees in manag emen t pos itions: 76%
Total share of fema le employees among total workforce : 79%ROLE
CSR unit
Regional Coor dinatorHEADQUARTE RS
(SWEDEN)
10
–
–
––
101 (Global EHS
coordinator)
1 fabr ic and
ﬁbre coor dinatorFAR EAST
13
1
33
2
421 project
coordinatorSOUTH ASIA
1
2
–
14
–
18EMEA
1–
1
–
13
1
16CoC Ma nager
CoC co ntroller
Auditor
Admin
TOTAL
TOTAL AUDITS BY REGION 2008
1,145
615
749
2,5092007
592
657
734
1,983Far Ea st
Asia
EMEA
TOTAL
INITIAL (FAP) AND FO LLOW  UP (FUP ) AUDITS BY REGION 2008
FAP AU DITS 
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007FUP AU DITS TOTAL
2323 86
4164 69
9482293033 00 8422 92
280
8121 ,697425
318
1,035615
7491,1455 92
2,509657
734
1,983REGION
South Asia
EMEA
TOTALFar Ea st2.5 Our CSR Team
2.8 Audit ﬁndings
2.8 Audit ﬁndings5.1 Overview
3.4 Wa ste water3.4 Wa ste water
5.1 Overview
5.1 Overview
5.2 Our approach
5.2 Our approachFull tim E and part tim E Employ EEs 2008Data available for the total number of 70,303 employees (= 97% of total workforce by 30 November 2008). 
Not including franchise operations.
Data available for the total number of 66,625 employees (= 92% of total average workforce by 30 November 2008). No data available for Japan (305), part time employees in China (44) and Production Ofﬁces. Not including franchise operations. Data is not gathered for H&M Head Ofﬁce and Buying Ofﬁce due to non-comparable employment categories. The ratio is calculated as a weighted ratio due to different currency rates and payment intervals.
* This category includes a large number of different tasks, which are hard to compare such as our sales country manager 
and controllers, merchandisers, advertising, PR, accounting, administration etc. This estimation is supported by the fact that we see the biggest differences in our largest markets with a huge variety of different tasks in our country ofﬁces. This might be a reason for an unequal ﬁgure in this particular category. However we will look into this during 2009 to verify.EMPLOYEES PER JOB CATEGORY (%) 
Sales associates 69% EMPLOYEES PER REGION (%)Europe (except Sweden): 76%
North America: 12%Sweden: 9%
Production Ofﬁces: 2%
Asia: 1% Warehouse employee 7% EMPLOYEE BREAKDOWN BY REGION AND JOB CATEGORY 
Floor manager 6%
Visual merchandiser 6%Store manager 3%Country ofﬁce employees 3%
Production Ofﬁces 2%
Buying Ofﬁce 2%
Head Ofﬁce 1%  
Other 1% 
RATIO OF SALARY BETWEEN WOMEN AND MEN 
Store managers: 0.938Visual merchandiser: 0.938
Floor managers: 0.968
Sales associates: 0.997Warehouse employees: 0.900Country ofﬁce employees: 0.769*
Others: 0.958
Not including franchise operations.SHARE OF FEMALE EMPLOYEES PER EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY 
Board of directors: 35%Group Management level: 33%
Sales Country managers: 44%
Production Ofﬁce managers: 45%Buying Division heads: 57%Buying Section heads: 83%
Area managers: 67%
Store managers: 77%
Total share of female employees in management positions: 76%Total share of female employees among total workforce: 79%global
Environm Ental
Targe Ts 2009
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 82target timeframe responsible
Use cotton in H&M supply chain from the first Better Cotton Initiative implementation season 2010 Henrik Lampa, KG Fagerlin
Include 250 tonnes of transitional cotton into H&M supply chain Q1, 2010 Henrik Lampa, Halide Alagoz
Increase the number of Eco Flower labelled garments for 2009 by 20% over the previous year 2009 Charlotte Tholsby
Increase the use of recycled and recyclable materials by making our plastic carrier bags out of recycled plastic 2009 Viveca Kleebinder, Madelene Ericsson
Pilot water saving washing technique in denim laundries 2009 Lars Dömer
Identify hotspots where wet processing units with high water use and/or low water efficiency are located in water scarce areas 2009 Henrik Lampa
Identify a method for monitoring the carbon footprint of our supply chain 2009 Henrik Lampa, Mikael Blommé
Initiate supply chain carbon footprint monitoring 2010 Henrik Lampa, Mikael Blommé
Installed wattage for all sales area lighting in new stores reduced by 13% August 2009 Peter Ekeberg, Magnus Tångring
To test out energy-efficient solutions in conjunction with the building of a new warehouse     2010 Martin Winckler-Carlsen, Mikael Blommé
To reduce H&M’s carbon dioxide emissions by 10% relative to the size of the company measured in terms of sales 31 December 2009 Ingrid Schullström, Mikael Blommé
Reduction of energy use in stores by 20% per square metre 2020 Ingrid Schullström, Mikael Blommé
At least 20% of energy use in stores from renewable energy sources 2020 Ingrid Schullström, Mikael BlomméH&M Sustainability Report 2008 83Global social tar Gets 2009  
Targe T 1: Secure F aP 2.0 
methods and tools
Focus area: activities:
Secure auditing method Ensuring audit quality and internal comparability by developing a benchmarking tool during 2009
Secure all internal CoC-routines in production 
officesDevelop internal audit tool and conduct internal audits globally to secure data quality
Auditor capacity building Provide training in already identified development areas such as communication and environmental requirements. Through auditor evaluation tool (developed 
2008) conduct gap-analysis and identify further auditor development areas. Parallel activity will be to develop training material on management system. H&M Sustainability Report 20088 84Global social t arGets 2009
Targe T II: r emed IaTIon o F cr ITIcal 
non-compliance issues
region / issue related question F rom our audit 
questionnairenon-compliance 2008 goal 2009 activity related responsible
emea
Overtime Is overtime compensated according to 
the law? 58% reduce non-compliance to 41%Via close cooperation with our most important suppliers, aim for better transparency and thereby 
address and improve overtime compensation. In 
parallel educate the workers in their rights (e.g. 
overtime compensation).Pelle Karlsson (Regional CoC-
Coordinator Europe)
Minimum wage Does the basic salary for every 
employee amount to at least the 
minimum wage for normal working 
hours (including piece rate workers)?25% (rejection reason) reduce non-compliance to 20%Via capacity building of our most important suppliers’ CoC-organisations, reduce the no. of 
potential new production units that would fail an 
audit by breaching minimum wage requirement.Pelle Karlsson (Regional CoC-Coordinator Europe)
Wastewater treatment Does the wastewater treatment system meet requirements in local legislation 
and / or BSR (Business for Social 
Responsibility) guidelines whichever is 
the strictest?28% reduce non-
compliance to 14%Follow up on the corrective actions planned by suppliers based on the water data tests collected in 
2008 in order to fully meet BSR requirements.Pelle Karlsson (Regional CoC-
Coordinator Europe)H&M Sustainability Report 20088 85Global social t arGets 2009
Targe T II: r emed IaTIon o F cr ITIcal 
non-compliance issues
region / issue related question F rom our audit 
questionnairenon-compliance 2008 goal 2009 activity related responsible
south a sia
Overtime Are monthly overtime hours within the 
legal limit?72% reduce non-compliance by  
ten units to 68%Conduct root-cause analysis and jointly with our 10 
most important suppliers remediate the underlying 
reasons of excessive overtime.Basirun Nabi (Regional  
CoC-Coordinator Asia)
LeaveIs sick leave granted according to the law? 13%
reduce non-
compliance until 
2010 As the percent findings in this area currently is low, we will further raise workers awareness on their 
rights (and thereby encourage them to demand 
leave) and simultaneously involve management in 
ensuring that policies and routines for sick-leave, 
maternity-leave and annual-leave are kept to. Due to 
this raised awareness we expect to see an increase 
of findings in 2009. In 2010 numbers are expected to 
decrease as applications should be granted by 
factory management.Basirun Nabi (Regional  CoC-Coordinator Asia)
Is annual leave granted and paid for according to law?22% Basirun Nabi (Regional  CoC-Coordinator Asia)
Grievance / communication systemsIs there a grievance system in place in the factory?67% reduce to 41% (not a compliance 
requirement)Share the best practises of workers' direct needs 
(2008) with an extended numbers of suppliers.Basirun Nabi (Regional  CoC-Coordinator Asia)
Chemical handling Have the workers regularly handling 
chemicals been trained in safe 
chemical handling?64% reduce non-
compliance to 32%Knowledge of proper chemical handling is essential to avoid severe health risks of the workers. Further 
training to most important suppliers.Basirun Nabi (Regional  
CoC-Coordinator Asia)
Wastewater treatment Does the wastewater treatment system meet requirements in local legislation 
and / or BSR (Business for Social 
Responsibility) guidelines whichever is 
the strictest?16% reduce non-
compliance to 8%Follow up on the corrective actions planned by suppliers based on the water data tests collected in 
2008 in order to fully meet BSR requirements.Basirun Nabi (Regional  
CoC-Coordinator Asia)H&M Sustainability Report 20088 86Global social t arGets 2009
Targe T II: r emed IaTIon o F cr ITIcal 
non-compliance issues
region / issue related question F rom our audit 
questionnairenon-compliance 2008 goal 2009 activity related responsible
Far e ast
Correct wages Are correct wages paid regularly and on 
time?25% reduce non-compliance to 13%After reaching transparency with our suppliers, we will continue our analysis of attendance records and 
wage-documents to understand actual wage levels. 
We will thereafter engage our suppliers in capacity 
building and present successful business cases.Tobias Fischer (Regional  
CoC-Coordinator Far East)
Contracts Do all workers have an employment 
contract? 41% reduce non-compliance to 21%Engage our suppliers in training and implementation of recruitment systems.Tobias Fischer (Regional  CoC-Coordinator Far East)
Grievance / communication systemsIs there a grievance system in place in the factory?93% reduce to 47%  (not a compliance 
requirement)Assist in the development of grievance systems in 
suppliers' factories and involve a selected number of 
suppliers in an "External Hotline" project.Tobias Fischer (Regional  
CoC-Coordinator Far East)
Wastewater treatment Does the wastewater treatment system 
meet requirements in local legislation and / or BSR (Business for Social 
Responsibility) guidelines whichever is 
the strictest?13% reduce non-compliance to 6%Follow up on the corrective actions planned by suppliers based on the water data tests collected in 2008 in order to fully meet BSR requirements.Tobias Fischer (Regional  CoC-Coordinator Far East)
Health & safety systemsAre all basic safety requirements met? 21% reduce non-compliance to 8%To maintain and improve basic safety management systems, have factories go through Health & Safety training and monitor the agreed progress. In Shanghai, 
training will be done through internal capacity. In 
Guangzhou external resources will be used.Tobias Fischer (Regional  CoC-Coordinator Far East)
Chemical handling Have the workers regularly handling chemicals been trained in safe 
chemical handling?84% reduce non-
compliance to 42%In applicable production units will in addition focus on chemical handling training. Tobias Fischer (Regional  CoC-Coordinator Far East)H&M Sustainability Report 2008 87Follow-up  on 2008
Global environmental
Targe Ts
Outc Ome: cO mpleted  In pr Ogress  tImeframe set later than 2008  nO t cOmpleted 
shOrt-term g Oals OutcO me cOmments tImeframe respO nsIble
Evaluate results from pre-study on how various technical aid can 
reduce the need to travel (while at the same time improve 
collaboration)Pre-study performed. Q1, 2008 IT department + cross-
functional steering group
Initiate pilot test with video conferencing equipment at selected 
frequent travel destinationsIdentified audio and web conferences as the most efficient solutions 
by now. Find more information in the related chapter of this report. 
Pilot not conducted due to cost reasons.Q2, 2008 IT department + cross-
functional steering group
To reduce H&M’s carbon dioxide emissions by 10% relative to the 
size of the company measured in terms of salesOngoing. 31 December 
2009Ingrid Schullström,  Mikael Blommé
To test out energy-efficient solutions in conjunction with the building 
of a new warehouse Ongoing. 2010 Logistics department,  
Mikael Blommé
Reduction of energy use in stores by 20% per square metre OngoingThis target is part of our commitment to the ERRT ‘Retail Declaration 
on energy efficiency and renewable energy’, to be met by 2020.2020 Ingrid Schullström,  
Mikael Blommé
At least 20% of energy use in stores from renewable energy sources 
OngoingThis target is part of our commitment to the ERRT ‘Retail Declaration 
on energy efficiency and renewable energy’, to be met by 2020.2020 Ingrid Schullström,  
Mikael Blommé
Communicate information material on environmentally adapted 
garment care Information material has been published on www.hm.com Q2 2008 Sanna Hallqvist,  
Madelene EricssonH&M Sustainability Report 2008 88Follow-up  on 2008
Global environmental
Targe Ts
Outc Ome: cO mpleted  In pr Ogress  tImeframe set later than 2008  nO t cOmpleted 
shOrt-term g Oals OutcO me cOmments tImeframe respO nsIble
Increase the number of Eco Flower garments for 2008 by 50%  
to 1,500,000 pieces Related new target set for 2009. 2008 Charlotte Tholsby,  Madelene Ericsson
Facilitate the management of hazardous waste in stores
The test period in the two stores is completed. Test period in 2008 in two 
stores in SwedenMaria Lantz,  
Madelene Ericsson
Release re-assessed and revised environmental requirements for  
the purchase of shop-fitting and décor materials as well as  
office suppliesThe Environmental Guideline booklet was completed and presented to the interior and building dept. in October 2008. Q2, 2009 Joachim Hellman,  Madelene Ericsson 
Test inclusion of transitional cotton into our garments with  
50 tonnes of transitional cotton
Target has not been met, but new target set for Q1, 2010. 2008 Henrik Lampa
Identify a method for monitoring the water footprint of our  supply chain Ongoing. 2008 Henrik Lampa
Identify a method for monitoring the carbon footprint of our  supply chain Ongoing. 2008 Henrik Lampa, 
Mikael Blommé
Monitor the carbon footprint of our supply chain Not yet initiated. Target postponed to 2010. See related new target. 2009 Henrik Lampa, Mikael Blomméfollow-up  on 2008  
global social
targets
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 89Outc Ome: cO mpleted  In pr Ogress  tImeframe set later than 2008  nO t cOmpleted 
target OutcO me cOmments tImeframe respO nsIble
Update and revise the Code so as to cover a broader area of H&M’s 
activitiesInternally finalised, to be reviewed by stakeholders and launched during 2009.Ingrid Schullström
Support to suppliers on taking ownership of compliance improvement and implementation by developing a supplier guidelines handbook
Distributed in 2008. Furthermore, translated into English, Turkish, Chinese and Romanian so far.Nanna Engvist,  Maritha Lorentzon
Initiate audits of fabric suppliers through education, scoping the 
areas of improvement, ETP , auditing
Identified those fabric producers we have the closest relation with.  
An assessment was done during 2008 with around 20 fabric units. 
Identified that environmental issues and chemical handling are  
the most urgent ones. We will develop strategy and action point  
to extend support. Sofie Nyström
Refine and revise audit tool, FAP 2.0, with broader and deeper focus on workers’ rights FAP 2.0 finalised. Introduced via internal training in November 2008 
and taken into practice in all production countries January 2009 (in 
progress).Maritha Lorentzon
Staff development and recruitmentDevelop education package on
- how we communicate with our suppliers
- issues not directly linked to roll-out of FAP 2.0Developed auditor profiles (the roles within the CoC team) and defined 
the organisational structure of the CoC team.
Education packages beside our ongoing training materials
to be further developed in 2009 (Link to auditor training chapter).Lars-Åke Bergqvist,  
Maritha Lorentzonfollow-up  on 2008  
global social
targets
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 90Outc Ome: cO mpleted  In pr Ogress  tImeframe set later than 2008  nO t cOmpleted 
target OutcO me cOmments tImeframe respO nsIble
Identify brands collaborations and multi-stakeholder dialogue
- MFAF
- BFC
- FLA
- BSR
- Brand groups
- Global Compact
- ABG
- Evaluate possibilities for joint audits and remediations initiativesWe have identified our most important collaborations and will now 
focus on deepening and improving our cooperation and input with 
these chosen partners/initiatives. (Link to membership chapter and 
capacity building)Maritha Lorentzon
Increase workers’ rights awareness through the following projects:
Short Film: Rights Awareness (Bangladesh)
GEX committee members (India)
Workers Welfare Committee (Turkey)
Sowkyam Foundation (India)
Chemical Training (India, China)
UNICEF HIV/AIDS (Cambodia)Short Film: Rights Awareness 
GEX committee members 
Workers Welfare Committee 
Sowkyam Foundation 
> see capacity building (link)
Chemical Training 
> see our environment (link)
UNICEF HIV/AIDS 
> see community investment (link)Local CoC Managers and 
Regional Coordinatorsfollow-up  on 2008  
global social
targets
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 91Outc Ome: cO mpleted  In pr Ogress  tImeframe set later than 2008  nO t cOmpleted 
target OutcO me cOmments tImeframe respO nsIble
Needs-based supplier education via identified service providers and 
projectsOngoing.Please see the capacity building chapter for more information.Local CoC Managers and Regional Coordinators
Through networking identify the priorities from the worker’s 
perspective. Coordinate and collect information from local networks
Conducted global mapping of existing local networks during 2008. 
Identified stakeholders (NGOs, governmental bodies, suppliers, 
unions, other companies) present and improved focusing our  
efforts. Identified that networking is, and needs to be, a continuous 
part of our work.Local CoC Managers and 
Regional Coordinators
Cooperate with UNICEF to take action on children’s situation in the cotton growing industry in Tamil Nadu, based on research report 
conducted by UNICEFPlease see the community investment chapter for more information. Anna GeddaH&M Sustainability Report 2008 92IndIcator descr IptIonextent of 
report Ing  
coverage Locat Ion (chapter) annua L report ref. I f any ungc pr IncIpLes notesoutcome: fu LL coverage  part IaL coverage  no coverage  not re Levant  GRI INDEX
and application level
profIL e
1. strategy and ana LysIs
1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of 
the organisation about the relevance of 
sustainability to the organisation and its strategy.Our Business/Interview with our CEO and CSR ManagerInterview with our CEOH&M compiled the 2008 Sustainability Report by taking into consideration the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. 
With the GRI G3 guidelines issued in 2006, the GRI has formalised the old principle of reporting ‘in accordance with’ the GRI. There are now three levels of application which are dependent on the different levels of 
disclosure across Profile, Management Approach and Performance Indicators. H&M has achieved a ‘self declared’ level B of application. 
A table displaying disclosure against the indicators from the Apparel & Footwear Sector Supplement is also shown here. The Apparel & Footwear Sector Supplement Working Group has assessed each 
performance indicator and has provided some recommendations on how they could be applied in an incremental manner. Although these indicators have not been finalised, H&M have chosen to disclose 
against them. The indicators are marked by the Working Group with three sets of “do-ability criteria” which are:
1: Feasible to report for most and would be at the entry point for new reporters.
2: Normative and would be at a medium do-ability level.
3: Likely to be included in reports by best reporters, but challenging in terms of data collection and would not be expected to be reported by new reporters.
The following key has been used to show the extent of report coverage in both tables:background to the gri g3 guidelinesH&M Sustainability Report 2008 93IndIcator descr IptIonextent of 
report Ing  
coverage Locat Ion (chapter) annua L report ref. I f any ungc pr IncIpLes notesoutcome: fu LL coverage  part IaL coverage  no coverage  not re Levant  GRI INDEX
1.2 Description of key impacts risks and opportunities. Our Business/From cotton to 
customer/Interview with our 
CEO and CSR ManagerAdministration Report –  
risks and uncertainties
2. organ IsatIona L profILe
2.1 Name of the organisation Throughout report Contact details
2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services. Our Business H&M in words and pictures
2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including 
main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries 
and joint ventures.Our Business Administration Report/Notes to the financial statements
2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters.
Global brand, global impact and reachH&M in words and pictures
2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries with either major 
operations or that are specifically relevant to the 
sustainability issues covered in the report.Our Business H&M in words and pictures
2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Administration Report/Notes to the financial statementsGRI INDEX
outcome: fu LL coverage  part IaL coverage  no coverage  not re Levant  
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 94IndIcator descr IptIonextent of 
report Ing  
coverage Locat Ion (chapter) annua L report ref. I f any ungc pr IncIpLes notes
2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, 
sectors served and types of customers/
beneficiaries).Our Business/Global brand, 
global impact and reachCountries in Detail: H&M  in words and pictures
2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation, including:
•  Number of employees;
•   Net sales (for private sector organisations) or net revenues (for public sector organisations);
•   Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organisations); and
•   Quantity of products or services provided.Our Colleagues/ 
Our Business/Global brand, 
global impact and reachH&M in words and pictures/
Administration Report
2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 
regarding size, structure or ownership.Our Business/Global brand, 
global impact and reachH&M in words and pictures/Administration Report
2.10 Awards received in the reporting period.
Our Business
3. report parameters
report profIL e
3.1 Reporting period (e.g. fiscal/calendar year)  for information provided. Our Business/ How we report
3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any).
Our Business/ How we reportGRI INDEX
outcome: fu LL coverage  part IaL coverage  no coverage  not re Levant  
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 95IndIcator descr IptIonextent of 
report Ing  
coverage Locat Ion (chapter) annua L report ref. I f any ungc pr IncIpLes notes
3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Our Business/ 
How we report
3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Our Business/ How we report
report s cope and Boundary
3.5 Process for defining report content
•   Determining materiality;
•   Prioritising topics within the report; and
•   Identifying stakeholders the organisation expects 
to use the report.Our Business/ Sustainability strategy
3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g. countries,  
divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities,  
joint ventures, suppliers).Our Business/ How we report
3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or 
boundary of the report.
8Our Business/ 
How we report/Performance
3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other 
entities that can significantly affect comparability 
from period to period and/or between organisations.GRI INDEX
outcome: fu LL coverage  part IaL coverage  no coverage  not re Levant  
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 96IndIcator descr IptIonextent of 
report Ing  
coverage Locat Ion (chapter) annua L report ref. I f any ungc pr IncIpLes notes
3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of 
calculations, including assumptions and techniques 
underlying estimations applied to the compilation of 
the Indicators and other information in the report.Our Business/ How we report/Performance
3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided in earlier reports, and the 
reasons for such restatement (e.g. mergers/
acquisitions, change of base years/periods,  
nature of business, measurement methods).Performance
3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods 
applied in the report.Our Business/ How we report/Performance
grI content I ndex
3.12Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report.
PerformanceGRI INDEX
outcome: fu LL coverage  part IaL coverage  no coverage  not re Levant  
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 97IndIcator descr IptIonextent of 
report Ing  
coverage Locat Ion (chapter) annua L report ref. I f any ungc pr IncIpLes notes
assurance
3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking 
external assurance for the report.Our Business/ 
How we report
4. governance, c omm Itments, and e ngagement
governance
4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including 
committees under the highest governance body 
responsible for specific tasks, such as setting 
strategy or organisational oversight.Corporate Governance Report
4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest 
governance body is also an executive officer  
(and, if so, their function within the organisation’s 
management and the reasons for this arrangement).Corporate Governance Report
4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the 
highest governance body that are independent  
and/or non-executive members.Corporate Governance ReportGRI INDEX
outcome: fu LL coverage  part IaL coverage  no coverage  not re Levant  
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 98IndIcator descr IptIonextent of 
report Ing  
coverage Locat Ion (chapter) annua L report ref. I f any ungc pr IncIpLes notes
4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to 
provide recommendations or direction to the highest 
governance body.Corporate Governance Report
4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers and 
executives (including departure arrangements), and 
the organisation’s performance (including social 
and environmental performance).Administration Report
4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body 
to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided.Corporate Governance Report
4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and 
expertise of the members of the highest governance 
body for guiding the organisation’s strategy on 
economic, environmental and social topics.Corporate Governance Report
4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to 
economic, environmental and social performance 
and the status of their implementation.Our Business/CSR strategy, Our Supply Chain/ 
Code of ConductGRI INDEX
outcome: fu LL coverage  part IaL coverage  no coverage  not re Levant  
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 99IndIcator descr IptIonextent of 
report Ing  
coverage Locat Ion (chapter) annua L report ref. I f any ungc pr IncIpLes notes
4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for 
overseeing the organisation’s identification and 
management of economic, environmental, and 
social performance, including relevant risks and 
opportunities, and adherence or compliance with 
internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, 
and principles.Our Business/Interview with 
our CEO and CSR Manager/
Sustainability strategy
4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect 
to economic, environmental, and social performance.Administration Report
comm Itments to e xterna L InItIatIves
4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary 
approach or principle is addressed by the 
organisation.Our Business/ Sustainability policy
4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and 
social charters, principles, or other initiatives to 
which the organisation subscribes or endorses.Our Business/Memberships, indices and awards
4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry 
associations) and/or national/international 
advocacy organisationsOur Business/Memberships, indices and awards. 
Throughout the reportGRI INDEX
outcome: fu LL coverage  part IaL coverage  no coverage  not re Levant  
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 100IndIcator descr IptIonextent of 
report Ing  
coverage Locat Ion (chapter) annua L report ref. I f any ungc pr IncIpLes notes
4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the 
organisation.Our Business/Memberships, indices and awards/
Sustainability Strategy/
Performance
4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage.
Our Business/Sustainability Strategy/Performance
4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by 
stakeholder group. Our Business/Sustainability 
Strategy
4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised 
through stakeholder engagement, and how the 
organisation has responded to those key topics and 
concerns, including through its reporting.Our Business/Sustainability 
Strategy/Performance
5. management a pproach and p erformance IndIcators
econom Ic performance IndIcators
aspect: e conomic p erformance
DMA Management Approach disclosures Our Business H&M in words and picturesGRI INDEX
outcome: fu LL coverage  part IaL coverage  no coverage  not re Levant  
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 101IndIcator descr IptIonextent of 
report Ing  
coverage Locat Ion (chapter) annua L report ref. I f any ungc pr IncIpLes notes
EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, 
including revenues, operating costs, employee 
compensation, donations and other community 
investments, retained earnings and payments to 
capital providers and governments.Administration Report
EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to 
climate change.Our Business   Principle 7
EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan 
obligations.Notes to the financial 
statements
EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. Not relevant
aspect: m arket p resence
EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage 
compared to local minimum wage at significant 
locations of operation. (Additional indicator.)Minimum wages are required 
to be applied to wherever 
H&M operates
EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of 
operation.GRI INDEX
outcome: fu LL coverage  part IaL coverage  no coverage  not re Levant  
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 102IndIcator descr IptIonextent of 
report Ing  
coverage Locat Ion (chapter) annua L report ref. I f any ungc pr IncIpLes notes
EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior 
management hired from the local community at 
locations of significant operation.H&M in words and pictures   Principle 6 Partially covered
aspect: Indirect e conomic Impacts c ore
EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure 
investments and services provided primarily for 
public benefit through commercial, in kind, or pro 
bono engagement.
EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect 
economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. 
(Additional indicator.)Our Business/Global brand, 
global impact and reach. 
Throughout the report
envIronmenta L performance IndIcators
DMA Management Approach disclosures Our Environment
aspect: m aterials
EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Our Environment/Cotton   Principle 8 Refers to the use of  organic cotton
EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled 
input materials.
aspect: e nergyGRI INDEX
outcome: fu LL coverage  part IaL coverage  no coverage  not re Levant  
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 103IndIcator descr IptIonextent of 
report Ing  
coverage Locat Ion (chapter) annua L report ref. I f any ungc pr IncIpLes notes
EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy 
source.Performance   Principle 8
EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Performance   Principle 8
EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. (Additional indicator.) Our Environment/Our Carbon Footprint   Principle 8, 9
EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions 
in energy requirements as a result of these 
initiatives. (Additional indicator.)Our Environment/Our Carbon Footprint   Principle 8, 9
EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption 
and reductions achieved. (Additional indicator.) Our Environment/Our Carbon 
Footprint. Performance  Principle 8, 9
aspect: Water
EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Partially in Our Environment/Water and wastewater   Principle 8 Information about water 
usage in wet production 
processes
EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal 
of water. (Additional indicator.)Partially in Our Environment/
Water and wastewater  Principle 8GRI INDEX
outcome: fu LL coverage  part IaL coverage  no coverage  not re Levant  
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 104IndIcator descr IptIonextent of 
report Ing  
coverage Locat Ion (chapter) annua L report ref. I f any ungc pr IncIpLes notes
EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled  
and reused. (Additional indicator.)Information about production 
wastewater quality available 
at Our Environment/ 
Water and wastewater
aspect: Biodiversity
EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed 
in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high 
biodiversity value outside protected areas.
EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, 
products and services on biodiversity in protected 
areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside 
protected areas.
EN13 Habitats protected or restored. (Additional 
indicator.)
EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for 
managing impacts on biodiversity. (Additional 
indicator.)Partially in Our Products/
product policy  Principle 8
EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national 
conservation list species with habitats in areas 
affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. 
(Additional indicator.)GRI INDEX
outcome: fu LL coverage  part IaL coverage  no coverage  not re Levant  
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 105IndIcator descr IptIonextent of 
report Ing  
coverage Locat Ion (chapter) annua L report ref. I f any ungc pr IncIpLes notes
aspect: e missions, e ffluents, and Waste
EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 
by weight.Our Environment/ 
Our Carbon Footprint. 
Performance  Principle 8
EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions  by weight. Our Environment/  
Our Carbon Footprint/
Performance  Principle 8
EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. (Additional indicator.) Our Environment/  
Our Carbon Footprint/
Performance  Principle 7, 8, 9
EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight.
EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by 
type and weight.
EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Partially in Our Environment/
Water and wastewater  Principle 8 Reference to wastewater quality in production
EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method.
EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills.GRI INDEX
outcome: fu LL coverage  part IaL coverage  no coverage  not re Levant  
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 106IndIcator descr IptIonextent of 
report Ing  
coverage Locat Ion (chapter) annua L report ref. I f any ungc pr IncIpLes notes
EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or 
treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of 
the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and 
percentage of transported waste shipped 
internationally. (Additional indicator.)
EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity 
value of water bodies and related habitats 
significantly affected by the reporting organisation’s 
discharges of water and runoff. (Additional 
indicator.)
aspect: p roducts and s ervices
EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of 
products and services, and extent of impact 
mitigation.Our Environment/ Our Products   Principle 7, 8, 9
EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging 
materials that are reclaimed by category.
aspect: c ompliance
EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number 
of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with 
environmental laws and regulations.
aspect: t ransportGRI INDEX
outcome: fu LL coverage  part IaL coverage  no coverage  not re Levant  
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 107IndIcator descr IptIonextent of 
report Ing  
coverage Locat Ion (chapter) annua L report ref. I f any ungc pr IncIpLes notes
EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting 
products and other goods and materials used for 
the organisation’s operations, and transporting 
members of the workforce. (Additional indicator.)Our Environment/Transporting Goods   Principle 8
aspect: o verall
EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and 
investments by type. (Additional indicator.)
LaBour p ract Ices and d ecent Work 
performance IndIcators
DMA Management Approach disclosures Our Colleagues
aspect: e mployment
LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment 
contract, and region.Our Colleagues/ Our Approach
LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region.
LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are 
not provided to temporary or part-time employees, 
by major operations. (Additional indicator.)
aspect: Labour/ management r elationsGRI INDEX
outcome: fu LL coverage  part IaL coverage  no coverage  not re Levant  
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 108IndIcator descr IptIonextent of 
report Ing  
coverage Locat Ion (chapter) annua L report ref. I f any ungc pr IncIpLes notes
LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective 
bargaining agreements.Our Colleagues/Labour relations and dialogue   Principle 1, 3
LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in 
collective agreements.
aspect: o ccupational h ealth and s afety
LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal 
joint management-worker health and safety 
committees that help monitor and advise on 
occupational health and safety programmes. 
(Additional indicator.)
LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 
and absenteeism, and number of work-related 
fatalities by region.
LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, and 
risk-control programmes in place to assist 
workforce members, their families, or community 
members regarding serious diseases.Partially in Our Supply Chain/Capacity building. Our 
ProductsOur Products: in reference to 
product safety
LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. (Additional 
indicator.) Our Colleagues/Labour 
relations and dialogue  Principle 1GRI INDEX
outcome: fu LL coverage  part IaL coverage  no coverage  not re Levant  
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 109IndIcator descr IptIonextent of 
report Ing  
coverage Locat Ion (chapter) annua L report ref. I f any ungc pr IncIpLes notes
aspect: t raining and e ducation
LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by 
employee category.Our Colleagues/Training  
and Development
LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of 
employees and assist them in managing career 
endings. (Additional indicator.)Our Colleagues/Training  and Development
LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. 
(Additional indicator.) Our Colleagues/Training  
and Development
aspect: d iversity and e qual o pportunity
LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender,  
age group, minority group membership, and other 
indicators of diversity.Partially in Our Colleagues/Equality and Diversity   Principle 1, 6 Breakdown of board  
and other management 
categories according  to gender
LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category.
Our Colleagues/Our Approach. Performance   Principle 1, 6
human rIghts p erformance IndIcatorsGRI INDEX
outcome: fu LL coverage  part IaL coverage  no coverage  not re Levant  
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 110IndIcator descr IptIonextent of 
report Ing  
coverage Locat Ion (chapter) annua L report ref. I f any ungc pr IncIpLes notes
DMA Management Approach disclosures
aspect: Investment and p rocurement p ractices
HR1 Percentage and total number of significant 
investment agreements that include human rights 
clauses or that have undergone human rights 
screening.Our Supply Chain   Principle 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 Total numbers available
HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors 
that have undergone screening on human rights and 
actions taken.Our Supply Chain. 
Performance  Principle 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 Total numbers available
HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that 
are relevant to operations, including the percentage 
of employees trained. (Additional indicator.)Our Colleagues/CSR trainings/Our Supply Chain/
Auditor training  Principle 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6
aspect: n on-discrimination
HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. Performance   Principle 1, 2, 6 Relating to Our Supply Chain
aspect: f reedom of a ssociation and c ollective 
Bargaining c oreGRI INDEX
outcome: fu LL coverage  part IaL coverage  no coverage  not re Levant  
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 111IndIcator descr IptIonextent of 
report Ing  
coverage Locat Ion (chapter) annua L report ref. I f any ungc pr IncIpLes notes
HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise 
freedom of association and collective bargaining 
may be at significant risk, and actions taken to 
support these rights.Our Supply Chain/Our Colleagues/Performance   Principle 1, 2, 3
aspect: c hild Labour
HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for 
incidents of child labour, and measures taken to 
contribute to the elimination of child labour.Our Supply Chain/Our Community Investments/
Performance  Principle 1, 2, 5Relating to Our Supply Chain
aspect: f orced and c ompulsory Labour
HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for 
incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and 
measures to contribute to the elimination of forced 
or compulsory labour.Our Supply Chain/Performance   Principle 1, 3, 4Relating to Our Supply Chain
aspect: s ecurity p ractices
HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the 
organisation’s policies or procedures concerning 
aspects of human rights that are relevant to 
operations. (Additional indicator.)
aspect: Indigenous r ightsGRI INDEX
outcome: fu LL coverage  part IaL coverage  no coverage  not re Levant  
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 112IndIcator descr IptIonextent of 
report Ing  
coverage Locat Ion (chapter) annua L report ref. I f any ungc pr IncIpLes notes
HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving 
rights of indigenous people and actions taken.Performance   Principle 1, 2 Relating to Our Supply Chain
socIety p erformance IndIcators
DMA Management Approach disclosures
aspect: c ommunity
SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any 
programmes and practices that assess and manage 
the impacts of operations on communities, including 
entering, operating, and exiting.Our Community Investments
aspect: c orruption
SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks related to corruption.
SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s 
anti-corruption policies and procedures.Our Colleagues/Code of Ethics   Principle 10
SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Our Colleagues/Code of Ethics   Principle 10
aspect: p ublic p olicyGRI INDEX
outcome: fu LL coverage  part IaL coverage  no coverage  not re Levant  
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 113IndIcator descr IptIonextent of 
report Ing  
coverage Locat Ion (chapter) annua L report ref. I f any ungc pr IncIpLes notes
SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public 
policy development and lobbying.Our Colleagues/Code of Ethics   Principle 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10
SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions 
by country (Additional indicator.) Our Colleagues/Code of 
Ethics  Principle 10
aspect: a nti-competitive Behaviour
SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly practices and 
their outcomes. (Additional indicator.)
aspect: c ompliance c ore
SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number 
of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with 
laws and regulations.
product r espons IBILI ty performance 
IndIcators
DMA Management Approach disclosures
aspect: c ustomer h ealth and s afetyGRI INDEX
outcome: fu LL coverage  part IaL coverage  no coverage  not re Levant  
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 114IndIcator descr IptIonextent of 
report Ing  
coverage Locat Ion (chapter) annua L report ref. I f any ungc pr IncIpLes notes
PR1 Life-cycle stages in which health and safety 
impacts of products and services are assessed  
for improvement, and percentage of significant 
products and services categories subject to  
such procedures.Partially in Our Products   Principle 1
PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health 
and safety impacts of products and services during 
their life-cycle, by type of outcomes. (Additional 
indicator.)
aspect: p roduct and s ervice Labelling c ore
PR3 Type of product and service information required by 
procedures and percentage of significant products 
and services subject to such information 
requirements.
PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with 
regulations and voluntary codes concerning product 
and service information and labelling, by type of 
outcomes. (Additional indicator.)
PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including 
results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 
(Additional indicator.)Partially in Our ProductsGRI INDEX
outcome: fu LL coverage  part IaL coverage  no coverage  not re Levant  
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 115IndIcator descr IptIonextent of 
report Ing  
coverage Locat Ion (chapter) annua L report ref. I f any ungc pr IncIpLes notes
aspect: m arketing c ommunications
PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards  
and voluntary codes related to marketing 
communications, including advertising, promotion 
and sponsorship.Our Products/Customer 
communication
PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning 
marketing communications, including advertising, 
promotion and sponsorship by type of outcomes.
aspect: c ustomer p rivacy
PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding 
breaches of customer privacy and losses of 
customer data. (Additional indicator.)
aspect: c ompliance
PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-
compliance with laws and regulations concerning 
the provision and use of products and services.H&M Sustainability Report 2008 116aspect dIscLosure do-aBILI tyextent of 
report Ing  
coverage Locat Ion (chapter) notesoutcome: fu LL coverage  part IaL coverage  no coverage  not re Levant  
strategy and a naLysIs
appare L and f ootWear s ector s pecIfIc 
commentary on g 3 strategy and a naLysIs
commentary on 1.2
Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities:
Where applicable, this should include an assessment of 
supply chain performance.
cross- cuttIng c ommentary
appare L and f ootWear s ector s pecIfIc
Capacity Building Commentary for “Training and Education” in the 
Environment, Labour, Human Rights, Society and Product 
Responsibility Disclosure on Management Approach 
sections: This guidance applies to employees internal to 
the reporting organisation. Indicator AF5 refers to training 
and education programmes in workplaces within the 
reporting organisation’s supply chain.Our Colleagues/Training and development, Our Supply Chain /
Auditor training, Our ProductsGRI INDEX
apparel & Footwear s ector 
Suppl EmENtoutcome: fu LL coverage  part IaL coverage  no coverage  not re Levant  
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 117GRI INDEX
apparel & Footwear s ector 
Suppl EmENt
suppLy chaIn standards and p ract Ices s ectIon
appare L and f ootWear s ector s pecIfIc 
dIscLosure on m anagement a pproach
Code of Conduct AF1. Code of Conduct content and coverage. ** 1 Our Supply Chain/Code of Conduct
Audit Process AF2. Parties and personnel engaged in Code of Conduct 
compliance function.**1 Our business/Our Supply Chain
Audit Process AF3. Compliance audit process.** 1 Our Supply Chain – Auditing and 
compliance
Grievance Procedures AF4. Policy and procedures for receiving, investigating and responding to grievances and complaints.**1 (own performance)/  
3 (own plus supplier 
performance)Our Supply Chain (throughout). 
Auditing and compliance/Our 
Colleagues/Our approach
Capacity Building AF5. Strategy and scope of efforts to strengthen capacity of management, workers and other staff to improve in 
social and environmental performance.**3
Our Supply Chain/Capacity building
Business Integration AF6. Policies for supplier selection, management and 
termination.**1 Our business. Our Supply Chainaspect dIscLosure do-aBILI tyextent of 
report Ing  
coverage Locat Ion (chapter) notesoutcome: fu LL coverage  part IaL coverage  no coverage  not re Levant  
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 118aspect dIscLosure do-aBILI tyextent of 
report Ing  
coverage Locat Ion (chapter) notesGRI INDEX
apparel & Footwear s ector 
Suppl EmENt
appare L and f ootWear s ector s pecIfIc 
performance I ndIcators
Code of Conduct AF7. Number and location of workplaces covered by  
Code of Conduct.**1 Our Supply Chain. Performance
Audit Process AF8. Number of audits conducted and percentage of workplaces audited.**2
Our Supply Chain/Audit findings and progress. Performance
Non-compliance findings AF9. Incidents of non-compliance with legal requirements or collective bargaining agreements on wages.**1
Performance
Non-compliance findings AF10. Incidents of non-compliance with overtime standards.**1
Performance
Non-compliance findings AF11. Incidents of non-compliance with standards on pregnancy and maternity rights.**1
Performance
Non-compliance findings AF12. Incidents of the use of child labour.** 1 Performance
Non-compliance findings AF13. Incidents of non-compliance with standards on 
gender discrimination.**1 Performance
Non-compliance findings AF14. Incidents of non-compliance with Code of 
Conduct.**2 Performance
Non-compliance findings AF15. Analysis of data from code compliance audits.** 2 Performanceoutcome: fu LL coverage  part IaL coverage  no coverage  not re Levant  
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 119aspect dIscLosure do-aBILI tyextent of 
report Ing  
coverage Locat Ion (chapter) notesGRI INDEX
apparel & Footwear s ector 
Suppl EmENt
Remediation AF16. Remediation practices to address non-compliance 
findings.**2 Our Supply Chain
Business Integration AF17. Actions to identify and mitigate business practices that affect code Compliance.**3
Our Supply Chain/Our approach to purchasing, suppliers and the 
production chain
envIronmenta L sectIon
appare L and f ootWear s ector s pecIfIc 
dIscLosure on m anagement a pproach
Materials AF18. Programmes to replace organic-based adhesives 
and primers with water-based adhesives and primers.2Note: this 
disclosure applies 
primarily to 
non-manufacturing 
organisationsPartially covered in Our Environment/Chemicals
Materials Practices to source safer alternative substances to those on the restricted substances list, including description of 
associated management systems.2
Partially covered in Our 
Environment/Chemicals. Our 
Products/Restricting hazardous 
chemicalsoutcome: fu LL coverage  part IaL coverage  no coverage  not re Levant  
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 120aspect dIscLosure do-aBILI tyextent of 
report Ing  
coverage Locat Ion (chapter) notesGRI INDEX
apparel & Footwear s ector 
Suppl EmENt
Materials Commentary on EN1
Materials used by weight or volume: 
–  Including use of pumice, stones and sand under 
Compilation 2.1 on “Associated process materials
–  Reporting on pumice, stones, and sand by weight  under Compilation 2.3.2
Materials AF20. List of environmentally preferable materials used in 
apparel and footwear products.2 Our Environment/Cotton
Energy AF21. Amount of energy consumed and percentage of the energy that is from renewable sources.1
Our Environment/Our Carbon Footprint. Performance
Emissions, Effluents and Waste Commentary on EN21Total water discharge by quality and destination:
For Footwear: Reporting on total chromium discharges 
under Compilation 2.3.
For Apparel: Reporting on the discharge of antimony, 
arsenic, cadmium, chromium, cobalt, copper, cyanide, 
lead, mercury, nickel and zinc under Compilation 2.3. To 
be following the appropriate International Organization for 
Standardization (ISO) analytical method or its equivalent.1
Partially covered in Our 
Environment – Wastewater/
Chemicals
Emissions, Effluents and Waste Commentary on EN22
Total weight of waste by type and disposal method:
Report on pumice, stones and sand under Compilation 2.11outcome: fu LL coverage  part IaL coverage  no coverage  not re Levant  
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 121aspect dIscLosure do-aBILI tyextent of 
report Ing  
coverage Locat Ion (chapter) notesGRI INDEX
apparel & Footwear s ector 
Suppl EmENt
Products and Services Commentary on EN26
Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products 
and services, and extent of impact mitigation:
In addition to Compilation 2.2, report on specific 
programmes to reduce environmental impact of products, 
including but not limited to manufacturing, product use 
and packaging use at the design and conceptualisation 
stages. Report also on the use of recycled materials and 
the recyclability of products and packaging. Report 
quantitatively where possible.2 Our Environment
socIaL sectIon
appare L and f ootWear s ector s pecIfIc 
commentary on g 3 LaBour dI scLosure on 
management approach. a ppare L and f ootWear 
organ IsatIons shou Ld IncLude the fo LLoWIng 
When report Ing aga Inst the re Levant 
dIscLosure on management approach.
Employment Include the use of foreign migrant workers Our Supply Chain/PerformanceH&M Sustainability Report 2008 122aspect dIscLosure do-aBILI tyextent of 
report Ing  
coverage Locat Ion (chapter) notesoutcome: fu LL coverage  part IaL coverage  no coverage  not re Levant  GRI INDEX
apparel & Footwear s ector 
Suppl EmENt
appare L and f ootWear s ector s pecIfIc LaBour 
dIscLosure on management approach
Employment AF22. Policy and practices regarding the use of 
employees with non-permanent and non-fulltime 
status.**2 Partially covered in Our Colleagues
Employment AF23. Policy regarding the use of home working.** 2 Our Supply Chain/Home working
Employment AF24. Policy on the use and selection of labour brokers, including adherence to relevant ILO Conventions.**2
Our Supply Chain/Code of Conduct/
Home working
Wages and hours AF25. Policy and practices on wage deductions that are not mandated by law.**1
Our Supply Chain/Code of Conduct
Wages and hours AF26. Policy on working hours, including definition of overtime and actions to prevent excessive and forced 
overtime.**1
Our Supply Chain/Code of Conduct
Diversity and Equal Opportunities AF27. Policy and actions to protect the pregnancy and maternity rights of women workers.**1
Our Supply Chain/Code of Conductoutcome: fu LL coverage  part IaL coverage  no coverage  not re Levant  
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 123aspect dIscLosure do-aBILI tyextent of 
report Ing  
coverage Locat Ion (chapter) notesGRI INDEX
apparel & Footwear s ector 
Suppl EmENt
appare L and f ootWear s ector s pecIfIc LaBour 
performance I ndIcators and commentary on  
g3 IndIcators
Employment AF28. Percentage of foreign migrant workers as a portion 
of total workforce, broken down by region.1Note: this 
indicator applies 
primarily to 
organisations that 
own or operate 
one or more manufacturing 
facilities. 
Labour/Management Relations AF29. Percentage of workplaces where there is one or 
more independent trade union(s), broken down by: 
– Workplaces with a collective bargaining agreement 
–  Workplaces without a collective bargaining agreement
Also provide information broken down by country.3 Partially covered in Our Colleagues/Labour relations and dialogue
Labour/Management Relations AF30. Percentage of workplaces where, in the absence of 
a trade union, there are worker-management committees, 
broken down by country.3outcome: fu LL coverage  part IaL coverage  no coverage  not re Levant  
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 124aspect dIscLosure do-aBILI tyextent of 
report Ing  
coverage Locat Ion (chapter) notesGRI INDEX
apparel & Footwear s ector 
Suppl EmENt
Occupational Health and Safety Commentary on LA 7.
Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days  
and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 
by region:
–  Include health issues associated with reduced lung 
function due to dust in “Occupational disease rate” 
under Compilation 2.4.
–  Include risk assessments and preventative measures for accidents and injuries under Compilation 2.7.1
Occupational Health and Safety AF31. Initiatives and programmes to respond to, reduce 
and prevent the occurrence of musculoskeletal disorders.2
appare L and f ootWear s ector s pecIfIc 
commentary on human r Ights dI scLosure on 
management approach
Non-discrimination The treatment of foreign migrant workers Our Supply Chain/Code of Conduct
Abolition of Child Labour Young workers as recognised by ILO Convention 182 2 Our Supply Chain/Code of Conduct H&Ms policy against child labour is 
based on ILO convention 138outcome: fu LL coverage  part IaL coverage  no coverage  not re Levant  
H&M Sustainability Report 2008 125aspect dIscLosure do-aBILI tyextent of 
report Ing  
coverage Locat Ion (chapter) notesGRI INDEX
apparel & Footwear s ector 
Suppl EmENt
appare L and f ootWear s ector s pecIfIc soc Iety 
performance I ndIcators and commentary on  
g3 IndIcators
Community Investment AF33. Priorities in community investment strategy. 3 Our Community Investments
Community Investment AF34. Amount of investment in worker communities 
broken down by location.3 Our Community Investments
Public Policy Commentary on SO5.Public policy positions and participation in public policy 
development and lobbying:
Report public policy position on the inclusion of labour 
and environmental protections in trade agreements and 
the degree to which lobbying positions integrate 
considerations about the potential effects on workers, 
communities and organisations in the supply chain under Compilation 2.3.3
Partially covered in Our Business/Code of Ethics
** Reporting organisations must also include entities 
that they monitor (i.e. those defined as under significant 
influence by the Report Boundary guidance).
The UN Global Compact Principles can be found under: 
http://www.unglobalcompact.org/AbouttheGC/
TheTENPrinciples/index.htmlH&M Sustainability Report 2008 126UN global compact
principles
H&M is signatory to the United Nations Global Compact and supports the UN Millennium Development Goals.
The Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, 
environment and anti-corruption. By doing so, businesses, as a primary agent driving globalisation, can help ensure that markets, commerce, technology and finance advance in ways that benefit economies and 
societies everywhere.
The following table identifies where, within our Sustainability report, you can find information on how we work to support the 10 principles of the Global Compact. More information on the Global Compact can be found 
at www.unglobalcompact.org 
PrinciP le rePort r eference
Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed 
human rightsOur Supply ChainOur Business/Sustainability strategy
Our Community Investments
Our Colleagues – Equality/Labour Relations and dialogue
Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Our Supply Chain – Code of Conduct/Auditing and compliance/Audit findings and progress in 2008Performance
Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition  of the right to collective bargainingOur Supply Chain/Code of ConductOur Colleagues/Labour relations and dialogue
Performance
Principle 4 Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Our Supply Chain/Code of ConductPerformance
Principle 5 Effective abolition of child labour Our Supply Chain/Code of Conduct
Our Community Investments
PerformanceH&M Sustainability Report 2008 127PrinciP le rePort r eference
Principle 6 Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Our Supply Chain/Code of Conduct
Our Colleagues/Equality
Performance
Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Our EnvironmentOur Business/Sustainability Strategy
Our Products – Quality Assurance/Restricting Hazardous Chemicals
Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Our EnvironmentPerformance
Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Our Environment/Cotton
Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Our Colleagues/Code of EthicsUN global compact
principles