SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20152 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015TABLE OF CONTENTS
Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2015
INTRODUCTION
Interview with our CEO 3
About H&M Conscious 6
Key performance 7
Top news 8
The impacts along our value chain 9
How we work with  sustainability 11
Joint forces for solutions 12
OUR COMMITMENTS
Provide fashion for conscious customers 13
Choose and reward responsible partners 27
Be ethical 57
Be climate smart 75
Reduce, reuse, recycle 86
Use natural resources responsibly 96
Strengthen communities 111
INFORMATION
Auditor review statement 123
How we report 125
Get in touch 1303 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015INTRODUCTION
Interview with our CEO
How sustainable is H&M? 
I am really proud of what H&M has 
achieved and the positive impact we 
are making. We are leading the way 
today within several sustainability 
areas and I want us to continue to raise 
the bar. This is why I am so happy to 
see that sustainability is on the minds 
of so many people at H&M – every day 
and in all departments. When I hear 
colleagues discussing sustainability 
over coffee, I honestly feel we have come 
a long way. But it is a very complex issue 
and we are certainly not at the end yet 
– there is more to do, for us and the 
entire industry.
What does sustainability mean to you?
Just as when my grandfather founded 
H&M in 1947, we are a company with 
a long-term view and strong values. 
Our sustainability commitment is 
deeply rooted in our culture. We are 
well aware of what a gift it is to grow 
up and live in a democratic state that 
respects the environment and human 
rights, and it is in this spirit that we 
also want to operate globally – today 
and tomorrow. I believe that the future 
success of any company, including 
H&M, depends, amongst other things, lift people out of poverty and give them opportunities 
for a decent life. I would say it is extremely important 
that developing countries have access to international 
markets – how else can they make progress? For many 
countries, the textile industry is the first step on this 
path. H&M indirectly creates employment for over 
a million people, not least women, in the countries that 
manufacture our products. According to the World 
Bank, the textile industry is an important contributor 
to poverty reduction. But obviously, we cannot just 
lean back and be content with the fact that many jobs 
are being created. With our size and global presence, 
we are working to ensure that these jobs are good jobs 
and that the way we do business makes places better. 
So the question for us is not whether  we should be 
present in developing countries, but how  we do it. 
With that said, I want customers to feel proud of 
wearing clothes made in countries such as Bangla -
desh and Cambodia, but also to make sustainability 
demands on the companies they shop from.
What kind of results have you achieved within 
your Fair Living Wage strategy?
Wages are a very complex issue. This is why we seek 
guidance from wage experts such as global trade 
unions, the ILO and the Fair Wage Network. They 
believe our role as a brand and buyer is not to set the 
level of wages. Rather, wages should be negotiated 
between the parties on the labour market. We share 
this view. It would be devastating if foreign companies 
such as H&M determined wage levels in any countries. 
In addition, the fact that we share sup -
pliers with many other companies – 
both high-end and high street brands 
– makes collaboration even more 
important to be able to deal with this 
challenge. It is a shared responsibility.
We believe that everyone working in 
the textile industry, no matter what 
brand they are producing for, should 
earn a fair living wage. For H&M, this 
is indisputable and the reason why 
we have developed a global fair living 
wage strategy that I am really proud of. 
As collaboration is crucial, our strategy 
involves not only buyers such as H&M, 
but also suppliers, textile workers and 
national governments. We also colla -
borate with trade unions and NGOs, 
making it possible to contribute to 
change throughout the industry. And  
I am happy to say that our work within 
wages is showing progress. For exam -
ple, we signed a global framework  
agreement with the global trade union  
IndustriALL and the Swedish trade 
union IF Metall to further push de  vel-
opment forward. We share the belief 
that a well-functioning dialogue 
be tween the parties on the labour on efficient and long-term sustainabil -
ity work. We are genuinely interested 
in how healthy H&M will be for future 
generations.
What do you think about buying 
clothes from countries such as Bang -
ladesh and Cambodia?
Buying products made in developing 
countries is the most effective way to 4 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015INTRODUCTION
Interview with our CEO
market and the strengthening of 
workers’ rights to collective bargain -
ing are necessary for lasting improve -
ments for workers in the textile 
industry. 
All in all, we want to contribute to a 
well-functioning process that enables 
a fair living wage in every way we can. 
An important part of our fair living 
wage strategy is the Fair Wage Method, 
which has been developed by the inde -
pendent Fair Wage Network. It focuses 
on establishing good pay structures 
as well as strengthening the ability 
for workers to regularly negotiate 
wages fairly. 
What is your view on consumption? 
Consumption is necessary for jobs 
generating taxes that pay for schools, 
hospitals and infrastructure, but also 
for devel  oping countries to become 
part of international trade and there  by 
lift themselves out of poverty. If people 
stopped consuming, society would 
be affected negatively. H&M wants 
to continue growing, but we are 
committed to growing responsibly. 
Our growth must always be balanced 
by sustainable practices.Like other industries today, the fashion 
industry, however, is too dependent 
on natural resources and we need to 
change the way fashion is made. This 
is why we are so committed to our 
mission to reuse garments and close 
the loop on textiles. By collecting old 
clothes and turning them into new 
updated styles instead of letting them 
go to waste and by investing in new 
innovation and technology, we are 
taking important steps towards a cir -
cular economy. To further speed up 
this development, the H&M Founda -
tion has initiated the Global Change 
Award, an innovation challenge to 
find great new ideas that help close 
the loop on textiles.
We are currently in the process of 
setting new goals that will take our 
sustainability work to the next level, 
across various key sustainability top -
ics: circularity, climate, transparency, 
equality and fair jobs, for example. 
We do this in dialogue with our stake -
holders, experts, scientists and many 
others. We follow a science-based 
approach aimed at setting new stand -
ards for the fashion industry. POPULATION
ECONOMY
RESOURCES
CIRCULAR ECONOMY5 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015What are the main sustainability 
challenges for H&M and the fashion 
industry as a whole?
It is all about closing the loop by reus -
ing textile fibres, suppliers paying 
their employees a fair living wage and 
the ambition to increase transpar -
ency so customers can make informed 
choices. We have taken several impor -
tant steps towards a more transpar -
ent fashion industry. First, we have 
invested significant resources in 
developing our suppliers and build -
ing strong long-term relationships 
based on mutual trust and transpar -
ency. Second, we were amongst the 
first fashion companies to publish 
our supplier list to which, as the first 
fashion company, we have now added 
the second-tier suppliers. Third, this 
year’s reporting on our work related 
to human rights has been carried out 
in accordance with the UN Guiding 
Principles Reporting Framework. 
We are also committed to transpar -
ent reporting on our sustainability 
performance. One goal is to develop 
a consumer labelling system that 
allows customers to compare prod -
ucts’ sustainability performance, 
including between different brands. INTRODUCTION
Interview with our CEO
This work is done in collaboration within the Sus -
tainable Apparel Coalition, SAC. This will make it 
possible for customers to influence companies to a 
much greater extent than today. The more informed 
customers become, the more pressure they will put 
on companies to act sustainably. I have high hopes 
for this collaboration. 
You can only drive real change if you have a collabo -
rative mindset, no matter if it is collaboration about 
consumer labelling or something else. You cannot 
do it on your own; it is as simple as that. This is why 
we want to cooperate within the industry as well as 
across industry borders. This is why we treasure our 
dialogue with innovators and experts that help us 
develop new ideas. This is why we are so proud of 
our ongoing cooperation with stakeholders such as 
the ILO, local and global trade unions, the UN Global 
Compact, NGOs, the WWF and Solidaridad. All of 
this makes it possible for us to set new even more 
ambitious sustainability goals that will be released 
in 2016 and that we hope will lead the way to a sus -
tainable fashion future. 
Karl-Johan Persson, CEO, 
H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB, 
Stockholm, April 2016
6 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015INTRODUCTION
About H&M Conscious
At H&M, we love to bring fashion to 
the world in an exciting and conscious 
way. With all of our brands, we offer 
fashion at outstanding value – but not 
at any price. We are a value-driven and 
customer focused company and we want 
to help our customers explore their per -
sonal style. We celebrate differences 
and diversity, both outside and within 
of our own walls. 
We care for others and how we affect the world 
around us. To make people wear our products with 
pride we have to be conscious in all of our actions. 
These are the origins of H&M Consci  ous. With seven 
commitments at heart, H&M Conscious is the name 
for every  thing we do for a sustainable fashion future. 
It’s a mission built on passion, long-term thinking 
and teamwork. Everything we do needs to be eco  no-
mically, socially and environmentally sustainable. 
All highly interconnected. All important for our 
future growth. 
Our planet is facing scarcity issues on many fronts 
and too many people still live in poverty. Clean water, 
climate change, textile waste, wages and over  time in 
supplier factories are some of the key challenges in the 
textile industry, as well as in many other industries. “We want to use our size and scale to 
lead the change towards fully circular 
and truly sustainable fashion.”  
Anna Gedda, Head of SustainabilitySustainable fashion choices should 
be available, attractive and affordable 
– which is our starting point with H&M 
Conscious. We want to use our scale 
to bring about systemic change to the 
industry and across the lifecycle of our 
products. Together with our colleagues, 
customers, stakeholders, business 
partners and peers, we have the oppor -
tunity to bring about serious change  
– all the way from improving the live -
lihood of a cotton farmer to lowering 
the impacts from washing and drying 
our clothes. Ultimately, we want to 
make fashion sustainable and sustain -
ability fashion  able. 
Every year, hundreds of Conscious 
Actions – big and small, short- and long-  
term – are carried out to put our com -
mitments into practice. We are excited 
and proud of the Con  scious Actions we 
have taken and what we have achieved 
in this mission so far. However, we do 
know that there is still a long way to 
go, not only for us, but for the entire 
fashion industry. 
This is our 14th sustainability report 
and it outlines the progress of some of 
our most important Conscious Actions. It has been prepared in accordance with 
the GRI G4 guidelines (core) as well 
as the UN Guiding Principles Report -
ing Framework. Please see page 126 
for further details on how we report. 
We hope that you will find the reading 
interesting. 
Thank you for taking your time to learn 
more about H&M Conscious.7 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015INTRODUCTION
Key performance 2015
We significantly 
increased our use 
of renewable 
electricity  in our own 
operations to now represent 
78%  (2014: 27%) of our total 
electricity use globally.Since 2013, more than 
22,000  
tonnes of garments  
have been collected in our 
stores. That’s as much fabric 
as in about 100 million 
t-shirts .
SUSTAINABLE COTTON* IN %  
OF TOTAL COTTON USE
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
*Certified organic cotton, Better Cotton (BCI) 
or recycled cotton. 7.6%11.4%15.8%21.2%31.4%2020
(Goal)
100%PROGRESS IN FACTORY  
SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE  
(IN ICOC* SCORES)
*Code of Conduct Index.
Data collected during the period 1 Dec 2014 to 31 May 
2015 according to our previous Full Audit Programme 
(FAP). STRA TEGIC FACTORIES
ALL FACTORIES
2012 2013 2014 2015 201177.779.180.182.783.6
76.577.3 77.881.082.2
Some 1.3  
million pieces  
were made with closed 
loop material . 
That’s over 300% more 
compared with 2014.TONNES OF GARMENTS  
COLLECTED IN H&M STORES
2015 2014 20133,047t7,684t 12,341tSHARE OF SUSTAINABLY  
SOURCED MATERIALS
2012 9%2013 11%2014 14%
Included are all materials classified as conscious 
materials, such as certified organic or recycled fabrics, 
as well as Better Cotton.2015 20%
CHANGE IN TOTAL CO ₂e EMISSIONS TO 
PREVIOUS YEAR IN % (SCOPE 1+2) VS. 
GROWTH IN SALES (IN LOCAL CURRENCIES)
+12%+9%
+14%
-4%+11% +11%+9%
-56%
2014 2015 2013 2012NET SALES EMISSIONS8 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015INTRODUCTION
Top news 2015
We entered into a partnership  
with Ellen MacArthur Foundation  
to further develop towards a circular  
business model.
We donated nearly 
5 million  garments 
to charitable causes.We implemented a new stronger partnership 
approach, SIPP , to assess the sustainability 
performance  of our suppliers and support  
them even better.
All of our orders 
placed for products made 
with down  are now 
from certified sources 
and will hit stores 
in autumn/winter 2016.
All of our denim 
products  are now 
scored  by Jeanologia’s 
Environmental 
Impact Measure -
ment tool .Some 76%
of our colleagues 
are women . 
And so are 72%  
of our managers .
We are one of 
the biggest users  
of recyled polyester  
in the world.We signed a global framework 
agreement  with IndustriALL  and the Swedish union 
IF Metall  to promote sustainable industrial 
relations and collective bargaining  
in our supplier chain globally.More than 
16,000 new jobs  
were created in our 
group  in 2015 . 9 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015INTRODUCTION
The impacts along our value chain
We have stores and suppliers all 
around the world. Undoubtedly, 
we have an impact on the com -
munities and the environment 
around us. Embracing positive 
impacts along our value chain, 
and working hard to reduce 
negative ones, is the core of H&M 
Conscious. 
It is usually easier to control what 
happens in our own operations, 
but often this is not where the 
most critical impacts take place. 
Teaming up with others is there -
fore key to make the difference 
that matters the most.Our challenge : Sustainability starts at the 
drawing board. We need to create sustain -
able fashion without compromising on 
style, design, quality or price. Not only 
mini  mising what ends up on the cutting 
floor, but also knowing how our choice 
of materials and looks impact the environ -
ment and the people around us. Our challenge : Processing raw materials 
such as cotton is a part of the value chain 
that is often associated with concerns 
for working conditions and intense water 
and chemical use. By making the right 
choices at this stage, we can reduce such 
impacts significantly. Ultimately, we achieve 
a closed loop in which old garments can 
be recycled into new ones.Our challenge : From making yarn to final 
fabrics, there are concerns regarding water, 
chemicals and working conditions as well 
as greenhouse gas emissions. Generally 
speaking, we do not have direct business 
relationships with mills but we work with 
organisations such as Solidaridad and the 
Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC) 
to help mills improve their performance. 
We have started to integrate the fabric 
and yarn mills that are involved in making 
about 50% of our products into our supplier
 audit system, aiming for 60% by 2016. *Climate and water impacts are based on the estimated 
H&M value chain footprint from our total use of cotton, 
organic cotton, polyester and viscose in 2011/2012. 
For the footprint analysis, primary and secondary data 
has been used and the principles of the Lifecycle Assess -
ment methodology have been applied. The remaining 
5% climate impacts result from packaging. The water 
footprint is based on the Water Footprint Network’s  
methodology and includes green, blue and grey water 
footprint. Deviation from 100% due to rounding effects.
**For more information about our social impact, see 
p. 128 and the description of our salient human rights 
issues. 
DESIGN
OUR 
INFLUENCECLIMATE 
 IMPACT*WATER 
  IMPACT*SOCIAL
   IMPACT**
High 0% 0% LowRAW MATERIALS
OUR 
INFLUENCECLIMATE 
 IMPACT*WATER 
  IMPACT*SOCIAL
   IMPACT**
Medium 12% 87% HighFABRIC AND YARN PRODUCTION
OUR 
INFLUENCECLIMATE 
  IMPACT*WATER 
  IMPACT*SOCIAL
   IMPACT**
Medium 36% 6% HighCheck out where in the 
world the different stages of our value 
chain take place on an interactive 
world map here .10 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our challenge : Transport represents 
approximately 6% of the greenhouse 
gas emissions in a garment’s lifecycle. 
By choosing the right modes of transport, 
we can reduce this impact even further. 
And as an important customer to the 
transport companies we work with, 
we can set standards to influence their 
environmental consciousness. Our challenge : Together with our suppli -
ers we have made great improvements in 
developing high social and environmen -
tal standards. Achieving fair living wages, 
reducing overtime and ensuring workplace 
safety are key focus areas for the industry. 
To address these issues, we use our influ -
ence on our business partners to promote 
human rights. We don’t only monitor 
fac  tory compliance but also train our 
suppliers and their workers. We want to 
encourage industrial relations and social 
dialogue and consequently collaborate 
with organisations such as the Interna -
tional Labour Organisation (ILO), the Fair 
Wage Network and the Ethical Trading 
Initiative (ETI).Our challenge : We have over 3,900 stores 
across 61 markets. As we grow, enter new 
markets and employ new people, we need 
to make sure that we live up to our values 
across the organisation and ensure an 
inspiring and healthy working environ -
ment for our colleagues. Our customers 
rightfully expect high quality products 
and shopping experiences. As part of that, 
we ensure the data privacy of our custom -
ers and our colleagues, and advertise 
in a responsible way.Our challenge : Caring for our clothes at 
home represents about 26% of all of the 
greenhouse gas emissions in a garment’s 
life. Our challenge is to create affordable 
fashion that our customers will love from 
season to season and that is easy to care 
for with the lowest possible impact. We 
need to inspire our customers to be more 
con scious in the way they care for their 
clothes, for example as regards washing 
and drying, and make it easy and effort -
less to recycle any garment that might 
no longer be wanted. INTRODUCTION
The impacts along our value chain
GARMENT PRODUCTION
OUR 
INFLUENCECLIMATE 
 IMPACT*WATER 
  IMPACT*SOCIAL
   IMPACT**
Medium 6% 1% HighTRANSPORT
OUR 
INFLUENCECLIMATE 
 IMPACT*WATER 
  IMPACT*SOCIAL
   IMPACT**
Medium 6% 0% LowSALES
OUR 
INFLUENCECLIMATE 
 IMPACT*WATER 
  IMPACT*SOCIAL
   IMPACT**
High 10% 0% HighUSE
OUR 
INFLUENCECLIMATE 
 IMPACT*WATER 
  IMPACT*SOCIAL
   IMPACT**
Low 26% 8% Medium11 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015INTRODUCTION
Our Head of Sustainability, Anna Gedda, reports 
directly to our CEO and holds the responsibility 
for the implementation of our sustainability strat -
egy together with the executive management team. 
We have a total of around 200 colleagues who work 
with sustainability as their core task. 
At our head office, our sustainability department  
consists of more than 20 people responsible for 
developing strategic directives, reviewing progress, 
and supporting and advising all relevant depart -
ments on the development and implementation 
of prioritised Conscious Actions based on continued 
stakeholder engagement, business intelligence 
and innovation research. We do this in an annual 
process in which our sustainability department 
presents priorities, new trends and recommended 
goals and actions to each department that has 
a critical impact on the matter. With this support, How we work with sustainability
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
CENTRAL SUSTAINABILITY 
DEPARTMENTLOCAL SUSTAINABILITY 
FUNCTIONSOTHER SENIOR
EXECUTIVE FUNCTIONSBI-ANNUAL
PERFORMANCE 
REPORTING
DEFINE 
PRIORITIES ANNUALLY 
BASED ON BUSINESS 
INTELLIGENCE 
AND INNOVATION 
PROCESSHEAD OF  
SUSTAINABILITYCEO
We have around 200  
colleagues who work with 
sustainability as their  
core task.each department is in turn responsi -
ble for developing and carrying out 
their Conscious Actions to fulfil our 
seven commitments. Besides these 
department specific goals, country 
managers are measured against our 
4C scorecard (Cash, Customers, 
Colleagues, Conscious), which gives 
all four areas equal importance. 
Twice a year, our CEO, CFO and Head 
of Sustainability review the progress 
made. With the same frequency, our 
Head of Sustainability reports perfor -
mance against key sustainability 
indicators to our Board of Directors.
About 130 people from our sustain -
ability teams operate from 21 locally-
based production offices around the 
world. They work directly with our 
suppliers to support them in complying 
with our Sustainability Commitment  
(previously our Code of Conduct) and 
help to make our supply chain more 
sustainable. About 50 “Conscious 
Coordinators” work in our different 
departments and country offices sup -
porting the implementation of our 
global sustainability strategy in their 
organisations.12 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015INTRODUCTION
Joint forces for solutions
We believe that the way to innovation goes through 
diversity and a multitude of voices. Stakeholder 
insights help us prioritise the Conscious Actions 
we take and invest our resources in the best possible 
way. Throughout the year, we hold regular open 
dialogues with our different stakeholders,* which 
are essential to us in our sustainability work. 
We do this on a day-to-day basis, through regular 
roundtables on a global and local level, focused 
stake  holder reviews and strategy consultations, 
dedicated surveys, media analyses and participation 
in several multi-stakeholder initiatives, as part 
of our strategic business intelligence, and through 
our wage advisory board. 
Tackling the major challenges in the textile industry 
– that affect everyone along our value chain – is not 
something we can do on our own. We therefore seek 
to join forces with our stakeholders such as our peers, 
suppliers, NGOs and others to strive together for 
a more sustainable fashion industry. Such collabora -
tions can also help increase the level of influence 
we have and promote systemic change. At present, 
we are involved in a number of local and global indus -
try collaborations, partnerships and multi-stake -
holder initiatives such as the Better Cotton Initiative 
(BCI), Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC), the Fair 
*Including customers, colleagues, communities, suppliers 
and their employees, industry peers, media, NGOs, IGOs, 
policymakers and investors.Wage Network (FWN), Better Work 
and the Roadmap to Zero Discharge 
of Hazardous Chemicals.
>hm.com/memberships  
>hm.com/stakeholderdialogueAWA R DS  
AND RECOGNITIONS
Here are some of the indices, rankings and awards 
that assessed and recognised our sustainability 
performance during the year. 
2015 and 2016 World’s Most Ethical Companies
Dow Jones Sustainability Europe Index
Dow Jones Sustainability World Index 
FTSE4Good 
Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations 2015
Green Power Leadership Awards 
Green Ranking Global Top 100 
PETA’s Libby Award as Most Animal-Friendly  
Clothing Company
RobecoSAM’s sustainability award for Industry  
Mover in the retailing industry
Sustainable Brand Index 2015
>hm.com/whatotherssay 
13 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015
 — COMMITMENT ONE —
Provide fashion  
for conscious customers
Fashion is a great way to express 
your personality and it is a 
source of fun and inspiration. 
We always offer a wide and varied range  
of inspiring collections, from the latest  
trends to sustainable classics that can  
be worn season after season. We believe  
in a better fashion future – one where 
fashion both looks good and does good. 
By making conscious choices all the 
way from the cotton field to the point 
when you may no longer want a beloved 
piece, we can make a big difference 
to our planet. It starts with the design 
and the importance of creating prod -
ucts in innovative and more sustain -
able ways without compromising on 
looks, quality or comfort. But we don’t 
want to stop there. We want to inspire 
our customers to wash at lower tem -
peratures and make it as easy as pos -
sible to recycle the clothes that are 
no longer wanted or needed. 14 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Performance overviewOrganic, recycled  and 
Better Cotton now represent 
31%  of our total cotton use. 
Our goal is 100% by 2020 . Key performance 2015
This dress is sold in 165  
H&M stores as well as 
online for EUR 149/
GBP 119.99 .It is made from 
72% Tencel® , 
an innovative 
fabric  made from 
sustainably-grown 
wood fibre.
It is part of our 
Conscious Exclusive 
Collection , a modern 
and fashionable collection 
made from sustainably 
sourced materials to be 
worn for special 
events  and occasions 
as well as for everyday 
dressing up .At clevercare.info 
you can find 
inspiration  on how 
to care for it with less 
environmental 
impact  so you can 
wear it and love it year 
after year.The dress 
is embellished  
with glass beads made of 
50% recycled glass .SUSTAINABLE COTTON* IN %  
OF TOTAL COTTON USE
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
*Certified organic cotton, Better Cotton (BCI) 
or recycled cotton. 7.6%11.4%15.8%21.2%31.4%2020
(Goal)
100%SHARE OF SUSTAINABLY  
SOURCED MATERIALS
2012 9%2013 11%2014 14%
Included are all materials classified as sustainably 
sourced materials, such as certified organic or recycled 
fabrics, as well as Better Cotton (BCI).2015 20%COMMITMENT ONE – PROVIDE FASHION FOR CONSCIOUS CUSTOMERS15 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Performance overview*For franchise markets at least one store per market. For new non-franchise stores, garment collecting systems must be implemented max. six months after opening.PROGRESS OVERVIEWTIMELINE STATUS
MORE TO DO ON TRACK DONE
FOCUS – CONSCIOUS PRODUCTS AND MATERIALS
1.1 INCREASE OUR USE OF SUSTAINABLY SOURCED MATERIALS YEAR-TO-YEAR
1.2 ONLY USE COTTON FROM SUSTAINABLE SOURCES 2020
1.3 REPLACE SOLVENT-BASED GLUES IN PRODUCTION OF FOOTWEAR AND OTHER ACCESSORIES 2020
1.4 NEW – PLACE FIRST VOLUME ORDERS FOR SHOES MADE WITH VEGAN, WATER-BASED PU 2016
1.5 NEW – ONLY USE MAN-MADE CELLULOSIC FIBRES THAT DO NOT CONTRIBUTE TO DEFORESTATION OF ANCIENT OR ENDANGERED FORESTS 2017
FOCUS – ANIMAL WELFARE
1.6 ONLY USE WOOL FROM CERTIFIED SOURCES 2018
1.7 ONLY USE DOWN FROM CERTIFIED SOURCES 2016
FOCUS – INSPIRE OUR CUSTOMERS AND COLLEAGUES
1.8 ENSURE THAT ALL OF OUR OWN H&M STORES PROVIDE GARMENT COLLECTING SERVICES* YEAR-TO-YEAR
1.9 HELP SET INDUSTRY STANDARD FOR MEASURING PRODUCT SUSTAINABILITY 2020
1.10 ROLL OUT SUSTAINABILITY TRAINING PROGRAMME FOR ALL OF OUR COLLEAGUES 2015
1.11 INVOLVE OUR CUSTOMERS AND COLLEAGUES IN OUR SUSTAINABILITY WORK YEAR-TO-YEARCOMMITMENT ONE – PROVIDE FASHION FOR CONSCIOUS CUSTOMERS16 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our strategy Our missionFocus: Conscious products and materials
We want to help our customers express 
their personal style. We know that our  
customers increasingly care for the story 
around a garment and what matters is 
no longer only looking great. We want 
to make conscious choices easy and 
desirable – throughout the entire life 
of a garment. 
Little by little, these choices will help 
reduce the impacts that fashion has 
on the planet. By lifting innovation 
to scale, we work to turn those impacts 
from negative to positive ones. Together 
with our customers and partners we 
want to contribute to a fashion world 
where personal style and sustainability 
are no longer contradictory, but rather 
go hand in hand. We are constantly on the lookout for 
innovative materials and processes 
that can make our products more sus -
tainable. Products with the highest 
sustainability credentials are labelled 
with our Conscious hang tag. These 
are made of at least 50% independently 
certified materials such as organic 
or recycled fabrics* or other innovative 
more sustainable fabrics such as 
Tencel®.**
Since 2014, we have expanded the scope 
of the Conscious hang tag to also in  -
clude products that are made using the 
most innovative technology to reduce 
environmental impact in the continued 
production. For example, since 2015, 
all of our denim production is covered 
by a tool developed by the sustainable 
denim experts at Jeanologia. This helps 
us measure, set targets and reduce 
energy and water use for our wash pro -
cesses. A benchmark for our denim  
washes is planned to be in place in 
2016. 
With our annual Conscious Exclusive 
collection, we want to show that sus -
tainable fashion is ready for the red 
carpet. With our permanent range COMMITMENT ONE – PROVIDE FASHION FOR CONSCIOUS CUSTOMERS
Looking good  
should do good  too.
*Except recycled cotton fabric that comes from 
used clothes. To ensure high quality, currently 
only about 20% of recycled input material can 
be blended into the material composition of a 
garment, a challenge that we are working on as 
part of our goal to close the textile loop (p. 89).
**At H&M, we have labelled two types of lyocell 
as more sustainable; Tencel® made from FSC™-
certified eucalyptus and Monocel® made from 
FSC™-certified bamboo.of Conscious products, these innova -
tions become part of the standard 
offer across the board, all year long.
>jeanologia.com
17 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious ActionsWe use a wide range of organic and 
recycled fabrics as well as other inno   -
vative and sustainably sourced 
mat er ials like Tencel® and recycled  
polyester. These are in our conscious 
materials list . This list is based 
on third-party sources such as the 
en vironmental benchmark for fibres 
created by the organisation MADE-
BY, and we are always on the lookout 
for new materials. 
A product consisting of at least 50% 
of the materials from our conscious 
materials list (20% for recycled cotton) 
is labelled with our Conscious hang 
tag.* Together with Better Cotton, 
these materials now represent 20% 
(2014: 14%, 2013: 11%) of the material use in our products (9% organic 
materials, 1% recycled materials and 
10% others**). Our goal is to increase 
this ratio each year. In doing so, we 
make more environmentally friendly 
choices available to a larger group 
of people, help lift these materials to 
scale and create demand for further 
innovation. 
>bettercotton.org  
>made-by.org
*Products made with Better Cotton are 
not labelled with our Conscious hang tag 
as Better Cotton is currently not intended 
to be a product-labelling scheme.
**“Others” include mainly so-called Better 
Cotton grown under the system of the 
Better Cotton Initiative (BCI). TIMELINE STATUS
YEAR-TO-YEAR ON TRACK1.1 Increase our use of sus -
tainably sourced materials
SHARE OF SUSTAINABLY  
SOURCED MATERIALS
ORGANICOTHER*
20159%10%
20149%5%
20137%3%
*Including Better Cotton (BCI).0.3%0.2%1%
RECYCLEDFocus: Conscious products and materialsCOMMITMENT ONE – PROVIDE FASHION FOR CONSCIOUS CUSTOMERS
We are one  of the 
world’s biggest users  
of organic cotton .18 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious Actions1.2 Only use cotton from 
sustainable sources 
Cotton is the material we use the most 
and we are one of the biggest users 
in the world of certified organic cotton 
according to the Textile Exchange’s 
latest Organic Cotton Market Report. 
Cotton is a natural, renewable fibre 
that offers many advantages, but also 
comes with a number of concerns. For 
example, the amount of conventional 
cotton needed for an average t-shirt 
requires about 11 bathtubs of water 
to grow. Also, about 16% of all insecti -
cides and pesticides in the world are 
used in cotton production.* This not 
only impacts people and the environ -
ment, it also results in higher costs.
Organic cotton, Better Cotton and 
recycled cotton reduce these impacts 
significantly. Organic cotton is grown 
without chemical pesticides and fer -
tilizers, and contains no genetically 
modified organisms (GMOs).  TIMELINE STATUS
2020 ON TRACKAlso Better Cotton is grown with less 
water and chemicals, within the Better 
Cotton Initiative (BCI). Recycled cot -
ton comes from old garments and tex -
tile leftovers, which are grinded into 
fibre, spun into new yarns and weaved 
into new fabrics. Additionally, organic 
and Better Cotton help millions of 
farmers and their communities to 
improve their standard of living. The 
Better Cotton Initiative trains farmers 
to use less input of costly fertilisers or 
insecticides and pesticides resulting 
in both improved profitability and 
reduced environmental impact.
During 2015, we further increased 
our use of recycled and Better Cotton 
and together with organic cotton, 
these three sources now represent 31% 
of our total cotton use (2014: 21%, 
2013: 16%). By 2020 our goal is to 
solely use these kinds of sustainable 
cotton. All organic cotton used in our 
production is certified by independ -
ent certification bodies such as the  
Con trol Union or IMO. We are contin -
uing to invest in organic cotton and, 
as a founding member of the Organic 
Cotton Accelerator (OCA), are actively 
involved in further strengthening the supply, demand, and the integration 
of organic cotton. 
However, organic cotton currently 
still represents less than 1% of global 
production and it is not a viable 
option for all farmers. In addition 
to this, the Better Cotton Initiative 
provides a complementary solution 
that can more easily be adopted by 
more cotton farmers and that is a key 
cornerstone in achieving our goal 
to use cotton only from sustainable 
sources by 2020, and to transform the 
cotton industry. We expect recycled 
cotton to also play an increasingly 
important role in the years to come, 
while further technical innovation 
will be needed to increase recycling 
possibilities and improve the recycled 
fibre quality.
Moving towards our goal also means 
moving towards full traceability of 
cotton by 2020. Today we have banned 
cotton from Uzbekistan, a country 
that repeatedly has been connected 
to forced labour and child labour 
in its cotton industry. Since 2016, 
we have expanded this ban to cover 
Turkmenistan as well for similar *Source: Pesticide Action Network.% OF SUSTAINABLE COTTON  
OF TOTAL COTTON USE
ORGANIC COTTONBETTER COTTONRECYCLED COTTON
2011 2012 2013 2014 20157.8%10.8%13.7%14.3%16.9%
7.5%
5.0%
3.6%
Please find an independant assurance statement 
related to GRI G4-EN1 here (p. 123).Total
7.6%Total
11.4%Total
15.8%Total
21.2%Total
31.4% 0.2%
Focus: Conscious products and materialsCOMMITMENT ONE – PROVIDE FASHION FOR CONSCIOUS CUSTOMERS
Cotton  is the raw material we use 
the most. Our aim is for all cotton in our 
range to come from sustainable 
sources  by 2020 .
reasons, as well as to cotton from 
Syria because of ongoing conflict in 
the country. Full traceability of cot -
ton will help us in further ensuring 
the adherence to this ban in our 
value chain.
>textileexchange.org  
>organiccottonaccelerator.org  
>controlunion.org  
>imo.ch  
>bettercotton.org19 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious Actions1.3 Replace solvent-based 
glues in production of foot -
wear and other accessories
Solvent-based glues are often used 
in footwear and accessory produc -
tion and the VOCs (volatile organic 
compounds) that they contain can 
be harmful to factory workers if not 
handled with sufficient protection. 
Water-based glues can provide a bet -
ter alternative. That’s why our goal 
used to be producing all of our shoes, 
the biggest product group concerned, 
with these alternatives. However, 
we learned that even factories using 
water-based glues for most parts of 
a shoe may still use solvents for other 
parts to ensure quality. In addition, 
water-based glue may still contain 
solvents, even though these amounts 
are much lower than for purely sol -
vent-based glues. Consequently, we 
changed our goal from using water-
based glues only to what actually 
makes a difference for the workers: 
replacing solvents with better alterna -
tives throughout the entire process.TIMELINE STATUS
2020 MORE TO DOShoes made  
with water-based 
glues require 
fewer safety 
precautions for 
workers. Focus: Conscious products and materialsCOMMITMENT ONE – PROVIDE FASHION FOR CONSCIOUS CUSTOMERS
All in all, we want to contribute to 
a lower level of VOCs in our supplier 
factories. We are continuing our work 
to make as many of our products as 
possible with better alternatives. 
The share of our shoes mainly made 
with water-based glues during 2015 
was 24.1% and we are working with 
our suppliers to ensure that when 
using water-based glues they choose 
the best available options to ensure 
the lowest possible levels of VOCs.
 
We are also looking for, and testing, 
other VOCs reducing options such 
as thermo glues. In 2015, we success -
fully conducted a trial to replace 
solvent-based and water-based glue 
in shoes with thermo glue. The result 
was promising and as the next step 
we will carry out a further detailed 
study to understand the limitations 
before starting the actual replacement 
with thermo glue in our supply chain. SHARE OF SHOES MADE WITH MAINLY 
WATER-BASED GLUES*
20.9%24.6%24.1%
2013 2014 2015
Water-based glue >50% of total glue.
20 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious Actions
NEW 1.5 Only use man-made 
cellulosic fibres that do not 
contribute to deforestation of 
ancient or endangered forests
Producing man-made cellulosic fibres 
such as viscose requires pulp, which 
usually comes from trees. Annually, 
an estimated 120 million trees* are 
cut down for fabric production, with 
the growth of viscose production pro  -
jected to double by 2025. In the worst  
cases, these trees come from ancient 
or endangered forests, and from the 
habitat of endangered species. We do 
not want any endangered or ancient 
forests cut down to make any of the 
fabrics that we use. That’s why we 
teamed up with the NGO Canopy and 
a number of other lead  ing brands to 
ensure that the man-made cellulosic 
fibres we use for making our products 
do not contribute to such deforestation. 
To achieve this, we introduced a policy 
in 2014 to avoid sourcing fabrics from TIMELINE STATUS
2017 ON TRACKancient and endangered forests. 
As well as to promote the use of fabrics 
that come from Forest Stewardship 
Council (FSC) certified plantations, 
or FSC certified forestry found outside 
all ancient and endangered forests 
that don’t come from illegal logging 
or endangered species habitat. We will 
require full traceability on our man-
made cellulosic fabrics by 2017, and 
we will also encourage the develop -
ment of alternate fibre sources for 
man-made cellulosic fabrics such 
as recycled textile fibres. We are also 
requiring our man-made cellulosic 
fibre suppliers to undertake a third 
party verification process that veri -
fies that they are not sourcing from 
ancient and endangered forests.
During 2015, in order to reach our 
goal by 2017, we have together with 
other brands and Canopy engaged 
our suppliers to set their own policies 
to avoid sourcing fabrics from ancient 
and endangered forests.
>H&M’s material ethics policy  
>ic.fsc.org  
>canopyplanet.org
We aim for full traceability of our 
man-made cellulosic fabrics by 2017.NEW 1.4 Place first volume 
orders for shoes made with 
vegan, water-based PU 
Polyurethane (PU) is a material often 
referred to as “vegan leather” as 
it con   tains no animal products. Its 
downside is that it usually contains 
solvents requiring workers to wear 
protective gear and raises envi  ron  -
mental concerns. Water-based alter  n a-
tives would allow fewer precautions. 
However, in the past, these alterna -
tives have not provided sufficient 
quality or durability. This is why we 
have been working for the past few 
years with several partners to find 
the required innovation. During 2015 
we continued our work and placed 
two test orders for various kinds of 
products. 
Our goal is to scale up the use of 
water-based PU materials during 
2016 and place the first volume 
orders. This will guide us in setting 
future goals and milestones towards 
a full phase-out of solvent-based PU.TIMELINE STATUS
2016 ON TRACKIn 2016 , we plan to 
make the first volume  orders  
for shoes  made with water-
based  “vegan leather .”Focus: Conscious products and materialsCOMMITMENT ONE – PROVIDE FASHION FOR CONSCIOUS CUSTOMERS
*Source: Canopy.21 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our strategy Our missionCOMMITMENT ONE – PROVIDE FASHION FOR CONSCIOUS CUSTOMERS
Focus: Animal welfare
Animal welfare is important to us and 
we are committed to making positive 
contributions throughout our value 
chain. Animals must be treated with 
respect at all times. For many years, 
we have banned the use of real fur, 
exotic skins as well as any materials 
deriving from endangered species and
since 2013, this also includes the use 
of angora wool. We do not perform 
animal tests on our beauty products 
and we have strict requirements in 
place for any other materials of animal 
origin such as wool, leather or down. 
Our aim is to not only set high stand -
ards for ourselves, but for the entire 
industry. This is why we have joined 
forces with organisations such as the 
Humane Society International (HSI) 
and the Textile Exchange. Together, 
we are working to make the treatment 
of animals a priority in the fashion 
industry – across farms that supply 
animal origin fabrics and not the least 
to achieve a global ban on animal test -
ing for beauty products. 
>hsi.org  
>textileexchange.orgDuring 2015, we manifested these beliefs in a new 
collaboration with HSI, one of the world’s largest 
nonprofit organisations for animal welfare. Together, 
we are working to further improve animal welfare 
standards not only in H&M’s value chain, but in 
the entire fashion industry. This comes in addition 
to our existing Animal Welfare policy  that sets out 
strict requirements for all material with animal origin 
such as fur, wool and leather. To go further from here, 
we have to overcome new challenges. Such as the fact 
that material that are derived from animals are often 
delivered by small farms that are often located several 
tiers upstream in our value chain. This limits trans -
parency and makes it harder for us to monitor and 
influence conditions.
Therefore, we have set the ambitious goal for all ani -
mal materials to be fully traceable all the way down 
“It is exciting to partner with a company that shares our passion for animal 
protection. Working with H&M to end animal testing for cosmetics, and 
improve the lives of animals on farms will set a high standard for others to  
follow. It will show that it not only makes good ethical sense to treat animals 
with kindness and compassion, but it makes good business sense too.”  
Humane Society International’s CEO Andrew Rowanto farms that are certified for good 
animal husbandry. We started with 
down in 2015 and from the 2016 
autumn/winter season we expect all 
down in our stores to come from cer -
tified sources. We are aiming for the 
same target for wool by 2018 at the 
latest. In parallel, we are working with 
partners such as the Textile Exchange 
to develop certification standards to 
ensure good animal husbandry on the 
ground and to help lift this kind of 
requirement beyond our value chain 
into the entire fashion industry.
>hm.com/policies22 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious Actions1.6 Only use wool from  
certified sources 1.7 Only use down from certi -
fied sources
Wool is an important fibre known 
for its high-quality attributes, and 
securing the highest standards of 
animal welfare is crucial. Many years 
ago, we were one of the first compa -
nies to ban the use of mulesing, 
a cruel practice originally introduced 
to protect sheep from worm infesta -
tions. At the moment, however, there 
is no global standard or certification 
for responsible wool production. To 
change this, in early 2014 we initi  ated 
a Responsible Wool Standard together 
with the NGO Textile Exchange, the 
certification body Control Union and 
a number of other brands and stake -
holders. The aim is to launch a cer -
tifiable global standard during the 
first half of 2016. The focus is on  
animal welfare.
Our goal is that products ordered in 
2017 and onwards will use certified 
wool only. This means that our first 
products of this kind are expected Plucking down from living birds is 
unacceptable. That is why we want 
to make sure that none of the down 
used for making our products comes 
from farms that perform any such 
practices. We set the goal for 2016 
onwards to use only down from farms 
that are certified according to the 
Textile Exchange’s Responsible Down 
Standard. Already by the end of 2015 
all orders that we placed for products 
made with down met this require -
ment. These products will hit our 
stores during autumn/winter season 
2016. 
Through this initiative, we gain full 
traceability of the origin of down and 
are able to ensure that these farms 
comply with strict animal welfare 
standards – all verified through third-
party certification. 
>responsibledown.org  
>hm.com/animalTIMELINE STATUS
2018 ON TRACKTIMELINE STATUS
2016 ON TRACKto hit stores during 2018. With this, 
we also aim to achieve full traceability 
for wool and all other sorts of animal 
hair such as cashmere, mohair and 
alpaca. We also require that all farms, 
as a minimum, fulfil the conditions 
listed in our Farm Requirements for 
Animal Welfare document, a set of 
requirements based on the Five Free -
dom Framework.
>responsiblewool.org  
>hm.com/animal
Our first  
products using 
certified wool 
only will hit  
stores in 2018.All orders  placed for 
products made with down  now  
come from certified sources . 
COMMITMENT ONE – PROVIDE FASHION FOR CONSCIOUS CUSTOMERS
Focus: Animal welfare23 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015What are the biggest animal welfare issues 
in the fashion industry?
Continually improving wool, leather and down 
standards while innovating non-animal alternatives 
is key to the fashion industry’s long-term success.
How do you think these should be tackled?
Farm-level traceability would ensure enforcement 
of standards, while meaningful contributions 
to technological advancements help drive more 
substantive progress.
You collaborate with businesses in the fashion 
industry. What benefits do you see from such 
collaboration and where would you draw 
the line to not work with a certain company?
Collaboration identifies leaders and sets the indus -
try’s tone. Without open dialogue and a willingness 
to improve, companies are left behind.
How do you see H&M’s performance with regards 
to animal welfare?
H&M is an animal welfare leader and, if it continues 
adapting to consumers’ values, will be so for years 
to come.
What would you like to see from H&M in the future?
We hope to continue working with H&M to show that 
doing good can be an important part of doing well. 
Interview with Andrew Rowan, President and CEO, Humane Society InternationalFocus: Animal welfareCOMMITMENT ONE – PROVIDE FASHION FOR CONSCIOUS CUSTOMERS24 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our strategy Our missionOur mission
We are constantly looking for ways to 
make our products more sustainable 
and we want to make sustainable fash -
ion accessible and desirable. Teaming 
up with our customers helps us make 
an even bigger impact. Did you know 
that washing and drying represents 26% 
of a garment’s climate impact according 
to our calculations? Not only do we 
need to inspire our customers to make 
conscious wardrobe choices, we also 
need to help them care for their clothes 
so they last as long as possible, have 
less impact on our climate and water, 
and are easy to recycle. We started introducing the concept 
of sustainability in fashion to a wide 
range of customers already in the 90s. 
First out was our Nature Calling Col -
lection with organic cotton in 1993. 
In 2002, we launched the Water Collec -
tion, followed by Fashion against Aids 
and the Conscious Exclusive Collection 
to mention a few. 
Over the past few years we have gradu -
ally involved our customers in more 
and more of our Conscious Actions, 
such as our in-store garment collect -
ing programme. This service collects 
unwanted clothes for reuse and recy -
cling and has taken us another step 
further to close the loop on textile 
fi bres. Thereto, we have made it easy 
for our customers to find conscious 
fashion in our stores – all of our Con -
scious garments have the green hang 
tag. 
We are committed to transparent 
re porting on our sustainability per -
formance and will continue to make 
informed, sustainable choices even 
easier and more attractive to raise 
awareness amongst our customers 
and colleagues. Inspire conscious 
garment careHelp ensure fashion 
does not go to wasteENABLE INFORMED CONSCIOUS CHOICES
We want to make conscious choices easy and 
fun throughout the life of a garmentFocus: Inspire our customers and colleaguesCOMMITMENT ONE – PROVIDE FASHION FOR CONSCIOUS CUSTOMERS25 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious Actions
In 2013, we built what is probably 
the world’s biggest garment collect -
ing system, offering millions of 
customers easy solutions to not let 
fashion go to waste. By the end of 
2015, almost all H&M stores around 
the globe offered this service. The 
only exceptions are made for new 
stores and franchise markets. Our 
rule is that garment collecting ser -
v ices need to be up and running six 
months after the opening of a new 
store at the latest. For franchise 
markets, our current rule is that at 
least one store per market must offer 
recycling options to customers.Together with several of our peers, 
academia, NGOs and many others 
in the Sustainable Apparel Coalition 
(SAC), we are building a common 
tool for measuring the sustainability 
performance of apparel and foot -
wear through the Higg Index (s. 2.2). 
This is a major driver in improving 
the sustainability performance 
of our entire industry. Ultimately, 
the idea is to translate this index 
into a product labelling system, 
allowing customers to benchmark 
products across brands. Currently, 
we are working together with SAC 
to create a roadmap for taking the 
Higg Index public. Creating mean -
ingful and widely acknowledged 
labelling takes some time, and we 
appreciate that the SAC is taking 
the first steps to turn this goal into 
a reality. 
>apparelcoalition.org1.8 Ensure that all of our own 
H&M stores provide garment 
collecting services1.9 Help set industry stand -
ard for measuring product 
sustainability
TIMELINE STATUS
YEAR-TO-YEAR DONETIMELINE STATUS
2020 ON TRACK
We are one of the biggest  fashion 
companies in the world to offer garment 
collecting in stores globally .Focus: Inspire our customers and colleaguesCOMMITMENT ONE – PROVIDE FASHION FOR CONSCIOUS CUSTOMERS26 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious ActionsWe regularly team up with our  
cus tomers to support communities 
around the world. Through collections 
and campaigns and together with our 
partners we are raising both money 
and awareness for important causes. 
During the holiday season 2015, we 
engaged our customers with the H&M 
Foundation for the third year in a 
row. For every gift card sold at H&M 
stores around the world du  r ing this 
period, the H&M Foundation matched 
5% of the purchased amount (approx -
imately SEK 45 mil  lion/EUR 4.9 mil -
lion) with a dona  tion to UNICEF, the  
United Nations Chil    dren’s Fund. 
This way, H&M cust   omers will help 
children in Myanmar to access better 
education.* The pro  gram started in 
February 2016 and aims to benefit at 
least 480,000 chil  dren until it ends 
in December 2018. 
Further, already in 2014, the H&M 1.11 Involve our customers 
and colleagues in our sustain -
ability work
TIMELINE STATUS
YEAR-TO-YEAR DONE
We want all of our colleagues to feel 
proud of where they work and be 
able to deliver the best pos  sible ser -
vice to our customers also in terms 
of sustainability. In 2012, we started 
developing a broader sustainability 
training ladder including extensive 
training for all of our colleagues and 
additional role-specific courses for 
our buyers and designers. Areas cov -
ered in the trai  ning are for example 
our Sustainability Commitment  and 
human rights, sustainably sourced 
materials and water. The training 
system has been imple  mented in most 
of our markets, excluding franchises 
and a roll-out in Germany that is 
planned for 2016. 
By 2015, 35% of our colleagues around 
the world had undergone training. 
However, reaching all of our Sales 
Advisors poses a challenge. We have 
made the training a mandatory 1.10 Roll out sustainability 
training programme for all 
of our colleagues
TIMELINE STATUS
2015 MORE TO DO 
ele ment of our induction for new col -
leagues, but reaching those who are 
already working for us on the shop 
floor in different shifts and with 
limi ted access to computers in their 
daily work is not always easy. So, we 
are diverting our efforts to help all 
our of colleagues with the necessary 
understanding of sustainability 
through additional means such as 
specific campaign training courses 
and internal communication chan -
nels. Moving forward, we will focus 
our work on developing new goals 
and KPIs that will measure the im  pact 
on our colleagues better.We develop new goals and KPIs  
to better measure the impact of  
our sustainability training course.Foundation launched the Dream 
Fund, inviting colleagues at H&M 
to come up with sustainability ideas 
that have the potential to lead to 
inspiration and engagement amongst 
colleagues and that are in line with 
the H&M values. The first two win -
ning ideas were chosen in spring 2015, 
helping in an inspiring way to moti -
vate colleagues to reduce paper use 
and raise their understanding of 
H&M’s sustainability work. 
>unicef.org
*The program includes children in formal 
schooling, children living in camps for 
internally displaced people and children 
who will be reached through non-formal 
education initiatives. UNICEF will work 
on multiple levels to influence changes 
in policy, in education management and 
in schools and communities. Children, 
parents, teachers, headmasters and 
policymakers will be involved in creating 
better schools for children. NO. OF HOURS OF TRAINING  
ON SUSTAINABILITY
2015 2014 2013SALES ADVISOR
OTHER
1,640 h4,333 h6,488 h23,273 h
1,472 h12,816 hFocus: Inspire our customers and colleaguesCOMMITMENT ONE – PROVIDE FASHION FOR CONSCIOUS CUSTOMERS27 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015For many countries, the garment 
production is a development  
escalator that shows communi -
ties the way out of poverty. It creates  
millions of jobs, in particular for women,  
who often are important income pro -
viders for their families. China, Bang -
ladesh, India, Cambodia and Turkey  
are some of the world’s biggest gar  ment  
producers of today, and all are key 
sourcing markets for us. Since we don’t  
own any factories we work with some 
820 independent suppliers in close 
long-term partnerships. Our products 
are made in about 1,900 factories, 
which employ about 1.6 million people. 
Around 60% of them are women. At the  
same time, human rights and environ -
mental standards can be at risk across 
our value chain. 
We have seen great improvements over 
the years in many areas. Child labour, 
for example, is very rare today in the 
textile industry. However, systemic 
chal  lenges such as long working hours 
and a lack of functioning industrial 
relations remain common issues in 
many markets. Wages and workplace 
safety are key concerns, particularly 
in Bangladesh and Cambodia.
We use our influence to promote better 
working conditions, ensure that human 
rights are respected and reduce envi -
ronmental impacts throughout our 
value chain – from working with indi -
vidual factories to pushing for systemic 
change in countries and in the textile 
industry. This includes working for 
fair living wages and decent working 
hours for all garment workers. We stand behind the right to freedom of associa -
tion and work systematically to streng -
then industrial relations and collective  
bargaining.
Working together with several differ -
ent stakeholders and partners is the 
key to lasting change. We choose and 
reward responsible partners who share  
our values and are willing to work 
transparently with us to improve their 
social and environmental performance. 
We look for long-term partnerships 
with our suppliers and engage in stra -
tegic partnerships with the most pro -
gressive ones. We set high standards 
for our suppliers and check how well 
they live up to them. But much more 
than that, we work together to go 
beyond minimum standards and to 
truly integrate sustainability into the 
management systems of our partners. 
We provide training, conduct manage -
ment system analysis, help develop 
measurements and data systems so our 
suppliers can identify and tackle their 
impacts, and we reward good perfor -
mance systematically with long-term 
business commitment and growth 
opportunities, by us defined as better 
business.  — COMMITMENT TWO —
Choose and reward  
responsible partners
28 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious Actions
We integrated second-tier supplier 
factories  involved in making at 
least 50% of our products  into our 
sustainability assessments . Key performance 2015
This is 
Shakuntala . 
She is 54 years old and 
works at the Radnik 
factory in India, one 
of the factories where 
our Conscious 
Exclusive 
Collection  
was made. “I like the atmos -
phere  at my work -
place and enjoy seeing 
the creativity  and 
innovation 
in the clothes 
I make . That’s also 
why I’ve been in the 
business for so long.”
She started 
her profession  
in handwork 38 
years ago . Today, 
she is Quality 
Manager  for 
Handwork  
& Worker 
Guidance .The factories where 
our suppliers make 
our products employ 
about 1.6 million 
people . About 
60% of them 
are women , often 
important income 
providers  for 
their families.PROGRESS IN FACTORY  
SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE  
(IN ICOC* SCORES)
*Code of Conduct Index.
Data collected during the period 1 Dec 2014  
to 31 May 2015 according to our previous Full Audit 
Programme (FAP).STRA TEGIC FACTORIES
ALL FACTORIES
77.779.180.182.783.6
76.577.3 77.881.082.2
2012 2013 2014 2015 2011Performance overviewCOMMITMENT TWO – PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW
368146All 
strategic 
supplier 
factories*
*Manufacturing factories.NO. OF STRATEGIC SUPPLIER  
FACTORIES* WITH IMPROVED PAY 
STRUCTURES IMPLEMENTED
2016
(goal)2018
(goal)2015 201429 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015PROGRESS OVERVIEWTIMELINE STATUS
MORE TO DO ON TRACK DONE
FOCUS – SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
2.1 NEW – TRANSFORM OUR CODE OF CONDUCT INTO A SUSTAINABILITY COMMITMENT 2015
2.2 ASSESS EACH OF OUR SUPPLIER FACTORIES ON THEIR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE YEAR-TO-YEAR
2.3 REWARD GOOD SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE WITH BETTER BUSINESS YEAR-TO-YEAR
2.4 ENSURE THAT ALL NEW SUPPLIER FACTORIES ARE SCREENED AND AUDITED BEFORE FIRST ORDER PLACEMENT YEAR-TO-YEAR
2.5 HELP PREVENT CAUSES OF NON-COMPLIANCE THROUGH MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ANALYSIS AND CAPACITY BUILDING YEAR-TO-YEAR
2.6 UPDATE OUR STRATEGY FOR SUSTAINABLE PURCHASING PRACTICES TO ENSURE FAIR BUSINESS PARTNERSHIPS WITH OUR SUPPLIERS 2016
2.7 FOLLOW UP ON INITIAL INSPECTIONS AS PER THE BANGLADESH ACCORD ON FIRE AND BUILDING SAFETY, ENSURE REMEDIATION AND ENROLL NEW FACTORIES IN THE ACCORD INSPECTION PROGRAMME ONGOING
2.8 IMPLEMENT TRAINING AGAINST FORCED LABOUR TOGETHER WITH ETHICAL TRADING INITIATIVE (ETI) AT INDIAN SPINNING MILLS 2017
2.9 INTEGRATE SECOND-TIER SUPPLIER FACTORIES INVOLVED IN MAKING AT LEAST 50% OF OUR PRODUCTS INTO OUR SUSTAINABILITY ASSESSMENTS 2015
2.10 UPDATE OUR PUBLIC SUPPLIER FACTORY LIST TO INCLUDE THE FIRST SECOND-TIER FACTORIES YEAR-TO-YEAR *
2.11 DEVELOP UPDATED STRATEGY TO PROMOTE HIGH ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND ANIMAL WELFARE STANDARDS IN LEATHER PRODUCTION 2015
2.12 FURTHER INCREASE SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE AT ALL SUPPLIER FACTORIES YEAR-TO-YEAR
FOCUS – FAIR LIVING WAGES
2.13 CONTINUE TO DEVELOP OUR PURCHASING PRACTICES TO FURTHER SUPPORT OUR SUPPLIERS IN PAYING A FAIR LIVING WAGE AND REDUCING OVERTIME YEAR-TO-YEAR
2.14 PILOT THE FAIR WAGE METHOD IN SELECTED ROLE MODEL FACTORIES 2016
2.15 IMPLEMENT FAIR WAGE METHOD TO COVER ALL STRATEGIC SUPPLIER FACTORIES 2018
2.16 ADVOCATE STRONGER WAGE LEGISLATION IN PRIORITY COUNTRIES YEAR-TO-YEAR
2.17 NEW – HELP ALIGN INDUSTRY APPROACH TOWARDS FAIR LIVING WAGES AND FORM A COLLABORATION PLATFORM WITH OTHER BRANDS AND THE GLOBAL UNION INDUSTRIALL 2015
2.18 CONTINUE STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIP WITH THE INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANISATION (ILO) YEAR-TO-YEAR
2.19 PROVIDE WORKERS AT H&M SUPPLIER FACTORIES WITH ACCESS TO SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMMES 2017
FOCUS – INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS
2.20 NEW – ENTER GLOBAL FRAMEWORK AGREEMENT WITH GLOBAL UNION INDUSTRIALL AND TOGETHER PROMOTE INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS GLOBALLY 2015
2.21 ENSURE DEMOCRATICALLY-ELECTED WORKPLACE REPRESENTATION AT ALL OF OUR STRATEGIC SUPPLIER FACTORIES 2018
2.22 EXPAND SOCIAL DIALOGUE PROJECT IN BANGLADESH TO REACH ALL SUPPLIER FACTORIES 2018
2.23 SUPPORT AN INCREASED NUMBER OF COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS AND IMPROVE THE INDUSTRIAL RELATION PROCESS IN CAMBODIA TOGETHER WITH THE ILO/IF METALL AND SIDA 2016
2.24 ENGAGE ALL STRATEGIC SUPPLIERS IN CHINA IN SOCIAL DIALOGUE PROJECT 2018
2.25 NEW – ENGAGE ALL STRATEGIC SUPPLIERS IN INDIA IN SOCIAL DIALOGUE PROJECT 2018
2.26 PROVIDE WORKERS AND MIDDLE MANAGERS IN SUPPLIER FACTORIES IN INDIA AND BANGLADESH WITH TRAINING ABOUT THEIR RIGHTS YEAR-TO-YEAR
*Done prior to publication of this report in early 2016.Performance overviewCOMMITMENT TWO – PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW30 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our missionOur mission
We have high expectations on our sup -
pliers in terms of quality, price, lead 
times and sustainability. That said, 
creating a sustainable supply chain 
starts with us. We need to choose the 
right suppliers from the start and know 
exactly where and under what condi -
tions production takes place. Through -
out our supplier partnerships, we must 
enable, promote and reward good per -
formance – way beyond securing mini -
mum requirements through standard 
audits. We want to be a good partner 
to our suppliers and jointly push the 
boundaries. We want to achieve lasting, 
systemic change within the factories 
and the communities around them. 
To achieve this, there are many chal -
lenges that need to be solved. Workers’ 
health and safety, fire and building 
safety, excessive overtime, wages, free -
dom of association, industrial relations, 
use of energy, water and chemicals 
to mention a few. Other specific local 
challenges in some of our key sourcing 
markets include so-called Sumangali 
schemes (a form of forced labour mainly 
present at Indian spinning mills), 
land rights in Ethiopia and Myanmar, 
or issues with fixed-term working We work with long-term suppliers  
and invest significant resources in strong 
sustainability  efforts throughout 
our supply chain .
contracts in Cambodia. These chal -
lenges require holistic solutions, all 
the way from factory level to systemic 
change in the industry and entire 
societies. 
While our supply chain management 
systems can support improvements, 
we need to continue to collaborate 
closely with our suppliers, govern -
ments, industry peers, NGOs, unions 
and other parties to jointly achieve 
lasting change. In doing so, we believe 
we can help create win-win situations. 
We can improve the lives of workers 
and the economic and social develop -
ment in their communities, and pro -
mote maturity and productivity in the 
textile industry. We can also create 
better business for suppliers in terms 
of long-term business commitment 
and growth opportunities, greater 
stability and reliability in our sourc -
ing markets and sustainable growth 
for H&M.COMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS
Focus: Supply chain management
31 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015About 1.6 million  
people work in our supplier 
factories and 60% of them 
are women .
30 June 2015CODE OF CONDUCT
Mandatory commitment to 
enter a business relationship 
with H&M.
Covers legal, social and 
environmental requirements.
Drawn up in 1997.FULL AUDIT PROGRAMME
Tool to monitor suppliers’
compliance against Code 
of Conduct.
Also focuses on management 
systems, capacity building 
and collaboration with external 
key participants.
Implemented in 2005.ICOC*
Measures suppliers’ 
sustainability performance. 
ICoC scores 0–100. 
Implemented in 2006.
SIPP**
A partnership approach to 
support suppliers in improving 
sustainability performance 
and drive positive impact 
in the value chain.
Tool to monitor suppliers’ 
compliance against the 
Sustainability Commitment.
Based on the Higg Index and 
additional quantitative data to 
assess suppliers’ sustainability 
performance from fundamental 
to aspirational level.
Replaced FAP by 1 July 2015.SUSTAINABILITY COMMITMENT
Mandatory commitment to enter 
a business relationship with H&M.
A holistic commitment beyond 
legal, social and environmental 
requirements.
2 levels of performance: 
fundamental and aspirational.
Widening data collection 
and giving ownership.
Replaced Code of Conduct 
by 1 Feb 2016.SUSTAINABILITY INDEX
Measures suppliers’ sustainability 
performance in:
1.  Compliance with fundamental  
 requirements.
2. Management system analysis. 
3. Impact KPIs and the   
 ambitiousness of goals
 our suppliers set against these.
Based on the Higg Index, 
complementary questions 
and KPIs.
Sustainability Index scores 0–100.
Replaces ICoC in 2016.
*Code of Conduct Index.
**Sustainable Impact Partnership Programme.COMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS
Focus: Supply chain management
Our over 2,600 colleagues in 21 pro -
duction offices around the world 
main   tain close relations with our 
suppliers. We are committed to work -
ing together with our suppliers on 
improvements. We focus on building 
strong, long-term relations character -
ised by trust and transparency and 
we systematically reward good perfor -
mance with better business in terms 
of long-term business commitment 
and growth opportunities. We offer 
strategic partnerships to our best sup -
pliers, providing mutual benefits such 
as joint capacity planning up to five 
years ahead. 
By being a good partner ourselves, 
setting clear demands and providing 
training and support as much as pos -
sible, we want to enable our suppliers 
to take ownership and improve their 
performance. This includes making 
sure that our purchasing practices 
and assessment procedures enable 
and encourage our suppliers not only 
to meet our demands, but better inte -
grate sustainability into their busi -
nesses and deliver their very best 
to us, our customers, their workers, 
their communities and their owners.Our strategy
As a significant step in this effort, we 
are building upon our previous Code 
of Conduct to adopt a holistic Sustain -
ability Commitment . Besides funda -
mental requirements on, for example, 
compliance with legal requirements 
and the ILO core conventions, our 
new Sustainability Commitment out  -
lines aspirational goals for suppliers 
to inte  grate into their businesses. 
Cor respon  dingly, we are moving away  
from standard compliance auditing  
to a partnership approach that encour -
ages transparency and enables us to 
capture performance beyond compli -
ance level and measure real impact. 
Over the last two years, we have deve -
loped a new programme for how to 
assess the sustainability performance 
of our suppliers and support them even 
better. We call this even stronger part -
nership approach SIPP (Sustainable 
Impact Partnership Programme). With 
SIPP we want to drive supplier owner -
ship, reward the extra mile, measure 
performance beyond compliance, and 
reflect that sustainability drives busi -
ness performance. 32 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015COMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS
Focus: Supply chain management
*Our supplier list displays all of our active suppliers 
available for quotation; however it is important 
to emphasise that not all of these suppliers are 
necessarily producing orders for H&M at present. 
Excluded are only factories that are currently 
undergoing a phase-out period according to our 
responsible phase-out standards. During this 
period, products can still be made in these facto -
ries to avoid loss of jobs, while the relationship 
is terminated either for sustainability or other 
business reasons. Not included are homeworkers 
who can perform specific tasks in compliance 
with our homeworkers’ guidelines.NO OF SUPPLIERS AND FACTORIES  
BY REGION (1ST TIER) 2015
Suppliers (all)
820
Far East
352South Asia
263EMEA 205Factories (all)
1,882
Far East
814South Asia
552EMEA 516
Of which  
strategic 
factories*
153Of which  
strategic  
factories*
681
*Including both manufacturing and processing factories.
One supplier can own or use (subcontract) one or more factories. 
Strategic partners are our preferred suppliers. Strategic factories 
are manufacturing or processing factories that are owned or used 
by our strategic partners. We regard owned and subcontracted 
factories the same way and treat them according to the same terms 
through our supply chain management strategy.We measure our suppliers' sustaina -
bility performance through our current 
Code of Index (ICoC). During 2016, 
ICoC will be replaced with a new Sus -
tainability Index, reflecting the broader 
cope of assessment in SIPP. It combines 
the compliance against fundamental 
requirements with results from man -
agement system analysis and the per -
formance against impact KPIs, as well 
as the ambitiousness of goals that our 
suppliers set against these. Based 
on their results, each factory is given 
a Sustainability Index score (0–100) 
which is clearly communicated and will 
be integrated in our purchasing rou -
tines. This way, we reward good sus -
tainability performance with better 
business (s. 2.3). Strong and long-term relations with 
suppliers allow us to publish our 
supplier factory list *. Our experience 
shows that this step incentivises our 
suppliers for increasingly taking own -
ership over their sustainability work 
as it, at the same time, recognises the 
progress they make. We also encourage 
our suppliers to report on their social 
and environmental impacts publicly 
and get involved with their local stake -
holders directly. 
The workers’ own view is undoubtedly 
central in this matter. Through our 
Full Audit Programme (FAP), we sys -
tematically conduct worker interviews 
and have completed a number of ano   n-
ymous worker surveys. Going forward,  
we will conduct worker surveys sys -
tematically and complement them with 
worker interviews conducted both 
randomly and when needed. We are 
providing our contact information 
to workers during factory visits so 
they can report complaints directly 
to us at any time. Our close collabora -
tion with representatives for the local 
trade unions is also an important 
channel. They receive business cards 
with contact information to distribute to workers as well and this is followed-
up by our local teams in the country, 
often in consultation with IndustriALL.
All notifications, regardless if they are 
reported anonymously or not, are being 
registered and become subjects for 
an investigation. It is our local sustain -
ability teams that are responsible for 
looking into each case. We have pro -
duction offices in all the countries 
where our products are being produced. 
We believe being present locally is a 
prerequisite to be able to have a close 
and well-functioning collaboration 
with local networks of trade unions. 
Prominent grievances raised by work -
ers’ representatives during 2015 con -
cerned issues related to freedom of  
association and discriminatory prac -
tices. 33 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious ActionsNEW 2.1 Transform our  
Code of Conduct into a  
Sustainability Commitment
TIMELINE STATUS
2015 DONE
To further improve the way we work, 
we have transformed our Code of 
Conduct from a compliance based 
approach to a Sustainability Com -
mitment  that, besides fundamental 
requirements, adds expectations 
and guidance for our suppliers to go  
beyond laws and international con -
ventions into more aspirational ones.  
For example, in addition to setting  
requirements for wastewater treat -
ment and water quality, the new 
commitment now takes a steward -
ship approach and covers water 
with  drawal and its impact on local 
communities and the environment. 
This encourages suppliers to develop 
their own strategies for tackling water 
challenges as well as providing incen -
tives to shift impacts from negative 
to positive.
The new Sustainability Commitment 
also clearly stresses our ambition in regards to fair living wages by stating 
that “a fair living wage should always 
be enough to meet the basic needs 
of employees and their families, and 
provide some discretionary income.” 
Good performance with regard to 
these additional elements will be 
integrated into our new Sustainability 
Index which is part of our supplier 
performance reviews and is closely 
linked to how much business we 
direct to a certain supplier (s. 2.3).
After gathering vital input from 
a variety of stakeholders, including 
suppliers, NGOs and multi-stake -
holder initiatives, we rolled out the 
Sustainability Commitment to our 
suppliers in the beginning of 2016. 
This remains a mandatory commit -
ment to enter a business relationship 
with H&M. 
>apparelcoalition.org
Social 
50%Social 
80%Environment 
20%Environment 
50%LEVEL 3 
LEADING PRACTICE  
/ASPIRATIONAL
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 
(Not scored)LEVEL 2
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
LEVEL 1 
COMPLIANCECOMPLIANCESIPP
Sustainability
Index
FAP
ICoCCODE OF CONDUCTSUSTAINABILITY COMMITMENTCOMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS
Focus: Supply chain management34 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious Actions2.2 Assess each of our supplier 
factories on their sustainabil -
ity performance 
TIMELINE STATUS
YEAR-TO-YEAR DONE
During 2015, we started the imple -
mentation of our new supplier sus -
tain  ability assessment programme 
SIPP (Sustainable Impact Partnership 
Programme). With this, we assess 
all our suppliers’ factories on a three 
levelled approach:
Level 1 : Compliance with funda -
mental requirements (such as legal 
requirements, the ILO core conven -
tions and other requirements similar 
to our previous Code of Conduct).
Level 2 : Existence and quality of 
management systems and setting 
of own sustainability performance 
goals. Management systems help to 
sustain compliance and establish a 
fundamental ground for leading prac -
tices and reaching aspirational goals.
Level 3 : Setting of and performance 
against aspirational targets based on defined KPIs such as energy reduc -
tion or community impacts.
We combine our suppliers’ perfor -
mance against these three levels in 
our new Sustainability Index, which 
during 2016 will fully replace our 
current Code of Conduct Index (ICoC). 
This new assessment method is based 
on the Higg Index, and some comple -
mentary questions and KPIs developed 
by H&M. The Higg Index is a holistic 
measurement standard with the aim 
of creating alignment, greater trans -
parency and better sustainability 
per formance across the apparel and 
footwear industry. It is developed 
by a broad range of brands (includ -
ing us), suppliers, NGOs, academia 
and many more through the Sustain -
able Apparel Coalition (SAC).
We are one of the first companies 
adopting this tool on large scale 
throughout our supply chain. When 
widely used by different brands, this 
will ultimately allow the benchmark -
ing of sustainability performance 
be tween factories and in turn save 
them time, by providing the same COMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS
Focus: Supply chain management
% OF SUPPLIER FACTORIES AUDITED  
DURING THE YEAR (1ST TIER)
82%84%80%
2015 2014 2013AVERAGE NO. OF AUDITS PER FACTORY
PER STRA TEGIC FACTORY
PER FACTORY
2015 2014 20131.3
Audits1.5
Audits1.4
Audits1.8
Audits1.5
Audits
1.3
Audits
35 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious ActionsCOMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS
Focus: Supply chain management
information as a base to their differ -
ent clients’ assessments, instead of 
undergoing multiple audits. 
The ambition with SIPP is the desire 
to change from a one-way compliance 
communication to a two-way dialogue 
about business improvement. The 
SIPP process begins with an on-site 
verification of minimum require -
ments. This is then followed by  
sup plier self-assessment focussed  
on management systems and in addi -
tion monthly data so we can track 
performance and KPIs over time. Self-
assessment is then validated, both 
desktop and on-site, conducted 
regularly by our sustainability team 
(s. 2.4).
 
With the greater insight to the data, 
we can focus our efforts within our 
capacity building programs. These 
programs represent all the supplier 
improvement activities within our 
roadmaps, such as water, climate 
and energy, fair living wages, indu -
strial relations and chemical man -
agement. The results on these  
programs help measure the impacts 
in our supply chain.Validation of the programme itself 
is built into SIPP, through systematic 
involvement of stakeholders. For 
ex ample, input from suppliers how 
to achieve progress is critical to 
partnership, likewise we need the 
workers’ voice in the conversation on 
how the industry is developing from 
a worker perspective. Worker surveys 
NO. OF AUDITS 2015
3rd party verifications (conducted by FLA): 14. 
* Joint assessments conducted during 1 June 2015 to 
30 Nov 2015, within our new sustainability assessment 
programme SIPP.SUPPLIER FACTORIES2ND TIER SUPPLIERSNON-COMMERCIAL GOODS SUPPLIERS
Joint 
assesments*
1,209
1,209 66Head audits
609
371172Follow-up 
audits
2,162
1,9765162
135Total audits
3,980
3,556307
Energy and climateChemicalsWaterFair living
wagesIndustrial
relations
H&M CAPACITY BUILDING PROGRAMMES
SELF-ASSESMENTS
PROGRAMME
VALIDATIONFACILITY 
VALIDATION
PERFORMANCEREPORTING 
H&M SUSTAINABLE IMPACT
PARTNERSHIP PROGRAMME?Suppliersmin
reqs
Stake-
holdersWorkers36 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious ActionsTODAY – ASSESSMENTH&M RESOURCESH&M RESOURCES
STATUS 
FACTORYVERIFY 
FACTORYIMPROVE 
FACTORYTRANSFORM 
INDUSTRYSTATUS 
FACTORYVERIFY 
FACTORYIMPROVE 
FACTORYTRANSFORM 
INDUSTRY
TOMORROW – IMPACTwill be conducted systematically and 
complemented by random individual 
interviews. In addition, we will have 
dialogue with other stakeholders such 
as NGOs, policy-makers, or govern -
ment agencies, to both monitor 
and support progress of the program 
on the ground. 
We conducted our first SIPP assess -
ments during the second half of 2015. 
This covered all of our first-tier sup -
plier factories and in 2016, we will 
*Audits according to previous Full Audit Programme 
(FAP) were conducted during 1 Dec 2014 to 31 May 2015. 
Thereafter our new programme SIPP was introduced. 
**In order to move from auditing to self-assessment, we 
conducted joint assessments at all our supplier factories 
to educate and secure the content and understanding 
of the assessments. Joint Assessment will be used continu -
ously for all new business partners to train and educate 
towards self-assessment.also include processing factories and nominated 
second-tier factories, such as fabric and yarn mills, 
and suppliers of non-commercial goods, such 
as advertising materials. The transition from our 
previous Full Audit Programme (FAP) will affect 
the comparability of audit figures and assessment 
results for 2015 and most likely also in our 2016 
reporting. 
In 2015, we assessed 80% of our supplier factories 
at least once in 3,556 audits according to our previ -
ous Full Audit Programme* (371 Head Audits and 
1,976 Follow-Up Audits) and 1,209 Assessments** 
following our new SIPP method. On average, each 
active first-tier factory was assessed 1.4 times (2014: 
1.5). To learn more about the auditing results, visit 
our web page and the supplier compliance levels 
in detail .
>apparelcoalition.org/the-higg-indexNO. OF WORKER  
INTERVIEWS CONDUCTED
Due to the transition to SIPP on 1 July 2015, data 
regarding no. of worker interviews conducted covers 
the period 1 Dec 2014 to 31 May 2015.2014 2015 2013 20129,815
Interviews11,549
Interviews13,695
Interviews
5,416 
InterviewsCOMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS
Focus: Supply chain management37 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious ActionsOur 153 strategic suppliers  
make approximately 60% of all 
of our products .
2.3 Reward good sustainabil -
ity performance with better 
business
TIMELINE STATUS
YEAR-TO-YEAR DONE
In order to maintain and incentivise 
good sustainability performance, we 
reward our suppliers with what they 
appreciate most: better business in  
terms of long-term business commit -
ment and growth opportunities. To  
meas  ure if we place more and bigger  
orders with better performing fac -
tories before others, we look at the 
Sustainability Index score* of each 
factory and weigh it against the order  
vol umes they have received from us. 
We then compare with the Sustain -
ability Index scores weighed by the 
available capacity in our entire factory 
base. The data of 2015 indicates a 
continued positive development, and 
we aim to maintain this year-to-year. We already integrated ICoC scores in 
our supplier grading a few years ago. 
Only those suppliers who demonstrate 
the best sustainability performance 
can become strategic partners. This 
type of partnership is win-win, for 
instance by securing stable business 
through long-term capacity planning 
up to five years ahead. Out of 820 
suppliers, 153 are preferred suppli -
ers (also called strategic partners) 
and make approximately 60% of our 
products. 
In turn, the close integration of sus -
tainability performance into our  
purchasing routines also allows us 
to reduce orders in the case where 
a supplier shows unwillingness 
to work with us on improvements. 
We are clearly committed to working 
together on improvements rather than 
terminating relationships. However, 
if a supplier repeatedly does not 
comply with our minimum require -
ments, we will, for example, reduce 
order volumes as a warning. As a last 
resort, we terminate our business 
relationship. In any such case, if 
it is for sustainability or any other 
business reason, we follow our *Our new Sustainability Index is 
gradually replacing our current Code 
of Conduct Index (ICoC) with a broader 
scope. By the end of the transition period 
(approx. end of 2016), each factory will 
have a Sustainability Index score (0–100).responsible phase-out standards. 
This allows the concerned supplier 
a certain transition period to find 
new clients in order to avoid job loss. 
 ICOC* WEIGHTED BY
SUPPLIER CAPACITY
2015 2013 201477.578.980.582.1
80.983.2ORDER VOLUME2.4 Ensure that all new sup -
plier factories are screened 
and audited before first order 
placement
TIMELINE STATUS
YEAR-TO-YEAR ON TRACK 
Before placing any orders, all sup -
pliers must sign our Sustainability 
Commitment  (which replaced our 
Code of Conduct on 1 Feb 2016) and 
undergo an initial self-assessment. 
If they pass, sustainability experts 
in our production offices conduct 
a thorough on-site verification to 
assess if the factory lives up to our 
minimum requirements and shows 
good potential to further improve 
their sustainability performance. 
Only then orders can be placed. This 
is the case whether a factory is owned 
directly by one of our suppliers or if 
it is subcontracted. By 2015, 97% of 
our supplier factories were assessed 
and verified before an order was 
placed (2014: 96%). The remaining 
3% were low risk factories, for exam -
ple in terms of product type as well 
as their geographic locations in coun -
tries such as Sweden and Portugal. *Code of Conduct Index.COMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS
Focus: Supply chain management
38 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious Actions2.5 Help prevent causes of 
non-compliance through man -
agement system analysis and 
capacity building
TIMELINE STATUS
YEAR-TO-YEAR DONE
We believe that effective management 
systems are a prerequisite for a strong 
sustainability performance. This is 
why we are now investing even more 
resources into helping our suppliers 
improve their management systems 
and train workers and management 
in order to strengthen their in-house 
capacities. This includes various areas, 
from recruitment systems that help 
prevent discrimination to effective 
grievance management and workplace 
safety. With the shift from our previ -
ous Code of Conduct Index (ICoC) to 
our new Sustainability Index, we are 
integrating scores for the effective -
ness of each factory’s management 
systems closely into our purchasing 
routines (s. 2.6). 
In 2015, we conducted 1,921 manage -
ment system analyses (2014: 2,055). 
Together with about 1,565 other activities (such as training sessions 
and workshops) and our factory audits 
and assessments, each factory was 
subject to an average of 3.0 (strategic 
factories 3.6) activities aiming to sup -
port them in further improving their 
sustainability performance.* 
>hm.com/beyondmonitoring
*The decrease in 2015 is explained by our focused 
work of developing a new assessment method, the 
Sustainable Impact Partnership Programme (SIPP).AVERAGE NO.  
OF SUSTAINABILITY ACTIVITIES 
STRA TEGIC FACTORIES
ALL FACTORIES
3.7
3.6
3.03.8
3.43.6
2014 2015* 2013COMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS
Focus: Supply chain management
2.6 Update our strategy 
for sustainable purchasing 
practices to ensure fair busi -
ness partnerships with our 
suppliers
TIMELINE STATUS
2016 ON TRACK
One important step in the work 
to wards fair living wages is making 
sure that buyers, such as H&M, have 
purchasing practices that support 
suppliers in implementing fair liv -
ing wages. At H&M, we are further 
improving our purchasing practices 
founded on our relationships with 
suppliers, enabling and incentivising 
the business environment in a way 
that facilitates suppliers taking own -
ership of future investments in the 
workforce, i.e. skills development, 
sustainability performance as well 
as direct wage improvement areas. 
Our purchasing practices should make 
it possible to fulfil our business idea 
and give long-term benefits to work -
ers, suppliers, customers and the 
environment.
With a yearly global supplier survey and meetings with all of our vendors, 
we can learn what we need to improve. 
One important aspect is their percep -
tion of us as fair business partner. 
Since 2014, suppliers’ perception of 
H&M as a fair business partner has 
increased from 76.2% to 84.2% (2015).
We also know that the buying and 
sourcing pattern is far from stand -
ardised and still contains challenges 
that are too complex for a single actor 
to solve. Therefore, we are actively 
engaged with other brands through 
the industry platform ACT (s. 2.17). 
Here, different brands discuss and 
collaborate to find common ground 
and synergies to overcome some of 
the challenges in a globalised supply 
chain. % OF SUPPLIERS THAT SEE H&M  
AS A FAIR BUSINESS PARTNER 
2015 201476%84%2018
(Goal)
90%Our purchasing practices  should 
make it possible to fulfil our business idea 
and give long-term benefits to workers, 
suppliers, customers and the 
environment .39 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious Actions2.7 Follow up on initial 
inspections as per the 
Bangladesh Accord on Fire 
and Building Safety, ensure 
remediation and enroll 
new factories in the Accord 
Inspection Programme
TIMELINE STATUS
ONGOING MORE TO DO
We see the Bangladesh Accord on 
Fire and Building Safety as a valuable 
complement to our existing sustain -
ability programme and an important 
contribution to the ongoing sub -
stantial transformation of the textile 
indu  stry in Bangladesh. Many im  -
portant improvements have been  
achieved, but more needs to be done 
by all actors involved to implement 
the requirements of the Accord and 
to help promote the maturity of the 
entire industry.
Today, some 200 brands have signed 
the Accord and it now covers about 
1,600 of the around 5,000 garment 
factories in Bangladesh. The Accord 
performs independent factory inspec -
tions for three different key areas: fire risks, electrical installations and 
structural conditions of the building. 
The Accord currently lists 265 facto -
ries* that are, or have been part, of 
H&M’s supply chain. Accordingly, all 
of them have undergone these inspec -
tions and any potential new supplier 
factories are being integrated into 
the inspection and, where needed, 
remediation procedures implemen -
ted. The remaining factories listed 
in our supplier list but not yet listed 
by the Accord are either new sup -
plier facto  ries pending inspection or 
facilities not covered by the Accord 
(mainly processing units). Also, fac -
tories inspected by the Alliance for 
Bangladesh Worker Safety are not 
listed by the Accord but included in 
our supplier list, which explains the 
discrepancy between the two lists.
All of our supplier factories have been 
approved for operation by the Accord. 
However, as for most factories covered 
by the Accord, our supplier factories also require further improvements, 
such as the replacement of sliding 
doors with new fire exit doors. Such 
needs for improvement are described 
in Corrective Action Plans (CAPs) 
issued by the Accord. These are pub -
licly available on the Accord website 
for each factory. 
At the time of reporting, even though 
overall progress is moving favoura -
bly,** many of our suppliers are facing 
delays, particularly for structural im   -
provements. Delays are less frequent  
for improvements on electrical instal  -
lations and fire risks. While fin  an cial 
support is confirmed to be secured 
wherever needed, reasons for delays 
can vary and are often due to limited 
availability of required technical 
equipment or a shortage of qualified 
engineering consultancies and con -
tractors. 
We are fully committed to ensuring 
the timely implementation of all 
Corrective Action Plans at all of our 
supplier factories moving forward 
and will continue to follow up on this 
closely, providing support wherever 
it is needed.**By 20 Nov 2015, the Accord reported 57% 
of identified issues in H&M supply chain 
as corrected (59% for initial findings and 
48% for issues identified on follow-up visits). 
No H&M supplier factories were catego -
rised as “CAP not implemented,” have any 
pending needs for immediate actions (pri -
ority 1) ac   cording to the Accord or are listed 
for business termination by the Accord. 
For the current status, please check the 
Accord website.*The Accord only covers the factories 
of garment manufacturers. This explains 
the discrepancy when compared to our 
public supplier list.We’re fully committed  to 
ensuring the timely implementation  
of all Corrective Action Plans  at 
all of our supplier factories .Focus: Supply chain managementCOMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS
>bangladeshaccord.org  
>bangladeshworkersafety.org  
>National Tripartite Plan of Action on Fire Saftey40 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Myanmar has attracted international attention 
over the past few years for slowly opening up to 
demo  cratisation processes and many have called 
for businesses such as the fashion industry to sup -
port this development by directing orders to the 
country. How do you see this development?
With recent developments, Myanmar has the poten -
tial to provide an environ  ment in which poverty 
and inequality can be tackled. Labour laws have been 
updated and a minimum wage intro  duced. Oxfam 
works to open up demo   cratic space for people to voice 
their concerns to local government, push for better 
policies and increase government accountability. 
Besides the prospects of development – what are 
the main challenges in Myanmar?
Oxfam’s 2015 report, Made in Myanmar: entrenched 
poverty or decent jobs for garment workers?  docu -
mented serious issues for women workers, from 
pun ishingly long working hours to poverty wages 
and harsh treatment. Worryingly, fire safety was 
a concern, despite the collapse of Rana Plaza in 
neighbouring Bangladesh.
Do you think that fashion companies should stay 
away from Myanmar?
In Oxfam’s view, responsible private sector invest -
ment has a pivotal role in helping people break 
free of poverty and inequality, but evidence from 
our report suggests that investment in Myanmar’s 
garment sector does not seem to have this effect at What would you like to see from 
H&M in the future?
We would like to see H&M bring into its 
sourcing strategy the quality of gover -
nance in sourcing countries, including 
how close the minimum wage is to a 
living wage, selecting suppliers whose 
purpose and values make them likely 
to drive change and ensuring H&M’s 
business practices enable this.Interview with Rachel Wilshaw, Ethical Trade Manager, Oxfam GB
the moment. H&M could and should 
play a leading role in changing this.
From your perspective, what should 
those companies that are sourcing 
from Myanmar do to contribute 
to positive development for workers 
and the country?
Companies, together with government, 
must take responsibility for ensuring 
that decent work becomes the norm, 
not the exception. This means both 
effective supply chain management 
and making clear H&M’s expectations 
of the roles played by government and 
by independent trade unions.
How do you see H&M’s performance 
in this regard? 
Oxfam welcomed the ‘living wage 
roadmap’ in 2013 because it showed 
an understanding of the roles of 
gov ernments and elected workers’ 
representatives as well as suppliers. 
H&M is also relatively transparent 
and showed leadership in Myanmar. 
However, the pace and scale of change 
have been disappointingly slow.COMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS
Focus: Supply chain management41 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious Actions2.9 Integrate second-tier 
supplier factories involved 
in making at least 50% of our 
products into our sustainabil -
ity assessments 
TIMELINE STATUS
2015 DONE
Taking a holistic approach to our 
value chain, we are extending our 
knowledge and influence over second-
tier supplier factories such as fabric 
and yarn mills. Our Lifecycle Assess -
ments show that fabric production 
represents major environmental 
impacts, for instance, 36% of the cli -
mate impact of a garment’s lifecycle 
occurs at this stage. Since several 
years back, we have been working 
continuously on a development 
pro gram to help mills reduce these 
impacts.
In 2013, we started to request infor -
mation about the fabric and yarn 
source for each order placed. Now we 
are working to integrate more and 
more of the fabric and yarn/spinning 
mills in our value chain into our 
sustainability assessments and also 2.8 Implement training 
against forced labour together 
with Ethical Trading Initiative 
(ETI) at Indian spinning mills   
TIMELINE STATUS
2017 ON TRACK
In 2013, H&M joined the Ethical 
Trading Initiative (ETI) programme 
to address exploitative labour prac  -
tices in Tamil Nadu’s garment and 
textile sector, in particular those asso -
ciated with the Sumangali scheme. 
This three-year programme aims 
to catalyse positive change within 
the industry through activities that 
empower young female workers, 
strengthen industrial relations, build 
community awareness and support 
legislative reform. This will have 
a direct positive impact on 45,000 
young women, and thousands more 
will benefit indirectly. 
Initially H&M had one mill con -
nected to the program, but due to 
business reasons we stopped work -
ing with them during 2015. How -
ever, we remain in this important 
programme. So far, eight spinning mills and five manufacturing units 
are enrolled in the program where 
some have finished phase 1, “Health 
education” or have just started during 
latter half of 2015. At the beginning 
of 2016, a new round of invitations 
went out to our mill partners to join 
the pro  gram, and we strongly pro -
moted participation. The second 
phase of the program will address 
workers’ rights.
Meanwhile, the community outreach 
programme has reached approxi -
mately 150,000 people through the 
help of eight NGOs. These activities 
have focused on awareness of workers’ 
rights, but also on supporting affected 
workers. 
>ethicaltrade.orginto our supplier relationship manage -
ment strategy, just as our first-tier 
supplier factories. 
Our goal for 2015 was to cover the 
mills involved in making at least 50% 
of our products. We achieved this 
goal (2015: 51%, 2014: 35%, 2013: 20%) 
and are now aiming for 60% by 2016. 
Most of these mills had never been 
exposed to any demands or compli -
ance standards from brands, so some 
of our challenges involve education 
and developing a mutual understand -
ing. In turn, this provides a great 
opportunity for improvement and 
for competitive advantages.
% OF PRODUCTS MADE WITH FABRIC/YARN 
FROM AUDITED FABRIC/YARN MILLS
2015 2014 201320%36%51%COMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS
Focus: Supply chain management42 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious ActionsOur Conscious Actions
2.11 Develop updated strategy 
to promote high environmen -
tal, social and animal welfare 
standards in leather production
TIMELINE STATUS
2015 MORE TO DO 
Leather products can require intense 
chemical treatment that can affect 
both the environment and workers. 
Therefore we joined the Leather 
Work   ing Group (LWG) in 2009. 
Tan  neries must comply with high 
environmental standards before 
being graded by the group. This is 
why our goal has been to gradually 
increase the use of leather that is 
either graded by the LWG or certified 
organic. However, these currently do 
not cover all critical issues in leather 
production, such as key labour, health 
and safety and animal welfare aspects. 
In 2015, we decided to focus our 
efforts on reworking our strategy for 
leather products and also take these 
aspects into account to secure the 
best possible outcome. Therefore, 
we are not actively sourcing leather 
from LWG suppliers, which explains 2.10 Update our public sup -
plier factory list to include 
the first second-tier factories
TIMELINE STATUS
YEAR-TO-YEAR DONE*
Transparency is key to our supply 
chain management and can be a cat -
alyst for positive change. It is also a 
good way to incentivise our suppliers 
for the progress they make during 
our partnership. We were one of the 
first fashion brands to publish our 
supplier factory list, covering close 
to 100%** of our production volume, 
and even factories that are subcon -
tracted by our suppliers for specific 
tasks such as washing, embroidery 
or printing. 
In 2015, we expanded the scope of 
the list further and as the first major 
fashion brand we now communicate 
the names and locations of the most 
important mills that provide our sup -
pliers with fabrics and yarns. In line 
with our progress in integrat  ing such 
second-tier factories into our assess -
ment systems, we are expanding this 
list even further to also include fabric and yarn mills involved in making 
about 60% of our products in 2016. 
We hope that this will continue to 
promote transparency and drive fur -
ther positive change in our industry.
>hm.com/supplierlistthe decrease in certified leather shoes 
from 38% in 2014 to 15% in 2015. 
We continue our work to promote 
the use of the certifications. As part 
of this we are focused on adding 
social criteria as well as animal wel -
fare standards. We are also further 
developing related tools such as a 
closer integration of leather tanner -
ies into our assessment and supply 
chain management systems as well 
as improved material traceability. 
During 2015, all the strategic tanner -
ies in India and China were audited 
by our teams on their environmental 
and social conditions. During 2016, 
we will extend this to Europe as well. 
The roll-out of the updated strategy 
is planned to take place in 2016 or 
early 2017. 
>leatherworkinggroup.com*Done prior to publication of this report 
in early 2016.
**Our supplier list displays all of our active 
suppliers available for quotation; however, 
it is important to emphasise that not all of 
these suppliers are necessarily producing 
orders for H&M at present. Excluded are 
only factories that are currently undergo -
ing a phase-out period according to our 
responsible phase-out standards. During 
this period, products can still be made in 
these factories to avoid job losses, while 
the relationship is terminated either for 
sustainability or other business reasons. 
Not included are homeworkers who can 
perform specific tasks in compliance with 
our homeworkers’ guidelines.We are the first major fashion 
brand  to communicate  the 
names and locations  of the most 
important mills  providing our 
suppliers with fabrics and yarns.
The figure of 2014 has been corrected due to improved 
calculations.% OF LEATHER SHOES MADE  
WITH CERTIFIED LEATHER
49%
38%
27%
15.4%
2014 2015 2012 2013COMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS
Focus: Supply chain management43 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious Actions2.12 Further increase 
sustainability performance  
at all supplier factories
TIMELINE STATUS
YEAR-TO-YEAR DONE
Ultimately, our supply chain manage -
ment should help our suppliers to  
improve their performance and create  
a positive impact for the liveli   hood 
of their about 1.6 million work  ers and 
their communities. Up until mid-2015, 
we measured each supplier factory’s 
sustainability performance through 
our Code of Conduct Index (ICoC) . 
ICoC scores from 1 Dec 2014 to 31 May 
2015 continued to increase to 82.2 
(max. score: 100, 2014: 81.0, 2013: 
77.8), which shows continued positive 
development amongst our supplier 
factories. 
During 2015, we started to replace 
this rather compliance focused index 
with our new Sustainability Index, 
which takes a far broader view of 
the sustainability impacts and per -
formance of our suppliers (s. 2.2). 
Our Sustainability Index is based 
on the Higg Index, developed by the Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC). 
We hope that the Higg Index will 
allow alignment on how to assess 
supplier sustainability performance 
and ultimately create full transpar -
ency and benchmarking opportuni -
ties for all stakeholders concerned. 
Moving from one index to a new one 
will, however, require a transition 
period during which our supplier 
factories will undergo assessments 
based on our new assessment pro -
gramme SIPP (s. 2.2). We expect the 
transition to continue throughout 
2017. We are looking forward to 
sharing this and further supplier 
impact data in our 2016 report.
You can find a detailed breakdown 
of our supplier factories’ compliance 
with all of the over 200 items from 
our previous Full Audit Programme 
questionnaire here . 
PROGRESS IN FACTORY  
SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE  
(IN ICOC* SCORES)
*Code of Conduct Index.
Data collected during the period 1 Dec 2014 to 31 May 2015 
according to our previous Full Audit Programme (FAP).
Please find an independent assurance statement 
related to GRI AF14 on p 123.STRA TEGIC FACTORIES
ALL FACTORIES
77.779.180.182.783.6
76.577.3 77.881.082.2
2012 2013 2014 2015 2011COMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS
Focus: Supply chain management44 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our mission
Every gar  ment worker should earn 
enough to make a decent living. This 
is something we want to ensure across 
the industry and in all of our sourcing 
markets, but the challenges along the 
way are complex. We believe that col -
lective bargaining is the best way to 
define wages, but in many markets, 
workers have very limited possi  bilities 
to negotiate wages collectively. Where, 
for example, legal minimum wages or 
the systems to define them are not yet 
sufficient, we need to find solutions 
that, in the meantime, can ensure that 
individual factories can pay fair living 
wages to their workers without put  ting 
their business and jobs at risk. 
One challenge is that factories often 
work for many different brands. In a 
situation where only one or a few brands 
request fair living wages, it is still nec -
essary to ensure that the wages of the 
factory workers are not dependent on 
their employer’s cus  tomers. Income 
equality also needs to be seen in rela -
tion to other sectors and the impact  
on labour markets and employment. 
It is also important that governments 
feel confident that buyers will stay when 
fair living wages are implemented.  COMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS
Focus: Fair living wages
The challenges are complex but the 
aim is clear: a fair living wage across 
the textile industry.GOVERNMENTS
Continue to engage governments 
in wages and freedom of association 
following a strategic engagement plan.
BRANDS (such as H&M)
Continually make sure that the prices we pay our suppliers 
enable them to pay fair living wages to their workers. 
By 2015 , develop additional tools to systematically ensure 
this also when wages increase in the future.
By 2018 , reach our goal for 90% of our suppliers to regard 
H&M as a fair business partner (2014: 76%).FACTORY OWNERS
By 2014 , start piloting the Fair Wage Method 
in three model factories and evaluate outcome. 
By 2018 , all of H&M’s strategic suppliers should 
have improved pay structures for fair living  
wages in place. FACTORY EMPLOYEES
By 2013 , launch Industrial Relations project in Cambodia. 
By 2015 , expand Social Dialogue project in Bangladesh 
to 30% of H&M suppliers, with the intention 
of reaching 100% by 2018.
By 2018 , ensure democratically-elected workplace 
representation at all of our strategic supplier 
factories globally.
FAIR  
LIVING WAGES
in the textile industryOur goal  is clear: 
a fair living wage  across 
the textile industry .45 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 201539.3%59.5%68.9%74.7%
32.4%
19.3%29.0%
25.3%
20.1%71.4%
39.2%40.9%70.9%
46.1%Our strategy
We developed our Fair Living Wage roadmap in close 
consultation with a variety of stakeholders and our 
Wage Advisory Board consisting of NGOs, unions 
and other experts in this field. Based on this, a fair 
living wage should at the very least cover workers’ 
basic needs and a discretionary income. It should be 
enabled through our purchasing practices and based 
on a skilled workforce with wage reviews on an 
annual basis. It should also be negotiated on at least 
the factory level, involving trade unions or at least 
democratically-elected worker representatives. In 
order to achieve this, we need to work at several ends.
Our focus is on catalysing systemic change, both 
in our supplier factories as well as in the concerned 
markets as a whole. We are working to lay the ground 
for long-term, sustainable wage development, beyond 
individual factories. While this will require more 
time, we are convinced that this is the right way 
forward.
As part of that, we need to ensure that our purchas -
ing practices support our suppliers in implementing 
fair living wages. And we need to work with our sup -
pliers to implement the required pay structures and 
systems. These are defined through the Fair Wage 
Method, developed by the independent Fair Wage 
Network. To achieve this, we are working with our 
suppliers to deliver best practice examples and gradu -
ally scale them up. We are focusing on our strategic 
suppliers to start with. Our goal is for all of them COMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS
Focus: Fair living wages
MONTHLY AVERAGE WAGES AT H&M SUPPLIER FACTORIES VS. APPLICABLE MINIMUM WAGES IN SELECTED COUNTRIES IN USD*
AVERAGE WAGE
MINIMUM WAGE
Bangladesh Cambodia China 
(Guangdong Province) India 
(Bangalore)Indonesia Turkey Vietnam2012176389
2013183385
2014183442
2015210515
201291100
201391115
2014109119
2015114129
201284134
2013104149
2014132154
2015144161
2012301383
2013370475
2014404521
2015424533
201289103
2013123
104
2014153
120
2015176
130
20124261
20134264
201479
201585
67 67
201290
83
20139799
2014117137
2015145152
*Data based on audit results from 
randomly selected factories in each 
country/region. Based on basic wages 
excl. overtime for machine operators, 
who are usually the largest group of 
employees. In China, piece-rate systems 
often apply, hence wage data for China 
is not fully comparable to other markets. 
Figures are converted to USD using 
comparable exchange rates.AVERAGE WAGE
MINIMUM WAGE
Bangladesh Cambodia China 
(Guangdong Province) India 
(Bangalore)Indonesia Turkey VietnamAVERAGE WAGE INCREASES AT H&M SUPPLIER FACTORIES AND APPLICABLE MINIMUM WAGES IN % FROM 2012 TO 2015*46 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Focus: Fair living wages
to implement improved pay structures 
such as the Fair Wage Method by 2018 
at the latest. 
To assess the progress made, we are 
asking the workers themselves in 
regu  lar surveys conducted by third 
parties such as the Fair Wage Network. 
In par  allel, we are closely following 
the development of minimum wages, 
average wages as well as real wages 
for each market. But to achieve lasting 
changes, we also need to look beyond 
individual factory walls. We believe that 
ultimately all of the people working in 
the textile industry should be able to 
influence their wages and working con -
ditions in regular and fair negotiations 
with their employers. 
We share the view of the global union 
IndustriALL that industry bargain -
ing is key to achieve fair living wages. 
That is one of the reasons we joined 
forces with them and a number of other 
brands in a new collaboration called 
ACT (Action, Collaboration, Transfor -
mation). ACT aims to improve wages by 
bringing together key actors to promote 
collective bargaining and the continued 
development of responsible purchasing practices (s. 2.13). ACT members have signed a Memo -
randum of Understanding with IndustriALL, and 
together we set a common agenda for how to reach 
a Fair Living Wage.
This goes well in line with our Fair Living Wage 
roadmap and our dedicated industrial relations 
strategy, aiming to assist both workers and employ -
ers developing the required structures and knowl -
edge and actively support the right to collective 
bargaining (p. 51).
We are also continuing to involve governments and 
other stakeholders to promote systemic change across 
communities and the textile industry. As an impor -
tant part of this, we are committed to markets where 
fair living wages are implemented while we are also 
supporting markets in remaining competitive. We are 
also prepared to reflect increasing costs resulting 
from wage increases in our sourcing prices where this 
is needed. With this holistic approach covering brands 
like H&M, factory owners, factory employees and 
governments, we are taking a lead in promoting fair 
living wages for garment workers – not only in our 
supply chain, but across the entire industry.
>hm.com/fairlivingwage  
>fair-wage.com/  
>industriall-union.orgCOMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS
47 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious Actions2.13 Continue to develop 
our purchasing practices to 
further support our suppliers 
in paying a fair living wage 
and reducing overtime
TIMELINE STATUS
YEAR-TO-YEAR ON TRACK
Ensuring that our purchasing prac -
tices and the prices we pay our sup -
pliers enable them to pay fair living 
wages to their workers is a central 
element of our Fair Living Wage 
strategy. We are committed to reflect 
wage increases in our pricing where 
this is needed and we are constantly 
developing our tools to secure this 
systematically. As suppliers usually 
work for multiple brands, it is very 
important to harmonise the under -
standing of and approaches to 
im proving purchasing practices 
with other brands. 
This is why we have joined forces 
with a number of other brands and 
the global union IndustriALL in 
the industry platform ACT (s. 2.17). 
Additionally, and in close collabora -
tion with our suppliers, we are constantly improving our purchasing 
planning tools to reduce production 
peaks and thereby help our suppliers 
to better plan their capacity and 
reduce overtime. 
This results in transparency between 
us and suppliers regarding the major 
costing blocks of each order. Curren -
tly, we are working on refining this 
so we more accurately can under  stand 
the labour costs associated with each 
order. This will support us in mak -
ing sure that any wage increases are 
properly reflected in the prices we pay 
our suppliers. As wages cannot be 
regarded without also addressing 
the industry-wide issue of overtime 
hours, we are also further optimis -
ing our planning routines to help 
suppliers achieve more stable capac -
ity utilisation and (staff) planning 
security (s. 2.16).COMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS
Focus: Fair living wages
2.14 Pilot the Fair Wage 
Method in selected role model 
factories
TIMELINE STATUS
2016 ON TRACK
In 2013, we started the process of 
testing the Fair Wage Method in 
three model factories, one in Cambo -
dia and two in Bangladesh. Together 
with these factories, we want to set 
best practice examples for the indus  -
try and show that leadership in sus -
tainability, including paying a fair  
living wage, can go well together with 
best business performance. As part 
of this, we guaranteed these factories 
100% capacity usage for us for five 
years to avoid any business risks for 
them. 
In 2015, we did a second year evalua -
tion of the role model factory in Cam -
bodia. When we started the project, 
the factory was a quite typical one 
for the Cambodian textile industry; 
with needs to improve pay structures, 
social dialogue and overtime hours. 
However, there is also a strong will 
to improve the way they run business. To understand their progress, we 
went through large amounts of data, 
talked to the management and the 
Fair Wage Network conducted an 
anonymous detailed survey amongst 
the workers, a so-called fair wage 
assessment. One of the main drivers 
for this has been the implementation 
of wage grids that transparently link 
wage levels and skills. At the same 
time, overtime continued to decrease 
without resulting in less take-home 
pay for the workers. Productivity 
continued to improve and the factory 
also showed an improved economic 
performance and growth, which ultimately has resulted in an addi -
tional 250 jobs since implementing 
the Fair Wage Method. 
The other two model factories in 
Bangladesh started to implement the 
Fair Wage Method in mid-2014 and 
the first year follow-up assessment 
took place in the third quarter of 
2015. Even though implementation 
of new wage grids and pay structures 
was not complete at that stage, we 
could still see clear and positive 
development.
>fair-wage.com48 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious Actions2.15 Implement Fair Wage 
Method to cover all strategic 
supplier factories
TIMELINE STATUS
2018 ON TRACK
We have now taken a big first step in 
lifting the Fair Wage Method to scale, 
building on the promising outcomes 
and what we have learned from the 
Fair Wage method in our three role 
model factories (s. 2.14). During 2015, 
68 of our strategic supplier factories 
in China, Bangladesh and Cambodia 
enrolled in the Fair Wage Method 
and by the end of 2016, we expect 
to see the first results. 
For 2016, we will continue scaling up 
by adding 78 more factories in Indo -
nesia, India and Turkey. Our goal is 
to reach all of our strategic supplier 
factories by 2018 at the latest. 
The Fair Wage Method defines 12 
dimensions of wages that need to be 
in place in order to make a fair living 
wage. For example, this includes 
ensuring that wages cover workers’ 
basic needs and a discretionary income, reflect their skills and are 
negotiated in a fair process involving 
the workers and their representa -
tives. It has been developed by the 
independent Fair Wage Network 
under the leadership of Daniel 
Vaughan-Whitehead, professor at 
Sciences Po in Paris and Manager 
of Wages and Incomes Policy at the 
International Labour Organisation 
(ILO). We teamed up with the Fair 
Wage Network in 2011. As part of this, 
the Fair Labour Association (FLA) 
conducts independent annual worker 
surveys and fair wage assessments 
in all supplier factories that imple -
ment the fair wage method to assess 
the progress and the workers’ per -
ception of their wages. 
>hm.com/fairlivingwage  
>fair-wage.com
368146
*Manufacturing factories.NO. OF STRATEGIC SUPPLIER  
FACTORIES* WITH IMPROVED PAY 
STRUCTURES IMPLEMENTED
2016
(goal)2018
(goal)2015 2014We are committed to markets  where 
fair living wages are implemented  
while we also support  markets in 
remaining competitive . COMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS
Focus: Fair living wages
2.16 Advocate stronger wage 
legislation in priority countries
TIMELINE STATUS
YEAR-TO-YEAR ON TRACK
Systemic change cannot be achieved 
by one company alone. The ambition 
must be for all garment workers in the 
industry – not just in our supplier 
factories – to earn a fair living wage. 
In order to ensure income equality 
and competition-neutral playing 
fields, the governments concerned 
need to strengthen their legal frame -
works such as regular wage revisions 
and functioning industrial relations. 
This is why we, from the beginning 
of the development of our Fair Living 
Wage roadmap, have also taken the 
importance of involving governments 
in the process into account and sent 
a clear signal to them: we are com -
mitted to markets where fair living 
wages are implemented while we 
also support markets in remaining 
competitive. 
To expand these efforts strategically, 
we are following annual engagement 
plans for four priority countries: Bangladesh, Cambodia, Myanmar 
and Ethiopia. These countries have 
been chosen due to great potential 
and needs for government actions 
on wage issues. We are engaging 
with the concerned governments 
on various levels both directly and 
indirectly through partners such 
as the ILO and multi-stakeholder 
initiatives. The aim is to support 
stronger minimum wage legislation, 
for example, in the form of annual 
minimum wage revisions, and to 
strengthen the legal framework 
and reinforce the right to freedom 
of association. 
All 
strategic 
supplier 
factories*49 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious ActionsNEW 2.17 Help align industry 
approach towards fair living 
wages and form a collabora -
tion platform with other 
brands and the global union 
Industri  ALL
TIMELINE STATUS
2015 DONE
As a single brand, we are willingly 
on the cutting edge – but we cannot 
do the job alone. Besides governments 
and international organisations such 
as the ILO and trade unions, other 
brands play a vital role too. To create 
a critical mass in the textile industry 
and help governments and suppliers 
feel secure that increasing minimum 
wages will not necessarily result in 
a loss of competitiveness for their eco  -
nomies, several brands need to pull 
in the same direction. 
Over the last two years, together with 
more than ten other brands, we have 
aligned our shared visions that all 
workers in the industry should earn 
fair living wages. We have recognised 
the need for even more industry 
collaboration to make this a reality in a joint set of what we called the 
Enabling Principles. 
During 2015, we moved this forward 
into a formal collaboration together 
with the global union IndustriALL 
called ACT (Action, Collaboration, 
Transformation). The purpose is to 
make concrete progress towards fair 
living wages in garment-producing 
countries. This requires a responsi -
ble, competitive textile industry that 
invests in its workforce. ACT brands 
are working together with Industri -
ALL on a shared vision and strategy 
to improve wages in the textile indu -
stry through industry-level collec -
tive bargaining supported by world 
class manufacturing stand  ards and “We are working in a way that we 
have never been able to before, 
with brands that want to make  
a difference.”  
Jenny Holdcroft, Policy Director, IndustriALL
responsible buying practices. In Sep  -
tember 2015, ACT members and  
IndustriALL met with key stakehold -
ers, including suppliers, trade union 
representatives, govern  ments, GMAC 
and the ILO, to discuss the initiative, 
and explore whether and how it could 
be applicable to Cambodia.
>industriall-union.org/industry-bargaining-  
for-living-wagesCOMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS
Focus: Fair living wages
50 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious Actions2.18 Continue strategic 
partnership with the Interna -
tional Labour Organisation 
(ILO)
TIMELINE STATUS
YEAR-TO-YEAR ON TRACK
To achieve global change, we need 
strong partners. That’s why in 2014, 
we entered into a unique partner -
ship with the ILO to promote sus -
tainable supply chains in the textile 
industry on a global, national and 
enterprise level. 
During 2015, our collaboration 
around the ILO Decent Work agenda 
has resulted in joint projects for 
Ethiopia and Myanmar, which are 
planned to be launched during 2016. 
The projects are expected to create 
regular dialogue forums, bringing 
governments and representative 
organisations of business, workers 
and suppliers together in order to 
collectively tackle common and urgent 
problems in the sector.2.19 Provide workers at 
H&M supplier factories with 
access to skills development 
programmes
TIMELINE STATUS
2017 ON TRACK
Skills development is key for work  - 
ers to increase their wages. It is also 
essential for a developing textile 
industry and ultimately, for our future 
growth. The challenge is that often 
skills are not sufficiently reflected 
in workers’ wages. A highly-skilled 
worker may still be employed in a 
low-income job category. For those 
workers, this means few incentives 
to further improve their skills and 
a source of frustration and less devel -
opment of the industry. Another chal -
lenge is that workers who may want 
to advance do not have access to skills 
certification, or they do not know 
about it or how to gain access to it.
Our goal is that all workers at H&M 
supplier factories should have access 
to relevant skills development pro -
grammes – and have employment and 
a wage that reflect their skills. As part of this, we teamed up with the ILO 
and and the Swedish International 
Development Cooperation Agency 
(Sida) in Bangladesh already in 2013. 
In a joint centre of excellence, we aim 
to train 5,000 factory employees until 
the end of 2016. So far, 1,180 students 
have been trained. The training and 
skills development are showing 
prom  ising results with an emerging 
structure of uniform skills certifica -
tions, a growing number of Enterprise 
Based Trainings (EBT) and a steadily 
growing qualified number of workers. 
This ensures a stable growth of 
skilled workers. 
>ilo.org  
>sida.se
COMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS
Focus: Fair living wages51 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our strategy Our missionWe believe that functioning industrial 
relations and collective bargaining are 
the ultimate keys to achieving fair 
living wages and good working condi -
tions in our supply chain. They also 
help to create stable sourcing markets 
and sustainable economic growth in 
these countries. Our Sustainability 
Commitment  (previously our Code of 
Conduct) requires that all of our sup -
pliers respect the right to freedom of 
association. However, many markets 
lack sufficient systems. For example, 
in China and Vietnam, freedom of 
association is restricted by law, whereas 
in Cambodia, union representation is 
common but negotiations often result 
in conflicts. While we are realistic 
about the fact that there is a long way 
to go until fair and functioning indus -
trial relations processes are in place 
throughout, this is the ultimate aim.In order to achieve fair and functioning industrial 
relations, we are addressing the issue directly with 
our supplier factories as well as on the industry and 
government levels. Freedom of association is a clear 
requirement in our Sustainability Commitment . 
In 2011, we made a major shift in the way we assess 
compliance with this requirement in our audit pro -
gramme. Instead of asking if a worker’s right to free -
dom of association is respected, we now measure 
if trade unions are actually in place. Factories with 
trade union representation or a collective bargain -
ing agreement are now rewarded with higher ICoC 
scores (s. 2.3). 
Where unionisation is restricted by law or where 
systems are insufficient, we work to empower work -
ers with awareness about their rights at work and 
to help our suppliers establish functioning and demo  -
cratically-elected workplace representation. The aim 
is that these will develop into mature collective bar -
gaining systems. Beyond the factory level, we work 
with governments and other partners such as unions 
to promote the required legal frameworks and 
develop the concept of solution-oriented negotiations 
amongst both employers and worker representatives.COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 
AGREEMENTS
PEACEFUL CONFLICT 
RESOLUTION
STRUCTURES FOR SOCIAL DIALOGUE 
BETWEEN EMPLOYERS AND EMPLOYEES
EMPLOYEE AND EMPLOYER AWARENESS 
OF WORKERS’ RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
EFFECTIVE LEGAL FRAMEWORKFocus: Industrial relationsCOMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS52 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious ActionsNEW 2.20 Enter global 
framework agreement with 
global union IndustriALL 
and together promote indus -
trial relations globally
TIMELINE STATUS
2015 DONE
During 2015, we signed a unique 
global framework agreement with 
the global union IndustriALL and 
the Swedish union IF Metall. We are 
joining forces to promote sustainable 
industrial relations and collective 
bargaining globally and improving 
the dialogue between employers and 
employees at H&M supplier factories. 
We all share the belief that collabo -
ration and a well-functioning social 
dialogue are necessary for lasting 
improvements for the textile workers 
in all areas of working conditions. 
That includes fair living wages as 
well as to create a stable and grow -
ing textile industry in our sourcing 
markets. Development in this direc -
tion is positive for all parties – textile 
buyers, suppliers, factory employees, 
trade unions and governments. How  -
ever, it is a complex issue. Many of the countries where we oper -
ate have little experience of positive 
dialogue with the parties in the 
labour market. That’s why, as part 
of this agreement, together we are 
helping suppliers and local trade 
unions to solve conflicts peacefully, 
and primarily on the factory level 
where they arise. To support this, 
we are setting up national monitor -
ing committees with two representa -
tives from IndustriALL and H&M 
respectively. Our initial focus will be 
on Cambodia, Bangladesh, Myanmar, 
Turkey and Indonesia.
>industriall-union.org  
>ifmetall.se
“Well-functioning industrial relations including collective  
bargaining are keys to achieving fair living wages and impro -
ved working conditions in our supply chain. We believe that 
the collaboration with IndustriALL and IF Metall will contri -
bute to our already ongoing work within this field as well  
as help to create stable sourcing markets.”  
Karl-Johan Persson, CEO of H&M
Focus: Industrial relationsCOMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS53 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Myanmar is currently going through 
a rapid political and economical 
trans   formation. The transition from  
military rule has resulted in economic 
sanctions being lifted and an influx 
of foreign investments providing new 
business opportunities. In Myanmar, 
there is a great desire and ambition 
to compete on the global market and 
to create a “Made in Myanmar” brand 
that communicates responsible and 
sustainable business to the industry 
and consumers. However, there is often 
a lack of awareness about what that 
really means, and a lack of knowledge 
and skills available to achieve lasting 
change. 
Even when the awareness, intention 
and tools are present, practical imple -
mentation can still be a challenge. One 
good example is the setting of the mini -
mum wage levels. This past summer 
was full of heated discussions around 
lunch tables and in meeting rooms, 
between employers, trade unions and 
the government. What is a reasonable 
daily wage? Should there be different 
regions with different levels? How does 
this impact social security, working 
time and all of the other related topics? the “what” and the “why” and the con -
sequences in terms of business costs 
and workers’ compensation. As well 
as actions needed to be taken, for 
ex ample, providing further clarifica -
tion on interpretation of policies and 
the law, and investing in skills develop -
ment to improve competitiveness of 
the industry.
At one of our supplier factories, starting 
at the end of September, there was 
a series of disputes between workers 
and management. The two main issues 
were communication of the new mini -
mum wage levels and what this means 
for workers in terms of compensation, 
and the set-up of a union in the factory. 
Workers wanted clarity around their 
compensation, and there were reports 
that the factory management was 
discouraging workers to register the 
union. A series of misunderstandings 
and a lack of communication built up 
until the workers finally went on strike. 
The workers and the management were 
not able to come to an agreement or 
a mutual understanding of events on 
either point. Near the end of Oct  ober, 
H&M’s production office in Myanmar CASE STUDY: The positive effects when stakeholders act together  
– example from Myanmar
Adding to the pressure was the inter -
national attention paid to Myanmar, 
and the impending deadline of the 
national elections held in November 
in 2015. The dialogue was not easy, 
but it was inclusive and transparent, 
with many opportunities for consul -
tation. The Myanmar government 
invited trade unions, employers and 
other civil society stakeholders for 
multiple consultations before deciding 
on the minimum wage. International 
brands, H&M included, weighed in 
on the process as well and submitted 
a joint statement supporting the con -
sultation process and advocated for 
an early decision on a fair level of 
minimum wage. 
When the new wage level was adopted 
and announced by the government in 
September 2015, there were, and still 
are, challenges in implementing it.  
We have seen confusion and conflict 
at H&M supplier factories about how 
to comply with the law and how to 
communicate the change to workers. 
Just like working to prevent labour 
violation, a policy or law on paper is 
not enough. Moreover, it is crucial 
that everyone involved, understands Focus: Industrial relationsCOMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS
engaged with the management of the 
factory and the involved national trade 
union federation to understand their 
concerns and bring both parties to the 
negotiating table. This process was also 
supported and witnessed by represent -
atives of IndustriALL. After extensive 
negotiations, facilitated by H&M and 
IndustriALL, both parties signed an 
agreement resulting in resolution of 
the conflict. This agreement is now 
being implemented. 
>Agreement with H&M proves instrumental  
in resolving conflicts54 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious Actions2.21 Ensure democratically-
elected workplace represen -
tation at all of our strategic 
supplier factories2.22 Expand social dialogue 
project in Bangladesh to reach 
all supplier factories
TIMELINE STATUS
2018 ON TRACKTIMELINE STATUS
2018 ON TRACK
Functioning industrial relations and 
collective bargaining are essential 
factors in achieving fair living wages 
and good working conditions. Workers 
must be free to form or join a trade 
union and be able to bargain collec -
tively in areas such as wages. While 
we are realistic about the fact that 
there is a long way to go until fair 
and functioning industrial relations 
processes are in place all around the 
world, we want to set an example for 
the industry. Our goal is for all of our 
strategic supplier factories to have 
democratically-elected and functio -
nal workplace representation in place 
by 2018 at the latest. 
Given widely varying pre-conditions 
from market to market, we are apply -
ing locally-adapted approaches to 
achieve this. This means that where 
functional union and collective In 2011, we launched a social dia -
logue project in Bangladesh. The aim 
is to help supplier factories in esta -
blishing democratically-elected 
workplace committees and to improve 
the dia   logue between management 
and fac  tory employees. Since then, 
we have collaborated with external 
experts to train the management and 
workers which finally led to the free 
election of workplace committees 
that are in an active dialogue with 
the management. 
More than 40% of the factories pro -
ducing for H&M in Bangladesh are 
until now covered by the project. 
The trainings take place at our trai -
ning centre in Dhaka and are all  
about improving the dialogue and 
relationship between workers 
and management. Both workers and 
management learn about workplace 
rights and responsibilities, as well bargaining systems exist, we are 
continuing to help strengthen them 
(for example in Cambodia). Where 
this is not the case, we will work with 
our strategic suppliers to develop 
factory-based worker representation 
that is democratically-elected. As part 
of this, we have set up dedicated local as bring up and solve problems 
through standardised procedure. 
About 77 factories have performed 
worker representatives election, 
where 973 elected workers repre -
sent more than 150,000 workers in 
Worker Participatory Committees. 
Our goal is to reach 100% of the sup -
plier factories by 2018 at the latest.
projects (s. 2.23, 2.24, 2.24 and 2.25). 
By developing a new supplier assess -
ment method (s. 2.4), we are currently 
also strengthening our data collection 
so that we can track performance 
against these goals also in regard 
to democratically-elected workplace 
representation. Focus: Industrial relationsCOMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS55 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious Actions2.23 Support an increased 
number of collective bargain -
ing agreements and improve 
the industrial relation process 
in Cambodia together with the 
ILO/IF Metall and Sida
TIMELINE STATUS
2016 ON TRACK
Unlike many other countries in the 
region, Cambodia has a history of 
trade union representation. The vast 
majority of our supplier factories in 
the country have trade unions in place. 
However, negotiations in the sector 
are often confrontational, resulting 
in major conflicts. Currently, 14%* 
(2014: 18%) of our supplier factories 
in Cambodia have collective bar -
gaining agreements in place.
Together with the ILO, the Swedish 
trade union IF Metall and the Swed  - 
ish International Development Coop  - 
eration Agency (Sida), we started a 
unique project in 2014 that will run 
through 2016. The aim of the project is to increase the number of collective 
bargaining agreements, create best 
practice examples for fair and solution 
oriented negotiations and ultimately 
contribute to greater stability in the 
market. To achieve this, we are work -
ing jointly to improve negotiations 
and conflict resolution skills amongst 
both employers and unions and work -
ing with government institutions to 
help them establish frameworks that 
support this. 
During 2015, six new Cambodian 
supplier factories participated in a 
total of 36 training sessions covering “Cooperation between management 
and unions has improved and most 
of the time we can work together.”  
Chim Kosal (Deputy union leader, Coalition of Cambodia 
Apparel Worker Democratic Union, C.CAWDU)areas such as social dialogue and 
collective bargaining, workplace 
cooperation, gender equality, labour 
law and dispute resolution, as well 
as effective communication and 
negotiation skills. A total of 922 
union representatives and staff 
members participated. They repre -
sent approximately 17,000 workers.
>ilo.org  
>ifmetall.se  
>sida.se
Focus: Industrial relationsCOMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS
*Data based on audits according to Full 
Audit Program (FAP). Decrease from last 
year due to changes in supplier base.“There are fewer conflicts between 
the management and workers 
because the knowledge and under -
standing of labour law, freedom  
of association and rights to organise 
has increased.”  
Jian Li Ling (Head of J&V International Cambodia)56 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious Actions2.24 Engage all strategic 
suppliers in China in social 
dialogue projectNEW 2.25 Engage all strate -
gic suppliers in India in social 
dialogue project2.26 Provide workers and 
middle managers in supplier 
factories in India and Bang -
ladesh with training about 
their rightsTIMELINE STATUS
2018 ON TRACKTIMELINE STATUS
2018 ON TRACK
TIMELINE STATUS
YEAR-TO-YEAR DONE In China, freedom of association is 
restricted by law. At the same time, 
the Chinese garment sector increas -
ingly faces challenges such as labour 
shortages and turnover issues as well 
as labour conflicts. Recent develop -
ment in Chinese legislation reflects 
a strong need for better employee 
relations and provides great oppor -
tunities for the development of 
demo  cratically-elected worker com -
mittees. That’s why, building on our 
experiences in Bangladesh (s. 2.22), 
we launched a social dialogue pro -
ject to support our Fair Living Wage 
strategy in China in 2014 as well.
The aim is to promote awareness of 
workers’ rights and responsibilities, 
two-way communication between 
management and workers, peaceful 
conflict resolution and collective con   -
sultation in Chinese factories. The  
management, HR staff, sustainability  The social dialogue project in India 
was launched in July 2015 with the 
objective of developing democrati -
cally-elected functional worker com -
mittees that enable workers to nego -
tiate for rights and benefits in the 
workplace. The project started in 
collaboration with external experts 
to train management and workers 
in industrial relations.
As a first step, a film-based training 
module was developed for factory 
employees, explaining the importance 
of workplace committees, election 
procedures and structures. Currently 
6,800 factory employees from nine 
production units have undergone 
training. Our goal is to have demo -
cratically-elected functional commit -
tees for all of our strategic supplier 
production units in India by 2018.In 2008, we teamed up with suppli -
ers and local NGOs in Bangladesh 
to develop a series of short films 
and training packages in order to 
increase awareness of workers’ rights. 
In 2013, we expanded this pro  gram -
 me to India. During 2015, 234 fac -
tories out of 287 (82%) were trained 
in Bangladesh. In India, the number 
of factories was 73 out of 146 (50%). staff, supervisors and worker repre -
sentatives will take part in a series 
of training courses and assessments 
that will give them the skills and 
knowledge needed to have a construc -
tive dialogue about issues that are 
important to workers. 
We started in autumn 2014 with two 
strategic suppliers and since 2015, 
seven suppliers with a total of 8,200 
workers are participating. The project 
trainers have initially been trained 
by the Swedish trade union IF Metall 
and we can already see some prom -
ising results. Six of these factories 
have performed worker representative 
elections. They have looked into their 
existing or new grievance policies, 
as well as how to collect, classify and 
respond to issues. Most importantly, 
the dialogue between management 
and employees has started in all 
factories in the project. The topics 
begin with roles and responsibilities, 
the aim is to also include wage-related 
topics in the future. We plan to scale 
up the project rapidly to include all 
of our strategic suppliers in China 
by 2018.82%
(234 factories)
50%
(73 factories)NO. OF FACTORIES EDUCATING ABOUT 
WORKERS’ RIGHTS
287
factories
146
factories
Bangladesh  India Focus: Industrial relationsCOMMITMENT TWO – CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS57 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015
Being ethical is about doing  
the right thing. Respecting 
laws and regulations wherever 
we operate, paying taxes  accordingly 
and taking a clear stance against cor -
ruption. Beyond that, it also means  
respecting human rights and embracing  
diversity and inclusion. We celebrate 
differences both outside and within 
our own walls. We interact with mil -
lions of people across various countries  
and cultures. Whether you are a cus -
tomer, colleague, business partner or  
any other stakeholder, we believe that 
mutual respect, integrity, transparency  
and honesty are essential to our busi -
ness. Our commitment to be ethical 
throughout our operations is firmly 
rooted in our corporate values. — COMMITMENT THREE —
Be  
ethical58 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious Actions
We are one of the first  
companies in the world to report  
our work on human rights according 
to the UN Guiding Principles 
Reporting Framework .Key performance 2015
There are 
no rules in 
fashion but 
one – recycle 
your clothes .The film features 69 
individuals of 
different , cultural 
backgrounds and life -
styles in locations all 
over the world . That was the core 
message in our 
diverse  and 
inclusive  2015 
campaign video 
“Close the 
Loop .”
We celebrate differ -
ences and diversity 
– both outside and 
within our own walls. We work with some 
of the world’s 
best photographers, 
models and style icons, 
aiming to inspire 
a wide and 
diverse target 
group .BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
GENDER SPLIT 2015
50%
women50%
menSHARE OF FEMALES AMONGST ALL * 
COLLEAGUES VS. MANAGEMENT POSITIONS
72%76%All 
colleagues Management
positionsCOMMITMENT THREE – BE ETHICAL
Performance overview
*Average number of employees.59 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Performance overviewPROGRESS OVERVIEWTIMELINE STATUS
MORE TO DO ON TRACK DONE
FOCUS – ANTI-CORRUPTION
3.1 DETECT VIOLATIONS OF OUR CODE OF ETHICS YEAR-TO-YEAR
3.2 ENSURE THAT ALL OF OUR COLLEAGUES CONCERNED HAVE SIGNED OUR CODE OF ETHICS AND RECEIVED DEDICATED TRAINING YEAR-TO-YEAR
3.3 ENSURE THAT ALL OF OUR BUSINESS PARTNERS HAVE SIGNED AND ARE AWARE OF OUR CODE OF ETHICS YEAR-TO-YEAR
FOCUS – EMPLOYER OF CHOICE
3.4 INCREASE EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION IN EACH MARKET YEAR-TO-YEAR
3.5 SET UP A GLOBAL GRIEVANCE MECHANISM 2015
3.6 REACH ALL OF OUR COLLEAGUES WITH OUR LEARNING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM “GROW” 2016
3.7 ENSURE GOOD WORKPLACE RELATIONS AND DIALOGUE WITH OUR COLLEAGUES AND THEIR REPRESENTATIVES YEAR-TO-YEAR
3.8 DEVELOPED A GLOBAL POLICY ON HIV/AIDS IN COLLABORATION WITH ILOAIDS AND SWHAP 2015
3.9 INCREASE LEVEL OF COMPLIANCE WITH ALL SAFETY STANDARDS TO 90% IN ALL STORES GLOBALLY 2015
FOCUS – HUMAN RIGHTS MANAGEMENT
3.10 ASSESS HUMAN RIGHTS RISKS AND IMPACTS BEFORE ENTERING ANY NEW MARKET (PRODUCTION AND SALES) YEAR-TO-YEAR
3.11 ROLL OUT IN-DEPTH HUMAN RIGHTS TRAINING FOR KEY FUNCTIONS 2015
3.12 PROMOTE INCREASED AWARENESS AND RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS AND EQUALITY BY PARTNERING WITH CIVIL RIGHTS DEFENDERS 2016
3.13 ENSURE COMPLIANCE WITH OUR PRIVACY POLICY YEAR-TO-YEAR
FOCUS – DIVERSITY AND EQUALITY
3.14 ENSURE COMPLIANCE WITH OUR ANTI-DISCRIMINATION, EQUALITY AND HARASSMENT POLICIES YEAR-TO-YEAR
3.15 UPDATE OUR DIVERSITY POLICY AND ENSURE COMPLIANCE 2015
FOCUS – RESPONSIBLE MARKETING
3.16 ENSURE COMPLIANCE WITH OUR ADVERTISING POLICY YEAR-TO-YEARCOMMITMENT THREE – BE ETHICAL60 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our missionOur strategy
Corruption is a challenge in many 
of the markets where we operate. 
We apply a zero tolerance policy and 
take a proactive approach in prevent -
ing corruption. Furthermore, mutual 
trust and transparency are essential 
to the way we want to do business 
and are expected in all of our rela -
tionships, including those with our 
colleagues and business partners. 
With our Code of Ethics as our back -
bone, building awareness, providing 
education and maintaining a no-gift 
policy and zero tolerance policy are 
effective tools in preventing corruption. We make a point of acting with inte  grity 
at all times. In early 2013, we under -
lined this commitment by becoming 
a corporate member of Transparency 
International Sweden.
We have a strong anti-corruption pro   -
gramme in place. Our focus is on  
pre venting corruption through a set 
of different tools. Our Code of Ethics 
builds the foundation and outlines clear 
requirements. It is based on our cor -
porate business values and often goes 
beyond some of the strictest regulations 
and legislation. It ranges from our 
commitment to legal compliance in 
the countries in which we operate to 
not accepting or facilitating any form 
of corruption and a clear no-gift policy.
We conduct regular corruption risk 
as sessments. The Code of Ethics 
applies to all of our business partners* 
and colleagues working in our offices 
around the world** as well as our store 
management. We have made it man -
datory for all business partners and 
concerned colleagues to sign our Code 
and we provide dedicated training. 
We have internal audit systems and 
a whistleblowing procedure in place whereby potential breaches can be 
reported confidentially, anonymously 
and without any risk of reprisal. We 
follow up on reported incidents thor -
oughly. In all of our business relations,  
our focus is on achieving the greatest 
possible transparency, helping us to 
further prevent corruption from occur -
ring and to detect any non-compliance.
>hm.com/policies
*Including product suppliers as well as any 
other business partners.
**Including our Board of Directors, managers 
at all levels, colleagues in all different positions 
as well as in-house consultants and temporary 
employees, country offices, regional offices, 
production offices and logistics offices. Focus: Anti-corruptionCOMMITMENT THREE – BE ETHICAL
61 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious ActionsRather than aiming at zero cases on 
paper, our goal is to actually find the 
cases where our Code of Ethics has 
been violated. In 2015, we investigated 
33 incidents of potential non-compli -
ance (2014: 30, 2013: 36). These inves -
tigations led to actions in 25 cases* 
(2014: 18, 2013: 18); of which 17 termi -
nations and eight warnings in  cluding 
both colleagues and business partners. 
Investigations were conducted based 
on direct reports from our business 
partners and employees who made use 
of our open-door policy, complaint 
procedure and whistleblowing instru -
ments (p. 60). Most of the cases con -
cerned corruption, requests for money 
and personal favours as well as conflict 
of interest and theft. There has been 
no public legal case regarding corru -
ption brought against the company and  
/or any of our employees during 2015. 
>hm.com/anticorruption3.1 Detect violations of our 
Code of Ethics
TIMELINE STATUS
YEAR-TO-YEAR DONE
All colleagues working in our offices 
around the world,* as well as store 
management, are required to sign our 
Code of Ethics , receive relevant trai -
ning and comply with it. To main  tain 
this systematically, we have made the 
signing of our Code of Ethics a routine 
element when entering new employ -
ment contracts globally. 
Signing the Code of Ethics is no 
guar  antee that individuals are fully 
aware of its content and meaning, or 
more importantly, that they feel con -
fident complying with it. Education 
and training are therefore most cer -
tainly needed. We have made this a 
mandatory element of our training 
for all concerned colleagues and the 3.2 Ensure that all of our 
colleagues concerned have 
signed our Code of Ethics and 
received dedicated training
TIMELINE STATUS
YEAR-TO-YEAR ON TRACKeducation rates for markets identified 
as high risk have continued to increase 
to 85% in 2015 (2014: 83%, 2013: 60%) 
and to 74% across all markets, despite 
the speed of our continued growth.
We have intensified our training pro -
grammes for managers. They are role 
models for their teams, colleagues and 
business partners and ultimately 
responsible for implementing our 
values and routines. We equip them 
with the necessary tools to take this 
responsibility through an additional 
tailor-made corruption risk assess -
ment workshop. We started with 
priority sourcing in markets such as 
China and Bangladesh as well as our 
head office functions in 2014 and con -
tinued with sales markets in 2015.
 
In 2015, we also developed a new 
training programme. Since February 
*Please find an independent assurance state -
ment related to GRI G4 SO5 here (p. 123).At H&M  we have a clear 
no-gift policy .
2016, all colleagues signing our Code 
of Ethics should undergo this manda -
tory e-learning course within the first 
month of their employment. However, 
the training is also mandatory for 
those colleagues that for whatever 
reason have not participated in a Code 
of Ethics workshop yet or did so a long 
time ago. The purpose is to provide 
deeper knowledge about the Code, 
how to relate to it in daily work and 
as a support so colleagues know how 
to act when representing H&M in a 
business context. In addition, in April 
2016, a new dilemma workshop was 
conducted discussing the Code of 
Ethics’ what, why and how it will be 
implemented throu  ghout the H&M 
Group. It targets our colleagues who 
are part of the purchasing process, 
are doing business on behalf of H&M, 
or in any form have influence on 
business decisions. 
*Including Board of Directors, managers at 
all levels, colleagues in different positions as 
well as in-house consultants and temporary 
employees, country offices, regional offices, 
production offices and logistics offices. 100% of our commercial goods supp -
liers have signed our Code of Ethics 
and received dedicated training.Focus: Anti-corruptionCOMMITMENT THREE – BE ETHICAL
We have had our Code of Ethics  in 
place since 2003 and all of our busi -
ness partners are required to sign 
it. In 2012, we updated our Code to 
clearly state that any kind of bribery 
including facilitation payments will 
always be addressed and may result 
in the termination of our business 
relationship. To date, 100% of our 
commercial goods suppliers, our 
biggest group of business partners, 
have signed our Code and received 
dedicated training. By not accepting 
any kind of corruption or bribery, 
we want to contribute to positive 
value building in all of our markets. 
In par  ticular, we are focusing on high-  
risk countries such as Cambodia, 
Bangladesh and Russia. High-risk 
countries are identified through our 
assessments and, for example, Trans -
parency International’s Global Cor -
ruption Perception Index.3.3 Ensure that all of our busi -
ness partners have signed and 
are aware of our Code of Ethics
TIMELINE STATUS
YEAR-TO-YEAR DONE62 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our missionOur strategy
Working at H&M means working in an inspiring, 
fast-paced, exciting and ever-changing environ  ment 
with numerous career oppor  tunities. We want to be 
the employer of choice, both for our current 148,000 
colleagues and for future talents as we continue 
to grow rapidly. Our expansion target is to increase 
the number of stores by 10–15% per year. This involves 
attracting thousands of new future colleagues over 
the coming years. And we need to retain and develop 
the talents we already have.
Our company is built on solid foundations. Our busi -
ness concept “Fashion and quality at the best price in 
a sustainable way” is as clear as our values, which 
are based on fundamental respect for each individual 
and include a firm belief in our people. Other values 
that are lived throughout our organisation are team  -
work, simplicity, entrepreneurial spirit, cost con -
s ciousness, straightforwardness and openness, as 
well as striving for constant improvements. 
Being a good employer is particularly important 
in countries where laws and regulations fall short 
of our own standards and requirements. Wherever 
we operate, we need to ensure that our corporate 
values pervade our organisation. When we do busi -
ness “the H&M way” we do so ethically, honestly and 
responsibly. We continually encourage our suppliers 
and other business partners to do the same. We recruit from within the company 
wherever possible and provide training 
and regular performance reviews for 
all of our colleagues. Wherever we oper -
ate, we follow the same strong cor -
porate values and ethical standards. 
We believe in people and encourage 
new ideas and initiatives. We keep 
hierarchies low, provide a wide range 
of benefits adjusted to local needs 
and contexts and promote teamwork. 
Through the H&M Incentive Program 
(HIP), all of our colleagues benefit from 
the company’s success on equal terms, 
regardless of their position, after stay -
ing with us for at least five years. 
We promote diversity and strive to have 
good relations with all of our colleagues 
and the employee associations and 
trade unions that represent them. This 
also includes ensuring a healthy work -
ing environment and good work-life 
balance. We survey job satisfaction 
anonymously and have made this a key 
measurement for all of our business 
units.
>hm.com/career
Focus: Employer of choiceCOMMITMENT THREE – BE ETHICAL63 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious ActionsBeing an attractive employer is very 
important to us. Since 2012, we have 
surveyed our colleagues across our 
sales markets anonymously to get 
feedback on how they feel about work -
ing at H&M. Overall, satisfaction has 
been good, but it also varies from 
market to market. As each market is 
unique, we tailor solutions to explore 
and share examples of best practice. 
All markets have set individual goals 
to increase employee satisfaction. We 
have made these goals one of the key 
measurements for each market and 
integrated them in our global perfor -
mance review tool, our 4C scorecard 
(Cash, Customers, Colleagues and 
Conscious). On top of that, we have 
included up to three key performance 
indicators for each of these categories 
which are reviewed annually by our 
CEO with each market.
We want to remain being an equal 
opportunities employer and the Straightforwardness is one of our 
corporate values. We have an open- 
door policy and encourage a frank 
and respectful dialogue. We genuinely 
want to know how things are going. 
For many years, we have had a global 
complaint policy in place that provides 
guidance and protection for anyone 
who, in good faith, lodges a complaint. 
So far, any complaints that have been 
registered have been followed up 
market by market.
To gain better knowledge of the extent 
and content of such complaints and 
to share best practice amongst our 
markets, we set up a global grie   vance 
mechanism in 2015. It is accessible 
for anyone working at H&M and fol -
lows a neutral solving process. The 
first data evaluation will take place 
at the end of 2016.3.4 Increase employee satis -
faction in each market3.5 Set up a global grievance 
mechanism
TIMELINE STATUS
YEAR-TO-YEAR ON TRACKTIMELINE STATUS
2015 DONEemployee satisfaction surveys help 
us analyse and identify areas for 
improvements. Going forward, we 
plan to conduct these surveys on 
an annual basis. The Great Place 
to Work Institute will help us follow 
up on our continued performance. 
Focus: Employer of choiceCOMMITMENT THREE – BE ETHICAL
We have implemented our global 
learning management system GROW 
in almost all of our markets. Today, 
80% of our colleagues are covered by 
the system and with the expected roll-
out in the US and Germany in 2016, 
nearly all of our colleagues will be 
included during the year. 
GROW allows our colleagues to man -
age their training, get access to  
additional optional e-learning and 
classroom courses and test their 
know  ledge. Sustainability training 
is one of our mandatory training 
courses for all colleagues (s. 1.10). 
Additional modules cater to role-
specific needs.
>hm.com/fairpartner3.6 Reach all of our colleagues 
with our learning manage -
ment system “GROW”
TIMELINE STATUS
2016 ON TRACK64 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious ActionsAs our Global Framework Agreement 
with UNI Global Union clearly states, 
we as a company and our colleagues 
are jointly responsible for complying 
with the International Labour 
Organisation’s (ILO) Declaration on 
Fundamental Principles and Rights 
at Work. This includes our commit -
ment to freedom of association and 
collective bargaining across all of our 
operations. Employees are also rep -
resented on the board level. Besides 
various engagements on the local 
level, our global Employee Relations 
Manager holds regular meetings 
with representatives of the European 
Works Council (EWC) that comprises 
employee representatives from some 
of our largest sales countries includ -
ing Germany, France and Sweden. 
With our continued global growth, we 
sometimes face very specific challenges 3.7 Ensure good workplace 
relations and dialogue with 
our colleagues and their 
representatives
TIMELINE STATUS
YEAR-TO-YEAR ON TRACKand in some cases less mature labour 
regulations and systems for work -
place relations. In China, for example, 
unionisation is restricted by law. 
This is gradually reducing the ratio 
of colleagues who are covered by 
collective bargaining agreements, 
mainly because we have an increas -
ing number of colleagues in markets 
where these do not sufficiently exist. 
>hm.com/fairpartner  
>uniglobalunion.orgDuring 2015, we opened our first 
stores in South Africa. This is our 
first presence in Sub-Saharan Africa 
and a step into a new market that 
presents great opportunities, for 
us as well as the community. It also 
raises new challenges. About 18% of 
the South African population between 
the ages of 15 and 49 live with HIV,* 
one of the highest rates in the world. 
For this reason, we teamed up with 
the ILOAIDS, the UN’s lead agency 
for HIV/AIDS policies and program -
mes in the world of work, and SWHAP, 
the Swedish Workplace HIV/AIDS 
Programme, to discuss how we as 
an employer can ensure the best 
possible working environment and 
support for colleagues who are HIV 
positive. 3.8 Develop a global policy 
on HIV/AIDS in collabo ration 
with ILOAIDS and SWHAP
TIMELINE STATUS
2015 DONEBesides a global policy, we developed 
a prevention programme that will be 
applied in regions with higher HIV/
AIDS prevalence. The programme 
includes preventive activities as well 
as access to treatment and care for 
employees.
>iloaids.org  
>swhap.org
*Source: cia-gov.
Focus: Employer of choiceCOMMITMENT THREE – BE ETHICAL65 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious ActionsWe want to guarantee an inspiring 
and safe environment for our col -
leagues and customers. We have clear 
safety requirements and guidelines 
in place that all stores must follow. 
We monitor compliance through 
regular store audits and routinely 
update our audit form. In 2015, we 
conducted over 4,500 audits and 
found a compliance rate of 86% (2014:  
84%) with our safety requirements. 
While this is a positive tendency, it 
means that we have not yet reached 
our target of 90% compliance and 
we will continue working towards 
this during 2016. 
One of the most common challenges 
for our stores is to provide new col -
leagues with safety training on their 
first working day. Another challenge 
is that some of our stores perform 
only one instead of the required two 
evacuation drills per year. In order 3.9 Increase level of compli -
ance with all safety standards 
to 90% in all stores globally
TIMELINE STATUS
2015 MORE TO DO to address any such non-compliance, 
after each audit we create action plans 
to tackle any non-compliance system -
atically. We provide different kinds of 
safety training ranging from manda -
tory emergency evacuation practice to 
more role-specific training and run 
an annual internal safety week to 
further strengthen awareness of the 
high importance of workplace safety. 
The theme of our Global Safety Week 
2015 was “Constant improvement,” 
which was a great opportunity to 
improve our safety awareness in our 
stores, distribution centres and offices 
around the world.
Focus: Employer of choiceCOMMITMENT THREE – BE ETHICAL66 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our strategy Our missionIDENTIFY
HUMAN RIGHTS POLICYWe believe that respecting human 
rights should be a fundamental part 
of any successful business. We have 
operations and suppliers in countries 
where human rights breaches may 
occur. The human rights impacts 
of our business can take many forms 
– from our customers’ data integrity 
to fundamental human rights along 
our value chain. As a result, we recog -
nise our responsibility to provide for 
remedy when an adverse human rights 
impact is connected to our activities. 
We want to use our influence beyond 
our formal and legal responsibilities 
to respect human rights, be a force 
for positive change in the communities 
we touch and have a positive impact 
on people’s lives.Our stand for human rights is mani -
fested in our Human rights policy , 
which is based on the UN Guiding 
Principles on Business and Human 
Rights . It defines our responsibility 
to respect human rights by remediat -
ing actual impacts on people and to 
prevent potential impacts throughout 
our value chain. 
To have a comprehensive understand -
ing of these impacts and identify how 
to most effectively address them, we 
regularly assess the human rights 
impacts and risks of our business. We 
take global as well as local perspectives 
into account. We do this, for example, 
before entering a new market (s. 3.10). 
Globally, there are many challenges 
related to respect for human rights. 
For this reason, it is important for 
us to determine which human right 
who are the most salient. That is,  
which human rights are at risk of the 
most severe negative impacts within 
our operations and our value chain. 
We also look at how likely it is for 
an impact to occur and we integrate 
input from internal and external 
stakeholders into our assessment. Focus: Human rights managementCOMMITMENT THREE – BE ETHICAL
Human rights 
managementCase 
handling
Actual 
impacts
Potential impacts
Salient issues
Define level 
of responsiblity
Define 
appropriate
remedyProvide 
for remedy
Prevent and mitigate
Address through targeted 
strategiesTrack effectiveness 
of response
Sustainability Report 
(GRI and UNGP RF references)Implementation 
through business 
processesPROCESS INTEGRATION
TRACK & REPORTIDENTIFY
ADDRESS 
OUR SUSTAINABILITY 
PROGRAMImprove
practices
Integrate
learning67 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Based on this method, and in line 
with the UNGP Reporting Framework , 
we have identified ten salient human 
rights issues for our business. These 
are: Fair Living Wage, Health and 
Safety, Forced Labour, Discrimination 
and Harassment, Child Labour, Free -
dom of Association and Collective Bar -
gaining, Social Security, Land Rights, 
Working Hours and Access to Water. 
For further information on our salient 
human rights issues, how they were 
defined, where they constitute a promi -
nent risk as well as how we address 
them, see pages 128–129.
We have specific social policies that 
guide our work on human rights, such 
as our Sustainability Commitment , our 
diversity policy (s. 3.15), our advertising 
policy (s. 3.16) and our privacy policies 
(s. 3.13). Grievance mechanisms (s. 3.5) 
and assessment systems (s 2.4) are 
in place to ensure the effectiveness of 
our policy implementation. We conduct 
regular surveys amongst our colleagues 
(s. 3.4), suppliers and their workers 
(s. 2.2) and our customers, which 
in clude their perception of H&M’s 
sustainability programs. 
In addition, we encourage respect for 
human rights through a set of other 
engagements such as public policy (see 
for example s. 2.7, 2.20, 4.6 and 5.1), 
stakeholder dialogues (pages 126–127) 
and partnerships. 
As human rights concern all parts of 
our business, tools to assess and man -
age our impacts are continuously and 
increasingly integrated across our 
organisation and are therefore a vital 
part of all of our seven commitments. 
>hm.com/policies  
>hm.com/memberships  
>ungpreporting.org  
>hm.com/stakeholderdialogueFocus: Human rights managementCOMMITMENT THREE – BE ETHICAL68 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Interview with Prof. John Ruggie, former UN Special Representative for Business and 
Human Rights, author of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights
Why is it important for businesses 
to address human rights questions?
Negative human rights impacts are, sim -
ply put, the most severe economic, social 
or environmental impacts a company 
can have on people. No business today 
can expect to be sustainable if it is not 
addressing these issues, both in its 
own operations and in its value chain. 
In your experience, what are the 
biggest human rights impacts for 
a company like H&M?
For companies like H&M, with a com -
plex supply chain including manufac -
turing, labour rights will be a necessary 
and important focus. This is particularly 
the case wherever low-skilled workers 
are involved, where legal minimum 
wages are excessively low or absent, 
where there are high proportions of 
migrant workers and workers on short-
term contracts or where the labour 
supply is outsourced. These are all situ -
ations that can make workers particu -
larly vulnerable to abuse. Where this is 
the case, the right to freedom of associa -
tion becomes particularly critical since it 
is an enabling right for so many others, 
giving workers a much needed voice. 
Companies also need to look beyond labour rights to issues such as the rights 
to access to clean water and sanitation 
and to privacy. Land-related human 
rights are an increasingly important 
issue for many other companies. It’s 
im portant to look carefully across the 
range of internationally-recognised 
human rights to be sure there are no 
blind spots or false assumptions as to 
where the most severe impacts might lie. 
What are the most common challenges 
for companies when addressing 
human rights impacts?
It is often the case that companies can -
not achieve the necessary results alone. 
To fully understand human rights 
impacts, be alert to risks and identify 
optimal responses to them, they will 
often need to engage actively with those 
people who are at risk and their repre -
sentatives, as well as talking to experts 
with deep knowledge of the issues and 
the contexts where they arise. Many 
human rights impacts are systemic, 
such as child labour or forced labour, 
or their underlying causes are systemic, 
such as building safety in Bangladesh 
or the lack of freedom of association in 
various jurisdictions. These all require 
a much more open culture within and stakeholders. The UN Guiding Prin -
ciples Reporting Framework equips 
companies to meet these expectations.
What added value does this frame -
work have compared to existing ones 
on business and human rights? 
The UNGP Reporting Framework is the 
only comprehensive framework for 
reporting on human rights in line with 
the UN Guiding Principles. It enables 
companies to supplement GRI report -
ing with more complete human rights 
information.
One of the framework’s most important 
features is that it is not about reporting 
for the sake of reporting. It is not about 
indicators or data taken out of the con -
text in which they need to be under -
stood. It offers a set of smart questions 
– questions to which companies need to 
have answers to be sure they are under -
standing and managing risks to human 
rights. In short, they help you ‘do the 
doing’ of respect for human rights. Then 
it’s a simple step to show what you are 
doing as well.
>ungpreporting.org  
>hm.com/gribetween companies that fosters dialogue and col -
laboration.
How do you see the area of business and human  
rights progress in the years to come?
Companies that embrace the need to engage, collabo -
rate and innovate for solutions to these challenges will 
see increasing rewards as regulators, investors, financi -
ers, business partners and consumers place increasing 
emphasis on companies’ human rights performance.
 
Moreover, business has a critical role to play in achiev -
ing the Sustainable Development Goals. This role 
must be founded on respect for human rights and not 
on philanthropy or social investment, much as they 
too are needed. Sustainable development depends not 
just on generous business, but first and foremost on 
responsible business. Those companies that under -
stand this will themselves be more sustainable.
Why should companies report according 
to the UNGP Reporting Framework?
The UN Guiding Principles talk about the need for 
companies to know and show that they are respecting 
human rights in practice. There are various ways to 
show – to communicate – what a company is doing 
to meet its responsibility to respect human rights. 
An essential one for many companies is their formal 
reporting. Indeed, we see a rapid growth in regula  tions 
demanding improved human rights reporting, as well 
as ever more vocal demands from investors and other Focus: Human rights managementCOMMITMENT THREE – BE ETHICAL69 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious ActionsOur human rights policy commits us 
to conducting human rights risk and 
impact assessments before entering 
new production or sales markets. 
This goes for all production markets 
that we have added since 2013 (Ethi -
opia, Kenya, Myanmar). We have 
extended these assessments to also 
include existing production markets 
defined as high risk. In addition, we 
have assessed all new sales markets* 
that have opened since 2014 and 
that are planned to be opened in 
2016. This includes conducted risk 
assessments for all new sales mar -
kets opened in 2015 (Taiwan, Peru, 
Macau, India and South Africa).
In such assessments, we carefully 
analyse, for example, the human 
rights situation in a market and 
ultimately, if our presence is likely 
to make a positive difference for the 3.10 Assess human rights risks 
and impacts before entering 
any new market (production 
and sales)
TIMELINE STATUS
YEAR-TO-YEAR DONEpeople in this community.
Risk assessments do not only help us 
to identify risks and impacts that are 
particular to the local context, but 
they also allow us to become involved 
and learn from local stakeholders 
at an early stage in the assessment 
process. They also help us find oppor -
tunities for continuous improvements 
in our work. For example, when enter -
ing the South African market, we 
quickly identified the need to address 
the issue of the high prevalence of 
HIV/AIDS. Together with partners 
such as ILOAIDS, we took this local 
learning further and formed a new 
global policy that guides us in how to 
address HIV/AIDS issues amongst our 
colleagues around the world (s. 3.8). 
*Australia is defined as a low risk market, 
and therefore a less comprehensive assess -
ment conducted.Focus: Human rights managementCOMMITMENT THREE – BE ETHICAL
In 2014, together with the independ -
ent nonprofit organisation Shift, 
we developed an in-depth training 
pro gramme on human rights and 
responsibility with its basis in the 
UN Guiding Principles on Business 
and Human Rights. In 2015, the 
training was conducted for top man -
agement in both our sales offices and 
our production offices as well as key 
roles in functions such as Sustain -
ability, HR and Legal. Through a 
practical approach, the training aims 
to provide insight into actual and 
potential human rights impacts and 
equip our colleagues with hands-on 
knowledge and tools to assist in the 
implementation of our human rights 
policy. In 2016, we will continue the 
roll-out of the training and customise 
it further to provide relevance to 
specific business functions and roles. 
>shiftproject.org3.11 Roll out in-depth human 
rights training for key func -
tions
TIMELINE STATUS
2015 ON TRACK
In 2014 we entered into a partnership 
with Civil Rights Defenders. We are 
contributing with SEK 4 million over 
a period of three years to support 
their work for human rights globally. 
One example of projects supported 
in 2015 is the Civil Rights Defenders’ 
Natalia Project, which aims to protect 
human rights defenders at risk. 
>civilrightsdefenders.org3.12 Promote increased 
awareness and respect for 
human rights and equality 
by partnering with Civil 
Rights Defenders
TIMELINE STATUS
2016 ON TRACKWe have privacy policies in place 
committing us to ensuring that the 
privacy of all data concerning our 
customers, employees and job appli -
cants. All customer data used in 
connection with our online shops 
is held centrally and subject to strict 
Swedish data-privacy laws. Any com -
plaints are handled by the respon -
sible departments, for example, our 
customer service centres. Where 
needed, we have a head office data 
privacy team that helps resolve issues. 
As data privacy cannot be taken 
seriously enough, we continuously 
work to improve our systems and 
processes.3.13 Ensure compliance 
with our privacy policy
TIMELINE STATUS
YEAR-TO-YEAR ON TRACKTop management  has received 
in-depth training  on human rights  
and responsibility. We will continue  
the roll-out  in the organisation in 2016 .70 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our missionOur strategy
We see diversity and inclusiveness 
as major assets to the company. 
The majority of our customers and 
colleagues are women. This should 
be and is well reflected in our man -
agement. We need to ensure that we 
live our values in our around 3,900 
stores as well as in our offices and 
warehouses in all of our markets. 
We promote everyone regardless of 
gender, age, ethnicity, sexual orienta -
tion, religious beliefs, disability and 
more wherever we operate and ensure 
equality at all times.Diversity and equality are essential 
parts of our company culture, and 
we celebrate differences both outside 
and within our own walls. To make 
sure they pervade the organisation, we 
have integrated them into our shared 
values. In addition, we have a global 
diversity policy (s. 3.15) in place, as 
well as an anti-discrimination and 
equality and harassment policy (s. 3.14). 
We check how well our stores, offices 
and warehouses comply with these 
policies through regular assessments 
and we have clearly communicated 
local and global grievance procedures 
in place. 
Our aim is to achieve full compliance 
with these policies. Outside of our own 
walls, we want to take responsibility 
for the messages in our advertising, 
and always strive to promote diverse 
looks and equality. Focus: Diversity and equalityCOMMITMENT THREE – BE ETHICAL
71 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious ActionsDiversity is a natural part of our cul -
ture, just as openness and tolerance. 
About 76% of our colleagues are 
fe male and it’s integral to our opera -
tions that leadership reflects that. 
Some 72% of our managers and 50% 
of our board members are women. 
However, to ensure that we live up 
to these ambitions especially when 
entering new markets, we have had 
a global diversity policy in place for 
many years. Through our internal 
audits, we have found that the vast 
majority of our stores, offices and 
warehouses have implemented it. 
To make the policy even stronger, 
we are updating it and will roll it out 
during 2016. We also plan to further 
strengthen our tools to follow up 
on the implementation through the 
new global grievance mechanism 
(s. 3.5), a remedy process in case 
of any breach of our social policy 
standards (s. 3.5). 3.15 Update our diversity 
policy and ensure compliance
TIMELINE STATUS
2015 MORE TO DO 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
GENDER SPLIT 2015
Focus: Diversity and equalityCOMMITMENT THREE – BE ETHICAL
*Franchise operations not included.All of our stores, offices and ware -
houses* report on compliance with 
our policies and routines annually. 
This includes our anti-discrimination 
and equality policy, as well as our 
harassment policy. Our goal is to 
maintain a high level while improving 
our audit routines to detect any non-
compliance. The global grievance 
mechanism (s. 3.5) is one valuable 
tool in this important work, but we 
are also preparing to set up a firm 
audit process that we expect to have 
in place in 2017.3.14 Ensure compliance with 
our anti-discrimination, equal -
ity and harassment policies
TIMELINE STATUS
YEAR-TO-YEAR DONESHARE OF FEMALES AMONGST ALL * 
COLLEAGUES VS. MANAGEMENT POSITIONS
72%76%All 
colleagues Management
positions
*Average number of employees.
50%
women50%
men72 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Case study: Promoting female leadership at DBL Group, Bangladesh
DBL Group is one of our most impor -
tant suppliers and also one of the big -
gest garment producers in Bangladesh. 
They show strong sustainability per -
formance and are one of few suppliers 
publishing their own sustainability 
report . However, their share of female 
workers has been below the country 
average of around 80% and all of the 
164 sewing line supervisors have been 
men. While working to recruit more 
women in general, they also initiated 
a training programme to help female 
workers progress into leadership posi -
tions. 
Over a period of two months, they pro -
vided 24 training lessons on topics such  
as leadership, counselling and other 
skills to female factory workers. After 
this training programme, now 26 sew -
ing line supervisor positions are filled 
by women. One of them is Khadiza 
Begum, who conducted the training 
in 2015. She used to work as Junior 
Sewing Operator before, one of the 
most junior positions in a factory with 
a monthly income of some BDT 8,100 
(USD 100/EUR 93). With this promo -
tion, she now earns almost 50% more 
and has responsibility for 30 people on her team. “As a female supervisor 
I am able to address issues of female 
workers within the sewing lines that 
previously were not addressed by males 
supervisors. Female issues are best 
understood by a female,” she says.
DBL is continuing the training pro -
gramme to create more leadership 
opportunities for women and further 
improve gender equality: “Our vision 
is to be the most attractive employer 
for the female workers in the textile 
industry of Bangladesh,” says Moham -
med Zahidullah, Head of Sustainability 
at DBL.
>dbl-group.comFocus: Diversity and equalityCOMMITMENT THREE – BE ETHICAL
73 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our strategy Our missionOur strategy
Our advertising campaigns are one 
of the many ways we communicate 
our business idea. They have a broad 
impact in our 61 markets. We work 
with some of the world’s best photo -
graphers, models and style icons, 
aiming to inspire a wide and diverse 
target group. In doing so, balancing 
individual and cultural perceptions 
and customer demands requires sen -
sitivity and tact. We need to ensure 
a diverse and healthy look while pro -
ducing high-fashion images and mes -
sages that support current trends and 
our customer offering in an inspiring 
way. Also, we need to ensure that any 
data we gather for marketing or any 
other purposes is treated with the 
highest possible integrity and privacy.All of our campaigns are created cen  -
trally at our in-house marketing 
depart  ment at the head office in Stock -
holm. For many years, we have had an 
advertising policy in place that entails 
taking responsibility for the impact 
of our advertising around the world 
and choosing models and images that 
convey a positive message. This is very 
important to us, and we are aware that 
we, as a major market player, have 
a responsibility. We want all of our 
marketing to show our fashion in an 
inspiring way, and include a wide range 
of models. Consequently, we collaborate 
closely with the modelling agencies we 
work with. During the past year we met 
all the big agencies to clarify our guide -
lines and advertising policy – meetings 
we believe were well received.
Our advertising policy, our campaigns, 
and the way we work are things we 
constantly discuss internally and with 
the creatives we work with. Last year, 
we developed guidelines clarifying how 
we work with the finishing of images 
and how we continuously manage 
and review our images. However, 
there are no objective answers to what 
is a healthy look. This needs to be an ongoing discussion in our daily work, and we also 
welcome a discussion within our whole industry. 
We regularly conduct customer surveys to measure 
the feedback from our campaigns and are happy 
to see that they are generally well appreciated. And we always aim for constant 
im provement and strive to consider 
any feedback that we receive right from 
the start of any campaign we create.
>hm.com/responsiblemarketing
Focus: Responsible marketingCOMMITMENT THREE – BE ETHICAL74 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious ActionsOur advertising has a broad impact 
on many people in our 61 sales mar -
kets. In all marketing we do, our 
advertising policy commits us to fea -
turing models with different looks, 
styles and cultural backgrounds. 
This is done throughout all of our 
marketing channels and through 
digital media. 
Of course, we want our advertising 
to inspire as many people as possible 
and we include a wide and diverse 
target group. The challenge we face 
is to balance individual and cultural 
perceptions, customer demands, 
div ersity of models, looks and atti -
tudes and at the same time produce 
high-fashion images and messages 
that support current trends and our 
customer offering in an inspiring way 
– without conveying any specific ideal 
or encouraging a certain choice of 
life style. We try to take all of these 
aspects into consideration right from 3.16 Ensure compliance with 
our advertising policy
TIMELINE STATUS
YEAR-TO-YEAR ON TRACKthe start when we plan our campaigns 
and constantly improve our internal 
routines and systems to ensure this. 
For example, we follow multi-tier 
check systems for each image and pro -
duce an even larger variety of images 
at each shoot. Accordingly, during 
2015 we received a lot of positive 
feed  back on our campaigns, particu -
larly on the video  that promotes the 
reuse and recycling of clothes. 
>hm.com/responsiblemarketingFocus: Responsible marketingCOMMITMENT THREE – BE ETHICAL
75 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Scientists are convinced that if  
global temperatures will increase  
by more than 2°C by 2050, com -
pared to pre-industrial levels, the most  
serious consequences of climate change  
will be irreversible.* This is a threat to 
all of us and there is just no other way 
than to act now. 
One important achievement of the 2015 
Paris Climate Conference, COP21, was 
the establishment of a global focus to 
drive change to ensure a sustainable 
climate that contributes to continued 
growth, better welfare for more people, 
functional ecosystems and a safe envi -
ronment. This affects us all in a positive 
way. H&M supported the COP21 process 
prior to the meetings as well as par -
ticipated in the meetings in Paris in 
December 2015.
At H&M we have worked to reduce our 
climate impact for a long time and we 
are continually increasing our focus. 
We will keep supporting innovation in 
technology enabling more environmen -
tally friendly materials and processes. 
We will also continue to work for 100% 
renewable electricity in our own oper -
ations wherever there are credible  — COMMITMENT FOUR —
Be climate  
smart
*Source www.ipcc.ch.
**Our criteria includes the stimulation of demand 
for new renewable energy capacity through 
solu tions which are commercially viable. H&M 
purchases REC certificates in North America and 
GO certificates in Europe where available. We con -
tinuously monitor the rapidly evolving options for 
the rest of the world and are currently investigating 
newly emerging schemes such as I-REC in Asia-
Pacific and Latin America, to effectively expand our 
renewable energy commitment to relevant markets.renewable energy certificates which 
meet our evaluation criteria for quality 
and impact.** We are committed to set 
science-based targets to push our value 
chain into more sustainable operations. 
With the increased global focus on the 
climate, we are happy to see initiatives 
like the Earth Statement and Fossil Free 
Sweden, both of which we support. 
We see this momentum as an opportu -
nity for us, and everyone else – politi -
cians, industry colleagues and civil 
society – to make a change here and now. 
To gether with our partners, we are rais -
ing our voices to call on governments for 
strong climate commitments and effec -
tive legislation. It is fundamental that 
we do not let this moment pass, but in  -
stead see it as a possible step into a new 
economy for companies and nations.
>earthstatement.org  
>government.se76 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015In 2015 , we reduced our 
total emissions  further by 56%  
compared with 2014. Key performance 2015
This sweatshirt 
is made with 100% 
organic cotton .
Organic cotton 
has 46% less 
carbon impact  
than conventional 
cotton.Washing at 
30°C instead 
of 60°C will 
cut energy 
use in half  
and save you 
money, too.About 26% of the 
carbon emissions  
in its life occur when 
it’s washed and 
cared for at 
home .% OF RENEWABLES IN OUR OWN TOTAL 
ELECTRICITY USE
2014 2015 2013 2011 201215%18% 18%27%78%CHANGE IN TOTAL CO ₂e EMISSIONS TO 
PREVIOUS YEAR IN % (SCOPE 1+2) VS. 
GROWTH IN SALES (IN LOCAL CURRENCIES)
+12%+9%
+14%
-4%+11% +11%+9%
-56%
2014 2015 2013 2012NET SALES EMISSIONSPerformance overviewCOMMITMENT FOUR – BE CLIMATE SMART77 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Performance overview*In all the markets where H&M’s criteria for renewable electricity are considered met.PROGRESS OVERVIEWTIMELINE STATUS
MORE TO DO ON TRACK DONE
FOCUS – EMISSIONS FROM OUR OWN OPERATIONS
4.1 ONLY USE RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY* 2015
4.2 REDUCE OUR OPERATIONS’ TOTAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 2015
4.3 REDUCE ELECTRICITY USE IN H&M (BRAND) STORES BY 20% PER SQM, COMPARED WITH 2007 BASELINE 2020
FOCUS – EMISSIONS ALONG OUR VALUE CHAIN
4.4ENSURE THAT 100% OF TRANSPORT SERVICE PROVIDERS ARE EITHER SMARTWAY PARTNERS (NORTH AMERICA), 
WAYAHEAD REGISTERED (EUROPE AND ASIA) OR PARTICIPATING IN THE CLEAN SHIPPING PROJECTYEAR-TO-YEAR
4.5 DEVELOP A METHOD TO REPORT ON VALUE-CHAIN GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION REDUCTIONS 2015
4.6 ALIGN WITH BEST PRACTICE IN RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE ENGAGEMENT IN CLIMATE POLICY 2016COMMITMENT FOUR – BE CLIMATE SMART78 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Interview with Marco Lambertini, Global General Director, WWF International
Are you satisfied with the climate agreement  
reached in Paris?
The Paris agreement on climate change was historic 
and a truly unprecedented demonstration of global 
political will to take action on climate change. It sent 
the necessary signals to markets and investors that 
there is determination to exit a fossil fuel-based eco -
nomy. But an agreement and action are two different 
things. The test for Paris will be in 2020 when we 
review the implementation of the agreement. 
Now the pace of this transition is key. Success or 
failure depends on whether we can move at the speed 
and scale needed to contain climate change within  
the boundary of 1.5°C that science tells us we should 
absolutely not exceed. Through the abolition of fossil 
fuel subsidies and export credits that fund coal plants, 
the creation of carbon tax and the redirection of private 
and public investment towards renewable energy, we 
will massively accelerate the transition. We must build 
on the formidable momentum generated in Paris 
in 2015 and unite the public and private sectors to 
embrace and accelerate the much-needed transition 
to an ecologically-sustainable development model.
And we have already seen important actions: China’s 
ban on new coal mines and the closure of more than 
a thousand existing coal mines, increased invest -
ments in renewable energy, and new mega solar 
projects in Morocco, Rwanda, UK, China and Japan 
are all evidence that the transition is underway. Focus: Emissions from our own operationsCOMMITMENT FOUR – BE CLIMATE SMART
What do you think companies like 
H&M should do to help put this  
agreement into practice?
We know that the days when environ -
mental destruction was an acceptable 
cost of progress are over. But more than 
doing no harm, companies are embrac -
ing sustainable practices – often above 
and beyond what is required by regula -
tion – to make them more competitive 
and more attractive to employees and 
customers. Perhaps even more impor -
tantly, a climate- and ecologically-
friendly strategy is key to reducing 
risk and ensuring long-term business 
sustainability. With their ability to inno -
vate and take action at scale, companies 
like H&M have the potential to make 
profound contributions to mitigating 
climate change by becoming more 
energy efficient and transitioning 
to renewable energy. They also need to 
green their supply chain to avoid harm 
to freshwater sources, forests and bio -
diversity while supporting equality 
and social development. 
Are private businesses setting 
out to be ahead of governments 
on the climate agenda?
A number of proactive companies have taken impressive climate action over 
the past years. Such companies play 
an important role in setting positive 
examples that can dispel myths about 
the cost of switching to low-carbon, 
renewable energy sources. 
However, there is still much more to 
be done to bring companies on board, 
incentivised and supported by clear 
regulations that offer firm guidance 
and a level playing field for businesses 
around the world. 
Where do you see the biggest chal -
lenges ahead for H&M in tackling 
climate change?
Fashion is a complicated business 
involving long and varied supply chains 
of production, raw materials, textile 
manufacturing and clothing construc -
tion. The social dimensions are equally 
complex. A big challenge for H&M is 
that the majority of carbon emissions 
occurs indirectly in the value chain and 
thus outside of H&M’s direct control. 
This is clearly where efforts have to be 
directed. As the second largest player in 
its sector, H&M has strong connections 
with its supply chain and its customers. 
The transformational role of H&M is massive and could drive the whole 
sector.  
What would you like to see from 
H&M in the future?
I would like to see H&M continue and 
accelerate its commitment to ecological 
sustainability and social equity. WWF 
applauds H&M’s dedication to sustain -
ability, including the strong focus on 
circular fashion and the recent signing 
up for “science-based targets” on cli -
mate change. As next steps, we encour -
age H&M to set ambitious and inspiring 
targets to reduce direct and indirect 
greenhouse gas emissions, develop 
a roadmap to achieve those targets and 
lead the whole sector toward them. For 
a truly sustainable future where people 
live in harmony with nature, we need 
to change the way we produce and 
consume and find solutions that gener -
ate prosperity, equality and a healthy 
environment. Our own prosperity, 
economy and well-being, as well as the 
future of the wonderful diversity of life 
on our planet, are inextricably linked 
and depend on healthy and functioning 
natural systems. Here, we believe H&M 
can play a leading role in making sus -
tainability an enduring fashion. 79 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our strategy Our missionThe consequences of climate change 
will affect us as everyone else on our 
planet, including our suppliers, col -
leagues and customers. We want to 
do everything we can to reduce climate 
impacts from our stores, offices and 
warehouses. Even though retail is 
a relatively low-carbon business, we 
want to set a leading example. We are 
committed to using only renewable 
electricity, thereby reducing our emis -
sions to a minimum below what science  
tells us is needed for keeping global 
warming well below the expected 2°C 
increase by 2050. And not least, further 
increasing our energy efficiency helps 
us reduce costs.We aim to use only renewable energy throughout 
our operations in all of our stores, offices and ware -
houses. We want to be as energy smart as possible. 
In 2015, 78% of all of the electricity used in our 
stores, offices and warehouses came from renewable 
sources. This means that we are only using renewa -
ble electricity wherever there are credible renewable 
energy certificates which meet H&M’s evaluation 
criteria for quality and impact.*
We are part of the RE100, a collaborative, global 
initiative of influential businesses committed to 
100% renewable electricity and working to signifi -
cantly increase corporate demand for renewable 
energy. Beyond our own commitment to use 100% 
renewables, we are also motivating key players 
in our value chain as well as through responsible 
policy engagement work.
Through our use of renewable electricity, we are 
reducing our greenhouse gas emissions to a level 
well below what we need to keep global warming 
under 2°C. Still, the best electricity is the electricity 
that is never used, so we are continuing our work to 
increase energy efficiency in our stores with a target 
of reducing electricity use by 20% per store sqm by 
2020, compared with 2007. 
>there100.org2014
-4% total CO₂e emissions 
(= -16% per million SEK)
2015
-56% total CO₂e emissions
(= -60% per million SEK)
ENERGY EFFICIENCY
H&M is committed to use 
less energy per square 
meter store space. Our goal  
is to cut energy intensity with 
20% per sqm as of 2020 
compared to 2007.100% RENEWABLE ENERGY
100% renewable electricity
 in our own operations wherever 
there are credible renewable 
energy certificates which 
meet H&M’s evaluation criteria 
for quality and impact.*Focus: Emissions from our own operationsCOMMITMENT FOUR – BE CLIMATE SMART
*Our criteria includes the stimulation of demand for new renewable energy capacity through solutions 
which are commercially viable. H&M purchases REC certificates in North America and GO certificates 
in Europe where available. We continuously monitor the rapidly evolving options for the rest of the world 
and are currently investigating newly emerging schemes such as I-REC in Asia-Pacific and Latin America, 
to effectively expand our renewable energy commitment to relevant markets.GROWTH
10–15% new stores 
each year
CLIMATE 
IMPACT
total CO₂e 
emissions80 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious ActionsIn 2015, we decided that we will only 
be sourcing 100% renewable electric -
ity in our own operations wherever 
there are credible renewable energy 
certificates which meet H&M’s evalu -
ation criteria for quality and impact. 
Our criteria includes the stimulation 
of demand for new renewable energy 
capacity through solutions which are 
commercially viable. During the year, 
we have significantly increased our 
use of renewable electricity to now 
represent 78% of our total electricity 
use globally (2014: 27%, 2013: 18%). 
We purchase REC certificates in 
North America and GO certificates 
in Europe where available. We con -
tinuously monitor the rapidly 
evolving options for the rest of the 
world and are currently investigat -
ing newly emerging schemes such 4.1 Only use renewable 
electricity*
TIMELINE STATUS
2015 DONE
*In all the markets where H&M’s criteria 
for renewable electricity are considered met.78% 
of the electricity that 
we used in 2015 came from 
renewable sources .
as I-REC in Asia-Pacific and Latin 
America, to effectively expand our 
renewable energy commitment to 
relevant markets. 
Together with partners such as the 
RE100 and the WWF, we hope to help 
make renewable electricity more 
readily available. Besides this, we are 
also expanding production of renew -
able electricity through wind  mills 
and solar panels on warehouses as 
well as IT data centres. In fact, our 
IT data centres are amongst the 
world’s greenest. With efficient cool  - 
 ing and IT operations, the net con-  
 sumption per server has been reduced 
by over 75% in three years. In addi -
tion, in one of our IT parks the heat 
generated from the server cooling 
system is actually used to heat 
apartments, decreasing the demand 
for energy in the building and sup -
porting a circular energy system. 
>there100.org  
>wwf.panda.org % OF RENEWABLES IN OUR TOTAL 
ELECTRICITY USE
Please find an independent assurance statement 
related to GRI AF21 on p. 123.2014 2015 2013 2011 201215%18% 18%27%78%Focus: Emissions from our own operationsCOMMITMENT FOUR – BE CLIMATE SMART81 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious Actions2011 20122.02t
/SEKM 
turnover2.04t
/SEKM 
turnover20159,308t142,445t
201316,435t339,939tTotal
356,374t
201410,723t330,952tTotal
341,675t
Total
151,753t
2011 201217,543t272,735t
15,282t310,269tTotal
290,278tTotal
325,551tIn 2015, we reduced 
our total emissions  further 
by 56%  compared with 2014.
Originally, our goal was to reduce our 
total emissions by 2015 while growing 
the number of stores by 10–15% annu -
ally. We achieved this already in 2014. 
In 2015, we reduced our total emis -
sions further by 56% compared with 
2014, which equals a reduction of 60% 
per million SEK in sales (incl. VAT). 
The main reason for this is our 
heavily increased use of renewable 
electricity. Moving towards 100% 
renewable electricity,* climate im pacts 
from our operations will become 
mini  mal and below science-based 
recommendations for how to keep 
the average global temperature 
increase well below 2°C increase. 
We will continue to focus on keeping 
our emissions as minimal as possible 
by further increasing our use of 
renewable electricity, promoting 4.2 Reduce our operations’ 
total greenhouse gas emissions 
TIMELINE STATUS
2015 DONE
*In all the markets where H&M’s criteria 
for renewable electricity are considered 
met (s. 4.1). the availability of renewable electric -
ity in markets where H&M’s criteria 
for renewable electricity are not 
con sidered met, and by further 
im proving the electricity efficiency 
in H&M (brand) stores. Moreover, we 
will focus our efforts on promoting 
reduced climate impacts along our 
value chain. TOTAL CO ₂e EMISSIONS IN TONNES (SCOPE 
1+2) – INCL. RENEWABLES*
SCOPE 2 SCOPE 1
CARBON EMISSIONS PER MILLION SEK SALES 
INCL VAT  (CONSTANT EXCHANGE RATE) 
20132.05t
/SEKM 
turnover
20141.72t
/SEKM 
turnover
20150.69t
/SEKM 
turnover*Our GHG emissions accounting and reporting is aligned 
with the GHG Protocol. Reported CO 2e emissions are 
based on residual grid mix emission factors where 
available. Figures based on grid average emission factors 
(comparable to emission figures published in our 2012, 
2013 and 2014 reports) were for 2015: scope 1: 9,308t , 
scope 2: 497,830t . For further details and data, please 
see our CDP Climate Change Investor Response 2013. 
CO 2e emissions include carbon dioxide (CO2), methane 
(CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), hydrofluorocar  bons (HFCs), 
perfluorocarbons (PFCs) and sulphur hexafluoride (SF6). 
An independent assurance statement related to GRI G4 
EN15 and EN16 is included here (p. 123).Focus: Emissions from our own operationsCOMMITMENT FOUR – BE CLIMATE SMART82 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious Actions2011
-10%2012
-14%2013
-14%2014
-12%2015
-8%While we are excited about lighting 
our stores with electricity from 
renew  able sources, we are also keenly 
aware that the best electricity is the 
one that is never used. That’s why we 
keep working to increase the energy 
efficiency of all our stores – it helps 
us to save energy and reduce costs. 
Our target is to reduce electricity use 
per square metre in H&M (brand) 
stores by 20%, as compared with 2007 
baseline, by 2020. 4.3 Reduce electricity use 
in H&M (brand) stores by 20% 
per sqm, compared with 2007 
baseline 
TIMELINE STATUS
2020 MORE TO DOIn 2014 we saw a minor slowdown 
compared to the 14% improvement 
we achieved by 2013, a drop that 
continued in 2015. Compared with 
the 2007 baseline, our reduction 
jumped back to 8%. Our target remains 
and we strongly believe that it will 
be achieved as planned by 2020. 
We are reviewing necessary actions 
to achieve our goal, for instance the 
design of our stores, the use of light -
ing and electronics, and how we 
strategically can increase our elec -
tricity efficiency. 
ENERGY USE IN 
GIGAJOULES2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Building diesel 20,469 5,215 403 3,586 716
District heating 81,475 61,894 67,901 68,208 44,953
Electricity 3,006,870 3,195,689 3,402,762 3,804,291 4,399,990
Building natural gas, 
oil, and others211,752 184,606 252,124 155,937 161,959
TOTAL 3,320,566 3,447,404 3,723,190 4,032,022 4,607,618
ELECTRICITY USE REDUCTION PER H&M 
(BRAND) STORE SQM COMPARED WITH 2007 
Please find an independent assurance statement related to GRI G4 EN3 and EN5 on p. 123.Focus: Emissions from our own operationsCOMMITMENT FOUR – BE CLIMATE SMART83 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our strategy Our missionLooking at the lifecycle of our products, 
only about 10% of the climate impacts 
happen in our own operations. The 
remaining 90% result from transport 
(6%), raw material production (12%), 
fabric production (36%) packaging (5%), 
garment manufacturing (6%) and when 
our customers wash and care for their 
clothes (26%). So, while we are reducing 
our own emissions to a minimum, we 
want to look beyond our walls and 
inspire others to be climate smart. We 
want to use our scale to adopt a science-
based approach moving our whole value 
chain to a more climate orientated 
operation to ensure we support limit -
ing global warming to well below a 2°C 
increase compared with pre-industrial 
levels. We also work to inspire our cus -
tomers to care for their clothes in  
a conscious way and we take a stand 
for strong public policies. In 2015, we started the implementation of our new 
supplier sustainability assessment programme SIPP 
(Sustainable Impact Partnership Programme). This 
means a major shift, particularly for our climate work 
in the value chain. The new programme creates the 
base for suppliers to measure and manage their own 
climate impact and at the same time it helps us to 
shift resources to provide our suppliers with more 
effective support (s. 2.2). 
As part of this, we are gathering climate impact data 
from our first- and second-tier suppliers and integrat -
ing it into reward systems for good sustainability 
performance. We encourage our suppliers to set their 
own reduction targets and support them in reaching 
these through capacity building, for example, through 
a set of different cleaner production programmes that 
we run together with partners such as NRDC and 
Solidaridad. 
In terms of raw materials, we can make a major dif -
ference already in the design phase by choosing the 
right materials, for example, by using sustainably 
sourced cotton instead of conventional cotton (s. 1.2), 
but also by using raw materials that do not contribute 
to deforestation (s. 1.5). 
And finally, we want to inspire our customers to wash 
their clothes at lower temperatures (s. 6.6). This may 
seem like the final step in the garment’s lifecycle, but 
it could also just be the beginning. We encourage 26% 
of the carbon emissions 
in a garment’s lifecycle occur 
in the user phase .
everyone to bring unwanted garments 
to our stores for reuse and recycling. 
(s. 5.2). From a climate perspective, 
extending the life of textile fibres as 
long as possible is the best option. To 
underline our commitment to climate 
leadership, we are in the process of 
becoming a member of the WWF Cli -
mate Savers. This partnership will not 
only lift our commitment to promoting 
climate consciousness throughout our 
own operations and our value chain, 
but also show that we are taking a 
stand for a strong climate policy. 
>nrdc.org  
>solidaridadnetwork.org  
>climatesavers.org% BREAKDOWN OF CLIMATE IMPACTS  
ACROSS THE VALUE CHAIN
26%
Consumer use10%
Retail 36%
Fabric production
12%
Raw materials6%
Transport5%
Packaging6%
Garment
 production
Climate impacts are estimated H&M value chain footprints from 
Lifecycle Assesments (LCAs) conducted on behalf of H&M and are 
based on our total use of cotton, organic cotton, polyester and 
viscose in 2011/2012. Deviation from 100% due to rounding effects.Focus: Emissions along our value chainCOMMITMENT FOUR – BE CLIMATE SMART84 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious ActionsTransport is an important compo -
nent in our work to reduce CO2e 
emissions. This is why it is impor -
tant to us that all of our transport 
providers are covered by applicable 
environmental initiatives. We have 
followed up to ensure that all part -
ners live up to our standards and we 
reviewed our verification systems 
to ensure compliance in the future. 
All of our road transport providers 
must be SmartWay partners (North 
America) or registered with Way -
Ahead (Europe and Asia). Similarly, 
our sea freight partners need to 
register their environmental perfor -
mance in the Clean Shipping Index 
for evaluation.4.4 Ensure that 100% of 
transport service providers 
are either SmartWay partners 
(North America), WayAhead 
registered (Europe and Asia) 
or participating in the Clean 
Shipping Project
TIMELINE STATUS
YEAR-TO-YEAR DONEFor many years, we have been working 
to reduce climate impacts in different 
phases of the value chain. For exam  ple, 
choosing organic cotton means 46% 
less climate impact as compared to 
conventional cotton. By involving our 
suppliers in cleaner production pro -
grammes including the Better Mills 
Initiative and PaCT, we contribute to 
improved energy efficiency, which 
again has led to reductions in green -
house gas emissions. We are currently 
applying what we have learned from 
our various value chain initiatives 
to develop a reporting method. The 
method will include data from our use 
of more sustainable materials, our 
gar ment collecting initiative as well 
as both first- and second-tier sup  pliers 
to measure and report our emissions 
reductions in our value chain.
In our partnership with the WWF 
and World Resources Institute (WRI), 4.5 Develop a method to 
report on value-chain green -
house gas emission reductions
TIMELINE STATUS
2015 MORE TO DO 
ENERGY USE IN GIGAJOULES 
2014 2015 20133,714,264 GJ4,336,690 GJ4,390,606 GJCO₂e EMISSIONS IN TONNES
2014 2015 2013279,010t 324,794t328,470twe are collaborating to set a path to 
support positive climate actions. We 
are committed to science-based target 
setting across our value chain and 
during 2016 we plan to have science-
based targets for our value chain 
greenhouse gas emission reductions 
in place. These will be in line with 
climate science to support limiting the 
global warming to well below a 2°C 
increase compared with pre-industrial 
levels and the joint initiative Science 
Based Target, of which we are also 
a member. 
>textiles-solidaridad.org  
>textilepact.net  
>climatesavers.org  
>wri.org  
>sciencebasedtargets.org
Please find an independent assurance statement related 
to GRI G4 EN17, on p. 123. Reported scope 3 emissions 
include energy use, goods transport and distribution, 
and business travel. CO 2e emissions include carbon 
dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), 
hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs) and 
sulphur hexafluoride (SF6). An independent assurance 
statement related to GRI G4 EN15 and EN16 is included 
here (p. 123).COMMITMENT FOUR – BE CLIMATE SMART
Focus: Emissions along our value chain85 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious ActionsWe believe in taking a strong stance 
on the issue of climate change. We 
want to be at the forefront of the 
im  portant movement within sus -
tainability: responsible corporate 
engagement in climate policy. In 
2014, we committed to the guide -
lines developed by the CDP, the UN 
Global Compact, Ceres, the Climate 
Group, the WWF and the World 
Resources Institute in the “Guide for 
Responsible Corporate Engagement 
in Climate Policy.”  
Prior to the 2015 UN Climate Confer -
ence COP21 in Paris, we signed the 
Earth Statement  committing our -
selves to an ambitious climate agenda 
and demanding this from world lead-  
ers as well. We will follow a pro -
gramme to demonstrate best practice 
in policy engagement. We are also 
a member of Fossil Free Sweden, 
a governmental initiative taking 4.6 Align with best practice 
in responsible corporate 
engagement in climate policy
TIMELINE STATUS
2016 ON TRACKon the challenge to make Sweden 
become one of the world’s first-
fossil-free welfare countries. These 
actions include setting up internal 
audits of all activities that we take 
part in that influ  e nce climate policy, 
ensuring consistency and communi -
cating on progress.
>cdp.net  
>unglobalcompact.org  
>ceres.org  
>theclimategroup.org  
>wwf.panda.org  
>wri.org  
>earthstatement.org  
>government.se
COMMITMENT FOUR – BE CLIMATE SMART
Focus: Emissions along our value chain86 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015We strive to reduce, reuse and 
recycle wherever we can 
– packaging, hangers and 
shopping bags, to name a few examples.  
However, the biggest concern is the 
actual clothes and textiles, and what 
happens when consumers no longer 
want or need their garments. Today, 
far too much fashion goes out with the  
household waste and ends up in land -
fills. 
According to a study conducted by
WRAP, around one-third of clothing 
in the UK goes to landfill, while the U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 
estimates that textile waste occupies 
nearly 5% of all landfill space in the US. 
About 95% of this could be reused or 
recycled. This is why we need to change 
something about the fact that resources 
are extracted on one end and wasted 
on the other. This opens up great 
opportuni  ties. A new source for making 
new gar  ments with low-impact materi -
als, for example, while reducing waste 
and minimising the need for land, water, 
chemicals and more to make virgin 
raw materials.
>wrap.org.uk  
>epa.gov — COMMITMENT FIVE —
Reduce, reuse,  
recycle
87 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious Actions
COMMITMENT FIVE – REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE
Performance overview
We are one of 
the biggest users  
of recyled polyester  
in the world. Key performance 2015
You can find boxes 
like this  near the 
checkout at almost 
every H&M  store 
around the world.*We have already made 
some 1.3 million 
pieces using 
20% recycled 
cotton  from our 
garment-collecting 
initiative. This is where you 
drop off your old 
clothes  to give them 
a new life . We happily 
accept clothes in any 
condition  and 
from any brand .
From here, collected 
garments are sorted 
and reused or 
recycled . 
Nothing goes to waste. To increase this share, with -
out compromising quality, 
more technologi -
cal innovation is 
needed . We are positive 
to overcome these challenges 
and invest in prom -
ising initiatives 
and projects . TONNES OF GARMENTS COLLECTED  
IN OUR STORES
2015 2014 20133,047t7,684t 12,341t
We entered into a partnership  
with Ellen MacArthur Foundation  
to further develop towards a circular 
business model. 
*For franchise markets at least one store per market. For new non-franchise stores, 
garment collecting systems must be implemented max. six months after opening. 88 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Performance overviewPROGRESS OVERVIEWTIMELINE STATUS
MORE TO DO ON TRACK DONE
FOCUS – CLOSE THE LOOP ON TEXTILE FIBRES
5.1 NEW – ENTER STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIP WITH ELLEN MACARTHUR FOUNDATION 2015
5.2 INCREASE THE NUMBER OF COLLECTED GARMENTS YEAR-TO-YEAR
5.3 MAKE 300% MORE GARMENTS OUT OF RECYCLED FABRIC FROM COLLECTED GARMENTS 2015
5.4 USE RECYCLED POLYESTER EQUIVALENT TO AT LEAST 60 MILLION PET BOTTLES 2015
5.5 INVEST IN CLOSED-LOOP INNOVATION YEAR-TO-YEAR
FOCUS – WASTE
5.6 RECYCLE AT LEAST 95% OF WASTE HANDLED IN OUR WAREHOUSES 2015
5.7 INCREASE THE SHARE OF H&M STORES THAT RECYCLE THE MAIN TYPES OF STORE WASTE 2015COMMITMENT FIVE – REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE89 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our strategy Our missionWe want to move towards a 100% 
cir cu lar business model. This means 
nothing less than completely turning 
around how our industry has been 
operating for decades – moving away 
from a linear production model to one 
that uses once-created products as 
the resource for new desirable fashion. 
In the short term, this will help keep 
textiles from ending up in landfills. 
In the long run, this can change the 
way fashion is made and used and 
massively reduce the need for extract -
ing virgin resources from our planet. 
It will also give us direct access to 
environmentally conscious resources 
for our designs. 
To make sure that this happens, we 
need to make it easy and attractive for 
our customers to drop off any clothes 
and home textiles they no longer want 
or need at our stores. But there are 
many challenges to overcome. We do 
not have all solutions on hand today, 
but we are convinced that going cir -
cular is the future. What we can do 
at present, is set the path and lead 
the way forwards. The fashion industry is using more 
resources than the planet allows.
As demand increases, so will waste, 
pollution and carbon emissions while 
resources will become increasingly 
scarce. Moving towards a circular 
model will be key for our future success 
and growth. This is why we are cur -
rently working to update our sustain -
ability strategy. As a first part of this, 
we have set the vision of becoming 
100% circular, including only using 
recycled or other sustainably sourced 
materials and taking a circular ap  -
proach in how products are made and 
used. The strategy is being formed in 
dialogue with the strongest partners, 
thinkers and leaders, including Ellen 
MacArthur Foundation.
Our first step towards closing the loop 
took place in 2013, when we started 
to offer our customers an easy option 
to not let fashion go to waste and 
began collecting unwanted garments 
and home textiles of a critical mass. 
Together with our partner I:CO, we 
offer this service in almost all H&M 
(brand) stores globally and in an 
increasing number of stores of our 
brands & Other Stories, Weekday and CLOSING THE LOOP
Step one : Don’t let fashion go to waste.
Step two: Ensure the longest possible use,  
for example through second hand usage.
Step three: Recycle into new products.
1
DESIGN2
RAW 
MATERIALS3
FABRIC & YARN 
PRODUCTION4
GARMENT 
PRODUCTION5
TRANSPORT
6
SALES
7
USE
8
RECYCLE REUSEFocus: Close the loop on textile fibresCOMMITMENT FIVE – REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE90 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Monki. This way we can help reduce 
the number of garments that end up 
in landfills and fuel the demand for 
textile recycling capacity. 
We follow the waste hierarchy for both 
the garment collecting programme 
and our products. In the first place, 
we seek to extend the life of a garment. 
This means striving for long product 
durability and facilitating secondary 
use, for example second hand sales. In 
November 2015, we invested in Sellpy, 
a Swedish startup company offering an 
on-demand service that helps people 
to sell clothes and items that are no 
longer being used through an online 
sales service. Sellpy has introduced an 
innovative sustainable retail concept 
and new exciting ways to shop in line 
with our own business concept: fashion 
and quality at the best price in a sus -
tainable way. 
When a garment is no longer used, 
recycling is the best option – ultimately 
into products of the same or higher 
value. We are increasing the share of 
such materials in our products. While 
technology still limits this kind of 
recycling on a large scale, we are cre -
Focus: Close the loop on textile fibresCOMMITMENT FIVE – REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE
ating demand for further innovation 
and investing in exciting innovation 
ideas. Additionally, through the Global 
Change Award, the H&M Foundation 
has created one of the world’s largest 
competitions to protect the earth’s 
natural resources by investing in close 
the loop innovation, providing grants 
of one million euro annually (s. 7.9).
>ellenmacarthurfoundation.org  
>ico-spirit.com  
>sellpy.se91 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Interview with Dame Ellen MacArthur, Founder of the Ellen MacArthur Foundation
In short, what does circular 
economy mean?
The circular economy is essentially 
a different economic model that keeps 
products, components and the mate -
rials within them at their highest 
value and utility at all times. It can 
best be described by comparing our 
current linear ‘take-make-dispose’ 
economy, which essentially requires 
cheap energy and materials, with 
one that by design uses materials 
and energy in a much more efficient 
and effective way.
What are the key steps for a fashion 
company to become circular?
Look at where products, i.e. garments, 
can be valorised at a higher level. 
This can be approached in several 
ways in the fashion industry. Possibili -
ties range from the simple recovery 
of garments, and therefore the crea -
tion of a flow of textile fibres back 
into the garment production system 
and/or the wider economy, to provid -
ing fashion as a service. The latter 
approach would incentivise higher 
quality garments designed to be 
‘serviceable’ and ulti  mately disassem -
bled into their consti  tuent materials.Focus: Close the loop on textile fibres
What are the opportunities that  
come with it?
The opportunity is to recover some 
of the USD 71 billion worth of textiles 
lost from the global economy each 
year. In the case of new business 
models, for example, providing prod -
ucts as a service instead of following 
the tra  ditional sales model has been 
shown to have the potential to both 
be more profitable for producers 
and reduce costs to users. Overall, 
there is a chance to play a part in 
an eco  nomy that is regenerative and 
restorative and therefore unlocks 
more value. 
Where do you see the biggest  
challenges?
The key challenge is to move away 
from the practices conceived in 
a linear economy: fashion industry 
business models, infrastructure 
and garment design are optimised 
for clothing having virtually become 
a fast moving consumer goods. Over -
coming this linear lock-in will require 
new innovation and changes in busi -
ness practices that create reverse flows 
of materials and valorise clothing 
at a higher level.From your perspective, where do you 
see H&M on the way to circularity?
H&M has embraced circular economy 
with its CEO Karl-Johan Persson him -
self endorsing the model at H&M. This 
is a pretty good start when it comes to 
accelerating H&M’s adoption of circular 
practices at scale. H&M has also put 
in place several initiatives that demon -
strate a commercial commitment to 
a circular economy and provide a solid 
base for a wider transformation. They include the in-store clothing collect -
ing scheme and H&M’s increasing 
number of products containing up to 
20% recycled cotton. It will be inter -
esting to see the future impact of this 
momentum from a revenue and scale 
perspective.
What would you like to see from 
H&M moving forward?
I would like to see H&M build on its 
experience with circular models and 
explore additional opportunities, in 
particular by rethinking the design of 
its products, experimenting with inno -
vative business models and extending 
circular economy thinking to its wider 
operations.
The whole industry’s supply chains 
will be instrumental in the success 
of these innovations. We would be 
very interested in seeing H&M adopt 
a leader  ship role in the industry’s trans -
formation. This could take the form of 
exploring collaboration opportunities, 
new business models and innovative 
incentive structures that would encour -
age a shift in the industry away from 
a focus on volumes and throughput 
to a more systemic perspective.
COMMITMENT FIVE – REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE92 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious ActionsTo further develop our strategy and 
fuel collaboration across industries 
to make a closed loop happen, we 
entered a partnership with the Ellen 
MacArthur Foundation in 2015. 
Established in 2010 by Dame Ellen 
MacArthur, a British sailor and 
world record holder for the fastest 
solo circumnavigation of the globe, 
to accelerate the transition to the NEW 5.1 Enter strategic part -
nership with Ellen MacArthur 
Foundation
TIMELINE STATUS
2015 DONESince the start  in 2013, 
we have collected  over 22,000 tonnes  
of old garments  for reuse and recyling 
– that’s as much fabric  as in more than 
100 million t-shirts .
“Operating in a key sector of the 
global economy, H&M’s vision for 
applying circular models represents  
a significant opportunity to scale 
up the transition.”  
Dame Ellen MacArthurCOMMITMENT FIVE – REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE
Focus: Close the loop on textile fibres
circular economy, the organisation 
has emerged as a global thought 
leader for the circular economy. 
We are one of so far seven Global 
Partners jointly developing the cir -
cular agenda further and promoting 
and sharing innovation.
>ellenmacarthurfoundation.orgOur customers can drop off any 
clothes and home textiles they no 
longer want or need at almost all* 
H&M (brand) stores around the globe 
– in what is probably the world’s 
big  gest retail garment collecting sys -
tem. Since we launched our garment 
collecting initiative in 2013, we have 
gathered more than 22,000 tonnes 
of garments to give them a new life. 
In 2015 alone, we collected 12,341 
tonnes, which is equivalent to more 
than 61 million t-shirts. All items are 
taken care of. Nothing goes to waste. 
Currently most of the fibres are 
reused, for example, as second hand 
clothes, or recycled into your next 
cleaning cloths or into the first new 
yarn to make new clothes. 5.2 Increase the number 
of collected garments 
TIMELINE STATUS
YEAR-TO-YEAR DONEUsing your clothes for as long as you 
can is, of course, the best option. Once 
garments become unusable, recycling 
them into new yarn for making new 
products is what will create a closed 
loop. The recycled yarn is blended 
with virgin yarn and to date, with 
current mechanical recycling techno -
logy, one single product can contain 
up to 20% recycled post-consumer 
fibres without any loss of quality or 
longevity. To increase this share and 
enable large-scale production, we are 
creating demand and investing direc -
tly in the required technical innova -
tion (s. 5.5).
We are also raising awareness among  st 
our customers to not let fashion go 
to waste. In 2015, we launched an 
inspirational viral video  reaching 
over 10 million people globally and 
sending the message “There are no 
rules in fashion but one: recycle your 
clothes.”
In parallel, we could see in customer 
surveys that the awareness of our 
garment collecting programme 
increased significantly amongst 
H&M customers. Along with our *For franchise markets, our minimum 
requirement is to include at least one store 
per country and for newly entered mar -
kets, the system should be up and running 
six months after the first store opening at 
the latest.TONNES OF GARMENTS COLLECTED  
IN H&M STORES 
2015 2014 20133,047t7,684t 12,341t
Please find an independent assurance statement 
related to GRI G4 EN1 on p. 123.customers, we can make a change 
– and make it smooth and easy to 
never let fashion go to waste. 93 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious ActionsIt is an important step to keep textiles 
from ending up in landfills. But we 
want to do more. We want to turn 
unwanted clothes and home textiles 
into an innovative resource for new, 
fresh quality pieces. In short: we want 
to create a closed loop for fashion. 
In early 2014, we took the first big 
steps in this mission and made the 
first products with at least 20% 
re cycled material from collected 
garments. With today’s mechanical 
technology, it is mainly possible to 
recycle natural fibres such as cotton 
and wool. Cotton is an important 
fibre for H&M and since 2014, we 
have launched increasingly more 
products containing up to 20% recy -
cled cotton across our entire range. 
There are a number of challenges 
on the way to increasing these 
figures even further, for example 
import barriers for used clothes 5.3 Make 300% more garments 
out of recycled fabric from 
collected garments
TIMELINE STATUS
2015 DONEin major production markets such 
as Turkey and China. There are 
also technological challenges that 
currently do not allow for more than 
20% of recycled cotton without loss 
of quality, which is something we 
try to overcome by investing in tech -
nology (s. 5.5). 
For 2015, our target was to increase 
the number of items made with at 
least 20% recycled fabric from col -
lected garments by more than 300% 
compared with 2014. And we did 
it, resulting in 1.3 million garments 
in total. Still, this is just a first step 
to what we want to achieve: a closed 
loop for fashion.In 2015, some 1.3 million 
pieces were made with closed 
loop material . That’s over 300% 
more compared with 2014. COMMITMENT FIVE – REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE
Focus: Close the loop on textile fibres
5.4 Use recycled polyester 
equivalent to at least 60 
million PET bottles
TIMELINE STATUS
2015 DONE
We use a range of recycled materials 
in our collections, such as recycled 
cotton, wool and polyester. Using 
recycled materials in general matters 
and takes us one step further to our 
vision of becoming 100% circular 
and renewable. Recycled materials 
in particular have two major benefits 
– they reduce the need for extracting 
virgin resources and less waste ends 
up in landfills. 
Recycled polyester is one important 
material. It doesn’t need any of our 
world’s limited oil resources; instead 
it is usually made from PET bottles 
that may otherwise have ended up 
in landfills. In 2015, we exceeded 
our goal of using recycled polyester 
equivalent to at least 60 million PET 
bottles. In fact, we used recycled poly -
ester equivalent to more than 90 
million PET bottles (2014: 40 million, 
2013: 40 million). Even though this is a considerable amount, recycled 
material still has a lot more potential 
and currently represents only around 
1% of our total material use, a figure 
that we expect to increase as we move 
closer to a closed loop for textiles in 
the coming years. So drop your PET 
bottles at your nearest recycling 
depot and you may see them again 
as a beautiful dress or as superlight 
and functional sportswear.
NO. OF PET BOTTLES EQUIVALENT  
TO RECYCLED POLYESTER USE  
IN MILLION BOTTLES
90.5
39.8 39.8
2014 2015 20135.5 Invest in closed-loop 
innovation
TIMELINE STATUS
YEAR-TO-YEAR DONE
There are certainly challenges on the 
road towards a closed loop for textiles. 
For example, the fact that we currently 
cannot make products with more than 
20% recycled cotton from collected 
garments without a loss in quality 
and durability. By creating demand 
for solutions and actively working 
with innovators and scientists, how -
ever, we are positive that we can  
overcome these challenges. We are 
currently involved in a number of 
different promising initiatives and 
projects. For example, together with 
Kering, we have entered into a part -
nership with the UK-based innova -
tion company Worn Again, which 
is developing technologies for textile-
to-textile recycling.
>wornagain.info94 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our missionOur strategy
Like any other organisation, we generate 
waste such as cardboard, paper and 
plastic. This is something we want to 
avoid wherever possible in our stores, 
offices and warehouses. It helps save 
both money and natural resources. 
For waste that cannot be avoided, we 
need to make sure we reuse and recycle 
as much as possible. The advantage 
is that we also have a great opportu -
nity to help reduce waste impacts way 
beyond our operations, for example 
by using waste as a resource for new, 
high-quality products and by making 
it easier for our customers to reduce 
and recycle waste at their end.Our aim is to send as little waste to 
landfills as possible. We follow the 
Euro pean waste hierarchy. We are foc -
using on our warehouses where most 
of our operational waste is handled. 
We are currently implementing waste 
recycling systems in our stores. We are 
also using cut remnants and post-con -
sumer waste to make shopping bags 
and new clothes. Through our garment 
collecting initiative, we give our cus -
tomers convenient means to dispose 
of used clothes and give them a new life 
s. 5.2) rather than throwing them in 
the garbage.
>hm.com/waste  
>ec.europa.se/waste/framework
Focus: WasteCOMMITMENT FIVE – REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE95 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious ActionsThe majority of the waste that we 
generate is handled in our ware -
houses. In 2015, this was around 
50,000 tonnes* (2014: 46,000t,* 
2013: 35,000t) and consisted mainly 
of cardboard (65%), paper (10%) and 
plastic (7%). Our goal is to recycle 
95% of this waste. In 2015, we almost 
achieved our target by reaching 94% 
(2014: 91%, 2013: 92%). We will con -
tinue to work towards recycling 
at least 95%.While much of the waste generated 
in our stores is sent to our warehouses 
and recycled from there, we want to 
make sure that the remaining waste 
is also handled in the best possible 
way. We are focusing on our largest 
brand’s stores, H&M, and the most 
common types of waste, namely 
card   board, plastic and paper. Much 
de pends on existing recycling systems 
in the community or the building 
where we rent space, for example. 
While these can pose serious chal -
lenges locally, over the last year we 
further increased the share of stores 
that have recycling systems for these 
types of waste in place to 61%* (2014: 
58%, 2013: 47%). Our aim is to further 
increase this share and ultimately 
reach 100%.5.6 Recycle at least 95% of 
waste handled in our ware -
houses5.7 Increase the share of 
H&M stores that recycle the 
main types of store waste
TIMELINE STATUS
2015 MORE TO DOTIMELINE STATUS
2015 DONE
*In last year’s sustainability report 
32,000 tonnes was reported for 2014. 
Due to im  proved data collection methods 
we have corrected that figure to 46,000 
tonnes. *Extrapolation based on data available 
for 95% (2014: 93%) of H&M (brand) stores.94%  of the waste  
handled in our warehouses 
is being recycled .
Focus: WasteCOMMITMENT FIVE – REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE96 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our planet is facing scarcity  
issues on many fronts. Accord -
ing to the UN, the world will  
need 50% more food, 45% more energy 
and 30% more water by 2030. In the 
textile industry, water plays a particu -
larly critical role, from growing cotton 
to washing our clothes at home. So using  
resources efficiently makes long-term 
business sense and will increasingly 
provide opportunities for competitive 
advantage. To operate as a sustainable 
business, we are committed to conserv -
ing water, soil, air and species. More 
than that, we want to help ensure that 
resources are being shared in a fair way 
and that we consider the needs of both  
present and future generations.
>un.org
 — COMMITMENT SIX —
Use natural resources  
responsibly97 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious ActionsPerformance overviewCOMMITMENT SIX – USE NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLY
This pair of jeans  is a classic 
denim  piece and is sold in H&M 
stores around the world . 
Producing denim requires 
significant amounts 
of water . However, this 
denim is made with the lowest 
possible environ -
mental impact  
compared with 
traditional production 
methods. This is thanks to the 
environmentally-
friendly  denim expert 
consultancy Jeanologia  
and their methods to measure 
and reduce the 
negative effect of 
treatment processes 
on our planet.
The result is a 
greener production 
process  without any 
compromise on style . 
All of our denim orders  are now  
scored  by Jeanologia’s Environmental  
Impact Measurement tool . Key performance 2015
LITRES USED PER KG OF CLOTHING 
(MANUFACTURING SUPPLIER WATER 
EFFICIENCY)
LESS THAN 100 LITRES PER KG
100–200 LITRES PER KG
MORE THAN 200 LITRES PER KG
17% 18% 17% 18%73%71% 72%70%
9%10% 10%12%
2012 2013 2014 2015
Based on data from supplier factories with wet 
processes. % OF SUPPLIER FACTORIES IN FULL 
COMPLIANCE WITH WASTEWATER QUALITY 
REQUIREMENTS (BSR)
65%71%75%
57%
2012 2013 2014 2015
Included are all supplier factories with wet processes 
and their own wastewater treatment plants. Excluded 
are factories using shared treatment plants. 98 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Performance overviewPROGRESS OVERVIEWTIMELINE STATUS
MORE TO DO ON TRACK DONE
FOCUS – WATER STEWARDSHIP
6.1 ENSURE APPROPRIATE WASTEWATER TREATMENT FOR ALL SUPPLIER FACTORIES WITH WET PROCESSES 2015
6.2 NEW – LAUNCH A NEW METHOD TO ASSESS SUPPLIER WATER IMPACTS AND HELP TO FURTHER REDUCE THESE AT ALL SUPPLIER FACTORIES WITH WET PROCESSES 2016
6.3 REDUCE WATER USE IN TREATMENT PROCESSES OF DENIM AND OTHER WATER-INTENSE PRODUCT TYPES YEAR-TO-YEAR
6.4 EXTEND WATER IMPACT REDUCTIONS IN RAW MATERIAL AND FABRIC PRODUCTION YEAR-TO-YEAR
6.5 INSTALL WATER-EFFICIENT EQUIPMENT ACROSS OUR OWN OPERATIONS 2020
6.6 RAISE AWARENESS ON WATER ISSUES AMONGST CUSTOMERS, COLLEAGUES AND SUPPLIERS YEAR-TO-YEAR
6.7 NEW – IMPLEMENT WATER ENGAGEMENT PLANS FOR THE YANGTZE (CHINA) AND BRAHMAPUTRA (BANGLADESH) RIVER BASINS 2015
FOCUS – CHEMICAL MANAGEMENT
6.8 HELP TO LEAD OUR INDUSTRY TOWARDS ZERO DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS CHEMICALS 2020
6.9 DEVELOP A NEW METHOD TO ENSURE DATA DISCLOSURE FOR ALL STRATEGIC SUPPLIERS 2016
6.10 DEVELOP IMPROVED CHEMICAL MANAGEMENT PRACTICES FOR OUR SUPPLIERS 2017COMMITMENT SIX – USE NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLY99 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our missionWater is essential for society and access 
to to clean water is increasingly identi -
fied as one of the most important issues 
at a global level. The World Economic 
Forum identifies global water crises 
as the top threat worldwide to business 
and society. Growing cotton, dyeing 
fabrics, creating washed-out looks and 
not least washing our clothes at home 
all have an impact on water resources. 
Operating in a water-intense industry, 
we have a keen interest and responsi -
bility to not only reduce water impacts 
across our value chain, but also to help 
the communities along our value chain 
to ensure that clean water is available 
to everyone. 
We have worked for over a decade on 
water issues and built up a water strat -
egy with the aim to be a leader in 
water stewardship. We are working for 
responsible management of the water 
resources on which our supply chain 
depends and through this helping 
others get access to clean water. 
What’s most important is what we, 
together with our peers, do to ensure 
that water is used responsibly through -
out the value chain. In line with our commitment to use natural resources 
responsibly, we have teamed up with 
a number of organisations such as the 
WWF, Solidaridad and the Swedish 
Textile Water Initiative (STWI) to set 
new standards in the fashion industry.
>World Economic Forum’s “Global Risks 2015”
AVERAGE YEARLY WATER WITHDRAWAL  
PER FACTORY IN WATER STRESSED AREAS  
(H&M PRODUCTION)
2015 2014 2013130,000 m3
105,000 m3
71,000 m3Focus: Water stewardshipCOMMITMENT SIX – USE NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLY
100 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Responsible water management is vital  
for the future of communities, the en   vi-
ron ment, biodiversity and our business 
success. This has led us to team up 
with the WWF and together we have 
developed a holistic strategy for water 
stew  ardship targeting four key themes: 
improving the use of water, building 
water awareness, collective action, and 
measuring water impact and risk. This 
collaboration ran over three years and 
was the first of its kind in the fashion 
industry and worked to engage suppli -
ers, buyers, as well as decision makers. 
In March 2016, we partnered with the 
WWF again, in a five years partnership. 
The focus is still on water stewardship, 
but also including climate action and 
a strategic dialogue related to H&M 
and the textile industry’s broader sus -
tainability challenges. 
We are also taking the next step in the 
way we assess our suppliers’ sustain -
ability performance (s. 2.2) and we are 
further strengthening these measure -
ments and helping our suppliers to bet -
ter know their footprints and de  velop 
strategies to reduce them. 
Our lifecycle assessments show that the most significant water footprint 
in our value chain occurs in raw mate -
rial production (87%). It is mainly 
because cotton production is highly 
water intense and our goal is to use 
cotton solely from sustainable sources 
by 2020 at the latest (s. 1.2). This is 
also why we are working with cloth -
ing recycling in order to decrease our 
dependence on virgin materials. 
The second biggest water footprint is 
in cus   tomer use and we have worked 
with Clever  care to help customers 
make washing decisions that are more 
energy- and water-friendly. 
The third biggest water footprint is 
from washing and dyeing processes in 
fabric production and garment finish -
ing, for example to achieve the desired 
look of denims. We are working together 
with a variety of organisations and 
initiatives to address capacity building 
in factories, e.g. STWI, PaCT, NRDC, 
Solidaridad and the WWF.PIONEERING 
WATER 
STEW ARDSHIP 
FOR F ASHION
WATER STRATEGY
H&M’s water stewardship 
strategy has been developed 
in line with the WWF water 
stewardship steps.
WATER 
AWARENESS
KNOWLEDGE OF 
IMPACT
INTERNAL ACTION
STAKEHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENT
INFLUENCE 
GOVERNANCEOur strategyFocus: Water stewardshipCOMMITMENT SIX – USE NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLY
>hm.com/water  
>wwf.panda.org  
>clevercare.info  
>stwi.se  >textilepact.net  
>nrdc.org  
>solidaridadnetwork.org101 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Interview with Ma Jun, Director of the Institute for Public & Environmental 
Affairs (IPE), BeijingFocus: Water stewardship
What are the major impacts of textile production 
on water resources?
Textile production is extremely water and chemical 
intensive, so it takes a major toll on the environment 
in water-scarce regions and when pollutants are 
discharged on a massive scale.
 
How do you think fashion companies like 
H&M should address these impacts?
Fashion companies need to focus their efforts where 
environmental impacts are greatest and support 
suppliers in implementing effective solutions for 
emissions reduction.
How do you see H&M’s performance in this regard?
H&M has actively pushed for its suppliers to publicly 
address environmental compliance issues, but could 
lead the collaborative efforts to mend the loop  holes 
on centralised wastewater treatment.
What would you like to see from H&M 
in the next years?
H&M could work together with stakeholders in 
emerging countries like China to implement disrup -
tive solutions for sustainable apparel manufacturing.
>ipe.org.cn
COMMITMENT SIX – USE NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLY102 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious ActionsAll of our approximately 500 supplier 
factories (including any subcon -
tracted factories) with wet processes 
are required to treat their wastewater, 
either by having their own effluent 
treatment plant (ETP) or by using 
shared treatment plants as for exam -
ple provided by the municipality. 
Factories with their own treatment 
plants need to comply with strict 
wastewater quality standards and 
we regularly monitor these. 
We apply the Business for Social 
Responsibility (BSR) Water Group’s 
quality definitions, which in many 
locations go well beyond the legal 
requirements. In 2015, we started 
making compliance with this as mini -
mum requirement for our supplier 
factories. Currently, the compliance 
rate is 75% (2014: 71%). This means 
that before entering a partnership 6.1 Ensure appropriate 
wastewater treatment for all 
supplier factories with wet 
processes
TIMELINE STATUS
2015 MORE TO DO with H&M, the factory needs to meet 
the requirements and has to comply 
with them during the entire partner -
ship. If a factory, for some reason, does 
not meet these standards at some 
point, this could result in a termina -
tion of our business relationship. 
At the same time, we are continuing 
to increase our alignment with other 
brands in shared factories and work 
with authorities to improve legal 
requirements where needed. A specific 
example is Bangladesh. The country Factories with treatment plants  need 
to comply  with strict wastewater quality 
standards  that we regularly monitor .
SHARE OF TOTAL WATER DISCHARGE  
BY DESTINATION 2015
51% 
Brahmaputra 
(Bangladesh)% OF SUPPLIER FACTORIES IN FULL 
COMPLIANCE WITH WASTEWATER QUALITY 
REQUIREMENTS (BSR)
2012 2011 2013 2014 2015
Included are all supplier factories with wet processes 
and their own wastewater treatment plants. Excluded 
are factories using shared treatment plants. is facing significant water challenges 
since its regulatory framework re  -
quires further improvements and 
wastewater treatment is still not 
common. Still, we require that all 
supplier factories as well as subcon -
tracted factories have proper ETPs 
in place. 
>bsr.org
65%71%75%
57%
41%
3% 
Yangtze (China)TOTAL 
96,191,359 m3Focus: Water stewardshipCOMMITMENT SIX – USE NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLY103 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious ActionsProducing denim requires significant 
amounts of water. In order to reduce 
water impacts, we focus on innovative 
production methods without com -
promising our customers’ demands. 
Since 2014, such low-impact produc -
tion methods are part of our consci -
ous consumer labelling for products 
with the highest sustainability 
standards. 
To define the products with the lowest 
impacts, we use a tool developed by 6.3 Reduce water use in 
treatment processes of denim 
and other water-intense 
product types
TIMELINE STATUS
YEAR-TO-YEAR DONEJeanologia, a Spanish consultancy 
and experts on sustainable denim 
washes. Their Environmental Impact 
Measurement tool (EIM) helps to rate 
the treatment process impacts, for 
example, with regard to water use, 
energy use and chemical manage -
ment. The ratings are divided into 
three categories – green, yellow and 
red. To be labelled with our Conscious 
Label, a denim needs to meet the 
requirements of the green category. 
This guarantees that a maximum of 
35 litres of water per garment is used 
during washing. Currently, about 50% 
of our denim products fall into the 
green category.
Beyond these Conscious labelled and 
best performing products, during 
the year, we have expanded the use 
By 2015, about half of all our denim products  
had reached the highest “green” level, meaning  
that a maximum of 35 litres of water per garment  
had been used during the treatment processes.Today, all of our denim 
orders  are scored  by Jeanologia’s  
Environmental Impact 
Measurement tool.
We want to go beyond ensuring com  -
pliance with minimum requirements. 
In 2015, we therefore developed a new 
way of assessing our suppliers’ sus -
tainability performance (s. 2.2) that 
considers more than just compliance 
and instead focuses on actual impacts. 
This helps suppliers to better under -
stand and – where needed with our 
support – develop their own strategies 
to tackle these impacts. 
As part of this, we have developed a 
broad set of additional measurements 
and amongst other things, we have 
incorporated what we have learned 
through our partnership with the 
WWF. For example, we are now 
requesting that all applicable supplier 
factories gather and report data on 
their total water usage (and where it NEW 6.2 Launch a new 
method to assess supplier 
water impacts and help to 
further reduce these at all 
supplier factories with wet 
processes
TIMELINE STATUS
2016 ON TRACKhas been withdrawn from) as well as 
water recycling rates. And of course, 
we are continuing to monitor waste -
water quality as well as input sources 
for potential pollution (s. 6.1). More 
im portantly, we are encouraging sup -
pliers to set their own targets and 
strategies to reduce their impacts. 
We are sup  porting them in improving 
their related management systems 
with training and we are rewarding 
good performance with better busi -
ness. We are focusing specifically 
on suppliers in water stressed and 
polluted areas in the deltas of Brah -
maputra (Bangladesh) and Yangtze 
(China), which are the two single 
most significant water sources for 
our wet-process suppliers. 
We are currently transitioning to  w-
ards this new assessment method 
and gathering the first data. We plan 
to report the first data in the 2016 
report and are currently working 
together with several of our stake -
holders to set new impact reduction 
targets. Already this year, we could 
see that all of our roughly 500 appli -
cable supplier factories had installed 
water usage measurement tools. Focus: Water stewardshipCOMMITMENT SIX – USE NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLY
of Jeanologia’s analysis to all of our 
denim production, providing us and 
our suppliers with a helpful tool to 
assess and reduce water use. 104 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious ActionsProducing raw materials and making 
fabrics can have significant water 
impacts. That’s why we want to make 
the best possible fabric choices and 
help cotton farmers and fabric mills 
in particular to reduce their water 
impacts. And of course make water 
conscious fabric choices right from 
the start when designing our products. 
One way to do this is to choose recy -
cled materials. In 2014, we launched 
our first closed-loop denim collection 
using at least 20% recycled cotton 
from collected clothes. We estimate 
that each of these denim pieces uses 
up to 1,000 fewer litres of water com -
pared to using only conventional 
virgin cotton. 
During 2015, we also took important 
further steps by including fabric mills 
involved in making about 50% of our 
products (2014: 35%) in our supplier 
assessment systems (s. 2.9).6.4 Extend water impact 
reductions in raw material 
and fabric production
TIMELINE STATUS
YEAR-TO-YEAR DONEThis means that these mills are now 
gradually being covered by water 
impact assessments, measuring and 
reporting data for example on their 
water usage and recycling rates – and 
are encouraged to set their own tar -
gets and strategies to reduce these. 
Additionally, we have continued our 
work through a set of programmes 
that aim to help fabric producers in 
particular to improve their environ -
mental footprints such as the Partner -
ship for Cleaner Textiles (PaCT) in 
Bangladesh and the Better Mill Initia -
tive in China, together with Soli -
daridad. Together with Solidaridad 
and the Natural Resources Defense 
Council (NRDC), we aim to improve 
the production efficiency of more than 
30 printing and dyeing mills in China 
over a three-year period. So far, the 
results show that participating mills 
have increased profits due to reduc -
tions in energy, water usage and saved 
time and materials. When it comes 
to raw materials, it is mainly through 
the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) 
that we are helping cotton farmers 
grow cotton with less water impacts 
(s. 7.2). We will continue to extend these efforts and improve our tools 
for measuring impacts and reduc -
tion opportunities. 
We are also working with the Swedish 
Textile Water Initiative (STWI). Col -
lectively, the Swedish brands that 
make up this network alongside the 
Stockholm International Water Insti -
tute (SIWI) have developed guide lines 
for sustainable water use in textile 
and leather manufacturing. In 2015, 
we began participating in STWI pro -
jects in Ethiopia, Turkey and India 
with the support of the Swedish 
International Development Cooper -
ation Agency (Sida). The programme 
focuses on achieving measurable 
results at the factory level, address -
ing resource efficiency and building 
the capacity for workers and manag -
ers to continue working towards 
sustainable production. 
>textilepact.net  
>textiles-solidaridad.org  
>solidaridadnetwork.org  
>nrdc.org  
>bettercotton.org  
>stwi.se  
>siwi.se  
>sida.seTo continue the work towards sustainable 
production  we are participating in 
projects in Ethiopia, Turkey, India, 
Bangladesh and China .
Focus: Water stewardshipCOMMITMENT SIX – USE NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLY105 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious ActionsLooking at our entire value chain, 
our stores, warehouses and offices 
have a rather small water impact. 
Still, we want to act as a good example 
by reducing our water use as much 
as possible. And of course this also 
helps us reduce costs in the long 
run. So by 2020 at the latest, we aim 
to have water-efficient equipment 
such as low-flow taps in all of our 
stores, warehouses and offices. By 
2015, 37% of our facilities had water-
efficient equipment in place (2014: 
24%, 2013: 19%). Our warehouses in 
Hamburg, Ghlin, Poznań and Madrid 
as well as a number of stores in the 
UK have additional rainwater har -
vesting facilities in place. In total, 
our facilities harvested roughly 21.2 
million litres of rainwater in 2015 
(2014: 12.3 million).6.5 Install water-efficient 
equipment across our own 
operations
TIMELINE STATUS
2020 ON TRACKLITRES OF RAINWATER HARVESTED  
IN OWN OPERATIONS
2012 2013 2014 20153,005,000 
litres10,994 000 
litres12,325,000 
litres21,152,000 
litres
TOTAL WATER WITHDRAWAL FOR  
H&M’ s OWN OPERATIONS
2012 2013 2014 20152,011,000 m3
1,463,000 m31,521,779 m3 1,576,642 m3% OF STORES, OFFICES AND WAREHOUSES 
WITH WATER-EFFICIENT EQUIPMENT
2015 2014 201319%24%37%
100%2020
(goal)We aim to have water-efficient 
equipment  in all of our stores, warehouses 
and offices  by 2020  at the latest.Focus: Water stewardshipCOMMITMENT SIX – USE NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLY106 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious Actions53%
of our second-tier 
factories  have been trained 
in water issues .
We have found that general awareness 
about water issues is rather low com -
pared to, for example, climate change. 
Since water is a significant resource 
when making fashion, we want to 
emphasise the importance of water 
together with our efforts to tackle 
the world’s growing water challenges. 
Through different initiatives, we hope 
to raise awareness amongst our col -
leagues, suppliers and customers. 
Specifically, we have rolled out man   -
datory e-learning sessions for em  -
ployees that highlight water issues  
and solutions. So far, more than 
52,000 colleagues (35%) have taken 
our introductory e-learning and 
almost 13,500 have taken our more 
advanced learning programme. We 
also have specific water and technical 
training courses for our colleagues 
in our production countries. 80% 
of these have been trained. We con -
tinue to deliver technical training 6.6 Raise awareness on water 
issues amongst customers, 
colleagues and suppliers
TIMELINE STATUS
YEAR-TO-YEAR ON TRACKamong our technical staff and new 
suppliers to secure their awareness 
and knowledge on water manage -
ment. 
This year, we launched strategic water 
training for all our managers. The aim 
of this training was not just to raise 
the management’s awareness of water 
scarcity, but also to help in future 
decision-making processes and an 
even closer integration of water risks 
and opportunities in our sourcing 
strategy. 
In 2014, we trained our first-tier 
fac tories in three different areas: 
general water awareness, our water 
requirements, technical water test -
ing and technical training on ETP 
functionality. The focus for 2015 was 
on training our second-tier factories 
and up to now, 53% of them have 
undergone the training. 
We constantly strive to inform our 
customers about the importance 
of water in textile production. With 
the Clevercare label, we are focusing 
on water and energy reduction after 
garments leave our stores. The label encourages customers to take care 
of their garments in more conscious 
ways and since 2014, all of our gar -
ments have the Clevercare label 
included in their washing instruc -
tions.
>clevercare.info
Focus: Water stewardshipCOMMITMENT SIX – USE NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLY107 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious ActionsThe Yangtze and Brahmaputra river 
basins are the two most important 
water sources for our supplier fac -
tories with wet processes. This means  
we are especially focused on industry 
engagement reaching beyond the fac -
tory lines of individual companies 
in order to drive holistic improve -
ments. Together with the WWF, we 
have developed and rolled out dedi -
cated water stewardship methodol -
ogy. In China, we have developed a 
detailed method for engagement with 
the industry, policymakers, China 
National Textile & Apparel Council 
(CNTAC), other brands, local NGOs 
and communities. We are currently 
running a pilot project and our 
ultimate goal is to implement our 
method across several industrial 
parks in the Yangtze to strengthen 
analysis of shared water risks and 
water planning. We also support NEW 6.7 Implement water 
engagement plans for the 
Yangtze (China) and Brahma -
putra (Bangladesh) river basins
TIMELINE STATUS
2015 DONE
20137%
20147%
20155%
20145%
20152%
20139%% OF USED WATER THAT IS RECYCLED
Y ANGTZE REGION
BRAHMAPUTRA REGIONthe WWF’s conservation project to 
sustain the Yangtze finless porpoise 
and contribute to positive develop -
ments for the river ecosystems. 
In Bangladesh, together with the 
WWF we have conducted (1) a gap 
analysis on water management legi -
slation investigating challenges in 
national water governance and (2) 
an economic risk analysis of how 
current business practices and water 
impacts affect long-term growth and 
production in the country. The pur -
pose has been to form a powerful 
foundation for better water manage -
ment in Bangladesh. Both reports 
were launched in early 2016 with 
the 2030 Water Resources Group. 
The governance report found that 
both water infrastructure investment 
and sustainable water management 
clearly rely on good water governance, 
and that there are major opportuni -
ties to strengthen water governance. 
This includes ensuring that regula -
tions are properly monitored and 
enforced with purposeful penalties, 
that water-related government bodies 
have clear mandates, resources and reporting mechanisms, and that 
busi  nesses, farmers and community  
mem  bers are fully included in deci -
sion-making on water.
Key findings from the economic 
report show that the gap between 
water policy and implementation 
in Bangladesh is likely to affect the 
country’s GDP, living standards, food 
security and textile export growth 
by 2030. The report suggests that 
taking decisive action on water gov -
ernance could create major savings 
in health expenses and cost reduc -
tions for irrigation pumping by 
farmers. It would also prevent textile 
production sites from running out 
of usable water in major industrial 
areas. 
>ctei.cn  
>wwf.panda.org  
>230wrg.orgBrahmaputra Yangtze201352%10%36%2%
20131%98%1%
2015 201457%85%13%1%1%
36%5%
20141%99%
20151%99%WATER WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCE IN SUPPLIER FACTORIES LOCATED  
IN BRAHMAPUTRA, BANGLADESH AND YANGTZE, CHINA
RIVER WA TERGROUND WA TEROTHER
MUNICIPAL WA TER
2%Focus: Water stewardshipCOMMITMENT SIX – USE NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLY108 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our strategy Our missionChemicals are essential in many things 
that we use in our everyday lives, as  
well as in the manufacturing of clothes.  
It’s our task to uphold the strictest 
standards for handling chemicals and 
eradicate any hazardous chemicals 
going into our supply chain. We want 
to guarantee that our products are free 
from any harmful substances. Look -
ing beyond the products, it is equally 
important to ensure safe working 
conditions for the people making our 
products and to protect the environ -
ment.We follow the precautionary principle to avoid any 
harmful chemicals going into our supply chain. 
This means that we ban substances even if they are 
not legislated or if there is any indication of scien -
tific uncertainties. Our main focus is on preventing 
restricted substance use at our first-tier and material 
suppliers. The chemical inventory list is one of our 
new minimum requirements to secure a strengthened 
supplier chemical management system. It helps us 
increase control of the chemicals that are used by 
our suppliers when making our products. This way, 
we can avoid the use and discharge of hazardous 
substances and control the chemicals that are used 
for dyeing, printing and washing processes. 
We continually review and update our chemical 
restrictions including our Manufacturing Restricted 
Substances List (MRSL) and Restricted Substance 
List (RSL). Based on risk assessments for each indi -
vidual product order, we perform regular tests – most  
of them in third-party laboratories. Additionally, 
we conduct specific chemical audits, for example, 
by checking what is referred to as the Safety Data 
Sheet (SDS). 
We have ongoing training in our chemical restrictions 
and management, with additional focus on factories 
with chemical-intense processes such as dyeing and 
printing. In 2015, we partnered with SGS to deliver 
hazardous substances control (HSC) training. This 
training introduces key chemical management concepts and some basic tools in order 
to assist factories in controlling their 
chemical input in their processing, 
which is different from ordinary chemi -
cal training available in the market. 
We have integrated our work towards 
Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemi -
cals (ZDHC) into our new chemical 
management strategy. Furthermore, we have enhanced our stakeholder 
engagement by including other indu -
stries and governments to further 
advance chemical management and 
transparency and also actively promote 
stricter legislation.
>hm.com/chemical-restrictions  
>sgs.com  
>roadmaptozero.com
Focus: Chemical managementCOMMITMENT SIX – USE NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLY109 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious ActionsH&M is detox-committed  and we are 
an active part of the ZDHC group. 
We are working actively to implement 
the joint roadmap with milestones 
to secure a cleaner environment with 
increased accountability and lead 
our industry to zero discharge of 
hazardous chemicals by 2020. This 
involves working on a methodology 
to find safer alternatives and research 
list prioritisation. 
Together with other committed ZDHC 
brands we are engaging with stake -
holders such as governments, textile 
industry associations, NGOs, third-
party labs and the chemical industry 
to raise awareness of industry stand -
ards and work collaboratively for 
change. It is vital to engage with key 
supply chain actors, the chemical 
industry and associations in Asia to 
drive best industry standard adop -
tion, research for alternatives and 6.8 Help to lead our industry 
towards zero discharge of 
hazardous chemicals
TIMELINE STATUS
2020 ON TRACKpromote the best available chemicals. 
>hm.com/towardszerodischarge  
>roadmaptozero.com  
>apparelcoalition.org
So far, we have been using the Insti -
tute of Public and Environment 
Affairs (IPE) for data disclosure for 
roughly 60 strategic suppliers in 
Bang  ladesh, China, India, Cambodia 
and Indonesia. Now, we have started 
to deve  lop additional solutions to pro -
vide all suppliers with the best pos -
sible disclosure mechanism. Through 
extensive re   search we have found that 
the Pollution Release Tran  sfer Regis -
ter (PRTR) is an effective method 
to prevent intentional use of hazard -
ous chemicals in the manufacturing 
process. 
Inspired by the PRTR methodology, 
we are currently working on imple -
menting a similar method together 
with Bureau Veritas, a global leader 
in Testing, Inspection and Certifica -
tion (TIC). The methodology is called 
E Cube and will provide three key 
chemical management indices to help 6.9 Develop a new method to 
ensure data disclosure for all 
strategic suppliers
TIMELINE STATUS
2016 ON TRACKpredict supplier performance. 
 
The indices include (1) Transparency 
index (2) Greener chemical index 
and (3) Discharge performance index. 
This method is validated by Hong 
Kong University. 
>ipe.org.cn  
>prtr.net  
>burueauveritas.se
We are implementing a new  
methodology, E Cube , to prevent inten -
tional use of hazardous chemicals  
in the manufacturing process.Focus: Chemical managementCOMMITMENT SIX – USE NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLY110 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious ActionsOur products are tested against chem -
ical restrictions that are amongst the  
strictest in the industry and here we 
follow the precautionary principle. 
In 2015, we conducted nearly 41,000 
tests to ensure compliance with our 
chemical restrictions. We review our 
restriction lists at least once a year.
We are also increasingly focusing 
on the actual chemical input in the 
production processes. In 2013, we 
introduced our positive lists to help  
our suppliers choose the chemical  
products that comply with our restric -
tions. We started with positive lists 
from three chemical producers and 
this year we have a total of ten pro -
ducers. We will keep increasing the 
number of positive lists to help the 
industry move towards better sub -
stitutions. We also ensure awareness 
of the Manufacturing Restricted Sub -
stances List (MRSL) requirements 6.10 Develop improved chemi -
cal management practices for 
our suppliers
TIMELINE STATUS
2017 ON TRACKand in 2015, we extended MRSL 
training to also include our second-
tier suppliers. 
Our new chemical management 
strategy, Best Chemical Management 
Practice (BCMP), aims to drive better 
purchasing practices to control the 
chemical input and ensure traceability 
in the production cycle. This includes 
a new systematic method to monitor 
the chemicals that are used and dis -
charged in production units. This way, 
we can phase out hazardous chemi -
cals and find substitutes for them. 
During 2015, we ran pilot projects 
at 15 strategic suppliers to review 
their chemical management systems 
ac cording to the notion of Plan-Do-
Check-Act. From the results, we have 
identified strengths and areas for 
im provement at these factories. In 
general, most of the factories have 
developed a good chemical policy and 
monitoring system, but more efforts 
need to be made in operation routines 
and self-assessment areas. Our aim 
is to have the method in place by 2017.
>hm.com/chemical-restrictionsOur chemical restrictions  
are among the strictest  in the 
industry. In 2015 , we conducted 
nearly 41,000 tests . 
Focus: Chemical managementCOMMITMENT SIX – USE NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLY111 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015
As a continuously growing 
organisation across the globe, 
our values and the way we work  
affect many people. With this in mind, 
we believe it is crucial to contribute 
positively to the commu  nities along 
our value chain. It is important to us  
that we drive lasting change and that 
these communities benefit from having  
us there. 
Our strategic investments and partner -
ships help us to extend these impacts. 
We want to create shared value for us 
as a com  pany, our customers and local 
com  munities. In addition, we believe 
it is vital to both communicate with and 
engage our customers and colleagues 
on community issues. We do so, for 
in stance, through specially designed 
collections, additional in-store cam -
paigns and garment donations.
To reach beyond our value chain, the 
H&M Foundation, an independent, 
nonprofit, global foundation invests 
in people, communities and innovation 
to drive positive change. — COMMITMENT SEVEN —
Strengthen  
communities112 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015ActionsPerformance overview
Key performance 2015
She was just 10 years 
old when she 
decided  that 
someday, she 
would become 
a manager .
Today, she is running  
a handloom 
business  in the 
Mullaitivu district.Rajitha , 31, grew 
up in the Mullaitivu 
district in north  
eastern Sri Lanka , 
which is considered 
one of the country’s 
poorest 
districts . 
The H&M Foun -
dation  has teamed 
up with CARE , a 
global poverty-fighting 
organisation, to start a 
project called WEAVE 
to enhance  
these women’s 
opportunities  
in the handloom 
industry and link them 
to sustainable 
markets . Still, Rajitha 
and women like 
her are held back 
by difficulties 
in accessing 
markets  
and capital. NO. OF GARMENTS DONATED  
TO AID ORGANISATIONS
4,621,7544,808,308
3,454,546
3,200,000
2013 2014 2015 2012 201190,000
2012164,000
2013680,000
20141,200,000NO. OF COTTON FARMERS TRAINED 
AND ACCREDITED FOR BETTER COTTON 
INITIATIVE (ACCUMULATED)
Figures have been re-stated to align with BCI reported 
data and reporting cycles. The latest figures available 
are 2014 calendar year figures. 
5.2 6.1 4.6
0.80.11.41.7 1.2 0.6 1.5
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015TOTAL COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS/DONATIONS (IN MILLION USD)
For 2015 the H&M 
Foun  dation’s 
total is pledged 
donations (not 
disbursed) cov -
ering the period 
1 Jan to 31 Dec. 
The currency is 
converted from 
SEK local asper 
30 Nov. For 2015 
H&M’s total don -
ation also includes 
shared value 
investments. H&M FOUNDA TIONH&M
CUSTOMERS10.7
13.2
5.138.7
1.2©CARECOMMITMENT SEVEN – STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIES113 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Performance overviewPROGRESS OVERVIEWTIMELINE STATUS
MORE TO DO ON TRACK DONE
FOCUS – INVESTMENTS IN SHARED VALUE ALONG OUR VALUE CHAIN
7.1 CREATE AND CONTRIBUTE TO MORE AND BETTER EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES YEAR-TO-YEAR
7.2 HELP TRAIN 1 MILLION COTTON FARMERS TO GROW COTTON WITH LESS IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT AND IMPROVE LIVELIHOOD 2015
7.3 PROVIDE AT LEAST 500,000 PEOPLE WITH ACCESS TO SAFE WATER IN COUNTRIES WHERE OUR PRODUCTS ARE MADE 2016
7.4 IMPLEMENT THE NEW COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2016
FOCUS – MAKING A DIFFERENCE BEYOND H&M’S VALUE CHAIN – THE H&M FOUNDATION
7.5 ENABLE 73,600 CHILDREN TO BENEFIT FROM EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMMES 2017
7.6 PROVIDE 250,000 STUDENTS WITH ACCESS TO CLEAN WATER AND TOILETS IN SCHOOLS AND EDUCATE THEM IN HYGIENE PRACTICES 2017
7.7 PROVIDE 100,000 WOMEN IN POOR COMMUNITIES WORLDWIDE WITH SKILLS TRAINING AND/OR SEED CAPITAL TO START UP OR EXPAND THEIR OWN BUSINESS 2017
7.8 PROVIDE EMERGENCY RELIEF AND DONATIONS AS REQUIRED
7.9 NEW – LAUNCH THE GLOBAL CHANGE AWARD FOR BOLD IDEAS THAT CREATE CHANGE 2015 *COMMITMENT SEVEN – STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIES
*Done prior to the publication of this report in early 2016.114 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our strategy Our missionHealthy ecosystems and prosperous 
and stable markets where human rights 
are respected are crucial to long-term 
business success. People should have 
fair chances to develop their skills 
with    out facing any discrimination 
and should be given the opportunity 
to make a dig  nified living. In order to 
secure our profitability and growth in 
the future, we want to make sure that 
the communities around us benefit 
from our presence wherever we operate. 
The way we do business must contrib -
ute to their development and create 
shared value. Through additional 
in  vestments and collaborations we 
enhance this value. This way, we want 
to make a lasting difference to the 
livelihood of millions of people, their 
human rights and the environment 
around them wherever we operate 
and across our value chain. In 2015, the Sustainable Development Goals were 
adopted by the UN. With 17 ambitious goals, these 
lead the way for states as well as companies like us 
for the next 15 years. We have actively contributed 
to the development of the goals along with thousands 
of other actors. But maybe even more importantly, 
we want to make sure that we contribute to the 
implementation of these through the way we do 
business. Therefore, we work across our operations 
with our suppliers and increasingly with their sup -
pliers and across our entire value chain to not only 
create jobs in particular for women, but even more 
so to ensure that these jobs create a better livelihood 
for people and the communities they live in. We use 
our influence to promote human rights, education 
and training, for example, providing workers at our 
supplier factories with access to skills development 
programmes (s. 2.19) as well as raising environmen -
tal consciousness. To further extend these impacts, 
we invest in strategic initiatives and long-term col -
laborations with partners such as WaterAid, UNICEF 
and the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) that help us 
extend the positive impacts we create through our 
business. 
>sustainabledevelopment.un.orgCREATE  
POSITIVE IMPACT
Through the way 
we do businessINVESTMENTS  
IN SHARED VALUE
Along our value chain
OUR OPERATIONS
& SUPPLIERS
COMMUNITIES ALONG
 OUR VALUE CHAIN
COMMUNITIES BEYOND  
OUR VALUE CHAIN
MAKE A DIFFERENCE
Beyond H&M’s value chain
– the H&M FoundationFocus: Investments in shared value 
along our value chainCOMMITMENT SEVEN – STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIES115 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious ActionsWe are a growing business and with 
our growth, new job opportunities 
follow. In 2015, we created more than 
16,000 new jobs (net) within the H&M 
Group. In total, we have created 
61,000 jobs (net) globally in the past 
five years. At the end of 2015, the 
number of H&M employees amounted 
to more than 148,000 (2014: 132,000).
Additionally, our business contributes 
to job opportunities for around 1.6 
million people employed by our sup -
pliers, of whom 60% are women. We 
are confident that we can keep creat -
ing further employment opportuni -
ties both in our own operations and 
throughout our value chain.7.1 Create and contribute to 
more and better employment 
opportunities
TIMELINE STATUS
YEAR-TO-YEAR DONE61,000  new jobs 
have been created in our stores, 
offices and warehouses in the 
last five years .
Through our membership with the 
Better Cotton Initiative (BCI), we help 
train cotton farmers to grow cotton 
in a way that is measurably better for 
the environment, farming commu -
nities and the economies of cotton-
producing areas. We are a founding 
member and have been a major con  -
tributor to BCI since its establishment 
in 2009. So far, we have invested 
a total of more than 4 million euro, 
making us the biggest financial con -
tributor. BCI plays an important role 
in reaching our goal to only use cot -
ton from sustainable sources by  7.2 Help train 1 million cotton 
farmers to grow cotton with 
less impact on the environ -
ment and improve livelihoods
TIMELINE STATUS
2015 DONE2020 at the latest (s. 1.2). 
Training cotton farmers helps us 
secure the supply that we need as 
our use of Better Cotton is constantly 
increasing. The WWF and Solidari -
dad are two of BCI’s implementation 
partners, ensuring farmers receive 
both the necessary training and 
know-how. Since 2010, more than 
1.2 million farmers have been trained 
and licensed as BCI farmers, which 
exceeded BCI’s goal of 1 million farm -
ers. The next goal is to train 5 million 
farmers and and produce 30% of 
global cotton production by 2020. 
>bettercotton.orgJOB CREATION (NET) IN OUR STORES, 
OFFICES AND WAREHOUSES*
20117,000
201210,000
201312,000
201416,000
201516,000
*Total number of new employees within the H&M Group.Since 2010, more than 1.2 million 
cotton farmers have been accredited 
by the Better Cotton Initiative. 201190,000
2012164,000
2013680,000
20141,200,000NO. OF COTTON FARMERS TRAINED 
AND ACCREDITED FOR BETTER COTTON 
INITIATIVE (ACCUMULATED)
Figures have been re-stated to align with BCI reported 
data and reporting cycles. The latest figures available 
are 2014 calendar year figures. Focus: Investments in shared value 
along our value chainCOMMITMENT SEVEN – STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIES116 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Our Conscious ActionsOver 650 million people* in the world 
do not have access to clean water. 
We want to play our part in tackling 
this challenge, especially in the coun -
tries where our products are made. 
Globally, H&M and the H&M Founda -
tion have set a goal to provide at least 
500,000 people with access to safe 
water by 2016. Together with part -
ners such as WaterAid, we have now 
reached this goal a year earlier than 
planned and have provided more 
than 530,000 people in Bangladesh, 
India, Pakistan and Ethiopia with 
clean water since 2002. 
Another example illustrating our 
work with water issues is a local 
initiative in India. From workers 
interviews we know that many of the 
employees at our supplier factories 
live in areas without access to ade -
quate water, sanitation and hygiene 7.3 Provide at least 500,000 
people with access to safe 
water in countries where our 
products are made
TIMELINE STATUS
2016 DONEservices and practice. To address 
this problem, we teamed up with 
WaterAid to demonstrate and train 
about the importance of clean water 
and hygiene (WASH). The project 
runs over three years and includes 
14 supplier factories and 15 schools 
where children of garment workers 
study, and will offer improved infra -
structure in the wider communities 
in which the workers live. So far, we 
have reached over 12,000 workers 
with training and 3,000 students 
with improved water and toilet facil -
ities. Over 2,000 households in the 
communities are now also practicing 
sustainable solid waste management 
thanks to the project.The roll-out of our new community 
development strategy in 2014 was a 
significant step to further strengthen 
our community work and our busi -
ness decisions locally. The strategy 
allows us to focus more on strategic, 
long-term projects and initiatives 
with expected returns for both our 
business and the local communities 
where we operate, in what are known 
as shared value investments. These 
are defined as business cases that 
address a challenge for us to reach 
key business goals in the market 
by working on the community level 
with partners. In 2015, 77% of all of 
our investments and donations were 
shared value investments. A few 
examples are the Better Cotton Ini -
tiative (s. 7.2), WaterAid (s. 7.3) and 
the skills development programmes 
for workers at our supplier factories 
(s. 2.19).7.4 Implement the new com -
munity development strategy 
TIMELINE STATUS
2016 ON TRACK
*Source wateraid.org.Together with partners such as WaterAid, 
we have helped more than 530,000 people 
in Bangladesh, India, Pakistan 
and Ethiopia  gain access to safe water .
Focus: Investments in shared value 
along our value chainCOMMITMENT SEVEN – STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIES117 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Strategy
The H&M Foundation drives positive long-lasting 
change by investing in people and communities 
beyond H&M’s value chain. As an independent, 
nonprofit, global foundation financed by H&M’s 
founder and major shareholder family, it comple -
ments H&M’s sustainability work.The H&M Foundation is funded by the 
Stefan Persson family, the founders and 
main owners of H&M. Thanks to their 
donations – a total of SEK 900 million 
(USD 130 million/EUR 102 million) 
since 2013 – it is possible for the H&M 
Foundation to drive positive change on 
a global scale. The H&M Foundation 
works with three focus areas: Educa -
tion, Clean Water and Strengthening 
Women. These focus areas were chosen 
by H&M customers and employees 
through a global online vote in 2013. 
Through its three global programmes, 
the H&M Foundation works together 
with UNICEF, WaterAid and CARE 
to drive transformative change by 
addressing structural barriers and 
promote new policy within each focus 
area. The three programmes receive  
a total of SEK 60 million (USD 27.9 
million/EUR 20.4 million) each within  
a three-year period (1 February 2014 
to 31 January 2017). 
Besides the global programmes, the 
H&M Foundation supports local pro -
jects in countries where H&M operates 
with the aim of achieving positive and 
direct impact on people’s everyday lives. The H&M Foundation works with a 
range of partner organisations with 
specific local knowledge to address 
issues within the three focus areas. 
During 2015, local projects were initi -
ated in India, Bangladesh, Sweden and 
Ethiopia. In addition, the H&M Found -
ation is able to quickly provide emer -
gency relief support in the case of any 
sudden natural disasters in a country 
where H&M operates. The foundation 
initiates discussions with community 
partners to determine if and what sup -port is needed in order to swiftly allevi -
ate the suffering of the affected people.
Additionally, through the Global 
Change Award, the H&M Foundation 
has created one of the world’s largest 
competitions to protect the earth’s 
natural resources by investing in close 
the loop innovation, providing grants 
of one million euro annually.
>hm.com/hmfoundation1)  Mentioned on pages 117, 119 (s. 7.5, 7.6) and 120 (s. 7.7). Donations pledged in 2014. 
2) Mentioned on page 117.
3) Mentioned on pages 117 and 121 (s. 7.8).
4) Mentioned on page 117. 
5) Mentioned on page 26 (s. 1.11).
*Referring to the full calendar year of 2015.
**Of which SEK 115,723,698 has been disbursed during 2015. The disbursed amount 
exceeds the sum of total pledged donations due to annual payments related to 
programmes initiated in earlier years. PLEDGED DONATIONS 2015* (IN SEK)
Three global programmes 1)0
Local projects 2)15,865,000
Emergency relief 3)6,804,773
Global giving Holiday Campaign 4)20,000,000
Dream fund 5)1,390,481
T O TA L* * 44,060,254
©UNICEFMissionFocus: Making a difference beyond H&M’s value chain  
– The H&M FoundationCOMMITMENT SEVEN – STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIES118 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015What does fashion mean to you?
Fashion draws inspiration from all 
over the place and therefore it’s natu -
ral that it should celebrate all cultures 
and colours. I’ve always been told that 
beauty isn’t the clothes or makeup you 
wear; that those are only things that 
can enhance the natural beauty of 
a woman. Which is within. 
Out of all the causes you work for, 
which one do you keep closest to 
your heart?
I’ve always advocated the importance 
of education, especially for girls. If you 
educate a girl, you educate a family, 
a community and a society. My father 
told me that you can lose everything, 
but you can never lose your knowledge.
What do you do with clothes and items 
that you’re not wearing anymore?
I have a lot of nieces and sisters who 
I hand down clothes and items to. 
I try to clean out my wardrobe every 
spring and winter, and that makes me 
realise I don’t wear a lot of the clothes 
I have and I have quite a lot because 
of the nature of my work. There are 
centres and local stores where I leave 
the clothes my relatives don’t want. Interview with Alek Wek, supermodel and official ambassador of the H&M FoundationFocus: Making a difference beyond H&M’s value chain 
– The H&M Foundation
COMMITMENT SEVEN – STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIES
I also go to the Salvation Army and 
leave clothes. One man’s trash truly 
is another man’s treasure!
A lot of us want to make a difference 
and work for positive change in the 
world. What contribution can every -
body make?
Educate yourself! Go online and look 
for information and you can find 
something that can fit your schedule 
and curiosity.119 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Actions
The brain’s ability to develop is str  o  n-
g est before the age of eight. Early 
childhood care and education are 
especially important to lay the foun -
dation for this development – for the 
individual child as well as for the 
entire community. However, approx -
imately one-third of the children 
under the age of five in developing 
countries are not achieving their 
development potential. 
Funding of early childhood develop -
ment is not commonly prioritised 
by government agencies or donors. 
To help tackle this global challenge, 
the H&M Foundation teamed up 
with UNICEF to invest in children’s 
early education and development. 
This flagship programme aims 
to reach 73,600 children who will 
benefit from early childhood devel -
opment programmes by 2017. 7.5 Enable 73,600 children to 
benefit from early childhood 
development programmes
TIMELINE STATUS
2017 ON TRACK Additionally, the aim is to lift the 
topic on the global agenda by sup -
porting three governments in inte -
grating early childhood develop  ment 
in their development agendas and 
national budgets as well as by creating 
the first ever global report on early 
childhood development, providing 
the necessary data to base policies on 
and measure their success. In 2015, 
UNICEF continued the implementa -
tion process of the planned activities 
initiating collaborations with govern -
ments, encouraging them to invest in 
early childhood development. Since 
2014, more than 45,000 children 
have benefitted from the H&M Foun -
dation’s funded activities in terms 
of early childhood care and education 
– giving them a good start in life. 
>unicef.orgImagine if you didn’t have access 
to a toilet or clean water. This is the 
reality for over 50% of the students 
in developing countries in their 
schools. This lack contributes to 
disease and has negative impacts 
on education, but it also has wider 
implications on gender equality, 
development and economic growth 
in these communities. This is why 
the H&M Foundation has partnered 
with WaterAid to provide 250,000 
students with access to clean water 
and toilets in schools and to hygiene 
education. 7.6 Provide 250,000 students 
with access to clean water and 
toilets in schools and educate 
them in hygiene practices
TIMELINE STATUS
2017 ON TRACK
In 2015, WaterAid continued the 
implementation process of the pro -
gramme and worked closely with gov -
ernments to prioritise clean water and 
sanitation as part of school policies. 
So far, almost 100,000 schoolchildren 
have received access to clean water, 
adequate toilets and hygiene educa -
tion in their schools. Beyond this, the 
programme has aimed to influence 
the post-2015 framework and the UN Approximately one-third  
of the children under the age of five  
in developing countries are not achieving 
their development potential .
50% of the students in developing 
countries lack access to a toilet or 
clean water in their schools.
©WaterAid
Sustainable Development Goals to 
include a goal on water and sanitation 
as well as targets to provide safe water, 
sanitation and hygiene for all schools 
globally. Thanks to successful cam -
paigning by WaterAid together with 
other actors, water and sanitation 
were included in Goal 6 in the new 
UN Sustainable Development Goals 
adopted in September 2015. Further -
more, WaterAid continues to advocate 
that access to clean drinking water, 
sanitation and hand-washing facili -
ties in schools should be an indicator 
measuring the progress on Goal 4, 
which guarantees inclusive and 
equitable quality education for all. 
>wateraid.org  
>sustainabledevelopment.un.orgFocus: Making a difference beyond H&M’s value chain 
– The H&M FoundationCOMMITMENT SEVEN – STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIES120 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Actions
60% of the world’s working poor are 
women. Globally, women spend at 
least twice as much time as men doing 
unpaid domestic work, and their total 
work hours are longer than men’s in 
all regions of the world. Women have 
less access to education, financial 
services and resources, technical 
and vocational skills training as well 
as limited rights to own and inherit 
property. Women often face more 
barriers, both cultural and structural, 
than men in most aspects of life. 
In partnership with the international 
humanitarian and development orga -
nisation CARE, the H&M Foundation 
is committed to empowering women 
in developing countries. One of the 
goals is to provide 100,000 women 
in poor communities worldwide with 
business skills training and/or seed 7.7 Provide 100,000 women 
in poor communities world -
wide with skills training and/
or seed capital to start up or 
expand their own business
TIMELINE STATUS
2017 ON TRACK capital to start up or expand their 
business by 2017. Studies show that 
societies as a whole benefit when 
countries practice gender equality. 
Beyond that, the programme aims 
to break down myths and beliefs 
about women’s abilities through 
regional campaigns with inspiring 
role models. Furthermore, by advo -
cating policy changes, more women 
can reach their full potential and 
exercise their rights. 
In 2015, CARE continued the imple -
mentation process of the programme. 
So far almost 75,000 women from 
poor communities have been sup -
ported in their entrepreneurship and 
strengthened economically. CARE 
has been working closely with govern -
ments to establish the conditions 
needed for lasting change. Govern -
ments can create favourable condi -
tions for women entrepreneurs and 
CARE helps establish a constructive 
dialogue between the two. For exam -
ple, in Peru and in Jordan, CARE 
brings together local government 
officials and entrepreneurs to discuss 
needs for better infrastructure and 
tax conditions. On basis of these on-the-ground initiatives, evidence 
is gathered for a global report advo -
cating global policy change on  
women’s rights. 
>care.org
Societies as a whole benefit when countries practice 
gender equality. So far, almost 75,000 women from 
poor communities have been supported in their entre -
preneurship and strengthened economically through 
the H&M Foundation and CARE’s partnership.
©CAREFocus: Making a difference beyond H&M’s value chain 
– The H&M FoundationCOMMITMENT SEVEN – STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIES121 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Actions
In 2015, Nepal suffered a devastating 
earthquake affecting more than 8 
million people all together, including 
3.2 million children. In response, 
the H&M Foundation donated USD 
100,000 to Save the Children’s relief 
efforts. The donation enabled Save 
the Children to provide hygiene kits, 
blankets, tents, nutrition and child-
friendly spaces.
Additionally, the H&M Foundation 
made the decision to donate USD 
500,000 to support the organisation 
UNHCR in their emergency relief 
work related to the Mediterranean 
refugee crisis, offering refugees food, 
medical care and shelter as well as 
migration services. The H&M Foun -
dation also made a follow-up dona  tion 
of another USD 100,000 to the Rana 
Plaza Donors Trust Fund (after an 
ini tial donation of USD 100,000 in 
2014) in order to support the victims 
of the Rana Plaza disaster and their 7.8 Provide emergency relief 
and donations
TIMELINE STATUS
AS REQUIRED DONE
families in Bangladesh. The H&M 
Foun dation made this donation based 
on humanitarian grounds, even 
though H&M never had any business 
relations with any factories in Rana 
Plaza.
 
At the end of 2015, the H&M Foun -
da tion made a donation of USD 
100,000 to Save the Children towards 
emergency relief efforts in Ethiopia 
where the current drought is forecast 
to be the worst in 30 years. The sup -
port will be directed towards food 
and nutrition, clean water, sanita -
tion and hygiene as well as basic 
education for children in affected 
areas.In addition to the H&M Foundation’s 
emergency relief, H&M’s customers 
and staff donated about USD 680,000 
through in-store campaigns to causes 
such as UNICEF’s relief to refugees 
from Syria and the Nepal earthquake. 
Additionally, each year, H&M donates 
large quantities of clothes to organi -
sations and charities in the countries 
where H&M operates. To support these 
efforts there is an explicit garment 
donation policy at H&M stating that 
all unsold, safe-to-use products should 
be donated to charity or, if possible, 
recycled into something new. In 2015, 
H&M donated more than 4.8 million 
items of garments globally.
In 2015, the H&M Foundation 
donated to Save the Children’s relief  
efforts in Nepal, to UNHCR’s work 
with the Mediterranean refugee 
crisis and to the Rana Plaza Donors 
Trust Fund in Bangladesh. 
© Tom Cakenberghe/Save the childrenFocus: Making a difference beyond H&M’s value chain 
– The H&M FoundationCOMMITMENT SEVEN – STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIES122 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Actions
Creating a closed loop for fashion 
will require a lot more innovation 
and bold ideas that haven’t even been 
born yet. The Global Change Award 
is an innovation competition by the 
H&M Foundation that was launched 
in August 2015. It takes on one of the 
biggest challenges facing today’s fash -
ion industry – how to create fashion 
for a growing population while reduc -
ing its impact on the environment. 
By catalysing green, ground-breaking 
ideas, the aim of the competition is to 
protect the planet by closing the loop 
for fashion. 
The first award ceremony took place 
in February 2016 where five winning 
ideas received grants totaling one 
million euro. The winners were 
selected out of more than 2,700 
entries from 112 countries by an NEW 7.9 Launch the Global 
Change Award for bold ideas 
that create change 
TIMELINE STATUS
2015 DONE*expert jury. Additionally, the global 
public was invited to distribute the 
grant through an online vote. Neither 
the Foundation nor H&M will take 
any equity or intellectual property 
rights in these innovations.
In addition to the grants, the winners 
will also be provided with a one-year 
innovation accelerator, a collabora -
tion with Accenture and the Royal 
Institute of Technology in Stockholm 
(KTH). They will also receive coach -
ing, exclusive fashion industry access 
and opportunities to build networks 
and try out the ideas within the 
fashion value chain.
>globalchangeaward.com
*Completed during 2016 before publica -
tion of this report.“The question for fashion is no longer “What 
is the new black?” but rather, ‘What innovative 
ideas can close the loop?’”  
Rebecca Earley, Professor in Sustainable Textile and Fashion Design  
at University of the Arts LondonFocus: Making a difference beyond H&M’s value chain 
– The H&M FoundationCOMMITMENT SEVEN – STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIES
Five ideas 
to close the loop 
for fashion
100% citrus: create new textile out of citrus  
juice production by-products.
The polyester digester: use microbes to recyle  
waste polyester textiles.
Growing fibre under water: utilise algae  
to make renewable textiles.
Making waste-cotton new: convert waste  
cotton into new textiles. 
An online market for textile leftovers:  
a marketplace for industrial upcycling  
of spill in production.Global Change Award jury
Mr. Ma Jun  Director, Institute of Public  
and Environmental Affairs, China 
Dr. Michael Braungart  Academic Chair  
“Cradle to Cradle for Innovation and Quality”  
at Erasmus University Rotterdam; Professor  
at Leuphana University Lüneburg; Scientific  
Director of EPEA Hamburg 
Prof. Rebecca Earley  Professor in Sustainable  
Textile and Fashion Design at University  
of the Arts London and Director of its Textile 
Futures Research Centre (TFRC)
 
Ms. Eva Kruse  CEO, Danish Fashion Institute;  
CEO, Copenhagen Fashion Week 
Prof. Johan Rockström  Director of the Stockholm 
Resilience Centre (SRC) and Professor in Environ -
mental Science with emphasis on water resources 
and global sustainability at Stockholm University 
Mr. Ellis Rubinstein  President and CEO,  
The New York Academy of Sciences 
Ms. Franca Sozzani  Editor in Chief of Vogue Italia 
Ms. Amber Valletta  Supermodel, Actress  
and Entrepreneur. 123 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015Auditor review statementINFORMATION
To H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB
We have been engaged by the manage -
ment of H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB 
(H&M) to perform a limited assurance 
engagement on the information in 
H&M’s Conscious Actions Sustainabil -
ity Report 2015 with regard to the 
following indicators referred to in the 
GRI index that can be found in the 
‘GRI index 2015’:
Identified material aspects and 
boundaries (G4-17 to G4-23), pages 
126–127. Stakeholder engagement 
(G4-24 to G4-27), pages 12 and 126.
Energy: Energy consumption within 
the organisation (G4-EN3), p. 82.
Energy intensity (G4-EN5), p. 82.
Percentage of renewable energy 
(AF21), p. 80.
Emissions: Direct greenhouse gas 
emissions (scope 1), (G4-EN15), p. 81.
Energy indirect greenhouse gas emis -
sions (scope 2), (G4-EN16), p. 81.
Other indirect greenhouse gas emis -
sions (scope 3), (G4-EN17), p. 84.
Materials: Materials used by weight 
or volume (G4-EN1), p. 18.Tonnes of garments collected for 
reuse and recycling, p. 92.
Supply Chain: Incidents of non-com -
pliance with Code of Conduct (AF14), 
p. 43.
Anti-corruption: Confirmed incidents 
of corruption and actions taken (G4-
SO5), p. 61.
H&M’s Conscious Actions Sustain -
ability Report 2015 covers the period 
1 December 2014 to 30 November 2015.
Management’s responsibility
The management of H&M is respon -
sible for preparing and presenting 
the H&M Conscious Actions Sustain -
ability Report in accordance with 
the reporting criteria as set out in 
the company’s own reporting guide -
lines as well as the Global Reporting 
Initiative’s (GRI) G4 guidelines. 
As discussed in the section “How we 
report,” p. 125 in the H&M Conscious 
Actions Sustainability Report, green -
house gas quantification is subject 
to inherent uncertainty because of 
incomplete scientific knowledge used 
to determine emissions factors and the values needed to combine emis -
sions of different gases.
Auditor’s responsibility
Our responsibility is to express a con -
clusion on the above specified indica -
tors in the H&M Conscious Actions 
Sustainability Report based on the 
limited assurance procedures we have 
performed. The selection of indicators 
to be reviewed has been made by 
the management of H & M Hennes 
& Mauritz AB. We do not accept, or 
assume responsibility to anyone else, 
except to H&M for our work, for the 
limited assurance report, or for the 
conclusion that we have reached. 
We conducted our limited assurance 
engagement in accordance with the 
International Standard on Assurance 
Engagements (ISAE) 3000 ‘Assurance 
Engagements Other than Audits or 
Reviews of Historical Financial Infor -
mation’. The ISAE 3000 standard 
requires that we comply with ethical 
requirements and plan and perform 
the assurance engagement to obtain 
limited assurance on whether any 
matters have come to our attention 
that would cause us to believe that the above specified information in the 
H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability 
Report has not been prepared, in all 
material respects, in accordance with 
the reporting criteria.
A limited assurance engagement 
is provided only on the information 
disclosed in the H&M Conscious 
Actions Sustainability Report, not on 
information linked to and disclosed 
on other web pages. The presented 
information in the H&M Conscious 
Actions Sustainability Report is to 
be considered in connection with 
the explanatory information on data 
collection, consolidation and assess -
ments provided by H&M. This inde -
pendent limited assurance report 
should not be used on its own as a 
basis for interpreting H&M’s perfor -
mance in relation to its principles  
of corporate responsibility.
Our review procedures are designed 
to obtain limited assurance on whether 
the above specified indicators are 
presented in accordance with the Sus -
tainability Reporting Guidelines of 
the Global Reporting Initiative, G4, 
in all material respects. 124 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015INFORMATION
A limited assurance engagement con -
sists of making inquiries, primary of 
persons responsible for the preparation 
of the H&M Conscious Actions Sustain -
ability Report and applying analytical 
and other evidence gathering proce -
dures, as appropriate. The procedures 
performed in a limited assurance 
engagement vary in nature from, and 
are less in extent than for, a reason -
able assurance engagement conducted 
in accordance with IAASB’s Stand -
ards on Auditing and Quality Control 
and other generally accepted auditing 
standards. The firm applies ISQC 1 
(International Standard on Quality 
Control) and accordingly maintains 
a comprehensive system of quality 
control including documented policies 
and procedures regarding compliance 
with ethical requirements, profes -
sional standards and applicable legal 
and regulatory requirements. The 
pro cedures performed consequently 
do not enable us to obtain assurance 
that we would become aware of all 
significant matters that might be 
identified in a reasonable assurance 
engagement. Accordingly, we do not 
express a reasonable assurance con -
clusion.Our procedures are based on the crite -
ria defined by the management as 
described above. We consider these 
criteria suitable for the preparation 
of the sustainability report.
We believe that the evidence we have 
obtained is sufficient and appropriate 
to provide a basis for our conclusion 
below. 
Conclusion
Based on our work described in this 
report, nothing has come to our atten -
tion that causes us to believe that the 
information regarding the above spec -
ified indicators in the H&M Conscious 
Actions Sustainability Report has not, 
in all material respects, been prepared 
in accordance with the reporting cri -
teria stated above.
Stockholm, April 13, 2016
Ernst & Young AB  
Åsa Lundvall
Authorised Public Accountant  
 
Charlotte Söderlund
Authorised Public AccountantAuditor review statement125 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015How we reportINFORMATION
We are committed to trans -
parent reporting on the pro -
gress we make towards meet -
ing our seven commitments. 
H&M’s Conscious Actions Sustainabil -
ity Report, which is produced annually, 
covers material sustainability strate -
gies, activities, goals and performance 
for the global Group operations of 
H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB (also called 
H&M in this report), including all of its 
brands (H&M, COS, Weekday, Monki, 
Cheap Monday, & Other Stories) as 
well as its wholly- or partially-owned 
subsidiaries globally during our finan -
cial year from 1 December 2014 to 30 
November 2015, unless stated other -
wise (for a full list of entities, please see 
our Annual Report 2015 ). We aim to 
tackle impacts wherever they occur in 
our value chain, and this is reflected in 
our reporting wherever possible. Infor -
mation limited in scope to only one of 
these brands or any other limitations 
or deviations in scope are clearly stated 
in the respective section of this report. 
Unless stated, franchise operations are 
not included. The report was reviewed 
by the highest executive management and external assurance has been per -
formed for selected indicators (clearly 
marked and where applicable as well as 
in regard to materiality and stakeholder 
engagement). Additional stakeholder 
comments and interviews have been 
included throughout this report. 
All data is collected by our sustainabil -
ity team from the relevant functions 
within our organisation and from 
ex ternal parties such as suppliers and 
implementing partners. It is always 
reviewed by our internal controlling 
team in addition to relevant experts 
in our sustainability team as well as 
expert functions following a two-tier 
quality control principle. Any extrap -
olations or estimations are clearly indi -
cated. The same goes for any changes  
in data methodologies or scope that may  
have an effect on data comparability. 
All data is based on the best possible 
systems that are currently available to 
us and where applicable aligned with 
recognised standards. However, this 
needs to be seen in the light of con -
tinued improvements in data systems 
and methodologies, as well as scientific 
uncertainties. For example, while our GHG emissions accounting and report -
ing is aligned with the GHG Protocol, 
the emission factors we use are from 
publicly available sources such as the 
International Energy Agency (IEA), 
the Network for Transport Measures 
(NTM), Reliable disclosure system for 
Europe (RE-DISS) and supplier speci -
fied emission factors. GHG emission 
data is subject to inherent uncertainties 
due to incomplete scientific knowledge 
used to determine emission factors and 
resulting effects on measurements and 
estimations. The reported energy usage 
is based on invoiced data, data from 
real-time electricity meters and data 
as reported by transport providers. 
Conversion between fuel usage and 
energy content has been carried out 
using energy values specified by the 
supplier or by using tabled values pro -
vided by national bodies. 
Unless otherwise specified, all data 
concerning suppliers and supplier 
factories includes all suppliers and 
factories that were active and approved 
for production during the reporting 
period. Factories included in our scope 
are first-tier manufacturing or process -
ing (i.e. washing and dyeing), factories that are owned or subcontracted by our suppliers 
as well as (where stated) selected second-tier sup -
pliers and suppliers for non-commercial goods 
(such as store interior suppliers).
Monetary amounts are reported mainly in the cur -
rency of transaction (usually SEK). Additional 
currency values are conversions as approximate fig -
ures based on the conversion rate on 30 November 
2015, unless stated otherwise. 
Additional information is provided at hm.com/
con scious  as well as in our financial and corporate 
governance reporting. Our most recent sustainability 
report was published in April 2014. 
We are signatories to the UN Global Compact and 
our annual Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 
also serves as our Communication on Progress (COP) 
for the UN Global Compact as well as the CEO Water 
Mandate.
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)  
This report is prepared in accordance with the 
GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (core). 
We have also included material indicators from the 
pilot of the Apparel and Footwear Sector Supplement. 
The detailed GRI Index can be found at hm.com/gri .
UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework
We are one of the first companies in the world to 126 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015report on our human rights in line with 
the UN Guiding Principles Reporting 
Framework , the first comprehensive 
guidelines for companies to report on 
human rights issues in line with its 
responsibility to respect human rights 
set out in the UN Guiding Principles 
on Business and Human Rights . The 
detailed references to the UN Guiding 
Principles Reporting Framework can 
be found at hm.com/gri . 
Below, we set out our general approach 
to assessing the materiality for our 
business of a range of sustainability 
issues and how we supplement this 
in the area of human rights with the 
process to identify our salient human 
rights issues based on an understand -
ing of risk to people.
Process for identifying the most 
material aspects and their boundaries 
In 2015, we reviewed the material 
aspects identified and published with 
our Conscious Actions Sustainability 
Report 2014. The process for defining 
the report content and the aspect 
boundaries in our 2015 Report has 
been based on the following main 
steps: Identification: Mapping aspects 
and creating a gross list 
During 2013, we identified a gross list 
of aspects through an analysis of 
external standards such as the GRI G4 
Aspect list, legislation, investor and 
NGO questionnaires, peer reviews, 
business intelligence, life-cycle assess -
ment results, stakeholder dialogues 
and stakeholder reports as well as 
media coverage. The gross list has 
been checked against GRI’s Sustain -
ability Context and Stakeholder Inclu -
siveness tests. 
Prioritisation: Scoring and 
prioritising aspects 
To prioritise the most material aspects 
from this gross list, we scored the 
different aspects with regard to their 
influence on stakeholder assessment 
and decisions and their significance 
for economic, environmental and 
social impacts. Both categories were 
broken down into a number of differ -
ent categories such as frequency raised 
by key stakeholders (weighted x3), fre -
quency featured in media (weighted 
x1) and frequency raised in key sus -
tainability benchmarks, rankings and 
indices (weighted x1) (to determine the influence on stakeholder assessment and deci -
sions) as well as social and environmental impacts 
(weighted x1) and importance to business strategy 
(weighted x2) (to determine the significance of eco -
nomic, environmental and social impacts). Scores 
were given by at least two internal experts per cat -
egory as well as based on lifecycle assessment (LCA) 
data and existing strategy documents. This way, 
about 60 aspects could be identified as material. 
For the sake of user friendliness, these were the -
matically clustered into 25 focus areas and gathered 
in a materiality matrix (p. 127). The impact scoring 
as well as the boundary descriptions were checked 
against GRI’s reasonability tests.
Validation of materiality matrix with key 
stakeholders 
To validate the matrix, we selected at least one rep -
resentative from each of our key stakeholder groups  
(including customers, colleagues, communities, sup -
pliers and their employees, industry peers, NGOs,  
IGOs, policymakers and investors). Eleven stakeholder  
representatives were asked to provide feedback on 
this materiality matrix. These organisations were 
chosen based on their know-how, their ability to 
make professional and critical judgements, and the 
coverage of aspects potentially material. Their com -
ments were gathered systematically and are incor -
porated in the materiality matrix published in this 
report. The feedback from our external stakeholder 
representatives at large confirmed this materiality analysis. No aspect was considered 
missing, but based on their feedback, 
we moved the positioning of four 
aspects in the matrix. Throughout 
this process, we used the principles 
of defining report content in order 
to secure a robust process. 
Review of materiality matrix in 2015 
In 2015, we reviewed the outcomes 
of this process based on stakeholder 
feedback gathered with the release of 
our 2014 report as well as stakeholder 
engagement processes throughout 
the year and feedback from internal 
stakeholders. We found that our mate -
riality matrix was still widely valid but 
performed a few minor adjustments  
to the scaling of some focus areas.  
We also updated our materiality assess -
ment taking the UN Guiding  Principles 
on Business and Human Rights  and 
a new assessment of our salient human 
rights issues, as well as the new UN 
Sustainable Development Goals  into 
account. Following this, we added a 
number of different aspects to our focus 
areas, namely land rights, access to 
clean water and harassment.How we reportINFORMATION127 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015FREQUENCY RAISED BY STAKEHOLDERS
SIGNIFICANCE OF ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTSReported at least in narrative,  
wherever possible with measurable KPIReported in detail, wherever possible with 
measurable KPI or preferably goal, aim for external 
assurance wherever useful
No reporting 
or reporting on requestReported at least in narrative, 
wherever possible with measurable KPIASPECTS INCLUDED
1. Materials (G4), Products and Services (G4), Product and 
Service Labelling (G4) 2. Sustainable customer behavioural 
change 3. Animal Welfare 4. Purchasing Practices, Supplier 
Environmental Assessments (G4), Supplier Assessments 
Labour Practices (G4), Investments (Human Rights) (G4, 
UNGPRF), Supplier Human Rights Assessments (G4, 
UNGPRF), Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms (G4, 
UNGPRF), Supplier Capacity Building, Labour Practices 
Grievance Mechanisms (G4), Non-discrimination (G4, UNG -
PRF), Harassment (UNGPRF), Child Labour (G4, UNGPRF), 
Forced or Compulsory Labour (G4, UNGPRF), Overtime in 
Supply Chain (G4, UNGPRF), Supply Chain Workers’ Health 
& Safety (UNGPRF), Supply Chain Fire and Building Safety 
(UNGPRF), Land rights (UNGPRF) 5. Fair living wages in 
supply chain (UNGPRF) 6. Freedom of Association and 
Collective Bargaining (G4, UNGPRF) 7. Anti-Corruption 
(G4), Public Policy (G4), Compliance (G4) 8. Employment 
(G4), Labour/Management Relations (G4), Occupational 
Health & Safety (G4, UNGPRF), Training and Education 
(G4), Employee Satisfaction 9. Investment (G4, UNGPRF), 
Assessments (G4, UNGPRF), Human Rights Grievance 
Mechanisms (G4, UNGPRF) 10. Diversity and Equal Oppor -
tunity (G4), Non-discrimination (G4, UNGPRF) 11. Marketing 
Communications (G4), Customer Privacy (G4), Compli -
ance (G4) 12. Energy (G4), Emissions (G4) 13. End of Life 
Solutions/Circular Economy Strategies 14. Effluents and 
waste (G4) 15. Packaging (G4) 16. Water (G4) 17. Effluents 
and Waste (G4), Customer Health & Safety (G4) 18. Indirect 
Economic Impacts (G4), Local Communities (G4), Access 
to clean water (UNGPRF) 19. Economic performance (G4) 
20. Market presence (G4) 21. Biodiversity (G4) 22. Overall 
(G4) 23. Anti-competitive behaviour (G4) 24. Responsible 
tax planning.
>globalreporting.orgMateriality matrix
1
25
6
789
10 111213
14151617
1819
20
21
222324OUR COMMITMENTS FOCUS AREAS
Provide fashion 
for conscious 
customersConscious products and materials
Involve our customers and colleagues
Animal welfare
Choose and
reward responsible 
partnersSupply chain management
Fair living wages
Industrial relations
Be ethical Anti-corruption
Employer of choice
Other human rights
Diversity & equality
Responsible marketing
Be climate smart Climate (Emissions from our own 
operations; Emissions along our value chain)
Reduce, reuse, 
recycleClose the loop on textile fibres
Waste
Use natural 
resources 
responsiblyPackaging
Water stewardship
Chemical management
Strenghten 
communitiesCommunity development (Investments 
in shared value; Community support; Making 
a difference beyond our value chain)
Other Economic performance
Market presence
Biodiversity
Environmental expenditures
Anti-competitive behaviour
Responsible tax planning1
2
3
34
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24How we reportINFORMATION
4128 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015How we reportINFORMATION
Process of defining our salient human rights issues 
An important part of reporting our human rights 
work in line with the UN Guiding Principles Report -
ing Framework , is to determine the salient* human 
rights issues associated with our business activities 
and business relationships. This thorough process 
took place during 2015. The starting point was to 
define who we impact through our business activities 
throughout our value chain, especially recognising 
those who have greater challenges in fulfilling their 
human rights, such as migrant workers, children and 
in some places women. The result of this mapping 
in cluded both potential and actual human rights 
im pacts. Amongst these we identified those which 
were salient by applying the criteria severity of the 
potential impact and the likelihood that this impact 
will occur.
Our sustainability program continues to aim to 
ad dress all our potential human rights impacts, 
including both salient and others. Consultations 
regarding the method and input to the identified sali -
ent human rights issues were conducted both inter -
nally and externally with close to one hundred people. 
Internally consultations were undertaken through 
workshops and dialogues on all levels of the company 
and across functions. Externally, consultations were 
held with experts, organisations, academia and local 
stakeholders. 
*The human rights at risk of the most severe negative impacts 
through the company’s operations and value chain.WHAT ARE THE SALIENT ISSUES?ACTUAL & POTENTIAL IMPACTS ON PEOPLE  
THROUGHOUT VALUE CHAIN
FAIR LIVING WAGE
A wage level that covers workers and their families’ basic needs and provides 
some discretionary income.Mainly in the production markets . We take a collaborative approach to improve wages in the 
textile industry through our Fair Living Wage roadmap (commitment 2, Focus: Fair living wages).
HEALTH & SAFETY
Working conditions that ensure the well-being and safety of workers and employees.Upholding a safe and healthy working environment in supplying factories  as well as in our own 
organisation . We engage in the Accord (commitment 2, Focus: s. 2.7), our work related to 
chemicals (commitment 6, Focus: Chemical management) and upholding our own safety standards 
(commitment 3, s. 3.9).
FORCED LABOUR
All work or services that are exacted from any person under the threat of penalty 
and the said person has not offered himself/herself voluntarily (ILO Convention 29).Potential risk upstream and downstream the value chain . Upstream, for example the risk of 
forced labour situations related to materials and processes for products and labour conditions in the 
value chain (commitment 1, Focus: Conscious products and materials, s. 1.2 and commitment 2, Focus: 
Supply chain management, s. 2.8). Downstream, potential risk for example via recruitment agencies. 
DISCRIMINATION AND HARASSMENT
Unfair or humiliating treatment on the grounds of gender, sexual orientation, race, color, age, 
pregnancy, marital status, religion, political opinion, nationality, ethnic origin, caste, disease or 
disability and harassment (humiliating or corporal punishment or being subject to physical, sexual, 
psychological or verbal harassment or abuse) in the workplace. Ensuring the absence of discrimination and harassment in supplier factories  as well as in our own 
organisation . For example the implementation of our social policies – New global policy on HIV/
AIDS and global grievance mechanism (commitment 3, Focus: Employer of choice).
CHILD LABOUR
Work that deprives children of their childhood, their potential and their dignity, and 
that is harmful to their physical and mental development (UN CRC, CRBP, ILO Conventions).Potential risk upstream and downstream the value chain . Upstream, for example the risk of 
child labour related to raw materials – Better Cotton Initiative (commitment 7, Focus: Investments 
in shared value in our value chain, s. 7.2).
FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION & COLLECTIVE BARGAINING
A person’s right to join, and/or form, organisations of his/her own choosing and to bargain 
collectively (ILO Convention 87, 98, 135, 154).Production and retail markets . We take a collaborative approach to achieve well-functioning 
industrial relations through a global framework agreement with IndustriALL, global partnership with 
the ILO and collaboration with Sida (commitment 2, Focus: Industrial relations). We also have a global 
framework agreement with UNI Global Union (commitment 3, Focus: Employer of choice, s. 3.7).
SOCIAL SECURITY
Everyone’s right to an adequate standard of living for the health and well-being of oneself and of 
one’s family, including food, clothing, housing, medical care and essential social services, and the 
right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age or other 
reasons such as lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond one’s control (Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights Article 25).Mainly an obligation belonging to the responsibility of the state as defined by the UN Guiding Principles, 
but relevant especially in production markets  where lack of legal frameworks or institutional capacity 
sufficiently addressing this issue is common. We take an advocacy approach, for example, in Bangladesh 
– the Accord (commitment 2, Focus: Supply chain management, s. 2.7) as well as addressing it through our 
Sustainability Commitment (commitment 2, Focus: Supply chain management s. 2.1).
LAND RIGHTS
Land ownership disputes. Land grabbing and/or forced/illegal displacement of people. Potential risk to people upstream the value chain  possibly related to the production of raw 
materials used in products, which potentially could influence communities. Important aspect in 
our human rights risk assessments in new and existing markets (commitment 2, Focus: Supply 
chain management and commitment 3, Focus: Human rights management, s. 3.11).
WORKING HOURS
Working hours that comply with national law, the ILO conventions or collective agreement, whichever 
affords the greater protection of the worker. Connected to the workers’ right to health and family life.Production and retail markets . High prevalence of overtime in the textile industry. Monitored 
through our supplier assessment program and linked to, and addressed through, our supply chain 
management strategy and our Fair Living Wage roadmap (commitment 2, Focus: Supply chain 
management).
ACCESS TO WATER
Safe and adequate water supply that is accessible and affordable for personal and domestic use. Communities in both production and retail markets . Addressed through our work with water  
in our water strategy (commitment 6, Focus: Water stewardship).129 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015How we reportINFORMATION
The consultations and input received 
from our stakeholder engagement 
enabled us to determine our salient 
human rights and honed the content. 
The input from our stakeholder con -
sultations have been taken forward 
for next year’s review of our salient 
human rights work. Salient human 
rights are addressed as part of our 
ongoing sustainability program, but 
the process itself and the input from 
stakeholders will inform and further 
sharpen our strategies going forward.CONSULTATION 
WITH EXPERTS 
& GLOBAL 
ORGANISATIONSINTERNAL 
WORKSHOPS
MAPPING 
OF HUMAN RIGHTS
 TOPICS OF GLOBAL 
STAKEHOLDERS
SALIENT
HUMAN RIGHTS
ISSUES
VOICES  
OF AFFECTED  
STAKEHOLDERSLOCAL  
STAKEHOLDER
CONSULTATION
130 OF 130
H&M CONSCIOUS ACTIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015
More information
To find out more about H&M 
Conscious and our policies and 
strategies, read case studies, watch 
videos and much more, please visit 
sustainability.hm.com .
Contact
We appreciate your feedback. 
Please send your questions or 
comments regarding this report 
to kristina.grewin@hm.com
or micaela.kokko@hm.com .Thank you for taking  
the time to learn about  
H&M CONSCIOUSINFORMATION
Get in touch