Title
Home Materiality Contents Introduction ESG Strategy Material Issues
Headlam Group plc ESG Strategy Report 20201
Next Previous
ESG Strategy Report
May 2021Headlam Group plc ESG Strategy Report 2020 2
Previous
 NextContents
3 Introduction from the Chief Executive
4 Headlam Business OverviewIntroduction
Materiality
ESG Strategy
Material Issues5 Materiality Assessment
8 Supply Chain Risk
10 Internal Emissions
11 End-of-life Disposal
13 Health and Safety
15 IT Resilience and Cyber Security
16 Governance6 ESG StrategyHome Materiality Contents Introduction ESG Strategy Material IssuesMateriality Contents Introduction ESG Strategy Material Issues
Headlam Group plc ESG Strategy Report 20203
Home
Previous
 NextIntroduction from the Chief Executive
relevance and resilience in the long-term. Accordingly, this 
foundation document sets out Headlam’s initial focuses and 
broader ambitions in sustainability and ESG.
After consultation with both internal and external stakeholders, 
we have established those ESG issues most material to 
ourselves and our stakeholder partners. Much of this ensuing 
ESG strategy demonstrates the need to work with these 
partners, and to open up dialogue with market participants 
on how to best prepare and position ourselves collectively to 
proactively address the industry’s sustainability issues. 
Whilst this report represents the first time that we have 
formalised our ESG strategy, we already have a wide array 
of responsible practices ongoing within our business, from 
reducing direct emissions and energy usage, to waste 
management and health and safety improvements. I am proud 
of the demonstrable progress that we have already made. 
Nonetheless, meaningful change is not possible without a 
holistic assessment of the current and future situation, and 
deep understanding of potential challenges. 
The floorcoverings industry faces certain technological 
challenges and market dynamics which may have limited its 
overall sustainability progress to-date. The market has global 
participants, a very diverse and highly fragmented customer 
base, and few recycling technologies readily available at 
this time. Furthermore, on the demand-side, purchasers of 
product are not yet clearly signalling a marked preference 
for sustainable products, and these products currently 
represent a small proportion of the overall selection available 
in the marketplace. But to stand still is to fail to recognise 
the macrotrends permeating and altering all industries. 
We anticipate an increasing customer focus on sustainable Steve Wilson
Chief Executiveofferings and sustainable operations. In addition, regulatory 
changes are probable in the medium-term as policymakers 
consider producer responsibilities and end-of-life treatments, 
both of which would have a meaningful impact on our business 
and need to be addressed.
We recognise the importance of sharing where we are as a 
company with the whole industry - sharing our actions and 
commitments as they develop to help support change across 
the wider industry. Some of our ambitions are readily within 
our control and actionable near-term, while others require a 
collaborative approach with our partners to elicit real change. 
As with all our strategic undertakings, we are focused on a 
measured and deliverable plan rather than on distant targets 
not readily realisable. As we learn, collaborate, and develop, so 
too will our ambition and commitments, and near-targets will be 
introduced and re-evaluated yearly within our Reports. 
We have committed to updating on our progress on a bi-
annual basis. Our next update will be in November 2021, and 
subsequent to that alongside our 2021 Annual Report, we will 
be publishing a full-form ESG Report aligned with both the T ask 
Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) and the 
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (‘SASB’) as per the 
Financial Reporting Council’s recommendations. 
Thank you for taking the time to read about our plans.
Headlam’s business model places it as a central participant in 
the floorcoverings industry, connecting manufacturers to trade 
customers, and as a consequence through to end-consumers. 
Creating shared value for all our stakeholders is an essential 
constituent of our past, present and future success, and an 
explicit aim of our commercial strategy. 
Conducting business responsibly, and developing an 
increasingly sophisticated and concerted approach to 
Environmental, Social and Governance (‘ESG’) issues, is not 
only a moral obligation, but a strategic necessity to maintain Home Materiality Contents Introduction ESG Strategy Material Issues
Headlam Group plc ESG Strategy Report 20204
Previous
 NextHeadlam Business Overview
Headlam is Europe’s leading floorcoverings 
distributor , providing the channel between 
suppliers and trade customers.
Headlam works with suppliers across the globe manufacturing 
a diverse range of floorcoverings, including carpet, laminate, 
vinyl and accessory products. Headlam provides suppliers 
with a cost-effective route to market into a highly fragmented 
customer base. Suppliers also benefit from Headlam’s 
extensive marketing, customer data, and insight into trends. 
Headlam’s customer base covers both the residential and 
commercial sectors and is diverse both in profile and size.  
The Company provides its customers with the broadest  
product offering, a ‘just-in-time’ nationwide delivery and 
collection service, e-commerce support, and unrivalled  
product knowledge. 
T o facilitate the most effective and broadest service, Headlam 
operates 66 businesses from 21 distribution hubs and centres 
across the UK and Continental Europe (France, and the 
Netherlands). Each business operates under its own trade 
brand, while being supported by the Company’s extensive 
distribution network and centralised resources.  
* Includin g architects and interior designers who determine the produ cts to be used on a p rojec t 
e.g. direct  
to a local 
authori ty/
insurance 
company/house 
builder Residential 
sectorCommercial 
sector
Customer BaseInde pendent 
retailer
End-consumerFlooring 
contra ctor
Other
 
Corporate
Houseb uilder
DeveloperSpec iﬁer*
End-consumerSpec iﬁer*Larger 
retailer
(incl. online)Floorin g 
contra ctor
End-consumer
Houseb uilder
DeveloperEnd-consumer
Houseb uilder
DeveloperCorporate
Houseb uilder
DeveloperHeadlam Group plc ESG Strategy Report 2020 5
Previous
 NextMateriality Assessment
During 2020 and early 2021, Headlam carried 
out a materiality assessment with the dual aims 
of understanding its key sources of ESG risk and 
opportunity, and to serve as the foundation for its 
ESG strategy. 
Methodology
Research and Refinement 
Using internationally accepted reporting frameworks, including 
the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (‘SASB’) and the 
Global Reporting Initiative (‘GRI’), alongside sector research, 
Headlam identified a comprehensive long-list of ESG issues 
affecting its operations. Issues were then prioritised through an 
ESG risk and opportunity mapping exercise. The extent of risk 
posed to Headlam was scored across three categories: 
 — Reputational - risks associated with company trust,  
and relationships with external stakeholders 
 — Investor - risks associated with investor perceptions of 
long-term viability
 — Operational - risks associated with impacts on regular 
business activities and expenditures 
Each issue was also scored according to their associated 
opportunities available to Headlam. 
Consultation 
A refined list of ESG issues was taken to consultation with 
external stakeholders, including suppliers, customers, and 
investors. In addition to external consultation, internal 
interviews were also conducted with a wide cross-section Imp ortance to HeadlamImpo rtance to external stakeholders
Headlam’s current inﬂuence  over issue:
High Mode rate Low Key ESG issueGovernanc e
IT r esilienc e and 
cyber securit yFair business and c omplianc e
Emissions: lif ecy cle
Suppl y chain riskHealth & saf etyEnd-of -life
disposalEmissions:
internal
Workf orce cult ureProduct pack aging
Labour P ractic es
and human rightsDiversity and equal 
opport unitiesTraining and educationConsumer beha viourEner gy
management
Management of 
chemicals in pr oductsHigh
Low HighThe key material issues considered of the highest importance 
to Headlam and its external stakeholders were identified as:
These topics will form the basis of Headlam’s ESG strategy over 
the medium-term. 
It is expected that ESG issues will not remain static in their 
current degree of materiality. As such, all issues within the 
materiality assessment will continue to be monitored to ensure 
Headlam addresses ESG risk and captures opportunity in 
future years. In particular , Consumer Behaviour is seen as a 
leading indicator of future industry change. Workforce Culture 
is also seen as critical to implementing group-wide sustainable 
practices and behaviours across the business, and is already a 
centrepiece priority for 2021. of Headlam management and employees, including 
representatives from the Company’s established  
Employee Forum. 
In accordance with GRI guidelines, the level of current 
operational control and influence Headlam has over these  
ESG issues was considered to help the Company structure  
its approach. 
Outputs 
Extent of issue materiality was estimated on a basis 
of importance to Headlam and importance to external 
stakeholders, as illustrated on the matrix below which  
was published in the Company’s 2020 Annual Report. Home Materiality Contents Introduction ESG Strategy Material Issues
 — Internal Emissions
 — Governance
 — End-of-Life Disposal 
 — Health and Safety 
 — IT Resilience and Cyber Security 
 — Supply Chain RiskHeadlam Group plc ESG Strategy Report 2020 6
Previous
 NextESG Strategy
Headlam
Working with our people Partners
Working with our partnersIndustry
Engaging the wider industry
Internal Emissions
Health and Safety
Governance
IT Resilience and Cyber SecuritySupply Chain Risk End-of-Life DisposalKey Areas of Focus 
The outputs of Headlam’s materiality assessment allowed the 
Company to structure its overarching ESG strategy and build its 
next steps around the key material issues identified. The key  
material issues are shown below and grouped around three spheres 
of influence: Headlam, its partners, and the industry at large. 
For internally-focused issues, where Headlam has a high degree 
of influence, Headlam will implement actionable initiatives to 
address them, and introduce near-term targets. For Supply Chain Risk and End-of-Life Disposal, where the 
Company has lower direct or operational influence, Headlam 
will use increased data collection, existing and commissioned 
market research, and greater interaction with stakeholders 
to better understand the challenges, and start a dialogue to 
develop actionable initiatives. Home Materiality Contents Introduction ESG Strategy Material Issues
Key Enablers 
In addition to new initiatives addressing the six most material 
issues of focus, the Company will continue to advance its 
standing workstreams across ESG issues. These are outlined 
in the 2020 Annual Report, and encompass improving usage of 
recycled packaging and waste management, as well as actions 
to improve diversity and communication within the business. 
The Company’s progress on these matters will continue to be 
disclosed in its reporting cycle.Overarching Strategy
T o support sustainability in the floorcoverings industry - by engagement and example 
… and to ensure that Headlam is well positioned to take advantage of future market dynamics.Headlam Group plc ESG Strategy Report 2020 7
Previous
 NextESG Roadmap and Actions
FY20 and to-date FY21 FY22— Canvassing and engaging 
stakeholders 
— Materiality assessment 
— Scope 3 analysis with support 
of suppliers 
— First ESG Strategy Report 
published with supporting KPIs— Actioning of near-term targets, 
and setting of longer-term 
targets
— Recanvassing of stakeholders
— ESG Report with comprehensive 
materiality assessment update
— 2022 Annual Report with updated 
TCFD aligned disclosures 
— November 2022 progress update — Bi-annual progress update, 
with November 2021 update
— Recanvassing of stakeholders
— Setting of near-term targets 
for most inﬂuenceable issues
— Improve data collection capacity,
both internally and from suppliers 
— TCFD aligned 2021 Annual Report
— SASB aligned ESG ReportHome Materiality Contents Introduction ESG Strategy Material Issues
Headlam sees two factors as key enablers for delivering on its 
ESG Strategy:
 — A Strong Workforce Culture
Progressing its ‘People and Culture Strategy’ which is a 
driver of effective governance and sustainable practices 
across its operations. T wo key pieces of the strategy are: 
embedding of the Company’s values and behaviours; 
and developing capability in change management by 
implementing ‘Leading through Change’ workshops for 
leaders of the UK distribution hubs and centres in 2021.
 — Insight from Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas (‘GHG’) assessments
Scope 3 emissions are GHG emissions that Headlam is 
indirectly responsible for outside its own operations - 
from the goods the Company purchases to the disposal 
of floorcoverings once sold. Headlam conducted its first 
Scope 3 assessment in early 2021 in conjunction with 
suppliers, which is published within this report. Insights 
from this work, to now be undertaken on an annual basis, 
will be a valuable tool to understand supply chain emissions. 
In addition, the process of data collection will serve as an 
additional framework to engage with suppliers, particularly 
as they increase their own ESG ambitions. Headlam’s ESG roadmap demonstrates the work done thus far , as well as its 
approach to a deliverable plan over the next two years. Headlam Group plc ESG Strategy Report 20208
Supply Chain Risk Health and Safety Internal Emissions End-of-life Disposal IT Resilience and Cyber Security Governance
Home Materiality Contents Introduction ESG Strategy Material Issues
Previous
 NextSupply Chain Risk
Context: 
T o provide customers with the broadest product range available, 
Headlam sources from over 180 suppliers internationally. 
However , more than 80% of products purchased (by cost) are 
encompassed by 30 suppliers, and who Headlam typically has 
long-established relationships with. The vast majority of the 
Company’s suppliers are based in Europe and UK, 57% and  
33% respectively by purchases, 90% in total. 
Strategic Direction: 
Headlam will develop a Supplier Risk Assessment to identify 
areas of concern and inform engagement actions. This process 
will become a key part of Headlam’s actions to eliminate the risk 
of forced labour occurrence and other human rights violations 
within the supply chain. 
The supplier risk assessment system, which builds upon the 
Company’s current activities outlined in its Modern Slavery 
Statement (published on its website), will allow the Company  
to plan, assess, review, and act.Raw materials
natural / oil-based
 
Transportation
Customers: 
Retail and commercial
Downstream 
distribution
End-consumerManufacturing
Upstream 
transportation
 
Processing & SalesHeadlam and the Value Chain
Pillar:
Partners
Level of Current Operational Influence:
Moderate
Ambition:
Work with the right suppliers to promote ESG 
standards, and reduce supply chain risk
Risk:
High-profile supply chain issues are a major 
source of reputational risk; Regulatory 
outcomes, including potential Extended 
Producer Responsibility (‘EPR’) policy, could 
alter or limit suppliers’ product offering, and 
therefore Headlam’s product offering
Opportunity:
Deepen partnership with trusted suppliers 
most able to demonstrate responsible business 
conduct and supply chain efficienciesPlan
Based on Headlam’s own 
materiality assessment, the 
Company will determine key 
issues the supplier risk 
assessment will focus on. Assess
Desk-based research to identify 
suppliers with high risk of negative 
environmental or social impacts. 
Review
The Company will overlay the 
strength of its relationships with 
suppliers against risk extent. Act
Next steps will be based on review 
process, with low-risk monitoring 
through to direct supplier 
engagement. These actions will 
be allied with staﬀ training, and 
physical visits as required, to ensure  
eﬀective implementation.Headlam Group plc ESG Strategy Report 20209
Supply Chain Risk Health and Safety Internal Emissions End-of-life Disposal IT Resilience and Cyber Security Governance
Home Materiality Contents Introduction ESG Strategy Material Issues
Previous
 NextSupply Chain Risk continued
Building on this work, the Company will also begin developing 
a Procurement Charter in 2021. The expectations set out in 
this charter will be developed with input from suppliers, and 
Headlam will continue this collaborative approach to support 
subsequent compliance. 
Finally, the Company will increase engagement with suppliers 
on supply chain efficiencies, for instance production scheduling 
and deliveries, and product-specific tender processes. These 
actions will make both parties more efficient and sustainable in 
their operations, and have the added benefit of consolidating 
the overall number of Stock Keeping Units (‘SKUs’) carried by 
the Company without affecting the customer offering. The 
Company will also provide insights on sustainable consumer 
trends to suppliers, and promote suppliers’ sustainable  
product offering. 
Key Enabler: Scope 3 GHG Assessment 
Headlam carried out its first Scope 3 assessment in 2021 
following the GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 
3) Accounting Standard methodology. The objective of this 
assessment was to understand where the greatest GHG 
emissions are produced outside of Headlam’s own operations 
(Scope 1 and 2), and to provide insight on supply chain risk 
from an emissions perspective. Scope 3 emissions are 
often much greater than a company’s direct (Scope 1 and 2) 
emissions. Therefore, with the right collaboration and support, 
opportunities for reductions can be significant.
Given this was Headlam’s first Scope 3 assessment with its 
suppliers, the process was considered equally as important as 
the final outputs. The assessment focused on scoping which 
sections of the value chain were of greatest relevance in terms 
of impact, and determining data availability in the supply chain. The result of the assessment shows the most material value 
chain impacts:
*Waste generated in operations, employee commuting, capital goods, and fuel-
related activities not included in Scope 1 and 2Scope 3 emissions:
Headlam’s Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions:KPIs
Risk assessment
 — Development of a risk assessment system for 
Headlam’s suppliers 
 — Number of suppliers run through assessment stage, 
review stage, and act stage 
Procurement charter
 — Development of a procurement charter
 — % of suppliers signed up to charter
Partnership approach
 — % decrease in SKUsManufacture 
of purchased 
goods and 
services: 
71.31% End-of-life 
sold products:  
22.48%  
Upstream
transport:
3.61%  
Scope 3: 97.47%  Other:*
2.6% 
Scope 2: 0.28%  Scope 1: 2.25%  Manufacture 
of purchased 
goods and 
services: 
71.31% End-of-life 
sold products:  
22.48%  
Upstream
transport:
3.61%  
Scope 3: 97.47%  Other:*
2.6% 
Scope 2: 0.28%  Scope 1: 2.25%  By increasing engagement across the value chain and indicating 
to suppliers what future data the Company will be seeking 
and why, this process has laid the foundations for improved 
future inputs. This will make Scope 3 an increasingly useful tool 
for prioritising Headlam’s actions to reduce risk and support 
positive change within the supply chain.
Key
Scope 1 Direct GHG emissions, predominantly arising from Headlam’s 
transportation activities
Scope 2 GHG emissions generated from purchased electricity at 
Headlam’s sites
Scope 3 Indirect GHG emissions produced outside Headlam’s own 
operationsHeadlam Group plc ESG Strategy Report 202010
Supply Chain Risk Health and Safety Internal Emissions End-of-life Disposal IT Resilience and Cyber Security Governance
Home Materiality Contents Introduction ESG Strategy Material Issues
Previous
 NextInternal Emissions
transport activities (both commercial and non-commercial fleet), with 
the remainder owing to natural gas usage at various sites. As such, the 
majority of the Company’s emissions reduction work over the last few 
years has focused on optimising its commercial fleet, otherwise known 
as the T ransport Integration Project. 
The Company’s Scope 2 GHG emissions arise mostly through electricity 
consumption at sites. The Company will target a reduction in energy 
usage through investment in its property estate, upgrading sites with 
more efficient technologies and equipment, and promoting energy 
saving actions and behaviours across all sites. 
Case Study:
T ransport Integration Project
The Company commenced T ransport Integration trials in 2018, 
and with trials successfully completed commenced the roll-out 
of the project. By the end of 2020 it had been implemented 
across approximately 25% of the Company’s UK deliveries. The 
project has resulted in increased deliveries per vehicle, a reduced 
number of vehicles needed to serve local areas, and a meaningful 
reduction in fuel consumption and CO2 emissions.
For example, the implementation of the project in Headlam’s 
‘North’ operating region resulted in 15 out of 45 vehicles being 
taken off the road, and an increase from 12 deliveries on average 
per vehicle to 16, improving efficiency by 33%. 
Full national roll-out of the project is scheduled to be complete 
by end of 2021 / early 2022, with updates being provided on how its 
implementation has reduced vehicle numbers and fuel consumption.
Strategic Direction: 
The Company will take a four-pronged approach to reducing its Scope 1 
and 2 GHG emissions. 1. The Company will complete the roll-out of its T ransport Integration 
Project and report on the benefits arising. Once rolled-out, the 
Company will endeavour to reduce commercial fleet emissions 
further , for instance through dashboard training to review good 
driver behaviour and ensure continued improvements. 
2. The Company will consider viable options to make its non-
commercial fleet more sustainable. It will improve the availability of 
hybrid and low emissions vehicles over the near/medium-term, and 
is currently rolling out electric vehicle (‘EV’) charging points across 
its existing property estate.
3. The Company will progress key recommendations from the 
Energy Saving Opportunities Scheme (‘ESOS’) Phase 2 report. 
Recommendations include promoting energy saving actions 
across the group such as encouraging employee behaviour-change 
regarding energy use, and further implementing more  
efficient lighting. 
4. The Company will continue to focus on more efficient and relevant 
customer ordering and delivery services. This includes increased 
promotion and usage of the improved B2B websites relaunched 
in 2020, and increased capacity for customers to collect orders 
from the trade counter network in nearby locations. Physical visits 
needed to be made to customers by sales representatives will likely 
reduce in frequency, thereby further reducing emissions per order .Pillar:
Headlam
Level of Current Operational Influence:
Moderate
Ambition:
T o reduce Headlam’s Scope 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions
Risk:
Negative pressure from emissions-focused 
investors and ratings agencies; reduced 
stakeholder support; ESG-related increases in 
cost of capital
Opportunity:
Strengthening relationships with environmental 
focused stakeholders; reducing cost or 
mitigating cost increases; and reducing air 
pollution in communities 
Context: 
One of the Company’s commitments is to reduce its contribution 
to GHG emissions and climate change. Approximately 90% of the 
Company’s (Scope 1) GHG emissions arise from fuel sources used in its KPIs
 — Aggregated fuel-use spend per £ of revenue 
(T ransportation (Scope 1) emissions per £ of revenue)
 — % of hybrid and low emissions vehicles in non-
commercial fleet 
 — % of orders placed onlineHeadlam Group plc ESG Strategy Report 202011
Supply Chain Risk Health and Safety Internal Emissions End-of-life Disposal IT Resilience and Cyber Security Governance
Home Materiality Contents Introduction ESG Strategy Material Issues
Previous
 NextEnd-of-life Disposal
Pillar:
Industry
Level of Current Operational Influence:
Low
Ambition:
T o support and encourage industry dialogue 
and engagement around circular products and 
business models
Risk:
Regulatory and potential EPR-related risks  
to operating models and margins across  
the industry 
Opportunity:
Position Headlam and its brands to capture 
future market share in circular and sustainable 
products; better inventory management and 
reduction in SKUs/waste; develop new end-of-
life business models Context: 
The end-of-life disposal of floorcovering products is one of the 
most significant long-term sustainability challenges facing the 
industry, with both technical and market-dynamic obstacles  
to overcome.
Regarding the technical aspect, Headlam distributes a wide 
range of product categories including carpet tile, tufted 
carpet, vinyl and laminate. These products are made up of 
several layered materials, from yarn and latex in tufted carpet, 
to paper , resin and wood in laminate, with plastic used in the 
manufacturing processes of many products. These materials 
must be separated at end-of-life in order to be recycled, 
with each layer requiring a different solution. The difficulty 
of separating the respective layers, and the currently limited 
recycling processes, leads to limited or no viable recycling 
solutions. Consequently, the majority of end-of-life products 
are currently sent to landfill. 
In addition to the technical challenge, the market is yet to assign 
a premium to recyclable products. Given the significant capital 
outlays required by manufacturers to develop new products 
that can be recycled, and the absence of plausible structures to 
collect and recycle the flooring at the end of its life, the business 
case for sustainable products is currently limited. 
While the industry has seen several innovators progress 
solutions in niche sections of the market, there has been little 
implementation at scale in relation to recyclable products or 
processes. T akeback schemes currently exist for some vinyl 
products, for instance Recofloor , which is supported at the 
majority of Headlam’s larger sites. Headlam expects to see change over the medium-term 
driven by two factors. The first is the steady, but growing 
interest in sustainable flooring options. This is currently more 
visible amongst commercial customers, who are themselves 
responding to sustainability standards. We expect this trend to 
increase, and spread into the residential sector , as expectations 
of product sustainability and recyclability become more 
normalised. 
In addition, regulation is likely to change the way the flooring 
industry operates in the UK. Policy schemes such as Extended 
Producer Responsibility (‘EPR’) oblige manufacturers to bear 
a financial cost relating to the recovery and recycling of their 
product at the end of its life. The implementation of an EPR 
could have significant implications for the profitability of certain 
products based on their recyclability. 
Strategic Direction: 
Given its interface with both customers and suppliers, Headlam 
is well-positioned to support and develop industry change, 
through i) actions with customers, and ii) collaborative actions 
with industry participants.
Customer-facing actions: 
 — Increase awareness of sustainable products 
 — Increase awareness of industry bodies, and  
recycling options Headlam Group plc ESG Strategy Report 202012
Supply Chain Risk Health and Safety Internal Emissions End-of-life Disposal IT Resilience and Cyber Security Governance
Home Materiality Contents Introduction ESG Strategy Material Issues
Previous
 NextEnd-of-life Disposal continued
Collaborative actions: 
 — Market research to determine the most effective next steps 
for the industry 
 — Convene working group - leverage contacts with industry 
bodies, customers, and suppliers 
 — Partner with relevant solution providers 
Headlam will begin with a scoping and market research exercise 
with input from the industry to better understand the issues. 
This will inform the areas in which the Company can have the 
greatest impact.
Internal Actions:
By buying more efficiently, Headlam will reduce stock remnants 
and ensure that any such stock is diverted away from landfill. 
Additionally, the Company will increase the percentage of 
recycled product packaging it uses, and assess other / more 
sustainable packaging alternatives. 
KPIs
 — Engagement with industry bodies 
 — £ spend on industry research and supporting industry 
bodies 
 — Waste per annum, including amount of stock disposed 
of as remnant Headlam Group plc ESG Strategy Report 202013
Supply Chain Risk Health and Safety Internal Emissions End-of-life Disposal IT Resilience and Cyber Security Governance
Home Materiality Contents Introduction ESG Strategy Material Issues
Previous
 NextHealth and Safety
Pillar:
Headlam
Level of Current Operational Influence:
High 
Ambition:
Best practice low accident rates, and leading 
occupational health 
Risk:
Health risk to employees; potential reputational 
risk 
Opportunity:
Safeguard employees, and highly-rated as an 
employerContext: 
In 2019, Headlam commissioned a specialist third-party to 
review the Health and Safety (‘H&S’) management and culture 
of the Company. In-line with their assessment, which noted the 
considerable progress made over the previous two years, the 
Company has refined its H&S Policy and developed a new H&S 
Strategy being implemented from 2021 to inform Headlam’s 
direction of travel. 
Since 2017, the Company has undertaken a complete 
overhaul of H&S management systems and documentation. 
The Company introduced an in-house H&S team in 2018 
which helped to improve oversight of issues. Following initial 
certification in 2019, Headlam was pleased to be re-accredited 
ISO 45001 in 2020, the international standard for occupational 
health and safety management. 
Furthermore, the Company has moved from a largely paper-
based system to an intranet-based system making information 
more accessible to employees. The Company has produced 
over 200 safe systems of work for common tasks, and a wide 
range of tool box talks for employee training on specific tasks. 
These tool box talks help the Company share best practice 
with the group, and communicate learnings to prevent 
reoccurrences.
Strategic Direction: 
Headlam’s new H&S Strategy focuses on standards both from 
a physical and cultural point of view. The strategy contributes 
to the Company’s move from a “calculative” H&S approach, 
with systems in place to manage all hazards, to a “proactive” 
one, using safety leadership and Company values to drive continuous improvement. The H&S strategy aims to ensure 
that high standards of H&S management are achieved, and that 
monitoring information is then used to give the Board and wider 
stakeholder groups assurance of this. 
The Company has already made good progress in implementing 
recommendations from its third-party review, including:
 — Pedestrian and Mechanical separation - further clearly 
marked dedicated walkways, setting apart vehicle and 
pedestrian routes, established at the Company’s four 
largest sites, with roll-out to other sites during 2021.
 — Machine Guarding and Racking - improved machine 
guarding and interlocking systems to reduce the risk  
of injury installed at two sites, with ongoing roll-out.
 — Culture and T raining - H&S increasingly used as a 
performance measure with employees over the next 24 
months, all staff training carried out every three years with 
all safe systems of work reviewed as part of the process 
to ensure the information stays relevant. T raining to be 
undertaken in the areas of mental health first-aiders and 
hazard area classification in 2021, Executive Team and Site 
Directors to attend and pass an Institution of Occupational 
Safety and Health (IOSH) approved Safety for Executives 
and Directors programme with refreshers every three years.
 — Planned Preventive Maintenance (‘PPM’) - a more structured 
PPM approach being rolled-out across the group as a pre-
emptive measure against any failings or failures.
 — Audits - UK distribution centres audited by the Compliance 
Director and National Health and Safety Manager twice a 
year , and all trade counter sites to be audited at least once 
in 2021.Headlam Group plc ESG Strategy Report 202014
Supply Chain Risk Health and Safety Internal Emissions End-of-life Disposal IT Resilience and Cyber Security Governance
Home Materiality Contents Introduction ESG Strategy Material Issues
Previous
 NextHealth and Safety continued
Case Study: 
Promoting Mental Health: 
The Company’s new H&S Strategy includes the objective 
of promoting mental health using a prominent agenda. 
This means that mental health will be included on the 
agenda of each onsite H&S committee meeting, with 
an occupational stress assessment undertaken at 
each operating location and Head Office. Currently, the 
Company is undertaking wellbeing trials in four operating 
locations to inform strategy, with pulse checks planned 
12 and 24 months after the introduction to assess 
progress. This mental health agenda will also ensure that 
all main operating locations will have at least two mental 
health first-aiders trained and appointed by 2022. 
KPIs
 — Number of incidents (‘RIDDORs’)
 — Number of road traffic accidents
 — Number of mental health first-aidersHeadlam Group plc ESG Strategy Report 202015
Supply Chain Risk Health and Safety Internal Emissions End-of-life Disposal IT Resilience and Cyber Security Governance
Home Materiality Contents Introduction ESG Strategy Material Issues
Previous
 NextIT Resilience and Cyber Security
Pillar:
Headlam
Level of Current Operational Influence:
High
Ambition:
Robust cyber-security protocols; deepen 
business intelligence (‘BI’) for operational gains; 
relevant IT platform for capturing customer 
opportunity
Risk:
Disruption to operations; lack of credibility and 
experience in delivering new BI solutions and 
products
Opportunity:
Remaining relevant and responsive to customer 
demands; improved customer service and 
support; ability to capture market shareContext: 
IT Resilience and Cyber Security was identified as one of the 
Board’s areas of focus for 2021. 
As part of its Operational Improvement Programme, the 
Company is focused on the ongoing enhancement of 
e-commerce capabilities to better support customers and 
capture increased revenue growth opportunities.
2020 saw the relaunch of Headlam’s B2B websites; improving 
functionality and making it easier for customers to place and 
track orders. The Company has seen a material increase in 
the usage of the B2B websites and number of orders being 
placed online. 2020 also saw the implementation of cyber 
threat and network monitoring reporting, utilising cloud hosted 
infrastructure for the first time.
The Company experienced a cyber security incident in 
November 2020. The attack was detected by previously 
implemented remote monitoring. In response, an independent 
security assessment of IT systems was carried out and the 
Company immediately began implementing the resulting 
recommendations to reduce the possibility of an incident 
occurring again. The Company has introduced a safeguarding 
service for incoming emails, and a Managed Detection and 
Response (‘MDR’) solution to enhance network monitoring for 
suspicious activity. 
Strategic Direction: 
Regarding Headlam’s ambition to be an increasingly relevant 
platform for supporting customers, and responsive to their 
future demands and digital needs, the Company will focus on *Electronic Data Interchange (‘EDI’)implementing digital enhancements to customer offers across 
the different customer groups. This will include automated 
product and EDI* ordering links for larger customers, and 
further improvements to the B2B websites including product 
visualisation and search characteristics.
In terms of cyber security, the Company will implement all of 
the technical recommendations from the independent security 
assessment and increase the frequency of penetration testing 
to annual. The Company also aims to improve employees’ 
ability to identify and reduce cyber security risks. Headlam’s 
in-house IT team will continue to produce quarterly internal 
communications to enhance risk awareness alongside monthly 
on-line cyber training for employees using a third-party platform.
KPIs
 — Number of reportable cyber incidents
 — % of orders / revenue received online via B2B websites 
 — Revenue via EDI customers as % of total revenueHeadlam Group plc ESG Strategy Report 202016
Supply Chain Risk Health and Safety Internal Emissions End-of-life Disposal IT Resilience and Cyber Security Governance
Home Materiality Contents Introduction ESG Strategy Material Issues
Previous
 NextGovernance
Pillar:
Headlam 
Level of Current Operational Influence:
High 
Ambition:
Strong governance and oversight at group-level, 
and effective structures for communicating 
strategy and sustainability throughout  
the business 
Risks:
Considered less of an investment proposition 
by investors and rating / proxy agencies, and 
effectiveness of strategy implementation
Opportunity:
Strong investment proposition, with clear 
communication of progress and targetsContext: 
The Board is committed to developing the Company’s ESG 
strategy and performance. As such it has primary oversight, 
with ESG issues forming standing item(s) at Board Meetings. 
The Non-Executive Chairman is the Non-Executive Director 
accountable for overseeing ESG Strategy. The Company is also 
supported by two specialist consultancies in relation to its ESG 
activities, both of which work alongside the Executive Team on 
a day-to-day basis. 
Strategic Direction: 
T o action the continuous improvement of governance 
processes, Headlam will advance three main areas: 
 — The Board: 
Headlam is focused on enhancing and bringing further 
skills on to the Board to support increased oversight of 
the Company’s strategic and corporate aims, including in 
the area of ESG, and measurement of progress. T wo new 
Non-Executive Directors are intended to be appointed 
during 2021, which will additionally increase the overall 
independence of the Board. 
 — Continued development of risk management framework 
and oversight:
The Board has overall responsibility for the Company’s 
system of internal control and risk management, and for 
reviewing its effectiveness, and is supported in this regard 
by the Audit Committee. The Company has an Executive 
Risk Committee which meets quarterly and reports 
directly to the Audit Committee after each meeting, who 
in turn review the detailed risk register as part of its risk management responsibilities. During 2021, the Company 
has committed to further developing the conversation 
about emerging and principal risks. The risk register will be 
reviewed and developed against the material ESG issues. 
Additionally, ESG Strategy now also forms part of the 
Company’s Operational Improvement Programme as a 
standalone project, ensuring accountability at all levels
 — Whistleblowing: 
Headlam has a formal whistleblowing policy that is reviewed 
each year , and allows employees to raise concerns about 
improprieties on an anonymous basis with associated legal 
protections. Should employees feel unable to raise concerns 
with management, under the policy they may raise their 
concern directly with the Chair of the Audit Committee. 
Headlam will continue to drive awareness of this  
policy through internal communication and on-line  
compliance training. 
Stakeholder Engagement:
The Company will again engage with stakeholder groups, both 
internal and external, regarding its progress on ESG matters 
towards the end of 2021, and use the resulting feedback to 
further inform its actions and next ESG Report.Title
Home Materiality Contents Introduction ESG Strategy Material Issues
Headlam Group plc ESG Strategy Report 202017
Next Previous
Headlam Group plc
PO Box 1
Gorsey Lane
Colehill
Birmingham
B46 1LW
UK
T el: 01675 433 000
Fax: 01675 433 030
Email: headlamgroup@headlam.com
Sat Nav: B46 1JU
www.headlam.com
Company number: 00460129