www.headlam.comHEADLAM GROUP PLC  ESG REPORT 2022
ESG  STRA TEGY  
commitment to develop ing
EUROPE’S LEADING FLOORCOVERINGS DISTRIBUTORTANG I BLE  PROGRESS  
being made
This detailed Environmental, Social and 
Governance (‘ESG’) Report builds on the 
Company’s initial report published in May 2021, 
with tangible progress having been made since 
that time. The ESG strategy supports the long-
term sustainability of the business with the Board 
committed to progressing its development, and 
will establish a new ESG Committee in 2022 to 
support this.
Addressing the environmental challenge is much 
broader than reducing carbon emissions and will 
require close collaboration across the industry. 
The transition to a circular economy is a longer 
term challenge for the floorcoverings industry 
as there are both technical and market dynamic 
obstacles to overcome, with the Company 
prepared to work with partners to lead change.  
As a basis for its long term ambitions, the 
Company now has a net zero emissions ambition 
for 2035, with detailed planning to commence  
and details of a costed transition plan to be 
provided within the ESG Report in next year’s  
2022 Annual Report.
Additionally, the Board believes that business 
has a positive role to play in society, and has now 
embarked on a programme to support a more 
diverse workforce and the benefits that brings  
to the Company, as well as launching a locally 
focused community programme.Philip Lawrence  Non-Executive Chairman | March 2022CHAIRMAN’S FOREWORDContents Generation – Section
Headlam Group PLC  ESG Report 2022 1ESG REPORT 
Introduction
Headlam published its first ESG Strategy Report in 2021, which outlined 
the Company’s initial sustainability ambitions. The following is the 
Company’s first full-form ESG Report. 
Through collaboration with its people and external stakeholders, the 
Company has identified three core focuses under its ESG strategy:
• Reduce the Company’s contribution to greenhouse gas (‘GHG’) 
emissions and climate change; 
• Become a more sustainable business, including through cultural 
development and by increasing oversight of ESG related risks and 
opportunities; and 
• Increase the sustainability of the overall floorcoverings industry 
through engagement and example, and support the future transition 
to a circular economy. 
Outlined on pages 4 to 8 are the Company’s actions to-date to address 
these focuses, with metrics, indicators, and targets provided to enable 
measurement of progress. The Company is committed to providing an 
update on its ESG actions and future considerations on a bi-annual basis, 
with a full-form report being published alongside Annual Report and 
Accounts. Foundational to the initiation and development of the Company’s ESG 
strategy was the Materiality Assessment which was first published in 
March 2021, and has been reviewed and updated for this Report (see 
page 3). It has identified the Company’s most material sources of ESG 
risk and opportunity (‘material issues’), and provided the platform for 
the Company to develop action plans against the issues and establish 
indicators to measure progress. Detail on the key material issues, and 
the current main actions and future considerations in relation to each, 
are given on pages 4 to 6 of this Report. Of the six key material issues, 
the Company is considered to have a high influence and / or operational 
control over three. During 2021, multiple actions were focused on these 
‘high influence’ issues alongside the progression of important scoping 
work on the other three issues where a collaborative approach with other 
industry participants is required to effect change (namely ‘End-of-life 
disposal’, ‘Supply chain risk’, and to a lesser degree ‘Emissions: internal’). 
Much has been done in the area of protecting and supporting the 
Company’s people, covering the broad spectrum of health and safety, 
cultural development, engagement, training, and rewards and benefits. 
Details are given on page 7, with diversity, equity and inclusion (‘DEI’) to be 
an area of prominent focus in 2022.
Governance and Net Zero Ambition 
As detailed in the Company’s first TCFD1 disclosure on pages 9 to 12, the 
Board has primary oversight and ultimate responsibility for delivery of 
the ESG strategy. Reflecting its importance, ESG is considered quarterly 
by the Board and during 2022 the Company is additionally proposing to 
establish an ESG Committee to assist with the more detailed aspects of 
its ESG agenda. 
Aligned with the commitment to developing the ESG strategy, the Board 
is pleased to announce a net zero emissions2 ambition for 2035, a major 
milestone for the Company. In support of this, during 2022 the Company 
will be undertaking associated transition planning work and next year’s 
full-form ESG Report will provide some detail on a costed transition 
plan. Interim targets will also be expanded upon within the Company’s 
bi-annual updates.
1 Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
2 Scope 1 and Scope 2
Headlam Group PLC  ESG Report 2022 2ESG REPORT 
Positioning
Unchanged
Changed
New
Headlam’s current 
influence over issue
High
Moderate
Low
Key issue
Importance to external stakeholdersHigh
High Low
Importance to HeadlamFair business  
and complicance
Emissions: lifecycleGovernance
Emissions: internal
End-of-life disposal
Health and safetySupply 
chain risk Consumer behaviour
Labour practices and human rightsIT resilience  
and cyber 
security
Energy management
Local communitiesProduct 
packaging
Management of 
chemicals in products T raining and education
Diverse and equal opportunitiesWorkforce culture
Materiality Assessment and Key Material Issues 
The Materiality Assessment below follows accepted reporting 
frameworks including Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (‘SASB’) 
and the Global Reporting Initiative (‘GRI’). Changes to that published in 
2021 are shown, with changes to the positioning of an issue reflecting 
a composite of likelihood and potential impact of ‘raw’ ESG risk (i.e. not 
considering risk mitigation actions undertaken by the Company during 
the last twelve months). The key material issues previously identified 
have not changed, and remain: 
1. Emissions: internal 
2. Health and safety 
3. End-of-life disposal 
4. Supply chain risk 
5. Governance 
6. IT resilience and cyber security One new issue of ‘Local communities’ has been added, although not 
ranked amongst the key material issues. The addition reflects both its 
importance and the Company’s intention to increase its actions in this 
area with a locally focused community programme to be implemented 
in 2022 which will build on the current Charitable Donations Policy which 
supports locally focused charitable giving and involvement (see page 8). 
All of the issues identified by the Materiality Assessment continue to be 
monitored, and subject to various actions as appropriate as part of the 
overall ESG strategy, with some of them described later in this Report. 
Headlam Group PLC  ESG Report 2022 3Key Material Issues – Actions to Address
1. Emissions: internal
GHG emissions from transportation activities (commercial and non-commercial fleet), and natural gas usage and electricity consumption 
at sites
Main actions • T ransport Integration project resulting in more efficient delivery fleet (commercial vehicle) utilisation, and associated 
reduction in fleet number 
• Increasing the availability of plug-in hybrid and low emission vehicles across non-commercial fleet 
• Promotion of energy saving actions (‘good energy behaviours’) across the group 
• Auditing of sites, and upgrading of sites with more energy efficient technologies and equipment 
• Promotion of less carbon intensive ordering and delivery options (i.e. online ordering, trade counter network)
A full list of the Company’s actions in relation to reducing its internal emissions are given within its publicly available 
Environmental Policy (www.headlam.com).
Measurement 
of progress• T ransportation (Scope 1) emissions1 per £ of revenue  (tCO2e)
 p  2021: 33; 2020: 29; 2019: – 
• Deliveries per commercial vehicle (see page 33 of the 2021 Annual Report and Accounts) 
• T arget of 50% of non-commercial fleet plug-in hybrid or low emission by end of 2022 (2021: 13.5%)
Future 
considerations• Initial reduction target for internal emissions 
• Net zero emissions ambition for 2035, with associated transition planning work
• No viable options currently to move commercial fleet to electric powered vehicles, but will continue to actively monitor the 
situation
2. Health and safety
Safety and protection of its people, customers and necessary visitors to site. Best practice low accident rates, and leading occupational 
health 
Main actions • Implementing the recommendations arising from a commissioned independent audit 
• Enhancing cultural awareness, including through the dedicated health and safety team, training and regular audits 
• ISO 45001 audits undertaken across all the UK’s main sites as part of the Company’s ongoing certification 
• Removal from sale of certain hazard products
• Progressing of work towards achieving ISO 14001 environmental accreditation 
The Company’s risk mitigation actions in relation to health and safety are given within Principal Risks and Uncertainties on 
page 36 of the 2021 Annual Report and Accounts. 
Measurement 
of progress• Number of incidents (‘RIDDORs’) (see page 33 of the 2021 Annual Report and Accounts) 
• Number of road traffic accidents (‘RT As’) where ‘at fault’
 p  2021: 201; 2020: 197; 2019: 122 2
• T arget of achieving ISO 14001 environmental accreditation by Q1 2023
Future 
considerations• Increasing number of mental health first-aiders at all main sites
• Development of internal management performance measures 
1Defined as emissions from the Company’s UK distribution commercial vehicles. Scope 1 emissions published for the first time in 2020.
2From May 2019 when accident management was introduced.Positioning
Unchanged
ChangedHeadlam’s current influence over issue
High
ModerateLow
Key ESG issue
Headlam Group PLC  ESG Report 2022 4ESG REPORT 3. End-of-life disposal  
Support the promotion of sustainable products, with associated reduction in industry waste. Through engagement and example, increase 
the sustainability of overall industry, and support future transition to a circular economy 
Main actions • Working with suppliers to promote more sustainable products into the industry, and increase awareness by the 
end consumer
• Supporting and engaging with industry bodies and suppliers focused on the recyclability / recycling of floorcovering 
products, and reduction of floorcovering waste to landfill (including membership of Carpet Recycling UK and Recoflor) 
• Bi-annual customer survey to better understand sustainability requirements and preferences
• Using recycled plastic packaging for product across operations (i.e. all locations using regranulated polythene packaging 
manufactured from 100% recycled polythene)
• Reusing of other product protective packaging (cardboard poles and wooden pallets) 
A full list of the Company’s actions in relation to reducing its waste, and supporting increased sustainability in the 
floorcoverings industry, are given within its publicly available Environmental Policy (www.headlam.com) 
Measurement 
of progress• Recycled protective plastic packaging (see page 33 of the 2021 Annual Report and Accounts) 
• Launch of sustainable ‘Wool Britannia’ product range, with further sustainable product launches in 2022 
Future 
considerations• Review of office waste management options across the group 
• Enlarged sustainable product offering, and education of sales teams 
• Following advances and identification of viable solutions, investment to support recycling technologies and infrastructure 
(including in relation to EPR1 scheme, see TCFD on pages 9 to 12) 
4. Supply chain risk
Ensuring supply chains are free from modern slavery and human trafficking. Engaging on industry issues (including changes in regulation 
and sustainability). Capturing opportunity through strategic partnerships and improving supply chain efficiencies
Main actions • Engagement programme with suppliers on industry sustainability issues, including changes to regulation and potential 
sustainability partnerships 
• Supply Chain Risk Assessment being conducted by an independent party 
• Working closely with suppliers to mitigate the industry wide supply issues evident in 2021 and 2022 (as of the date of this 
Report) 
• Improved inventory management 
• Increasing supply chain efficiencies, including through joint business plans, buying and deliveries 
The Company’s risk mitigation actions in relation to supply chain are given within Principal Risks and Uncertainties on page 36 
of the 2021 Annual Report and Accounts. 
Measurement 
of progress• T arget of the top 50 suppliers2 assessed under the independent Supply Chain Risk Assessment by end of 2022
• Inventory turn (see page 33 of the 2021 Annual Report and Accounts) 
Future 
considerations• Implementation of a Supplier Sustainability Procurement Charter (includes defining a common set of minimum standards 
and principles)
• Updated Scope 3 assessment (includes engagement with suppliers on their Scope 1 and 2 emissions, sustainability actions, 
and ambitions) 
1Extended Producer Responsibility
2By purchases, and accounting for approximately 80% of the Company’s spend with suppliers
Headlam Group PLC  ESG Report 2022 55. Governance
Strong governance and oversight, with effective structures for communicating throughout the business. Robust processes in place to both 
limit any potential risks to the business and operate as effectively as possible. Openness and transparency in all dealings and communications
Main actions • Continued focus on, and improvements to, risk management and internal control
• Increased evaluation and oversight of governance, strategic and corporate objectives though new Non-Executive Director 
appointments 
• Multiple actions focused on all the identified key material issues (as detailed in this Report) 
• Increased oversight and development of ESG strategy, with timetables articulated on certain disclosures (see TCFD on 
pages 9 to 12) 
• Third-party expert appointed to conduct a full diversity review, including a Board debate, and subsequent engagement with 
internal stakeholders 
• Shareholder engagement on areas including remuneration and capital allocation 
A full list of the Company’s actions in relation to corporate governance are given within Corporate Governance and the 
Committee Reports on pages 62 to 120 of the 2021 Annual Report and Accounts.
Measurement 
of progress• ESG Committee being established in 2022 to assist the Board with the implementation of ESG strategy 
• Delivery on stated strategic and corporate objectives 
Future 
considerations• Emission targets and commitments, and climate-related scenarios under TCFD 
• Introduction of ESG metrics into Executive Directors flexible remuneration 
• Improve diversity at Board level and devise a Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (‘DEI’) strategy for the wider business
6. IT resilience and cyber security
Robust and flexible infrastructure to ensure protection whilst also providing operational gains. Digital enhancements and enablers to capture 
customer opportunity
Main actions • Independent security assessments, with recommendations completed 
• Increased Board and Committee briefings and / or oversight 
• New online employee training, including increasing the ability to identify and reduce cyber security risks, +1,300 individual 
courses completed through online portal since launch in April 2021 (to March 2022, the date of this Report)
• Relaunched B2B websites, with improved functionality 
• Launch of new industry-leading app (myheadlam) 
The Company’s risk mitigation actions in relation to IT resilience and cyber security are given within Principal Risks and 
Uncertainties on page 36 of the 2021 Annual Report and Accounts. 
Measurement 
of progress• Percentage of orders placed online, with target of 30% for digital channels (B2B websites and app) 
 p 2021: 22%; 2020: 19%; 2019: 11% 
• Number of reportable cyber incidents 
 p 2021: 0; 2020: 1; 2019: 0 
Future 
considerations• New functionality added to digital products
• Further digital support and enablers, including Order Management System (‘OMS’) Positioning
Unchanged
ChangedHeadlam’s current influence over issue
High
ModerateLow
Key ESG issue
Headlam Group PLC  ESG Report 2022 6ESG REPORT People
The Company is focused on improving the support to its people, 
including through cultural development, engagement, and review of 
rewards and benefits. During 2021, investment was made in internal 
communications, training and workshops. ‘Values and Behaviours’ 
and ‘Leading through Change’ workshops were rolled out across the 
group, as well as conferences and training held on projects forming part 
of the Company’s strategy. These workshops and new performance 
management training will continue throughout 2022, with a target of all 
line managers having received training by end of Q1 2022.
Importance was placed on utilising and promoting the ‘MyHub’ 
engagement portal that was launched in 2021, and considering all the 
feedback available to the Company including from the established 
Employee Forum which acts as the formal workforce advisory panel 
to the Board and met five times in 2021. More detail on the Employee 
Forum is given on page 68 of the 2021 Annual Report and Accounts.
Throughout 2022, several changes and improvements to rewards and 
benefits for the Company’s people will be implemented, including: 
• Moving to one pension for all employees (Master T rust Pension, 
effective 1 April 2022), providing a more generous and flexible 
contribution structure, and creating consistency and fairness across 
the group;
• Introduced a common approach to bonus provisions1 for senior 
management and sales leadership roles, driving a more collaborative 
and ‘group success’ approach;
• Enhanced and harmonised holiday entitlement;
• Equal sick pay for all colleagues; and
• Cost of living pay increase for all employees (effective 1 January 2022).
Alongside the rewards and benefits above, the Company continues 
to provide death in service benefits through the Headlam Group Life 
Assurance scheme, a HM Revenue & Customs approved Save-As-
You-Earn Sharesave scheme (‘SAYE’), and an Employee Assistance 
Programme which includes mental health support. The Company will 
also review National Living Wage (‘NLW’) in line with the 2022 rise, and 
anticipates it will only be necessary to increase a very small number of its 
peoples’ base pay.A key focus for 2022 is developing a DEI strategy, as detailed in the 
Nomination Committee Report on page 79 of the 2021 Annual 
Report and Accounts. In order to increase diversity the Committee has 
appointed a third-party expert to conduct a comprehensive baseline 
review across the Company during the first half of 2022. Outcomes of 
this review will be discussed by the Board, and a strategy put in place to 
address areas where improvement is needed. The below table shows the 
gender diversity of the Company as at 31 December 2021:
T able showing gender diversity:
EmployeesExecutive 
DirectorsExecutive 
T eam Managers Other T otal
Male 1 1 249 1,499 1,750
Female 0 3 61 425 489
Number of 
employees at  
31 December 2021 1 4 310 1,924 2,239
Gender Pay Gap Report 
In line with the UK Government’s regulations which introduced gender 
pay gap reporting, the Company has published its most recent report 
dated 5 April 2021 on the gov.uk website and its own website. The report 
fully complies with the legislation and an abridged summary is given below 
which includes the Company’s two legal entities required to report (‘HFD’ 
and ‘MCD’) and additionally the ultimate holding company (‘PLC’) not 
required to report.
• The Company’s overall median pay gap was lower than the UK national 
average at 1.8% (national average: 15.4%)
• The proportion of men and women receiving bonuses:
 – HFD – men 88.9%, women 81.2%
 – MCD – men 97.2%, women 93.6% 
 – PLC – men 0.0%, women 0.0% 
195% of the workforce have a performance-related bonus opportunity available to  
them without subscription, and bonus opportunities cover areas including sales and 
operating profit.
Headlam Group PLC  ESG Report 2022 7RIDDORs Detail 
None of the 19 RIDDORs in 2021 resulted in serious or ongoing life-
changing injury. The below table details the type of incidents in 2021, and 
the prior year1. 
RIDDORs
T ype of Incident 2021 20201
Handling 6 3
Struck by moving vehicle 5 2
Slip, trip, fall 4 6
Struck by stationary object – –
Fall from height 4 –
Other – 1
T otal 19 12
As an indicator of the Company’s performance against an industry 
standard, below is the Company’s RIDDORs incidence rate and frequency 
rate compared against an HSE benchmark: 
• Headlam’s RIDDOR incidence rate – 950 RIDDORs per 100,000 
employees (compared against an HSE benchmark (from 2020/21) of 
1,104 RIDDORs per 100,000 employees for ‘Warehousing and support 
activities for transportation’) 
• Headlam’s RIDDOR frequency rate – 4.86 RIDDORs for every 
1,000,000 hours worked (compared against a HSE benchmark of 3.77 
RIDDORs per 1,000,000 hours worked in ‘T ransportation and storage’) 
Source: www.hse.gov.ukLocal Communities 
In a new initiative to be launched in 2022, it is proposed that each site 
across the group will be allocated a certain monetary amount per 
employee on site by the Company, with the total to be donated to a 
local cause from a voted-upon shortlist, and that this will be replicated 
annually. In addition to monetary donations, charitable giving will also 
continue to be undertaken through donations of floorcovering products 
to identified local good causes. 
1 The majority of the Company’s operations were subject to COVID-19 related temporary 
closures during the first half of 2020.
Headlam Group PLC  ESG Report 2022 8ESG REPORT Environment 
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’)
This TCFD disclosure forms part of the Company’s full-form ESG Report. The table below and on pages 9 to 12 details Headlam’s responses in 
alignment with the TCFD recommendations. The Company has provided responses across the TCFD pillars, and aims to advance the maturity of its 
climate-related actions and disclosures on an annual basis. In this regard, the Company anticipates providing a full qualitative scenario analysis within its 
next full-form ESG Report published alongside the 2022 Annual Report and Accounts, followed by a quantitative scenario analysis published alongside 
the 2023 Annual Report and Accounts. 
 
Governance Disclosure
The Board’s oversight of 
climate-related risks and 
opportunities The Board has primary oversight and ultimate responsibility for ESG strategy and performance, which includes the approach and 
actions in relation to climate-related issues. ESG is considered quarterly by the Board, and four discussions took place at Board 
Meetings during 2021. During 2022, the Company is proposing to establish a ESG Committee to assist the Board with the more 
detailed aspects of its ESG agenda, and to hold management to account on the implementation of the ESG strategy approved by the 
Board. 
While ultimate responsibility for risk governance sits with the Board, the Audit Committee assists in risk oversight (as described 
within Risk Management on page 34 of the 2021 Annual Report and Accounts). During 2022, ESG material issues will be reported 
to the Audit Committee by the Executive Risk Committee (detailed below) and discussed at each of their quarterly meetings, with 
management’s approach to mitigating risk and capturing opportunity challenged appropriately. 
Management’s role in 
assessing and managing 
climate-related risks and 
opportunities The Company has an established Executive Risk Committee which meets quarterly and comprises the Chief Financial Officer , 
members of the Executive T eam, senior managers and heads of departments (including from operations and finance). Its role 
is to review identified risks, including the likelihood and potential impact of each risk, establish and monitor the effectiveness of 
mitigating and opportunistic actions, and consider emerging risk. During 2021, the Committee, which is supported by an external risk 
management specialist, expanded its remit to include monitoring of ESG material issues (including climate-related). 
During 2021, an ESG Working Group was also established. The Working Group meets monthly and is comprised of members of 
the Executive T eam, senior managers and department heads, with representatives reporting to the Chief Executive on outputs. Its 
principal activity is the day-to-day management and delivery of projects in relation to the Company’s ESG strategy, with projects 
covering actions to both mitigate climate risk and capture opportunity. 
Strategy and Risk 
ManagementDisclosure
The organisation’s processes 
for identifying and assessing 
climate-related risks The Company’s risk governance and management processes are detailed within Risk Management, and Principal Risks and 
Uncertainties on page 36 of the 2021 Annual Report and Accounts. Additionally, the Company publishes an annually updated 
Materiality Assessment (on page 3 of this Report). Its preparation includes a qualitative assessment of ESG risks, inclusive of climate-
related, on the composite bases of likelihood and potential impact of ‘raw’ risk. Risks considered include T ransition Risks, such as 
market, policy and legal (both existing and emerging), technology, and reputation, and Physical Risks (both acute and chronic). This 
process allows the Company to both identify climate-related risks and opportunities and determine their relative significance to the 
business. 
Headlam Group PLC  ESG Report 2022 9Strategy and Risk 
Management 
continuedDisclosure
How processes for 
identifying, assessing and 
managing climate-related 
risks are integrated into the 
organisation’s overall risk 
managementClimate-related risks are considered as part of the identified ‘Environmental (incorporating climate change)’ Principal Risk (see page 38 
of the 2021 Annual Report and Accounts) and, therefore, integrated into the Company’s overall risk management process. However , 
notwithstanding the Company’s considered relatively low exposure in the medium-term to climate-related risk as set-out in the risk 
table below, the Company recognises there is more that can be done to assess and integrate specific climate-related risks into its risk 
management, and will undertake work in this regard during 2022.
The climate-related risks and 
opportunities the organisation 
has identified over the short, 
medium and long term 
The impact of climate-related 
risks and opportunities on the 
organisation’s business(es), 
strategy and financial planning
The organisation’s processes 
for managing climate-related 
risksThe below table details the Company’s key climate-related risks. Risks have been categorised in alignment with the TCFD 
recommendations and with associated time horizons. Time horizons have been defined by the Company as short term (< 2 years), 
medium term (2–5 years), and long term (> 5 years) for the purpose of this TCFD disclosure. 
This is the Company’s first TCFD disclosure, and in future years the Company aims to explore the financial materiality of identified risks 
in greater detail. Currently only the ‘T ransition: Policy and Legal: EPR* scheme’ risk listed below is judged to potentially have any material 
financial impact when taking into account all factors, including likelihood and potential impact. 
Risk categories Description Impact Mitigation actions
T ransition: Market T ransitioning to more 
sustainable business and 
operating practices. 
Time horizon: short / 
medium term 
Likelihood: high 
Impact: lowIntroduces transition risk into 
the business, including through 
implementing new ways of 
operating. 
A large proportion of the ‘change’ 
projects are already underway, 
with a number resulting in 
operating efficiencies and 
associated cost savings which 
will help offset any related costs, 
although not material. Dedicated internal team and control 
framework in place that oversees 
change projects in the business. 
Actions required to implement ESG 
strategy considered as part of the 
annual budgeting process. 
List of projects include changes to 
commercial and non-commercial 
fleet and operations to reduce GHG 
emissions (see page 4 of this Report). 
T ransition: Policy 
and Legal Financial impact of potential 
new legislation / regulation. 
Time horizon: medium / 
long term 
Likelihood: high 
Impact: high Implementation of a potential 
EPR* scheme on bulky waste 
could reduce the profitably for 
the Company of certain products 
it sells. Likely the government will 
undertake a consultation within 
the next five years (although it 
is considered unlikely that the 
scheme would be implemented 
within that period). Likely increase in sustainable 
products available, and ongoing 
advances in recycling technologies 
and infrastructure, increasing the 
proportion of products able to be 
recycled over the next few years. With 
associated lowering of recycling-
related costs. 
Company able to use its scale and 
network to be the preferred strategic 
partner for suppliers, and defray costs. 
*Extended Producer Responsibility
Headlam Group PLC  ESG Report 2022 10ESG REPORT 
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’)  continued
Strategy and Risk 
Management 
continuedDisclosure
Risk categories Description Impact Mitigation actions
T ransition: Market Changing consumer 
preferences. 
Time horizon: medium / 
long term 
Likelihood: high 
Impact: medium Low current interest among a 
large proportion of consumers in 
paying a premium for sustainable 
flooring products, with 
sustainable products making-
up a small proportion of overall 
offering. This is anticipated to 
change over the coming years.
Potential increase in demand for 
‘hard’ flooring as a result of any 
rise in climate temperature. Working closely with suppliers on 
examining and promoting sustainable 
product offerings. 
Due to leading position, the 
Company is best placed to promote 
suppliers’ products into the market, 
and can quickly alter its offering to 
reflect consumer preferences. 
Physical: Chronic 
and Acute Supply chain disruption. 
Time horizon: long term 
Likelihood: medium 
Impact: medium Potential raw material shortages 
due to effects of climate change, 
with knock-on impact on product 
supply / availability. Scale and close strategic 
partnerships with suppliers should 
enable the Company to preserve 
levels of availability (as demonstrated 
during the recent period of industry 
wide supply issues). 
Proliferation and homogeneous 
nature of certain products allowing 
for substitution options. 
Physical: Chronic 
and Acute Asset damage. 
Time horizon: long term 
Likelihood: low 
Impact: lowDamage to physical assets as a 
result of storm or flooding. The Company’s assets are not 
expected to be exposed to high 
physical climate-related risk due to 
geographies it operates in. Issue to 
continue to be monitored. 
As referenced above, a number of the risk mitigation actions can translate into opportunities for the Company, for example: cost 
savings from efficiency-related ‘change’ projects; exclusive sustainable product offerings; ability to manage costs due to network and 
scale; and being the preferred strategic partner for suppliers and other industry bodies (including recycling technology providers) due 
to market leading position.
Resilience of the 
organisation’s strategy, taking 
into consideration different 
climate-related scenariosThe Company’s main focus to date has been on the fundamentals of risk identification and development of associated mitigating 
actions. Given this focus, alongside resource requirements and the considered relatively low exposure in the medium-term to climate-
related risk per the risk table disclosure above, climate-related scenarios have not been considered for this first TCFD disclosure. The 
Company will continue to develop its reporting and anticipates providing a full qualitative scenario analysis within its next full-form ESG 
Report published alongside the 2022 Annual Report and Accounts, followed by a quantitative scenario analysis published alongside the 
2023 Annual Report and Accounts.
Headlam Group PLC  ESG Report 2022 11Metrics and T argets Disclosure
Metrics used by the 
organisation to assess 
climate-related risks and 
opportunities T o provide a tool to assess the Company’s progress in relation to climate-related risks and opportunities, certain KPIs and T argets have 
been introduced. These are: 
 
KPIs 
• Recycled protective plastic packaging usage 
• Deliveries per commercial vehicle (with associated reduction in fleet number)  
• T ransportation (Scope 1) emissions* per £ of revenue 
 
T argets
• Net zero emissions ambition for 2035 
• Percentage of non-commercial fleet plug-in hybrid or low emission 
• ISO 14001 environmental accreditation  
• 30% of sales coming from digital channels (less carbon intensive ordering method) 
Details of the listed KPIs and T argets can be found elsewhere in this Report and / or in the 2021 Annual Report and Accounts.  
An intensity metric is additionally given within the Company’s SECR Disclosure (page 56 of the 2021 Annual Report and Accounts). 
Further KPIs and T argets will be introduced in subsequent full-form ESG Reports. 
Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 
3 greenhouse (‘GHG’) 
emissions, and the related 
risksThe Company’s Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, and detail of,  are summarised on page 13 of this Report, giving comparative years where 
available.
T argets used by the 
organisation to manage 
climate-related risks 
and opportunities and 
performance against targets The targets introduced by the Company to date are detailed above, with further targets to be introduced in subsequent reports. 
The Company anticipates introducing an initial reduction target for direct internal (Scope 1 and Scope 2) GHG emissions, as well as a 
costed decarbonisation transition plan to support the net zero emissions ambition, with its next ESG Report to be published alongside 
the 2022 Annual Report and Accounts.
*Defined as emissions from the Company’s UK distribution commercial vehicles 
Headlam Group PLC  ESG Report 2022 12Scope 1   Direct GHG emissions, predominantly arising from Headlam’s 
transportation activities
Scope 2   GHG emissions generated from purchased electricity at 
Headlam’s sites
Scope 3   Indirect GHG emissions produced outside Headlam’s 
own operations
ESG REPORT GHG emissions 
Over 80% of the Company’s direct internal emissions arise from fuel 
sources used in its transportation commercial fleet, with the remainder 
mainly accounted for by natural gas usage and electricity consumption 
at sites. 
Scope 3 emissions are GHG emissions that the Company is indirectly 
responsible for outside its own operations – from the goods the 
Company purchases, to the disposal of floorcoverings once sold. In 
2021, the Company conducted its first Scope 3 emissions assessment 
following the GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting 
Standard methodology in conjunction with its top 15 suppliers. The 
assessment is available to view at www.headlam.com and is summarised 
below. From this assessment the Company estimates that the sources 
of its indirect GHG emissions were: 1) Manufacture of purchased goods 
and services (70%); 2) End-of-life sold products (23%); and 3) Other plus 
Upstream transport (7%). Also from this assessment alongside the SECR 
Disclosure (see page 56 of the 2021 Annual Report and Accounts), the 
Company’s indirect emissions far exceed its direct internal emissions: 
• Scope 3: 97.3% of total emissions*
• Scope 1 and 2: 2.7% of total emissions* 
The Company will next engage with suppliers on a Scope 3 emissions 
assessment in late 2022, and this will be performed annually thereafter . 
Undertaking this work is a valuable tool to understand supply chain 
emissions, and importantly engage with individual suppliers on their own 
environmental / sustainability ambitions and supply chain efficiencies. 
It serves as an important framework, amongst other forms of 
engagement, to deepen the partnership approach with suppliers most 
able to demonstrate responsible business conduct and supply chain 
efficiencies.
Water 
The Company is not a large consumer of water , which it primarily uses for 
cleaning its commercial vehicles, and is engaged in limiting usage where 
possible. Water consumption in 2021 was 31,422 cubic metres** (2020: 
36,640 cubic metres).
* Scope 1 and 2 emissions data is 2021 re-stated to remain consistent with re-classification 
of grey fleet within Scope 3. Scope 3 is 2020 data, also re-stated for consistency.
**Excludes water consumption by the Company’s Swiss operations disposed of in 2021.Scope 3 emissions*:
Scope 3: 97. 3%Scope 1: 2.4%End-of-life  
sold products:
23%
Upstream  
transport:
4%Other:1
3%
Manufacture of 
purchased goods 
and services
70%
Scope 2: 0.3%1  Waste generated in operation, employee commuting, capital goods, and fuel-related 
activities not included in Scope 1 and 2.
Category percentages re-stated to remain consistent with reclassification of grey fleet 
within Scope 3.
Headlam’s Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions*:
Key
Headlam Group PLC  ESG Report 2022 13Operating since 1992, Headlam works with 
suppliers across the globe manufacturing 
a diverse range of floorcovering products, 
and provides them with a cost efficient and 
effective route to market for their products into 
the highly fragmented trade customer base. 
T o maximise customer reach, Headlam 
operates 66 businesses across the UK 
and Continental Europe (France and the 
Netherlands). Each business operates under 
its own trade brand and utilises individual sales 
teams while being supported by the group’s 
network, central teams and resources. 
The Company’s extensive customer base 
covers both the residential and commercial 
sectors, with principal customer groups 
being independent retailers and smaller 
flooring contractors alongside other 
customer segments such as larger 
(multiple) retailers, housebuilders, specifiers, 
and larger contractors (including local 
government / authorities). 
Headlam provides customers with a market 
leading service through:
• the broadest product offering;
• unrivalled product knowledge;
• tailored service propositions and solutions;
• sales team and marketing support;
• ecommerce support and digital applications;
• nationwide delivery; and
• trade counter and collection service.
Transport
IntegrationSales Force 
Effectiveness Trade 
CountersEcommerce/ 
Digitalisation Network 
ConsolidationCustome r 
Propositions 
/ Multiple 
RetailersESG    
Strategy
Transport
IntegrationSales Force 
Effectiveness Trade 
CountersEcommerce/ 
Digitalisation Network 
ConsolidationCustome r 
Propositions 
/ Multiple 
RetailersESG    
StrategyTransport
IntegrationSales Force 
Effectiveness Trade 
CountersEcommerce/ 
Digitalisation Network 
ConsolidationCustome r 
Propositions 
/ Multiple 
RetailersESG    
Strategy
Trade counters (UK)
53Distribution hubs  
and centres
21Commercial fleet (HGV)
358ABOUT USContents Generation – Section
Customer accounts
24,830Years operating
30
Businesses
66
SKUs
39,000ABOUT US  
market leader
Headlam Group PLC  ESG Report 2022 14Headlam Group Plc
PO Box 1
Gorsey Lane
Coleshill
Birmingham
B46 1LW
UK
T el: 01675 433 000 
Fax: 01675 433 030
Email: headlamgroup@headlam.com 
Sat Nav: B46 1JU
www.headlam.com
Company number: 00460129