2008 Corporate  
Sustainability ReportScope of  
Report
The principal facilities and assets operated by Hess 
Corporation and its subsidiaries during calendar year 2008 
are included in this report. Environmental, health, safety 
and social responsibility (EHS & SR) data refer to gross 
figures from operated facilities as well as for third-party 
activities where Hess has overall responsibility as specified 
in contractual arrangements. 
The information provided in this report has been guided 
by the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G3 Sustainability 
Reporting Guidelines . To ensure oil and gas sector-specific 
coverage, we have also followed the joint International 
Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation 
Association and the American Petroleum Institute’s Oil 
and Gas Industry Guidance on Sustainability Reporting . 
Report content was selected based on GRI’s principles 
and guidance. Materiality was considered in determining 
whether to provide quantitative data where specified in 
addition to qualitative information. We have provided 
quantitative data for GRI indicators we consider to be 
material to the extent practicable given our current 
corporate data collection and aggregation systems. 
The GRI’s Reporting Guidance for Boundary Setting  
was applied to determine the inclusion of operational 
performance data for three key joint ventures not under 
Hess’ direct operational control but where we have significant influence: the HOVENSA Refinery in the United 
States Virgin Islands, the Joint Development Area (JDA) in 
Malaysia/Thailand and SonaHess in Algeria.  
To facilitate comparisons with prior years’ reports, data 
from HOVENSA has been presented separately. SonaHess 
and JDA performance data are included in Hess totals.
Also, some quantitative EHS performance data have been 
reported on a normalized basis to facilitate year-on-year 
comparisons. 
Net equity greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions have been 
reported for operations in which Hess had an equity 
interest but that were operated by other companies.  
With the exception of net equity GHG emissions, this 
report does not include EHS & SR data on operations in 
which the company has an equity interest but that are 
operated by other companies. Hess’ operations in Russia 
are being integrated into our EHS & SR data management 
system and have not been included in this report.
The quality of the information and data included in this 
report were reviewed by ERM Certification and Verification 
Services (ERM CVS), an accredited independent third 
party. ERM CVS’ verification statement has been included 
at the end of this report. ERM CVS also provided an 
opinion on the self-declared GRI Application Level.
On the cover: Danish Nature Conservation, a Hess sponsored national environmental program.Note: Following a review by ERM CVS, our 
external verifier, Hess is self-declaring a GRI 
Application level of A+ in conformance with  
the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.Report Application Levels2002
In Accor dance C C + B B + A A +
Third
Party
CheckedSelf
Declar ed
Report Exter nally Assur ed
Report Exter nally Assur ed
Report Exter nally Assur ed
GRI
CheckedOptional Mandatory
C C + B B + A A +
Third
Party
CheckedSelf
Declar ed
Report Exter nally Assur ed
Report Report Exter nally Assur ed
GRI
CheckedOptional Mandatory✓|    52  Performance Data    |    53  GRI Content Index    |    56  Verification Statement    |
4
 2
Our Company Message from our
ChairmanOur Global Reach6Table of 
Contents
26
Environmental  
PerformanceHow We Operate Safety Performance
20
 10
46
Global Workforce Community & Social  
PerformanceSocial Responsibility  
Activities
40
 50In 2008 we successfully executed our strategy to build 
a company that will sustain long term profitable growth 
while making a positive impact on the communities 
where we do business. Our company is committed to 
help meet the world’s demand for energy in a way that 
protects the health and safety of our stakeholders and 
respects the environment.  
While a severe global recession has temporarily lowered 
energy demand, we expect that growth will resume as 
the economy recovers. Meeting the demand upturn 
with sufficient supply will be made more challenging by 
the financial crisis that has caused delays in numerous 
exploration and production projects around the world. 
These delays will eventually lead to a gap between 
future supply and demand, resulting in shortages and 
price volatility.
Increased investments in renewables such as solar and 
wind power will fill some of the future need for energy 
but the world will still depend upon a secure supply of 
crude oil and natural gas to power the economy for at 
least the next 20 years. Promising alternatives require 
significant investment and technological breakthroughs, 
particularly in transportation, which accounts for 
half of all oil usage. It is important that our industry 
maintains the necessary investment in the exploration, 
development and production of crude oil and natural gas in a financially disciplined and environmentally 
responsible way and continues to retain and recruit 
the highly skilled individuals needed in years to come.
Our company invested $4.8 billion in capital and 
exploratory expenditures in 2008, nearly all of it focused 
on finding, developing and producing energy resources. This investment has helped us to attain a reserve life of 10 years and build a strong foundation for sustainable 
growth with assets geographically balanced between 
the United States, Europe, Asia and Africa.  
To manage through the global financial crisis, we 
have sized our 2009 capital and exploratory budget 
to $3.2 billion. This expenditure will help us maintain 
our financial strength and protect our future growth opportunities without jeopardizing our long term 
goal to increase reserves and production. A portion 
of our energy investment includes the commercial 
development of hydrogen fuel cells for use in safe, 
clean and efficient transportation systems through 
our Nuvera Fuel Cells subsidiary. 
We recognize the increased call on our industry to 
play a leading role in providing greater energy security, 
a cleaner environment and reduced greenhouse gas emissions, and we are committed to doing our part.
HESS CORPORATION PERFORMANCE 
Our company achieved earnings in 2008 of $2.36 billion 
on the strength of high crude oil prices and growth in 
our worldwide crude oil and natural gas production. 
By the end of 2008 we had lowered our ratio of debt to capitalization to 24.3 percent from 28.9 percent in 
the prior year.  In Exploration and Production our year 
end proved reserves grew by 8 percent to 1.43 billion 
barrels of oil equivalent and we replaced 171 percent 
of production. Worldwide crude oil and natural gas 
production grew to an average of 381,000 barrels of 
oil equivalent per day. 
Marketing and Refining continued to contribute to our 
company and serve our customers. Energy Marketing, 
which provides energy to 17,000 commercial and 
industrial customers in the eastern United States, 
experienced strong growth in its Demand Response and Carbon Neutral programs, which encourage 
responsible energy usage and reward efficiency. Retail 
Marketing, which has 1,366 gasoline and convenience 
stores along the East Coast of the U.S., launched an 
energy efficiency program that reduced electricity 
consumption throughout our network by 10 percent.Message from 
our Chairman
02
JOHN B. HESS
Chairman of the Board  
and Chief Executive OfficerWhile we are proud of our achievements, we face 
challenges on many fronts, including volatile changes 
in commodity prices, high costs of drilling and 
development activities, the need for technical success 
in finding and developing hydrocarbon reserves, 
political instability in certain areas where we conduct 
operations, environmental concerns and the need 
to maintain a competitive position by attracting and 
retaining innovative and highly skilled professionals. 
An important component of our progress is a social 
responsibility strategy focused on improving safety, 
health and environmental performance while making a positive impact on the communities where we 
operate. This strategy is guided by our values, policy 
statements and management systems, which protect 
our employees, customers, host communities and the environment.
In 2008 we achieved our best ever employee safety 
performance with a 16 percent improvement over 
the previous year and a reduction in the severity 
of incidents. We remain focused on improving our 
personnel and process safety performance, particularly 
in the area of contractor safety, which proved especially 
challenging last year.    
We have noted in previous reports that our absolute 
emissions of greenhouse gases increased as we grew 
our business. In 2008, CO
2 emissions from operated 
assets increased due to the inclusion of sales from the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area. We have 
plans in place to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions 
intensity over the next five years and we are working to 
stabilize our absolute emissions over the near term. For 
the second straight year, we secured 10 percent of all 
purchased electricity for our operations from renewable 
energy sources. 
Last year our contributions to support health, education 
and community development grew to $21 million from 
$16.4 million in 2007 and included $3 million to the 
Greater Houston Community Foundation for Hurricane Ike relief efforts. Our partnership with the government in 
Equatorial Guinea to improve primary education made 
substantial progress in 2008 by training 1,165 teachers 
and completing the renovation of 40 model schools. 
OUR COMMITMENT  
The global reach of our operations demands our 
commitment to key voluntary initiatives with respect to human rights, environmental protection and financial 
transparency. We support the Extractive Industries 
Transparency Initiative, the Voluntary Principles on 
Security and Human Rights, the Universal Declaration 
on Human Rights and the UN Global Compact. In 2008, we continued our participation in multi-stakeholder 
dialogue processes, provided comprehensive guidance 
for country managers and conducted training of 
business units in higher risk locations.
Climate change is a global issue with significant 
consequences for society and the energy industry. 
Hess supports U.S. climate change legislation that treats all affected parties equitably and in a cost 
effective manner. We believe in long term international 
collaboration to diversify energy production and 
achieve meaningful reductions in greenhouse gas 
emissions. Our Climate Change Network, comprised 
of senior managers and specialists from across the 
company, has worked to develop a comprehensive 
strategy with targets for minimizing our carbon footprint. We have developed a five year greenhouse 
gas emissions intensity reduction target and an  
energy efficiency program.   
In coming years we will continue to pursue our 
strategy of sustainable growth targeting first quartile 
operating performance across our business. Important 
components of our strategy include continually improved 
safety performance, support for human rights globally, 
the development of strategic partnerships in social 
responsibility, reduction of our carbon emissions and the continued commercialization of Nuvera fuel cells.
We are proud of the progress we have made in the 
growth of our company and we recognize that success 
is a long journey. With the continuing support of our 
customers, employees, investors, business partners 
and communities where we do business, we are confident that we are building a sustainable enterprise 
that will make a positive impact on the world around us.
JOHN B. HESS
Chairman of the Board  
and Chief Executive Officer
03Hess Corporation (NYSE: HES) is a leading global 
independent energy company with headquarters 
in New York City and 12,432 employees operating 
across the globe. The company is engaged in 
the exploration and production of crude oil and 
natural gas, as well as refining and marketing 
petroleum products, natural gas and electricity. 
We have a strong leadership team and a focused professional staff that are positioning the company for long-term financial strength and stability. We 
are committed to meeting the highest standards 
of corporate citizenship by ensuring a safe and 
healthy workplace, safeguarding the environment 
and making a lasting and positive impact on the 
communities where we do business.
Our 
Company
Shenzi Development in the Gulf of Mexico
We have a strong leadership team and a focused 
professional staff that are positioning the company for long 
term financial strength and stability.
04ExPlORATION AND PRODUCTION (E&P)
In 2008 Hess worldwide oil and gas production 
averaged 381,000 barrels of oil equivalent per 
day and our proved reserves grew to 1,432 
million barrels of oil equivalent with a reserve life 
of 10 years. Hess geoscientists have leveraged 
deep water exploration and advanced seismic 
technology to develop challenging oil and gas 
resources around the world. The company pursued 
a rigorous drilling schedule with success, and that program will continue in 2009 with exploration 
and appraisal wells planned in Australia, Malaysia, 
Brazil, Peru, the United Kingdom, Libya and the 
Gulf of Mexico. MARkETING AND REFINING (M&R)
Hess continues to be the leading independent 
gasoline convenience store marketer on the  
East Coast of the United States with 1,366 Hess-branded retail locations. We selectively acquire 
additional retail sites to strengthen our market 
presence. Hess Energy Marketing is the largest 
provider of natural gas, fuel oil and electricity 
to commercial and industrial customers in the 
Northeast and Mid-Atlantic market. The company operates a network of 22 terminals to support our 
marketing operations. In refining, we operate a fluid 
catalytic cracking unit in Port Reading, N.J., and 
have a 50 percent interest in the HOVENSA refinery 
in St. Croix, U. S. Virgin Islands.
Our values set expectations for how we 
conduct business around the world. All 
company representatives are required to 
operate in accordance with our values.
Integrity     We are committed to the highest 
level of integrity in all our relationships.People      We are committed to attracting, 
retaining and energizing the best people by 
investing in their professional development 
and providing them with challenging and 
rewarding opportunities for personal growth. 
Performance     We are committed to a 
culture of performance that demands and 
rewards outstanding results throughout  
our business. 
Value Creation     We are committed 
to creating shareholder value based on 
sustained financial performance and long  
term profitable growth.
Social Responsibility     We are committed 
to meeting the highest standards of corporate 
citizenship by protecting the health and 
safety of our employees, safeguarding the 
environment and creating a long-lasting, 
positive impact on the communities where  
we do business.  
 
Independent Spirit      We are committed to 
preserving the special qualities and unique 
personality that have made us a successful independent enterprise.Integrity
People Performance
Value
CreationSocial
Responsibility
Independent
SpiritOUR V AlUES
0506Our Global  
ReachCountry of Operatio n
E&P Exploration Highlights
E&P Development Highlights
E&P Pr oduction Highlight s
UNITED ST ATESRUSSI A
INDONESIA
AUSTRALIAEGYPT
ALGERIA LIBY A
GHANA
EQUA TORIAL GUINEA
GABONUNITED
KINGDOM
PERU
BRAZI L
ASIA AND AUSTRALIA HIGHLIGHTS
  Drilled four successful wells of fshor e 
Western Australia
  Advanced the Gaja Banu Development 
in the Natuna Sea and the Ujun g 
Pangkah LPG facility in Indonesi a
  Increased pr oduction at th e 
Malaysia/Thailand JDA an d 
commenced Phase 2 natura l 
gas sale sAFRICA HIGHLIGHTS
  Drilled successful of fsho re wells in Liby a 
and Egypt
  Achieved a full year of pr oduction at the  
Okume Complex in Equatorial GuineaUNITED ST ATES E&P HIGHLIGHTS
  Completed development of the Shenzi  
Field and advanced the Pony pr oject in  
the deepwater Gulf of Mexico
  Progressed the Residual Oil Zone pr oject 
at the Seminole San Andr es Unit in W est 
Texas
  Built land holdings to 570,000 ac res 
and drilled 60 wells in the North Dakota  
Bakken shale playEUROPE HIGHLIGHTS
  Continued the V alhall Field  
redevelopment in Norwa y
AZERBAIJAN
Marketing & Reﬁ  ning Ar ea Detail
Reﬁ nery
Terminal
MarketingHOVENSA
St. Cr oix, USVI
ST. LUCI AUNITED ST ATES M&R HIGHLIGHTS
Ener gy Marketing developed new gr een 
products and service s
Retail Marketing intr oduced Dunkin’ Donuts  
offerings at 199 Hess locations
Acquir ed a deepwater terminal in  
Bronx, N.Y ., to leverage our supply positio nTexas
Gulf of MexicoNorth Dakot aNOR WAY
DENMARK
THAILAND
Malaysia/Thailand
JDA MALA YSIA
Business Performance Highlights                            2008
Sales and other operating revenue $  Million 41,16 5
Net Income $ Million 2,36 0
Capital and exploratory expenditur es $ Million 4,82 8
Total asset s $  Million 28,58 9
Total debt $ Million 3,95 5
Stockholders’ equit y $  Million 12,30 7
Exploration and Pr oduction
Gross operated pr oduction/thr oughput 000 BOE/ D1 ,333
Total net hydr ocarbons pr oduce d0 00 BOE/ D3 81
Proved reserves (total ) M illion BO E1 ,432
United States %1 9
Europe % 31
Africa %2 3
Asia and others %2 7
Reserve Life Years1 0
Replaced pr oductio n % 171
Marketing and Reﬁ  ning
Reﬁ ned petr oleum pr oduct sale s 0 00 BOE/ D4 72
Convenience stor e sale s(a)$ Million 1,05 1
HOVENSA gr oss crude run s 0 00 BO/D 441
Port Reading feedstock runs 000 B/ D6 4
(a) Excludes petr oleum pr oductsOur company is committed  
to help meet the world’ s 
demand for ener gy in  
a way that pr otects th e 
health and safety of our  
stakeholders and r espects  
the envir onment.
06 07Business Performance Highlights                            2008
Sales and other operating revenue $ Million 41,165
Net Income $ Million 2,360
Capital and exploratory expenditures $ Million 4,828
Total assets $ Million 28,589
Total debt $ Million 3,955
Stockholders’ equity $ Million 12,307
Exploration and Production
Gross operated production/throughput 000 BOE/D 1,333
Total net hydrocarbons produced 000 BOE/D 381
Proved reserves (total) Million BOE 1,432
United States % 19
Europe % 31
Africa % 23
Asia and others % 27
Reserve Life Years 10
Replaced production % 171
Marketing and Refining
Refined petroleum product sales 000 BOE/D 472
Convenience store sales(a)$ Million 1,051
HOVENSA gross crude runs 000 BO/D 441
Port Reading feedstock runs 000 B/D 64
(a) Excludes petroleum productsOur company is committed 
to help meet the world’s demand for energy in a way that protects the health and safety of our stakeholders and respects the environment.
07Our Global  
ReachCountry of Operatio n
E&P Exploration Highlights
E&P Development Highlights
E&P Pr oduction Highlight s
UNITED ST ATESRUSSI A
INDONESIA
AUSTRALIAEGYPT
ALGERIA LIBY A
GHANA
EQUA TORIAL GUINEA
GABONUNITED
KINGDOM
PERU
BRAZI L
ASIA AND AUSTRALIA HIGHLIGHTS
  Drilled four successful wells of fshor e 
Western Australia
  Advanced the Gajah Baru Development 
in the Natuna Sea and the Ujun g 
Pangkah LPG facility in Indonesi a
  Increased pr oduction at th e 
Malaysia/Thailand JDA an d 
commenced Phase 2 natura l 
gas sale sAFRICA HIGHLIGHTS
  Drilled successful of fshor e wells in Liby a 
and Egypt
  Achieved a full year of pr oduction at the  
Okume Complex in Equatorial GuineaUNITED ST ATES E&P HIGHLIGHTS
  Completed development of the Shenzi  
Field and advanced the Pony pr oject in  
the deepwater Gulf of Mexico
  Progressed the Residual Oil Zone pr oject 
at the Seminole San Andr es Unit in W est 
Texas
  Built land holdings to 570,000 ac res 
and drilled 60 wells in the North Dakota  
Bakken shale playEUROPE HIGHLIGHTS
  Continued the V alhall Field  
redevelopment in Norwa y
AZERBAIJAN
Marketing & Reﬁ  ning Ar ea Detail
Reﬁ nery
Terminal
MarketingHOVENSA
St. Cr oix, USVI
ST. LUCI AUNITED ST ATES M&R HIGHLIGHTS
Ener gy Marketing developed new gr een 
products and service s
Retail Marketing intr oduced Dunkin’ Donuts  
offerings at 199 Hess locations
Acquir ed a deepwater terminal in  
Bronx, N.Y ., to leverage our supply positio nTexas
Gulf of MexicoNorth Dakot aNOR WAY
DENMARK
THAILAND
Malaysia/Thailand
JDA MALA YSIA
Business Performance Highlights                            2008
Sales and other operating revenue $  Million 41,16 5
Net Income $ Million 2,36 0
Capital and exploratory expenditur es $ Million 4,82 8
Total asset s $  Million 28,58 9
Total debt $ Million 3,95 5
Stockholders’ equit y $  Million 12,30 7
Exploration and Pr oduction
Gross operated pr oduction/thr oughput 000 BOE/ D1 ,333
Total net hydr ocarbons pr oduce d0 00 BOE/ D3 81
Proved reserves (total ) M illion BO E1 ,432
United States %1 9
Europe % 31
Africa %2 3
Asia and others %2 7
Reserve Life Years1 0
Replaced pr oductio n % 171
Marketing and Reﬁ  ning
Reﬁ ned petr oleum pr oduct sale s 0 00 BOE/ D4 72
Convenience stor e sale s(a)$ Million 1,05 1
HOVENSA gr oss crude run s 0 00 BO/D 441
Port Reading feedstock runs 000 B/ D6 4
(a) Excludes petr oleum pr oductsOur company is committed  
to help meet the world’ s 
demand for ener gy in  
a way that pr otects th e 
health and safety of our  
stakeholders and r espects  
the envir onment.
06 07VAlUE CREATION •  Record earnings on strength of growth 
in oil and gas production and high 
crude oil prices.
•  Reserve life improved for sixth consecutive year.
•  Debt to capitalization ratio decreased.
SAFETY & HEAl TH •  Best-ever employee safety performance; no employee fatalities. 
•  Safety improvement for five  consecutive years.
•  Process safety metrics deployed company-wide.
•  Health and Wellness initiative (Health4Life) deployed in U.S.
PEOPlE •  Global employee engagement  survey conducted - Voice of Hess.
•  Organizational competencies  defined and learning management system developed.
TRANSPARENCY 
& HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMUNITY  
& SOCIAl   
PERFORMANCE•  Human Rights (HR) risk assessment 
tool developed for global operations.
•  HR Guide developed for  country managers.
•  HR field assessment piloted.
•  Participation in Hurricane Ike relief by company and employees.
•  Continued investment in Equatorial 
Guinea educational initiatives.ACCOMPLISHMENTS METRIC
•  $2.4 billion net income.
•  Increased to 10 years.    
•  29 percent to 24 percent.
•  1.09 Total Recordable 
Incident Rate.
•  50 percent decrease in recordable rate in five years.
•  Baseline data currently  being gathered.
ENVIRONMENT •  Climate Change Network (CCN) established to formulate carbon management strategy.
•  Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area (JDA) integrated into  annual sustainability reporting.•  CCN work groups drafted 
carbon mitigation strategies.
•  JDA safety and environmental data incorporated in report.
•  84 percent participation rate.    
•  Applied to four professional groups. 
•  Piloted online courses.
•  Five site visits related to 
HR/transparency.
•  HR guide rolled out in target countries.
•  20 contact meetings with host 
governments and international 
financial institutions related to 
transparency/HR.
•  $3 million commitment to 
recovery; extensive employee volunteerism.
•  40 model schools refurbished; 1,165 teachers trained.Accomplishments, Challenges & Opportunities
08•  Managing business to achieve long-term 
objectives during economic downturn.
•  Expanding reserve base in technologically, 
environmentally and politically challenging environments.•  Sustainable growth in E&P reserve base.
•  Manage M&R business for earnings and cash flow.
•  Strategic acquisitions to enhance portfolio.
•  Incorporating renewables into product offering.CHALLENGES OPPORTUNITIES
•  Continued improvement in safety culture and management systems to reduce risk of incidents with employees, contractors and joint ventures.
•  Identifying appropriate programs and tools  to match diverse populations, workplace  audiences and venues.•  Drive improved safety performance by continuing  to mature culture of safety excellence.
•  Achieve aspirational goal of zero safety incidents.
•  Ensuring workplace culture, environment, and  policies prioritize employee health.
•  Maintain focus and morale during difficult economic times.
•  Continued recruitment of highly skilled professional talent.•  Learning Management System used to meet individual development needs.
•  Skill sets of local workforce developed and small business supply chain expanded in countries  where we operate.•  Continued reduction of environmental footprint.
•  Reduction in normalized GHG emissions  
while growing the business.
•  Improved energy efficiency in a weak economy where competition for capital is intense.
• Reducing spills and releases.•  Set five-year normalized GHG reduction targets.
•  Establishing corporate wide energy efficiency program.
•  Reduce upstream hydrocarbon flaring by 50 percent in  
Algeria and Equatorial Guinea over next five years. 
•  Integrate carbon monetization into investment decisions.
•  Openness of host governments to  
transparency and increased disclosure.
•  Promote voluntary principles on security  and human rights at non-operated and  
minority interest assets.
•  Continue to develop locally competitive  
supply chains.
•  Ensure that projects are sustainable beyond  
our involvement and add lasting value.•  Implementation of country-specific human rights  
risk assessment and training.
•  Continued involvement in Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative and promotion  
of Voluntary Principles for Security and 
Human Rights with business partners.
•  Partnering with host governments, NGOs and  others to advance health and education.
•  Integrating social responsibility into company’s business practices.
0910
How We 
Operate
STRATEGY AND APPROACH
Our company’s corporate values – Integrity, 
People, Performance, Value Creation, Social 
Responsibility and Independent Spirit – are the 
framework for ethical standards by which we conduct our business.   
Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, as well 
as our Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) and 
Social Responsibility (SR) policies, management 
systems and initiatives are designed to identify and manage the risks associated with our operations, products and services. We view EHS & SR as 
core components of our approach to operational 
excellence. Business units are held accountable 
for integrating operational excellence into the way they conduct business and for continually improving 
performance.
The company is committed to improvement in EHS 
& SR activities and to sharing our performance 
and progress openly with the public. The company Hess Values set the framework and establish the ethical 
standards by which we conduct our business.Pangkah Gas Processing facility, Indonesia11has endorsed key international voluntary initiatives 
designed to protect the environment, promote universal human rights and provide financial transparency. We value a diverse supply chain and the contributions we make to our local economies.
 
The company pays careful attention to customer privacy issues, follows specific customer satisfaction practices and responds rapidly to customer concerns and complaints. We engage in key industry associations to ensure that we aspire to best industry practices, are current on all important issues with the potential to impact our businesses, and have our positions on legislative and regulatory matters represented to appropriate stakeholders.
BOARD AND MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE
Board of Directors     The Board of Directors is 
accountable to shareholders for all aspects of Hess’ business, including financial and non-financial performance. Currently the Board consists of 14 directors, ten of whom are independent, and is chaired by John B. Hess, who is also Chief Executive Officer of the company. The Board holds eight regular meetings per year and has three principal committees: Audit; Compensation and Management Development; and Corporate Governance and Nominating. Members of these committees are independent, in accordance with New York Stock Exchange and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rules. Each committee has a written charter that sets forth its purpose and responsibilities.  
Audit Committee     The Audit Committee fulfills 
the Board’s responsibility to oversee the company’s financial statements, financial reporting practices, systems of internal accounting and financial and disclosure controls, internal audit function, retention and oversight of independent auditors, and oversight of the company’s environment, health, safety and social responsibility programs. The committee has six members and usually meets six times a year. The Audit Committee routinely reviews 
the company’s EHS & SR performance.Hess leadership Team     The Hess Leadership 
Team of top executive officers provides strategic business direction and makes key operational decisions for the company. The Leadership Team has established several objectives to provide a clear 
focus on the promotion of EHS & SR policies and 
management systems that protect the company’s workforce, customers and local communities. Executive compensation is linked to select EHS & SR performance metrics. The Leadership Team also establishes performance objectives and holds business units accountable for their performance. The company’s business units and line management are responsible for incorporating EHS & SR expectations into business activities and providing adequate resources and mechanisms to meet performance objectives.
Related Party Transactions     The company 
requires its directors and executive officers to bring to the company’s attention any related party transactions, including those which may be required to be disclosed under Securities and Exchange regulations. The company’s code of business conduct and ethics provides that if any company representative, including a director or officer, considers conducting any transaction that might give rise to a conflict of interest, that person must report the transaction in advance to the company’s legal department for review.
COMMUNICATION  WITH  THE 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Any stockholder or interested party who 
wishes to communicate or request a 
meeting with members of the Board of 
Directors or with only non-management 
directors or any specified individual 
director may do so by writing to them 
in care of the Chairperson of the 
Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, Hess Corporation, P .O. Box 
2694, Easton, Maryland 21601, or by 
e-mail to directors@hess.com.12HESS  RAN kED AMONG  MOST 
TRUSTWORTHY COMPANIES
In 2009 Forbes magazine named 
Hess Corporation a leader among the 
100 Most Trustworthy Companies of 
2008. The analysis and subsequent 
ranking developed for Forbes by Audit 
Integrity, an independent Los Angeles 
financial analytics firm, based its 
findings on proprietary modeling of the financial and governance practices and 
performance of more than 8,000 small, medium, and large cap companies 
traded on U.S. exchanges. 
Hess ranked second among large cap 
companies, based on its transparent 
and prudent accounting and governance 
practices, earning Audit Integrity’s “conservative” rating that is reflective 
of low shareholder risk.
ETHICAl BUSINESS CONDUCT
The Hess Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 
(Code) describes the company’s commitment to 
integrity. It defines the company’s core values 
and ethical standards regarding business ethics, citizenship, contracting and labor practices, 
regulatory compliance, safety and stewardship of 
the environment. The company monitors compliance with the law 
and its own policies and has established telephone 
and internet services to enable stakeholders to 
report activity that may not be in compliance. 
Notices of suspected violations, including those 
made anonymously, are treated confidentially and promptly investigated in a manner that is thorough and fair. In 2008, 78 reports were received. Of 
those, 25 were substantiated, 18 of which related 
to diversity, equal opportunity and respect in the 
workplace. Follow-up action resulted in employee 
dismissal in four separate incidents, two of 
which were related to diversity issues. The Audit 
Committee of the Board of Directors reviews matters 
related to compliance with the Code.
During orientation new employees are required 
to document that they have reviewed the Code.   
In addition, the company conducts regular 
and mandatory training and evaluates salaried 
employees on ethical guidelines using an online 
Ethics Awareness Training course. Last year 3,543 
employees were assigned to take the online training. 
Of those 2,596 successfully completed the course.
The company takes no action against an employee 
who makes a complaint or reports, in good faith, 
known or suspected violations of company policy. 
Intimidation or retaliation against anyone making 
such reports is not tolerated and is a violation of 
company policy and subject to disciplinary action.
POlITICAl CONTRIBUTIONS
Hess corporate policy prohibits company contributions to political parties and candidates and the use of Hess facilities or property for campaign activities. Moreover, the policy prohibits the use of corporate resources and corporate personnel in ways that assist campaigns of candidates. Management may not coerce political contributions from employees and the company may not directly or indirectly reimburse an employee for a political contribution or channel a contribution through an employee to disguise its origin. Employees who wish to engage in the political process are encouraged to do so privately.
Hess employees trade and move petroleum products 
around the world
13EHS & SR MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
Our company uses an integrated approach to environment, health, safety, social responsibility and reliability management. Our Principles for Operational Excellence describe our company’s philosophy and a consistent continuous improvement approach.
The Principles support Hess Values, and the 
Environment, Health & Safety and Corporate Social Responsibility policies. In turn, the Principles are supported by Global Standards that define general management, environment, health, safety, social responsibility, and reliability expectations to manage significant risks to people, the environment, operating assets and our reputation.The business and facility level processes, procedures, technical guidance and work practices that are tailored for specific types of operations are aligned with the Principles and Global Standards.
The management system structure is aligned with 
the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001: 2004 international environmental management system standard and the Occupational Health and Safety Advisory Service (OHSAS) 18001 international safety management system standard. Decisions regarding ISO certification are made within the business units. Hess’ North Sea (Denmark and the U.K.) operations and the St. Lucia oil terminal are ISO 14001 certified and account for approximately 12 percent of gross operated oil production and throughput. Denmark Production and Carigali Hess are OHSAS 18001 certified.EHS, SR AND RELIABILIT Y
COMPONENTMANAGEMENT
PRACTICE
Establish an EHS,
SR & Reliability Leadership
Position in the IndustryThe Leading
Global Independent
Energy CompanyVISION
DIRECTION
& STRA TEGYValues,
Policies
& StrategiesHess Va lues,
EHS Policy and CSR Policy ,
and EHS & SR Strategy
Workfor ce Activity
& BehaviorsEXECUTIONOperating Standar ds,
Work Pr ocesses,
Procedur es & PracticesPerfor mance
ExpectationsMANAGEMENTEXPECTAT IONSHess Principles for
Operational Excellence,
Global Standar ds, and
E&P and M&R Management
Expectations and Standar ds
OPERA TIONAL EXCELLENCE
COMPONENTMANAGEMENT
PRACTICE
Establish an EHS,
SR & Reliability Leadership
Position in the IndustryThe Leading Global
Independent
Energy CompanyVISION
DIRECTION
& STRA TEGYValues,
Policies
& StrategiesHess Va lues,
EHS Policy and SR Policy,
and EHS & SR Strategy
Workfor ce Activity
& BehaviorsEXECUTIONOperating Standar ds,
Work Processes,
Procedur es & PracticesPerfor mance
ExpectationsMANAGEMENTEXPECTA TIONSHess Principles for
Operational Excellence,
Global Standar ds, and
E&P and M&R Management
Expectations and Standard s14kEY MEMBERSHIPS AND ASSOCIATIONS
Our company holds leadership roles and is active in 
international, national and local industry and business 
associations and multi-stakeholder initiatives.  
Hess holds leadership positions in the International 
Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA), the Retail Energy Supply Association, the National Petrochemical and Refiners Association, the Corporate Council on Africa, the U.S.-Libya Business Association, the 
U.S.-Algeria Business Council and the U.S.-
Azerbaijan Chamber of Commerce. 
Our company is also represented on IPIECA’s 
Strategic Issues Assessment Forum and the Climate Change and Social Responsibility working groups, the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (OGP) Environment Committee and Greenhouse Gas Reporting Task Force, the National Petrochemical and Refiners Association Safety and 
Health and Environmental Committees, and the ORC 
Worldwide Executive Business Issues Forum and 
the Occupational Safety and Health Committee.
Our involvement with these organizations and 
others, such as the International Emissions Trading Association, are the principal means by which we participate in public policy debate and lobbying.
SUSTAINABIlITY REPORTING
Our corporate environment, health and safety 
performance has been available to the public since 1997 and our social performance since 2005. Recent reports are available in hard copy and on the company Web site. Our annual sustainability report follows the Global Reporting Initiative’s G3 guidelines supplemented by IPIECA’s and the American Petroleum Institute’s Oil and Gas Industry 
Guidance on Sustainability Reporting.
The Corporate Responsibility Officer Association 
ranked Hess Corporation 15th on its “100 Best Corporate Citizens 2009” list. The ranking is based 
on evaluation of the company’s publicly available 
2007 environmental, social and governance data. Our sustainability reporting was also recognized 
by the Roberts Environmental Center of Claremont 
McKenna College as best in social reporting and second overall among the 91 New York based public companies on the 2008 Fortune 1000 list.  
We use the services of CorporateRegister.com  
to notify stakeholders when our annual sustainability 
report becomes available. We also mail and 
otherwise distribute the report to an extensive group of stakeholders, including employees. CorporateRegister collected feedback from a  
cross-section of stakeholders regarding our 2007 report. Overall, stakeholders indicated that our  
annual sustainability report continues to improve  
and is comprehensive, readable and transparent.
The company has participated in the Carbon 
Disclosure Project (CDP) for several years. 
Comprehensive qualitative and quantitative climate change management and greenhouse gas emissions data for these years are accessible on the CDP Web site (www.cdproject.net). We plan to participate 
in the next CDP survey. We also subscribe to 
OneReport
® as a means to provide data to the 
world’s leading research and rating agencies for socially responsible investors.
Air quality testing at Port Reading, N.J.
15STAkEHOlDER ENGAGEMENT
Various stakeholders shape the company’s 
business environment and affect our success. 
Because we are a vertically integrated oil and  
gas company, our value chain encompasses many different types of stakeholders. Consistent 
with the Hess Values, the company interacts with 
stakeholders in a transparent, constructive and 
productive manner. Throughout this report we provide specific 
examples of stakeholder engagement activities 
with customers, employees, shareholders, 
suppliers, communities, host governments, 
multi-lateral organizations, non-governmental 
organizations, educational institutions, socially 
responsible investors and others. Our annual 
reports and information on our Web site allow  
us to share with the public information about our 
commitment and performance.
•  Investor relations organizations
•  Shareholder dialogue  
and consultation
•  Annual shareholder meetings
•  Annual report,  
Sustainability report
•  Quarterly financial webcasts
•  Analyst meetings and dialogue
• Hess.com•  Participation in voluntary initiatives 
(Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights,  
UN Declaration on Human Rights, UN Global Compact)
•  Consultation and negotiation with 
government officials
•  Participation in local regulatory 
initiatives
•  Legislative and regulatory advocacy•  Community consultation and 
feedback
•  Social and environmental  
impact assessment
• Membership in local associations
•  Employee volunteerism  
and matching grants
•  Participation in local emergency 
planning and response organizations and activities
• Speaking engagements•  Feedback programs and surveys
•  Customer service organizations
•  Business-to-business  
communications
•  Dedicated Energy Marketing Web 
site (www.hessenergy.com)
• Trade shows
•  Product quality information
• CDP Supplier Project
EMPLOYEES SHAREHOLDERSGOVERNMENTS  
and MULTI-LATERAL  
ORGANIZATIONSCUSTOMERS  
and CONSUMERSCOMMUNITY
SUPPLIERSNGOs and  
UNIVERSITIES
•  Supplier delivery and  
local content programs
•  Supplier mentoring 
programs
•  Routine communications  
and meetings
•  Contract discussions  
and negotiations• Partnerships
• Memberships• Consultation• Matching grants• Town Hall meetings• Surveys• Compliance hotline• Safety committees•  New employee  
on-boarding process
•  Performance management 
program
• ihess.com intranet site16TRANSPARENCY AND HUMAN RIGHTS
Our Code and SR policy state our commitment to 
uphold human rights and to conduct our business with integrity. During 2008 we continued to 
actively participate in key voluntary initiatives while 
developing and implementing increasingly robust 
programs.
Human Rights and Anti-Corruption Programs    
Prior to 2006 the company conducted human rights and anti-corruption screening for new investments on a case by case basis. In 2006 and 2007 Hess completed a global security and human rights 
risk assessment for the countries in which we 
maintained business interests and identified four countries for specific follow-up.
Hess first endorsed the Voluntary Principles for 
Security and Human Rights in 2003 and has actively 
supported the effort. In 2008 we also engaged with 
U.S. company participants and non-governmental organizations, as well as government officials from the U.S. State Department and the U.K. Foreign and Commonwealth Office as part of a multi-stakeholder effort to resolve outstanding challenges within the 
process and ensure effective implementation.
In 2008 we continued to work with the U.S. State 
Department, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the Equatorial Guinea (E.G.) Government to help E.G. achieve the Extractive 
Industries Transparency Initiative’s (EITI) Candidate 
Country status and move to the validation phase. We 
were included in the EITI Secretariat’s list of “Friends 
of the EITI in E.G.” and also continued to provide data to the Azerbaijan and Gabon EITI programs.
In 2007 and 2008 the company began developing 
a more formal enterprise wide program to 
systematically operationalize our voluntary 
commitments, including a Human Rights Risk Assessment (HRRA) process.
The HRRA process is comprised of three 
stages. The first stage entails country specific reviews of U.S. State Department reports and 
information published by the international human 
rights community and the mainstream media; 
assessment of company specific activities related 
to implementation of the voluntary initiatives; and benchmarking the practices of other companies in relation to specific countries. The second stage 
includes in-country fact finding through site visits 
and discussions with senior country managers, 
security personnel, local government and non-
governmental organizations, community members and other stakeholders. The third stage documents 
the findings from the first two stages and 
recommends next steps.
In 2008 we began to develop implementation 
guidance for country managers to ensure that appropriate risk assessments are conducted and, 
depending on the project, interactions with and 
between public and private security forces are appropriately managed. Senior corporate staff 
conducted visits to operations to familiarize in-country staff with the country manager guidance 
documents and to begin awareness training on human rights and anti-corruption matters.  
Additional site visits are planned for 2009.
Security Measures     Our Code of Business 
Conduct and Ethics recognizes that in some 
countries in which the company has operations it may be unavoidable for the company to engage 
the assistance of local military or law enforcement 
personnel for security or operational reasons. We have sought to limit the use of public security forces 
and are taking steps to educate both public and 
private security providers regarding our commitment to human rights. 
labor Practices     We oppose forced and child 
labor practices and prohibit these in our operations. We support freedom of association and the rights 
and cultures of local communities, including 
those of indigenous people. The company has 
not identified operations with significant risk for incidents of child labor or forced or compulsory 17VOlUNTARY INITIATIVES
Hess Corporation has endorsed four international voluntary initiatives designed to protect the 
environment, promote universal human rights and encourage financial transparency. We are 
currently the only U.S. energy company to endorse these four initiatives:
The United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), 
established in 1948 by the U.N. General Assembly, serves as the 
international standard and codification of human rights norms and has been endorsed by 148 countries. In December 2008 Hess was one of about 230 companies recognized for its public commitment to human rights as part of a commemoration of the 60th anniversary of the UDHR.
The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) provides businesses 
a learning platform to embrace, support and promote a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. In 2002 Hess became the first UNGC signatory in the  
U.S. energy sector and continues to participate in UNGC sponsored meetings and workshops.
The Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (Voluntary 
Principles) is a voluntary guide for companies to assure the safety and security of their operations while respecting human rights and fundamental freedoms.
The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) supports 
improved governance in resource rich countries through the 
verification and publication of company payments and government revenues from oil, gas and mining. Hess publicly endorsed the initiative and its principles in 2004 and has been active in plenary sessions and working groups. 
labor. Other International Labor Organization (ILO) 
rights at work are discussed in the “Workforce” section of this report. There were no legal actions, significant fines, or non-monetary sanctions relating to anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, monopoly-related laws, regulations or indigenous peoples’ rights. The company requires full compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). During the year, approximately 80 percent of staff assigned to take FCPA anti-corruption training completed the 
training courses.Compliance     In 2005 the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) commenced a 
private investigation into payments made to the 
government of Equatorial Guinea or to officials and 
persons affiliated with officials of the government of 
Equatorial Guinea. Hess Corporation has provided 
the SEC with all documents and information 
requested. We understand that the SEC has now 
closed this issue with no further action.18OUR SUPPlIERS  
Hess is committed to a strong and diverse supplier 
network which supports our goal of making a 
positive contribution in the communities where we 
do business. We promote an inclusive business 
environment that welcomes participation by small 
and local suppliers. 
Supplier Diversity     In the United States the 
company relies on the U.S. Small Business Administration’s (SBA) definitions for small, minority 
owned and women owned businesses, as well as 
other SBA business categories. Purchasing data are 
compiled for the company’s business operations in 
the United States, where we have major operations 
along the East Coast, and in Louisiana, North Dakota, 
Texas and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
In 2008 the company spent $682 million for goods 
and services with small businesses out of a total 
of $2.3 billion; $68 million was spent with small 
diverse businesses. Hess Corporation worked with 
more than 10,000 U.S. suppliers. Between 2007 and 
2008, the company spent more than $200 million 
with small suppliers that grew to become large 
business enterprises.
HOVENSA purchased $433 million in goods and 
services available under the SBA’s programs from 
more than 2,000 U.S. suppliers. Twenty-five percent 
of those were small businesses that accounted for 
approximately $55 million in purchases.
Supplier Screening     Hess conducts quarterly 
debarment processing of its suppliers to ensure 
compliance with the U.S. Department of the 
Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) 
and the U.S. Patriot Act. Contracts for goods and 
services typically include requirements for supplier compliance with applicable laws and regulations and Hess policies in areas such as safety, health, 
environment, process safety, drug and alcohol 
use, business ethics, conflicts of interest, the 
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and labor practices. 
Internationally, E&P operations have incorporated 
provisions relating to adherence to the Voluntary 
Principles into selected supplier contracts following risk evaluations.
PRODUCT RESPONSIBIlITY
Hess Corporation makes, stores, distributes and 
sells bulk refined petroleum products, including 
gasoline and gasoline/renewable fuel blends, low 
sulfur diesel, ultra-low sulfur diesel, kerosene, 
propane, jet fuel, fuel oil and bunker oil. The 
company’s principal market for these products  
is on the U.S. East Coast. 
The full life-cycle health and safety implications 
of refined petroleum products are well studied by industry, government agencies and the scientific Hess actively promotes an inclusive business environment 
that welcomes participation by small and local suppliers.
Production operations in North Africa19community. The greatest environmental and 
human health impacts occur during the use phase. 
Reformulated gasoline and ultra-low sulfur diesel 
made by Hess and HOVENSA for use in the 
transportation sector cause less impact on air  
quality and public health than conventional fuels.
Tanks used to store refined products at our Port 
Reading facility and HOVENSA refinery, and at Hess 
terminals are clearly labeled. Petroleum products sold 
at Hess retail stores are labeled at the dispenser in 
accordance with applicable regulatory requirements. 
Each product has an associated Material Safety Data 
Sheet (MSDS) that describes chemical, physical, and 
toxicological characteristics, as well as safe handling 
and emergency response directions. These MSDSs  are available on location and at the Hess Web site, 
www.hess.com.
 
Hess follows specific customer satisfaction 
practices and responds rapidly to customer 
concerns and complaints. The company’s 
customer service departments are easily accessed 
by telephone, Internet and e-mail. We employ 
marketing representatives whose positions are dedicated to customer service and our retail station 
managers have the authority to settle customer 
service issues. Within our Retail operation, there 
is an online database where customer issues are 
logged, assigned for handling and monitored for 
appropriate closure.
The company generally limits marketing 
communications to information posted on  
www.hess.com and www.hessenergy.com and 
to signage at retail outlets and a limited number 
of sports venues. Signage at retail outlets can be 
subject to local ordinance.
The company pays particularly close attention to 
customer privacy issues with payment card security 
for Retail and Internet privacy for Energy Marketing. We dedicate ample resources to ensure the security 
of customer data through a Payment Card Industry 
(PCI) Compliance program. A privacy policy that 
provides disclosure on information use and security of customer data appears on the Energy Marketing Web site, www.hessenergy.com/privacypolicy.htm. 
In 2008 Hess met product responsibility regulations 
and voluntary codes applicable to our products and 
services and did not incur any fines.
ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTIONS
Hess Corporation provides direct and indirect 
economic contributions to those countries where 
we operate. Direct contributions of $11,600 million 
include shareholder dividends, employee wages 
and benefits, capital and operational expenditures, 
interest paid on debt, supplier spend, income taxes, 
and other payments to governments including 
royalties, severance, re-entry payments, leasehold arrangements, dispensation duties, gas transport 
fees and carbon taxes. Our social investments of 
$21 million are intended to foster indirect economic 
benefits and are discussed in the Community and 
Social Performance section of this report. The 
company did not receive any significant government 
financial assistance in 2008.
Income tax $2,420
Royalties and other
payments $891Wages and benefits (US) $720
Recordabl e supplier
spend (US) $2,345Capital and e xploration
expenditures $4,828
Dividends $130Interest paid $2662008 Economic Contributions ($ Million)
2,4204,828
2,345891720266 13020
Okume Complex, Equatorial Guinea
STRATEGY AND APPROACH
Protecting the safety and health of employees, 
contractors and customers is an essential element 
of the Hess Values. We strive for zero incidents so 
that everyone gets home safe, every day. Safety is 
essential to our operational excellence.
Our leaders set clear expectations and measurable 
accountabilities for operations. Our safety and health management systems foster effective planning 
and help managers translate expectations into 
everyday work actions. We continually assess safety 
and health efforts throughout our global operations.
Chronic, acute and catastrophic risks are evaluated 
and rigorous personal and process safety 
management plans are established to mitigate them. Effective incident reporting and well-developed Our safety and health management systems foster effective 
planning and help managers translate expectations into  
everyday work actions.Safety
Performance21emergency response systems are intended to 
further support workplace and community safety.
We conduct regular drills and exercises of our 
emergency response systems to be sure that, if 
deployed in an emergency, they would be effective 
in protecting our workforce and the community. 
To keep our operations safe, we continually review 
what we do and how we do it. This approach 
includes evaluation of significant incidents industry-
wide to identify what may be done to prevent similar 
incidents in the future.
The company’s operations are subject to national, 
regional and local health and safety regulations. 
Audits are conducted routinely by internal teams 
and external authorities to assess conformance 
with management systems and compliance with 
regulations. We dedicate significant resources 
to act in accordance with applicable regulatory 
requirements and in many cases exceed them. 
PERFORMANCE RESUl TS
For all operations we track data that serve as early 
indicators of safety and health performance and 
regularly conduct management reviews. We also 
measure actual safety performance results against 
targeted improvements.  
The key metrics we use to track personal safety 
performance are Total Recordable Incident Rate 
(TRIR) and Lost Time/Restricted Duty Incident  
Rate (LT/RD).  
Employee Safety Performance     In 2008 we 
achieved our best employee safety performance 
since we began keeping records more than 20 years 
ago. For the fourth consecutive year, there were no employee work related fatalities. Continuing a trend 
of steady improvement, the company’s injury rate in 
2008 was 60 percent lower than in 2002. Employee 
TRIR  was 1.09, a 16 percent improvement over 
2007 and nine percent better than our 2008 target.Employee Safety Performance
Employ ee TRIR Employ ee LT /RD TRIR Target0.00.51.01.52.02.53.0
20022.81
2.06
1.171.73
1.29
0.761.09
0.78
2006 2007 2008Cases per 200,000 hours1.2
Workforce Safety Performance     Between 2005 
and 2008 our overall workforce safety performance 
improved nearly 45 percent. While employee 
performance continued to improve significantly from 
2007 to 2008, that improvement was partially offset 
by the results in contractor safety performance in 
Exploration and Production. As we grew in 2008 
and took on more projects around the world, our 
operations became more complex and the safety of 
contractors became more challenging. 
Regrettably there was one contractor fatality in 
our Carigali-Hess joint venture in Southeast Asia. 
Corrective and preventive actions were taken based 
on lessons learned from a comprehensive incident 
investigation.
Workfor ce Safety Performance
Workforce LT /RD (Emplo yees and Contractors)Workforce TRIR (Emplo yees and Contractors)0.00.20.50.81.01.31.6
1.04
0.631.58
1.12
0.91
0.520.88
0.55
2006 2005 2007 2008Cases per 200,000 hours
The total workforce TRIR remained virtually flat 
from 2007 to 2008 primarily due to issues in our 
Exploration and Production business. The industry continued to grow rapidly during the first three 
quarters of 2008 and there was a sector-wide 
shortage of experienced oil field labor. As a result of 22that shortage, less experienced workers were not as 
knowledgeable at avoiding injury. Improved reporting 
processes, including those for contractor incidents, 
have also had an impact on reported performance.
The quality of employee and contractor safety 
performance data continued to improve with consistent reporting protocols and methods 
companywide, including from joint ventures. In 2008 
we began to track process safety performance metrics 
at the corporate level. These metrics were historically 
tracked at the facility level only. This change should 
help establish future improvement targets and allow 
for better benchmarking with industry.
CONTRACTOR SAFETY MANAGEMENT
Contractors accounted for 51 percent of our 
company’s 47 million workforce hours in 2008.  
The majority of contractor hours was logged in Algeria, Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand where 
several expanded or new facilities began production. 
U.S. Remainder 25%
Algeria  11%
Malaysia/ Thailand 8%Indonesia 14%U.S. Retail 30%
U.K. 2%Equatorial Guinea 6%
Remainder (1 1 Countries) 2%
Denmark 1%
Australia 1%2008 W orkfor ce Hours
(47 Million Employee + Contractor Hours)
30%
25%14%11%8%6%2%1%
We continue to work with current contractors to 
improve their safety performance and are screening 
new contractors for safety policies, practices and 
performance that meet our high standards. As a 
result, we are making a thorough review of safety performance histories and management systems to ensure safe work behaviors, the ability to recognize 
hazards, and competency in process safety 
management. Leaders from our operations routinely 
meet with leaders of our contract companies to ensure that our expectations for safety culture and performance are aligned.
The people in our workforce have the right and 
the obligation to stop work that may be unsafe. 
Before a contractor enters a Hess facility, he or she 
must participate in an orientation session at which 
expectations for the use of safe work behaviors  
and site specific procedures are reviewed.  
ExPlORATION AND PRODUCTION
Overall in E&P , total workforce TRIR was 0.60, an 
increase of approximately 30 percent above last 
year and more than our 2008 target, due primarily 
to a higher rate of contractor safety incidents in our 
drilling and new developments activities. 
In E&P , contractor activity accounted for 80 percent 
of the workforce hours and 92 percent of the recordable incidents in 2008. We are implementing 
actions to improve contractor safety performance, 
including use of a formalized contractor engagement 
program and a structured employee on-boarding 
process. Contractor safety will continue to be a 
major area of focus for our organization.
E&P Safety Performance (TRIR)
Employ ee Contractor Workforce0.00.10.20.30.40.50.60.70.8
0.180.53
0.120.54
0.460.45
2006 2007 2008Cases per 200,000 hours0.480.70 0.60
0.24
TRIR Target (W orkforce)
Many operations in our Exploration and Production 
(E&P) business achieved excellent safety results 
during 2008. The Equatorial Guinea operation 23earned the annual Chairman’s Award for Safety 
Excellence for establishing a safety culture that  
has produced clear operational improvement.  
Major accomplishments included safe crane 
change-outs on the Atwood Seahawk drilling rig 
during ongoing operations; the safe inspection and repair of the Ceiba Floating Production, Storage  
and Offloading vessel while in operation, and  
a 90 percent improvement in safe driving behaviors  
while achieving a significant reduction in the cost  
to maintain the vehicle fleet.
The AH001 floating production platform came on-
stream in the North Sea in July 1989. By the end of 
2008 it had operated for more than five years and 
recorded one million person-hours of work without a lost time incident. That performance earned it the E&P President’s Award for Safety Excellence.
In the Gulf of Mexico critical production activities 
returned to operation within six weeks following 
damage by Hurricane Ike.
The Sinphuhorm gas plant in Thailand completed 
a comprehensive Hazard and Operability study 
designed to provide assurance that all operations 
are conducted safely.
Our SonaHess operation in Algeria, Gassi El Agreb, 
implemented a “Structured Improvement Process” 
to build a best-in-class emergency response system 
and more effective safety communications.
DRIVING SAFETY IN E&P
Driving safety is a significant issue for every 
oil company, and Hess is actively involved 
in improving performance in our company 
and throughout the industry. Faced with 
sobering statistics — driving deaths are the 
No. 1 cause of on-the-job fatalities in the 
oil industry worldwide — experts from our 
company and others gathered in 2008 to 
discuss the problem and what companies can do to address it.
Hess helped develop industry-wide guidance 
called the International Association of Oil 
and Gas Producers’ Land Transportation 
Recommended Practice. This common set 
of practices is designed to facilitate safety 
programs with shared goals among oil 
companies and service providers working in fields around the world.In 2008 in our Exploration and Production 
operations, we implemented a worldwide 
driving safety initiative with three key elements: 
driver training, driver monitoring and coaching, 
and smarter trip planning. Developed in our operation in Equatorial Guinea, the effort’s 
positive results prompted a global rollout.
Because drivers typically fall back into pre-
conditioned driving habits about two weeks 
after attending an initial safe driving course, 
ongoing training and coaching is a vital 
component. 
Smart trip planning also leads to safer results. 
The goal is to eliminate unneeded journeys 
and limit the risks on the ones that are taken — another key component of our driver safety 
initiative given that people working in the oil 
exploration and production business log more 
miles than in most other industries.24MARkETING & REFINING
Our Marketing and Refining (M&R) business 
continued to improve its safety performance, driven 
primarily by Retail Operations, which accounts 
for more than 60 percent of the company’s total 
employee hours. Overall, employee TRIR in M&R 
was 1.41, compared to the target of 1.50.  
Retail Operations had its safest year ever recorded. 
Notably, the Long Island/New York City region achieved the best-ever safety performance for a 
Hess retail operation, earning it the M&R President’s 
Award for Safety Excellence. Over the past three 
years the injury rate has decreased nearly 70 
percent, a significant achievement for a region with 
high customer volume, heavy traffic and a wide 
variety of convenience store configurations. 
Terminal Operations achieved marked safety 
improvement in 2008. The Terminal Operations 
Proactive Safety Program made a significant 
impact by positioning all employees to be better 
safety leaders through participation in site safety 
committees, safety training exercises and behavioral safety efforts. These initiatives have resulted in 
Terminal Operations reducing workforce TRIR to 
0.57, a 55 percent improvement over last year and 
consistent with near first quartile performance for this business segment.  
Workforce safety performance in Refining was 
disappointing. The rate of workforce incidents 
increased 50 percent at the Port Reading refining 
facility. Specific initiatives are now underway to 
improve personal safety and continue to strengthen 
the sound process safety management systems  
in place.Retail Operations achieved its best safety performance since 
we began record keeping more than 20 years ago.
M&R Safety Performance (TRIR)
Employe e Contractor Workforce TRIR Target
(Employee)0.00.51.01.52.02.5
2.12
0.141.66
0.441.571.41
2006 2007 2008Cases per 200,000 hour s
1.97
0.431.341.5
SAFETY COMMITTEES
Safety committees are integral to our 
operations around the world. They 
include management, represented and 
non-represented employees. These 
committees have had a positive impact 
on safety performance and operational 
results. Employees as safety leaders 
have also helped drive a positive change 
in our safety culture.
The safety committees develop location-
specific safety goals and objectives 
which, if achieved, can factor into bonus compensation. Some represented employees are eligible to receive extra 
compensation for their efforts as part of a safety committee and also receive 
specialized safety training. Certain of 
our collective bargaining agreements 
include health and safety topics such 
as safety training and incident reporting 
requirements, expectations for accident 
investigation/root cause analysis, and 
safety performance goals. 
Employees working effectively together 
to improve safety helps get everyone 
home safe, everywhere, every day.25HOVENSA 
HOVENSA is a joint venture refinery with Venezuela’s 
national oil company Petroleos de Venezuela 
(PDVSA) on the island of St. Croix in  
the U.S. Virgin Islands. The operation had mixed results in workforce safety performance in 2008 with 
a TRIR 20 percent higher than in 2007, which was  
the safest year since operations began. 
In 2008 HOVENSA implemented the “Safety 
Teams Achieving Results” (STARS) program. This 
program is designed to improve overall personal 
safety performance by improving communication 
between management, supervisors and the general 
workforce. This program serves to reinforce safety 
programs and practices, encourage innovative 
solutions for improving the workplace and enhance 
the overall safety culture.  
Initiatives like the STARS program, along with 
sustained improvement in process safety 
management, are expected to drive continued 
improvements in safety performance.
HOVENSA Safety Performance (TRIR)
Employ ee Contractor
TRIR Target (W orkforce) Total Workforce0.00.20.40.60.81.01.2 1.11
0.380.430.560.52 0.54
2006 2007 2008Case per 200,000 hours0.630.690.63
0.40
PORT READING EMERGENCY  
RESPONSE DRIll
In 2008 as a follow-up to a previous 
tabletop exercise in 2007, Hess participated 
in a full scale emergency response exercise 
at our Port Reading, N.J. refining and terminal facility. We volunteered to host this 
drill as part of our commitment to operating 
safely and making a positive impact in the community. 
This full scale exercise involved more than 
250 public safety specialists representing 
state, county and local agencies, and was 
designed to test multi-agency operational 
and response capabilities and equipment. 
These included fire suppression, emergency 
medical techniques, search and rescue efforts, technical apparatus function and 
rapid resource deployment. 
The exercise strengthened the relationship 
between Hess and area emergency 
providers so they are prepared to work 
cooperatively if a serious incident 
should occur. In addition, the exercise 
demonstrated to both the Hess and agency teams that they have the right equipment 
and training to respond in the  
event of an emergency.Emergency responders drill at  
Port Reading, N.J. facility26
Hawksbill turtle, U.S. Virgin Islands
STRATEGY AND APPROACH
Hess Corporation is committed to operate in 
an environmentally responsible manner while 
helping to meet the world’s growing demand 
for reliable and affordable energy. Our objective 
is to continuously improve our environmental 
performance, managing our facilities in a way that 
protects the resources we share.Our company follows a precautionary approach. We screen our operations and products for 
environmental, safety, health and social risks 
and conduct environmental and social impact 
assessments for major new projects. We also 
monitor the impact of our operations and perform 
enterprise wide data collection and analysis to 
identify opportunities for improvement.Our objective is to continuously improve our environmental 
performance, managing our facilities in a way that protects 
the resources we share.Environmental
Performance27Climate change is a global issue with significant 
consequences for society and the energy industry.  
Hess is committed to responsibly manage our 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from existing 
assets and future developments. Water use, 
biodiversity, air emissions, oil spills, wastewater discharges and solid waste are other environmental matters that we actively manage. The Hess 
Corporation Principles for Operational Excellence 
set expectations for resource conservation and 
pollution prevention for the company’s businesses.
In setting priorities and goals, each of our businesses 
determines the materiality of these issues to its 
unique operation. 
Hess dedicates significant staff and financial 
resources to maintaining compliance with 
applicable laws and regulations and applies  
best management practices and innovation to remediate liabilities. The company’s operations  
are subject to internal and third-party audits to identify any deficiencies and continuously improve 
our environmental performance.ClIMATE CHANGE
Hess supports U.S. climate change legislation that 
treats all affected parties equitably and cost effectively. 
Recent U.S. legislative action on energy efficiency 
and climate change mitigation have the potential to 
encourage innovation, enhance energy security, foster 
economic growth, improve the balance of trade and 
set an example for other countries. 
We encourage the U.S. government to work with 
other countries to reach a global solution to climate 
change that encompasses developed and developing 
countries. We believe that establishing a global 
emissions market will facilitate emissions reductions 
in the most cost effective manner. Our experience 
in the European Union, its trading scheme and 
emissions reduction projects, provide guidance on 
how we manage greenhouse gas (GHG) reductions for our operations in other parts of the world.
Our company recognizes the financial implications, 
risks and opportunities that come with climate 
change. We continue to evaluate a full range of 
options to responsibly manage our greenhouse 
gas emissions. Due to the gradual phase-in of U.S. 
regulations and our geographic distribution of assets, 
we do not anticipate a significant financial impact from carbon regulations during the next five years. 
During 2008 our company’s Climate Change 
Network (CCN), comprised of senior managers and 
specialists from across the company, reviewed 
the implications of various carbon price scenarios; 
examined technology based options for flaring and 
venting reduction, energy efficiency, and carbon 
capture and storage; and developed a strategy and goals for minimizing our carbon footprint.  The Hess 
Leadership Team recently approved a seven point 
plan for addressing the company’s climate change 
challenges and opportunities.
North Dakota field operations28ClIMATE CHANGE STRATEGY
As part of Hess Corporation’s climate 
change strategy, the company will:
•   Establish and publicly communicate 
a five-year GHG emissions intensity 
reduction target.
•   Account for the cost of carbon in all significant future investment decisions.
•   Evaluate industry best practices when designing production facilities to minimize emissions.
•   Reduce flaring in Algeria and Equatorial Guinea by 50 percent 
over the next five years.
•   Implement a corporate-wide energy efficiency program focused on major 
combustion sources and greater use 
of renewable resources.
•   Purchase at least 10 percent of annual 
electricity for our operations from 
renewable sources.
•   Through our Green-E program, offer our Energy Marketing customers a 
full suite of products to help them 
minimize their carbon footprints.
GREENHOUSE GAS PERFORMANCE
Our major direct sources of greenhouse gas 
emissions are flaring, venting and fuel combustion. 
We also generate indirect emissions as a result of 
our purchases of electricity and natural gas. The 
company tracks direct and indirect GHG emissions on both a Hess operated and a Hess net equity 
basis. In addition to reporting GHG emissions 
from our operations, this year we are including an 
estimate of emissions associated with the end use 
of our refined petroleum products.Hess Operated Emissions    In 2008 we integrated our Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area (JDA) 
into our Hess operated GHG emissions reporting 
because it is a major source of emissions and the 
data quality has improved. With the inclusion of 
JDA, our total GHG emissions from operated assets 
increased from 6.4 million tonnes carbon dioxide 
equivalent (CO
2e) in 2007 to 11.3 million tonnes 
CO2e in 2008; emissions without JDA decreased 
slightly to 6.3 million tonnes CO2e. Emissions related 
to direct transportation from operated assets were 
11 thousand tonnes of CO2e.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions (CO2e)
GHG (e xcl. JDA) Norm alized GHG JDA024681012
1012141618202224
2006 2007 2008GHG
(Million Tonnes )
Emission Rate
(tonnes/1,000 boe)13.1414.9923.15
5.366.40 6.305.00
Venting 31%
Fuel Comb ustion 26%Flaring 36%
Other 2%Indirect Emissions 5%31%36% 26%5%Operated Gr eenhouse Gas Emissions by Sour ce
(11.3 Million tonnes - CO2e)
2%
Some of the JDA gas fields have naturally occurring 
high levels of carbon dioxide (CO2) which is co-
produced with the natural gas.  This CO2 is currently 
vented; as a result, the GHG emissions intensity of our operations increased from 15 tonnes CO
2e 29per thousand barrels of oil equivalent (BOE) in 2007 
to 23 tonnes CO2e per thousand BOE in 2008. 
We are taking both short and long-term actions 
to reduce CO2 emissions from JDA. Currently 
we are staging well development to reduce 
CO2 concentrations in our production stream. 
Longer term, together with the Malaysia/Thailand 
authorities, we have been conducting joint studies 
to examine a wide range of CO2 management 
technologies including CO2 enhanced hydrocarbon 
recovery and subsurface CO2 sequestration.  
A post-2012 Kyoto climate and carbon policy 
framework will have a significant impact on the 
commercial and political viability of carbon capture 
and sequestration.
The company also undertook two major projects 
in 2008 with the goal of enhancing natural gas 
production while reducing GHG emissions. At Gassi El Agreb in Algeria, SonaHess, a joint 
venture between SonaTrach and Hess, completed 
construction and began startup of a major gas 
compression reinjection project. In addition, our 
Equatorial Guinea operations implemented a gas lift, injection and storage project. Combined, these two projects are projected to reduce flaring from these 
two assets by 50 percent over the next five years.Hess Net Equity Emissions     In 2008 our net 
equity emissions were estimated to be 10.8 million 
tonnes CO
2e, a 12 percent increase compared to 
2007. This is due to the JDA Phase II development coming on-line, which significantly expanded gas 
production at this joint venture.
Net Equity Gr eenhouse Gas Emissions  (CO2e)
024681012
2007 2008GHG (Million Tonnes)
0
Hess E&P
Samara Naft aHess M&R
SonaHess JVJDA JV
HOVENSA JV
Non-Operated E&P9.610.8
We began quantifying GHG emissions from our 
net equity (financial) interests in 2007. This was a 
complicated process as we have net equity interests 
in various projects around the world that are 
operated by other companies. We believe our net 
equity emissions are a more meaningful measure of 
our total carbon footprint. During 2008 we worked 
with an industry benchmarking group to improve 
and standardize the estimation process.  
The majority of our net equity emissions are 
concentrated in a select group of countries where 
we have significant upstream and downstream 
operations. These include the United States 
Equatorial Guinea, Algeria, the United Kingdom, 
Malaysia and Thailand. Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area
30JDA 23%
USA 16%USVI 25%
Equator ial Guinea 12%
Other Countr ies (<2% each)   9%
Alger ia 8%Hess Net Equity GHG Emissions by Country
(10.8 Million tonnes CO2e)
Other Countries
Australia 1.80%
Azerbaijan 1.20%
Denmar k 1.00%
Indonesia 1.10%
Libya 1.30%
Norw ay 1.20%
Russia 1.40%UK 5%
Thailand 2%12%
16%23%25%
9%8%5%2%
CARBON CAPTURE AND  
SEqUESTRATION
Hess is a partner in the Snøhvit 
carbon sequestration project operated 
by StatoilHydro, which was part of 
a development plan to recover the 
resources from three natural gas fields 
off the coast of Norway in the Barent 
Sea. Natural gas is piped to an onshore 
gas processing plant where CO2 is 
recovered and returned via pipeline 
for sequestration in the subsurface. 
This project has provided Norway with 
access to natural gas resources while 
meeting its obligations under the  
Kyoto protocol.
End-Use Product Emissions     For the first 
time, we are providing estimated GHG emissions 
associated with the end-use of our fuels andother products, commonly referred to as “Scope 3” emissions. The U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency (EPA), in its draft Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases rule published April 10, 2009, 
proposed end-use product reporting. However, 
there is currently no established methodology for calculating end-use product emissions. 
In developing our estimated Scope 3 emissions, we 
benchmarked the methodologies used by the few 
companies within our industry that have reported 
these emissions. We then adopted a similar approach 
using product sales and EPA emissions default 
factors to arrive at an estimate of 78 million tonnes 
of CO
2e emissions. We anticipate that in the next 
few years more standardized approaches and widely accepted methodologies will emerge.
Petroleum 
ProductAnnual Sales  
Volume*GHG  
Factor #CO2 
(MM Tonnes)
Gasoline   85,644,000      0.37            31.7
Diesel   52,338,000      0.43             22.5
Residual Oil   20,496,000      0.49            10.0
Natural Gas 258,982,698 0.05302            13.7
TOTAl            77.9Estimated CO2 Emissions from Petroleum Products Sold
Notes:
*  Annual Sales for liquid fuels in bbls*  Annual Sales for natural gas in MM Btu#  GHG factors in CO
2 Tonnes/bbl. for liquids and Tonnes/MM 
Btu for gas based on EPA proposed rule for Mandatory GHG 
Reporting; table MM-1
 
ENERGY USE AND EFFICIENCY
We track companywide energy use and have 
initiated energy conservation and efficiency 
programs in our operations. We provide customers in 17 states with energy efficient and renewable 
energy based products and services and continue to 
commercialize Nuvera fuel cell systems.
Energy Use     In 2008 our company’s energy 
consumption totaled 52.2 PetaJoules from direct 
and indirect sources. 31We use fuel generated by our own operations for direct 
energy and purchase electricity and natural gas for indirect energy. The increase in energy use between 2007 and 2008 was due primarily to the start-up of the Gassi El Agreb gas compression and reinjection project and the inclusion of JDA in our reporting.
For the second consecutive year, Hess purchased 
100,000 megawatt hours of Green E-certified 
renewable energy certificates to achieve our target of 
10 percent of electricity use from renewable sources.
2006 2007 2008  
without JDA        with JDA
Direct 32.6 34.7 36.3 42.9
Indirect 8.9 9.4 9.3 9.3
Total 41.5 44.1 45.6 52.2
Percent Change, 2007 - 2008 +3% +18%Energy Use (PetaJoules)
•  2006 and 2007 total energy use are restated
•   Indirect energy data were calculated based on the amount 
of energy required by the power company to provide the net purchased electricityEnergy Efficiency Initiatives     Within our 
Marketing and Refining (M&R) business, energy 
efficiency initiatives were implemented across Retail 
Marketing and at its headquarters in Woodbridge, 
N.J. These energy conservation measures enabled 
Hess to meet customers’ fuel and convenience needs 
while conserving enough electricity to power 2,700 
homes.
Retail Marketing employees replaced more than 
100,000 light bulbs at more than 861 Retail 
locations with energy efficient, longer life models. 
Energy Management Systems were installed in 
60 convenience stores to automatically control 
and optimize lighting levels, air conditioning and 
heating equipment, refrigerator temperatures and 
appliance usage. Employees also encouraged 
vendors to alter work practices that have an 
impact on energy consumption. These Retail Marketing energy efficiency initiatives accounted 
for a reduction of 22.5 million kWh in purchased 
electricity in 2008, a decrease of more than 10 
percent compared with 2007.  
We installed energy efficient interior lighting along 
with motion sensors that automatically turn off 
lights in unoccupied rooms at our Woodbridge office 
facility. In addition, comfort cooling and heating systems were upgraded. We expect an approximate 
5 percent reduction in the building’s electricity 
usage in 2009 as a result of these improvements.A running tally of CO2 emissions avoided by customers  
purchasing green power from Hess Energy Marketing can 
be found at www.hessenergy.com
Retail employees play a key role in energy conservation32Hess Energy Marketing     In 2008 Hess Energy 
Marketing began providing commercial and 
industrial customers with the Hess “Green Suite”  
of sustainable energy options. These include Demand Response, Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) and 
the C-Neutral program. 
With Hess Demand Response, commercial 
customers receive monthly payments when they 
commit to curtail between five and ten percent of 
their electric power usage for a short time should 
the regional power grid be stressed and overloaded. 
This program improves grid reliability and decreases 
the need for new power plant construction. Our company’s Woodbridge office and Baltimore Terminal are Demand Response participants.
Green-E RECs, purchased through Hess, support 
the development of U.S. renewable energy sources. 
Customers can make their energy usage carbon 
neutral by using Hess C-Neutral, which bundles the 
power purchases with offset credits.
“ Hess Demand Response is a win-win for 
us. We are compensated for reducing the 
electricity load and the meter system has 
shown us how we can decrease overall 
kilowatt hours which are significantly reducing 
our carbon footprint. And now we’re looking 
into using the revenue we get from Hess to 
buy green power for the campus.”
–  Xavier Rivera, Georgetown University 
(Washington, D.C.) utility director
Nuvera Fuel Cells     Nuvera Fuel Cells, a 
wholly-owned subsidiary of Hess with locations 
in Massachusetts and Italy, is a global leader in 
the development of fuel cell systems and fuel 
processors for industrial vehicles and equipment, as 
well as automotive and transportation applications. 
Nuvera’s mission as a clean energy conversion 
business is to create and develop innovative 
technology solutions for power systems, to design and 
develop power systems focused on end use customer needs, and to manufacture, market and service 
power system products delivering value to 
customers. In 2008 Nuvera made advancements 
in the development and commercialization of 
hybrid fuel/battery systems for forklift trucks. The commercialization of the PowerTap™ onsite hydrogen generator and dispensing system 
installations also progressed. Information on  
these products and Nuvera’s development  
projects can be found at www.nuvera.com.
NATURAl RESOURCE USE
Hess carefully manages its use of natural resources, 
such as water and raw materials. We look for 
opportunities to reduce usage by improving the 
efficiency of our operations and replacing fresh water 
and virgin materials with recycled and regenerated options, in addition to other substitutions.
Material Use     Responsible material use is one 
way Hess minimizes its environmental footprint. 
Our Port Reading refining facility has successfully 
incorporated the use of recycled and regenerated 
materials, including catalyst and sulfuric acid, into 
key unit operations. Spent acids and caustics are 
also used for pH control at the wastewater treatment plant, reducing the need to purchase virgin water 
treatment chemicals.
Water Use     In 2008 our company used 54 million 
barrels of fresh water for processing, cooling, and 
oil and gas reservoir management, including about 
70 percent from groundwater wells, 30 percent 
Nuvera Fuel Cells is a global leader in hydrogen  
fuel cell technology
Nuvera Fuel Cells is a global leader in hydrogen  
fuel cell technology33from municipal sources and less than one percent 
from surface water. Municipal water consumption 
at our Retail stores and Terminal operations has not 
been included in our calculation of total water use. 
We have recently implemented enhancements to 
improve the reliability of our data collection efforts in those areas and will report these in the future.
The company’s municipal water use decreased by 
14 percent between 2007 and 2008. Conservation 
measures included the replacement of a portion of 
our municipal water consumption with the use of 
process water at Port Reading’s wet gas scrubber 
and with storm water at the Pangkah Gas Plant. 
In 2008, groundwater use increased 60 percent 
from 2007 because of new construction activities at our West Texas facilities. No water sources were 
identified as being significantly affected by the 
company’s water consumption.
Fresh W ater Use
Groundw ater/Surf ace Municipal0102030405060
2007 2008MIllion Barrels16.7
24.014.3
39.4
HOVENSA met most of its water needs through 
onsite desalination of sea water supplemented by 
groundwater. In 2008 groundwater consumption 
was 3.2 million barrels, 38 percent less than the 5.2 
million barrels used in 2007.
AIR EMISSIONS
In addition to greenhouse gas emissions, our 
operations generate other types of air emissions.
Criteria Pollutants     Power generation and flaring 
activities result in emissions of sulfur oxides (SOx) 
and nitrogen oxides (NOx). Flaring, product loading, 
and fuel dispensing activities are the principal sources of emissions of non-methane volatile organic 
compounds (VOCs). Between 2007 and 2008, normalized emissions of SOx increased five percent, primarily due to increased gas plant flaring, while absolute emissions increased from 2,598 to 3,126 
tonnes. Normalized NOx emissions decreased 
seven percent, as fewer wells were drilled, while absolute emissions increased from 11,300 to 11,980 tonnes. Normalized VOC emissions were reduced by 20 percent, as the Algeria Gassi El Agreb gas compression reinjection project came on line, while absolute emissions decreased from 33,115 to 30,163 tonnes. 
Over the past five years emissions intensity has 
trended down about 11 percent for SOx, 26 percent for NOx, and 29 percent for VOCs.
Criteria Pollutant Emissions (normalized)
NOX (tonnes/100,000 boe) VOC (tonnes/100,000 boe)
SO2 (tonnes/million boe)012345678910
2008 2007 2006
Ozone-depleting substances     Refrigeration, air 
conditioning, and fire suppression and explosion protection are the primary uses for ozone-depleting substances (ODSs). In the U.S., Hess uses certified technicians to service and maintain equipment containing Class I and Class II refrigerants, as well as to record refrigerant consumption. We are not aware af any material instances of ODS releases from operated assets in 2008.
SPIllS
Hess produces, processes, refines, transports and sells oil and gas products from our various assets around the world. During each of these activities, spills can occur that can potentially impact the environment. Our operations have controls in place to prevent spills, including equipment inspection 34and preventive maintenance programs, secondary 
containment and alarm systems and spill response and mitigation plans. These help us identify and correct the root causes of spills, react appropriately and prevent recurrences. 
We track two categories of spills: oil spills and 
other spills. Oil spills are tracked and aggregated company-wide on a monthly basis and reported to the Hess Leadership Team.
Oil Spills     In 2008 there were 121 crude oil and 
refined petroleum fuel spills that totaled 1,039 barrels of oil. Sixty-four percent of the spills were less than one barrel and 89 percent were land spills that were readily contained and cleaned. There were 13 spills to surface water totaling 724 barrels, including one major spill of 690 barrels of crude from Denmark’s South Arne platform.
The spill at the South Arne platform occurred in 
early December while offloading through the Single Anchor Loading (SAL) system. We promptly ceased transfer operations and flushed the residual crude in the SAL system back to the platform. A remotely operated underwater vehicle was deployed to inspect the SAL system and identified a hole in a SAL hose, which was replaced. A root cause investigation and forensic analysis of the failed  
hose was undertaken.
Oil Spills
Volume of Oil Spills (b bls)
Number of Oil Spills (#)0400800120016002000
2008 2007 2006NUmber of Oil Spills
(#)
Volume of Oil Spill s
(bbls)
050100150
31,455
4581,039115129121
Other Spills     The company uses a wide range 
of liquids in our operations. In the category “other 
spills,” we include drilling fluids, hydraulic and 
lubricating oils, acids and caustics, and oil/water mixtures. In 2008 there were 56 spills (including 14 
also counted in the oil spill category); 95 percent 
of these were on land, including seven of the eight 
spills of more than 100 barrels. At our Global Drilling 
operation in Equatorial Guinea, one significant spill occurred offshore when 280 barrels of drilling fluid were released due to a pump failure. 
DISCHARGES
Regulatory authorities allow several major types of discharges including wastewater effluent and stormwater runoff from upstream and downstream operations and produced water, drill cuttings and drilling fluids associated with upstream operations.
Offshore Discharges     Drill cuttings consist of rock 
fragments removed from the subsurface as a well is drilled. Drilling mud is used to lubricate drill bits and control downhole pressure; some residual drilling mud adheres to the drill cuttings and contains small amounts of oil. In 2008 approximately 38,000 barrels of drill cuttings and 16,000 barrels of drilling mud containing 441 barrels of oil were discharged from offshore facilities.
Produced water is mainly salty water trapped in 
reservoir rock and co-produced with oil and gas. 
In 2008 140 million barrels of produced water were discharged. The level of oil in produced water averaged 21 parts per million (ppm), well below the Booms are used as a precaution during on- or off-loading
35accepted regulatory limit of 30 to 40 ppm. Produced 
water discharges contained 2,969 barrels of oil; our JDA operation accounted for 57 percent of this. Without JDA, there was an eight percent increase in the volume of oil discharged offshore between 2007 and 2008.
Oil in Pr oduced W ater Discharges to Sea
Oil Volume in Produced Water excl. JDA (bbls)
Oil Concentration in Produced Water (ppmV)Oil Volume in Produced Water – JD A (bbls)0500100015002000250030003500
2008 2007 2006Oil Volume in Produced Water
 (bbls)
Oil Concentration in Produced Water
 (ppmV)
0510152025
1,4091,193 1,28317
1521
1,686
Onshore Discharges     Onshore exploration and 
production generated approximately 102 million barrels of produced water, of which 38 percent was reinjected for disposal and 62 percent was reinjected for reservoir management. No produced water was discharged to surface water.
In the U.S., wastewater and stormwater discharges 
to surface water are permitted under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System. Facility specific effluent quality requirements are established based on expected control technology performance and aquatic protection. Overall, 88 percent of gas plant and 99 percent of terminal and refinery stormwater and wastewater discharges complied with permit requirements. Port Reading and HOVENSA discharged 6.5 million and 11.1 million barrels of treated wastewater, respectively. Both Port Reading and HOVENSA discharges were well within permitted effluent limits.Refinery Wastewater Emissions
Emissions (tons) Port Reading HOVENSA
2006 2007 2008 2006 2007 2008
Biochemical 
Oxygen  
Demand (BOD)1.3 2.9 8.1 187.0 171.2 124.5
Suspended Solids5.5 4.4 6.4 309.9 283.8 293.9
Hydrocarbons 0.9 1.9 5.1 79.1 36.2 33.1
SOlID W ASTE
In 2008, 98 percent of the solid waste generated 
by our operations was classified as non-hazardous 
and the majority of waste was reused or recycled.  
Typical upstream and downstream wastes include 
construction waste, oily tank bottoms, contaminated 
soil, spent acids and caustics, used catalyst and 
scrap metal and wood. Spent acid was regenerated 
for reuse, spent caustic was shipped to paper plants 
for process use, and used catalyst was reprocessed and recycled in cement plants. 
Hazardous waste generation increased to two 
percent of the total waste volume compared to 
one percent in 2007, primarily due to the cleanout 
of Port Reading’s wastewater treatment plant 
equalization tank. Between 2006 and year end 2008, 
total waste decreased 42 percent.
Waste Generation
Nonhazardous Hazardous050,000100,000150,000200,000
0.18
2007 2006 2008Tons193,420577
108,3041,188
110,9532,490In 2008, 98 percent of the waste generated by our 
operations was classified as non-hazardous and the 
majority of waste was reused or recycled.36Landf arm 17% Wastewater treatment 12%Landfill 12% Reuse/recycle 59%2008 W aste Management Methods
59%
17%12%12%
In both 2007 and 2008 approximately 11 tons  
of spent catalyst, considered hazardous waste 
under the terms of the Basel Convention, were 
exported from the U.S. to Belgium for precious 
metals recovery.
In 2008 HOVENSA generated 11,155 tons of 
nonhazardous waste and 6,829 tons of hazardous 
waste, accounting for 62 percent and 38 percent of 
the total amount of waste respectively. HOVENSA reused or recycled 89 percent of hazardous waste 
and 57 percent of nonhazardous waste. Total waste 
volume decreased 21 percent between 2006 and 2008.
BIODIVERSITY
As a global energy company, we face the challenge 
of conducting local operations in a manner that 
protects habitats with significant biodiversity value. 
Precautionary Approach     We conduct 
biodiversity screening for major new projects as 
part of early site evaluation and selection and 
follow this with environmental baseline surveys 
and environmental and social impact assessments (ESIAs). We use the best available guidelines and 
tools, such as those developed by the Energy and 
Biodiversity Initiative, the Wildlife Conservation 
Society, the International Union for Conservation 
of Nature (IUCN) and the International Petroleum 
Industry Environmental Conservation Association to assess and manage biodiversity sensitivities. 
ESIAs are performed by experienced third-party 
consultants in accordance with local requirements, as well as International Finance Corporation/World Bank guidance and include oil spill vulnerability mapping. The findings are considered in final site selection and project design and addressed in environmental management plans. The ESIAs include screening of flora and fauna against the IUCN Red List, as well as local and national threatened and endangered species lists. We do not currently operate in any IUCN designated protected areas.
Hess continued to use a precautionary approach 
as part of exploration activities offshore Ghana. 
In 2007 when we performed 2D and 3D seismic surveys, we followed Joint Nature Conservation 
Committee Guidelines (JNCC) for minimizing acoustic 
disturbances to marine mammals and employed JNCC certified Marine Mammal Observers. We 
continued these practices in early 2008 when we 
conducted a controlled source electromagnetic 
survey, which is considered to have lower impacts to marine mammals than seismic surveys.
Urban Biodiversity     In the U.S., master plans are 
being developed to guide ecosystem restoration of highly urbanized estuaries under the EPA’s National Estuary Program and similar state programs. These are long term, multi-stakeholder initiatives that allow the whole region to work together on common restoration goals and habitat improvement We routinely conduct biodiversity screening for major new 
projects as part of early site evaluation and selection.37efforts. Hess operations with deepwater and barge 
access are located on several of these designated 
estuaries, including the New York-New Jersey 
Harbor, Long Island Sound, the Delaware River, 
Tampa Bay and the Elizabeth River. 
The Port Reading facility, our terminals and 
the HOVENSA refinery have facility specific 
integrated contingency plans (ICPs). These are 
comprehensive emergency response plans that 
address EPA, U.S. Coast Guard, U.S. Department 
of Transportation, and Occupational Safety and 
Health Administration requirements. Each facility 
ICP includes a vulnerability analysis with biodiversity 
as one of the key criteria, which identifies sensitive 
environments that could be at risk from a petroleum spill. Customized protection plans have been 
documented for sensitive environments that take 
into account the ecosystem, any federal and 
state listed threatened or endangered species, 
surrounding land use, accessibility, and physical 
factors such as tidal range, current, water depth  
and wave action. 
Sheltered tidal flats and marshes have been identified 
as having the highest biodiversity value for most of 
our facilities located near or adjacent to marine bays 
and estuaries. Within each facility ICP , these habitats 
have priority protection ranking in the event of a spill.
HOVENSA and Wildlife Protection     St. Croix, 
U.S. Virgin Islands is home to a large variety of 
marine and terrestrial wildlife. For more than ten 
years HOVENSA has assisted natural resource agencies such as the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service, 
the National Park Service, the Cooperative Fish 
and Wildlife Research Unit of the U.S. Geological 
Survey and the Virgin Islands Division of Fish and 
Wildlife, in monitoring, protecting and rescuing 
local, national and international endangered and 
threatened species.
The least tern is listed as an endangered species by 
the U.S. Virgin Islands Indigenous and Endangered 
Species Act of 1990 and is also protected under the federal Migratory Bird Treaty Act. Each year 
approximately 400 pairs of least terns nest within 
the boundaries of the refinery. HOVENSA protects 
the nesting birds, eggs and chicks from human 
disturbance and predation from feral dogs. The 
refinery also provides wildlife researchers access to conduct surveys. Results indicate that the colonies nesting within the refinery fenceline have some of 
the highest reproductive success on St. Croix.
HOVENSA has hosted bird rescue training through 
a contract with Tri State Bird Rescue for local 
and federal wildlife agencies, as well as local 
veterinarians and nonprofit environmental groups. 
The refinery stockpiles wildlife rescue equipment 
for its own and others’ use, as needed. Training includes the handling, rescue, medical treatment 
and rehabilitation of wildlife in the event of an oil 
spill. During 2008 the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service 
called on refinery personnel and equipment to 
assist in the rescue and rehabilitation of a critically 
endangered hawksbill turtle. HOVENSA also 
provided funding to the West Indies Marine Animal 
Research and Conservation Service in its efforts 
to sustain and protect leatherback, hawksbill and green turtles.
Least tern nesting areas are protected on HOVENSA 
Refinery grounds38PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
Our company makes, stores, blends, distributes, 
and sells refined petroleum products to the U.S. 
market. Primary products include reformulated 
gasoline, conventional gasoline, ultra-low sulfur 
diesel fuel and heating oil. These are managed in 
bulk throughout the product life cycle and thus no 
packaging materials are utilized, except for a small 
quantity of Hess branded oils and fluids for retail 
customer purchase. 
The U.S. EPA’s 1995 Reformulated Gasoline (RFG) 
program and 2007 Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) 
heavily regulate gasoline formulations. Ethanol is the 
designated renewable fuel under the RFS program. 
The EPA also has an ultra low-sulfur diesel (ULSD) 
requirement to reduce emissions from diesel-
powered vehicles.  
The Port Reading and HOVENSA facilities doubled 
their production of ethanol/gasoline blends from 
36 percent in 2006 to 72 percent in 2008. Hess 
meets or exceeds all RFG, RFS and ULSD program 
requirements.
The EPA has reported decreases in tailpipe emissions 
of toxic and smog forming compounds and 
improvements in air quality under the RFG program.  The agency also has projected nationwide increases 
in smog forming compounds and decreases in carbon 
monoxide, carbon dioxide and toxic emissions under 
the RFS program (www.epa.gov/otaq). 
The RFG program mandated the use of oxygenates 
in gasoline to improve air quality in non-attainment 
areas. Hess, like other refiners, used methyl tertiary-
butyl ether (MTBE) to meet this requirement. Hess is one of many oil and gas companies that have 
been party to lawsuits and claims related to historic 
MTBE use as detailed in our annual SEC 10-K filing. 
The company no longer makes or sells gasoline that 
contains MTBE.ENVIRONMENTAl ExPENDITURESHess spent approximately $15 million at its facilities 
in 2008 to comply with federal, state and local 
environmental standards other than for low sulfur 
fuel requirements.
The company conducts remediation as necessary 
at sites where our activities or those of previous 
owners have resulted in soil and groundwater 
contamination. These sites include gas stations, terminals, onshore exploration and production 
facilities, and refineries. Hess Corporation accrues 
for remediation expenses when the future costs 
are probable and reasonably estimable. These 
reserves are routinely audited and are expected to 
adequately cover costs to assess and remediate 
known sites. In 2008 the company’s reserve for its 
estimated environmental liability was approximately 
$61 million and remediation spending was approximately $23 million.
In 2008 the company initiated the Hess Remediation 
Alliance. Alliance members, including Hess and our 
key remediation contractors, are working together 
to develop innovative, cost effective, and efficient 
environmental liability management solutions.
The application of green remediation techniques is 
an important aspect of the company’s approach. 
Hess has used off-grid solar and wind-powered 
groundwater remediation equipment on an ongoing 
basis at several locations. Hess is working jointly 
with five other parties to recover hydrocarbons 
as part of a remediation project at the former St. 
Croix Alumina plant in St. Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands.  
The project was included as a case study for 
renewable energy systems in the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s April 2008 technology primer, 
Green Remediation: Incorporating Sustainable 
Environmental Practices into Remediation of Contaminated Sites.
Beginning in 2005 our company incorporated 
phytoremediation — the use of plants to clean 
up pollution — as part of  groundwater and soil 39cleanup activities at our Chesapeake Terminal.  
Located on the Elizabeth River in Virginia, the site 
was contaminated with creosote from historic wood 
treatment operations well before Hess purchased 
the property. To date, we have planted 1,200 trees, as well as native grasses and wildflowers, re-
established habitat for wildlife and reduced the risk 
of contaminated groundwater and runoff discharges 
to the Elizabeth River.
ElIzABETH RIVER PROJECT
The Elizabeth River Project, begun in 
1991 as a nonprofit grassroots effort 
to clean up the Elizabeth River, now 
includes industries, citizens, and local, state and federal government 
agencies working together to 
remediate the river and its shorelines. 
Former U.S. EPA administrator 
Christine Todd Whitman has called 
the Elizabeth River Project the model 
for voluntary partnerships between 
government, businesses and citizens to achieve real environmental results.
Phytoremediation at Hess facility, 
Elizabeth River, Chesapeake, V a.lEGAl PROCEEDINGS
Hess Corporation routinely provides current 
information on environmental legal matters relating 
to the company’s wholly owned and joint venture 
operations and legacy liabilities in SEC forms 10-K 
and 10-Q.  The status of legal proceedings at the 
end of 2008 is detailed in Item 3 of the company’s 
2008 SEC 10-K form. This information is also 
available to the public on the company’s Web site,  
www.hess.com. 
Exceedances and Enforcement Actions
Company policy reinforces our fundamental 
commitment to full compliance with applicable 
environment, health and safety laws and regulations.  
While compliance is our objective, exceedences 
of permitted levels can occur, as do citations from 
regulatory authorities.  
During 2008 the total of fines paid was 
approximately $1.2 million, of which $1.1 million 
was related to the resolution of an enforcement 
action brought against the company in 2001. As a 
result, monetary penalties paid in 2008 exceeded 
the $79,000 penalties paid in 2007 and the $188,000 
paid in 2006.40
Safety support at South Arne Platform,  
Danish North Sea
STRATEGY AND APPROACH
Hess is committed to attracting, energizing, developing  
and retaining a highly talented, diverse workforce that 
is capable of delivering strong business results.
We value individuals with outstanding technical, 
professional and administrative skills who work well 
in a collaborative environment, make an extra effort 
to ensure success, act with a social conscience and 
demonstrate an entrepreneurial, independent spirit.
We provide equal employment opportunity to 
all employees and job applicants regardless of race, color, religion, sex, age, sexual orientation, creed, national origin or disability. All terms and 
conditions of employment, including compensation 
and opportunity for advancement, are based on 
qualifications and job performance.
We recognize and respect our employees’ right to join 
associations and choose representative organizations for the purpose of engaging in collective bargaining 
in a manner that is consistent with applicable laws, 
rules, regulations and appropriate local customs.We value individuals with outstanding skills who work well 
in a collaborative environment.Global
Workforce41OVERVIEW
Hess employed 12,432 people around the world 
in 2008, and supported another 1,479 people 
who worked in refining and energy trading joint 
ventures, a three percent increase from 2007 
levels. The vast majority of employees, 91 
percent, worked in the U.S. Twenty-six percent 
of employees were part-time and 66 percent 
were hourly. The majority of part-time and hourly 
employees worked at Retail locations. 
U.S. Non Retail 3,404Intern ational locations 1,117 U.S. Retail 7,911Global Employees
(12,432 Employees)
64%27%
Africa 296
Europe 379     
Southeast Asia and Au stralia 428
Other 14<1% 2.4% 3.1% 3.4%Country No. of hires
U.S. (Non Retail) 645
Southeast Asia and Australia 62
Europe 57
Africa 34
Other 3
TOTAl 801Global New Hires (Professional and Executives)
DIVERSITY AND EqUAl OPPORTUNITY
Our company continues to recruit and develop a 
diverse workforce, and creates opportunities for 
those who are qualified to advance and take on more 
responsible positions. Leaders at various levels of 
the company participate in a Talent Management 
process to review the achievements, capabilities and 
potential of their employees and recommend training, 
work assignments and projects that enable them 
to make a significant contribution in their current 
role and prepare them for their future growth. The process moves many employees to other countries, 
cities, locations or positions, and ensures that there 
are qualified candidates for jobs as they become 
available. Women comprise 40 percent of global 
employees. In the U.S., women and minorities respectively make up 43 percent and 37 percent  
of employees.HESS ADVANTAGE
Hess offers a competitive total package that 
is distinctive in four areas:
Compensation and Benefits     Our total 
pay is very competitive and includes the 
opportunity for employees to earn a bonus 
based on performance. We provide a range 
of financial and health benefits so that 
employees and their families can enjoy  
a high quality of life.learning and Development     We invest in our employees’ professional development and 
provide them with challenging and rewarding 
opportunities for career growth.
Work Environment     We provide a safe, 
healthy and productive work environment, and 
foster a culture that reflects our core values.
leadership     Leaders are continually 
challenged so that they have the skills and 
abilities to deliver results in their current and 
future roles.42Age Group (Years) Number Percent
Under 30 3,826 35
30 to 50 4,615 43
Over 50 2,362 22U.S. Employees by Age Group* 
*  Employee numbers are based on the EEOC reporting year 
(July 2007 – June 2008) and differ slightly from 2008 calendar 
year totals.   
EMPlOYEE ENGAGEMENT
In 2008, our company engaged Towers Perrin 
International Survey Research, a third-party 
consultancy, to conduct an anonymous employee 
engagement survey, Voice of Hess. 
Overall, 84 percent of employees responded to 
the survey, four percentage points better than 
the average for high performing companies and a 
two percentage point improvement over our last survey. The survey showed that employees clearly 
understand goals and objectives and are willing 
to work beyond what is required in the job to help 
the company succeed. Employees feel they are 
encouraged to offer innovative solutions to work-
related problems. Compensation, including base salary plus incentives, is perceived to be as good or better than that in other companies.
The formal Voice of Hess process is supplemented 
by ongoing opportunities, including town hall 
meetings, focus groups, direct e-mail and comment 
cards. Together, these provide feedback and ideas 
about programs, services, business performance 
and the company’s future direction.
WEllNESS
We have launched a new wellness initiative,Health4Life, in the U.S. to encourage optimal 
employee health. Through Health4Life, Hess 
promotes disease prevention and helps educate 
employees and their families about their health and 
the healthcare system. The focus is on key behaviors:
eat well, move more, don’t smoke, and be safe.
A new medical plan for U.S. employees provides 
in-network preventive medical care at no cost for 
employees and their family members. Well-child visits, immunizations, vaccinations, mammography, 
Pap smears and colorectal cancer screenings are 
among the covered preventive screenings, along with 
smoking cessation counseling and tools.          Women          Minorities
Job Category Total Employees Number Percent Number Percent
Executives and Sr. Officials 76 5 7 5 7
First and Mid-Level Managers 2,279 959 42 584 26
Professionals 1,230 435 35 326 27
Technicians 126 26 21 29 23
Sales Workers 6,066 2,949 49 2,776 46
Administrative Support 407 281 69 138 34
Craft Workers 76 0 0 16 21
Operatives 434 5 1 78 18
Laborers and Helpers 70 2 3 18 26
Service Workers 39 7 18 13 33
TOTAL 10,803 4,669 43 3,983 37U.S. Employee Diversity* 
*  The data in this table are consistent with employee grouping, gender and race/ethnicity categories as designated by the U.S. Equal 
Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC). Employee numbers are based on the EEOC reporting year (July 2007 – June 2008) and differ 
slightly from 2008 calendar year totals.     43WOMEN’S HEAl TH
A major promotional campaign was 
initiated in May for Women’s Health and in June for Men’s Health in partnership with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The top health risks for various ages were profiled, appropriate screenings were recommended and guidelines were provided for having a meaningful discussion with the health care provider. The U.S. government named Hess a Corporate Partner for the Women’s Health effort – the only employer in the oil and gas industry  
to earn that recognition.
“ We found that companies with comprehensive wellness initiatives have over time been able to make a positive impact. We think a similar effort can do the same for us and become another factor in making Hess a great place to work.”
–  John Rielly, Chief Financial Officer and 
Health4Life executive champion
COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS
In 2008 Hess spent nearly $720 million in pay and 
benefits for U.S. employees. Entry-level hourly 
employees were paid on average 10 percent more 
than the local minimum wage in Retail locations, 
and skilled hourly field operations employees earned 
approximately three times the local minimum wage.
In keeping with the company’s “Hess Advantage” 
competitive total package, we compensate all employees based on specific job responsibilities 
and job performance.
Hess has instituted global processes to ensure 
internal fairness and external competitiveness. On an annual basis, employee performance is formally reviewed and calibrated against others in 
like positions, regardless of gender. Additionally, all 
managers are provided benchmarked competitive 
compensation data for their employees, based on job 
responsibilities and geographic location, to enable them to make timely and objective pay decisions.
STANDARD EMPlOYEE BENEFITS  
(U.S. AND U.k.)
•  Company Sick Pay
•  State Disability Pay (if applicable)
•  Vacation and Personal Days
•  Paid Holidays
•  Bereavement and Jury Duty Pay
•  Overtime Pay
•  Employee Assistance Programs
•  Long-Term Disability Insurance
•  Education Assistance
•  Pension Plan
•  401(k)/Savings Plan
•  Medical Plan
•  Dental Plan
•  Vision Plan
•  Flexible Spending Accounts
•  Life Insurance•  Accident Insurance
Note: Union-represented employees are subject to 
Collective Bargaining Agreements; many of these 
benefits are available to part-time and retail hourly 
employees; see SEC 10-K for detailed description of 
defined benefits, pension and other retirement plans.
FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION
Hess employs unionized and non-represented 
employees in hourly classifications. Approximately 
7.5 percent of U.S. employees are represented by 
various unions. Within our Marketing and Refining 
operations, the company has collective bargaining 
agreements in place at the Port Reading facility and 
14 petroleum terminals that cover 61 percent of 
facility personnel. The HOVENSA joint venture has 
two collective bargaining agreements in place that cover 43 percent of its employees. Approximately six 44percent of employees at retail stores are unionized in 
three separate bargaining agreements. Exploration 
and Production’s Danish operations have represented 
workers, but collecting data on the number of 
workers who belong to unions is prohibited by Danish 
law. The company has not identified any operations where the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk.
Terms of notification of major operational changes 
such as layoffs or facility closure are common in 
existing collective bargaining agreements. Should 
such changes occur, the company will notify 
employees in accordance with federal and state 
labor regulations and the terms of the collective 
agreements. Typically locations with 50 or more employees receive 60 to 90 days advance notice 
of major operational changes. The notification 
period for locations with fewer than 50 employees is 
typically two to four weeks, depending on the time 
needed to safely manage the operational change.
EMPlOYEE lEARNING AND DEVElOPMENT
Over the last two years Hess has taken 
significant steps to increase its focus on employee development and career planning. 
The company’s effort to support employees 
includes career pathing, skill building, leadership 
development and performance management.
In 2007 Hess began creating career guides and 
profiles that describe the skills and core competencies 
required of recruits and employees to advance in 
their fields. This project will continue in 2009 with an emphasis on creating training opportunities through 
which employees can gain new skills.
Every professional and executive employee took 
part in the global performance management process 
in 2008, and those who were required completed a 
formal development plan with their supervisor.
A corporate learning strategy was also introduced 
in 2008. It led to the formation of a global council 
that helped guide employee career development efforts. We are building an enterprise-wide structured 
approach to learning that supports employees during 
key transitions, develops leaders, creates partnerships 
with contractors and leverages technology. 
Hess invested $13 million to train employees who 
work in office locations. The company’s investment 
to train operations employees is not centrally 
tracked, but a new system is being put in place 
in 2009 to do so globally. In our Retail operations, hourly employees received an average of four hours of 
training for the year and regional managers received 
14 hours. Non-retail, exempt employees received 
an average of 25 hours of training. In 2008, 421 
Hess and HOVENSA employees took advantage of 
educational assistance programs as they pursued 
advanced degrees.
Forty senior executives from around the world 
participated in focus groups to define the role of 
leaders at Hess, providing the basis for two new 
training programs – Leadership Essentials and 
Business Essentials. More than 230 employees 
participated in these programs, which were held 
during the year in Woodbridge, N.J.; Houston, 
Texas; Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; and London. 
An online Learning Center was piloted in 2008 
with Hess employees around the globe who have 
access to the company’s intranet or the Internet. 
Employee orientation at Hess Marketing and Refining center45The Center offers more than 500 modules on 
general business knowledge, technical and 
functional capabilities, desktop skills, compliance 
issues and Hess topics. 
The Hess Foundation Program continued in 2008 to 
develop young geoscientists, particularly those who 
are beginning their careers with Hess. Nearly 40 employees are taking part in this two-year program that combines intensive mentoring and training 
on real Hess Exploration and Production projects.  
Once through the program, participants take on 
long-term assignments. A similar program is now 
being developed for engineers, covering the basics 
of production, drilling, reservoirs and a general 
engineering orientation at Hess.
WOR kFORCE  lOCA lIzATION  IN 
SOUTHEAST ASIA
Access to skilled, technically proficient 
professionals continues to challenge the 
energy industry. Hess has stepped up efforts to recruit and develop local talent.
Production sharing agreements and 
contracts, which vary by country, typically set requirements for the number and types of positions to be held by local nationals. Hess views these agreements as part of its hiring and employee development platform. Having a workforce that reflects the diversity of the communities in which we operate gives the company insight into the needs and issues of customers and neighbors. It also provides 
a greater diversity of skills, experience and 
culture within our workforce.  
In 2008 the company took an innovative 
approach to recruitment in Southeast Asia as it developed its operations organization to run a number of new production projects.  A campaign invited experienced Malaysians and Indonesians working in the Arabian Gulf to “Come Home to a New Global Career.” A delegation of technical, operations and human resources professionals traveled to the Gulf to conduct a series of presentations in Qatar, Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Oman, highlighting the rewarding new careers possible at Hess assets and developments  
in their home country.More than 600 resumes were added to the Hess database and several professionals were hired as a result of the initiative, which also paved the way for continued recruitment efforts in the region.
Local nationals are assuming more 
responsible roles in significant company operations, including the Hess gas plant in Sinphuhorm, Thailand, which is staffed and led entirely by nationals. The operation marked the second anniversary of its first gas sale in November 2008. Since startup, there have been 150 change proposals from employees, and upgrades are continually being made to improve production and safety. The operation had almost no lost time injuries and a 99.8 percent record of reliability in 2008. It is one of the top performing operations in all of Southeast Asia.
An increasing number of promising 
professionals are being given short-term assignments outside the region to expand their skills and abilities and prepare for more responsible future roles. As a result of a formal, companywide Talent Management process, in 2008, 31 employees from Southeast Asia worked abroad in a variety of areas, including Human Resources, Operations, Exploration, Supply Chain and Environment, Health and Safety.46
Student at Hess supported school, 
Equatorial Guinea
STRATEGY AND APPROACH
We believe that a world-class company achieves both a high standard of operating performance and acts with a social conscience. That is the way we do business. Social Responsibility is one of our six core values and we recognize that as a leading global energy company we have the ability to help make a lasting improvement in the quality of life of the communities where we do business.  The health and well-being of our communities and 
our people are of paramount concern. Before we make a major investment anywhere in the world, we conduct an Environmental and Social Impact Assessment to understand the potential effect of our operations. We partner with host governments, community groups and other stakeholders to develop programs that can make a measurable and sustainable difference.We recognize that as a leading global energy company 
we have the ability to make a lasting improvement in the 
communities where we do business.Community and  
Social Performance47The focus of our support is primarily on making 
measurable advances in education and health  
care, two areas that help determine the long term success of any society. The efforts of our workforce are an important part of our social responsibility mission. Every Hess employee is encouraged to lend time, energy and expertise to community  
based organizations.In 2008 we invested $21 million in social causes around the world, a 29 percent increase over 2007. Of that, 49 percent was spent on education and 12 percent on health. We also contributed $3 million to the Greater Houston Community Foundation to 
support hurricane relief efforts along the Gulf Coast 
of the U.S.
In addition, HOVENSA spent $3.5 million on social 
programs in 2008, with $2.3 million dedicated to 
education and $1.1 million dedicated to community 
projects. The International Craft Training Program, 
which was established in 2007, was the primary 
recipient of these educational funds.
HURRICANE RESPONSE
The 2008 hurricane season was especially destructive. Our company anticipates harsh weather and follows detailed procedures to ensure the safety of our employees and continued service to our customers. In 2008 our planning was tested when the Gulf Coast of Texas and Louisiana was hit by two hurricanes, Gustav and Ike, within two weeks. 
Hess put the safety and well being of our employees  
first. We kept in touch with each of them, 
providing regular condition updates through our emergency notification system, which uses two way communications with voice, text and Internet based systems. Hess offered support through our Employee Assistance Center, including free dining room access, salary continuity during the week of post-hurricane clean up, and no interest loans for those who were most disadvantaged by the storms.
The company and our employees also made 
significant contributions to help others in Houston and the surrounding communities. The company donated $3 million to the Greater Houston Community Foundation, and a special matching gift program was created for employees making personal contributions, matching dollar-for-dollar  
all donations to recognized charities engaged in 
local relief efforts.U.S. 42%
Indonesia 2%Russia 5%Equator ial Guinea 46%
Azerbaijan 1%Thailand 1%
All Others 1%Norw ay 2%46%
42%5%1% 2%2008 Social Investment by Country – $21 Million
Community $3,645Health $2,575
In Kind $1,246
Disaster Relief $3,072Education $10,346
Environment $1752,575
3,072
3,64510,3461752008 T ype of Investment ($ Thousand)
1,24648Even as they struggled personally with damage  
and disruption at their own homes, our people 
reached out to those in greater need, volunteering 
with organizations like the local food distribution centers, the American Red Cross, the United  
Way of Houston, the Salvation Army and their  
local communities.
“ There was a moment, during the worst part 
of the crisis after Hurricane Ike when I got 
a call from one of our biggest corporate 
citizens, the Hess Corporation, about a 
large gift, $3 million, for the Ike Relief Fund. 
I was touched. Houston is about neighbors helping neighbors and this was beyond 
expectations. It was a moment I will never 
forget. We are so grateful.”
– Houston Mayor, Bill White
AlGERIAIn Algeria, Hess has been involved in a number 
of community projects, each chosen because it 
offered long term benefits and was generally aimed 
at helping children. Through one of these projects Hess improved a school building in Ain Hammam, an 
isolated village in the mountains of eastern Algeria.Until recently the school did not have proper 
heating. Hess funded the installation of a central heating system at the school and made other building improvements. The company also provided much needed computers and text books.
Our company has funded upgrades at other 
Algerian schools; built a new house for nine young children and their resident mother at an orphanage; donated wheelchairs to help disabled people; and contributed $45,000 to construct a recreation area at a school for the blind, a project that received national news attention.
Each of these projects began with a suggestion  
from a local community member in Algeria, and  
was closely managed to ensure accountability  
and results.
lIBYA
During 2008 Hess Corporation sponsored a 
comprehensive study of diabetes care and 
prevention in Libya in cooperation with the National 
Oil Corporation. Four of the five most at risk 
nations for diabetes in the world are Arab states in 
the Gulf region.
The Libya study, conducted by Partners Harvard 
Medical International (PHMI), reviewed the status 
of diabetes care and prevention in the country, 
helped identify best approaches leading to 
sustainable improvements in diabetes care, training 
and prevention, and facilitated a national survey 
of diabetes prevalence which was administered 
by the World Health Organization. Contributions 
to the study were made by faculty and experts 
representing Harvard Medical School, Harvard School of Public Health, Joslin Diabetes Center  
and the International Diabetes Federation. 
Through continuing medical education programs 
held in Boston and the Libyan cities of Tripoli 
and Benghazi, Hess helped to train more than 90 
Libyan doctors so they are able to diagnose and treat the disease.
Hess volunteer during Hurricane Ike cleanup  
in Galveston, Texas49“ Hess´ partnership has been a key factor in the 
success of the PROdEGE Program. I have 
seen a keen understanding of development processes and a sincere commitment to 
sustainable change in education in John 
Hess and Hess managers associated with the 
program. The support given by the Hess-
Equatorial Guinea management and staff 
has been outstanding on all counts. National 
involvement and development is foremost in the Hess strategy.”
–  Carmen Siri, national director PRODEGE, 
Equatorial Guinea
The centerpiece of our Corporate Social 
Responsibility program is a large scale effort to transform primary education in the West African nation of Equatorial Guinea.  
The initiative, PRODEGE (Program for 
Educational Development of Equatorial Guinea), is a $40 million public/private partnership led by Hess Corporation and the Government of Equatorial Guinea and implemented by the Academy for Educational Development.In just two years, PRODEGE has established 40 model schools and introduced accelerated course work in basic math, language and science. The schools use an active learning technique that encourages students to build critical thinking skills and learn cooperatively.
Beyond classrooms, the partnership has 
also built latrines and drilled water wells to ensure that students now have safe, potable water and proper sanitation. New classroom furniture is being supplied by local businesses. Thirty-nine of 40 schools targeted for these improvements are now fully operating.
In 2008 PRODEGE launched a national 
teacher diploma course, and more than 1,100 local educators have completed the first year of certification. In addition, three out of five new curriculum modules were completed and published, and the final two will be completed in 2009. A quality teaching laboratory was established and a site was assigned for another. 
The program also designed four teacher 
manuals and implemented its first student guide in 2008. Between the model schools and the diploma course, the program is reaching nearly half of the country’s primary school population.
To help strengthen skills at the Ministry of 
Education, PRODEGE completed the second and third rounds of a national effort to collect data about schools, which included a broad teacher study. Results were used to create a model schools map and three education statistics bulletins that, for the first time, gave supervisors data they can use in planning local education. The first study of teacher development is complete; policy forums are scheduled for 2009.SOCIAl RESPONSIBIlITY IN  
ACTION: PRODEGE
National director of PRODEGE, seated center, with 
teachers in Equatorial Guinea50
UNITED STATES
Earth Science Curriculum
Hess developed a 
curriculum and teachers’ guide, Our Dynamic Earth, about the solar system and the Earth’s geology, in conjunction with the Houston Chronicle. The material was used by 425 Texas elementary and middle school teachers.
ST. lUCIA
World Eye Mission
The company donated $10,000 to help St. Jude Hospital sponsor visits to St. Lucia by world class ophthalmologists. These physicians are screening for and treating glaucoma and retinopathy, both leading causes of blindness.ST. CROIx, U.S. V.I.
Process Technology 
Degree Program
HOVENSA and the 
University of the Virgin Islands jointly developed a new degree program in Process Technology to give students the necessary skills to be employed within area industries.ST. CROIx, U.S. V.I.
Queen Louise Home  
for Children
The HOVENSA Refinery donated $66,000 to fund health and education programs at Queen Louise Home for Children, the only residential facility in the U.S.Virgin Islands serving abused, abandoned and neglected children between the ages of three and 12. UNITED STATES
Home Runs for  
Cancer Research
To support children with 
serious medical needs, Hess donated $500 for every televised Boston Red Sox home run. The Children’s Hospital of Boston’s Trauma Center Program and the Jimmy Fund Dana-Farber Cancer Institute each received $50,000.
UNITED STATES
Volunteers Build  
Computer Lab
Hess employee volunteers 
joined Just Willing Foundation to build a new computer lab and education center for 1,200 students in an area of New Orleans that was still stricken three years after Hurricane Katrina paralyzed the city.
UNITED STATES
Gas Pumps for Rehabilitation
At St. Charles Hospital 
on Long Island, N.Y., Hess installed a model gas pump, specially configured to simulate the flow of gasoline, so patients rehabilitating from strokes and brain damage can practice important everyday tasks.Social Responsibility
Activities51
THAIlAND  
Cattle Bank Project
We provided farmers in 
Nam Phong in the Thai province of Khon Kaen with 120 cows and the formal training necessary to build a sustainable herd of cattle that can eventually be sold at local markets.
AlGERIA  
Orphanage Housing
Hess Corporation invested 
$26,000 to install a heating system, a multi-media room, and desks and chairs at a primary school in the northern Algerian mountain community of Tizi Ouzou. The school supports residents in this town of 85,000.
INDONESIA  
Coastal Management 
Program
Hess is collaborating 
with the Bogor Institute of Agriculture to ensure the conservation and sustainability of coastal areas in Pangkah and nearby Manyar.  The program will restore a natural habitat for fish and prevent erosion.
EqUATORIAl GUINEA  
Water Wells and 
Sanitation
Hess invested $400,000 
to drill 30 water wells and construct latrines at primary schools on Equatorial Guinea’s mainland, giving students a safe, sanitary environment in which to learn and helping to prevent diseases, including cholera.
EGYPT  
Khatawat School 
Scholarships
Hess sponsored 65 
students in a new school at Establ Antar, Egypt. Funding provided impoverished children with a quality education and vocational training. Uniforms, meals, books, a school bus and teacher salaries were also provided.
UNITED kINGDOM  
Inner-City Education 
Initiative
Employees shared expertise 
in managing capital projects, tender processes and contract negotiations to help the Southwark Schools for the Future program improve courses, facilities and safety in its inner-city London neighborhood. RUSSIA
Central School  
District Hospital
ZAO Samara-Nafta 
renovated the wards, doctors’ consulting rooms and procedure units of the hospital in Bolshechernigovsky to improve medical service for citizens living in the Volga-Urals region of the Russian Federation.
DENMARk
Danish Nature Conservation
The company sponsored 
a national program to improve the integrity of small lakes and ponds. More than 230 lakes have been adopted by school classes that work with environmental scientists to study and preserve these environments.52Performance
Data
UNITS 2006 2007 2008
BUSINESS PERFORMANCE
Gross operated production/throughput (normalization factor) 000 BOE/D  1,120  1,171  1,333 
Sales and other operating revenue $ Million  28,067  31,647  41,165 
Net income $ Million  1,920  1,832  2,360 
ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTIONSIncome tax to governments $ Million  1,799  1,826  2,420 
Royalties and other payments to governments $ Million  580  885  891 
Employee wages and benefits (restated) (U.S. only) $ Million  585  654  720 
Recordable spending with suppliers (U.S. only) $ Million  1,929  2,276  2,345 
Recordable spending with small business suppliers (U.S. only) %  37  33 29
Community contributions $ Million  6  16  21 
SAFETY PERFORMANCE
Fatalities - Employees # 0 0 0
Fatalities - Contractors # 0 0 1
Recordable Incident Rate - Workforce per 200,000 hrs worked  1.04  0.91  0.88 
Lost Work Time Incident Rate - Workforce per 200,000 hrs worked  0.41  0.28  0.28 
Workforce hours Million hours  51.20  46.90  47.40 
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
Direct energy use (restated) Peta Joules  32.6  34.7  42.9 
Indirect energy consumption Peta Joules  8.9  9.4  9.3 
Flaring MMscf  27,319  43,956  47,563* 
Operated direct CO2 emissions Million Tonnes  4.66  5.65  10.11* 
Operated Indirect CO2 emissions Million Tonnes  0.506  0.541  0.567 
Operated direct methane emissions Thousand Tonnes  7.06  7.39  26.44* 
Operated direct greenhouse gas emissions Million Tonnes  4.85  5.85  10.70* 
Operated carbon intensity Tonnes GHG/1000 boe  13.14  14.99  23.15* 
Net equity greenhouse gas emissions Million Tonnes  NR  9.61  10.85 
Freshwater use** (restated) Million bbls  NR  40.74  53.67 
Number of oil spills #  115  129  121 
Volume of oil spilled bbls  31,455  458  1,039 
Nonhazardous waste generated Thousand Tons  193.42  108.30  111.00 
Hazardous waste generated Thousand Tons  0.58  1.19  2.49 
EHS fines and penalties $ Thousands  188  79  1,188 
Environmental capital expenditures (excluding low sulfur projects) $ Million  71  22  15 
Remediation expenditures $ Million  15  23  23 
ISO 14001-certified operations #  3  3  3 
GLOBAL WORKFORCENumber of employees #  12,921  12,071  12,432 
Hourly paid employees %  68  67  66 
Part-time employees %  NR  NR 26
International employees %  6.1  8.5  9.0 
Employee turnover (excluding Retail hourly) %  NR  NR  7.3 
Female employees (U.S. and International) %  44  41  40 
Females in management  (U.S. only) %  36  38  40 
Minority employees (U.S. only) %  NR  NR  37 
Minorities in management (U.S. only) %  27  29  26 
Union employees (U.S. only) %  7.1  7.1  7.5 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS DIVERSITYFemale members of the Board % 15 15 15
Minority members of the Board % 8 8 8
Board members in "over 50 years" age group % 100 100 100
* In 2008, data set includes Malaysia / Thailand Joint-Venture (JDA) operation. 
** Freshwater consumption excludes Retail and Terminal Operations.
NR = Not ReportedThis table contains a subset of our publicly reported performance data.  
More is available on our Web site (www.hess.com). 53Core Indicator Additional Indicator IPIECA only ● Fully reported ▲ Partially reportedGRI 
Content Index 
The index refers to the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) G3 indicators on which we have fully or 
partially reported. Some of the information regarding 
these indicators appears in the Web version (H) 
of this report or in the Hess Corporation’s 2008 
Annual Report (A). We also report on dedicated oil and gas industry indicators in accordance with the International Petroleum Industry Environmental 
Conservation Association (IPIECA) and the American 
Petroleum Institute (API) guidelines as well as the 
UN Global Compact Principles (UN).
GRI 
INDICATORGENERAL DESCRIPTION PAGEGRI 
STATUSIPIECA 
INDICATOR
STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS
1.1 Chairman's Letter 2-3 ●
1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 8-9, 27 ●
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE2.1 - 2.9 General information on reporting organization (A) (H) 4-7 ●
2.10 Awards received during reporting period 12, 14, 39 ●
REPORT P ARAMETERS
3.1-3.3,  
3.5-3.8Report period, scope and boundary; materiality determination for content
Inside front cover ●
3.4 Contact point for questions regarding report Inside back cover ●
3.9 Data measurement techniques and bases of calculations 28-29 ●
3.10, 3.11 Explanation of restatements and significant changes 28, 33, 52 ●
3.12 GRI content index 53-55 ●
3.13 External assuranceInside front 
cover, 56●
GOVERNANCE
4.1-4.9Information on highest governance body; internal values, codes of  
conduct and principles (A) (H)11 ●
4.8 Internal values, codes of conduct, and principles (H) 5, 12-13 ●
4.11 The precautionary approach (UN7)    26 ●
4.12 Externally-subscribed or endorsed voluntary initiatives 16-17 ●
4.13 Key memberships and associations 14 ●
4.14-4.17 Stakeholders, types of engagement, key topics and concerns4, 14, 15, 19, 
24, 39, 42, 
46-51●
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
ECDisclosure on management approach to economic performance 19 ●
Disclosure on management approach to market presence 4-7, 19 ●
Disclosure on management approach to indirect economic impacts 46-47 ●
EC1 Direct economic value (A) (H) 19, 43 ●ECO-1 – 
ECO-A3; 
SOC-A4
EC2 Financial implications of climate change (UN7) 27 ●
EC3 Defined benefit plan obligations (A) 43 ●
EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government 19 ●
EC5 Comparison of standard entry level wage with local minimum wage (UN1) 42 ●
EC6 Local supplier spend at significant locations of operation 18 ▲ SOC-A3
EC7 Local hiring at significant locations of operation (UN6) 45 ▲ ECO-3
EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services 46-47 ●
EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts 46-51 ▲54GRI 
INDICATORGENERAL DESCRIPTION PAGEGRI 
STATUSIPIECA 
INDICATOR
ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS (UN8)
EN Disclosure on management approach to environmental aspects (UN7) 26 ●
EN1, EN2 Materials used and percentage recycled input materials (UN9) 32 ●
EN3, EN4 Direct and indirect energy use by primary source 30-31 ● ENV-5
EN5 - EN7 Energy conservation and efficiency initiatives and improvements (UN9) 31-32 ● ENV-5 & A8
EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 32-33 ● ENV-A7
EN9, EN10 Significantly affected water sources and water recycled and reused (UN9) 33 ▲
EN11, EN12 Proximity of protected areas/areas of high biodiversity 36-37 ●
EN13, EN14 Habitats protected or restored and management of biodiversity impacts (UN7) 36-37 ● ENV-A9
EN15 Number of IUCN Red List and national conservation list species 36-37 ▲
EN16, EN17 Total direct and indirect and other relevant greenhouse gas emissions 28-29 ● ENV-3 & 4
EN18 Greenhouse gas reduction initiatives and results (UN7, UN9) 27-28 ●
EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 33 ▲
EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions 33 ● ENV-A6
EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination (H) 34-35 ● ENV-2 & A2
EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 35-36 ●ENV-A3,  
A4 & A5
EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 33-34 ● ENV-1 & A1
EN24 Basel Convention waste management summary 36 ●
EN25 Biodiversity value of receiving waters for water discharges and runoff 35 ●
EN26 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services (UN7, UN9) 38 ●
EN27 Products sold and packaging reclaimed (UN9) 38 ●
EN28 Fines, penalties and noncompliances 39 ●
EN29 Transportation impacts 28, 30 ▲
EN30 Environmental expenditures (UN7, UN9) 38-39 ▲
Environmental management systems 13 ENV-6
LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK
LADisclosure on management approach to employment, labor/management 
relations, training and eduction and diversity and equal opportunity40 ●
Disclosure on management approach to occupational health and safety 20 ●
LA1 Total workforce by employment type, contract and region 41, 52 ●
LA2Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group,  
gender and region (H) (UN6)52 ▲
LA3Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations43 ▲
LA4Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements  
(UN1, UN3)43 ●
LA5 Minimum notice period of significant operational changes (UN3) 43 ●
LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in joint safety committees (UN1) 25 ● H&S-2
LA7Injury, occupation illness, lost days, absenteeism, and fatalities by region  
(UN1) (H)21-23 ▲ H&S-4
LA8Programs to assist workforce, their families and communities with serious diseases (UN1)42 ● H&S-3
LA9 Health and safety topics covered in collective bargaining agreements (UN1) 25 ●
LA10 Average hours of training per employee by employee category 44 ● SOC-5
LA11 Programs for skills management, lifelong learning, career endings 44-45 ▲
LA12 Percent employees receiving regular performance and development reviews 44 ●
LA13Governing bodies and employees by category according to diversity indicators (UN1, UN6) (H)42, 52 ● SOC-4
LA14 Ratio of basic salary of women to men by employee category (UN1, UN6) 43 ▲
Health and safety management systems (H) 13 H&S-1
Employee satisfaction 43 SOC-A2
Non-retaliation and grievance system 12 SOC-655GRI 
INDICATORGENERAL DESCRIPTION PAGEGRI 
STATUSIPIECA 
INDICATOR
HUMAN RIGHTS
HR Disclosure on management approach to human rights aspects 16 ●
HR1Significant investment agreements that include or are screened for human 
rights (UN1 – UN6)16 ▲
HR2 Significant suppliers/contractors screened for human rights (UN1 –  UN6) 18 ▲ 
HR3Employee training on policies and procedures concerning human rights  
(UN1 – UN6)12, 16 ▲
HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken (UN1, UN2, UN6) 12 ●
HR5Operations at risk re: freedom of association and collective bargaining  
(UN1, UN2, UN3)16-17 ●
HR6 Operations at risk re: child labor (UN1, UN2, UN5) ●
HR7 Operations at risk re: forced and compulsory labor (UN1, UN2, UN4) ●
HR8 Security personnel trained on human rights (UN1, UN2) 16 ▲
HR9 Violations of indigenous peoples’ rights (UN1, UN2) 17 ●
SOCIETY
SODisclosure on management approach to corruption, public policy,  
anti-competitive behavior and compliance (UN10)10, 16 ●
Disclosure on management approach to community 47 ●
SO1Programs and practices that assess and manage impacts of operations  
on communities47 ●SOC-A7  
& SOC-8
SO2 Business units analyzed for risks related to corruption (UN10) 16 ●
SO3 Employees trained in anti-corruption policies and procedures (UN10) 12 ▲
SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption (UN10) 12 ●
SO5Public policy positions/participation in public policy development and  
lobbying (UN1 – UN10)14 ● SOC-A1
SO6 Political contributions (UN10) 12 ● SOC-3
SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior and outcomes 17 ●
SO8 Fines and penalties for noncompliance with laws and regulations 17 ●
Bribery and corruption, transparency of payment 16-17SOC-2, 
ECO-A1
External capacity building 46-49 SOC-A5
PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY
PR Disclosure on management approach to product responsibility 18 ●
PR1 Life-cycle assessment for health and safety impacts of products/services (UN1) 19 ●
PR2Noncompliances with health and safety impact requirements for  
products/services (UN1)19 ●
PR3 Product and service labeling requirements for significant products (UN8) 19 ●
PR4 Noncompliances with product and service labeling requirements (UN8) 19 ●
PR5 Customer satisfaction practices 19 ●
PR6 Marketing communications compliance programs 19 ●
PR7 Noncompliance with marketing communications regulations/voluntary codes 19 ●
PR8 Substantiated customer privacy complaints and data loss (UN1) 19 ●
PR9 Fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations re: products and services 19 ●56SCOPE AND OBJECTIVES  
ERM Certification & Verification Services (ERM CVS)  
was commissioned by Hess Corporation to undertake 
verification of its 2008 Corporate Sustainability Report  
(the Report). The objective of the verification was to establish that the information presented is a reliable representation of Hess Corporation’s performance and programs, and that the data presented conform to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 and also the IPEICA/API Reporting Framework guidelines.
The Management of Hess Corporation is responsible for the
information contained within the Report.
VERIFICATION APPROACH
We based our work on Hess Corporation’s internal guidance and definitions for the reported metrics. Our assurance approach was developed with reference to the International Standard for Assurance Engagements 3000: Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Information issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (ISAE 3000); as well as principles that ERM CVS has developed and refined for report assurance assessments. Our work involved detailed challenge of information through selected interrogation of both source and consolidated data in conjunction with interviews with operational and corporate staff with responsibilities for data management and report content.Substantiation of a sample of statements and claims made in the Report has been undertaken.
Our activities included review of activities and source 
data at the following Hess operations: exploration and production operations in Gassi El Agreb, Algeria; Ujung Pangkah, Indonesia, Tioga, North Dakota, USA (Tioga Gas Plant); and marketing and refining operations at the Pennsauken Terminal in New Jersey and Ft. Lauderdale Terminal in Florida, USA; and two representative Hess Express convenience stores in New Jersey, USA. The review also included visits to offices in Houston, Texas, and Woodbridge, New Jersey to assess and review data collection, data management and internal review processes.
OPINION & RECOMMENDATIONS
In the opinion of ERM CVS, Hess Corporation has continued to improve the quality, breadth of information and overall presentation of the sustainability data and we are not aware of the exclusion of any material issues or of any misstatements made in relation to the information presented. ERM CVS has evaluated the Report for conformance to GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and supports Hess Corporation’s assertion that the Report meets the GRI application level A+.
Our key observations build on those provided by ERM 
CVS previously and the work that Hess Corporation has accomplished this year and is committed to pursuing further. These are to:•  Continue to apply and improve the application of reliable 
methodologies and processes to capture data across all operations, supporting this with the provision of user guidance related to data collection requirements.
•  For information and metrics that are not fully reported review the materiality of these periodically and in light of stakeholder feedback to ensure adequate representation in future reports.
A full report of the findings and recommendations of the verification exercise has been presented to Hess Corporation.
OUR INDEPENDENCE
ERM CVS, responsible for reporting to Hess Corporation on its assurance conclusions, is a member of the ERM Group. This is the seventh year that ERM CVS has been engaged by Hess Corporation in this role. The work that ERM CVS conducts for clients is solely related to independent assurance activities and training programmes related to auditing techniques and approaches. Our processes are designed to ensure that the work we undertake with clients is free from bias and conflict of interest. ERM CVS and the staff that have undertaken work on this assurance exercise provide no consultancy related services to Hess Corporation in any respect.
Leigh Lloyd, Managing Director
June 2009
ERM Certification and Verification Services, London
www.ermcvs.com  |  email: post@ermcvs.comVerification
Statement
OpiniOn & RecOmmendatiOns
For copies of our Environment, Health and Safety Policy and 
our Corporate Social Responsibility Policy, or for more information 
regarding our operations, please visit our Web site at www.hess.com. 
We invite your questions, comments and suggestions regarding this 
report. T o send us your questions or comments, or request more 
information or additional copies of this report, please contact:
Vice President, 
Environment, Health, Safety and Social Responsibility
Hess Corporation
1185 Avenue of the Americas
New York, NY 10036
You can also send us an e-mail at ehs@hess.com.
Sandy Alexander Inc., an ISO 14001:2004 certified printer with Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) Chain of Custody 
printed the Hess Annual Corporate Sustainability Report with the use of renewable wind power resulting in nearly zero 
volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions. This report was printed on FSC-certified Mohawk Options paper, a 
process-chlorine-free 100 percent post-consumer waste (PCW) paper manufactured entirely with 100 percent certified 
wind energy and containing 100 percent post-consumer recycled fiber.
The savings below are achieved when PC recycled fiber is used in place of virgin fiber. 
 111 trees  preserved for the future
 321 lbs   waterborne waste not created
 47,288 gallons  wastewater flow saved
 5,232 lbs  solid waste not generated
 10.302 lbs  net greenhouse gases prevented
 78,852,800 BTUs  energy not consumed
Savings from the use of emission-free wind-generated electricity:
 5,230 lbs  air emissions not generated
Displaces this amount of fossil fuel:
 6 barrels  of crude oil
In other words your savings from the use of wind-generated electricity are equivalent to:
 Not driving  5,176 miles
 Planting  356 trees
Cert n o.  BV-COC-0809031185 Avenue of the Americas  
New York, New York 10036
www.hess.com