2009 Corporate Sustainability ReportThe principal facilities and assets operated by Hess 
Corporation and its subsidiaries during calendar year 
2009 are included in this report. Environment, health, 
safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) data refer to 
gross ﬁ  gures from operated facilities as well as for third-
party activities where Hess has overall responsibility as 
speciﬁ  ed in contractual arrangements. 
The information provided in this report has been 
guided by the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G3 
Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. To ensure oil and 
gas sector speciﬁ  c coverage, we have also followed the 
joint International Petroleum Industry Environmental 
Conservation Association and the American Petroleum 
Institute’s Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on 
Sustainability Reporting.
Report content was selected based on GRI’s principles 
and guidance. Materiality, based on applicability, degree 
of impact and risk, as well as stakeholder interest, was 
considered for each GRI indicator. Where an indicator 
was deemed to be of signiﬁ  cant materiality, reliable 
and veriﬁ  able quantitative data have been provided to 
the extent practicable given our current corporate data 
collection and aggregation systems. 
The GRI’s Reporting Guidance for Boundary Setting 
was applied to determine the inclusion of operational performance data for three key joint ventures not under 
Hess’ direct operational control but where we have 
signiﬁ  cant inﬂ  uence: the HOVENSA Reﬁ  nery in the U.S. 
Virgin Islands, the Joint Development Area (JDA) in 
Malaysia/Thailand and SonaHess in Algeria.  
To facilitate comparisons with prior years’ reports, 
data from HOVENSA has been presented separately. 
SonaHess and JDA performance data are included in 
Hess totals. Also, some quantitative EHS performance 
data have been reported on a normalized basis to 
facilitate year-on-year comparisons.
Net equity greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions have been 
reported for operations in which Hess had an equity 
interest but that were operated by other companies. 
With the exception of net equity GHG emissions, this 
report does not include EHS & SR data on assets 
operated by other companies in which Hess has an 
equity interest. 
The quality of the information and data included 
in this report was reviewed by ERM Certiﬁ  cation 
and Veriﬁ  cation Services (ERM CVS), an accredited 
independent third party. ERM CVS’ veriﬁ  cation 
statement has been included at the end of this report. 
ERM CVS also provided an opinion on the self-declared 
GRI Application Level.
On the cover: Student at Hess model school, Equatorial GuineaSCOPE OF 
REPORT
Note: Following a review by ERM CVS, our external veriﬁ  er, Hess is 
self-declaring a GRI Application level of A+ in conformance with the 
GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.Th is is our Communication on Progress
in implementing the principles of the
United Nations Global Compact.
We welcome feedback on its contents. WE SUPPORTReport Application Levels
CC + BB + AA +
Third 
Party
CheckedSelf 
Declared
Report Externally Assured
Report Report Externally AssuredGRI 
CheckedOptional Mandatory✓Accomplishments, 
Challenges and 
Opportunities04
66 Performance Data
68 GRI Content Index71 Verification Statement
72 Awards and RecognitionMessage from 
our Chairman02
Safety 
Performance20
Our Global 
Reach06Environmental 
Performance 28
Products and 
Services60
Community 
and Social 
Performance54
How We 
Operate10Global 
Workforce46
TABLE OF 
CONTENTS
2   |
In 2009 our company delivered strong performance in 
a challenging environment, marking further progress in 
our strategy to build a company that will sustain long 
term proﬁ  table growth while making a positive impact 
on the communities where we do business. Hess is 
committed to help meet the world’s demand for energy 
in a way that protects the health and safety of our 
stakeholders and respects the environment. 
A critical challenge for our company and our industry is 
that we expect demand for energy to rise signiﬁ  cantly 
in the years ahead. Currently 85 percent of the world’s 
energy comes from hydrocarbons: 35 percent oil, 
30 percent coal and 20 percent natural gas. A key 
driver of energy demand growth is world population, 
estimated to increase from 6.8 billion today to 9 billion 
by 2050, largely in the developing countries of the 
world. With a corresponding rise in living standards, 
hydrocarbon energy will be required to support 
economic development. While renewable energy will be 
needed and should be encouraged to help meet future 
energy demand and contribute to reducing our carbon 
footprint, it currently does not have the scale, timeframe 
or economics to alter materially the growing demand for 
hydrocarbons. As a consequence, more investment is 
required to ﬁ  nd and develop hydrocarbon resources
as well as to improve efﬁ  ciency in their use so that we 
reduce the risk of escalating energy prices that
would threaten world economic growth. 
Until the recent tragic accident in the deepwater Gulf 
of Mexico, our industry had an excellent record globally 
in safety performance and environmental protection. 
With the devastating loss of life, ecological damage to 
the Gulf coast and severe economic impact on local 
communities, it is clear that signiﬁ  cant improvementsin deepwater drilling standards and oil spill response 
are required. While our company believes we have 
extremely high performance requirements for the safety 
of drilling operations, we and our industry need to do 
all we can to learn from this disaster and to take the  
necessary precautions to ensure such a tragedy never 
happens again. 
While we have a huge challenge ahead of us in 
meeting future energy demand, we must also address 
the growing threat to sustainable development posed 
by climate change and reduce CO 2 emissions to leave 
a cleaner environment for future generations. Hess 
supports U.S. climate change legislation that treats 
all affected parties equitably and in a cost effective 
manner. We believe that the most equitable way to 
implement U.S. climate change legislation is to impose 
a carbon tax. We also support long term international 
collaboration for moderating energy demand by 
implementing efﬁ  ciency standards and diversifying 
and increasing energy supply, including oil, natural 
gas, cleaner coal, nuclear and renewables such as 
wind, solar and biofuels.    
A portion of our investment strategy includes moving 
quickly to access and develop the world’s abundance 
of unconventional hydrocarbon resources through 
signiﬁ  cant initiatives in the United States and 
international areas. Another component of our strategy 
includes an investment in the construction of an 
advanced technology natural gas powered electricity 
generation plant based in New Jersey that will provide 
power to New York City. We are also pursuing the 
commercial development of hydrogen fuel cells for 
use in safe, clean and efﬁ  cient transportation systems 
through our Nuvera Fuel Cells subsidiary. John B. Hess
Chairman of the Board 
and Chief Executive Ofﬁ  cerMESSAGE FROM 
THE CHAIRMAN
 John B. Hess
Chairman of the Board 
and Chief Executive Ofﬁ  cerMESSAGE FROM 
THE CHAIRMAN|   3HESS CORPORATION PERFORMANCE
The global reach of our operations demands our 
commitment to key voluntary international initiatives 
and standards with respect to human rights, 
environmental protection and ﬁ  nancial transparency. 
We support the Extractive Industries Transparency 
Initiative, the Voluntary Principles on Security and 
Human Rights, the United Nations Global Compact, 
the Universal Declaration on Human Rights and 
the International Labor Organization Declaration on 
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. In 2009 
we strengthened implementation of the Voluntary 
Principles, as well as related commitments to human 
rights and transparency. 
Hess has many types of stakeholder engagements that 
shape our business environment and inﬂ  uence our 
business success. Our objective is to be transparent and 
engage with our stakeholders on their issues of concern 
in a manner that is both constructive and productive.  
In 2009 our safety performance was the best ever 
since we began collecting data as we reduced our 
workforce recordable incident rate by 27 percent 
and experienced zero fatalities. This progress is a 
result of the commitment of our entire work force and 
the success of our management systems. We remain 
focused on continuous improvement in this area.
The Hess Leadership Team endorsed a comprehensive 
Climate Change Strategy, reviewed with the Board 
of Directors, for managing our carbon footprint. This 
strategy included a ﬁ  ve year target for a reduction of 20 
percent in the company’s greenhouse gas emissions 
intensity. We made substantial progress toward 
achieving that target in 2009, reducing emissions 
intensity by 11 percent against the 2008 baseline.
As part of our strategy, we also committed to reducing 
by 50 percent the combined ﬂ  aring emissions at our 
operations in Algeria and Equatorial Guinea over ﬁ  ve 
years. In 2009, we successfully reduced the combined 
ﬂ  aring at these operations by 45 percent. In addition, 
our Climate Change Network is implementing a 
corporate-wide Energy Efﬁ  ciency program, which
we anticipate having in place by next year, along 
with performance targets.  
  
Hess is dedicated to attracting, energizing, developing 
and retaining a highly talented diversiﬁ  ed workforce 
that is capable of delivering strong business results.  
Women comprise 40 percent of our global workforce.In 2009, with a strong focus on learning and 
development, more than 22 percent of professional 
employees assumed new roles within the company.  
A core part of our progress is a social responsibility 
strategy that is guided by our Values, Code of Conduct, 
policies and management systems that protect our 
employees, customers, host communities and the 
environment. Before the company makes a major new 
investment, we conduct an Environmental and Social 
Impact Assessment to understand the potential effects 
of our operation. We continue to pursue a focused 
social responsibility strategy centered on health and 
education through partnerships with host governments 
and leading non-governmental organizations to develop 
sustainable programs.   
OUR COMMITMENT
We are proud of our achievements but aware that 
we face signiﬁ  cant challenges, including political 
instability, human rights and environmental concerns 
in certain areas where we conduct operations; national 
and international climate change measures; demand 
for affordable, clean and renewable energy; global 
competition for skilled and experienced workers and 
the risk of technical obstacles in ﬁ  nding and developing 
hydrocarbon reserves. 
In the coming years, we will continue to pursue our 
strategy of sustainable growth targeting ﬁ  rst quartile 
operating performance across our business. Our 
company will do its part in helping to build a balanced 
and comprehensive approach to energy security and 
protection of the environment to ensure sustainable 
development. We are proud of the progress we have 
made in the growth of our company and we recognize 
that success is a long journey. With the continuing 
support of our customers, employees, investors, 
business partners and communities where we do 
business, we are conﬁ  dent that we are building a 
sustainable enterprise that will make a positive impact 
on the world around us.
 John B. Hess
Chairman of the Board
and Chief Executive Ofﬁ  cer4   |ACCOMPLISHMENTS, CHALLENGES 
AND OPPORTUNITIESPERFORMANCE 
AGAINST
OUR VALUES
ACCOMPLISHMENTS METRIC
• Strong ﬁ  nancial and operating 
performance in a challenging 
economic environment.
• Increased comprehensiveness and 
quality of sustainability performance 
disclosures.
• Established ﬁ  ve-year, 20 percent GHG 
intensity reduction target; reduced direct 
GHG emissions and ﬂ  aring.
• Proactive programs implemented to 
minimize oil spills.
• Upgraded Global Talent Management and 
Succession Process.
• Increased number of positions held by 
foreign nationals.
• Human Rights policy developed with 
stakeholder input; risk assessment, 
training conducted in Asia Paciﬁ  c.
• Organized industry training session for 
Civil Society members of Equatorial 
Guinea EITI Commission.
• Equatorial Guinea education program 
met program objectives.
• Social Investment strategy more aligned 
with business strategy, focused on 
education and health.• No fatalities; best-ever workforce safety 
performance; no catastrophic incidents.
• Focused efforts to improve employee 
wellness through prevention.• $740 million net income;
7 percent production growth.
• GRI G3 A+ application level,
strong sustainability rankings.
• Achieved 11 percent GHG intensity
reduction toward 20 percent ﬁ  ve-year target.
• Reduced ﬂ  aring in Equatorial Guinea and 
Algeria by 45 percent toward 50 percent 
ﬁ ve-year ﬂ  are reduction target.
• No oil spills greater than 50 barrels; 80 
percent reduction in spill volume.
• 22 percent professionals in new roles; 
34 percent increase in mentoring; 
35 percent women/minorities in U.S. 
leadership program. 
• 60-90 percent nationals in major 
overseas operations.
• Human Rights policy approved and 
disseminated; site visits, training in three 
countries. 
• Actively promote Extractive Industries 
Transparency Initiative (EITI) implementation 
in countries where Hess operates.
• Nearly 1,200 teachers trained;
improved data informs planning; 
40 schools refurbished.
• New Social Responsibility Policy
and Spending Guidelines developed 
and issued.• No fatalities; 0.82 employee and 0.64 
workforce recordable incident rates; 
site-speciﬁ  c targets for preventive 
safety actions.
• Employee participation in health risk 
screening activities.
4   |
VALUE CREATION
SAFETY & HEALTH
ENVIRONMENT
TRANSPARENCY & 
HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMUNITY & SOCIAL 
PERFORMANCEPEOPLE|   5CHALLENGES OPPORTUNITIES
• Execute strategy to generate sustainable E&P growth 
and maximize M&R current returns. 
• Continue to improve global data collection and quality 
control at the ﬁ  eld level.
• Capital investment that achieves GHG emissions 
intensity reductions.
• Maintain progress and prevent isolated incidents.
• Prepare employees for advancement; recruit skilled 
professionals; integrate new hires.
• Reduce reliance on expatriates around the world.
• Ensure broad knowledge and best practice companywide; 
training to encourage supplier and contractor respect 
for policy.
• Encourage Equatorial Guinea to reapply for EITI 
candidate status.
• Sustainability of effort beyond grant period.
• Ensure that activities reﬂ  ect changing business realities.• Continue to improve safety culture and management 
systems to reduce incident risks.
• Provide global wellness program sensitive to local cultures.• Attractive portfolio of investment opportunities to deliver 
sustainable growth in reserves and production.
• Continue to address stakeholder expectations. 
• Improve organizational competence through training.
• Continue mitigation through energy efﬁ  ciency, ﬂ  are 
and vent minimization and increase renewable and 
alternative energy.
• Continue to reduce spill frequency and volume.
• Continue to build globally diverse workforce as we grow.
• Recruit and develop local talent for leadership roles.
• Assessment and training scheduled for Africa in 2010.
• Build on Equatorial Guinea progress by publishing 
EITI dataset.
• Program beneﬁ  ts foster sustained efforts by 
government and community.
• Social spend more integrated with overall 
stakeholder engagement.• Continue to mature culture of safety excellence.
• Achieve aspirational goal of zero safety incidents.
• Reduction in health risks by increasing awareness, 
preventative screening and changes in behaviors.
|   56   |
OUR GLOBAL 
REACH
Okume Complex, Equatorial Guinea|   7Hess Corporation (NYSE: HES) is a leading global 
independent energy company engaged in the 
exploration for and production of crude oil and natural 
gas, as well as in reﬁ  ning and in marketing reﬁ  ned 
petroleum products, natural gas and electricity. We are 
headquartered in New York City and employ 13,300 
people in 20 countries. Our strategy is to build a 
company that will sustain proﬁ  table growth and
create signiﬁ  cant shareholder value.
We are committed to meeting the highest standards 
of corporate citizenship by protecting the health and 
safety of our employees, safeguarding the environment 
and making a positive impact on the communities in 
which we do business.
EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION
In 2009 Hess net oil and gas production averaged 
408,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day and the 
company’s proved reserves grew to 1.44 billion barrels 
of oil equivalent.Increased production resulted from the startup of the 
Shenzi Field in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, higher 
production at the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development 
Area (JDA) and strong operating performance across 
the portfolio. During the year we continued to build our 
position in the North Dakota Bakken shale play, the 
Marcellus shale play in northeastern Pennsylvania and 
acquired new acreage in the United States, Indonesia, 
Australia and Norway to build our exploration portfolio. 
Our Exploration and Appraisal team drilled successful 
wells in Australia, Malaysia, Libya, the United Kingdom 
and Peru.
MARKETING AND REFINING 
Hess is the leading independent gasoline convenience 
store retailer on the U.S. East Coast with 1,357 Hess-
branded locations. Hess Energy Marketing is a major 
supplier of natural gas, fuel oil and electricity to 
commercial, industrial and utility customers and offers 
a suite of green and carbon-neutral products.
OUR VALUES
Hess Values set the framework and establish the 
ethical standards by which we conduct our business.
Integrity      We are committed to the highest
level of integrity in all our relationships.
People      We are committed to attracting, retaining 
and energizing the best people by investing in their 
professional development and providing them with 
challenging and rewarding opportunities for personal 
growth. 
Performance      We are committed to a culture of 
performance that demands and rewards outstanding 
results throughout our business.Value Creation      We are committed to creating 
shareholder value based on sustained ﬁ  nancial 
performance and long-term proﬁ  table growth.
Social Responsibility      We are committed to 
meeting the highest standards of corporate citizenship 
by protecting the health and safety of our employees, 
safeguarding the environment and creating a long-
lasting, positive impact on the communities where we 
do business.
Independent Spirit      We are committed to 
preserving the special qualities and unique personality 
that have made us a successful independent enterprise.EMPLOYEES 
WORLDWIDE13,300
BILLION BARRELS 
PROVED RESERVES1.44
COUNTRIES 
WORLDWIDE20 8   |PERUCOLOMBIAGulf of MexicoTexasUNITED STATESNorth Dakota
Pennsylvania
BRAZIL
8   |OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS
Marketing & Reﬁ  ning Area Detail
HOVENSA
St. Croix, USVI
ST. LUCIAReﬁ nery 
Terminal
UNITED STATES M&R HIGHLIGHTS
•  Energy Marketing provided energy to 22,000 
commercial and industrial customers in the 
eastern United States and increased electricity 
sales volumes by 37 percent.
•  Retail Operations increased convenience store 
sales by 11 percent, acquired 11 gasoline 
convenience stores in Massachusetts and 
expanded its Dunkin’ Donuts offering to 367 sites.
•  Our HOVENSA JV reﬁ  nery averaged 402,000 
BPD of gross crude runs and our Port Reading 
reﬁ ning facility averaged 63,000 BPD of 
feedstock runs in 2009.
•  Nuvera Fuel Cells, a wholly owned subsidiary of 
Hess, received two U.S. Department of Energy 
awards for fuel cell research and development.UNITED STATES E&P HIGHLIGHTS
PRODUCTION
•  Completed startup of Shenzi ﬁ  eld in deepwater Gulf of Mexico. 
•  Drilled 33 wells and increased production in North Dakota.
DEVELOPMENT
•  Expanded Seminole Gas Plant to support Permian
production in Texas.
•  Completed plans to expand Tioga Gas Plant in North Dakota.
EXPLORATION
• Acquired 80,000 net acres in Marcellus shale gas play in
 northeastern Pennsylvania.
SOUTH AMERICA HIGHLIGHTS
EXPLORATION
•  Drilled two wells offshore Brazil, one of which resulted
in a notice of discovery.|   9CHINA
ALGERIA
EQUATORIAL 
GUINEAGHANALIBYA EGYPT
MALAYSIA
INDONESIA
AUSTRALIATHAILAND
Malaysia/Thailand 
JDAAZERBAIJANDENMARK RUSSIA
UNITED 
KINGDOMNORWAY
GABON
|   9Country of Operation
EUROPE & RUSSIA HIGHLIGHTS
PRODUCTION
•  Announced strategic asset trade subject to various approvals; 
Hess to assume Shell’s interest in two ﬁ  elds in Norway. 
Shell to assume Hess’ interest in Clair Field in the U.K. and 
all interests in Gabon.
•  Achieved annual production of 37,000 BPD in Russia.
AFRICA HIGHLIGHTS
EXPLORATION
•  Drilled and successfully tested appraisal well in Libya.
ASIA & AUSTRALIA HIGHLIGHTS
PRODUCTION
•  Full year Phase 2 natural gas sales in Malaysia/Thailand JDA.
DEVELOPMENT
•  Commissioned liqueﬁ  ed petroleum gas processing facility
in Indonesia.
EXPLORATION
•  Awarded South Sesulu block in Indonesia.
•  Discovered natural gas at six wells offshore Australia.Business Performance Highlights                                2009 
Sales and other operating revenue $ Million 29,614
Net income $ Million 740
Capital and exploratory expenditures $ Million 3,245
Total assets $ Million 29,465
Total debt $ Million 4,467
Stockholders’ equity $ Million 13,528
*excludes fuel salesExploration and Production
Total net hydrocarbons produced  000 BOE/D 408
Proved reserves (total)  000 BOE 1,437
United States % 21
Europe % 30
Africa % 23
Asia and others % 26
Reserve life Y ears 9.5
Replaced production % 103
Marketing and Reﬁ  ning
Reﬁ ned petroleum product sales 000 BOE/D 473
Convenience store sales* $ Million 1,164
HOVENSA gross crude runs  000 BOE/D 402
Port Reading feedstock runs 000 BOE/D 6310   |
HOW WE 
OPERATE
Drilling operations in North Dakota|   11STRATEGY AND APPROACH
Our company is committed to meeting the global 
demand for energy in a manner that safeguards the 
health and safety of our employees, protects the 
environment and makes a sustainable and positive 
impact on the communities where we operate.
The Hess Values – Integrity, People, Performance, 
Value Creation, Social Responsibility and Independent 
Spirit – form the structure and establish the ethical 
standards by which we conduct our business.
We view the Hess Values as core components of 
our approach to operational excellence. Our Code 
of Business Conduct and Ethics, as well as our 
Environment, Health, Safety and Social Responsibility 
(EHS&SR) policies, management systems and 
initiatives are all designed to ensure that we identify 
and manage the risks associated with our operations, 
products and services.
Our membership in key industry associations ensures 
that we follow best industry practices and that our 
positions on legislative and regulatory matters are well 
represented to appropriate stakeholders.
We report openly on our sustainability performance 
and are committed to engaging productively with our 
stakeholders. The company endorses key international 
voluntary initiatives that are designed to protect the 
environment, promote universal human rights and 
provide ﬁ  nancial transparency. We value a diverse 
supply chain and the contributions we make to our 
local economies.
BOARD AND MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE
Board of Directors      The Board of Directors is 
responsible for overseeing the business of the company, including its ﬁ  nancial and non-ﬁ  nancial performance. 
The Board consists of 13 directors, 10 of whom are 
independent. The Board is chaired by John B. Hess, 
who is also Chief Executive Ofﬁ  cer of the company. 
Eight regular meetings are held annually and there are 
three principal committees: Audit; Compensation and 
Management Development; and Corporate Governance 
and Nominating. All members of the committees are 
independent, in accordance with New York Stock 
Exchange and Securities and Exchange Commission 
(SEC) rules. Each committee has a written charter 
that sets forth its purpose and responsibilities. More 
information on the Board of Directors and relevant SEC 
ﬁ  lings is available on www.hess.com.
Audit Committee       The Audit Committee fulﬁ  lls 
the Board of Directors’ responsibility to oversee the 
company’s ﬁ  nancial statements, ﬁ  nancial reporting 
practices, systems of internal accounting and ﬁ  nancial 
and disclosure controls, internal audit function, 
retention and oversight of independent auditors, 
management of risk, and the company’s environment, 
health, safety and social responsibility programs. The 
committee has six members, meets six times a year and 
routinely reviews the company’s environment, health, 
safety and social responsibility performance.
Related Party Transactions      Hess directors 
and executive ofﬁ  cers are required to bring to the 
company’s attention all related party transactions, 
including those that must be disclosed under 
Securities and Exchange Commission regulations. 
The Hess Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 
provides that any company representative, including 
a director or ofﬁ  cer, who considers conducting
a transaction that might give rise to a conﬂ  ict of 
interest, must report the transaction in advance to 
the company’s legal department for review.VOLUNTARY 
COMMITMENTS 
TO HUMAN 
RIGHTSYEARS OF 
SUSTAINABILITY 
REPORTINGBILLION IN DIRECT 
ECONOMIC 
CONTRIBUTIONS$8 12 512   |Communication with the Board of Directors
Stockholders and interested parties who wish to 
communicate or request a meeting with members of 
the Board of Directors or with only non-management 
directors or any speciﬁ  ed individual director may do so 
by e-mail at directors@hess.com, or by writing to them 
in care of:
Chairperson of the Corporate Governance
and Nominating Committee
Hess Corporation 
P.O. Box 2694
Easton, Maryland 21601
Hess Leadership Team      The Hess Leadership Team 
provides strategic business direction and makes key 
operational decisions for the company. The Leadership 
Team, consisting of eight corporate executive ofﬁ  cers, 
establishes strategies to provide a clear focus on the 
promotion of environment, health, safety and social 
responsibility policies, as well as management systems 
that protect the company’s workforce, customers 
and local communities. Executive compensation is 
linked in part to select environment, health, safety 
and social responsibility performance metrics. The 
Hess Leadership Team also establishes performance 
objectives and holds business units accountable for 
their performance. The company’s business units and 
line management are responsible for incorporating 
environment, health, safety and social responsibility 
expectations into business activities and providing 
adequate resources and mechanisms to meet 
performance objectives.
Operational Excellence Leadership Team  
Executives representing Exploration and Production 
(E&P), Marketing and Reﬁ  ning (M&R), EHS&SR, Global 
Process Excellence and Information Technology make 
up the Operational Excellence Leadership Team (OELT). 
This team, commissioned in 2009 by the company’s 
chief executive ofﬁ  cer and chaired by the president of 
E&P, reports to the Hess Leadership Team and provides 
leadership in the ﬁ  ve “pillars” that comprise our 
Operational Excellence (OE) framework: EHS&SR, asset integrity, reliability, production/business optimization 
and cost management and control. The OELT meets 
frequently to further integration of OE principles, 
practices and culture into our operations to enable 
sustainable, world class results. 
ETHICAL BUSINESS CONDUCT
The Hess Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 
describes the company’s commitment to integrity. The 
Code deﬁ  nes the company’s core values and ethical 
standards regarding business ethics, citizenship, 
contracting and labor practices, regulatory compliance, 
safety and stewardship of the environment.
Aboard the Stena Forth drillship
The company monitors compliance with the law and 
its own policies and has established telephone and 
internet services to enable employees to report activity 
that may not be in compliance. Notices of suspected 
violations, including those made anonymously, are 
treated conﬁ  dentially and promptly investigated in a 
manner that is thorough and fair. Between Nov. 1, How We Operate|   132008, and Oct. 15, 2009, 75 reports were received. 
Of those, 16 were substantiated and resulted in 
follow-up action. The Audit Committee of the Board of 
Directors reviews matters related to compliance with 
the Code.
In 2009 there were no legal actions, signiﬁ  cant ﬁ  nes, 
or non-monetary sanctions relating to anti-competitive 
behavior, anti-trust, or monopoly related laws or 
regulations. The company expects full compliance with 
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) on the part of 
its directors, ofﬁ  cers, employees, business partners and 
agents. During the year, approximately 78 percent of 
staff who were required to take anti-corruption training, 
completed online courses.
During orientation, new employees are required 
to document that they have reviewed the Code. In 
addition, the company conducts regular and mandatory 
training of salaried employees on ethical guidelines 
using an online Hess Code of Business Conduct 
training course. Last year 3,470 employees were 
assigned to take the online training. Of those, 2,463 
successfully completed the course.
The company takes no action against an employee who 
in good faith makes a complaint or reports known or 
suspected violations of company policy.
POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS
Hess corporate policy prohibits company contributions 
to political parties and candidates and the use of Hess 
facilities or property for campaign activities. Moreover, 
the policy prohibits the use of corporate resources and 
corporate personnel in ways that assist campaigns 
of candidates. Management may not coerce political 
contributions from employees and the company may 
not directly or indirectly reimburse an employee for 
a political contribution or channel a contribution 
through an employee to disguise its origin. Employees 
who wish to engage in the political process through 
the support of candidates and political parties are 
encouraged to do so privately.MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
Hess uses an integrated approach to managing the 
operational risks related to occupational health and 
safety (including process safety), the environment, 
social responsibility and employee wellness. With this 
approach, we communicate our expectations and 
threshold requirements for consistent management of 
EHS & SR risks across the company, compliance with 
applicable laws and regulations, and conformance with 
internal expectations. At the same time our approach 
allows enough ﬂ  exibility at the business and asset level 
to meet the speciﬁ  c needs of our diverse operations.
Our Principles for Operational Excellence provide a 
framework for the way we conduct our business and 
for continuous improvement in our management 
systems and performance. The Principles support 
the company’s six Core Values, the Code of Business 
Conduct and Ethics and the Environment, Health 
and Safety, the Social Responsibility and the Human 
Rights policies. 
In turn the Principles for Operational Excellence 
are supported by Global Standards that deﬁ  ne 
and describe how to put into practice general 
management, safety, health, environment and social 
responsibility expectations for managing signiﬁ  cant 
risks to people, the environment, operating assets 
and our reputation. The Principles for Operational 
Excellence and Global Standards are a bridge between 
the commitments and expectations described in our 
Environment, Health and Safety, Social Responsibility 
and Human Rights policies and the management 
systems, processes, procedures, technical guidance 
and work practices used in our businesses. 
The Environment, Health, Safety and Social 
Responsibility Global Standards map to existing 
industry-recognized management system protocols, 
including: International Certiﬁ  cation Standard 
for Environmental Management Systems (ISO 
14001), International Occupational Health & Safety 
Management System speciﬁ  cation (OHSAS 18001), 
American Chemical Council’s Responsible Care ® 14   |Management System, U.S. Occupational Safety and 
Health Administration’s Process Safety Management 
standard, and U. S. Environmental Protection Agency’s 
Risk Management Program.
Decisions about ISO certiﬁ  cation are made within 
the business units. Hess’ North Sea operations, 
South Arne operations, and St. Lucia oil terminal are 
ISO 14001 certiﬁ  ed and account for approximately 
14 percent of gross operated oil production and 
throughput.  Denmark Production operations are 
OHSAS 18001 certiﬁ  ed.  
KEY MEMBERSHIPS AND ASSOCIATIONS
Hess Corporation is active in international, national 
and local industry and business associations. The 
company holds leadership positions in the International 
Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation 
Association (IPIECA), the Retail Energy Supply 
Association, the National Petrochemical and Reﬁ  ners 
Association, the North Dakota Petroleum Council, 
the Marcellus Shale Coalition, the Corporate Council 
on Africa, the U.S.-Libya Business Association, the 
U.S.-Algeria Business Council and the U.S.-Azerbaijan 
Chamber of Commerce.
We are also represented on IPIECA’S Strategic Issues 
Assessment Forum, Greenhouse Gas Initiatives 
Taskforce and Climate Change and Social Responsibility 
working groups, the International Emissions Trading 
Association (IETA) U.S. and Post-2012 working 
groups, the International Association of Oil and 
Gas Producers (OGP) Environment Committee and 
Greenhouse Gas Reporting Task Force, the National 
Health and Environmental Committees and the ORC 
Worldwide Executive Business Issues Forum, and 
the Occupational Safety and Health Committee. 
Hess serves as a Trustee of the Council on Employee 
Beneﬁ  ts; on the Executive Committee for the 
Conference Board’s Executive Compensation Council; 
on the Steering Committee of the E27 Group; and on 
the Partner Committee for Harvard Business 
School Publishing.  Our participation and involvement in these 
organizations are among the major means by which 
we participate in public policy debate.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
We have many types of stakeholders that shape our 
business environment and inﬂ  uence our business 
success. Our six core Values, Code of Business 
Conduct and Ethics, Environment, Health and Safety, 
Social Responsibility and Human Rights policies set 
expectations for how we conduct our global business 
to the highest standards of business and personal 
integrity in all our relationships. Our goal is to be 
transparent and engage with our stakeholders on their 
issues of concern in a manner that is constructive 
and productive. Commonly used communication 
mechanisms include meetings, town halls, webinars, 
videoconferences, feedback programs and surveys, 
speaking engagements and public reports.How We Operate
Hess sponsored orphanage in Algeria|   15The table above describes several examples of our 
stakeholder engagement activities. Additional information on stakeholder engagement with employees, suppliers, communities, host governments and educational institutions is included later in this report.
Sustainability Reporting       We have published 
information on environment, health and safety performance since 1997 and social performance since 2005. Our annual sustainability report follows the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 guidelines supplemented by IPIECA and the American Petroleum Institute Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Sustainability Reporting. In 2009 we became a member of a GRI sponsored multi-stakeholder working 
group that is developing a sector supplement for the oil and gas industry.
We make our sustainability report widely available 
through the company’s Web site (www.hess.com)and by hard copy upon request. We directly distribute the print report to an extensive numberof stakeholders, including our employees, and arrange for its inclusion on the GRI Web site(www.globalreporting.org). This report is also submitted to the United Nations Global Compactas our annual Communication on Progress (COP).OUR STAKEHOLDERS
Stakeholder Types of Engagement
Employees Town halls, feedback programs and surveys, compliance hotline, 
safety committees, intranet, performance management program, new employee onboarding, volunteerism
Communities Consultation and feedback, town halls, open house tours, social 
investments, participation in local associations, community advisory panels and local emergency planning and response organizations, employee volunteerism and matching grants 
Suppliers Local content and mentoring programs, contract discussions and 
negotiations, trade shows and conferences, business to business communications
Shareholders and investors Investor relations organization, shareholder dialogue and consulta-
tion, annual shareholder meetings, investor surveys and workshops
Customers and consumers Feedback programs and surveys, customer service organizations, 
business to business communications, trade shows and conferences, supplier surveys
Industry associates Trade and professional association activities, benchmarkingGovernments and multi-lateral institutions Consultation and negotiation, legislative and regulatory advocacy, 
training courses and conferences, voluntary initiatives
NGOs and educational institutions Partnerships, memberships, consultation, research funding, 
matching grants, internships16   |We have participated in the Carbon Disclosure 
Project (CDP) since 2004, providing investors with comprehensive qualitative and quantitative climate change management and greenhouse gas emissions data. Our CDP reports are publicly available on the CDP Web site (www.cdproject.net). We provide sustainability performance data to the world’s leading Environment, Social & Governance research and rating agencies and upon request to our institutional and individual shareholders as well as academic institutions and individual students conducting sustainability research.
Multi-Stakeholder Engagement       In 2009 we 
continued to participate in the United Nations Global Compact (Global Compact) local network meetings and the annual Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (Voluntary Principles) and Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) plenaries. We engaged extensively in support of EITI implementation in Equatorial Guinea (E.G.), working with the U.S. State Department, the World Bank, the E.G. government and the civil society members of the E.G. EITI group. We also participated in the World Bank Sustainable Decommissioning of Oil Fields and Mines initiative which included government regulators from Europe, North America and Sub Saharan Africa, World Bank staff, nongovernmental organizations, and representatives from oil and gas and mining companies and trade associations. The initiative resulted in decommissioning guidance and tools for use by the countries in Sub Saharan Africa, speciﬁ  cally the ministries that oversee the extractive industries.
TRANSPARENCY AND HUMAN RIGHTS
Hess has a longstanding commitment to human rights that is reﬂ  ected in our Social Responsibility Value, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Social Responsibility Policy and new Human Rights Policy. Between 2002 and 2004 we endorsed and began participating in international voluntary initiatives designed to promote universal human rights, protect the environment, and encourage ﬁ  nancial transparency: the Global Compact, 
The Voluntary Principles and the EITI. We endorse and respect the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labor Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. The principles espoused in these frameworks and voluntary initiatives and standards have been incorporated into our policies and programs. 
Workers at Samara-Nafta operation, Russia
In 2009 we strengthened implementation of the Voluntary Principles and related commitments to human rights and transparency by using a multi-pronged approach that incorporated policies, implementation guidelines, training, contractual arrangements and monitoring.How We Operate|   17Policies and Protocols      Hess now has in place 
a Human Rights Policy that clearly articulates the company’s commitment to respecting human rights.  The policy covers labor practices, security, supply chain and community engagement and social development.  Training is being developed.
In keeping with our Code of Conduct we avoid engaging 
public security forces where possible. In practice this means that Hess almost exclusively contracts with private security companies, which gives our company greater inﬂ  uence at our project sites. Private security contractors are required to conduct background checks on their employees, including criminal records. In order to mitigate the risk of unreasonable use of force, a guideline was implemented that security guards should be unarmed whenever the local security situation permits this option. Implementation of the guideline led to the disarming of Hess’ private security guards in Indonesia and Thailand. 
In 2010 we are continuing to take steps to 
systematically incorporate security and human rights concerns into earlier stages of projects including risk assessments and integration of community development, security and human rights expertise.
Human Rights Risk Assessments      We use 
several methods to predict and identify human rights impacts, starting with our Global Human Rights Risk Assessments and third-party ﬁ  eld visits to conduct human rights impact assessments in the high risk countries. In 2009 the assessors analyzed our operations in Thailand, Indonesia and Malaysia and held discussions with local and international NGOs, local communities, employees and contractors. While our goal is to prevent adverse human rights impacts from occurring in the ﬁ  rst place, we recognize that it may not be possible to eliminate all human rights risks 
that arise, including those related to the presence of public and private security providers. 
In 2010 we plan on conducting third-party ﬁ  eld visits 
in several African countries in which we operate to better understand the efﬁ  cacy of our existing systems and identify any gaps. These assessments are expected to provide an analysis of security-related human rights risks and company interactions with public security providers.
Training and Awareness      In 2009 we undertook 
efforts to increase awareness and knowledge of the Voluntary Principles across the organization and focused our efforts in the Asia Paciﬁ  c region where we held employee training regarding all of Hess’ voluntary commitments. The legal team held “lunch and learn” sessions for employees at several national ofﬁ  ces and explained the requirements that the Voluntary Principles impose. New employee orientation incorporated a presentation on the company’s voluntary commitments. The February 2009 edition of our regional employee newsletter included an article by our legal team that highlighted Hess’ commitment to the Voluntary Principles.  
This training was reinforced when external consultants 
provided human rights training to Hess employees and private security contractors at project sites and the country and regional ofﬁ  ces. The training highlighted the requirements found in the Voluntary Principles, and also incorporated dialogue regarding scenarios that involve security and human rights issues. In 2010 we are continuing with our training efforts to ensure that private and public security personnel will respond appropriately in a crisis.We have a longstanding commitment to human rights and 
respect for the communities where we operate.18   |Security and Human Rights      Any security incident 
with human rights implications is reported to the head of global security, not only instances where human rights are, in fact, negatively affected, but also occurrences that highlight potential future risks such as peaceful community protests that may indicate social unrest in the project area. While such incidents are reported to the global security manager as well as regional managers, we ﬁ  nd that they are generally best addressed at the local level.
Accordingly, our community development and security 
teams engage with the community to address theroot causes of non-violent incidents, such as protests.Our local teams also seek the views of non-governmental organizations and community and religious leaders. In addition we engage at the national level as appropriate regarding security and human rights issues and hold discussions with public security forces where warranted.
Should physical force be used by Hess’ private security 
contractors or by public security in relation to our operations, our procedures require follow up with the proper authorities to ensure that the incident is investigated and that any individuals taken into custody are treated in accordance with international human rights standards. 
Public Security      In some countries where we have 
signiﬁ  cant operations, using the local military or law enforcement personnel for security or operational reasons may be unavoidable. We have sought to limit the use of public security forces and have taken steps to educate both public and private security providers at these higher risk locations.
In Indonesia, Hess is required by law to work with BP 
Migas, the executive agency which supervises and controls Indonesia’s upstream oil and gas business. This agency has a contract with the public security forces that allows them to act if a national asset, such as an oil or gas installation, is endangered. Recent BP Migas contracts with public security forces include stipulations regarding the appropriate use of force 
and adherence to human rights standards.
Labor Practices      We do not permit the employment 
of underage children in our workforce or the use of forced or compulsory labor in any of our global operations. We support freedom of association.  The company has not identiﬁ  ed operations with signiﬁ  cant risk for incidents of child labor or forced or compulsory labor. Other International Labor Organization rights at work are discussed in the Global Workforce section of this report.
Communities      We respect the rights of the 
communities where we operate, as well as the rights of indigenous peoples, and conduct appropriate due diligence prior to initiating operation. We believe that early, proactive stakeholder consultation beneﬁ  ts the company and the community and makes for high impact, sustainable outcomes.How We Operate
Fishermen’s cooperative, Indonesia|   19OUR SUPPLIERS
We expect our contractors and suppliers to 
respect and act in accordance with our voluntary commitments, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and Environment, Health and Safety, Social Responsibility and Human Rights policies.
Contracts for goods and services typically include 
requirements for supplier compliance with applicable laws and regulations and Hess policies in areas such as safety (including process safety), health, environment, drug and alcohol use, business ethics, conﬂ  icts of interest, the FCPA and labor practices. Internationally, E&P operations have incorporated provisions relating to adherence to the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights in selected supplier contracts following 
risk evaluations.Hess and HOVENSA are committed to a strong and 
diverse supplier network which supports our goal of making a positive contribution in the communities where we do business. In the U.S., we enhanced our supplier diversity policy and program to provide increased opportunities to certiﬁ  ed small and diverse businesses as part of the sourcing and procurement process. 
In 2009 small businesses accounted for 28 percent 
of the company’s U.S. recordable spending. Small businesses comprised 34 percent of our suppliers, of which 18 percent were women and minority owned. 
While HOVENSA’s spending on goods and services 
decreased, small business suppliers increased by2 percent and small diverse business suppliers increased by 1 percent.
ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTIONS
Hess Corporation provides direct and indirect economic contributions to those countries where we operate. Direct contributions of $8.1 billion included shareholder dividends, employee wages and beneﬁ  ts, capital and operational expenditures, interest paid on debt, supplier spend, income taxes, and other payments to governments including royalties, severance, re-entry payments, leasehold arrangements, dispensation duties, gas transport fees and carbon taxes. Our social investments of $13 million are intended to foster indirect economic beneﬁ  ts and are discussed in the Community and Social Performance section of this report. Hess did not receive any signiﬁ  cant government ﬁ  nancial assistance in 2009.2009 Economic Contributions – $8.1 billion
3,245
2,451794715414360 131
Capital and Exploration
Expenditures - $3,245
Recordable Supplier
Spend (U.S.) - $2,451
Wages and 
Benefits (U.S.) - $794
Income Tax
Expense - $715
Royalties and
Other Payments - $414
Interest Expense - $360
Dividends - $131($ Million)    Hess HOVENSA
Type of Business* 2007 2008 2009 2007 2008 2009
Small 749 682 695 119 55 44
Women owned 24 33 53 4 3 3
Minority owned 10 33 68 1.5 0.8 1.7Recordable Spend with Small and Diverse Suppliers within the U.S. (Million USD)
*Based on the U.S. Small Business Administration’s deﬁ  nitions20   |
2020202202222222220200020202020020202022022022220000220222222002202202000222222020222002022220002222002022222220002002020222220002000002222202002002220022
    
||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||
SAFETY
PERFORMANCE
HESS EXPRESS, Clearwater, Florida|   21STRATEGY AND APPROACH
Social Responsibility, Performance and Value Creation 
are among the Hess Values that set the framework and establish the ethical standards by which we conduct our business. Inherent to these values is the company’s commitment to protecting the safety and health of employees, contractors and customers. Safety is essential to our operational excellence.
We operate our assets safely, evaluating and managing 
chronic, acute and catastrophic risks through rigorous personal and process safety management plans. We strive to operate our equipment so it runs predictably and within required operating parameters and established lifecycles. The company is committed to conducting all Hess operations in a manner that prevents the uncontrolled loss of product, unplanned equipment outages or slowdowns, and structural failures.
We conduct regular drills and exercises of our 
emergency response systems and have established effective incident reporting processes to ensure we are capable of further supporting workplace and community safety.
Our operations, and those in which we participate as 
joint venture partners, are subject to national, regional and local health and safety regulations. We routinely audit these operations, using internal and external authorities, to assess conformance with the company’s management systems expectations and compliance with laws and regulations.
Our leaders set clear expectations and establish 
measurable safety and health accountabilities for our workforce, using results based and prevention based metrics. We continually review our operations so that we can not only sustain our performance, but also continue to improve.
PERFORMANCE RESULTS
We routinely monitor and track health and safety data, regularly conduct management reviews and measure actual safety performance results against targeted improvements for all our operations.  
Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) and Lost Time/
Restricted Duty Incident Rate (LT/RD) are the key metrics we use to track personal safety performance. 
The people in our workforce have the right and obligation to stop any work activity they deem unsafe.
Workplace Safety Performance      The company’s 
total workforce safety performance (employees and contractors) continued to improve in 2009, with a combined injury rate that was nearly 60 percent better than in 2005. The company’s overall TRIR was ZERO
 WORK-RELATED
FATALITIES27%
IMPROVEMENT INWORKFORCE TRIR29%
DECREASE INWORKFORCE LT/RD
Gas plant, Sinphuhorm, Thailand22   |0.64, an improvement of 27 percent over 2008. The 
company demonstrated workforce safety performance improvement in nearly all business units.
Workforce Safety Performance
0.00.20.40.60.81.01.21.41.6
Workforce LT/RD (Employees and Contractors)Workforce TRIR (Employees and Contractors)1.58
1.11
0.93
0.52 0.560.64
0.400.88
2007 2005 2008 2009Cases per 200,000 hours
In 2009 there were no employee or contractor work-
related fatalities.
In 2009 our workforce logged 44.5 million hours, a 
decrease of 6 percent from 2008, primarily due to the economic downturn. Our retail business accounted for the majority of employee hours, while Exploration and Production (E&P) operations in Algeria, Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand comprised the majority of contractor hours.
2009 Workforce Hours
(44.5 million employees and contractor hours)
34%
26%11%10%7%6%1% 2% U.S. Retail 34%
U.S. Remainder 26%
Algeria 11%
Indonesia 10%
Malaysia/Thailand 7%
Equatorial Guinea 6%
U.K. 2%
Denmark 1%
Libya 1%
Australia 1%
Remainder 1%The quality of employee and contractor safety 
performance data continues to improve annually, particularly at joint venture operations as reporting protocols become more effective in operations. In 2008 the company began to collect and track process safety performance metrics across all operations. While process safety metrics are still evolving within the industry, we expect that tracking and benchmarking these metrics will enable us to better anticipate unforeseen events and improve our safety performance.
Employee Safety Performance      In 2009 we once 
again achieved our best employee safety performance since the company began to keep employee safety performance records more than 20 years ago.
The company’s employee injury rate in 2009 was 71 
percent lower than in 2002.  Our employee TRIR was 0.82, a 25 percent improvement over 2008 and 18 percent better than our 2009 target. 
Employee Safety Performance
0.00.51.01.52.02.53.0
Employee LT/RD TRIR Target Employee TRIR2.81
2.06
1.32
0.77 0.79 0.821.00
0.551.09
2007 2002 2008 2009Cases per 200,000 hours
Contractor Safety Performance     Contractors 
accounted for 47 percent of the company’s workforce hours in 2009, about 5 percent fewer than in 2008. The company enhanced its focus on contractor safety management, particularly in E&P where contractors comprise more than 75 percent of workforce hours.Safety Performance|   23In 2009 Hess leaders continued to meet regularly with 
their counterparts at contract companies to ensure alignment with Hess’ expectations for safety culture and performance. These efforts contributed to contractor safety performance at Hess improving more than 35 percent from 2008, resulting in a TRIR of 0.43.
  
Contractor Safety Performance
0.00.20.40.60.81.01.2
Contractor LT/RD Contractor TRIR1.01
0.58
0.53
0.270.340.43
0.230.68
2007 2005 2008 2009Cases per 200,000 hours
We screen new contractors to ensure their safety 
policies, practices and performance meet Hess standards. As part of this process we perform a comprehensive review of their safety performance histories and management systems, including process safety, to ensure that contractor employees are able to recognize hazards and use safe work behaviors.
Before entering a Hess facility, a contractor must 
participate in an orientation session at which expectations for safe work behaviors and site-speciﬁ  c procedures are reviewed.  
EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION
E&P achieved strong total workforce safety performance in 2009, with a TRIR of 0.37, a 38 percent improvement over 2008.
While total contractor hours were lower in 2009 
than in 2008, the challenges presented by project scope and intensity remained. E&P emphasized improvements in contractor safety to manage the risks posed by signiﬁ  cant contractor involvement in drilling 
and development activity in Algeria, Libya and Asia Paciﬁ  c; asset decommissioning in the North Sea;and a complex construction project in West Texasand New Mexico.
E&P Safety Performance (TRIR)
(Cases per 200,000 hours)
    2007 2008 2009
Employee 0.15 0.24 0.16
Contractor 0.54 0.70 0.44
Workforce* 0.47 0.60 0.37
Workforce T arget 0.50
*Employee and contractor
Drillship workers, offshore Australia
E&P implemented key processes to improve 
contractor performance. Among these were a formalized contractor engagement process, structured 24   |onboarding procedures, and a program to improve 
contractor employee retention, an effort aimed to keep experienced personnel at our operations. As a result, in 2009 contractor TRIR was 0.44, a signiﬁ  cant improvement from 0.70 in 2008.
Emergency responders drill, Algeria
SonaHess, a joint venture of Hess and Sonatrach, the national oil company of Algeria, was recognized by Hess leadership for improved safety and contractor management. The operation earned the 2009 E&P 
President’s Award for Safety Excellence . Workforce 
injury rates in Algeria’s Gassi El Agreb operation decreased in both frequency and severity, while at the Bir el M’Sana Project, more than 500,000 workforce hours were completed without a single contractor recordable incident. MARKETING AND REFINING
The Marketing and Reﬁ  ning (M&R) business’ safety performance continued to improve throughout 2009 ending the year with an employee TRIR of 1.09. This was a 22 percent improvement from the 2009 targeted rate and 24 percent better than in 2008.
M&R Safety Performance (TRIR)
(Cases per 200,000 hours)
    2007 2008 2009
Employee 1.68 1.43 1.09
Contractor 0.44 0.43 0.39
Workforce* 1.59 1.35 1.03
Employee T arget 1.40
*Employee and contractor
Retail Operations     Retail Operations, with nearly 
900 company-owned and operated retail stores and 8,000 employees, accounts for 60 percent of the company’s employee hours. In 2009 employee safety performance improved 22 percent compared to the previous year, resulting in a TRIR of 1.18. The people in Retail Operations earned the 2009 Chairman’s Award 
for Safety Excellence , the company’s most prestigious 
safety honor.
By developing and implementing a sustainable Safety 
Action Plan focusing on safety leadership, awareness, and accountability at all levels of the organization, Retail Operations improved its performance by more than 50 percent since 2006.
Terminal Operations       After four years of steadily 
improving safety performance, Terminal Operations experienced an increase in workforce TRIR from 2008 to 2009, ending the year with a rate of 0.80. Six injuries occurred in the employee and contractor workforces.Retail Operations achieved its safest year ever and earned the 
2009 Chairman’s Award for Safety Excellence.Safety Performance|   25Addressing incidents that occurred in early 2009, 
Terminal Operations instituted a Proactive Safety Program, which includes structured behavioral safety observations, near miss reporting and bi-weekly business-wide safety teleconferences designed for building safety leadership. As a result, Terminal Operations completed the last four months of 2009 injury free.
For the second consecutive year Hess Terminal 
Operations earned a safety excellence award from the International Liquid Terminals Association, whose membership includes 85 companies.
The Hess Oil St. Lucia Ltd. (HOSLL) terminal on the 
West Indies island of St. Lucia earned the 2009 M&R 
President’s Award for Safety Excellence . The HOSLL 
team worked for more than 20 months without a recordable injury and has not had a lost time injury since 2006. HOSLL is Hess’ largest terminal, with 140 employees and contractors handling 245 ships and nearly 117 million barrels of oil and reﬁ  ned productsin 2009.
Port Reading       Workforce safety performance at the 
Port Reading reﬁ  ning facility improved 45 percent in 2009 compared to 2008. Initiatives contributing to this improvement included increased engagement of the employee safety committee, an emphasis on behavioral safety observations and heightened focus on safety leadership at all levels of the organization.
HOVENSA
Workforce safety performance was mixed in 2009 at the HOVENSA joint venture reﬁ  ning facility. Employee results were higher than in 2008; contractor results were lower. Overall workforce TRIR was 0.74, 17 percent higher than 2008 and higher than the targetof 0.35.HOVENSA Safety Performance (TRIR)
Employee Contractor Total Workforce0.00.20.40.60.81.01.2 1.11
0.56
0.430.540.690.630.97
2007 2008 2009Case per 200,000 hours0.52 0.540.74
TRIR Target (Workforce)0.35
Process engineer, St. Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands
SAFETY COMMITTEES 
Safety committees, whose members include 
management as well as represented and non- represented employees, function throughout the company to help reinforce and improve safety performance and build upon experience and knowledge from management, employees, contractors and peers. They help establish and perpetuate the company’s strong safety culture.26   |Safety committee members help ensure that safety 
remains a fundamental aspect of performance, communicate to management and the workforce and provide recommendations on continuous improvement in safety performance. At our retail stores, this communication is accomplished through scheduled teleconferences between regional managers, store managers and safety captains.  
Our safety committees are integral to developing 
location-speciﬁ  c safety goals and the activities that support the achievement of those goals.  In addition to helping keep the workplace safe and injury-free, achievement of safety goals can factor into bonus compensation.  Some of our represented workforce may be eligible to receive additional compensation for safety committee participation.
Certain of our collective bargaining agreements include 
health and safety topics such as safety training and incident reporting requirements, expectations for accident investigation/root cause analysis and safety performance goals.
EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSE
Through disciplined planning and frequent drills 
of site-speciﬁ  c response and continuity plans, we continue to enhance our ability to manage an incident and its consequences, support local efforts with dedicated Incident Support Teams and manage crises with executives comprising the Corporate Crisis Management Team.
In addition to our own experts, Hess also has strategic 
relationships with experts at diverse companies with critical emergency response and crisis management experience. These companies and their people will help us in managing an emergency incident or crisis, including communications, spill containment and clean-up, and wildlife rescue and medical aid.
Hess also has regional and worldwide mutual aid and 
emergency response organization relationships that help position us to deal with an incident. We participate 
in drills and work closely with government agencies that are vital to seamless and efﬁ  cient response 
management.
Emergency preparedness drills       Major drills were 
conducted in various business units and Hess joint ventures to exercise emergency response, incident support and crisis management plans and capabilities.  Examples include:
• Hess Brasil Petroleo, Ltda., exercised its emergency 
response capability during the drilling of an exploration well in the Santos Basin, Brazil.
• Hess North Dakota Production Operations simulated 
a complex large-scale pipeline oil release to exercise the local Emergency Response Team, the Incident Support Team in Houston, Texas, and the Corporate Crisis Management Team in New York.
• Our Port Reading reﬁ  ning facility in New Jersey, 
along with the local ﬁ  re department and the county hazardous materials response team, exercised a joint response to a simulated chemical release.
• Our Port Reading reﬁ  ning facility, Hess Terminal 
Operations and two key emergency response companies participated in a drill simulating a diesel release to water from the Hess Chesapeake Terminal near the Chesapeake Bay.  
Emergency Response Team, Houston, TexasSafety Performance|   27• HOVENSA participated in a Territory-wide 
Earthquake/Tsunami exercise with the U.S. Virgin Island Ofﬁ  ce of Homeland Security, the Virgin Islands Territorial Emergency Management Agency and the National Response Corporation.
• HOVENSA conducted a Command Post and Field 
Training exercise simulating a suspected security incident at the waterfront/dock area that included the U.S. Coast Guard and the Virgin Islands Police Hazardous Device Unit.
DISEASE PREVENTION AND EDUCATION
The company has a globally consistent pandemic preparedness plan which was initiated in 2006 in response to the threat from Asian Bird Flu (H5N1).  It was strengthened in 2009 in response to the prevalence of the Novel Inﬂ  uenza A (H1N1) virus. The plan includes educating our workforce on disease prevention and helps strengthen our ability to maintain business continuity in the wake of potential business interruption from pandemic ﬂ  u.
In addition to pandemic ﬂ  u, which can affect our global 
workforce wherever the company operates, Hess has country speciﬁ  c disease prevention and education programs. For example, in Equatorial Guinea, malaria is widespread and cerebral malaria is the most prevalent and serious form of the disease. One of the company’s local social responsibility initiatives includes the 
distribution of mosquito nets and instruction on their use to communities throughout the country.
Hess maintains a facility for its foreign workers
and visitors, including a fully staffed health clinic.The physician conducts an orientation for all new arrivals, which includes general information on cerebral malaria and the proper use of anti-malarial medications, mosquito nets and bug repellants. The education session also addresses symptom recognition and the importance of seeking immediate medical attention and treatment. Each participant receives a “Malaria Cure Kit” and instructions on its proper use for diagnosis and treatment immediately upon the onset of symptoms until experienced medical care is obtained.
REGULATORY COMPLIANCE
Port Reading      In May 2009 the U.S. Occupational 
Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) completed a six-month inspection at the company’s Port Reading reﬁ  ning facility.  The inspection was conducted as part of OSHA’s industry-wide Petroleum Reﬁ  nery National Emphasis Program (NEP), announced in June 2007. OSHA is inspecting or otherwise assessing regulatory compliance, particularly in Process Safety Management, at every reﬁ  nery in the U.S. as part of this program.
In ﬁ  nal settlement with OSHA, Hess received a $97,500 
ﬁ  ne as a result of the inspection, roughly the average of what OSHA has issued to other U.S. reﬁ  neries inspected under the program.
Hess shares a common goal with OSHA in our strong 
commitment to safe operations and continuous improvement of our safety programs. We have initiated actions to address the citations issued by OSHA, and expect to meet all abatement date goals.
HOVENSA       OSHA completed a six-month NEP 
inspection at HOVENSA in November 2009 and is engaged in negotiations to determine a ﬁ  nal settlement. HOVENSA is committed to implementing, evaluating, and improving its personal and process safety management programs and performance.
Hess provided ﬂ  u shots, Houston, Texas28   |
ENVIRONMENTAL
PERFORMANCE
Coastal managementproject, Indonesia|   29STRATEGY AND APPROACH
The company is committed to protecting the 
environment and fostering sustainable development as we continue to grow our business. Our Environment, Health, Safety, our Social Responsibility and our Human Rights policies are designed to protect our workforce, our customers and the communities where we operate.  
The company’s management systems serve to uphold 
or exceed international standards and promote internal consistency, while encouraging continuous improvement in environmental performance. The Hess Principles for Operational Excellence and Global Standards include expectations for resource conservation, pollution prevention, energy efﬁ  ciency and asset remediation/decommissioning. In assessing priorities and setting goals, each of our facilities determines the materiality of these issues toits operation.  
In accordance with the precautionary principle, we 
screen our operations and products for environmental, safety, health and social risks and conduct environmental and social impact assessments for all major new projects. We monitor the impact of our operations and perform enterprise-wide data collection and analysis to identify opportunities for improvement. Our commitment to protecting and preserving the environment includes actions to eliminate oil spills, improve energy efﬁ  ciency, reduce waste and pollution and optimize facility design to minimize negative environmental impacts from our operations.
Hess has identiﬁ  ed water use as a signiﬁ  cant and 
growing issue since competing demands may have local implications where fresh water resources are constrained. We have intensiﬁ  ed our water management and use practices by examining various aspects of water sourcing, use, disposal and impacts on biodiversity. Currently in the regions wherewe operate no water sources have been identiﬁ  edas being signiﬁ  cantly affected by the company’swater consumption.
Hess has programs in place and dedicates 
signiﬁ  cant staff and ﬁ  nancial resources to ensure that the company is in compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. We regularly conduct employee training, drills and exercises to prevent and manage risks and emergencies. The company’s operations are subject to internal and third-party audits to identify deﬁ  ciencies and continuously improve our environmental performance.  
CLIMATE CHANGE
Hess understands that climate change is a global environmental concern with potentially signiﬁ  cant consequences for society and the energy industry.  We are committed to the responsible management of greenhouse gas emissions from existing and future developments and have implemented a strategy to assess, monitor and reduce our carbon footprint. We believe that establishing a global emissions market will facilitate emissions reductions in the most cost effective manner and we encourage the U.S. government to work with other countries to achieve a global solution to climate change.  
The company supports U.S. climate change legislation 
that is fair and equitable for all regulated parties. We believe that the most equitable way to implement U.S. climate change legislation is through a carbon tax on transportation fuels and a market-based mechanismfor reducing stationary source emissions.80%
REDUCTION IN OIL 
SPILL VOLUME11% GHG
EMISSIONS INTENSITY REDUCTION51%
SOLID WASTE REUSED/RECYCLED30   |During 2009 the company began implementing a 
seven point strategy for addressing climate change challenges and opportunities. The strategy was developed by the Hess Climate Change Network (CCN), whose members include senior managers and subject matter experts from across the company, and approved by the Hess Leadership Team (HLT).
Agricultural cooperative, Thailand
As presented in the 2009 Hess Annual Report, the company has an oil and gas operations’ ﬁ  ve-year greenhouse gas (GHG) intensity (emissions per unit of production) reduction target (by 2013) of 20 percent below the 2008 baseline (equity emissions). During 2009 we made substantial progress toward achieving that target, reducing emissions intensity by 11 percent against the 2008 baseline. Signiﬁ  cant emissions reductions on both an absolute and intensity basis are being achieved for our most GHG-intensive operations, 
including Phase 2 development at the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area (MTJDA Block A-18) which brought on stream ﬁ  elds with signiﬁ  cantly lower 
carbon dioxide content gas.
Going forward we will continue to pursue emissions 
reduction initiatives, particularly in anticipation of an increased level of economic activity, in order to achieve our 2013 target.
As part of our climate change strategy, we have also 
committed to reducing by 50 percent our combined ﬂ  aring emissions at our operations in Algeria and Equatorial Guinea by 2013. In 2009 we made substantial progress toward this target, reducing ﬂ  aring by 45 percent (combined) in Algeria and Equatorial Guinea.     
The CCN is working on providing guidance on 
incorporating carbon costs and evaluating industry best practices during the design of production facilities to minimize emissions. We anticipate that this guidance will be available to all of our business units during the 2011 planning cycle.  
HESS LEADERSHIP TEAM
OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE
LEADERSHIP TEAM
CLIMATE CHANGE NETWORK
Work Groups:
Policy
Energy Efficiency
Flaring, Venting and CCS
Carbon Markets
While facility level energy efﬁ  ciency improvements have 
been an integral part of our business process, as part of our overall climate strategy we have committed to develop a corporate-wide energy management system. This system will help us operate existing facilities more efﬁ  ciently, reduce energy costs, consider the use of renewable energy where practical and design energy efﬁ  ciency into all new major capital projects.  Environmental Performance|   31To develop and implement this system, we have 
assembled an energy efﬁ  ciency work group within our CCN that is chaired by a senior business leader and staffed with technical specialists. We will report on future progress once we establish our baseline, develop action plans and implement targets.
In 2009 Hess fulﬁ  lled its commitment to annually 
purchase from renewable sources at least 10 percent of the electricity we use for our operations. We purchased Renewable Energy Certiﬁ  cates (RECs) for electricity generated from wind power to meet this target. In addition, for the ﬁ  rst time, Hess purchased Green-e certiﬁ  ed carbon credits to offset 100 percent of 2009 employee business travel on commercial air carriers. Hess Energy Marketing also increased its participation in the voluntary carbon markets in 2009 on behalf of internal and external customers.    As a signiﬁ  cant emitter of greenhouse gases, Hess 
recognizes the ﬁ  nancial implication, risks and opportunities on our business, products and services associated with climate change. We continuously evaluate a full range of practical and cost effective options to responsibly manage and mitigate our greenhouse gas emissions. Despite the disappointing outcome of the 2009 Copenhagen process and the lack of consensus for U.S. climate change legislation, we are working to manage and minimize our carbon footprint in this highly uncertain regulatory environment.  
Due to a gradual phase in of potential U.S. climate 
change regulation and our geographic distribution of assets, we do not anticipate a signiﬁ  cant ﬁ  nancial impact from carbon regulations during the nextﬁ  ve years.
CLIMATE CHANGE STRATEGY
Strategy Progress
Establish and publicly communicate a ﬁ  ve-year 
GHG emissions intensity reduction target.Hess set GHG intensity reduction target (equity basis) for 2013 that 
is 20 percent below company’s 2008 baseline. In 2009 we achieved a 11 percent GHG intensity reduction against the baseline.
Account for the cost of carbon in all signiﬁ  cant 
future investment decisions.Will be implemented for 2011 planning cycle.
Evaluate industry best practices to minimize 
emissions when designing production facilities.In process of incorporating into production planning process.
Reduce ﬂ  aring in Algeria and Equatorial Guinea 
by 50 percent over the next ﬁ  ve years.In 2009 company achieved a 45 percent reduction against
this target.
Implement a corporate-wide energy efﬁ  ciency 
program focused on major combustion sources and greater use of renewable sources.In process of establishing corporate baseline, collecting business 
unit data for ongoing energy efﬁ  ciency projects, evaluating additional opportunities and establishing goals and targets.
Purchase at least 10 percent of annual 
electricity for company operations from renewable sources.Purchased 11 percent of annual electricity for company operations 
from renewable sources in 2009. Purchased carbon credits to offset all employee business travel on commercial aircarriers in 2009.
Through our Green-e program, offer Hess Energy 
Marketing customers a full suite of products to help them minimize their carbon footprints.Ongoing program.32   |GREENHOUSE GAS PERFORMANCE
Our major direct sources (Scope 1) of greenhouse 
gas emissions are ﬂ  aring and fuel combustion. We also generate indirect emissions (Scope 2) when we use purchased electricity. The company tracks GHG emissions on both a Hess operated and a Hess net-equity basis. In addition to reporting GHG emissions from our operations, we also include an estimate of other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) associated with third party transport and the end use of petroleum products and natural gas that weprocess, reﬁ  ne and sell.
Hess Operated Emissions      Our GHG emissions 
from operated assets decreased from 11.3 million tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent (CO
2e) in 2008 to 
9.1 million tonnes CO2e in 2009. Of the 9.1 million 
tonnes of GHG emissions, 8.5 million tonnes were Scope 1 (direct) emissions primarily from ﬂ  aring and process operations and 0.6 million tonnes were Scope 2 (indirect) emissions related to purchased electricity usage. Emissions related to direct transportation from operated assets were 10,000 tonnes of CO
2e.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions (CO2e)
2007 2008 2009
GHG (excl. JDA) MTJDA Block A-18024681012
6.40 6.305.00
3.77
5.33GHG (Million Tonnes)
The 2.2 million tonne reduction in GHG emissions 
from 2008 is primarily due to two projects. A major gas compression reinjection project was undertaken at Gassi El Agreb in Algeria by SonaHess, a joint operating company of Sonatrach and Hess, to enhance oil production which has had the effect of reducing GHG ﬂ  aring emissions by 79 percent. This project resulted in GHG emissions reductions of 1.0 million tonnes in 
2009. In addition greenhouse gas emissions at the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area (MTJDA Block A-18) were reduced by an additional 1.2 million tonnes in 2009 post Phase 2 development.
Operated Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Source
(9.10 million tonnes)
56%33%7%4% Flaring                  56%
Fuel Combustion    33%
Indirect Emissions    7%
Other                      4%
In the short term, JDA Phase 2 development has 
resulted in lower CO2 content of the production stream. 
In the longer term, together with the Malaysia/Thailand authorities, we are conducting joint studies to examine a range of CO
2 management technologies including 
CO2-enhanced hydrocarbon recovery and subsurface 
CO2 sequestration. The commercial and political viability 
of carbon capture and sequestration in general will be signiﬁ  cantly inﬂ  uenced by the framework of future carbon policy and any post-Kyoto agreement.
Hess Net Equity Emissions       In 2009 our net equity 
emissions were estimated to be 9.5 million tonnes CO
2e, a 1.3 million tonne reduction from 2008. This 
reduction was primarily due to the projects in Algeria and the MTJDA Block A-18 discussed previously. We began quantifying GHG emissions from our net equity (ﬁ  nancial) interests in 2007. This is a complicated process as we have net equity interests in various projects around the world which are operated by other companies.
Hess believes that net equity emissions are a more 
meaningful measure of our total carbon footprint. As a result, we have set our ﬁ  ve year 20 percent GHG Environmental Performance|   33emissions intensity reduction target against our 2008 
equity emissions baseline. In 2008 our equity emissions per unit of production resulted in a GHG intensity of 44 tonnes per thousand barrels of oil equivalent. By 2013 we intend to reduce this number by 20 percent to 35 tonnes per thousand barrels of oil equivalent. At year end 2009, our emissions intensity stood at 39 tonnes per thousand barrels of oil equivalent, an 11 percent reduction against our baseline.
Net Equity Greenhouse Gas Emissions
2008 2009 2013024681012
10.8
39
35
Target449.5
Hess M&R
Hess E&P
MTJDA Block A-18
SonaHess JVHOVENSA JV
Non-operated E&P
Samara-Nafta
Normalized GHG253035404550GHG (Million Tonnes)
Emissions Rate (Tonnes/1000 BOE)
The majority of our net equity emissions is concentrated 
in a select group of countries where we have signiﬁ  cant upstream and downstream operations. These include Algeria; Equatorial Guinea; Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area, Block A-18; the United Kingdom and the United States. 
   Hess Net Equity Emissions by Country 
(9.5 million tonnes CO2e)
U.S.V.I.    26%
U.S. 21%
MTJDA Block A-18  20%
Equatorial Guinea  13%
Other countries
(<2% each) 9%
U.K. 5%
Algeria 4%
Thailand 2%26%
20%21%9%
13%5%4%2%
Other Countries:
Azerbaijan  0.5%
Denmark    1.3%
Gabon        1.3%Indonesia   1.6%Libya 1.3%Norway 1.5%
Russia 1.6%
Gas reinjection project, AlgeriaIn 2009 our greenhouse gas emissions from operated assets 
decreased from 11.3 million to 9.1 million tonnes CO2 equivalent 
from the previous year.34   |End-Use Product Emissions      In 2008 for the 
ﬁ  rst time, Hess produced an estimate of GHG emissions associated with the end use of our fuel and other products, commonly referred to as “Scope 3” emissions. Currently there is no established methodology to calculate end use product emissions. After again reviewing methodologies used to gather and report Scope 3 emissions, we have modiﬁ  ed our approach to include the emissions related to the products that we reﬁ  ne and sell, as well as the natural gas that we process and sell for end-use consumption. We have excluded emissions associated with products that are manufactured by others and purchased for resale by Hess. Based on this methodology we estimate our Scope 3 emissions from products at 46 million tonnes of CO
2e in 2009, of which 
approximately 45 percent is related to product use in mobile sources and 55 percent is related to product use in stationary sources.
Other Scope 3 Emissions       In addition to product 
end use emissions, in 2008 the company initiated efforts to collect logistics and supply chain data in order to expand our coverage of Scope 3 emissions. We began by calculating Scope 3 emissions associated with the ocean transport of feedstock to our Port Reading reﬁ  nery and land based third party delivery of reﬁ  ned petroleum products to our retail stores and Energy Marketing customers. In 2009 these Scope 3 emissions were respectively 55,905 and 32,782 tonnes CO
2e. 
We also indirectly generated 12,000 tonnes CO2e from 
employee business travel and long-haul commuting on commercial air carriers and purchased carbon offsets 
for 100 percent of these emissions. In 2010 we are collecting additional external logistics data so that we can more fully report on our Scope 3 footprint.Environmental Performance
Notes:
Annual production for sale of liquid fuels in bbls and natural gas in MM BTU.#  GHG factors in CO
2 Tonnes/bbl. for liquids and Tonnes/MM BTU for gas based on EPA rule for mandatory GHG reporting, except JDA gas factor 
which is adjusted for CO2 content in gas sales.Petroleum Product Annual Production GHG Factor # CO2 (MM Tonnes) 2009 Memo: CO2 (MM Tonnes) 2008
Gasoline 38,869,200 0.37 14.4 15.8
Diesel 22,069,800 0.43  9.5 11.3
Residual Oil 11,034,900 0.49 5.4 5.0
Natural Gas 258,649,950 0.0646 16.7 15.3
TOTAL 46.0 47.4Estimated C02 Emissions from Petroleum Products
Port Reading Reﬁ  nery, New Jersey|   35ENERGY USE AND EFFICIENCY
Our Climate Change Network’s Energy Efﬁ  ciency Work 
Group is chartered to make energy management an integral part of the company’s business strategy and to guide continuous improvement in energy efﬁ  ciency. This involves identifying opportunities to operate existing facilities as efﬁ  ciently as possible, considering the use of renewable energy where practical and designing energy efﬁ  ciency into all new major capital projects. During 2009 our company was an active member of IPIECA’s Energy Efﬁ  ciency Work Group, cooperating with our industry peers to identify and share best practices.
Energy Use       Our operations primarily use energy 
to generate electricity and process heat and steam. In 2009 energy consumption from direct and indirect sources was approximately 56 million gigajoules, an increase of 7 percent compared to 2008.
Three-year Energy Use (thousand gigajoules)
2007 2008 2009
Direct Indirect010,00020,00030,00040,00050,00060,000
34,6889,485
42,9269,1109,889
45,969
Within our Exploration and Production (E&P) business 
Global Drilling’s direct energy use doubled due to increased activity in Australia, Equatorial Guinea, Indonesia and Libya. Two major enhanced oil recovery projects contributed to E&P’s increased energy use.In Algeria, the Gassi El Agreb gas compression and reinjection project operated for the full year, resulting in a 26 percent increase in direct energy use while indirect energy was reduced by 99 percent. In West Texas, Permian Basin Production’s purchased electricity rose by 75 percent due to the Residual Oil Zone enhanced oil recovery project. In our Marketing and Reﬁ  ning business, total energy use was 4 percent higher than in 2008 due to the colder winter in the 
Eastern United States.Overall, about 78 percent of the company’s direct 
energy was from natural gas. This fuel provided almost 80 percent of E&P’s direct energy while M&R’s Port Reading reﬁ  nery relied on petroleum coke for about63 percent of its direct energy supply.
2009 Energy Use By Country (thousand gigajoules)
34%
23%12%10%9%6%<1% 3% 3%
  *MTJDA Block A-18
** Other includes Australia, Ghana and LibyaU.S. (E&P) 19,169
U.S. (M&R) 12,660
Malaysia/
Thailand JDA* 6,777
Algeria 5,790
Equatorial Guinea 4,817
United Kingdom 3,101
Denmark 1,879
Indonesia 1,478
Other** ( < 1%) 187
Total 55,858
Direct Energy Use By Fuel Source (thousand gigajoules)
2007 2008 2009
Natural Gas Petroleum Coke Diesel Fuel Oil010,00020,00030,00040,00050,000
22,5285,508
31,7745,6665,922
5,9444,8053,600
708681688
35,759
Operations in the U.S. account for more than 99
percent of the company’s indirect energy use, which is primarily purchased electricity from regional and state power pools in the Eastern U.S., New Mexico, Texas and North Dakota. Approximately 6 percent of the power generation fuel mix was from renewable energy 
sources, primarily wind, hydropower and biomass.
The company also purchased 100,000 Green-e 
certiﬁ  ed Renewable Energy Certiﬁ  cates which increased the renewable energy component of our purchased 
electricity to about 16 percent.36   |Indirect Energy Use By Fuel Source* (thousand gigajoules)
49%
23%20%6%2%
 Coal 4,844
Natural Gas 2,216
Nuclear 2,012
Renewables 621
Petroleum and
Other Gases 196
Total 9,889
* Based on U.S. EIA state energy 
profiles and PJM, NYISO and ISO New England power pool data.
Energy Efficiency Initiatives       Hess businesses are 
working to improve energy efficiency and reduce costs, 
while meeting customers’ fuel and convenience needs.  
In Retail Marketing, for example, employees reduced 
electricity usage by 30 million kWh, or 10 percent, 
during the past several years by adopting new work 
habits and approaches.
The company partnered with local utility companies 
to identify and then install energy efficient equipment, 
including Energy Management Systems and energy 
efficient lighting technology at retail stores. The new 
approach automatically optimizes lighting levels, air 
conditioning and heating equipment, refrigeration 
temperatures and appliance usage to reduce electricity 
consumption. In addition, because reducing energy 
consumption often involves changes in behavior, we 
have implemented new processes to help employees 
increase their involvement.
The Hess Information Technology (IT) organization 
initiated a “Green IT” program. IT studies show that 
as much as 39 percent of office building energy 
consumption is related to computers. Energy efficiency 
improvements include high efficiency hardware and 
software that allows server virtualization and night-
time hibernation of desktop computers and monitors 
to significantly reduce equipment cooling needs and 
computer energy use.Our HOVENSA joint venture refinery in St. Croix 
conducted an energy efficiency review and identified 
steam leaks and flare reduction as priority areas for 
energy improvement. Over the past two years the 
refinery implemented extensive monitoring of steam 
and flare systems to identify and mitigate energy loss.  
The next step in this process is to identify priority 
capital projects to improve energy efficiency through 
improved process heat recovery. These projects will be 
implemented over the next few years.
AIr EmISSIonS
Our operations generate other types of air emissions in 
addition to greenhouse gas emissions.  
Criteria Pollutants       Process operations and flaring 
activities result in emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx) and 
sulfur oxides (SOx).  Product loading, fuel dispensing 
and flaring activities are the main sources of volatile 
organic compound (VOC) emissions. Between 2008 
and 2009 absolute NOx emissions decreased slightly Environmental Performance
Engineer at Tioga Gas Plant, north Dakota|   37and absolute SO2 emissions were ﬂ  at. On a normalized 
basis, NOx and SO2 emissions decreased by 10 percent 
and 2 percent, respectively, due to higher production volumes. During 2009 a ramp up of production activity in North Dakota resulted in an absolute increase in VOC emissions of approximately 8,000 tonnes, partially offset by lower emissions in Algeria. The increased VOC emissions were associated with ﬂ  ash gas originating from tank batteries. Vapor recovery unit capture equipment is being installed mid-2010 to minimize future VOC emissions from this operation.  
2007 2008 2009 % Change
NOx 27.3 23.7 21.4 (10)
SO26.04 6.45 6.29 (2)
VOCs 72.6 59.5 62.3 5 Criteria Pollutant (tonnes per million BOE)
Ozone depleting substances       Within our operations 
ozone-depleting substances (ODSs) are primarily used in refrigeration and air conditioning equipment and for ﬁ  re suppression and explosion protection. Hess uses certiﬁ  ed technicians to service and maintain equipment containing Class I and Class II refrigerants and to record refrigerant consumption at all U.S. locations.We are not aware of any material instances of ODS releases from our operated assets in 2009.
MATERIAL USE
Responsible use of natural resources is a core component of our Social Responsibility Value and one way Hess minimizes its environmental footprint. We look for opportunities to improve our operations and reduce costs through more efﬁ  cient use of natural resources. For example, we have successfully used recycled and regenerated materials to reduce our dependence on raw materials, fresh water and chemicals, such as catalysts and sulfuric acid, in our daily operations. Since the vast majority of our products are sold in bulk, there is very little use of packing material.FRESHWATER USE
In 2009 Hess used 67 million barrels of fresh water 
for processing, cooling and oil and gas reservoir management, including 63 percent from groundwater wells and 37 percent from municipal sources. No water sources were identiﬁ  ed as being signiﬁ  cantly affected by 
the company’s water consumption.
Freshwater Use
010203040506070
2007 2008 2009*
Groundwater/Surface water
*Includes Retail and Terminal OperationsMunicipal24.116.6 38.015.724.7
42.5Million bbls
Seminole Gas Plant, Texas
Although reported fresh water usage increased 25 
percent (13 million barrels) from 2008, approximately 8.4 million barrels of that increase was attributable to the company’s ﬁ  rst time inclusion of Retail and Terminal operations in its freshwater usage data. 38   |The remainder of the increase can be attributed to 
water use at the Seminole gas plant in West Texas primarily for cooling purposes. Groundwater at Seminole represents about 0.10 percent of regional groundwater abstraction from the Ogallala aquifer.
Freshwater Use by Operation
57%
22%11%4%4%2%
Seminole Gas Plant   57%
Port Reading             22%
Retail                       11%
Sea Robin Gas Plant    4%
Tioga Gas Plant           2%
Other                         4%
As part of our effort to conserve water Seminole uses 
its cooling system blowdown water for oil reservoir management. At the Port Reading Reﬁ  nery we replace a portion of our fresh water consumption with process water at the wet gas scrubber. 
HOVENSA meets most of its water needs through 
onsite desalination of sea water supplemented by groundwater. In 2009 groundwater consumption was 2.8 million barrels, which was 13 percent less than 2008 and 47 percent less than 2007. The facility reuses more than three quarters of the ﬂ  uid catalytic cracking units’ treated wastewater efﬂ  uent in other reﬁ  nery activities.
DISCHARGES
Regulatory authorities permit several speciﬁ  c types of 
controlled discharges including wastewater efﬂ  uent and storm water runoff associated with both upstream and downstream operations, as well as produced water, drill cuttings and drilling ﬂ  uids associated with upstream operations.
Offshore Discharges       Offshore discharges typically 
consist of drill cuttings, which are rock fragments removed from the subsurface during well drilling, and drilling mud, which is used to lubricate drill bits 
and control downhole pressure. Residual drilling mud adheres to drill cuttings and contains small amounts of oil. In 2009 approximately 26,000 barrels 
of drill cutting and 70,000 barrels of drilling mud, which contained 3,513 barrels of oil, were discharged from 
offshore facilities.
South Arne Platform, Danish North Sea
Produced water is mainly salty water trapped in reservoir 
rock and coproduced with oil and gas. In 2009, 54 million barrels of produced water were discharged, which is 10 million fewer barrels than were discharged during the previous year. The level of oil in produced water discharged averaged 19 parts per million (ppm), well below the accepted regulatory limit of 30 to 40 ppm. The produced water discharged contained 1,050 barrels of oil, half of which came from the company’s North Sea operations. Compared to 2008 levels, the volume of oil discharged offshore decreased 19 percent, largely as a result of 340 fewer barrels of discharge at the company’s North Sea operations.Environmental Performance|   39Oil in Produced Water Discharges to Sea
0510152025
Oil Volume in Produced Water (bbls)
Oil Concentration in Produced Water (ppmv)Oil Volume in Produced Water
(bbls)
Oil Concentration in Produced Water
(ppmV)
02004006008001,0001,2001,4001,6001,8002,000
20071,193
20091,050
20081,304152019
Onshore Discharges       Onshore exploration and 
production generated 116 million barrels of produced water, of which 44 percent was reinjected for disposal and 56 percent was reinjected for reservoir management. No produced water was discharged to surface water.
In the U.S., wastewater and storm water discharges to surface water are permitted under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System. Facility speciﬁ  c efﬂ  uent quality requirements are establishedbased on expected control technology performance and aquatic protection. Overall, 97 percent of gas plant and 99.5 percent of terminal and reﬁ  nery storm water and wastewater discharges complied with permit 
requirements. Port Reading and HOVENSA discharged 6.9 million and 21.2 million barrels of treated wastewater, respectively. Both reﬁ  nery discharges were well within 
permitted efﬂ  uent limits.
HOVENSA installed an aboveground wastewater 
treatment system which is capable of handling the reﬁ  nery’s entire wastewater ﬂ  ow. This new wastewater treatment plant reduces the possibility of groundwater contamination, provides ﬂ  exibility in handling segregated and combined waste streams and improves the quality of water recovered for reuse.
SPILLS
Hess operations around the world produce, process, 
reﬁ  ne, transport and sell oil and gas products. Although we carefully monitor these activities, spills can occur that have the potential to impact the environment.
To prevent spills each of our operations has controls in 
place, including equipment inspection and preventive maintenance programs, secondary containment and alarm systems and spill response and mitigation plans. These programs help us to react quickly to identify and correct the root causes of spills and prevent future occurrences.
We track two categories of spills: oil spills and other 
spills. Oil spills are tracked and aggregated monthlyon a companywide basis and are reported to theHess Leadership Team. Other spills are reportedas appropriate.
Oil Spills       In 2009 there were 124 crude oil and 
reﬁ  ned petroleum fuel spills, 6 percent fewer than in 2008. These totaled 267 barrels of oil, 80 percent less than in 2008. There were no oil spills greater than 50 barrels; 64 percent of oil spills were less than one barrel; 91 percent were land spills that were readily contained and removed; 11 oil spills, totaling ﬁ  ve barrels of oil, were to surface water.
HOVENSA reported eight oil spills in 2009 amounting to 
ﬁ  ve barrels of oil, of which four oil spills were to water 
and four were to land.     Port Reading HOVENSA
2007 2008 2009 2007 2008 2009
Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) 2.9 8.1 40.7 171.2 124.5 28.5
Suspended solids 4.4 6.4 45.4 283.8 293.9 243.8
Hydrocarbons* 1.9 5.1 5.3 36.2 33.1 20.3Reﬁ nery Wastewater Emissions (U.S. tons)
*Total petroleum hydrocarbons for Port Reading and oil and grease for HOVENSA40   |Environmental Performance
Oil Spills
0306090120150
Volume of oil spills (bbls) Number of oil spills (#)Volume of Oil Spills (bbls)
Number of Oil Spills (#)
02004006008001,0001,2001,400
2007458
2009267
20081,349129132
124
Other Spills       Company operations require the use 
of a range of liquids. Those tracked in the “other spills” category include drilling ﬂ  uids, hydraulic and lubricating oils, acids and caustics, and oil and water mixtures.
In 2009 there were 49 spills (including 12 also 
tracked in the oil spill category) amounting to 3,744 barrels of liquid. Nine of these non-hydrocarbon spills, totaling more than 3,300 barrels were to land and accounted for 89 percent of the volume spilled. One, a 52 barrel spill of ﬂ  are condensate water at our Port Reading reﬁ  nery, leaked from a knockout drum onto the ground and was immediately recovered. Impacted soil was excavated.  
The remaining eight land spills were all produced water 
spills; the largest two, 1,215 and 460 barrels respectively, occurred in the Permian Basin. Both were related to line leaks which were quickly repaired. HOVENSA reported one other spill in 2009, of negligible volume.
      
HYDRAULIC FRACTURING
The presence of vast amounts of oil and natural 
gas in low-permeability formations (including deep shale formations) has been known for years. These hydrocarbons have become recoverable due to a combination of sophisticated horizontal drilling and well stimulation methods. 
One of the major components of the well completion 
is hydraulic fracturing, a well stimulation method in which a mixture of water, a propping agent such as sand and special purpose additives, is pumped under high pressure into the hydrocarbon-bearing underground rock formation. The fractures that are 
created are propped open, allowing oil or natural gas to ﬂ  ow into the well. Special purpose ﬂ  uid additives designed to enhance performance typically make up less than 1 percent of the hydraulic fracturing ﬂ  uid.
Accompanying the recent increase in well stimulations 
using this technology is a heightened level of public attention regarding environmental and public health impacts related to hydraulic fracturing. Concerns have been raised about protection of drinking water supplies, aquatic habitat, freshwater, chemical use, wastewater management and truck trafﬁ  c, among others. The hydrocarbon-bearing formations are typically found thousands of feet below the water table and the wells are lined with multiple layers of steel pipe and encased in cement to depths well below the deepest fresh water aquifer, thus preventing ﬂ  uids or gas from seeping into the ground water. 
We believe that well planned and properly executed 
hydraulic fracturing stimulation treatments of production wells are safe for the environment and the public and a necessary part of producing key resources that help foster energy security. Over the past several years Hess has conducted operations in the Bakken North Dakota shale play with no cases of groundwater impact caused by hydraulic fracturing operations.
Groundwater
AquifersMunicipal Water Well              < 1,000 ft.
Protective
Steel CasingAdditional steel 
casings and 
cement to protect 
groundwater|   41MARCELLUS SHALE
The Marcellus Shale (the Marcellus) is an organic 
rich rock formation. According to estimates it contains up to 500 trillion cubic feet of natural gas in place. The formation underlies most of West Virginia and Pennsylvania as well as portions of eastern Ohio and southcentral New York. 
In 2009 the company acquired leases for 80,000 net 
acres of privately held land in northeast Pennsylvania.  Development of this acreage is subject to regulation by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PADEP), the Delaware River Basin Commission (DRBC) and/or the SusquehannaRiver Basin Commission (SRBC) with certain aspects regulated by other federal, state and local agencies.As part of our compliance management system, we track regulatory developments and attend multi-stakeholder and industry association meetings. At the local level, we consult with landowners to understand and address their expectations for wells located on their property. We will also meet with the PADEP, DRBC, SRBC and municipal authorities as we prepare permit applications.
A Marcellus horizontal well hydraulic fracturing 
job typically requires three to ﬁ  ve million gallons of fracturing ﬂ  uid. The fracturing ﬂ  uids applicable to the Marcellus commonly contain less than 1 percent special purpose additives, equal to about 15,000 to 50,000 gallons. The additives include chemicals that can also be found in consumer products and in municipal water treatment plants. Oil ﬁ  eld service suppliers are required to have Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) that include information on chemical ingredients in their additives to the extent possible while still protecting proprietary formulations. Stakeholders have requested more comprehensive information on all chemical constituents be readily available. The New York Department of Environmental Conservation (NYDEC) Web site (http://www.dec.ny.gov/docs/materials_minerals_pdf/ogdsgeischap5.pdf) provides a listing of many of the chemicals used in fracturing ﬂ  uids and further details.Hess is fully committed to protecting the ecosystems 
in the areas where we operate. We place the highest priority on working with our well stimulation contractors to ensure the use of a precautionary approach when conducting hydraulic fracturing operations. We are also investigating methods to minimize the environmental impact of hydraulic fracturing, including recycling ﬂ owback water, non-chemical treatments and sourcing 
of lower impact chemistries for additives such as friction reducers and surfactants.
We have been meeting with potential suppliers to 
deﬁ  ne acceptable ﬂ  uid systems for Hess activities in the Marcellus and to encourage them to use ﬂ  uids with the lowest possible toxicity and amount of chemical additives that are both functional and cost effective.  Post contract award, we will work with our selected suppliers to reﬁ  ne their ﬂ  uids to reduce the amount of chemical additives and reduce, or where possible eliminate toxicity.
We continue to reinforce to suppliers our prohibition 
on the use of diesel oil in fracturing ﬂ  uids and support public disclosure of chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing that balances public and proprietary interests. We intend to work with our suppliers, industry participants, state authorities and appropriate stakeholders to keep the public informed, including through the possibility of a common industry Web site.
We are committed to working with key authorities 
such as PADEP, DBRC, SBRC and others to meet or exceed all regulatory standards and best management practices applicable to hydraulic fracturing. These include wastewater storage, monitoring, reuse, treatment and disposal, groundwater and surface water protection, water withdrawals and water quality monitoring (pre- and post-drilling, where appropriate); transportation and onsite management of chemicals and other materials; onsite storage, transportation, disposal and cradle-to-grave tracking of wastes; and control of air emissions.42   |SOLID WASTE 
In 2009, 93 percent of the solid waste generated by our 
operations was classiﬁ  ed as non-hazardous and more than 50 percent was reused or recycled. Typical waste streams include construction waste, oily tank bottoms, contaminated soil, spent acids and caustics, used catalyst and scrap metal and wood. Spent caustic was shipped to paper plants for process use; spent catalyst was reprocessed and recycled in cement plants; and spent acid was regenerated for reuse.
Waste Generation (U.S. tons)
2007 2008 2009
Non-Hazardous Hazardous020,00040,00060,00080,000100,000120,000140,000160,000
108,304
110,6625.0010,462
2,7811,188
129,151
In 2009 total waste generated increased 23 percent 
or 26,000 tons over the prior year. This increase was primarily related to more robust data collection efforts at our drilling sites. It was partially offset by a signiﬁ  cant reduction in waste from less rebuild construction at retail stores. Hazardous waste generation increased approximately 8,000 tons in 2009, primarily due to the cleanout of our Port Reading Reﬁ  nery’s wastewater treatment plant equalization tank. No waste considered hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention was exported from our operations.2009 Waste Management Methods
Reuse/Recycle         51%
Landfill                   25%
External Wastewater
Treatment                16%
Deepwell disposal       4%
Landfarm                  3%
Incinerated                1% 51%
25%16%4%3%1%
HOVENSA generated 12,299 tons of non-hazardous 
waste and 7,820 tons of hazardous waste during 2009.  HOVENSA reused or recycled 95 percent of hazardous waste and 39 percent of non-hazardous waste. Total waste volume increased 12 percent between 2008 and 2009 but was ﬂ  at between 2007 and 2009.
 HOVENSA Waste Generation (U.S. tons)
2007 2008 2009
Non-Hazardous Hazardous04,0008,00012,00016,00020,00024,000
12,523
11,1557,820
6,8297,918
12,299Environmental Performance|   43ENVIRONMENTAL EXPENDITURES
The company conducts remediation as necessary at 
sites where our activities or those of previous owners have resulted in soil and groundwater contamination. These sites may include gas stations, terminals, onshore exploration and production facilities and reﬁ  neries.
Hess accrues for environmental assessment and 
remediation expenditures for known sites when the future costs are probable and can be reasonably estimated. At the end of 2009 the company’s reserve for estimated environmental liabilities was approximately $55 million which is expected to be more than sufﬁ  cient to cover costs of assessing and remediating known sites. As they were in 2007 and 2008 environmental assessment and remediation expenditures were approximately $11 million in 2009. 
In 2009 capital expenditures related to compliance with 
federal, state and local environmental standards at Hess operated facilities were not material to the company.
The application of green remediation techniques is an 
important aspect of the company’s approach. Hess has used off-grid solar and wind powered groundwater remediation equipment on an ongoing basis at multiple locations. In addition, phytoremediation and passive technologies have been used successfully.
Within the Hess Remediation Alliance (the Alliance), 
which includes Hess remediation staff and the company’s key remediation contractors, the Green Remediation Team was formed to investigate and inform Alliance members of successes, lessons learned, and potential for implementation of green remediation strategies. Shared supplier information and knowledge exchange are used to generate and evaluate current and potential applications of green remediation 
methods. Progress in these areas is reported out to the Alliance during routine Remediation Management Team meetings to be used in planning the way forward on remediation activity in our portfolio.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
Hess Corporation routinely provides current information on environmental legal matters relating to the company’s wholly owned and joint venture operations and legacy liabilities in SEC Forms 10-K and 10-Q. The status of legal proceedings at the end of 2009 is detailed in Item 3 of the company’s 2009 SEC Form10-K. This information is also available to the publicon the company’s Web site, www.hess.com.
Remediation project, Chesapeake, VirginiaThe application of green remediation techniques is an 
important aspect of the company’s environmental approach.44   |Exceedances and Enforcement Actions
Company policy reinforces our fundamental 
commitment to full compliance with applicable 
environment, health and safety laws and regulations.  
While compliance is our objective, exceedances 
of permitted levels can occur, as do citations from 
regulatory authorities.
During 2009 the total fines paid were approximately 
$265,000, of which $115,000 was related to settlement 
of a fuels compliance action brought against the 
company in 2005. The monetary penalties paid in 2009 
were approximately $900,000 less than the prior year.
BIoDIVErSITY
In some areas our company faces the challenge of 
conducting operations in a manner that protects 
habitats with significant biodiversity value. Many 
of our operations, particularly those in offshore or 
coastal zones, are located in environments where the 
protection of migratory, as well as local species is an 
important consideration.
As part of our precautionary approach we conduct 
biodiversity screenings to identify protected areas and 
species as part of feasibility determinations and site 
selection for major new projects. We also routinely 
conduct biodiversity screening at existing operating 
locations as part of our emergency and oil spill 
response planning programs.
Upstream operations       As part of major new project 
planning we conduct environmental baseline surveys 
and environmental and social impact assessments 
(ESIAs). We utilize the best available guidelines and 
tools, such as those developed by the Energy and 
Biodiversity Initiative, the Wildlife Conservation Society, 
the International Union for Conservation of Nature 
(IUCN) and the International Petroleum Industry 
Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA) to 
assess and manage biodiversity sensitivities. ESIAs are performed by experienced third-party 
consultants in accordance with local requirements, as 
well as International Finance Corporation and World 
Bank guidance. The findings are considered in final 
site selection and project design and addressed in 
environmental management plans. The ESIAs include 
screening of flora and fauna against the IUCN Red 
List, as well as local and national threatened and 
endangered species lists. 
During offshore exploration we follow Joint Nature 
Conservation Committee Guidelines (JNCC) for 
minimizing acoustic disturbances to marine mammals 
and employ JNCC-certified Marine Mammal Observers 
when conducting 2D and 3D seismic surveys. We also 
use electromagnetic surveys which have lower impacts 
on marine mammals than seismic surveys.Environmental Performance
Hess operates in diverse ecosystems, including Equatorial Guinea|   45Hess operates the Sinphuhorm Natural Gas Field in 
Thailand’s Udon Thani and Khon Kaen provinces. The wellheads and gas gathering lines are partially located within the 322 acre Phu Kao-Phu Phan Kham National Park, an IUCN Category V protected area that includes the Ubonrat Dam and reservoir, tourist facilities, archeological sites and deciduous forests. The company is engaged in a multi-year reforestation program and is working with national and provincial forest ﬁ  re management committees on comprehensive forest ﬁ  re prevention programs.
Downstream Operations       The Port Reading reﬁ  ning 
facility, the U.S. and St. Lucia terminals and the HOVENSA joint venture reﬁ  nery on St. Croix have emergency and spill response plans that identify federal and state-listed endangered, threatened and vulnerable species of fauna and ﬂ  ora. Biodiversity and sensitive ecosystems are included in vulnerability analyses and addressed in facility speciﬁ  c spill protection and response plans.
These plans have identiﬁ  ed various species of migratory 
sea turtles such as the hawksbill, leatherback, Kemp’s ridley, green and loggerhead that are characterized as either endangered or critically endangered under federal and state laws and regulations, as well as by IUCN.
IUCN Category Number of Species
Critically endangered 4
Endangered 3Vulnerable 3Near threatened 6IUCN Red List SpeciesWithin downstream operations there are ongoing 
initiatives to protect, promote and restore local biodiversity. For example, Corporate Remediation and the Chesapeake Terminal are actively engaged in the restoration of the Elizabeth River through our membership in the Elizabeth River Project.
Green sea turtle near St. Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands
Our HOVENSA joint venture refinery maintains wildlife rescue equipment and assists natural resource agencies such as the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service, the National Park Service, the Cooperative Fish and Wildlife Research Unit of the U.S. Geological Survey and the Virgin Islands Division of Fish and Wildlife in monitoring, protecting, and rescuing wildlife, with particular interest in the protected Least tern and hawksbill, leatherback and green sea turtles.Biodiversity screenings are performed to identify protected 
areas and species prior to project development.46   |
GLOBAL
WORKFORCE
Worker shift change, Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area|   47STRATEGY AND APPROACH
Hess is committed to attracting, energizing, developing 
and retaining a highly talented, diverse workforce that is capable of delivering strong business results.
We value individuals with outstanding technical, 
professional and administrative skills who work well in a collaborative environment, make an extra effort to ensure success, act with a social conscience and demonstrate an entrepreneurial, independent spirit.
We are committed to diversity and provide equal 
employment opportunities to all employees and job applicants regardless of race, color, gender, age, sexual orientation, religion, disability or other protected class. Our continuing practice applies to all decisions, including, but not limited to, recruiting, hiring, training, promotions, pay, beneﬁ  ts, disciplinary actions and terminations. 
We do not tolerate harassment of any kind,
including threats and intimidation of an employeeor employment candidate.
We recognize and respect our employees’ right to join 
associations and choose representative organizations for the purpose of engaging in collective bargaining in a manner that is consistent with applicable laws, rules, regulations and customs.
We do not permit the employment of under-age 
children in our workforce or the use of forced or compulsory labor in any of our global operations.
We are committed to providing total pay and 
beneﬁ  ts that are externally competitive and internally fair.OVERVIEW
Hess employed 12,229 people around the world in 2009 and supported another 1,417 people who worked in reﬁ ning and trading joint ventures, a 2 percent decrease 
from 2008 levels. 
The majority of employees, 91 percent, worked in the 
U.S.; 24 percent were part-time; 61 percent were hourly employees at retail locations. The vast majority of part-time and hourly employees worked at retail locations. There were no employees on temporary contract.
Global Employees  (12,229 employees)*
United States 11,077
 Retail 7,821
 Non-Retail** 3,256
International 1152
 Africa 304
 Europe 365
 Asia Pacific 432
 Other 5164%26%1% 4% 3% 2%
  * Excludes Samara-Nafta
  operations in Russia
** Includes St. Lucia (107)
The global turnover rate (voluntary) for Hess employees 
other than hourly was 4.5 percent. In addition, there were layoffs of 132 employees due to economic conditions. Turnover was lowest among women, employees younger than 30 and older than 50and those located in developing countries.
DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
A new position has been created within the Human Resourses organization, reporting to the senior vice 100 % 
PERFORMANCE REVIEWS COMPLETE22%
PROFESSIONALS IN NEW ROLES35%
WOMEN/MINORITIES IN LEADERSHIP PROGRAM48   |president of Global Human Resources to lead talent 
acquisition, talent management and diversity on a global basis. A formal review of best practices is underway to further strengthen our approach. 
Our company continued to recruit and develop a diverse 
workforce in 2009 despite the global economic downturn. Globally, women comprised 40 percent of employees and minorities made up 36 percent of U.S. employees.
To control costs, we hired only to ﬁ  ll open positions that 
were essential as we effectively managed the business or acquired new skills. The exception was at the entry level where we continued to recruit at universities. The strategy has been to ensure a steady inﬂ  ux of talent for the future 
given the industry-wide challenge of an aging workforce. In 2009 employee age group distribution was 31 percent under 30, 48 percent between 30 and 50, and 21 percent over 50 years of age.
Our recruitment teams featured recent graduates who 
shared their experiences as young men and women working in our industry and at Hess. Twenty-three percent of our 2009 downstream recruiting class comprised minorities and 31 percent women. 
These coupled with an aggressive mid-career recruiting 
program have enabled us to significantly shift the demographics in our upstream technical workforce over time. For example in 2004 women held 7 percent of all petro-tech jobs; today, there are twice as many petro-tech jobs and women hold 14 percent.We made good progress in promoting diversity and 
inclusion in our leadership ranks. Thirty-ﬁ  ve percent of participants in our Business Leadership Program for the downstream operations were women and 35 percent minorities. Thirty-four percent of participants in our engineering and geosciences development programs for early-career professionals were women and 30 percent were minorities. Each of these participants was assigned a mentor from senior leadership to provide career coaching and guidance.Global Workforce
Assistant operations manager, reﬁ  ning facility, Port Reading,
New Jersey
Women (U.S. and International)         Minorities (U.S.)
Job Category Total Employees Number Percent U.S. Employees Number Percent
Executives and Senior Ofﬁ  cers 79 5 6 72 5 7
First- and Mid-Level Managers 2,484 996 40 2,262 616 27Professionals 1,840 595 32 1,325 361 27
Total 4,403 1,596 36 3,659 982 27Women and Minority Representation (Executive, Management and Professional Staff)
Includes Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia, Equatorial Guinea, U.K., Denmark and Norway. Based on U.S. Government’s EEO reporting y ear July 2008 – June 2009|   49Retail site managers are required to participate in U.S. 
Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) and Harassment training using the Brightline Compliance program. Similar training is provided for all other employees by leadership, Human Resources and the Legal department to ensure compliance with the law and the company’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
Employees are encouraged to speak to supervisors, 
managers or leaders about suspected violations. Human Resources professionals follow a standard process to investigate each complaint promptly, thoroughly and fairly. Anyone found to have violated company policy or who acted in conﬂ  ict with the Hess Values is subject to disciplinary action, which can range from additional training to termination of employment. Reports of violation can be ﬁ  led anonymously to the conﬁ  dential Hess Hotline. In 2009, 13 incidents were 
reported to the hotline and resolved by the company. 
To resolve an employee complaint of language 
discrimination at a Hess retail site, the company reached an agreement with the Attorney General of the State of New York on July 10, 2009. Under the settlement, Hess paid $94,000 in restitution, adopted a non-discriminatory policy regarding the languages employees may speak at work, and trained managersin the state of New York to enforce this policy.
WORKFORCE LOCALIZATION
Our workforce localization efforts are focused on leadership and building professional capacity, primarily in Equatorial Guinea, Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand. In these countries nationals hold between 25 percent and 63 percent of professional positions and comprise up to 21 percent of ﬁ  rst- and mid-level professionals and managers. Currently there are no executives who are nationals. 
We continued to make progress building the capability 
of nationals to assume important roles in local operations, thereby reducing reliance on traditional expatriates around the world. External search ﬁ  rms were engaged to recruit talented nationals, whether they were already in the country or working abroad. 
The company also sponsored a referral program for employees to assist in identifying qualiﬁ  ed external national candidates
.
National Employees (% of country workforce)
Equatorial
GuineaPercent of Country Workforce
Indonesia Malaysia Thailand020406080100
69%
63%95%
88%
The nationalization process emphasizes development. 
Technical professionals with less industry experience participated in a Foundation Graduates and Apprenticeship Program and were assigned mentors. Those who were more experienced participated in leadership training, which includes modules on coaching, achieving results and communication. 
Workers arriving at Pangkah platform, Indonesia50   |EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
A concerted effort was made in 2009 to share 
information about business performance and direction. Each division executive established regular e-mail updates on activities and progress in achieving stated goals. Several businesses and teams, most notably those with a sales force, held conference calls to connect people by phone.
An investment was made in infrastructure to broadcast 
town hall sessions live to employees around the world. By year-end, the process accommodated live feeds from multiple locations and engaged presenters in different countries.
Several actions were taken to address issues and 
opportunities identiﬁ  ed in the Voice of Hess employee engagement survey conducted in late 2008. Most were at the location and business unit level where they would be most meaningful. These included developing learning modules to transfer knowledge and help the transition for new hires, adopting more ﬂ  exible work schedules around major holidays, formalizing an approach to production excellence and holding training sessions on effective performance management.
At the enterprise level, employees highlighted the 
need for more efﬁ  cient work processes to keep up with rapid growth over the last several years. Two major projects were undertaken in 2009 designed to improve work processes beginning in 2010: The Resource Center and Hess Connect. The Resource Center standardizes people-related processes and organizes information in a global system that can be accessed by employees using an online portal. Hess Connect will replace the current internal Web site and will feature social media tools to facilitate collaboration. Both Hess Connect and The Resource Center were undergoing ﬁ  nal testing at year-end and were launched early in 2010.BENEFITS
Hess offers a wide range of beneﬁ  ts to full time, non-retail salaried and hourly employees that, based on location, range from bereavement and jury duty pay, overtime pay and education assistance to savings and pension plans, insurance and medical and dental plans. 
Union-represented employees are subject to collective 
bargaining agreements; many of these beneﬁ  ts are available to part-time and retail hourly employees.
Details of retirement plans, including funding of 
pension beneﬁ  ts, can be found in the company’s SEC Form 10-K.
HOVENSA physician in St. Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands
Hess is building a culture of wellness in the workplace to improve the health of employees and members of their families. In the second year of the Health4Life 
wellness initiative in the U.S. the focus turned to 
lifestyle and disease management. Health coaches 
and advocates were made available to help individuals 
create a personalized health management program. 
This was supplemented by activities at work locations, Global Workforce|   51such as discounted Weight Watchers programs, cooking 
demonstrations, healthy food choices and organized walks and runs. More than 900 employees took advantage of free on-site ﬂ  u shots. The Health4Life wellness initiative 
will be extended beyond the U.S. in 2010.
A new U.S. medical plan was introduced in January 
2009. For the majority of participants, the new plan lowered monthly premiums, increased the deductible for out-of-pocket expenses, lowered the annual out-of-pocket maximum, provided free preventive care and medication, offered a Health Savings Account (HSA) pre-funded by the company, and offered cash rewards to participants taking healthy actions.
At year-end Hess commissioned a survey to 
determine understanding of and reaction to the medical plan and the wellness initiative. Conductedby the American College of Physicians, the survey 
was completed by 41 percent of employees and 10 percent of spouses, a statistically valid sample. Hess is using the survey findings to make adjustments to programs and related resources.
• Obesity/Weight Management
• Hypertension• Musculoskeletal Conditions• Heart Disease• Diabetes• Asthma• Mental Health and Stress• Cancer
* Hess Employees and SpousesTOP EMPLOYEE HEALTH CONDITIONS (U.S.)*
Hess offers a wide range of beneﬁ  ts to employees around the world. The company typically supplements 
government-provided programs and services. The following table illustrates enhancements employees receive over and above what is offered by the government in the following non-OECD (Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development) countries where we have signiﬁ  cant operations.
Beneﬁ  t Equatorial Guinea Indonesia Malaysia Thailand
Enhancements from Hess
Paid maternity leave Extra 30 days Extra 45 days
Paternity leave 3 days 3 days 3 days
Lactation programs May leave work 1 hr. early 
Compassionate leave of absence 4 weeks 3 days 3 days 3 days
Life insurance Full year salary
Short-term disability 50% of salary up to 12 mths. More pay More pay
Long-term disability More pay More pay
Paid holiday/vacation days Extra 8-13 days Extra 12-17 days Extra 14-19 days
Offered only by Hess
Employee Assistance Program (EAP) ✓✓
Life insurance ✓✓ ✓
Health care/drug plan ✓✓
Health Care Flexible Spending Account ✓✓
Flexible work schedules ✓✓ ✓SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFITS OFFERED BY HESS INTERNATIONAL LOCATIONS52   |COMPENSATION
Hess is committed to paying employees fairly for 
the work they do and the contributions they make. The company also wants to recognize differences in contribution and provide greater rewards to those who make a bigger contribution or perform at higher levels regardless of race, color, gender, age, sexual orientation, religion, disability or other protected class.
In 2009 managers were trained in the company’s 
performance and pay policies and practices to ensure fairness and objectivity. They were also provided benchmarked competitive data for their employees, based on job responsibilities and geographic location, to enable them to make timely and objective decisions.Managers formally reviewed and calibrated the performance of employees against others in similar positions before pay decisions were made
. 
In response to the economic downturn the company froze wage increases for executives companywide and staff within Corporate and downstream organizations. 
For the year Hess spent $794 million in pay and 
beneﬁ  ts for U.S. employees. Sixty-four percent of employees worked at Hess retail locations, the vast majority in entry level hourly positions. These employees were paid on average 22 percent more than the local minimum wage. Non-retail entry-level positions in our principal U.S., and international operations are compensated at two to four times the average local minimum wage.
Country of Operation* Hess: Local Wage Ratio
U.S. (Retail hourly) 1 to 2 times greater
U.S. (Non-Retail hourly)   2 to 4 times greater 
Denmark   1 to 2 times greater
U.K.*, Norway, Equatorial Guinea 2 to 3 times greater
Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand 3 to 4 times greater  Comparison of Hess Entry Level Wages to 
Local Minimum Wages
* Age 22 and aboveFREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION
Hess employs unionized and non-represented 
employees in hourly classiﬁ  cations. To the company’s knowledge, there are no operations where the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at signiﬁ  cant risk.
There are represented workers at our operations 
in two countries: the United States and Denmark.  Approximately 9 percent of U.S. employees are members of a union. Collective bargaining agreements are in place at the Port Reading facility and 12 U.S. terminals. Approximately 9 percent of employees at retail stores are unionized. Denmark operations have represented workers, but Danish law prohibits the collection of that data.
Hess complies with federal and state labor regulations 
and the terms of collective bargaining agreements regarding minimum notiﬁ  cation periods for major operational changes such as layoffs or facility closures. Locations with 50 or more employees commonly receive 60 to 90 days advance notice. The notiﬁ  cation period for locations with fewer than 50 employees typically is two to four weeks, depending on the time needed to safely manage the operational change.
LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT
Our annual Talent Management Process brought together leaders from all levels of the company to review the achievements, capabilities and potential of their employees. They made recommendations about training projects and mentor assignments for those employees. Individuals who were qualiﬁ  ed and able to take on more responsibility were offered opportunities to advance. The process promotes career development and ensures that there are capable candidates for jobs as they become available. Succession plans for key roles are reviewed and discussed annually with the Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors.
In 2009, 22 percent of professional employees took 
on new roles; 20 percent of those involved moving to a 
new location or country. Global Workforce|   53Employees in focus groups cite the commitment to 
learning and development as an important quality that differentiates Hess. The company has placed special emphasis on leaders over the last several years, continually challenging and developing them so that they have the skills and abilities to bring out the best in others and deliver results. These efforts continued in 2009.Every professional and executive at Hess took part in 
the global performance management process. They set objectives early in the year and held formal reviews with their supervisor at mid-year to gauge progress and again at year-end to assess what was accomplished.
As part of their discussions with supervisors, many 
employees created a formal development plan which spelled out opportunities for improvement in their current job and will help them prepare for their next role.
Hess invested $11 million in 2009 to train employees 
who work in ofﬁ  ce locations. This total includes seminar and symposia fees, educational assistance, tuition, internal training programs and third-party training.
An online Learning Center was launched during the ﬁ  rst 
quarter, offering more than 500 self-study courses on general business knowledge, technical and functional capabilities, desktop skills, compliance issues, and Hess and HOVENSA topics. Forty-six percent of non-retail employees visited the site and took an average of two e-learning courses. We estimate non-retail employees averaged 25 hours of e-learning and instructor-led training for the year based on training expenditures and limited tracking systems which are currently being enhanced.
Retail hourly employees accessed a new Web-based 
retail training system installed in stores and gasoline stations throughout the Hess and HESS EXPRESS network. They spent an average of ﬁ  ve to six hours training online and an additional eight hours was dedicated to on-the-job training. Assistant managers spent ﬁ  ve to six hours on Web-based training, 24 hours training on-the-job, and 16 hours in instructor-led training.
Training program in Houston, TexasWe value individuals with outstanding skills who have
differing experiences and viewpoints, and who work wellin a collaborative environment. 54   |
COMMUNITY AND
SOCIAL PERFORMANCE
Student at Hess supported school, Sinphuhorm, Thailand|   55STRATEGY AND APPROACH
We believe that a world-class company achieves a high 
standard of operating performance and acts with a social conscience.  
Social Responsibility is one of the six Hess Core 
Values.  We recognize that as a leading global energy company we have the ability to help make a lasting improvement in the quality of life in the communities where we do business.  
The health and well-being of our communities 
and our people are of utmost concern. Before the company makes a major new investment, we conduct an Environmental and Social Impact Assessment to understand the potential effect of our operations on the communities. We partner with host governments, community groups and other stakeholders to develop programs that can make a measurable and sustainable difference. There were no signiﬁ  cant legal actions, ﬁ  nes or non-monetary sanctions related to community activities.
The focus of our support is primarily on making tangible 
improvements in education and health care, two areas that help determine the long-term success of any society. The efforts of our workforce are an important part of our social responsibility mission. Every Hess employee is encouraged to lend time, energy and expertise to community-based organizations.
In 2009, we invested nearly $13 million in social causes 
around the world. The decrease from 2008 is due to lower expenditures in the area of disaster response, and a larger than anticipated government contribution to the PRODEGE education project in Equatorial Guinea.
We also provided $1 million to International Medical 
Corps to provide training, equipment and medical supplies in the aftermath of a ﬁ  re that destroyedSt. Jude Hospital in St. Lucia.2009 Social Investment by Country – $13 Million
U.S. 60%
Libya 16%
St. Lucia 8%
Russia 7%
Indonesia  3%
U.K. 2%
Thailand  2%
Norway  1%
All Others  1%60%
16%8%7%1% 2% 3%
In addition, HOVENSA spent $2.4 million on social 
programs in 2009, of which $1.4 million was dedicated to education and $0.9 million to community 
projects. The International Craft Training Program, 
established in 2007, was the primary recipient of 
these education funds.
2009 Type of Investment ($ thousand)
Community 3,756
In Kind 3,236
Health 3,002
Education 1,597
Disaster Relief  1,015
Environment  2693,756
3,2363,0021,5971,015269
HESS DONATIONS MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN HAITI
Just days following the catastrophic January 12, 2010, 
earthquake in Haiti, Hess Corporation donated$1 million to three international relief organizations to $13 MILLION IN
SOCIAL INVESTMENT$50 MILLION 
FOR EDUCATION IN EQUATORIAL GUINEA$2 MILLION IN
DISASTER RELIEF56   |help ensure timely emergency aid to the thousands of 
people in need of immediate assistance.
The company provided $500,000 to the International 
Medical Corps (IMC) and $250,000 each to UNICEF 
and the International Rescue Committee (IRC). Hess 
also introduced a dollar-for-dollar matching program for 
employees who chose to donate to IMC, IRC, UNICEF 
or the American Red Cross. The employee program 
raised more than $150,000. 
IMC was on the ground hours after the quake. Funding 
from Hess enabled the organization to dramatically 
scale up medical care and training.
The IRC’s Emergency Response Team was also among 
the ﬁ  rst on the ground in Haiti following the quake, 
providing water, food, sanitation and other humanitarian 
assistance for the tens of thousands left homeless.
UNICEF launched a major immunization campaign for 
500,000 children under the age of seven to protect 
them against preventable diseases such as measles, 
rubella and tetanus. UNICEF and its partners also 
distributed drinking water and worked to improve 
community sanitation.
HESS DONATION HELPS REBUILD HOSPITAL 
DESTROYED BY FATAL FIRE
After a fatal ﬁ  re destroyed St. Jude Hospital on the 
tiny Caribbean island of St. Lucia last September, 
Hess partnered with the St. Lucia government and 
the IMC to help expand and improve operations at 
the facility’s temporary home in neighboring George 
Odlum Stadium.
Hess donated $1 million through IMC for essential 
medical equipment, supplies and training. The IMC is 
securing an additional $500,000 of donated medicine, 
medical supplies and equipment. The organization will 
also work with hospital staff to develop physician and 
nurse training programs.About 68,000 island residents, nearly half of the 
population, rely on the hospital for in- and out-patient 
care including general surgery, internal medicine, 
cardiology, orthopedics, pediatrics, ENT, ophthalmology, 
dermatology, obstetrics and gynecology, psychiatry, 
urology, dentistry and anesthesiology.
The hospital also plays an important role in the island’s 
tourism industry, a cornerstone of its economy. It is 
the only public hospital within an hour’s drive of the 
Hewanorra International Airport, and serves as the 
designated facility for mass casualties in the event of 
an airport disaster.  Increasing the trauma capacity 
of the temporary facility is critical to ensuring that 
international airlines maintain services there.
Hess has been in St. Lucia since 1977. The company 
operates Hess Oil St. Lucia, a terminal with a storage 
capacity of 10 million barrels. Following Hurricane 
Allen in 1980, the company donated funds to repair 
more than 75 schools and construct several new ones.Community And Social Performance
Nurse and young patient, St. Jude Hospital, St. Lucia|   57The centerpiece of our Corporate Social 
Responsibility program is a $50 million public/ 
private initiative in the West African nation of 
Equatorial Guinea, PRODEGE, ‘Programa de 
Desarrollo Educativo de Guinea Ecuatorial.’ 
PRODEGE is a partnership that is led by the 
Government of Equatorial Guinea and Hess 
Corporation and implemented by the Academy for 
Educational Development (AED). It is transforming 
primary education for 34,000 students and their 
educators nationwide. In the four years since it 
was established:
•  40 model schools have been refurbished across
the country.
•  The program developed and rolled out a new 
curriculum that includes accelerated course 
work in math, language and science.
•  A two-year teacher training program certiﬁ  ed
nearly 1,000 primary school teachers, a third 
of them women.•  Two training laboratories were built at the teachers 
colleges in Bata and Malabo.
•  An education information system and annual 
census have been initiated.
•  75 PRODEGE national staff were trained in 
project management; 38 trainers are mentoring 
teachers and 80 inspectors have been trained 
in school supervision.
AED President and CEO Stephen Moseley recently 
met with staff at Hess to discuss the program’s 
accomplishments to date. “It is really extraordinary 
what an organization like Hess can do in partnership 
with a country,” said Moseley. “PRODEGE is 
improving the teaching quality and changing the 
approach by which the teaching and the learning 
process are done. Through the ﬁ  rst three grades, 
there is already a distinct difference in how 
classrooms are operated. Students are working 
together in groups; they’re learning as teams; they’re 
using classroom furniture that has been built locally.  
“Community leaders and parents are coming 
together and looking at the schools as a community 
resource. They are seeing that their ownership of the 
schools is an important aspect of their responsibility 
as citizens. There is much more enthusiasm for 
education.”
Challenges remain in transforming PRODEGE from 
project to practice. Over the next two years the 
program team will focus considerable energy on 
supporting the Ministry of Education in their efforts to 
sustain the achievements made to date and planning 
for the scale up of the active learning model to reach 
all 812 primary schools in the country.
Hess takes a long term view in projects such as 
PRODEGE. We know from experience that it 
takes many years of collaboration to bring about 
lasting change.BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE EDUCATION PROGRAM IN WEST AFRICA
PRODEGE model school, Equatorial Guinea58   |
SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY 
ACTIVITIES
58     |UNITED STATES
North Dakota Employees 
Help Fight Flood
Hess employees filled 
thousands of sandbags to 
raise levees and contributed 
$10,000 to the American Red 
Cross to fund six shelters for 
flood-displaced citizens in 
North Dakota.
UNITED STATES
Retail Stations Support St. Jude 
Children’s Research Hospital
Hess employees and retail 
customers contributed $400,000 
to support St. Jude Children’s 
Research Hospital in Memphis, 
Tenn. The hospital conducts 
research and treats children with 
pediatric cancer regardless of 
their ability to pay.
EGYPT
Community School – Khatawat
Hess support is enabling the 
school to provide high quality 
basic education and vocational 
training to children in this low-
income community.ST. CROIX, U.S. V.I.
College Scholarships Awarded
The HOVENSA refining JV 
awarded full scholarships to 
20 graduates of its Industrial 
Craft Training Program to study 
engineering at Texas State 
Technical College in Waco, 
Texas. More than 120 local 
youths are on track to graduate.
UNITED KINGDOM
Shelter for Battered 
Women Renovated
Hess employees teamed up with 
Habitat for Humanity to renovate 
the Solace Women’s Aid facility. 
Hess also equipped the facility’s 
children’s playroom.UNITED STATES
March of Dimes Campaign 
Passes $1 Million Mark
With $252,000 collected from 
customers in 2009, Hess retail 
locations have raised more than 
$1 million since 2001 to support 
the March of Dimes’ efforts to 
prevent birth defects, premature 
birth and infant mortality.UNITED STATES
Home Run Campaign For Kids 
With Medical Needs
Every home run hit by a Boston 
Red Sox player earned $500 — 
given to the Jimmy Fund to 
fight cancer in children and to 
the Children’s Hospital Boston’s 
Trauma Program. Hess raised 
$50,000 for each organization.
UNITED STATES
Houston Team Fights Hunger 
As part of a Hess Day of Caring 
employees and family members 
stocked shelves at Target 
Hunger’s pantry to help fight 
hunger in the inner city. 
They also revitalized 
community gardens.|   59
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
Improving Access to 
Potable Water
Since 2004 Hess has focused 
on drilling, restoring and 
maintaining water wells. 
In 2009, 18 wells were restored.
AZERBAIJAN
Education For Children With 
Special Needs
Hess supported the Community 
Shield Azerbaijan to renovate 
the School for Deaf Children in 
Baku. The school serves 327 
hearing-impaired students.INDONESIA
Life Skills Training – East Java 
In partnership with the Surabaya 
Vocational Training Center, Hess 
helped school drop-outs learn 
skills in automotive maintenance, 
electronics, welding, dressmaking 
and embroidery. The program 
prepares students for the local 
job market. 
THAILAND
Nurse Shortage in Thailand
Hess is helping educate 
high school students in Ubonrat 
and Namphong about nursing 
and now funds 10 four-year 
scholarships.LIBYA
Improving Diabetes Care
Through Partners Harvard 
Medical International Hess 
supported the development 
of national guidelines for the 
clinical care of diabetes and 
a diabetes care workshop for 
47 nurses in Libya.
NORWAY
Community Program – Stavanger
Hess expanded its support from 
arts to include education and 
youth development. The program 
funds two scholarships to the 
master’s program in petroleum 
engineering at the University of 
Stavanger and sponsors 60 youth 
sports teams.
|      5960   |
PRODUCTS 
AND SERVICES
Hess Terminal, St. Lucia|   61STRATEGY AND APPROACH
Hess is focused on providing customers and consumers 
with energy-related products and services. In addition to producing crude oil, the company makes, stores, blends, distributes, and sells reﬁ  ned petroleum products; produces natural gas for sale in Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand and the U.S., and dispatches and sells electricity in U.S. regional markets in the Northeast and the Mid-Atlantic.
We recognize that there is signiﬁ  cant public interest 
in transitioning to a lower carbon economy. The environmental footprint of our products is substantial compared to our operational footprint. We produce and sell reformulated gasoline and ultra-low sulfur diesel that meet federal standards and are cleaner than conventional fuels. Our Energy Marketing business provides services that can help our energy customers reduce their carbon footprint and become more energy efﬁ  cient.  
Compliance with applicable federal, state and local 
requirements for product quality and labeling is a minimum standard. We share information on the health, safety and environmental impacts of our products with customers and consumers and do not make unsubstantiated claims. We respect our customers’ right to privacy and have in place customer satisfaction programs and practices.
REFINED PETROLEUM PRODUCTS
Our primary market for reﬁ  ned petroleum products is the U.S. East Coast. Principal products include reformulated gasoline, conventional gasoline, ultra-low sulfur diesel fuel, and heating oil. We comply with product and service labeling and health and safety impact requirements; no signiﬁ  cant monetary ﬁ  nes were incurred during 2009.Tanks for reﬁ  ned product storage at Port Reading 
Reﬁ  nery, our HOVENSA joint venture reﬁ  nery and Hess terminals are labeled and placarded. Petroleum products sold at Hess retail gas stations are labeled at point-of-sale in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements. Each product has an associated Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) that provides information on chemical, physical, and toxicological characteristics, as well as safe handling and emergency response. MSDSs are available on location, through Hess Retail’s Customer Service department and on the Hess Web site.
The full life-cycle health and safety impacts of reﬁ  ned 
petroleum products have been well characterized and documented by industry, government agencies, and the scientiﬁ  c community. The most signiﬁ  cant environmental and human health impacts occur during use. Because fuel is managed in bulk throughout the product lifecycle, no packaging materials are utilized.COMMERCIAL & 
INDUSTRIAL CUSTOMERSRENEWABLE ENERGY
CERTIFICATES22,000
ELECTRICITY SALES VOLUME INCREASE37% 1,100,000
Hess fuel oil truck, New York City62   |Products And Services
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) 
1995 Reformulated Gasoline (RFG) program and 2007 Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) closely regulate gasoline formulations. The EPA also has an ultra low-sulfur diesel (ULSD) requirement to reduce tail pipe emissions from diesel-powered vehicles. Compared to conventional gasoline and diesel, the EPA reports reduced tailpipe emissions of carbon dioxide and toxic and smog-forming compounds from RFG and ULSD 
(www.epa.gov/otaq).
Port Reading Reﬁ  nery’s production of RFG has 
increased 66 percent since 2006 to 88 percent of total gasoline. At HOVENSA, 44 percent of gasoline production was RFG with the remainder conventional gasoline shipped to the U.S. East Coast and Puerto Rico. HOVENSA’s diesel production has been 100 percent ULSD since 2007. In 2009 gasoline and diesel fuel sales at Hess-branded retail stations were 50 percent RFG and 100 percent ULSD respectively. U.S. terminals also sold 9,000 barrels of biodieseland almost six million barrels of ethanol towholesale customers.
Ethanol is the primary designated renewable fuel 
under the RFS program. Hess Marketing and Reﬁ  ning has completed a system-wide conversion in its terminals and retail stores so that it can provide wholesale and retail customers and consumers with ethanol-blended fuel. Currently corn-based ethanol dominates the market. Hess welcomes efforts by industry and government to advance commodityscale of cost-competitive cellulosic ethanol and advanced biofuels.
The RFG program mandated the use of oxygenates in 
gasoline to improve air quality in non-attainment areas.  Hess, like other reﬁ  ners, utilized methyl tertiary-butyl ether (MTBE) to meet this requirement. Hess is one of many oil and gas companies that has been party to lawsuits and claims related to historic MTBE use as detailed in our annual SEC Form 10-K. The company no longer makes or sells gasoline that contains MTBE.ENERGY MARKETING
Energy Marketing, headquartered in Woodbridge, N.J., is the leading energy supplier to commercial and industrial businesses on the U.S. East Coast, providing petroleum products, natural gas and electricity to more than 22,000 customers. In 2009 Energy Marketing continued to expand its commodity sales business in spite of tough economic conditions. Year on year our natural gas sales volumes increased 3 percent, oil sales increased 4 percent and electricity sales volumes continued to experience strong growth, increasing 37 percent from 2008. Electricity sales now represent 31 percent of total energy sales, up from 24 percent in 2008.
2009 Energy Marketing by Commodity (BTU equivalent)
Natural Gas 45%
Heating Oil 24%
Electricity 31%
45%
24%31%
In addition to energy sales, Hess offers our customers 
a “Green Suite” of products and services including Hess C-Neutral, Demand Response and Green-e certiﬁ  ed renewable energy certiﬁ  cates (RECs). In 2008 we launched our C-Neutral product, which allows customers to bundle natural gas or fuel oil purchases with carbon credits that offset the CO
2 emissions 
associated with each fuel’s combustion.
We help customers participate in the Demand 
Response programs of independent system operators (ISOs) PJM and NYISO which represent electricity power pools in the U.S. Northeast and Mid-Atlantic. The programs provide customers with revenue |   63opportunities while improving grid reliability and 
decreasing the need for new power plant construction. When customers enroll in one of our Demand Response programs, they receive an energy audit and advanced metering equipment. Hess works with them to develop a comprehensive energy curtailment plan in the event the regional ISO requests a short-term reduction in energy consumption. In 2009 we helped customers enroll in the program and managed more than 400 megawatts of 
curtailable capacity.
Often our customers use the additional revenue from 
Demand Response to voluntarily purchase RECs through Hess. These REC purchases support the development of U.S. renewable energy sources. In 2009 we purchased and retired 220,000 voluntary RECs on behalf of our customers, equivalent to the same number of megawatt hours of renewable energy. These purchases helped some customers qualify to join EPA’s Green Power Partnership, which recognizes the annual green power purchases made by organizations for U.S. operations and from U.S.-based green power resources. ENERGY MARKETING
ELECTRICITY
SUPPLIERELECTRICITY
CONSUMER
RENEWABLE ENERGYRENEWABLE ENERGY CERTIFICATESPOWER
POWERPOWER POWER
REC SUPPLIERWhere both conventional
and renewable energy
are combinedPOWER GRIDCONVENTIONAL ENERGY
In 2009 Hess Energy Marketing purchased and retired more than one million Green-e certified 
Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) for customers and our own businesses. The REC purchases supported the development of more than one million megawatt hours of U.S. based renewable energy. 
Hess is a major energy supplier in Boston, Massachusetts64   |We also retired 100,000 voluntary RECs in 2009 for 
Hess Corporation, equivalent to 11 percent of the purchased electricity used in our own operations. 
In addition, our electric operations group purchased 
and retired more than 800,000 RECs to meet compliance requirements under state programsrelated to our overall electricity sales in 2009. 
Energy Marketing provides asset management services 
to wholesale power generators located in the power pools operated by PJM, NYISO and ISO-NE. Under these arrangements, Hess is helping these generators with all commercial aspects of their operations, including fuel procurement, bidding, scheduling, dispatching, ISO communications, ISO settlements and emissions management. We have successfully managed power generation assets ranging from two megawatts to 2,200 megawatts. These assets are used for baseload, mid-merit and peaking duties and use a variety of conventional, alternative and renewable fuels including natural gas, oil, biomass and hydro. Under similar programs we have partnered with several of our industrial customers with cogeneration assets to export excess power to the grid. 
In 2009 work continued on plans for the Bayonne 
Energy Center, Hess’ ﬁ  rst merchant power plant, with groundbreaking expected in mid 2010. The facility will be located on a brownﬁ  eld site in New Jersey adjacent to the company’s existing Bayonne oil products terminal. The Bayonne Energy Center will be a 500 megawatts gas-ﬁ  red generator that will provide 
electricity directly to the New York City market via an underwater transmission cable. The unit will comprise the most efﬁ  cient and modern combustion turbines in the New York City metropolitan area and is expected to displace older and less efﬁ  cient generating assets in the dispatch order. The facility will have the ability to ramp from a static state to full dispatch in fewer than 10 minutes, providing the New York City market with critical ancillary services and reliability beneﬁ  ts.
CUSTOMERS AND CONSUMERS
Our Value of Integrity and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics guide us to deal fairly with customers and consumers. We are committed to customer satisfaction and privacy, truth in advertising and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The company’s retail gas station convenience stores comply with minimum age requirements for alcohol and tobacco sales and we prohibit sales of pornographic material. 
Hess has several practices related to customer 
satisfaction and rapid response to customer concerns and complaints. These include readily accessible customer service departments (via telephone, Web site links and e-mail), dedicated marketing representatives and delegation of authority to retail station managers.  Within retail there is an online database where customer issues are logged, assigned for handlingand monitored until they are resolved.
The most signiﬁ  cant customer privacy issues are 
payment card security for retail and Internet privacy for Energy Marketing. Hess dedicates signiﬁ  cant resources Products And Services
Customer at HESS EXPRESS|   65to ensure the security of customer data through its 
Payment Card Industry Compliance program. The Hess Energy Marketing Web site contains a privacy policy that provides disclosure on information use and security of customer data (www.hessenergy.com/privacypolicy.htm). There were no incidents of noncompliance with customer privacy and data loss.
Marketing communications are generally limited to 
information posted on our company Web sites, hess.com and hessenergy.com, as well as signage at retail stations and a limited number of sporting venues. Signage at retail stations can be subject to local ordinance and the company routinely monitors local requirements to ensure compliance. In 2009 Retail Marketing bought television time in the New York City metropolitan area to advertise the availability of the Hess Toy Truck for purchase at the company’s retail stores.
Early in 2009 the Sixth Judicial Circuit Court for Pinellas 
County, Florida, certiﬁ  ed a class action alleging that in the summer of 2008 Hess increased consumer debit card pre-authorizations from $75 to $100 without adequate disclosure. With fuel prices skyrocketing, the company sought to avoid inconveniencing drivers of larger vehicles whose costs to refuel exceeded the $75 pre-set limit. Plaintiffs’ lawyers seek to recoup overdraft and bounced check charges. The company has appealed the certiﬁ  cation since the bank that issued the debit cards was the entity that put short-term holds on withdrawals.   
NUVERA FUEL CELLS
Nuvera Fuel Cells is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Hess with locations in the U.S. and Italy. The company is focused on the development and commercialization of key hydrogen energy technologies including hydrogen fuel cells that produce electricity andhydrogen processors that make hydrogen from 
conventional fuels.
Nuvera was the recipient of two U.S. Department 
of Energy (DOE) awards for fuel cell research and development designed to accelerate commercialization and market penetration. In 2009 the company received two three-year awards, $3.9 million to study and identify strategies to optimize fuel cell durability and $4.5 million to optimize the efﬁ  ciency of fuel cell stack technology meeting DOE cost targets. Nuvera is working in partnership with DOE, National Energy Laboratories, universities and other companies on these projects.
In 2009 Nuvera installed fuel cell/battery hybrid units 
in a ﬂ  eet of forklifts being used to service the U.S. Defense Logistics Agency and partnered with a Texas-based supermarket chain, installing a refueling station and fuel cell hybrid systems at a major distribution center. These products are being evaluated for lifecycle cost projections, productivity gains and overall environmental beneﬁ  ts.Energy Marketing customers can make their energy purchases 
carbon neutral through the Hess C-neutral program.
Hydrogen fuel cell powered forklift66   |PERFORMANCE DATA
UNITS 2007 2008 2009
BUSINESS PERFORMANCE
Gross operated hydrocarbon production/throughput (normalization factor) 000 BOE/D 1,171 1,333 1,392
Net hydrocarbon production 000 BOE/D 377 381  408 Port Reading Reﬁ  nery throughput 000 BOE/D 61 64  63 
HOVENSA Reﬁ  nery throughput (total) 000 BOE/D 454 441  402 
Sales and other operating revenue $ Million 31,727 41,134  29,614 Reﬁ ned petroleum product sales $ Million 14,741 19,765  12,931 
Net income $ Million 1,832 2,360  740 
Total assets $ Million 26,131 28,589  29,465 
Total debt $ Million 3,980 3,955  4,467 
Stockholders' equity $ Million 10,000 12,391  13,528 
Debt to capitalization ratio % 28.9 24.2 24.8
SAFETY PERFORMANCE – WORKFORCE (EMPLOYEES + CONTRACTORS)
Fatalities #0 1 0
Hours Worked Million hrs. 46.9 47.4 44.5
Recordable incident rate       Injury rate per 200,000 hrs. worked 0.93 0.88 0.64
      Illness rate per 200,000 hrs. worked 0 0 0
Lost work time incident rate       Injury rate per 200,000 hrs. worked 0.29 0.26 0.22
      Illness rate per 200,000 hrs. worked 0 0 0ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTIONS
Capital and exploration expenditures $ Million 3,926 4,828  3,245 
Income tax to governments $ Million 1,872 2,340  715 Royalties and other payments to governments $ Million 885 891  414 Cash dividends paid to shareholders $ Million 127 130  131 Employee wages and beneﬁ  ts (U.S.) $ Million 654 720  794 
Interest paid to lenders and holders of debt securities $ Million 256 267  360 Recordable supplier spend (U.S.) $ Million 2,276 2,345  2,451      With small businesses (U.S.) $ Million 749 682  695      With women-owned small businesses (U.S.) $ Million 24 33  53 
     With minority-owned small businesses (U.S.) $ Million 10 33  68 
SOCIAL INVESTMENT
Total social investment $ Million 16 21  13 
Social investment by type     Education %5 6 4 9  1 3  
     Community contributions (non in kind) % 20 18  29      Disaster relief % 1 15  8 
     Health % 2 12  23 
     In kind % 21 6  25 
     Environment %< 1 < 1 2
GLOBAL WORKFORCE
Number of employees (excludes Samara-Nafta operations) # 12,071 12,432 12,229
International employees % 8.5 9 9Hourly paid employees % 67 66 61Part-time employees %N R 2 6 2 4
Employees represented by independent trade unions (U.S.) % 7.1 7.5 9.0Employee turnover (voluntary, excluding retail hourly) % NR 7.3 4.5
Diversity
Female members of the board of directors % 15 15 15Minority members of the board of directors % 8 8 8Board members from outside the U.S. % 0 0 0Female employees (U.S. and International) % 41 40 40Female executives and senior ofﬁ  cials (U.S. and International) % NR 7 6
Female managers and professionals (U.S. and International) % NR 40 37Minority employees (U.S.) % 41 37 36Minority executives and senior ofﬁ  cials (U.S.) % NR 7 7
Minority managers and professionals (U.S.) % TBD 26 27
Training and Development
Technical and personal development training spend $ Million 11 13  11 Training per year per management/professional employee Average hrs. 25 25  25 Training per year per hourly retail employee Average hrs. NR 12  14 
Employees receiving performance reviews (excluding retail hourly) % 100 100  100 |   67Note:
• In 2007 data set excludes Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area (JDA) operation. • In 2009 freshwater consumption includes Retail and Terminal Operations.• NR = Not ReportedThis table contains a subset of our publicly reported performance data. More is available on our Web site (www.hess.com). 
UNITS 2007 2008 2009
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
Energy Use
Direct energy use Million gigajoules 34.7 42.9 46.0
Indirect energy consumption Million gigajoules 9.5 9.1 9.9Production energy intensity Gigajoules/tonnes 0.76 0.79 0.81Green-e certiﬁ  ed renewable energy certiﬁ  cates (wind power) Thousand MWh 100 100 100
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Flaring MMscf 43,956 47,563 32,021
Operated direct CO2 emissions (Scope 1) Million tonnes 5.9 10.7 8.5
Operated direct GHG emissions (without JDA) Million tonnes 5.9 5.7 4.7Operated indirect CO
2 emissions (Scope 2) Million tonnes 0.5 0.6 0.6
Operated direct methane emissions Thousand tonnes 10.0 26.4 23.8Net Equity Carbon Intensity Emissions per unit production NR 44 39Product end-use emissions (Scope 3) Million tonnes NR 47.4 46.0
Freshwater Use
Groundwater/surface water Million bbls 24.1 38.0 42.5Municipal Million bbls 16.6 15.7 24.7
Criteria Pollutants
Sulfur oxides (SOx) Tonnes 2,598 3,149 3,199
Nitrogen oxides (NOx) Tonnes 11,300 11,581 10,872Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) Tonnes 33,115 29,031 31,678
Oil Spills ( > 50 bbls)
Number #3 4 0
Volume bbls 417 1,119 0
Exploration & Production Discharges
Oil in produced water to sea (volume) bbls 1193 1,304 1,050
Oil in produced water to sea (concentration) ppm 15 20 19Drilling mud to sea bbls 96,563 16,056 70,145
Drill cuttings to sea bbls 107,619 38,430 26,320
Produced water to sea Million bbls 79 64 54Produced water reinjected Million bbls 93 98 116
Reﬁ nery Clean Water Act Discharges
Port Reading Reﬁ  nery
      Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD5) Tons 2.9 8.1 40.7      Suspended solids Tons 4.4 6.4 45.4      Total petroleum hydrocarbons Tons 1.9 5.1 5.3HOVENSA JV Reﬁ  nery
      Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD5) Tons 171.2 124.5 28.5      Suspended solids Tons 283.8 293.9 243.8      Oil and grease Tons 36.2 33.1 20.3
Waste by Management Method
Total waste Thousand tons 109.5 113.4 139.6
      Recovery/Reuse/Recycle % 72 59 51      Landfarm %8 1 7 3
      Landﬁ  ll % 9 12 25
      External wastewater treatment, other % 11 12 21Basel Convention (Recovery/Reuse/Recycle) Thousand tons 11 11 0
Waste by Management Method (HOVENSA JV)
Total waste Thousand tons 20.4 17.9 20.1
      Reuse/Recycle %6 1 6 9 6 0
      Landfarm %1 3 1 2
      Landﬁ  ll %3 5 2 7 2 7
      Incineration %3 1 1
Other Environmental Performance Indicators
ISO 14001-certiﬁ  ed operations % of production 10 13 14
ISO 14001-certiﬁ  ed operations # 3 3 3
Environmental Expenditures
EHS ﬁ  nes and penalties $ Thousands 79 1,188 265
Remediation expenditures $ Million 11 11 11
Environmental reserve $ Million 60 61 5568   |Core Indicator Additional Indicator IPIECA only ● Fully reported ▲ Partially reportedThis index refers to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 
indicators, with cross-reference to the 10 Principles in the United Nations Global Compact (Compact Principles) and International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association sector-speciﬁ  c guidelines (IPIECA).Detailed information on GRI indicators relating to Board-level 
governance (4.1 through 4.7, 4.9 and 4.10) and deﬁ  ned beneﬁ  t plan obligations (EC3) can be found at http://www.hess.com/investors.GRI CONTENT INDEX
GRI
INDICATORGENERAL DESCRIPTION PAGEGRI
STATUSCOMPACT
PRINCIPLE(S)IPIECA
INDICATOR
STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS
1.1 Chairman's letter 2-3 ●
1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 4-5 ●
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE
2.1-2.9 General information on reporting organization 7-9 ●
2.10 Awards received during reporting period 72 ●
REPORT PARAMETERS
3.1-3.3,
3.5-3.8Report period, scope and boundary; materiality determination for content IFC ●
3.4 Contact point for questions regarding report IBC ●
3.9 Data measurement techniques and basis of calculations21-23, 32-43, 
47-48, 71●
3.10, 3.11 Explanation of restatements and signiﬁ  cant changes 34 ●
3.12 GRI content index 68-70 ●
3.13 External assurance 71 ●
GOVERNANCE
4.1-4.7,
4.9-4.10Information on highest governance body 11-12 ●
4.8 Internal values, codes of conduct, and principles7, 11-14, 
16-18●
4.11 The precautionary approach   29, 44, 55 ● 7
4.12 Externally-subscribed or endorsed voluntary initiatives 3, 16 ●
4.13 Key memberships and associations 14 ●
4.14-4.17 Stakeholders, types of engagement, key topics and concerns14-19, 26, 
40-41, 50, 55-65 ●
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
ECDisclosure on management approach to economic performance 2-3, 7, 55 ●
Disclosure on management approach to market presence 7-9, 61 ●
Disclosure on management approach to indirect economic impacts 55 ●
EC1 Direct economic value 19 ●ECO-1 – 
ECO-A3; 
SOC-A4
EC2 Financial implications of climate change 31 ● 7
EC3 Deﬁ  ned beneﬁ  t plan obligations 50 ●
EC4 Signiﬁ  cant ﬁ  nancial assistance received from government 19, 65 ●
EC5 Comparison of standard entry level wage with local minimum wage 52 ● 1
EC6 Local supplier spend at signiﬁ  cant locations of operation 19 ▲ SOC-A3
EC7 Local hiring at signiﬁ  cant locations of operation 49 ● 6 ECO-3
EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services 55-59 ●
EC9 Understanding and describing signiﬁ  cant indirect economic impacts 19, 55-57 ▲|   69GRI
INDICATORGENERAL DESCRIPTION PAGEGRI
STATUSCOMPACT
PRINCIPLE(S)IPIECA
INDICATOR
ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS (UN8)
EN Disclosure on management approach to environmental aspects 29-30 ● 7
EN1, EN2 Materials used and percentage recycled input materials 37 ● 9
EN3, EN4 Direct and indirect energy use by primary source 35-36 ● ENV-5
EN5 - EN7 Energy conservation and efﬁ  ciency initiatives and improvements 36 ● 9 ENV-5 & A8
EN8, EN9 Total water withdrawal by source, signiﬁ  cantly affected water sources 37-38 ● 9 ENV-A7
EN10 Water recycled and reused 37-38 ▲ 9
EN11, EN12 Proximity of protected areas/areas of high biodiversity 45 ●
EN13, EN14 Habitats protected or restored and management of biodiversity impacts 44-45 ● 7 ENV-A9
EN15 Number of IUCN Red List and national conservation list species 45 ▲
EN16, EN17 Total direct and indirect and other relevant greenhouse gas emissions 32-34 ● ENV-3 & 4
EN18 Greenhouse gas reduction initiatives and results 30-32 ● 7, 9
EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 37 ▲
EN20 NOx, SOx, and other signiﬁ  cant air emissions 36-37 ● ENV-A6
EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 38-39 ● ENV-2 & A2
EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 42 ●ENV-A3,
A4 & A5
EN23 Total number and volume of signiﬁ  cant spills 39-40 ● ENV-1 & A1
EN24 Basel Convention waste management summary 42 ●
EN25 Biodiversity value of receiving waters for water discharges and runoff 39 ●
EN26 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 61-64 ● 7, 8
EN27 Products sold and packaging reclaimed 37, 61 ● 9
EN28 Fines, penalties and noncompliances 43-44 ●
EN29 Transportation impacts 34 ●
EN30 Environmental expenditures 43 ▲ 7, 9
Environmental management systems 13-14 ENV-6
LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK
LADisclosure on management approach to employment, labor/management 
relations, training and education and diversity and equal opportunity47 ●
Disclosure on management approach to occupational health and safety 21 ●
LA1 Total workforce by employment type, contract and region 47 ●
LA2Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group,
gender and region47-48 ▲ 6
LA3Beneﬁ  ts provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary 
or part-time employees, by major operations50 ▲
LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 52 ● 1, 3
LA5 Minimum notice period of signiﬁ  cant operational changes 52 ● 3
LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in joint safety committees 25-26 ● 1 H&S-2
LA7 Injury, occupational illness, lost days, absenteeism and fatalities by region 21-25 ▲ 1 H&S-4
LA8Programs to assist workforce, their families and communities with
serious diseases50-51 ● 1 H&S-3
LA9 Health and safety topics covered in collective bargaining agreements 26 ●
LA10 Average hours of training per employee by employee category 53 ● SOC-5
LA11 Programs for skills management, lifelong learning, career endings 52-53 ●
LA12 Percent employees receiving regular performance and development reviews 53 ●
LA13 Governing bodies and employees by category according to diversity indicators 48, 66 ● 1, 6 SOC-4
LA14 Ratio of basic salary of women to men by employee category 52 ▲ 1, 6
Health and safety management systems 13-14 H&S-1Employee satisfaction 50-51 SOC-A2
Non-retaliation and grievance system 12-13 SOC-670   |GRI Content Index
GRI
INDICATORGENERAL DESCRIPTION PAGEGRI
STATUSCOMPACT
PRINCIPLE(S)IPIECA
INDICATOR
HUMAN RIGHTS
HR Disclosure on management approach to human rights aspects 16 ●
HR1Signiﬁ  cant investment agreements that include or are screened
for human rights17 ▲ 1-6
HR2 Signiﬁ  cant suppliers/contractors screened for human rights 17, 19 ▲ 1-6
HR3 Employee training on policies and procedures concerning human rights 17 ▲ 1-6
HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 49 ● 1, 2, 6  
HR5 Operations at risk re: freedom of association and collective bargaining 52 ● 1, 2, 3
HR6 Operations at risk re: child labor 18 ● 1, 2, 5
HR7 Operations at risk re: forced and compulsory labor 18 ● 1, 2, 4
HR8 Security personnel trained on human rights 17 ▲ 1, 2
HR9 Violations of indigenous peoples’ rights 18 ● 1, 2
SOCIETY
SODisclosure on management approach to corruption, public policy,
anti-competitive behavior and compliance11, 12 ● 10
Disclosure on management approach to community 18, 55 ●
SO1Programs and practices that assess and manage impacts of operations
on communities19, 55 ●SOC-A7
& SOC-8
SO2 Business units analyzed for risks related to corruption 11 ● 10
SO3 Employees trained in anti-corruption policies and procedures 12 ▲ 10
SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 12 ● 10
SO5Public policy positions/participation in public policy developmentand lobbying14
● 1-10 SOC-A1
SO6 Political contributions 13 ● 10 SOC-3
SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior and outcomes 11 ●
SO8 Fines and penalties for noncompliance with laws and regulations 11 ●
Bribery and corruption, transparency of payment 11-12, 16SOC-2, 
ECO-A1
External capacity building 55-59 SOC-A5
PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY
PR Disclosure on management approach to product responsibility 61 ●
PR1 Lifecycle assessment for health and safety impacts of products/services 61 ● 1
PR2Noncompliances with health and safety impact requirements for
products/services61 ● 1
PR3 Product and service labeling requirements for signiﬁ  cant products 61 ● 8
PR4 Noncompliances with product and service labeling requirements 61 ● 8
PR5 Customer satisfaction practices 64-65 ●
PR6 Marketing communications compliance programs 65 ●
PR7 Noncompliance with marketing communications regulations/voluntary codes 65 ●
PR8 Substantiated customer privacy complaints and data loss 65 ● 1
PR9 Fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations re: products and services 61 ●|   71SCOPE AND OBJECTIVES 
ERM Certiﬁ  cation & Veriﬁ  cation Services (ERM CVS) was 
commissioned by Hess Corporation to undertake veriﬁ  cation 
of its 2009 Corporate Sustainability Report (the Report). The objective of the veriﬁ  cation was to establish that the information 
presented is a reliable representation of Hess Corporation’s performance and programs, and that the data presented conform to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 and also the IPIECA/API Reporting Framework guidelines.
The Management of Hess Corporation is responsible for the 
information contained within the Report.
VERIFICATION APPROACH
We based our work on Hess Corporation’s internal guidance and deﬁ nitions for the reported metrics. Our assurance approach 
was developed with reference to the International Standard for Assurance Engagements 3000: Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Information issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (ISAE 3000); as well as principles that ERM CVS has developed and reﬁ  ned for report assurance assessments. 
Our work involved detailed challenge of information through selected interrogation of both source and consolidated data in conjunction with interviews with operational and corporate staff with responsibilities for data management and report content. Substantiation of a sample of statements and claims made in the Report has been undertaken.
Our veriﬁ  cation included a review of activities and source data 
at the following Hess operations: Exploration and Production (E&P) operations in Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area Block A-18; Equatorial Guinea; Permian Basin and Seminole Gas Plant, Texas, U.S. ; and Marketing and Reﬁ  ning (M&R) 
operations at the HOVENSA joint venture reﬁ  nery in St. Croix, 
U.S. Virgin Islands; and U.S. oil products storage terminals in Brooklyn, New York and Wilmington, North Carolina. These operations are among Hess’ most signiﬁ  cant in terms of size 
and throughput. Our review also included visits to ofﬁ  ces in 
Houston, Texas, and Woodbridge, New Jersey to assess and review data collection, data management and internal data assurance processes.OPINION & RECOMMENDATIONS
In the opinion of ERM CVS, Hess Corporation has continued to improve the quality, breadth of information and overall presentation of the sustainability data and we are not aware of the exclusion of any material issues or of any misstatements made in relation to the information presented. ERM CVS has evaluated the Report for conformance to GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and supports Hess Corporation’s assertion that the Report meets the GRI application level A+.
Our key observations build on those provided by ERM CVS 
previously and the work that Hess Corporation has accomplished this year and is committed to pursuing further. These are to:•  Continue to apply and improve reliable methodologies
and processes to capture data across all operations,including drilling programs, supporting this with theprovision of user guidance related to data collectionrequirements.
•  For information and metrics that are not fully reported,
review the materiality of these periodically and in lightof stakeholder feedback to ensure adequaterepresentation in future reports.
OUR INDEPENDENCE
ERM CVS, responsible for reporting to Hess Corporation on its assurance conclusions, is a member of the ERM Group. This is the eighth year that ERM CVS has been engaged by Hess Corporation in this role. The work that ERM CVS conducts for clients is solely related to independent assurance activities and training programmes related to auditing techniques and approaches. Our processes are designed to ensure that the work we undertake with clients is free from bias and conﬂ  ict of 
interest. ERM CVS and the staff that have undertaken work on this assurance exercise provide no consultancy related services to Hess Corporation in any respect.
Leigh Lloyd, Managing Director
June 2010
ERM Certiﬁ  cation and Veriﬁ  cation Services, London
www.ermcvs.com  |   email: post@ermcvs.com
VERIFICATION 
STATEMENT72   |AWARDS AND RECOGNITION
• Hess Chairman and CEO John Hess 
earns  2009 Responsible CEO of 
the Year Award  from Corporate 
Responsibility Ofﬁ  cer (CRO) Magazine.
• Ranks 10th among CRO Magazine’s 
100 BEST CORPORATE CITIZENS .
• The Carbon Disclosure Project  
includes Hess on its S&P 500 and Global 500 leadership indices, ranking the company third in the energy sector.
• The NASDAQ OMX includes Hess 
in its CRD Global Sustainability 50 
Index  for leadership in sustainability 
performance reporting.
• Hess placed in Winner’s Circle 
by Goldman Sachs SUSTAIN Focus List  for superior long 
term environmental, social and governance performance.
• oekom research AG awards Hess 
its prime status for oil and gas 
industry leadership .
• Hess third among large-cap 
companies on Forbes Most 
Trusted Companies  list.• Target Hunger gives Hess the  
Harvesting Hope Humanitarian Award .
• Hess voted Corporate Citizen of
the Year  by Woodbridge (N.J.) 
Chamber of Commerce.
• CIO magazine honors Hess for 
Innovative Technology  for disaster 
recovery efforts after Hurricane Ike in Houston, Texas.
• The American Heart Association 
awards Hess its START! Fit 
Friendly Award  for U.S. operations 
and HOVENSA.
• Workforce Diversity for Engineering 
and IT Professionals lists Hess among the Top 50 Employers in 
the U.S.
• Diversity/Careers in Engineering
and IT lists Hess among theTop 100 U.S. Employers .
• Woman Engineer ranks Hess among 
the Top 50 Employers in the U.S.  
on the 2009 Readers Choice list. 
• The Black Collegian ranks Hess
No. 91 on the Top Employers for 
the Class of 2009 .
SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY
WORKFORCE
For copies of our Environment, Health and Safety Policy, Human Rights Policy or our Corporate Social Responsibility Policy, or 
for more information regarding our operations, please visit our Web site at www.hess.com. 
We invite your questions, comments and suggestions regarding this report. To send us your questions or comments, or request 
more information or additional copies of this report, please contact:
Vice President, 
Environment, Health, Safety and Social Responsibility 
Hess Corporation
1185 Avenue of the Americas 
New York, NY 10036
You can also send us an e-mail at ehs@hess.com.REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION
Sandy Alexander  Inc., an ISO 14001:2004 certiﬁ  ed printer with Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) Chain of Custody 
printed the Hess Annual Corporate Sustainability Report with the use of renewable wind power resulting in nearly zero 
carbon emissions. This report was printed on FSC-certiﬁ  ed Mohawk Options paper, a process-chlorine-free 100 percent 
post-consumer waste (PCW) paper manufactured entirely with 100 percent certiﬁ  ed wind energy and containing 100 
percent post-consumer recycled ﬁ  ber.
The savings below are achieved when PC recycled ﬁ  ber is used in place of virgin ﬁ  ber: 
                132 trees            preserved for the future
                   381 lbs            waterborne waste not created
       55,983 gallons            wastewater ﬂ  ow saved
                6,194 lbs            solid waste not generated
              12,196 lbs            net greenhouse gases prevented
 93,350,400 BTUs  energy not consumed
Savings from the use of emission-free wind-generated electricity: 
 11,905 lbs  air emissions not generated
Displaces this amount of fossil fuel:
                 7 barrels            of crude oil
In other words your savings from the use of wind-generated electricity are equivalent to: 
             Not driving            4,959 miles
 Planting  809 trees
Cert n o.  BV-COC-0809031185 Avenue of the Americas 
New York, New York 10036
www.hess.com