2012 Corporate Sustainability ReportOn the cover: Hess North Dakota Drilling OperationsNote: Following a review by ERM CVS, our external verifier, Hess is 
self-declaring a GRI Application level of A+ in conformance with the 
GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.REPORT APPLICATION LEVELSCC + BB + AA +
Third
Party
CheckedSelf
Declar ed
Report Exter nally Assur ed
Report Exter nally Assur ed
Report Exter nally Assur ed
GRI
CheckedOptional Mandatory
CC + BB + AA +
Third
Party
CheckedSelf
Declar ed
Report Exter nally Assur ed
Report Exter nally Assur ed
GRI
CheckedOptional Mandatory
✓✓
VERIFICATION
ERM Certificatio n and Verification Services (ERM CVS) conducted representative site visits, reviewed source data and 
our internal data collection and aggregation system and conducted interviews to ensure the information presented is  
a reliable presentation of our performance. An ERM CVS assurance statement has been included at the end of this 
report. ERM CVS also provided an opinion on the GRI Application Level.This is our Communication on Progress  
in implementing the principles of the  
United Nations Global Compact.
We welcome feedback on its contents.OUR VALUES
Hess Values set the framework and establish the ethical standards by which we conduct our business. 
Integrity. We are committed to the highest level of integrity in all 
our relationships. 
People. We are committed to attracting, retaining and energizing 
the best people by investing in their professional development and 
providing them with challenging and rewarding opportunities for 
personal growth.
Performance. We are committed to a culture of performance that 
demands and rewards outstanding results throughout our business. 
Value Creation.  We are committed to creating shareholder value 
based on sustained financial performance and long term profitable growth. 
Social Responsibility.  We are committed to meeting the highest standards of corporate citizenship  
by protecting the health and safety of our employees, safeguarding the environment and creating a long  
lasting, positive impact on the communities where we do business.
Independent Spirit. We are committed to preserving the special qualities and unique personality that  
have made us a successful independent enterprise.Integrity
People Performance
Value
CreationSocial
Responsibility
Independent
SpiritMessage from the CEO
Progress and Goals
About Hess
Approach to Reporting
How We Operate
 Community and Social Performance
Safety and Health
Global Workforce
Climate Change and Energy
Environment
Assets in Transition
Performance Data
GRI Content Index
ERM CVS Assurance Statement
Awards and Recognition2
4
6
8
10
22
30
38
44
52
60
63
67
70
71TABLE OF 
CONTENTS22
30
38
44
5210MESSAGE FROM THE CEO
Sustainable business practices are essential to ensuring 
our license to operate, managing risks, operating 
efficiently and developing growth opportunities. 
John B. Hess   
Chief Executive Officer
Stakeholder expectations are rising for the energy industry to 
increase transparency, promote human rights, minimize adverse 
environmental and socioeconomic impacts, combat corruption, 
responsibly manage suppliers and provide clean energy options. 
These issues present challenges and opportunities for our 
industry and our business. 
Across our company in 2012, we engaged in intensive efforts  
to drive operational excellence, capital discipline, risk 
management, innovation, trusted partnerships and the 
professional development of our people. We further integrated 
environmental and social considerations into our enterprise risk 
management, new country entry and investment processes.  
We established the role of Chief Compliance Officer to improve 
our compliance related controls and incorporate best practices.
Climate change is a global challenge that must be met with 
collective action. We have spoken openly about the need for 
United States and world leaders to work with industry to 
develop comprehensive energy and climate policies that will 
help meet future energy demand and reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions. Transparent and equitable carbon price signals 
should be given serious consideration as the domestic and 
global economies recover from the sustained recession. 
In the United States, the dual application of horizontal drilling 
and hydraulic fracturing has made the production of natural  
gas and crude oil from low permeability geologic formations 
economically feasible, which has significantly improved the 
nation’s energy security. The challenge is to produce this 
energy responsibly and transparently. Shale gas has resulted  
in relatively low natural gas prices, lowering the costs of both  
raw materials and energy. Natural gas continues to capture a Hess is committed to help meet the world’s growing energy 
needs while making a positive impact on the communities 
where we do business. We strive each day to be a trusted 
energy partner that ensures the safety of our workforce and 
host communities and protects and preserves the environment. 
Sustainable business practices are essential to ensuring our 
license to operate, managing risks, operating efficiently and 
developing growth opportunities. 
Our company’s long term vision for the future is based on the  
Hess Values of Integrity, People, Performance, Value Creation, 
Social Responsibility and Independent Spirit. We operationalize 
our Values through our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, 
which guides the way we do business and helps us develop 
trusted relationships with our stakeholders, including communities, 
employees, customers, business partners and shareholders. 
Earlier this year we announced the final phase of a strategy that 
will transform Hess into a pure play exploration and production 
company. This strategy, which includes fully exiting our 
downstream businesses, will result in a portfolio of higher growth, 
lower risk assets. We believe we will have the financial flexibility to 
pursue growth at the same time that we increase current returns 
to shareholders and generate significant future value. 
As an energy provider, we help play a critical role in economic 
development. As living standards rise in emerging economies, 
world demand for fossil fuels continues to grow. While 
alternative and renewable energy is needed and should be 
encouraged to help meet long term energy demand and reduce 
carbon emissions, hydrocarbons will continue to supply the 
majority of demand for the foreseeable future.2   
 MESSAGE FROM THE CEOJohn B. Hess  
Chief Executive Officergrowing share of electricity generation and industrial and 
commercial energy demand. Combined with improvements in 
energy efficiency and growth in renewable energy, U.S. energy 
related carbon emissions are now below 2005 levels. 
We participate in and support key international multi-stakeholder 
frameworks that inform and guide our approach to transparency, 
human rights and the environment. These include the United 
Nations Global Compact, the Voluntary Principles on Security 
and Human Rights and the Extractive Industries Transparency 
Initiative. We endorse and uphold the international standards set 
out in the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights and the 
International Labor Organization Declaration on Fundamental 
Principles and Rights at Work. 
Overall workforce safety performance at Hess improved in  
2012 by 13 percent, our best result ever, and we further 
enhanced our process safety program. The programs we 
introduced in response to the deterioration in contractor safety 
performance in 2011 have proven effective in addressing the 
challenges we faced in our growing United States shale energy 
business. Tragically, we suffered two separate fatalities in 2012, 
our first since 2008. These fatalities serve to remind us that our 
work to keep our people safe can never stop as we continue to 
strive to eliminate all accidents from our business.
Strategic social investment advances our goal of making a 
measurable, positive social impact where we operate and is  
a valuable tool for community and stakeholder engagement.  
We focus on education and health because we rely on a 
well-educated and highly skilled workforce. In 2012 we  
invested $40 million in education, health and community 
development projects in more than 20 countries. We launched  
a Hess Scholars program in Ghana to increase access to 
secondary education for promising low-income students. In 
Equatorial Guinea we concluded the first phase of our program 
to improve the quality of primary education and prepared to 
launch a program to improve education for secondary school 
students. In North Dakota, we started Succeed 2020, a 
program to improve school to career transition. 
We approved a new Hess Security and Human Rights Policy in 
early 2013. This policy formalizes expectations that our security 
providers adhere to applicable international law enforcement 
principles, international humanitarian law and international human 
rights law in a manner that is consistent with the Voluntary 
Principles. We put new contract clauses in place that require  our security contractors to communicate our ethics, human rights 
and social responsibility expectations to their employees and 
subcontractors, as well as demonstrate compliance.
We continued to implement our five year climate change 
strategy based on a 2008 baseline. We achieved our 50  
percent combined flaring reduction target for Algeria and 
Equatorial Guinea ahead of schedule. While we will not achieve 
our five year net equity greenhouse gas emissions intensity 
target due to significant portfolio changes, we expect absolute 
emissions to be three to four million tonnes lower in 2013  
than in 2008. In 2012 we integrated the cost of carbon in all 
significant future capital investment decisions, began planning 
for our next generation climate change strategy, and focused  
on reducing flaring in our operations in North Dakota. We aim  
to be transparent about our climate change programs and 
performance, and we were included in the Carbon Disclosure 
Project’s Global 500 and S&P leadership indices for the fourth 
straight year for the quality of our disclosures. We also 
developed a corporate policy on climate change and energy 
that will be introduced in 2013. 
Essential to Hess’ future success is a strong culture and high 
quality workforce that will continue to innovate, lead and learn.  
In 2012 work teams gathered information, conducted focus 
groups and externally benchmarked other companies to inform 
these improvement initiatives as part of a multiyear planning 
process. Areas examined by these teams include the Hess 
culture, the Hess environment for innovation, attracting and 
retaining our talented workforce, diversity and inclusion, and the 
ways in which we promote learning, development and leadership. 
Throughout this report, we describe our short and medium term 
goals and long term vision, our challenges and opportunities 
and our performance. With the ongoing support of our 
communities, employees, customers, business partners and 
investors, we are confident that we are building a sustainable 
enterprise that will continue to make a positive impact on the 
world around us.3   
 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPROGRESS AND GOALS
It is an ongoing challenge for our industry and our company 
to meet society’s growing need for energy in a profitable way 
that is environmentally responsible, socially sensitive and 
safe. At Hess we recognize that non-technical risks (NTR)
associated with communities, stakeholder relationships  
and public perception can impact project outcomes and 
business success. The sustainability goals and targets we 
have established indicate our commitment to improve 
performance across a range of material issues and address 
challenges facing Hess today.
2012 PROGRESS
During 2012 we took steps to improve how we understand 
and manage NTR in our day-to-day operations. Early in  
the year we conducted a gap analysis of our operations 
against increasing stakeholder expectations and expanding 
voluntary reporting requirements. Using the results, we 
formed an internal cross-functional task force to develop 
formal action plans based on their impact to long term 
organizational strategy.
Policies and Guidelines
To manage these risks more effectively, we develop and 
implement policies and standards across our operations. 
Examples include a new corporate policy on Security  
and Human Rights, an improved contractor management 
program and development of guidelines for planning 
stakeholder engagement at all project sites. 
Processes
We continue to enhance systems for managing potential 
impacts across each project’s life cycle. We have increased 
the number of high level risk assessments conducted across 
our assets. We also introduced a new country entry process 
that incorporates a full assessment of NTR into country entry 
decision making.
Metrics
In 2009 we established a greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
intensity target (equity basis) of a 20 percent reduction against a 2008 baseline. The higher carbon intensity of 
exploration and production operations, combined with 
reduced production and throughput from asset sales and 
facility closures, mean that our normalized target is no longer 
achievable. However, since 2008 we have reduced absolute 
GHG emissions (equity basis) by 26 percent (2.8 million 
tonnes) through 2012. 
2013 GOALS
We strive for continuous improvement and top quartile 
performance. In 2013 we will expand our corporate 
sustainability goals beyond climate change and energy to 
include policies, processes and metrics across our business 
that will help to address the material sustainability issues facing 
Hess and the oil and gas industry at large. These goals build 
on our progress to date and are informed by our 2012 gap 
analysis, our stakeholder materiality assessment and valuation 
of environmental and social risk factors for capital projects.
Policies and Guidelines
To drive consistency and continuous improvement in 2013, 
we will begin rolling out our new Global Standards and will 
begin to develop a standardized process for conducting 
environmental and social impact assessments (ESIAs),  
due diligence, and baseline assessments. We will further 
enhance process safety management by fully aligning with 
industry guidance on process safety indicators.
Processes
To reduce our flaring rates over the long term, by 2014 we 
will complete four gas gathering projects to increase capture 
at our largest shale energy assets in the Bakken formation. 
To mitigate long term social risk, we are piloting a grievance 
mechanism and updating our reporting system to track and 
address community incidents.
Metrics
We will evaluate setting a new GHG reduction target for 
2014-2019, taking into account the restructuring of Hess 
into a pure play exploration and production company. 4   
 PROGRESS AND GOALSSUSTAINABILITY GOALS AND TARGETSTARGET  
DATEDISCUSSION
(PAGE #)
How We Operate
Begin phased rollout and implementation of new Global Standards 2013 4, 35, 55
Continue to integrate sustainability into enterprise risk functions 2013 13-14
Community and Social Performance
Pilot test a grievance mechanism at one of our assets and roll out site-specific  
grievance mechanism guidance 2013 27
Update our companywide incident reporting system to include a mechanism for  
reporting community incidents2014 25-27
Further integrate human rights and freedom of association risk considerations into the 
supply chain via prequalification screening and human rights clauses in contracts and 
investment agreements2014 27
Pilot a Security and Human Rights Toolkit for country managers 2013 29
Safety and Health
Further develop and deepen leadership engagement 2013 31
Enhance process safety management and fully align with industry guidance on  
process safety indicators2013 34-35
Aim for top quartile personal safety performance as measured by total recordable  
injury/illness rate2013 30-32
Strengthen contractor management 2013 32-34
Global Workforce
Continue multiyear Hess Culture initiative by defining goals with respect to leadership  
behaviors, performance management and professional development2013 40-41
Climate Change and Energy
Achieve an absolute GHG emissions reduction of 3 million to 4 million tonnes  
(equity basis)2013 45-46
Complete four gas gathering projects in North Dakota to monetize associated gas  
and reduce flaring2014 47-48
Update five year GHG and energy efficiency strategy and targets 2014 45-46
Environment
Develop a global, standardized process for conducting ESIAs, due diligence and  
baseline assessments2013 54
Conduct two asset-level reviews to determine performance against the Environmentally 
Friendly Drilling Scorecard 2013 555   
 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTHess has made significant progress  
in our transformation from an integrated  
oil and gas company to a focused, higher 
growth, pure play exploration and production 
(E&P) company. 
In 2012 the company operated in the E&P and the 
Marketing and Refining (M&R) segments. E&P is 
involved in the exploration and production of crude 
oil and natural gas. In M&R we purchase, market 
and trade refined petroleum products, natural gas 
and electricity. ABOUT 
HESS
Exploration
Exploration locations include  
offshore Ghana and the  Kurdistan  
Region of Iraq .
Developments
Developments are underway at several 
assets, including multi-phased 
developments at South Arne  in Denmark, 
Tubular Bells  in the Gulf of Mexico, the  
North Malay Basin  in Malaysia and the 
Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development 
Area  (JDA) in the Gulf of Thailand.
Production
Production operations are ongoing 
globally. Key production assets include 
the Bakken  in North Dakota, Okume  and 
Ceiba  in Equatorial Guinea, South Arne , 
Valhall  and JDA. Exploration     Production     DevelopmentHess 2012 Portfolio of Operations
EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION 
Our E&P strategy has shifted from high impact 
exploration to development of shale resources, 
exploitation of existing discoveries and a more 
focused and higher growth exploration program.
2012 Highlights
  55 million barrels of oil equivalent ( BOE)  were 
converted from proved undeveloped reserves to 
proved developed reserves
  North Dakota year-over-year production increased  
87 percent to 56,000 BOE/D
  Four successful exploration wells were drilled  
on the Deepwater Tano/Cape Three Points block, 
offshore Ghana 
280 Asia
Africa
Europe
United States257
476
540Proved Reserves (Million BOE)
406,000
BOE/D Total Net 
Hydrocarbons 
Produced141%
Replaced 
Production10.3
Years
Reserve Life1,553
Million BOE  
Proved Reserves*As of December 31, 20126   
 ABOUT HESSECONOMIC CONTRIBUTIONS
In 2012 our direct economic contributions 
exceeded $20 billion, including capital and 
exploration expenditures, payments to suppliers, 
wages and benefits, taxes and royalties, interest, 
dividends and social investments.
MARKETING AND REFINING
In 2012 Hess operated terminals and retail gasoline 
stations, most of which include convenience stores. 
Through February 2013, Hess also manufactured 
refined petroleum products. 
In January 2012 HOVENSA, a 50 percent owned  
joint venture in the U.S. Virgin Islands, shut down  
its refinery in St. Croix. In February 2013 we ceased 
operations at our Port Reading facility and announced 
our intention to sell our terminal network. 
In March 2013 the company announced its intention 
to fully exit all downstream businesses, including 
retail, energy marketing and energy trading. Until  
that process is complete, we will continue our 
long-standing commitment to our customers to 
deliver a secure product supply, competitive prices 
and high quality service.Economic Contributions
$ Millions
  Capital and Exploration 
Expenditures $8,265
  Recordable Supplier Spend 
$8,020
 Income Tax Expense $1,675
  Wages and Benefits (U.S.) 
$1,045
  Royalties and Other Payments 
$920
 Interest Expense $419
 Dividends Paid $171
 Social Investments $40
 Carbon and NO x Taxes $640%8%5%4%
39%2%1% < 1%
< 1%
Retail Marketing
1,361 gasoline stations in 16 states in the 
Eastern U.S. and the District of Columbia
Refining and Terminals
A fluid catalytic cracking facility in Port 
Reading, N.J., 19 U.S. East Coast terminals 
and one St. Lucia terminal with combined 
capacity of 38 million barrels 
Energy Marketing
Leading energy marketer in the Eastern 
U.S., supplying fuel oil, natural gas and 
electricity to more than 21,000 
commercial, industrial and small  
business customers
Electricity Operations
512-Megawatt (MW) joint venture Bayonne 
Energy Center serving New York City
$1,123
Million in 
Convenience  
Store Sales2,300,000
MCF/D* Natural  
Gas Sales
*Thousand cubic feet/day389,000
BOE/D Refined 
Petroleum 
Product Sales4,500
MW-RTC* 
Electricity Sales
*Megawatt – round the clock7   
 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTAPPROACH TO REPORTING
This report provides information on our sustainability policies, programs and performance in 2012. Additional sustainability 
information is available at hess.com/sustainability. Financial and governance information, including our annual report, U.S. 
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Form 10-K filing and our proxy statement, is available at hess.com/investors.  
All financial data are reported in U.S. dollars.
REPORTING STANDARDS
We report our sustainability performance on an annual  
basis in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative  
(GRI) G3.1/Oil & Gas Sector Supplement guidelines to an  
A+ application level. We also follow the IPIECA, American 
Petroleum Institute and International Oil and Gas Producers 
Association Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary 
Sustainability Reporting. A GRI Content Index, cross-
referenced with the IPIECA indicators and the 10 Principles 
of the United Nations Global Compact (UN Global Compact), 
is provided at the end of this report.
BOUNDARY SETTING
The scope of this report includes principal facilities and 
assets operated by Hess Corporation and its subsidiaries 
and joint ventures through 2012, unless otherwise indicated. 
Data presented are gross figures from operated facilities and third party activities where Hess has overall responsibility as 
specified in contractual arrangements. Health, safety and 
environment data for joint ventures where we have significant 
influence, as defined by the GRI’s guidance on boundary 
setting, are reported separately in the performance data 
table at the end of this report. These joint ventures include 
SonaHess (Algeria) and Carigali Hess Malaysia/Thailand 
Joint Development Area Block A-18. For our former 
subsidiary in Russia, Samara-Nafta, we include net equity 
greenhouse gas (GHG) data and social investment spending.
We report some quantitative environment, health and safety 
data on a normalized basis to facilitate year-on-year 
comparisons. We report GHG emissions on an operated basis 
for Hess operated assets, and on a net equity share basis for 
operated facilities, joint ventures and non-operated facilities in 
which we hold an interest. Data for the joint venture Bayonne 
Energy Center, which began operation in June 2012, will be 
reported once a full year of data is available.
Materiality Determination
Our sustainability report describes the company’s 
strategy and performance regarding significant 
topics for Hess and our key stakeholders, including 
employees, suppliers, customers and consumers, 
communities, shareholders, governmental and 
non-governmental organizations and industry 
peers. Topics were chosen and prioritized through  
a materiality assessment process that identifies 
issues for reporting based on the level of internal 
and external stakeholder interest, relevance to our 
operations and level of potential risk and impact.Company ImpactExternal Awareness1
245
63
7810
1112
9
1314
1617
1815
  Low Priority  
Non-Material
  Medium  
Priority
  High  
Priority
1. Shale Energy
2. Governance
3. Process Safety
4. Climate Change and GHG Emissions
5. Water
6. Communities
7. Social Risk
8. Compliance
9. Enterprise Risk Management 10. Energy
11. Human Rights 
12. Public Policy
13. Suppliers
14. Effluents and Waste
15. Anti-corruption and Bribery
16. Diversity and Inclusion
17. Workforce Training and Development
18. Biodiversity8   
 APPROACH TO REPORTINGRESTATEMENTS AND ADDITIONS
There have been no material restatements of information 
from our previous reports.
INTERNAL QUALITY ASSURANCE
We have internal documentation and information systems in 
place to promote consistent and reliable data collection and 
aggregation from all of our Hess operated and joint venture 
assets. We conduct corporate and business level Quality 
Assurance/Quality Control reviews and validation to evaluate 
the accuracy and reliability of facility specific and aggregated data. Due to rounding, individual numbers in the charts and 
tables may not sum to the total amounts shown.
EXTERNAL ASSURANCE
ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) 
conducts annual third party assurance of our environment, 
health, safety and social responsibility data management 
systems to ensure consistent and objective data collection 
and reporting of our sustainability performance. ERM CVS 
also undertakes a third party check of our self-declared  
GRI G3.1 Application Level. The Independent Assurance 
Statement is provided on page 70 of this report. 
Our Commitment to Transparency and Performance
We are committed to transparent communication about our environment, health, safety and social responsibility 
performance. To enhance our reporting against evolving external expectations, in 2012 we conducted a gap 
assessment of our 2010 reporting against new GRI G3.1 and Oil & Gas Sector Supplement (OGSS) guidelines.  
In line with our assessment, the diagram below indicates our key areas for development, when we seek to report  
on our progress and the anticipated level of effort to do so. 
Level of Effort:     Low     Medium     High  
2012 2013 2014
Economic  Increased our understanding 
of infrastructure investments 
for local benefit  Include international employees 
in total employee wages and 
benefits (currently U.S. only)  Report on significant indirect 
economic impacts
   Develop a local content policy
Environment  Communicated and refined 
our flare reduction strategy
   Furthered our understanding 
of significant transportation 
impacts  Begin process of updating 
our five year GHG and energy 
efficiency strategy and targets   Develop a standardized process 
for conducting Environmental 
and Social Impact Assessments, 
due diligence, and baseline 
assessments
   Communicate new GHG and 
energy strategy
Human Rights   Released new corporate policy 
on Security and Human Rights
  Developed a Security and 
Human Rights Toolkit and 
stakeholder mapping tool  Pilot test a grievance 
mechanism 
  Pilot the Security and Human 
Rights Toolkit    Integrate human rights into 
supplier management 
  Complete corporate-wide 
rollout of human rights 
training
Labor Practices   Improved contractor 
management program  Report the percentage of 
employees receiving reviews 
using new career management 
system   Further our talent 
development programs
Society   Further clarified the 
elements of our no-political-
contributions policy and 
reported on our adherence  
to this standard   Pilot an External Sustainability 
Advisory Panel  Update reporting systems to 
include community incidents 9   
 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTHOW WE OPERATE
We are committed to 
delivering long term 
sustainable value to all of our 
shareholders, meeting the highest 
standards of corporate citizenship 
and creating a long lasting positive 
impact on the communities where 
we do business. Our long term vision and six core Hess Values provide a 
foundation for how we do business. The Hess Code of 
Business Conduct and Ethics (Code of Conduct) and  
our Social Responsibility, Human Rights and Environment, 
Health and Safety policies build on our values to define  
our internal expectations for sustainable management  
and performance. 
We are evolving our Management System Framework  
in response to changes in the industry, stakeholder 
expectations and our evolving strategy and portfolio.  
We acknowledge that there are always opportunities  
for improvement. 
We are in the early stages of developing and implementing  
an enhanced framework of policies and standards to 
formalize corporate expectations and accountabilities and 
drive an enterprise-wide rigorous and systematic approach 
to environment, health, safety and social risk management. 
This systematic approach is consistent with broadly 
recognized international standards and guidelines that  
focus on managing health, personal and process safety,  
and social and environmental risks. We expect in 2013 to 
begin applying the Management System Framework and  
Bakken Multi-Well Pad, North Dakotathe upgraded standards. Environment and safety 
performance metrics are also components of the  
bonus formula for executives and employees. 
Internal reviews and audits and third party assurance  
guide our conformance with internal requirements, 
compliance with legal and other requirements and 
disclosure of reliable information to the company’s  
directors and stakeholders. In keeping with a  
precautionary approach, identified risks are evaluated  
and mitigation plans are developed and implemented.
Hess supports international voluntary initiatives to respect 
human rights, protect the environment and encourage 
financial transparency across our operations. We endorse 
and support the United Nations Global Compact, the 
Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, the 
Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, the United 
Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and  
the International Labor Organization’s Declaration on 
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. 
We also participate in several sector-specific and multi-
stakeholder associations. This enables us to learn from 
sector peers and others. It also allows us to grow internal 
capacity and engage with external stakeholders.ETHICAL BUSINESS CONDUCT 
We recently revised and updated our Code of Conduct, 
which sets the standard for how we operate, to explicitly 
align with the Hess Values and reflect new regulations and 
societal expectations. The Code of Conduct is publicly 
available at hess.com/codeofconduct.
The Code of Conduct describes the business conduct 
behaviors that Hess expects of its employees, officers, 
directors and contractors. In 2012 we distributed the new 
Code of Conduct throughout the company with a sign-and-
return requirement. We expect that our suppliers, agents 
and business partners will follow similar principles when 
working for Hess and its subsidiaries. 
The Hess anti-corruption and anti-bribery policy, Executive 
Directive 26 (ED26), aligns with applicable anti-bribery and 
anti-corruption laws. These include the U.S. Foreign Corrupt 
Practices Act (FCPA) and the U.K. Bribery Act. The Code of 
Conduct has been translated for each of our countries of 
operation outside the U.S.
In 2012 there were no legal actions, fines or sanctions 
relating to anti-corruption, anti-bribery, anti-competitive 
behavior or antitrust or monopoly laws or regulations.  
The company takes disciplinary actions for violations of  
Global Compliance Organization
In 2012 Hess added a Chief Compliance Officer 
(CCO) position to strengthen our Global Compliance 
Program. The Global Compliance Program 
establishes, maintains and enforces policies, 
procedures, processes and initiatives to prevent  
and detect compliance violations. Its aim  
is to promote an organizational culture that 
encourages commitment to ethical conduct and 
compliance with the law. The CCO reports to our 
General Counsel and briefs the Audit Committee  
of the Hess Board of Directors.Our compliance policies and procedures all stem  
from the Code of Conduct. 
To continuously improve compliance controls and 
embrace best practices, our Compliance organization 
addresses three key areas: Enterprise Programs, 
Internal Investigations and Anti-Bribery/Anti-Corruption. 
The group expects to increase engagement in 2013, 
providing expanded online training, as well as targeted 
training for specific internal organizations to ensure 
greater knowledge and global compliance. Enhanced 
tracking and reporting mechanisms for employees  
will also promote greater access and transparency. 11   
 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTthe Code of Conduct, including termination of employment 
or services. There were no substantiated allegations of 
corruption in 2012.
Training and Audit
The Hess audit team systematically conducts annual 
companywide anti-corruption risk assessments to determine 
our potential exposure to corruption and identify employees 
who could benefit from additional anti-corruption training. 
An introduction to the Code of Conduct is part of our 
onboarding process for non-Retail and salaried employees. 
Onboarding also includes anti-corruption training. 
We provide ED26 anti-bribery and anti-corruption training  
to employees based on their job responsibilities and countries 
of operation. In 2012 the company provided classroom 
anti-corruption training in accordance with our FCPA audit 
and training policy, which included training for approximately 
20 percent of relevant managers and 20 percent of relevant 
non-managers. Additional anti-corruption training on the 
FCPA and U.K. Bribery Act is scheduled for 2013. 
Hess senior leaders and employees of foreign operations  
are required to annually review and sign off on ED26, the 
FCPA, U.K. Bribery Act and the Code of Conduct.
Confidential Hotline
The Hess confidential hotline, managed by an independent 
third party, includes both telephone and web based reporting 
capabilities. Employees, business partners and customers 
can report allegations of Code of Conduct violations and 
workplace concerns in more than 12 languages. Employees who in good faith report known or suspected 
violations of company policy or make a complaint are 
protected from retaliation. We thoroughly, confidentially and 
promptly investigate allegations related to the Code of Conduct 
or potential violations of law or company policy. Disciplinary 
actions range from counseling and formal correction action 
plans to termination of employment or services. 
Political Contributions
Hess policies prohibit political contributions using corporate 
funds, whether in cash or in-kind, even if the laws of certain 
jurisdictions may permit them. In 2012 there were a handful 
of political contributions made by Hess employees using 
corporate funds, against our policy. Hess is addressing this 
through increased efforts to educate employees on 
compliance with ED26 policies. 
Our Code of Conduct and our anti-corruption and anti-
bribery policy, ED26, prohibit the use of Hess facilities or 
property for campaign activities. We do not make payments 
directly or indirectly to influence the outcome of ballot 
measures. Because our policies prohibit political *  Transparency International’s Corruption Perception Index (CPI) is  
one of the determining factors for country-specific training and  
audit frequency. Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Audit and Training  
Frequency (Years)
Country CPI* Audit Training
5.0-10.0 3 3
3.0-4.9 1-2 2
<3.0 1 1
Wellhead Platform A, Offshore Pangkah, Indonesia12   
 HOW WE OPERATEcontributions, there are no managers in charge of related 
spending decisions, or independent audits. The Chief 
Compliance Officer will oversee enterprise programs to 
report on non-compliance on our Code of Conduct going 
forward. The work of the corporate compliance group will be 
reported on an annual basis to the Audit Committee of the 
Hess Board of Directors.
It is the company’s policy not to coerce political contributions 
from employees, directly or indirectly reimburse an employee 
for a political contribution or channel a contribution through 
an employee to disguise its origin. Hess does not have an 
employee funded PAC. Employees wishing to engage in the 
political process may do so as private citizens.
We annually report and confirm our adherence to our policies 
on corporate political spending to the public. 
For more information, please refer to the Training and Audit and 
Global Compliance Organization sections in this report and our 
Code of Conduct online at hess.com/codeofconduct.
Revenue Transparency
Hess supports revenue transparency through participation  
in the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), a 
voluntary multi-stakeholder initiative that includes oil and 
mining companies, governments, civil society groups, 
international non-governmental organizations and investors. 
As a Supporting Company of the EITI, Hess endorses the 
initiative’s objective to improve governance through 
transparency of company payments to governments. 
We support the EITI’s efforts to attract more countries  
to the initiative. In past years we participated in the EITI  
in Equatorial Guinea (EG), whose candidacy to the  
initiative was not successful. We support EG’s efforts to 
improve revenue transparency. During 2012 we met  
with the World Bank and International Monetary Fund  
(IMF) to discuss their work with Equatorial Guinea on 
transparency initiatives. 
As an operating company of record, we support the EITI  
in Indonesia, which is a Candidate country that is 
progressing toward compliant status. In EITI Compliant or 
Candidate countries where we had equity interests in 2012 but were not the operator, including Azerbaijan, Norway  
and Peru, we complied with the disclosure practices of the 
operating company, in addition to complying with country 
laws and regulations. 
To comply with EITI revenue reporting and disclosure 
requirements in the countries where we do business, Hess 
discloses requested payments based on accounts audited 
to international standards. 
Hess attended the 2012 EITI plenary meeting in Ottawa, 
Ontario and plans to attend the EITI plenary in 2013 in 
Sydney, Australia. 
New Country Entry 
In 2012 we implemented a formalized country risk 
assessment process to enhance the quality of 
information we review before engaging in E&P 
operations in a new country or region. 
As part of the process, Hess subject matter  
experts provide background on the legal, social, 
environmental, commercial and compliance risks of 
operating in the subject country. We evaluate this 
information at key decision points. In 2012 we 
followed the new process to evaluate our potential 
entry into three new countries. 
The key social risks now addressed during our new 
country entry evaluation include but are not limited  
to indigenous peoples’ rights, sources of existing 
conflicts and country reputation for implementing  
the State Duty to Protect Human Rights. The current 
process includes a review of expert opinions from 
governmental sources such as the U.S. State 
Department, as well as leading non-governmental 
organizations. We also conduct a high level review  
of media reports. 
Our country risk assessments help us understand  
the potential risks that can impact our project, as  
well as the risks our project might present to local 
area communities. As there is a cost to mitigating 
risks, the exercise also informs project economics.13   
 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT
Our company’s evolving enterprise risk management program 
is helping us identify and evaluate a range of key potential 
business risks, including those driven by social, safety and 
environmental factors. At Hess, asset leaders attend risk 
management workshops where one of the goals is to identify 
business risks and their underlying drivers. Once we identify 
a risk, leaders evaluate possible approaches to develop 
effective plans that recognize and address potential gaps  
and issues. As a result, we are better able to protect and 
enhance the value of our company and confidently pursue 
new business opportunities. 
We include social and environmental issues, as well as other 
potential risk areas among the factors considered during risk 
assessments. In 2012, for example, we improved our social 
and environmental risk metrics because of increased 
collaboration across functions and among internal subject 
matter experts who help us improve our understanding of 
environmental, health, safety, human rights and community 
engagement risks. We continue to advance a common 
framework for the potential risks we identify and share them 
across functional areas to facilitate risk prioritization, ensure 
consistency and improve internal alignment. This framework 
and associated tools provide us the means to better 
recognize, understand and prioritize key risks that impact 
our business. 
KEY MEMBERSHIPS AND ASSOCIATIONS
Our memberships in industry and business associations 
further our knowledge, understanding and ability to  
address issues that impact our business. They enable us  
to benchmark and share best practices with sector peers, 
contribute to guidance documents on environmental and 
social issues and access tools to manage them.
Hess’ key memberships include IPIECA, the global oil and 
gas association for environmental and social issues, the 
International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (OGP), 
the American Petroleum Institute (API), the Council on 
Foreign Relations, the Center for Strategic and International 
Studies, the National Foreign Trade Council, the National 
Association of Manufacturers, the National Association of 
Convenience Stores, the Retail Energy Supply Association, the Conference Board, the Corporate Council on Africa,  
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the 2012 U.S. Global 
Leadership Conference and the Business Roundtable. 
Within IPIECA we are represented on the Executive 
Committee and participate in the biodiversity, climate change 
reporting and social responsibility working groups. We are 
also represented on the greenhouse gas initiatives, water, 
supply chain and human rights task forces, the occupational 
health committee and the strategic planning group.
We are members of and contribute deepwater and 
emergency response expertise to national and international 
organizations such as the Clean Gulf Cooperative (CGC),  
the Offshore Operators Committee, API, the Oil Spill 
Response Limited (OSRL), OGP and IPIECA.
To address international spill prevention, well capping 
response and spill response capacity we participate in the 
Marine Well Containment Company, the Helix Well Control 
Group, the CGC, OSRL, and the Subsea Well Response 
project (SWRP) consortium. 
To understand trends in regional markets, we belong to 
regional industry and business associations such as the 
Independent Power Producers of New York, local chambers 
of commerce, building associations and state petroleum  
and gas associations. 
We provide funding above routine membership dues to 
associations in recognition of the value they provide to  
our industry. We do not earmark this funding for lobbying. 
We recognize that our positions do not always align with  
all formal positions of the associations, organizations and 
collaborative working groups in which we participate. Our 
funding should not be considered a direct endorsement  
of the entire range of activities undertaken by these 
membership organizations. To address concerns related to 
potential misalignment, we publish our positions on key 
sustainability issues in our Corporate Sustainability Report.
SUPPLIERS
The company spent more than $8 billion on products and 
services with approximately 14,000 vendors, of which 73 
percent were based in the U.S. 14   
 HOW WE OPERATESTAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Our goal is to understand the expectations, priorities and concerns of stakeholders who may be affected by our  
company and who in turn may affect us. We aim to interact and openly communicate with stakeholders to identify 
opportunities that will improve our business operations and strengthen our license to operate. Some examples of  
our 2012 stakeholder engagement can be found below.
COMMUNITIES
Consultation, town halls, 
advisory panels   In Dinarta in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, Hess conducted cultural awareness 
training for staff and held meetings with local representatives before 
conducting seismic surveys.
  In Beetaloo, Australia, our aboriginal affairs advisor created training materials 
on indigenous stakeholder engagement for Hess employees and contractors.
EMPLOYEES
Town halls, surveys,  
intranet, safety  
committees  Hess CEO John Hess hosted several employee engagement events, including 
a Global Town Hall in which he reviewed strategy and performance and 
answered employee questions. 
  Using results from surveys and benchmarking exercises, we analyzed key 
aspects of our corporate culture and identified areas for improvement.
SUPPLIERS
Local content and 
mentoring programs, 
business-to-business 
relationships  Hess plays a leading role in the National Technological Hydrocarbon Institute 
of Equatorial Guinea, which trains nationals for employment.
  In our shale energy business we require contractors to complete a proprietary 
Environment, Health, Safety and Social Responsibility induction training 
module which outlines Hess’ expectations. 
CUSTOMERS
Customer service 
organizations, surveys  Following Superstorm Sandy, hessexpress.com posted real-time fuel inventory 
data for retail sites in the New York tri-state area, directing customers affected by 
the storm to visit sites with sufficient fuel supplies.
  Hess Energy Solutions advises business customers on energy efficiency solutions, 
renewable energy projects and energy optimization.
GOVERNMENTS  
AND MLI s*
Consultation, negotiation, 
legislative and regulatory 
advocacy, voluntary initiatives  Hess engaged with World Bank, IMF , and U.S. and Equatorial Guinea government 
representatives to advocate resuming the EG revenue transparency initiative. 
  We engaged with government stakeholders on legislative and regulatory  
issues in North Dakota, contributing operational knowledge to the state’s 
investment efforts.
CIVIL SOCIETY
Partnerships, voluntary 
initiatives, funding  Hess participates in the Ceres Working Group, Reducing Environmental Risks 
from Shale Gas, to research and promote water management practices.
  Hess joined business, government and civil society representatives at the first  
UN Forum on Business and Human Rights. 
SHAREHOLDERS  
AND INVESTORS
Dialogue, consultation, 
annual meeting, surveys 
and conferences   Hess regularly speaks with the environment, social and governance  
investment community.
  Hess meets semiannually with each of its 50 largest investors and regularly  
hosts investor lunches and breakfasts for institutional shareholders.
INDUSTRY SECTOR
Trade and professional 
associations,  
benchmarking  Hess participates in multi-stakeholder forums to foster sustainable water use  
in shale oil and gas resource extraction. Examples include the Energy Water 
Initiative and Colorado School of Mines Modeling Consortium.
*Multi-lateral institutions
15   
 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSmall, Diverse and Local Suppliers
In 2012, 37 percent of our U.S. suppliers were small,  
diverse and local, and 12 percent were minority- and 
women-owned. Small and diverse suppliers accounted  
for 24 percent of our U.S. supplier spend. 
In U.S. Exploration and Production (E&P), small and diverse 
businesses comprised 38 percent of U.S. vendors but 
accounted for only 18 percent of spend since a high 
proportion of our budget was for major capital projects.  
E&P conducted business with more than 3,700 international 
vendors in 2012. Outside the U.S., E&P often prioritizes the 
inclusion of local suppliers in production sharing contracts with 
host countries. These agreements often include local spend 
thresholds and names of government-approved local vendors.
Hess’ supplier diversity practices are a key part of our 
Marketing and Refining (M&R) strategy. Since launching  
the Hess Supplier Diversity Policy in 2010, M&R continues  
to grow its Supplier Diversity Program, which provides 
opportunities to small and diverse suppliers as part of the 
procurement process. As a result of these efforts, we have 
achieved an “outstanding” rating for supplier diversity from 
the U.S. Small Business Administration. In 2012 our M&R 
business spent $490 million for products and services from 
small and diverse suppliers, an increase from $372 million in 
2009. Small and diverse businesses now account for 46 
percent of M&R supplier spend. Our dedication to supplier 
diversity is helping us drive our government customer base and meet U.S. federal government supply chain diversity 
subcontracting requirements. 
Supplier Engagement
Hess continues to engage suppliers on issues that are 
important to our industry and our stakeholders. Since 2009 
we have worked with current and prospective suppliers of 
hydraulic fracturing services to define acceptable fracturing 
fluid systems and we have encouraged suppliers to publicly 
disclose fracturing fluid chemical composition data. 
Supplier Qualifications and Compliance
Our contractor management program addresses 
prequalification, selection, monitoring and review of our 
contractors, with particular focus on contractors engaged  
in higher risk activities. For additional information about  
this and other supplier initiatives, refer to the Community  
and Social Performance and Safety and Health sections  
later in this report.
Hess conducts quarterly reviews of its suppliers to ensure 
compliance with the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office 
of Foreign Assets Control and the U.S. Patriot Act. Contracts 
for goods and services typically include requirements for 
supplier compliance with applicable laws and regulations in 
areas such as safety, health, environment, process safety, 
drug and alcohol use, business ethics, conflicts of interest, 
the FCPA and labor practices.
International Supplier Spend by Country
$ MillionsSmall Business Supplier Spend (U.S.)
Women and minority data shown above represent percentages of total 
small business spend. Data are based on the October 1, 2011-September 
30, 2012 timeframe.20106%11%28%
7%10%29%
6%8%24%
2011 2012035%
30%
25%
20%
15%
10%
5% Minority     Women     Small Businesses
  Equatorial Guinea $628
  Denmark $392
 Indonesia $353
 U.K. $344
 Australia $339
 Ghana $227
 Malaysia $128
 Norway $56
 Other $8725%
15%
14%9%5%
14%13%2%3%16   
 HOW WE OPERATESHALE ENERGY
The presence of vast quantities of oil and natural gas in 
formations with low permeability, including deep shale,  
has been known for decades. It is now economically  
feasible to recover shale oil and gas due to a combination  
of sophisticated horizontal drilling and completions 
technologies and improvements in a proven well stimulation 
method referred to as hydraulic fracturing.
In 2012 we conducted development and production activities 
in the Bakken formation of North Dakota and the Eagle  
Ford formation in south Texas, as well as appraisal activities 
in the Utica Shale formation in Ohio. We publicly report on 
our shale energy operations, including drilling, development 
and production, and the efforts we take to manage the 
inherent risks associated with the business. We recognize 
stakeholders’ concerns about the impact shale energy 
operations have on safety, the environment and public health. We continue to develop and implement processes to  
identify and address the environmental and social risks of 
our shale energy business. During the past few years, we 
have completed one or more high level risk assessments 
using our enterprise risk methodology at each of our shale 
oil and gas assets. In 2012 risk assessment workshops were 
held at our North Dakota, Texas and Ohio assets. In early 
2013 an enterprise risk workshop was held to update the 
shale energy business unit’s high level risk assessment. 
Further, we continue to identify and address stakeholder 
concerns that may risk our license to operate. Risk 
assessments of our shale energy operations in North  
Dakota and the ensuing plans to manage local stakeholder 
expectations and concerns, such as flaring, truck traffic  
and land use, helped us establish similar plans at other  
Hess shale energy assets. 
Hydraulic Fracturing: Bakken Example
1) In the Bakken, an average Hess well is more than 10,000 feet deep. The underground formation is separated from the deepest fresh water 
aquifer by many thousands of feet of overlying rock. 2) Wells are lined with multiple layers of steel pipe and encased in cement to depths well 
below the aquifer, preventing fluids or gas from seeping from the well into the groundwater. Dedicated tubing, referred to as a frac string, is 
used during hydraulic fracturing as an additional groundwater protection measure. 3) A mixture of water, sand and special purpose additives 
are pumped under high pressure into the underground formation to create fractures. The fractures are propped open by the sand, allowing oil 
to flow into the well.
Water + Sand  
+ AdditivesFracture
Surface 
CasingCement
Frac StringFresh
Water 
AquiferConductor 
Casing
Production
Casing1
2 3
Drawing is not to 
scale and numbers 
are approximate17   
 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTManagement Practices 
Our shale energy development preparations include detailed, 
operations-focused risk assessments and risk mitigation 
planning, environmental and social impact assessments and 
management plans as appropriate, stakeholder identification 
and engagement, and regulatory reviews. We also conduct 
contractor screening, selection, onboarding and training and 
emergency response planning, drills and training. 
We formed an Above Ground Risk Steering Team in 2012  
to identify potential non-technical risks related to shale 
energy operations, including those driven by social and environmental factors. The team developed key risk 
mitigation strategies to address environmental, health  
and safety, social, contractor and other commercial  
issues related to our license to operate. 
The team has taken the lead in developing guidelines  
that define expected operating practices to manage key 
above ground risks in areas including the environment, 
workforce and public health, safety, social impact and 
commercial and partnership risks. We expect these  
operating practices will be finalized and implemented  
in 2013. Examples of 2012 management practices are 
summarized in the table below. 
Management Practices
Topic Practice
Water Quality 
Monitoring  Conduct baseline surface water and groundwater quality monitoring of domestic water wells  
within a minimum 2,500-foot radius of each well site.*
  Conduct water quality analyses in accordance with state regulations and FracFocus Chemical 
Disclosure Registry guidance, and for any known local contaminants.
Fresh Water Use Identify fresh water substitutes for hydraulic fracturing and well maintenance.
  Follow internal fracturing (frac) fluid water quality and reuse guidelines.
  Publish individual well data for frac water use on the FracFocus website.
Chemical Use Encourage efficient use of functional, cost effective chemical additives in frac fluids.
  Encourage suppliers to use the least toxic chemical formulations available, develop less toxic 
additives and disclose chemical ingredients.
  Publish frac fluid chemical composition and quantities on the FracFocus website. 
Groundwater 
Protection Use well designs that ensure casing and cementing isolate fresh water zones. 
  Use closed-loop fluid containment systems for drilling fluids and frac fluid flowback.
  Dispose of drill cuttings onsite in a lined impoundment or offsite at authorized third party facilities.
  Develop and maintain spill prevention plans for all facilities and implement spill prevention and 
mitigation measures.
Air Emissions  Update and install emissions controls on tank batteries such as vapor recovery units, combusters 
and high efficiency flares.
  Implement gas gathering projects, third party commercial arrangements and natural gas capture  
at the wellhead to monetize natural gas and reduce flaring.
  Green completions include containment of frac fluid flowback and natural gas emissions controls.
Land Use   Build multi-well pads where possible to minimize land use and leverage operational efficiencies.
  Encourage baseline assessments for population, archaeological, biological and environmental 
impacts to be conducted in accordance with internal guidelines.
Contractor 
Management  Undertake systematic pre-qualification, selection, engagement, monitoring and post contract 
review of Hess contractors.
  Apply formal, consistent and auditable standards for contractor management that include  
health, safety, environment and social responsibility.
Community 
Engagement  Host open houses for leaseholders and public meetings for members of the community.
  Meet routinely with community members and leaders where the company has an  
established presence.
  Collaborate with community partners and state officials to ensure adequate infrastructure funding, 
with a specific focus on roads, to improve traffic safety and support road maintenance.
*The exception to this practice is in North Dakota, where the state operates an established network of groundwater monitoring wells.18   
 HOW WE OPERATEBakken Hydraulic Fracturing Water Intensity per Well 
Thousand Gallonsbecause we made fewer truck trips and had shorter 
pumping times and lower pumping rates. 
Our Exploration and Production Technology (EPT) 
organization includes subject matter experts who focus on 
optimizing cost-effective water and chemical use in oil and 
gas operations and recommend technology applications to 
minimize the environmental impact of hydraulic fracturing.  
In 2012 EPT issued frac fluid water quality and reuse 
guidelines and conducted pilot studies to find non-potable 
water sources suitable for fresh water substitution. While 
work is ongoing, frac fluid returns are generally very low, 
ranging from 5 percent in Utica wells to 20 percent in 
Bakken wells one to two weeks after the frac job is finished. 
In the Bakken, EPT efforts resulted in an approximate 75 
percent reduction in the cost of an additive used in frac 
fluids. This additive can be used at a lower dosage and is 
more environmentally favorable than the one previously 
used. Pilot tests are ongoing to evaluate non-chemical 
biological treatment of frac fluids. Other efforts included 
formulation and field implementation of a custom Performance
In 2012 our ongoing efforts to improve operations and  
our investments in infrastructure in the North Dakota 
Bakken formation resulted in better resource efficiency  
and safety performance. 
Water and Chemical Use
Unconventional production presents resource challenges 
given the need for large volumes of fresh, locally sourced 
water used to extract hydrocarbons. We seek to minimize 
the use of fresh water for hydraulic fracturing and analyze 
water sources, including fresh water, saline water, 
wastewater and frac fluid flowback, to assess their suitability 
for hydraulic fracturing. Hydraulic fracturing accounted  
for about 14 percent of the company’s total fresh water 
consumption in 2012, of which our Bakken wells accounted 
for 98 percent.
In 2012, our efforts to reduce costs for our North  
Dakota drilling and completions led to more efficient  
use of water and chemicals for hydraulic fracturing. 
Midway through 2012 we reduced the resource intensity 
and costs of hydraulic fracturing in the Bakken through 
technological advances in our well completions design.  
As a result, we decreased the average volume  
of fresh water used for each hydraulic fracturing job  
by approximately 35 percent.
The decrease in water use reduced our need for other frac 
fluid components, including propping agents and chemical 
additives. We also saw fuel efficiency gains per frac job 
10,000
8,000
6,000
4,000
2,000
0
Q1 2012 Q2 2012 Q3 2012 Q4 2012 Q1 20138,8979,093
6,549
5,8245,556
Energy Production, Utica Shale, Ohio
19   
 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTManagement of Hydraulic Fracturing Fluid Flowbackbiodegradable surfactant and completion of a field 
evaluation and economic assessment of a solid proppant-
based scale inhibitor.
Groundwater Protection 
Well integrity is crucial to contain drilling fluids, frac fluids 
and produced oil, gas and water. To protect groundwater, 
our wells are lined with multiple layers of steel pipe and 
encased in cement to depths well below the deepest fresh 
water zones. This approach isolates fresh water from fluids 
or gas in the well that could impact the groundwater. 
In 2012 Hess used real-time microseismic monitoring of 
selected hydraulic fracturing jobs. This technology allows  
us to map fractures in the rock to confirm that we remain 
within the targeted formation and pose no risk to local 
groundwater or nearby wells.
Air Emissions
Hess aims to continue reducing flaring and greenhouse gas 
emissions across our operations as discussed in the Climate 
Change and Energy section of this report. Our primary 
sources of air emissions are fuel combustion and flaring. 
Historically, our North Dakota production operations have 
had the lowest flaring rate for conventional wells in the 
industry. We have achieved this with a flaring rate of less 
than 0.5 percent by consistently expanding the infrastructure 
necessary to gather and commercialize natural gas 
associated with oil production. However, in North Dakota the rapid growth of our shale 
energy business resulted in an 87 percent year-over-year 
increase in oil production from the Bakken formation and 
flaring of associated gas. In the short term, flaring remains a 
significant challenge. The company has acquired a number 
of sites that are remote. For now, these sites lack the 
infrastructure to implement gas gathering. To address the 
issue, we continue to build the necessary infrastructure to 
mitigate long term flaring rates. 
We are investing more than $1.2 billion to capture and 
monetize natural gas from our shale energy wells, building 
gas gathering systems and expanding capacity at our Tioga 
Gas Processing Plant. We also spent more than $50 million 
in 2009 and 2010 to construct a new gas gathering system 
and extend the Red Sky natural gas pipeline to interconnect 
with a third party gas processing plant. We plan to complete 
four major gas gathering projects by 2014. We expect to 
add as much as 60 million standard cubic feet per day 
(MMscf/d) of capacity. In addition, we expect to complete 
our Tioga Gas Plant expansion in late 2013, increasing its 
capacity to  250 MMscf/d. 
To mitigate flaring, we are exploring long term and short  
term options for natural gas capture at the wellhead and 
accessing third party infrastructure and gas processing 
capacity through contracts and trading agreements. We are 
engaging with two of our three drilling contractors to convert 
some drilling rigs to dual fuel (natural gas and diesel) to allow 
Gas gathering system
WellheadGas
Solids
Disposal at state or federally regulated facilitiesFlare
Additional 
treatment/StorageOilSolids
Separator
Oil/Water
Separator
Flowback
Water20   
 HOW WE OPERATEuse of natural gas at the well site and to achieve cost 
savings. Other mitigation measures include piloting third 
party services at the well site to capture, compress and 
transport stranded gas and light liquids. We have also 
formed a team of subject matter experts to study best 
practices for reducing flaring and monetizing stranded gas.
We report on GHG emissions for our U.S. production assets  
in accordance with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 
(EPA) Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule. We estimate 
that in 2012 fugitive methane emissions from North Dakota 
and Eagle Ford, Texas production operations were about 91 
tonnes and 19 tonnes respectively, based on EPA-mandated 
emissions factors and the number and types of piping 
components and pneumatic devices in natural gas service.
At our Bakken assets we employ dedicated crews and 
equipment to separate solids, liquids (water and oil) and  
gas in frac fluid flowback. The flowback is separated in a 
closed system. To avoid venting of methane, natural gas is 
contained and flared or sent to a gas gathering system if 
available. The closed loop system helps safeguard the 
containment of the liquids and solids.
The oil and gas industry and the state of North Dakota have 
worked together to establish methodologies that may be 
used to estimate vapor control emissions from storage 
tanks, wells and central facilities and identify acceptable 
control technologies. Hess has executed an Administrative 
Consent Agreement with the North Dakota Department of 
Health to resolve potential air pollution control law violations 
relating to our oil and gas production operations in North 
Dakota. The Administrative Consent Agreement requires 
Hess to retrofit some existing facilities and to pay a penalty 
of $418,500.
Land Use 
Our approach is to minimize land use and reduce the 
number of well sites needed to develop our acreage. During 
2012 we began to move from held by production drilling 
(drilling a single well per pad to uphold the lease) to multi-
well pad drilling where as many as six wells are clustered  
on a single well pad and share surface facilities. We plan  
to continue this transition in 2013. To minimize the impact on the environment and streamline 
permitting, we introduced a geographic information systems 
(GIS) tool for use during our Utica Shale appraisal activities 
in Ohio. The tool incorporates environmental and social 
baseline data as GIS layers and is used to identify sensitive 
areas and select well pad locations.
Contractor Management
We work with contractors and industry partners to  
improve overall safety performance in North Dakota.  
Our company undertakes systematic pre-qualification, 
selection, engagement, monitoring and post contract  
review of contractors to ensure they meet our expectations 
for management of environment, health and safety. When  
a contractor does not fully meet our criteria, management 
approval and risk mitigation plans must be in place before 
work can proceed. In 2012 engagements between Hess  
and key contractors continued to reinforce the importance 
of contractor environment, health, safety and social 
performance to our business. More information on 
contractor management and safety performance can be 
found in the Safety section of this report.
Communities
We recognize that the rapid and concentrated development 
of shale energy operations can create unintended issues 
and social impacts. To better identify and understand local 
stakeholder concerns and their causes in the communities 
where we operate, we completed a social baseline at our 
Utica Shale asset in 2012 and intend to undertake one in 
North Dakota in 2013. 
During the year we also laid the groundwork to pilot the 
IPIECA grievance mechanism in 2013. After the pilot is 
complete we will develop Hess-wide guidance on grievance 
mechanisms. The Community and Social Performance 
section of this report contains detailed information on our 
social investments and social and human rights risk 
management for our shale energy assets.21   
 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTWe approach community investments strategically and 
continue to strengthen our focus on management systems 
for social opportunities and risks. In 2012 we conducted a 
workshop for our social responsibility practitioners in Asia 
Pacific to share experience and best practices in that region. 
A workshop for the Europe, Middle East and Africa region 
took place in early 2013. At our assets, staff members have 
received training in stakeholder engagement, social risk 
identification and management, strategic social investment 
and Hess voluntary commitments. Effective management of 
social responsibility positively affects our performance by 
increasing external stakeholder support and reinforcing the 
Hess culture internally.
In 2012 we began to update our Corporate Social 
Responsibility (CSR) and Human Rights policies. We also 
developed a new Security and Human Rights Policy, which 
was launched in early 2013. These documents detail our 
commitments, through every phase of our business activity, 
to employees and the communities where we operate.  
They also set expectations for employees and contractors. 
Looking ahead, we are exploring ways to more firmly align 
our business practices with our CSR Policy, Human Rights 
Policy and Security and Human Rights Policy. For example, COMMUNITY AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE
Social responsibility is a core 
value at Hess and fundamental 
to how we operate our business. 
We are committed to creating long 
lasting, sustainable relationships by 
engaging with and managing the 
impact we have on communities 
where we operate. Succeed 2020 Program, North Dakotabefore Hess commences exploration activities in a country, 
our risk analysis now includes social responsibility and 
human rights as clear business risks that must be  
assessed. We recognize the need to rigorously manage 
social responsibility expectations in our relationships with 
suppliers and contractors and will continue to address this 
area as our internal programs evolve. We are starting to 
incorporate social responsibility awareness when we 
onboard new contractors.
We strive to support the efforts of communities to  
improve their socioeconomic and environmental conditions. 
By building local capacity, we are able to contribute to 
sustainable development. To this end, we pursue support of 
various educational, vocational and economic development 
initiatives, which we will discuss in this section of the report. 
SOCIAL INVESTMENTS OVERVIEW
We recognize that strategic social investment enhances 
community and stakeholder engagement. It is central to 
advancing our goal to have a measurable, positive social 
impact in the communities where we operate. Education  
and health are key focus areas. Companies like ours rely on a 
well-educated workforce, and we recognize education and 
health are fundamental to sustainable economic development 
and building transparent and democratic societies.
Hess works with communities where we operate to identify 
social impacts, contribute to economic development and 
support efforts that build long term value for residents and 
for Hess. Our investments in social projects are meant to improve quality of life, especially for those who live and work 
near our operations. 
In Thailand we conducted a comprehensive evaluation of our 
multiyear social investment program during 2012, examining 
the types and amounts of investments that were made since 
work began there in 2005, and analyzing the measurable 
outcomes of those efforts. The study, which incorporated 
input from stakeholders, suggested ways to enhance several 
ongoing projects and strengthen stakeholder relationships.  
These recommendations included promoting knowledge 
sharing from past and ongoing projects within the local 
communities, maintaining a monitoring program to encourage 
dialogue with the communities, and continuing to identify the 
right strategic partners for each project. The study also 
identified the need for better communication around our 
social investments and emphasized the importance of 
appropriate human and financial resources to ensure the 
sustainability of social investment programs. We plan to 
incorporate the general findings from Thailand into our 
management of social investments across our portfolio.
In 2012 our social investment and in-kind contributions 
totaled $40 million. More than $18 million of our investment 
went toward education projects in communities where we 
operate. We invested nearly $9 million in community  
projects aimed at economic development, health and 
capacity building. We also invested approximately $3.5 
million for in-kind donations of products, primarily Hess Toy 
Trucks donated to Toys for Tots® and other social service 
agencies during the holiday season and in the aftermath of 
Superstorm Sandy in the New York City Metropolitan Area.
0 10,000 20,000 30,000 40,000Type of Investment
$ ThousandSocial Investment by Country 
$ Thousand
 Education $18,570
 Community  $8,763
 Disaster Relief $5,013
 In-Kind $3,491 Arts & Culture $1,944
 Health $1,712
 Environment $88 U.S. $20,630
  Equatorial Guinea $6,381
 Malaysia $5,151
 Peru $3,862
 Russia $1,323
 Libya $525
 Indonesia $455
 St. Lucia $306
 Ghana $219
 All Others $72952%13%10%3%
16%1% 2%
2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 23   MAJOR INITIATIVES
Succeed 2020
We continued our support of education in North Dakota, 
where we have been a major producer of oil and gas for  
60 years. Succeed 2020, a five year, $25 million program, 
assists students as they prepare for college, careers and  
the workplace, beginning in the middle school grades.  
The statewide program supports college and career 
counseling for students, professional development for 
teachers, distance learning to expand access to career  
and technical education, tutoring and other approaches  
that address specific regional objectives. This far-reaching 
program is an investment in the future of North Dakota 
communities and the sustainability of the workforce there.
We have already committed $5 million to support planning 
and implementation activities within each of the eight Regional 
Education Associations (REAs) in North Dakota. Through our non-profit partner, FHI 360, the initiative has enabled REAs  
to hire staff to manage the program, coordinate stakeholder 
involvement and monitor progress. Implementation of new 
educational programs such as enhanced teacher training  
and development of business partnerships will begin in 
several parts of the state during 2013. More information is 
available at NDSucceed2020.org.
PRODEGE
Our flagship social responsibility project in Equatorial Guinea 
(EG) is PRODEGE (Programa de Desarrollo Educativo de 
Guinea Ecuatorial). Phase 1 of this initiative, completed in 
2012, resulted in significant improvements in primary 
education, establishing model classrooms for active learning 
in 54 schools nationwide and providing teacher training and 
certification opportunities for nearly 1,000 primary school 
teachers. Along with our non-profit partner, FHI 360, a global 
leader in educational development, PRODEGE has 
contributed to the ability of the country’s Ministry of 
GHANA
Education Program 
Hess partners with the Ghana National Petroleum 
Corporation, the national oil company of Ghana, and 
Montrose, a third party international development services 
company, to annually provide scholarships to promising 
students, with a particular emphasis on education for girls 
and women. Young people from three school districts in 
western Ghana are eligible for the awards. Criteria for 
selection include a quantitative assessment score, 
recommendations from the community, financial need 
and gender. The scholarship covers the cost of tuition, 
fees, textbooks and uniforms at specific vocational and 
nursing schools that have been selected to participate. 
As long as a scholarship recipient maintains high 
achievement, the scholarship continues for the 
duration of the student’s academic program, either 
two or three years. Representatives from the 
Scholars’ Program staff monitor the educational 
offerings at the schools and follow the students’ 
progress to optimize the effectiveness of grants.This initiative was created as a result of a baseline 
needs assessment conducted by Hess in 2011 with 
input from stakeholder groups. During its first funded 
year, the Scholars’ Program supported 71 Ghanaian 
students, among them 35 females.
Hess-sponsored Scholarship Program, Ghana24   
 COMMUNITY AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCEEducation to collect and analyze data on student 
achievement and teacher capacity and to develop effective 
education strategies.
Phase 2 will build on these successes, using the practical 
experience gained from the first five years of the initiative. 
Hess has committed an additional $25 million for the period 2013 through 2017. The Government of EG is also providing 
$25 million. Phase 2 will focus on improving the quality of 
secondary education through teacher training and the 
development of instructional materials. The program will also 
continue to build management capacity at the Ministry of 
Education. Some resources will be dedicated to sustaining 
UNITED STATES
Superstorm Sandy 
Relief Efforts
In the aftermath of Superstorm 
Sandy, the severe storm that swept 
through the New York metropolitan 
area in October 2012, Hess 
Corporation donated $5 million for 
recovery efforts. The funds were 
split evenly between the Mayor’s 
Fund to Advance New York City 
and the Hurricane Sandy New 
Jersey Relief Fund. Employees also 
had the opportunity to donate to 
these two organizations, with Hess 
matching their contributions. Our 
gifts included approximately 50,000 
Hess Toy Trucks that were donated 
to children in families affected by 
the storm.KURDISTAN REGION OF IRAQ
Supporting Local 
Traditions
Stakeholder relationships have been 
especially important in our ability  
to identify and develop community 
projects in Kurdistan. Hess 
cooperated with local government 
officials to select opportunities 
where we could help improve public 
access to scenic spaces and picnic 
facilities. We are constructing 75 
tables with bench seating, as well  
as 15 waste bin structures at three 
sites in our Dinarta license area. 
These improvements will allow many 
families to enjoy the outdoors while 
pursuing a popular local tradition of 
picnicking. The local governments 
have committed to regular waste 
pickups at the sites.COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
Promoting 
Biodiversity
Bioko Island, off the coast of 
Equatorial Guinea, is home to 
diverse species of wildlife, including 
the endangered leatherback sea 
turtle and drill monkey. Hess 
invested $75,000 during 2012 to 
support a variety of wildlife 
conservation projects conducted 
through an academic partnership 
with Drexel University in 
Philadelphia and the National 
University of Equatorial Guinea in 
Malabo. The multi-faceted program 
provides educational materials for 
children, collects data on turtle 
nesting sites and trains residents to 
monitor and protect the turtles 
during nesting season.
2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 25   LIBYA
IMC Nurse Training
Following a civil war that began  
in 2011, Libya experienced a 
shortage of medical supplies  
and skilled medical professionals, 
especially nurses. Hess is supporting 
International Medical Corps as it 
increases the number of Libyan 
nurses and enhances the quality of 
training and professional standards. 
Hess contributed $500,000 in  
2012 and has committed another  
$1 million for 2013.THAILAND
Fuel from Biogas
We fund a project in three small 
Thai villages to obtain biogas from 
livestock manure. The gas is used 
as cooking fuel. The Thai 
government piloted the project  
and in 2012 Hess supported its 
expansion to provide biogas to 42 
families. The initiative reduces fuel 
costs, improves environmental 
conditions by better managing 
animal waste and involves close 
cooperation with villagers in 
program planning and execution.INDONESIA
Apprenticeship Program
In 2012 we continued to support an 
apprenticeship program at our 
Indonesia assets. The curriculum  
and instruction were provided by Hess 
operations and human resources  
staff. We offered a six-month training 
program for recent university 
graduates so they could gain valuable 
skills through on-the-job assignments, 
supplemented by classroom learning 
and mentoring. The 2012-2013 class 
included 15 apprentices. key achievements of Phase 1 and ensuring that children 
enter school ready to learn. The program plan states that by 
2017 the Ministry of Education will sustain PRODEGE 
through the in-house capacity and expertise developed 
through the program.
SOCIAL RISK
We recognize that a responsible business must manage its 
impact on people, the environment and financial performance. 
For the global oil and gas industry, above ground risks such as 
stakeholder opposition, environmental concerns and safety 
issues can contribute to delaying large capital projects.During 2012 we examined in detail these risks and the 
opportunities they offered at eight Hess projects. Our  
aim was to assess financial value erosion associated  
with non-technical risk. These efforts showed the value  
of continuing to integrate social risk management into our 
corporate enterprise risk processes, while also highlighting 
the benefit of maintaining a good corporate reputation and 
strong stakeholder relationships.
Major Hess operations are required to map stakeholders and 
develop an engagement plan. We also encourage each of 
our sites to develop, maintain and implement a strategic 
social investment program to help address the management 
of these risks and opportunities. 
COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES
26   
 COMMUNITY AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCEIn 2012 we conducted a high level risk assessment in North 
Dakota and an environmental and social impact assessment 
for our Utica Shale project in Ohio, including a high level 
quantitative analysis of several risk factors. These included 
screening for potential risks associated with cultural heritage 
sites and artifacts.
HUMAN RIGHTS
While it is governments’ responsibility to protect human 
rights, companies like Hess must act with care and respect 
for the human rights of all citizens wherever they operate.  
The Hess Values and our Code of Business Conduct and 
Ethics (Code of Conduct) provide a foundation for our 
commitments to ethical and responsible business practices. 
We revised our Code of Conduct in 2012 to include specific 
reference to human rights. 
As discussed earlier in this report, we began updating the 
Hess Human Rights and CSR policies in 2012. The new 
Security and Human Rights Policy, approved in early  
2013, established our commitment to engage security 
providers in a manner that is consistent with the Voluntary 
Principles on Security and Human Rights. We have also 
drafted human rights-related contract clauses for high  
level investment agreements with the goal of eventually 
incorporating this language consistently into future 
agreements. Similar language is already being incorporated 
into supplier contracts.
Our strategy is to prevent human rights-related incidents by 
engaging with the community to proactively address potential 
issues. We operate in complex environments that can be 
politically and physically challenging. This presents us with  
an opportunity to make positive and lasting contributions in 
areas of governance, transparency, respect for rule of law 
and social and economic development. To that end, we have 
initiated a process to establish formal mechanisms for 
reporting grievances at each of our operations. We drafted  
a guidance document to help users develop their own 
site-specific mechanism and will begin a pilot grievance 
mechanism program in 2013, in partnership with IPIECA, at 
one of our North American assets. We plan to incorporate lessons learned from that pilot into the business plans of  
all Hess assets.
There were no instances of involuntary resettlement  
during 2012.
Voluntary Initiatives
Hess has endorsed or formally joined a number of 
international voluntary initiatives that pledge to promote 
human rights, protect the environment and encourage 
financial transparency:
  United Nations Global Compact  is a strategic policy 
initiative for businesses committed to aligning their 
operations and strategies with 10 principles in the areas  
of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption.
  Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights   
is a multi-stakeholder initiative involving governments, 
companies and non-governmental organizations that 
promotes implementation of a set of principles that guide 
oil, gas, and mining companies on providing security for 
their operations while respecting human rights.
  Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative  is an  
effort to strengthen implementation of the principles to  
increase transparency of payments and revenues in  
the extractive sector.
  United Nations Declaration on Human Rights  was 
issued by the United Nations in 1948 and represents the 
first global expression of rights to which all human beings 
are inherently entitled.
  International Labor Organization Declaration on 
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work  is an 
expression of commitment by governments and employers’ 
and workers’ organizations to uphold basic human values.
We are active in IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry 
association for environmental and social issues. We  
served in a leadership role as co-chair of IPIECA’s Voluntary 
Principles task force in 2012 and in 2013 we will assume  
the role of co-chair of the Social Responsibility Working 
Group. In addition, we engage within our industry and 
2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 27   Corporate Social Responsibility Workshop, Jakarta, Indonesiaacross other business sectors on CSR matters and business 
and human rights policy and implementation.
Risk Assessments
Prior to pursuing project opportunities in new countries,  
or substantially expanding operations into a new region, 
Hess undertakes a review and analysis process called New 
Country Entry to examine both technical and non-technical 
risks. In 2012 we updated the New Country Entry process 
and incorporated security and human rights issues more 
formally into the analysis. We also contracted with an 
independent global risk analysis consultant to commission 
country risk reports that include an examination of security 
and human rights issues at assets in our current portfolio,  
as well as for prospective areas of interest.
In potential high-risk areas Hess commissions third party 
human rights risk assessments. Conducted on the ground, 
these assessments identify risks to Hess projects and staff, 
as well as to the surrounding communities. A third party 
human rights risk assessment is currently underway for  
our operations in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq. Previous 
assessments have been completed in Thailand, Indonesia, 
Malaysia, Algeria and EG.
Training and Awareness
We educate our employees on the importance of respecting 
human rights and are committed to raising internal 
awareness of the Voluntary Principles and other voluntary 
initiatives. We have developed an online training module for 
all employees that explains human rights and why they are 
important to our business. The training course reviews the 
company’s Human Rights Policy, offers employees guidance 
on integrating respect for human rights into their daily work 
and provides direction on how to report suspected human 
rights violations. We are implementing a phased rollout of 
the online module in 2013. Every new employee will be 
required to review the module within 90 days of hire.
In 2012 we established an intranet site focused on all of our 
voluntary commitments, with links to the relevant policies 
and Code of Conduct. We plan to expand the site with 
additional reference materials, presentations and guidance 
during the coming year. CSR staff made presentations and held formal discussions 
on human rights and Hess’ voluntary commitments at 
several global locations during 2012, including Australia, 
Indonesia, EG and the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, as well  
as our U.S. offices in Houston, Woodbridge, N.J. and  
New York City. We participated in the Voluntary Principles 
December 2012 workshop in Jakarta, Indonesia, which 
provided guidance and tools for implementing the principles 
as part of our regular business practices. Hess staff who 
attended the December 2012 workshop shared the 
information with those on the Indonesia staff who could  
not attend.
Security
The Code of Conduct prohibits the use of military or  
police personnel services except where required by local 
authorities or in cases of emergency. We contract for 
security services from private contractors in those areas 
where such services are required. Our operations contract 
for these services locally with support from our global 
security and global supply chain functions.
We expect security providers to adhere to applicable 
international law enforcement principles, humanitarian law 
and human rights law. Hess introduced new contract 
28   
 COMMUNITY AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCEclauses in 2011 covering security and human rights 
expectations to its upstream business. The new contract 
clauses require our security contractors to communicate our 
human rights, social responsibility and ethical expectations 
to their employees and subcontractors, as well as 
demonstrate compliance. The aim is to ensure delivery of  
a consistent message of performance expectations for 
security contractors and drive consistency across Hess’ 
operations. In 2013 we plan to work together with our global 
supply chain colleagues to review our progress and identify 
measures for implementation and assurance in this area.In the event of a security incident with human rights 
implications, a report is made to the head of global security. 
Reports are also issued for those occurrences that highlight 
potential future risk such as peaceful community protests. 
We are not aware of any human rights violations in 2012. 
Labor Practices
Hess is committed to diversity and equal employment 
opportunities for all employees and job candidates regardless 
of race, color, gender, age, sexual orientation, creed, national 
origin or disability. We do not tolerate any form of workplace 
harassment, including sexual harassment. We reinforce these 
expectations through our Code of Conduct, Human Rights 
and Corporate Social Responsibility Policies.
The company has not identified significant risk in our global 
workforce for child labor, forced or compulsory labor, or 
violations of the right to freely associate and bargain 
collectively. We do not permit the employment of underage 
children or the use of forced labor in our global workforce. 
This is also enforced in our contract language on labor 
practices. We recognize and respect our employees’ rights 
to join associations and engage in collective bargaining in a 
manner that is consistent with applicable laws, rules, 
regulations and local customs. 
Freedom of Association
When commissioning country risk reports from our third 
party vendors, risks associated with labor rights, including 
freedom of association and collective bargaining, are 
included and reviewed.
Hess employs unionized and non-represented workers  
in hourly job classifications. In 2012 approximately 6  
percent of employees were represented by 19 collective 
bargaining agreements. 
For major operational changes, such as layoffs and facility 
closures, we comply with advance notification requirements 
specified in collective bargaining agreements and labor 
regulations. These notices are typically 60 to 90 days for 
locations with 50 or more employees and 14 to 28 days  
for locations with fewer than 50 employees.Country Manager Toolkit on 
Security and Human Rights 
The creation of our Country Manager Toolkit on 
Security and Human Rights was a major 
advancement in 2012. The Toolkit guides the field-
level implementation of the Voluntary Principles. Given 
the nature of the oil and gas industry and the broad 
range of locations and cultures in which we operate, 
we recognized the need for specific guidance to help 
our employees address challenging situations 
regarding security and human rights. 
The Toolkit covers key topics, including stakeholder 
mapping and engagement, risk assessments and 
relations with public and private security. It includes 
tools and templates for employees to use in 
identifying and tracking potential security and human 
rights risks. Specific guidelines cover how to interact 
with public sector and private security providers. The 
Toolkit also includes a section devoted to managing 
transfers of equipment and supplies when interacting 
with either public or private security providers, to 
minimize security and human rights risks.
We will pilot the Toolkit during 2013 in a broad, 
multidisciplinary process that includes each of the key 
functions that contribute to effective implementation 
of the Voluntary Principles.
2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 29   Hess strives for safe and 
incident free operations for 
the safety and wellbeing of our 
workforce, the environment and 
the communities where we do 
business. This goal is fundamental 
to our company’s culture and 
integral to our strategy, values and 
business decisions. We believe no 
task is so important that we cannot 
do it safely.The inherent hazards in the activities of the oil and gas 
industry, ranging from the operation of drill rigs to the 
management of all our facilities and transportation are 
routinely identified, assessed and managed. Systematically 
managing these risks is essential to safe operations. 
We have developed a comprehensive set of Hess Rules for 
our employees and contractors. The Hess Rules focus on 
control of seven high fatality risk activities associated with 
our industry. The Hess Rules are mandatory. Everyone 
associated with the Hess organization is expected to 
comply, regardless of the type or location of his or her work.
Our approach to management of health and safety risks 
extends beyond activities under our operational control to 
our supply chain and partnerships. We seek to ensure that 
our partners’ safety and health systems and programs align 
with ours. We insist on transparency from our partners and 
we undertake appropriate reviews to ensure commitments 
are being met. 
We monitor a range of leading and lagging safety and health 
metrics across the enterprise, consistent with available 
industry guidance and standards. These metrics are regularly 
reported to the appropriate levels of management within the SAFETY AND HEALTH
Stena Forth Drillship, Gulf of Mexicoorganization. Locally, leading safety and health metrics are 
tailored to address the challenges presented by our diverse 
lines of business and their operating environments.
To gauge our performance against industry peers we 
conduct periodic formal benchmarking exercises. We learn 
from others’ best practices and share our best practices 
with members of our industry. We strive for continuous 
improvement of performance while acknowledging areas 
that pose challenges.
We know that an engaged and informed workforce is 
essential to safer work environments. Workforce safety 
committees at Hess play a lead role in ongoing site safety 
culture improvements at operating and office locations. The 
composition of each safety committee varies by location and 
type of operation, but typically includes managers, salaried 
and hourly employees including those represented by 
collective bargaining agreements, contractors and safety 
professionals. Committee responsibilities typically include 
developing site safety goals, identifying and prioritizing safety 
activities and reviewing safety issues, incidents, near misses 
and related investigations.
SAFETY LEADERSHIP
At Hess leaders at all levels drive our safety culture, working 
under the philosophy of “no harm now or ever.” During  
2012 we further strengthened our safety culture across all 
business levels.Hess is working with third party subject matter experts to 
develop an Executive Safety Leadership Program to further 
embrace safety, engage and energize the organization and 
make improvements that are visible companywide. During 
2012 a group of 23 senior leaders participated in a safety 
leadership reflection and planning exercise. We have 
increased discussion of safety leadership among members 
of our management team and can now develop effective 
goals for the future.
We expect every employee and contractor to be a safety 
leader. In our Exploration and Production (E&P) business  
we are taking steps to improve safety performance by 
implementing a peer-to-peer behavior-based program in  
our North Dakota and West Texas operations. Workers  
are trained to observe each other on the job and provide 
feedback regarding “safe” and “at risk” behaviors. 
In 2011 we implemented a North Dakota Safety Improvement 
Program in response to an increase in safety incidents.  
In 2012 we reevaluated and advanced our North Dakota 
contractor management program. By increasing leadership 
presence in the field, contractor engagement and targeted 
process improvements, we achieved a 36 percent 
improvement in our North Dakota workforce (employee and 
contractor) Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) in 2012. 
With a strong presence in the shale energy business, we are 
working with contractors and industry partners to improve 
overall safety performance in North Dakota.
Workforce Safety Performance 
Cases per 200,000 HoursWorkforce Hours (Employees and Contractors)
Million Manhours
 Workforce TRIR
 Workforce LT/RD Workforce LTIR
 TRIR Target (Workforce) U.S. North Dakota 20.5
 U.S. Retail 14.4
 U.S. E&P Headquarters 3.8
 U.S. Other 8.5
 Equatorial Guinea 3.0
 Indonesia 2.7
 Denmark 2.3
 Malaysia & Thailand 1.9
 U.K. 1.3
 Algeria 1.1
 Australia 1.1
 International Remainder 2.52010
0.68
0.37
0.18
2011
0.72
0.36
0.17
2012
0.60
0.31
0.220.6332%
23% 6%5%4%4%4%
3%
13%2%31   
 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPERSONAL SAFETY
Tragically, we suffered two fatalities during 2012. A male 
contractor working at our Eagle Ford asset in Texas died 
during rig move operations and a female employee working 
at a retail store in Carlisle, Pa., was shot and killed during a 
robbery. These events remind us that we must continuously 
strive to maintain a safe working environment for everyone  
at Hess. 
The following personal safety metrics, as defined by the  
U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), 
are tracked by each of our operations and reported at the 
corporate level: TRIR, Lost Time/Restricted Duty Incident 
Rate (LT/RD), Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) and fatalities  
(all rates are per 200,000 hours*). In addition, local assets 
track first aid cases, near misses and unsafe acts in support 
of their local programs and continuous improvement. 
Our TRIR of 0.63 was a 13 percent year-on-year 
improvement. However, we fell just short of achieving our 
annual safety target for the total workforce (employees  
and contractors). This improvement demonstrated the 
effectiveness of measures put in place in 2011 to address  a decline in contractor safety performance, and continuous 
improvement in our Retail Marketing business. 
Our 2012 TRIR, the company’s best since we began tracking 
workforce data in 2004, was achieved at a time when total 
workforce hours increased 19 percent, mainly in our shale 
energy business. The U.S. shale energy business, which 
tends to have higher incident rates, now accounts for 32 
percent of our total workforce hours and continues to grow. 
In 2012 we improved the employee component of our total 
workforce safety by nearly 30 percent, surpassing our 2011 
record for best companywide TRIR. The safety performance 
of our contractors improved by 4 percent in 2012, even 
though contractor hours increased 31 percent during the 
same time period due primarily to the continued growth of 
our U.S. shale energy business.
During 2012 our E&P business undertook a “Serious Injury 
and Fatality” study. The study helped identify underlying 
factors associated with the most serious incidents we have 
experienced and enabled us to focus our programs and 
resources on reducing their likelihood.
CONTRACTOR MANAGEMENT
Contractors comprise 60 percent of the company’s total 
workforce and 81 percent of the workforce in our E&P 
business. As a result we maintain a particular focus on 
contractor management.
Employee and Contractor Safety Performance
Cases per 200,000 Hours
 Contractor TRIR      Employee TRIR
2010
0.50
0.81
2011
0.73
0.71
2012
0.70
0.50
Seminole Gas Processing Plant, Texas* When calculating LTIR, scheduled work days are used. A lost time 
incident involves one or more days away from work, excluding the day of 
the incident. Absenteeism and Occupational Disease Rate are not 
primary metrics for Hess, and are therefore not tracked.32   
 SAFETY AND HEALTHIn recent years the company established a contractor 
management program to address the fundamentals of 
contractor prequalification, selection, monitoring and review, 
with an emphasis on those contractors in our business who 
are engaged in activities with the highest risk potential.
During prequalification, we engage recognized industry 
prequalification organizations when they are available, 
particularly in the U.S. and the U.K. Where recognized industry 
prequalification organizations are not available, we use 
in-house prequalification processes, including a full review of 
safety programs, safety performance and regulatory track 
record. Subsequently we select contractors following a thorough assessment and verification of bid submissions,  
with evaluation outcomes integrated into overall bid selection 
criteria alongside commercial and technical assessments.
In response to declining contractor safety performance 
within our North American shale energy business,  
we further strengthened our program. Our four-step  
contractor Onboarding and Engagement Program was  
fully executed, ensuring: 
1) Expectations are clearly defined and understood 
2)  The person in charge and communication routes are  
clearly identified 
NORTH DAKOTA
Land Transportation
The National Institute for Occupational Safety and 
Health reported in December 2012 that the rate of 
motor vehicle deaths in the oil and gas industry is 
nearly 8.5 times greater than most other industries. 
The leading causes of vehicle crashes are driver 
fatigue and failure to adopt safe practices, such as 
maintaining speeds appropriate to conditions and 
consistently wearing seat belts. 
Our North America shale energy business typically 
requires frequent trips to remote well sites. Between 
2010 and 2012 the number of vehicle miles driven in 
this sector of our business increased 273 percent to 
6.8 million miles. The business continues to expand. 
As a result, since we began our efforts to intensify  
our focus on land transport safety, no Hess employee 
or contractor has been involved in a serious traffic 
incident. This record is encouraging in light of the 
rapid increase in vehicle miles driven, which have 
risen more than 30 percent since 2010, and the 
industry record of fatalities on roads in the oil counties 
of North Dakota.
In 2007 Hess adopted the International Association 
of Oil & Gas Producers (OGP) 365: Land 
Transportation Safety Recommended Practice as  the basis for our land transportation safety standard. 
We apply industry best practices for drivers of our 
company-owned vehicles through developed driver 
management systems. Hess has 424 vehicles in 
North Dakota with in-vehicle monitors. We monitor 
and track driver behavior and vehicle speed to 
identify unsafe behavior and inform discussions 
aimed to promote corrective behavior. 
All employees and direct contractors who drive on 
company business must take a proactive driving 
course that includes an hour-long driving assessment. 
During the past three years we have trained 870 
employees. In addition, we collaborate with the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the North 
Dakota State Patrol and the North Dakota Petroleum 
Council to continuously improve the driving practices 
of our contractors.
A full time Journey Management Coordinator has 
been assigned to enhance the program. Journey 
Management Plans are well organized and required 
for all trips considered moderate or high risk. Drivers 
are required to enter their trip details into a computer-
based Journey Management Board. The Operations 
Control Center in Tioga monitors the Board 24/7 and 
contacts the supervisor of any overdue employees. 
Discussions are held routinely to challenge the need 
for trips and to assess road risk in adverse weather.33   
 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT3)  Job-related hazards and risks are assessed and 
communicated 
4)  Contractor performance is monitored and reviewed while 
work is performed 
A senior leader contractor engagement program was developed 
and tracked through 2012. For our contractors whose workers 
engage in the highest risk activities, the program connects our 
senior leaders with theirs on managing the key risks associated 
with these operations.
PROCESS SAFETY
Like our industry peers we continue to focus on and 
strengthen our approach to process safety. Hess uses the 
American Petroleum Institute (API) and OGP guidance 
definition of process safety: “A disciplined framework for 
managing the integrity of hazardous operating systems and 
processes by applying good design principles, engineering 
and operating and maintenance practices.” In practice this 
means we employ:
  Design integrity – ensuring that we design and build our 
facilities so that the risks are as low as reasonably practical 
   Technical integrity – inspecting, testing and maintaining  
our hardware
  Operational integrity – ensuring that we work within the 
operational design parameters
  Process safety leadership – ensuring that our leaders are 
equipped to manage the risk of catastrophic eventsIn early 2011 Hess launched an Operational Excellence Action 
Project whose aim was to evaluate and reduce the risk of 
catastrophic events at E&P and Marketing and Refining (M&R) 
locations worldwide. The project established a clear vision for 
the company based on practices seen downstream in the 
petrochemicals industry. It is our vision that process safety is 
an essential element of the organization’s culture and 
considered in every business decision.
THAILAND
Sinphuhorm Incident 
A process safety event early in 2012 at the 
Sinphuhorm Gas Processing Plant in northeastern 
Thailand involved the inadvertent release of gas 
emissions from the plant’s thermal oxidizer. Soon  
after the event a two-day evaluation workshop was 
initiated at which five generic root causes for the 
incident were identified:
  Inadequate plant expertise
  Potentially improper operations becoming routine
  Equipment operability
  Work management
  Safety culture 
Soon after the incident, but before the findings  
from the workshop could be implemented, an 
explosion occurred at the plant. It destroyed a piece 
of equipment called a boil-off tank. There were no 
injuries associated with either event.
However, the explosion caused the plant to shut 
down and disrupted the local natural gas supply 
during Songkran, a major Thai holiday celebrating  
the new year. We responded immediately to the 
incident, engaged extensively with members of the 
community and worked swiftly and safely to resume 
operations at the plant. Following plant start-up we 
also promptly investigated and alleviated community 
concerns that followed reports of odors from the 
plant. A subsequent evaluation of the event validated 
that the five generic root causes initially identified also 
caused the explosion. Those causes have become 
the focus of preventative planning going forward. 2012 Process Safety Events
Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec(2) (2)(4)(6) (6)
(5)
(4)(5) (5) Tier 1     Tier 234   
 SAFETY AND HEALTHWe ramped up our process safety preparedness efforts  
in 2012 with the implementation of a focused process 
safety program across the enterprise. This program 
addresses three strategic elements: improving process 
safety leadership; strengthening process safety 
governance, support and assurance; and deepening 
engagement and reinforcing accountability. The program 
contains four action areas to strengthen process safety 
over the next two years: 
  Process safety governance and support structures –  
We have expanded our professional process safety staff 
resources and formed an enterprise-wide work group to 
develop and deliver improvements to process safety 
management systems and practices. In 2013 we will 
establish a steering team comprised of senior leaders who 
will provide high level guidance and visibility to the program, 
which will be led by a vice president of Process Safety.
  Process safety Global Standards to define minimum 
expectations – Plans are in place to develop enterprise-
wide standards for process safety during 2013. The 
standards will draw on industry best practice. 
  Process safety – We began an assessment of each 
facility’s process safety management and introduced  
Hess Indicators for Process Safety (HIPS). Our audit  
and assurance mechanisms will be revised in 2013 to  
integrate process safety more explicitly.
  Process safety accountabilities and responsibilities –  
Plans are in place in 2013 to deliver process safety 
awareness training for plant personnel and a cross-section 
of leaders at the middle and senior levels. 
As noted earlier, in 2012 we implemented process safety 
metrics monitoring and reporting companywide in accordance 
with API and OGP guidance. The Hess Indicators for Process 
Safety (HIPS) focus on loss of primary containment events that 
meet agreed industry criteria for Tier 1 (greater consequence) 
or Tier 2 (lesser consequence) process safety events. There 
have been 12 Tier 1 and 27 Tier 2 process safety events since 
we began HIPS reporting in April 2012. A review of these 
events identified the need to continuously improve the quality 
and effectiveness of our process safety incident investigations, maximize what we learn from these events and improve our 
process safety performance. 
In 2013 we will focus on how we can better identify causal 
factors and develop appropriate corrective actions to prevent 
reoccurrence of process safety events. We will also review our 
use of leading process safety metrics and align fully with 
industry guidance for leading Tier 3 and Tier 4 metrics, which 
track challenges to safety systems and weaknesses in facility 
specific processes and systems.
EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS AND 
RESPONSE
In the event of unanticipated disruptions, our obligations 
include the protection of human life, property and the 
environment. To meet these obligations in all our regions of 
operation and at all our operations, each region has its own 
Emergency Response Network that spans four operational 
levels – local, geographic, regional and corporate. Each level 
is comprised of personnel trained in their roles and 
responsibilities for incident response and mitigation.
Emergency Response Exercise, North Dakota35   
 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTCrisis and emergency management plans are in place and 
routinely exercised across the enterprise to ensure a 
systematic and effective approach during any incident.  
These plans cover everything from oil spills and well control 
to business continuity and restoration. 
We routinely participate in emergency exercises and drills and 
engage in local emergency management efforts. Lessons we 
learn from real incidents, exercises and industry events are 
routinely incorporated into our plans. 
We maintain strong relationships with mutual aid and 
emergency response organizations at local, regional and 
global levels. Hess is a member of several spill response 
and well control cooperative organizations, including Oil 
Spill Response Limited, Marine Well Containment Company, 
Subsea Well Response Project, Oil Spill Prevention and 
Response Advisory Group and Clean Gulf Associates. 
Strategic relationships are also maintained with contractors 
who provide tools, systems and personnel to Hess for 
emergency preparedness and response activities.CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S AWARD FOR  
SAFETY EXCELLENCE
The Chief Executive Officer’s Award for Safety Excellence 
provides senior leaders with opportunities to reinforce the 
connection between safety and the success of our business. 
Nominations are accepted for Hess team and joint venture 
achievements that demonstrate outstanding and sustainable 
safety performance results with a wide reaching impact on  
the organization.
Annual awards are presented to the operation that has been 
most effective in improving and sustaining its safety culture and 
performance. The E&P and M&R presidents present additional 
awards for safety excellence within their respective businesses. 
In 2012 we introduced a Special Recognition category to 
engage and recognize achievements in our local businesses.
GLOBAL SAFETY 
APPRECIATION DAY
Our annual Global Safety 
Appreciation Day gives  
senior leaders an additional 
opportunity to engage with  
the workforce, reinforce the 
importance of safety to our business, reflect on progress and 
successes and describe the path to continued improvement. 
Hess employees and contractors at more than 100 locations 
observe Global Safety Appreciation Day with a variety of 
meetings and activities. The event includes a video broadcast 
safety message from the members of the Hess Leadership 
Team focusing on global improvement priorities. In 2012 
corporate leaders and their workforce peers presented safety 
tips with an emphasis on risk assessment and management, 
process safety, contractor safety management, Hess Rules, 
assurance and lessons-learned, as well as the application of 
the “Plan, Do, Check and Adjust” framework. 
HEALTH AND WELLNESS
We continue to promote employee health, encouraging a 
balanced and productive lifestyle at work and at home 
through the implementation of our unified health and 
Okume Complex, Equatorial Guinea36   
 SAFETY AND HEALTHwellness strategy. We have adopted eight elements of  
health management consistent with OGP and IPIECA health 
performance indicators, which are also used by many of our 
industry peers. These elements include health risk planning 
and impact assessments, control of workplace exposures, 
management of medical emergencies and ill-health in the 
workplace, fitness for task assessments, health reporting 
and record management, public health interfacing and 
promoting good health. 
Our company is proactive in identifying health needs and 
priorities at Hess locations around the world. We ensure  
our employees are protected from potential health hazards 
associated with work operations, travel and other job-related 
activities. We continue to enhance our fitness-for-work 
programs and routinely perform pre-placement assessments 
to confirm that our employees’ health is compatible with 
their work assignments.
In the U.S. a variety of health management resources and tools 
focused on cardiovascular health, musculoskeletal disease, 
mental health and chronic disease management were offered 
to our employees to help them meet their personal health and 
wellness objectives. These objectives may involve exercise, 
diet and nutrition, weight control, stress management, tobacco 
cessation and chronic disease management. 
Employee resilience is the cornerstone of our future 
approach to health and wellness. Decreased health risks 
and improvements in employee health lead to improved 
mental focus, morale and productivity, as well as decreased 
injuries, illness, disability and lost work. As we continue to 
focus on establishing a culture of health, we will introduce 
additional metrics around the impact of our efforts in each 
of these areas.
To evaluate our performance, health metrics are tracked 
monthly and data are compared over the prior 13 months to 
identify trends. Among others, these metrics include hearing 
conservation measurements and fitness-for-duty exams.  
They are evaluated regionally and for the entire U.S. Data for 
the U.K. and other regions will be incorporated and tracked  
in 2013.Our current focus areas include the prevention of hearing loss 
for our workers, raising awareness of workers in our shale 
energy business regarding exposures to silica dust, and 
protecting the health of workers who may be exposed to a 
variety of illnesses and diseases. 
Our industry operations span various geographies including 
developing countries. Hess takes steps to protect the  
health of its workers who may be exposed to diseases 
common in the developing world and to regionally prevalent 
illnesses. Employees and contractors are provided with 
education on health topics impacting the regions where we 
operate, including information about malaria, HIV, tuberculosis 
and blood-borne pathogens. 
Prior to international travel all employees are counseled on 
specific regional health risks within the destination country and 
vaccinations are reviewed and provided when appropriate. 
Additionally, expatriates and their family members at locations 
around the world have access to counseling focusing on a 
variety of topics including: health improvement, mental health, 
parenting, aging and caring for parents.Health Screening, Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area
37   
 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTHess’ success relies on a company culture and high quality 
workforce that continues to innovate, lead and learn. In 
2012 we examined the Hess culture, our environment  
for innovation, attracting and retaining talent, diversity  
and inclusion and our methods to promote learning, 
development and leadership. With this process we aim  
to improve the way we manage our talented workforce  
in support of our business objectives.
EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS
As of December 31, 2012 Hess employed more than  
13,200 people (excluding Hetco front office and Russia 
operations), an increase of approximately 2 percent over 
2011. Ninety percent of our employees worked in  
the U.S. and more than two thirds worked in our retail 
operations. In 2012, 23 percent of our employees were  
part time and 61 percent were hourly employees. 
To understand employee dynamics in the context of our 
future business needs, we assess various statistics that 
describe the composition of our workforce. We hired 723 
people in 2012. The voluntary turnover rate for the Hess 
workforce (excluding retail hourly employees) was 6.8 Through Talent Management 
we are able to take a broad 
view of the entire workforce 
cycle: talent recruitment, new 
employee orientation, workforce 
development and retention, 
leadership development and 
succession planning. GLOBAL WORKFORCE
Hess Learning Center, Houston, Texaspercent in 2012. Voluntary turnover rates were lower among 
women and employees under 30 and over 50 years of age. 
Fewer than 1 percent of employees at operated assets were 
laid off in 2012 because their positions were eliminated. 
During the first quarter of 2013, we closed our Port Reading, 
N.J. refining facility and announced our intention to focus 
exclusively on Exploration and Production (E&P) and exit the 
downstream businesses, including Energy Marketing and 
Retail Marketing operations. This business focus will require 
substantive changes to our existing workforce during the 
coming months. DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
Hess continues to develop, retain and advance a diverse 
workforce based on traditional measures of diversity (e.g., 
gender, ethnicity), as well as aspects of diversity that go 
beyond traditional categories. Our definition of diversity 
includes cultural and physical differences, as well as  
diversity of background, experience and perspective. 
Gender diversity and ethnic background metrics for our 
employees were similar to those in the prior year. Forty 
percent of our employees are female. Our U.S. employee 
base is 38 percent minority according to the U.S. 
Department of Labor definition. Adding to our diverse mix  
Global Employees
13,277 Employees
 U.S. Retail 8,205
 U.S. Non-Retail* 3,691
 Asia Pacific 694
 Europe 427
 Africa 257
 Other (<1%) 3
Excludes Hetco front office and Russia operations
*Includes St. Lucia (112)
Excludes retail hourly employeesTurnover and New Hires (Number of Employees)
Africa
32
1413
Americas
390
355 162 1159
Asia-Pacific
47
86 3619
Europe
43
46 2311 Male Turnover  Male New Hires
 Female Turnover  Female New Hires
 Male New Hires
 Female New Hires62%5%3%
28%2% <1%
Women and Minority Representation
WOMEN (U.S. AND INTERNATIONAL) MINORITIES (U.S.)
Job CategoryTotal 
Employees in 
Job CategoryNumber  
of WomenPercent  
WomenTotal 
Employees in 
Job CategoryNumber of 
MinoritiesPercent 
Minorities
Executives and  
senior officers88 10 11% 79 5 6%
First and mid-level 
managers2,272 702 31% 1,946 477 25%
Professionals 2,268 777 34% 1,561 420 27%
Other 8,649 3,835 44% 8,310 3,616 44%
Total 13,277 5,324 40% 11,896 4,518 38%
Note: There are 1,854 U.S. employees who are both minority and female.39   
 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTof employees, 46 percent of new hires in the U.S. were 
women or minorities. The age distribution of our workforce 
is similar to prior years, though the average age of our 
employees increased slightly from last year. In 2012 four 
women were appointed to Hess executive positions — 
Chief Compliance Officer, Vice President Corporate Social 
Responsibility, Vice President Environment, Health, Safety 
and Social Responsibility (EHS&SR) and Chief Information 
Officer, Exploration and Production, increasing the 
proportion of female executives by 4 percent. For our 
non-U.S. workforce, we emphasize diversity by hiring and 
developing skilled local nationals as part of the Hess 
workforce and local leadership.
Workforce Localization
In keeping with our aim to foster diversity and cultivate 
leadership, we employ a high number of local nationals  
in our operations around the world. As in all areas of our 
business, our Global Talent Acquisition group hires local 
workers with exceptional professional qualifications and  
who are aligned with the Hess culture and values. 
Ten percent of the Hess workforce was located outside  
the U.S. in 2012. Two percent of our employees were in 
Africa, 3 percent were in Europe and 5 percent were at 
Asian locations. 
In Equatorial Guinea 70 percent of our employees and  
35 percent of our managers and professionals are local 
nationals. In Malaysia 65 percent of our employees and 63 percent of managers and professionals are local nationals. In 
Indonesia 97 percent of our employees and 95 percent of 
managers and professionals are local nationals.
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
Over the course of 2012 work teams assessed the Hess 
culture and helped define the value proposition that Hess 
offers employees. 
We conducted a baseline culture survey of our organization. 
More than 400 randomly selected employees from around the 
world participated in an online survey and approximately 200 
employees participated in small group discussions. We learned 
that central elements of our culture are strong, including pride 
in our integrity and social responsibility and confidence that 
leaders exemplify the Hess Values. Employees suggested that 
more could be done to improve process efficiency, such as 
making changes to the organization structure. They also would 
like to see more non-monetary recognition.
In a related effort, 1,200 employees participated in an 
information gathering survey on Hess’ culture that focused on 
innovation. Two hundred “Best Practice” innovation companies 
were benchmarked and Hess’ innovation culture was 
compared. Following analysis, recommendations were made 
for changes in leadership behaviors and workplace culture 
aimed at promoting innovation and value creation at Hess.
Another internal survey of current and prospective 
employees showed that career opportunities, compensation 
National Employees
% of Managers and ProfessionalsNational and Non-National Employees*
% of Country Workforce
  Malaysia      Indonesia      Equatorial Guinea   Professional/  
Managerial Nationals  Other  
Nationals  Non-Nationals
201082
66
3489
68
3395
63
35
2011 2012060120
Malaysia
Indonesia
Equatorial Guinea59% 6% 35%
61% 36% 3%
16% 54% 30%
*In significant areas of operation (>100 employees)40   
 GLOBAL WORKFORCEand work-life flexibility were the key selling points for working 
at Hess. We will continue to enhance these attributes while 
ensuring fairness, quality and empowerment across our 
global workforce. 
VOLUNTEERISM 
Through our intranet, Hess Connect, employees can learn 
about social responsibility engagement and volunteer 
opportunities in their area. The wide range of employee 
volunteer opportunities across the company includes 
company-sponsored, as well as employee-driven projects.
For example, our Houston-based employees support Target 
Hunger, a United Way agency that promotes self-sufficiency 
for those in need through deliveries of groceries, holiday food 
boxes and gifts for children. Staff from our Perth office in 
Australia joined coastal care volunteer groups for a clean-up 
project on Kwinana beach. In the aftermath of Superstorm 
Sandy, Hess employees from our New York and Woodbridge, 
N.J. locations in the U.S. worked together with Partnership 
with Parks to restore park areas after flooding and organized 
a food and supplies drive for victims most severely impacted.
COMPENSATION
Hess rewards its employees for their contributions to our 
company’s current and future performance. In addition to 
base pay, Hess compensation includes a wide range of 
benefits, including bonus and incentive plans. To gauge  
the competitiveness and fairness of our compensation,  
we benchmark Hess against industry peers. 
So that we can be among the top quartile of employers 
when comparing our entry level wages to local wage 
minimums, we measure this differential at locations where 
we employ 100 or more. In the U.S., as well as at our 
international operations in Europe, Southeast Asia and 
Equatorial Guinea, we pay more than local prevailing  
industry minimum wage. Hess pays retail hourly employees 
24 percent more than the minimum wage, on average.
The wages, benefits and bonuses of our represented 
employees are determined by collective bargaining 
agreements. For further information on our union-represented employees, see the Freedom of Association 
section in the Community and Social Performance  
section of this report.
BENEFITS
Hess provides comprehensive, high quality health and 
retirement benefits that supplement or enhance the 
coverage that is offered by government programs. In 
addition to wages, our financial benefits include pension, 
savings, life insurance and bonus and incentive programs. 
Health benefits include medical, dental, vision, prescription 
drug and various employee assistance plans. Employee 
benefit packages vary by country.
In the U.S., the company is adding or increasing benefits. In the 
past year, for example, we added domestic partner benefits, 
increased medical plan options and increased the company’s 
match against employee contributions to 401(k) plans. In China 
we added a pension plan, and in the U.K. we enhanced our 
pension offerings to help offset recent tax changes.
Hess benefits and programs for non-hourly retail employees 
exceed the industry standard. In addition to full medical 
coverage, non-hourly retail employees can participate in  
the company’s savings plan, a benefit also available to full 
time retail hourly employees. Hess’ separate benefits plan  
for full time retail hourly employees includes medical and  
life insurance coverage and paid vacation time. Hess offers  
retail employees a pension plan, a benefit that is not 
commonly provided in the retail industry. Retail employees 
are eligible to receive education assistance for courses 
related to their development. 
To align employees’ interests with investors and provide 
another opportunity to participate in the company’s success, 
Hess offers a long term incentive program to employees who 
demonstrate exemplary leadership and contribute 
significantly to the business.
Salaried employees participate in the company’s cash  
bonus plan and the company offers financial assistance to 
employees who wish to pursue educational coursework. In 
2012 the company contributed more than $1.5 million for 
outside educational assistance.41   
 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTTALENT MANAGEMENT
In 2012 the company continued to forge a connection 
between our Talent Management and Learning and 
Development processes.
Hess engages in an annual talent management process  
to understand and assess our leadership and technical 
capabilities and develop succession and hiring plans.
Performance Management
Hess employees are responsible for managing their own 
performance and career paths. Individual responsibility is  
a foundational value in our approach to performance 
management. The company provides many tools, programs 
and opportunities to support employees as they strive to 
reach their goals.With guidance from their managers, employees create  
their individual development plans. Hess provides  
mentoring, training, online courses and other educational 
assistance so that employees can develop their potential 
and leadership capabilities in alignment with the company’s 
business objectives.
Through the Hess Performance Management process, an 
employee’s performance is evaluated against goals and 
expectations and leadership behaviors. These factor into an 
overall performance rating, which impacts an employee’s 
salary and bonus.
Learning and Development
In 2012 we aligned the content of our development courses 
more directly with our long term objectives and our 
leadership model. Our employees used the tools introduced 
in 2011 to more effectively manage their ongoing education 
and development. 
Our classroom training programs and online Hess Learning 
Center provide an important supplement to employee 
development that takes place on the job and through 
coaching and mentoring relationships. Our employees have 
access to Hess global online resources to develop 
professional, leadership and technical skills. 
At Hess we have a suite of four leadership development 
programs, each tailored to the needs of a particular level of 
leadership in the organization, from early-career supervisors 
through senior leadership. Program content reflects the 
competencies needed to achieve our vision and the skills 
necessary to develop as a leader and to contribute 
effectively to our company’s success. 
New Employees
Employees new to Hess are benefiting from the 
improvements we made to onboarding and orientation 
processes during 2011. In 2012 more than 700 new 
employees worldwide participated in our online Passport  
to Hess program. In addition to our offices in Houston, 
Woodbridge, N.J., New York, North Dakota, London and 
Kuala Lumpur in 2012, the Passport to Hess program was 
rolled out in Copenhagen, Beijing, Jakarta and Perth. As  Recruiting Veterans
Our Global Talent Acquisition strategy is focused  
on hiring people whose values align with our own  
and whose skills and experience match Hess’  
talent needs. In 2012 we expanded the portion of  
our Talent Management program that reaches out  
to the military and recruiting veterans.
We participate in an American Petroleum Institute  
led group called Veterans to Energy that maps talent 
and experience from the military to the energy sector. 
Hess also participates in a national veteran hiring 
program called “Joining Forces,” which connects 
service members to careers and supports their 
transition to civilian life. We were recognized for our 
efforts by Brad Cooper, Executive Director of Joining 
Forces, Office of the First Lady, during a White 
House-sponsored “Joining Forces” event. 
Veterans working at Hess have organized the Hess 
Veterans’ Group to enhance our outreach and 
integration efforts. The group is sponsored by our 
General Counsel. In our recruitment efforts, we work 
with military recruiters, attend military-sponsored  
jobs fairs and publicize our interest in hiring  
military personnel.42   
 GLOBAL WORKFORCEof the end of the year, 100 percent of the respondents were 
either extremely satisfied or satisfied with the Passport to 
Hess Welcome Day. 
The Passport to Hess site provides information about the 
company and Hess Values, as well as links to The Learning 
Center and The Resource Center. The Learning and 
Resource centers are critical portals for managing one’s 
career development path. The Hess catalogue of online 
courses is available through the Passport to Hess site.
The onboarding program for new hires also establishes a 
system for supervisors and new employees to work closely 
together for the first 90 days at Hess and to make sure the 
integration process goes as smoothly as possible. New Hess 
employees may also be eligible to join the supplemental 
early career development programs we offer.
Early Career Programs
Our Global Professional Development Program (GPDP),  
first piloted in 2011, was implemented across the 
organization in 2012. College graduates newly hired at  
Hess were introduced to the first stages of this two year 
early career integration program. The program accelerates 
performance and career development by introducing basic 
professional skills such as business writing, presentation 
techniques, goal setting and time management. The basic 
curriculum is tailored to regional locations so employees can 
adapt to the needs of the country and business environment 
in which they are launching their careers. 
For our newly hired technical personnel, it is especially 
important to continually hone skills. The oil and gas  
industry is evolving rapidly, with innovative techniques and 
technologies creating competitive advantage for businesses 
across the world. The Hess Global Foundation Program is 
designed to help our graduate engineers and geoscientists 
keep pace with this rapid evolution through training, 
mentorship and on-the-job assignments so they are fully 
prepared for challenging assignments early in their careers. 
Training
Training programs are an important component of the Talent 
Management process at Hess. We spent more than $14 million on classroom courses and 24/7 online learning and 
development. The total amount spent on training programs 
decreased 12 percent from the previous year primarily 
because certain targeted programs and system upgrade 
processes were completed in 2011. 
We currently offer more than 1,000 e-courses that align  
with Hess operations and business priorities. We tailor  
many courses for employees located outside the U.S. 
Through our independent third party verification process,  
we estimate that our non-retail employees spent at least  
25 hours in training and courses during 2012. 
Data from the Hess Learning Center shows that more  
than 3,500 non-retail employees completed more than 
10,000 online courses in 2012, a 96 percent increase over 
2011. This data demonstrates increased utilization of 
learning resources and course completions. 
Global Professional Development Program Session, Houston, Texas43   
 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTHess continues to help meet 
the world’s increasing 
demand for energy while we 
manage our carbon footprint  
and energy use. This commitment 
underpins our seven-point 
strategy that addresses the 
challenges and opportunities 
presented by climate change.Hess monitors, measures and takes steps to reduce our 
carbon footprint at existing and planned operations. We 
have been executing a five year (2009-2013) climate change 
strategy and are in the process of developing a policy to 
provide internal clarity on our climate change framework, 
demonstrate comprehensive climate change management 
and increase transparency. This policy, when adopted, will 
guide operational and project planning efforts to manage  
our carbon footprint. 
We recognize the need for cooperation between U.S. and 
world leaders and industry to develop comprehensive energy 
solutions that will meet future energy demand and reduce 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. These solutions include 
increased use of cleaner burning natural gas, commercial 
scale carbon neutral technologies and demand reduction 
measures such as energy efficiency initiatives. 
Carbon price signals may also encourage more efficient  
use of hydrocarbons. In the U.S., we support a transparent, 
flexible, equitable and reasonable approach to reducing 
carbon emissions that will not impede the domestic 
economic recovery. CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGYTioga Rail System, North DakotaSTRATEGY AND GOALS
In 2009 the Hess Leadership Team (HLT) approved a five 
year corporate climate change strategy for 2009 through 
2013. Key elements of the strategy address GHG emissions 
intensity, flaring, energy efficiency, carbon accounting and 
products and services to help customers become more 
carbon efficient. A synopsis of the progress we have made  
in executing our climate change strategy is summarized in 
the table below. 
While we are on track in most areas, a transformation of Hess 
is underway. This impacts our ability to achieve our GHG 
emissions intensity reduction target (equity basis) of  
20 percent below the 2008 baseline by the end of 2013. 
Through 2010 we reduced our equity basis GHG emissions 
intensity by 14 percent. However, we have subsequently exited 
petroleum refining with the closings of the HOVENSA joint 
venture refinery in January 2012 and the Port Reading refining 
facility in February 2013. In addition, we have announced the 
planned divestiture of our other downstream businesses. The higher carbon intensity of exploration and production 
operations, combined with reduced production and 
throughput from asset sales and facility closures, mean  
that our normalized target is no longer achievable. However, 
between 2008 and 2012, our absolute GHG emissions 
(equity basis) have decreased 26 percent (2.8 million 
tonnes). We expect GHG emissions (equity basis) will be 
three to four million tonnes lower in 2013 than in 2008 
because of a combination of improved operating processes 
and discontinued operations. 
In 2012 we began incorporating carbon footprinting tools 
and energy efficiency best practices into our capital 
evaluation for new upstream investment decisions valued 
greater than $50 million to promote carbon efficient 
equipment selection. The cost of carbon is included in base 
project economics in carbon-regulated areas. In all other 
areas, the cost of carbon is included in project economics  
as a sensitivity analysis. Workshops to educate project 
engineers were held in Houston, London and Kuala Lumpur 
and were taught by subject matter experts.
Climate Change Strategy and Progress
Strategy Progress
Establish and publicly communicate a five year GHG 
emissions intensity reduction target.Due to the restructuring of Hess into a pure play 
Exploration and Production (E&P) company, our target 
of 20 percent reduction in emissions intensity by 2013 is 
no longer achievable. However, since 2008 we reduced 
absolute GHG emissions (equity basis) by 26 percent  
(2.8 million tonnes) through 2012.
Account for the cost of carbon in all significant future 
investment decisions.We incorporated carbon cost considerations into the E&P 
project planning process for major investments and held 
training workshops for project engineers.
Evaluate industry best practices to minimize emissions 
when designing production facilities.We incorporated energy efficiency considerations into the 
E&P project planning process for major investments and 
held training workshops for project engineers.
Reduce flaring in Algeria and Equatorial Guinea by 50 
percent over five years (by end of 2013 compared to  
2008 baseline).We continued to review flare reduction options while 
having already reduced combined flaring in Algeria and 
Equatorial Guinea by 61 percent through 2012.
Implement a corporate wide energy efficiency program.We implemented monthly collection of energy use and 
spend data at our assets to identify opportunities to 
reduce energy consumption and costs and to begin 
establishing a baseline.
Purchase at least 10 percent of annual electricity  
for company operations from renewable sources.We purchased renewable energy certificates equivalent to 
15 percent of our 2012 net electricity use.
Offer Hess Energy Marketing customers products and 
services to help them minimize their carbon footprint.Hess Energy Solutions expanded its integrated commodity 
contract offerings, incorporating energy efficiency, 
renewable energy and fuel conversion services.45   
 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTDuring the year we began building an energy management 
system to track energy use throughout the corporation. This 
new system helps us identify opportunities to reduce energy 
use and flaring. In 2013 we will continue to collect energy 
use data with the goal of evaluating energy efficiency 
improvement opportunities and establishing an energy 
baseline and targets for 2014 and beyond.
Another element of our strategy is increasing the use of 
renewable energy through the purchase of renewable energy 
certificates (RECs) equivalent to 10 percent of net electricity 
used for company operations. We have exceeded this target 
for the past three years. In addition, our Marketing and 
Refining (M&R) business installed a 1.1 megawatt solar 
photovoltaic system at its Woodbridge, N.J. headquarters to 
provide more than 20 percent of its electricity needs. Since 
2010 we have also achieved carbon neutral status for 
employee business travel on commercial air carriers through 
the purchase of carbon offsets.
In 2013 and through early 2014 we will update our climate 
change strategy and objectives for the next five year cycle 
(2014-2019). We will continue to emphasize best practices 
for flare reduction and energy efficiency. To accomplish this 
objective we will also continue to assess opportunities to 
improve our emissions performance.GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE
The HLT oversees the climate change strategy and its 
execution by the Hess Climate Change Network (CCN). The 
CCN reports to the company’s Operational Excellence Pillar 
Team, which is led by the President of E&P and includes 
senior leaders from our upstream and downstream business 
segments, as well as corporate Environment, Health, Safety 
and Social Responsibility, Global Process Excellence and 
Information Technology functions. 
We established four CCN work groups to develop, update 
and execute the company’s climate change strategy. The 
Climate Policy Work Group monitors policy developments, 
assesses their impact on our operations and coordinates 
strategy development across the four work groups. The 
Energy Efficiency and Flaring/Venting Work Groups focus on 
the technical and operational factors of carbon footprint 
evaluation and reduction. The Carbon Markets Work Group 
provides guidance on forward pricing for project economics 
and carbon monetization opportunities.
GREENHOUSE GAS PERFORMANCE
We report our GHG emissions on an operated and net equity 
basis. The majority of our direct (Scope 1) emissions are 
associated with fuel combustion and flaring. We report indirect 
emissions associated with purchased electricity (Scope 2) and 
Operated Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Million Tonnes CO2e
 Scope 1 Emissions     Scope 2 Emissions (gross)
2010
3.68 0.78
2011
20124.34 0.74
4.97 0.76
0 2 4 6 8Operated Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Source
Thousand Tonnes CO2e
 Flaring 2,433
 Fuel Combustion 2,300
 Indirect 760
 Other 23842%13%4%
40%46   
 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGYother indirect emissions (Scope 3), resulting from employee 
business travel and the transport and use of our products. 
Hess Operated Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2)
In 2012, of the 5.7 million tonnes of gross GHG emissions 
from operated assets, 5.0 million tonnes were Scope 1 
emissions, primarily from flaring and fuel combustion, and  
0.8 million tonnes were Scope 2 emissions from purchased 
electricity. Process operations (primarily fuel combustion), 
flaring and indirect emissions (purchased electricity) 
accounted for 44 percent, 43 percent and 13 percent of 
GHG emissions respectively.
Greenhouse gas emissions from operated assets increased 
0.7 million tonnes, primarily as a result of an increase in 
flaring emissions due to the rapid expansion of our 
operations in the North Dakota Bakken formation. Based  
on North Dakota Industrial Commission data, we have 
historically had some of the lowest gas flaring rates in the 
industry. However, our flaring rates in the Bakken region 
currently exceed the 2012 industry average of 32 percent. 
While we decreased our flaring in the Bakken from 2009 to 
2010 by bringing additional gas gathering infrastructure 
online, our flaring subsequently increased from 2011 to 2012, 
following the acquisition of acreage in remote areas with 
insufficient existing gas gathering infrastructure. These new 
acquisitions accounted for 56 percent of our Bakken flaring 
at year end 2012. At operated assets, flaring rates in the Bakken formation have stabilized between 2011 and 2012 
and we expect flaring to decrease substantially in the next 
few years as we continue to invest in flare reduction projects.
We are investing more than $1.2 billion to improve  
gas gathering infrastructure, monetize gas recovery and  
minimize gas flaring. These investments include the planned 
completion of four gas gathering projects by 2014. Other 
mitigation measures utilized in 2012 included daily review of 
Net Equity Greenhouse Gas Emissions Net Equity Emissions by Country
Thousand Tonnes CO2e
* Other countries:  
Denmark 1.8%  
Azerbaijan 1.3%  
Norway 1.2%  
Libya 1.0%50
45
40
35
30
25
2009 2008 2010 2011 2012024681012
8.09.1 9.0
44
39
38439.510.8GHG (Million Tonnes CO 2e)
Emissions Rate (Tonnes/1000 BOE) Hess M&R
 Hess E&P
  Malaysia/  
Thailand U.S. 3,159
 Malaysia/Thailand 1,986
 Equatorial Guinea 952
 Russia 454 Other Countries* 419
 U.S.V.I. 332
 Algeria 243
 U.K. 21050
45
40
35
30
25
2009 2008 2010 2011 2012024681012
8.09.1 9.0
44
39
38439.510.8
   U.S. Virgin Islands 
(U.S.V.I.)
 Normalized GHG Algeria
 Non-operated E&P
 Russia
0         1 mil         2 mil         3 mil         4 mil         5 mil         6 mil         7 mil         8 mil         9 mil5% 40% 25% 12%6%5%4% 3%3%
Tioga Gas Processing Plant Expansion, North Dakota47   
 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTrates and pressures to optimize the steam to oil ratio, a 
measure of efficiency. We also piloted third party services  
to compress natural gas for transport. These mitigation 
measures continue in 2013, along with pilot testing methods 
for natural gas liquids collection at the well site and plans for 
conversion of some of our contracted drill rigs to dual fuel 
(natural gas as well as diesel). 
Based on our current production and emissions forecast,  
we anticipate further absolute reductions in GHG emissions 
reflecting these flaring reduction initiatives in North Dakota 
and the closure of our Port Reading, N.J. refining facility. In 
addition to our projects in the Bakken, we have ongoing flare 
reduction initiatives in Algeria and Equatorial Guinea (EG).  
We continue to look for ways to reduce fuel consumption  
and improve our operational efficiency through these and 
other energy efficiency initiatives.
Hess Net Equity Emissions (Scope 1 & Scope 2) 
Since 2007 we have tracked GHG emissions from our 
non-operated locations based on our equity interest in  
each asset. Tracking emissions on a net equity basis is  
more difficult than on an operated basis, but it provides a 
more accurate overall picture of our carbon footprint.
Our major sources of emissions from non-operated assets in 
2012 included the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area 
(JDA) and SonaHess (Algeria) joint ventures and our equity interests in Samara-Nafta, Russia and Pailin field, Thailand. 
Combined, these assets accounted for approximately three 
million of our eight million tonnes of net equity emissions. 
Operated sources included our operations in EG and North 
Dakota, the Port Reading refining facility and the Seminole 
and Tioga gas plants, which together accounted for 3.2 
million tonnes of net equity emissions. Our year-over-year net 
equity emissions decreased by more than one million tonnes 
CO2e, primarily due to the closure of the HOVENSA joint 
venture refinery in early 2012. 
Scope 3 Product Use Emissions
The majority of our Scope 3 emissions are associated with 
customer and consumer use of our fuel and other products. 
Although no standard methodology has been adopted  
within our industry to report these types of emissions, we 
have followed the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency  
(EPA) approach.
Our methodology for calculating product use emissions 
addresses the products that we refine and sell, as well  
as natural gas that we produce and sell for third party 
consumption. We exclude emissions associated with 
products that are manufactured by others and purchased  
by Hess for resale. Emissions factors for refined petroleum 
products are based on the EPA rule for mandatory GHG 
reporting. Natural gas emissions factors reflect CO 2 content 
in gas sales.
Our product use emissions have decreased from 
approximately 40 million tonnes CO 2e in 2010 to 22 million 
tonnes CO 2e in 2012, as a result of shutting down our 
HOVENSA joint venture refinery. In February 2013 we closed 
our remaining Port Reading refining facility. Therefore, our 
Scope 3 product use emissions from refined petroleum 
products are expected to be less than one million tonnes  
in 2013.
Other Scope 3 Emissions
In addition to our product use emissions, in 2009 we began 
identifying and quantifying potential carbon hotspots in our 
value chain. To date, we have collected data associated  
with third party supply and distribution and business travel. Product Use Emissions
Million Tonnes CO2
GHG factors are 0.37, 0.43 and 0.47 tonnes of CO2/barrel for gasoline, diesel 
and residual oil, respectively, and 0.0966 tonnes of CO2/MMBtu for natural 
gas. These factors are based on the EPA rule for mandatory GHG reporting, 
except the gas factor which is adjusted for JDA’s CO2 content in gas sales.2010
2011
20124.6
2.8 5.5 1.514.2 13.4 4.9 7.7
13.4 11.1 4.1 7.1
13.2 4.5
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 Natural Gas     Gasoline     Diesel     Residual Oil48   
 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGYScope 3 emissions from these activities are not material 
relative to product use emissions, but demonstrate our 
progress in assessing our value chain GHG emissions.
We have refined our approach for 2012 to focus on third 
party activities where we can obtain accurate and reliable 
source data. These include ocean transport of refinery 
feedstock for the Port Reading refining facility and refined 
petroleum products for resale by Energy Marketing and 
Retail Marketing. We also collect data on employee business 
travel on commercial air carriers. In 2012 Scope 3 ocean 
transport emissions were 210,000 tonnes CO 2e, similar to 
2011. Our emissions from employee business travel on 
commercial aircraft were approximately 23,000 tonnes, the 
same as 2011. 
We offset more than 120 percent of commercial carrier 
emissions through the purchase of carbon credits from The 
Climate Trust (TCT). In addition, we provided a $25,000 grant 
to TCT to support an avoided grasslands conversion carbon 
offsets project in the Prairie Pothole Region of North Dakota. 
The grant will advance validation of a new carbon offset 
protocol for avoided grasslands conversion by the American 
Carbon Registry and the Voluntary Carbon Standard. The 
methodology will enable grassland producers to earn income 
from preservation of their grasslands and the soil carbon 
present in these systems. As a result, this project will support ranching families and rural communities in a region of noted 
rural out-migration while preserving sensitive habitat. 
We have joined the CDP Supplier Initiative (formerly known  
as the Carbon Disclosure Project) and have requested  
key suppliers of refined petroleum products and biofuels  
to respond to our information requests. Our goal is to 
improve our understanding of third party GHG emissions 
from the production of these products that we sell to 
customers and consumers.
ENERGY USE
Energy management is fundamental to our company’s 
business strategy and our ongoing efforts to improve  
energy efficiency at Hess.
Our operations make and purchase energy primarily for 
power, processing, heating and cooling. In 2012 energy 
consumption from Hess operated assets was approximately 
47,000 thousand gigajoules, a 2.3 percent increase over 
2011. Seventy-five percent of our energy use was generated 
directly by our operations. The remaining 25 percent was 
gross indirect energy (including energy burned by the utility 
to provide net purchased electricity).
The slight rise in energy use in 2012 was primarily at  
E&P operations where approximately 75 percent of the 
 U.S. (E&P) 24,590
 U.S. (M&R) 11,938
  Equatorial Guinea  
3,833
 Indonesia  2,879
 Denmark 2,365
 U.K. 1,148
 Thailand 171Energy Use 
Thousand Gigajoules
 Direct     Indirect
2010
33,238 11,218
2011
201234,021 11,853
34,993 11,932
0 10,000 20,000 30,000 40,000 50,000 60,000Energy Use by Country
Thousand Gigajoules
25%6%5%
52%8%2% 1%49   
 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTcompany’s energy was used. The largest increase occurred 
at our rapidly expanding North Dakota operations, where 
year-over-year production increased 87 percent and energy 
use rose 18 percent.
In 2012 U.S. operations accounted for more than 99 percent 
(approximately 1.1 million megawatt hours) of net purchased 
electricity. Based on U.S. electricity generation profiles, we 
estimate that approximately 8 percent of this electricity was 
generated from renewable sources, primarily wind and 
hydroelectric power. Hess targets to purchase at least 10 
percent of annual net electricity from renewable sources. In 
2012 we acquired 180,000 Green-e Energy certified RECs 
for wind power, equal to 180,000 megawatt hours or about 
15 percent of our net purchased electricity. Overall, 
approximately 23 percent of our indirect energy use was 
from renewables.
Energy Initiatives
In 2012 Hess continued to improve energy efficiency and 
reduce energy consumption at our operations. We began 
monthly collection of energy use and spend data at our 
assets to identify opportunities to reduce energy and costs. 
These data are reported monthly to senior leaders and will 
inform our five year climate change strategy and energy 
goals for 2014-2019. For major new projects ($50 million or greater) we require 
that energy assessments be included in planning and  
review. We held project planning workshops at all major E&P 
locations to educate project design teams on new requisite 
tools for assessing energy efficiency. The workshops were 
developed by a cross-functional team of internal and 
external energy experts.
We also continued to advance the energy efficiency  
projects at existing facilities. For example, a lighting project 
was completed at a New Jersey facility, lowering energy  
use by a projected 145 MWh annually. Terminal Operations 
continued a multiyear strategy to reduce fuel use by 
converting boilers from heavy fuel oil to natural gas. In  
late 2012 through early 2013, our Charleston, S.C.  
and Pennsauken, N.J. terminals completed natural gas 
conversions. We also improved the monitoring and 
accountability for boiler fuel use and in some markets  
we stopped storing fuel products that must be heated. 
Combined, these efforts resulted in a 31 percent decrease  
in Terminal Operations’ fuel use between 2009 and 2012.
 Natural Gas 423
 Coal 400
 Nuclear 229
 Wind  57
 Hydro  23
  Biomass, solar and other 
renewables <10 Natural Gas 25,544
 Petroleum Coke 5,620
 Diesel 3,493
 Fuel Oil 335
 Renewables (Solar) 4Direct Energy Use by Fuel Source
Thousand GigajoulesU.S. Net Indirect Energy Use by Fuel Source*
Thousand MWh
5%
20% 37%
35%2% 1%
10%
16%
73%1% <1%
* Approximate figures based on U.S. Energy Information Administration 
(EIA) state net electricity generation profiles for utilities and 
independent power producers as of March 201250   
 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGYGreen Buildings
In 2012 Hess continued to make progress 
incorporating environmental excellence into our leased 
buildings and owned facilities. Renovations continued 
at Hess’ M&R headquarters in Woodbridge, N.J., 
where we aim to achieve Leadership in Energy 
Efficiency and Design (LEED®) Gold certification. The 
renovations include the addition of high efficiency 
lighting and mechanical equipment and efficient 
window glazing, as well as sensor operated and 
low-flow plumbing fixtures. We also installed a $5.6 
million, 1.1-megawatt solar energy facility that supplies 
approximately 22 percent of the building’s electricity 
needs. The 3,472 single-axis panels have sun-tracking 
capability for up to 25 percent more sunlight capture 
than fixed panel systems. The field began operations 
in April 2012 and generated 1,037 megawatt hours 
(MWh) of electricity by the end of the year. 
Our leased E&P headquarters building in Houston  
is certified LEED Platinum for Core and Shell. We 
completed an interior buildout in 2011 to meet 
commercial interior LEED Silver criteria. Energy 
conservation features include a lighting system that monitors the position of the sun and adjusts window 
shades accordingly, occupancy sensors that turn off 
lights in unoccupied rooms and a “green roof” that 
helps cool the building. We measure and ensure 
indoor air quality, encourage bicycle commuting and 
have programs in place to ensure recycling. In 
addition, we use environmentally friendly cleaning 
supplies and pest control. The building’s high 
efficiency plumbing fixtures and its reuse of air 
conditioning condensate and rainwater for 
landscaping help to conserve our use of water.
Hess Solar Field, Woodbridge, N.J.
Hess E&P Headquarters, Houston, Texas51   
 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTWe have initiatives to reduce the amount of water and 
energy we use, limit the level of greenhouse gas and other 
air pollutants we emit, prevent spills, and reduce the time it 
takes to remediate affected sites. In 2012 we standardized 
waste management practices across U.S. operations to 
improve consistency and performance. 
We are currently conducting two major multiyear 
decommissioning projects in the U.K. sector of the North 
Sea. These projects have required extensive environmental 
assessments and have presented unique challenges as  
we remove thousands of tonnes of infrastructure from the 
seabed for subsequent recycling and disposal. 
We are also introducing a new global air emissions reporting 
system, which will improve the accuracy, reliability and 
accessibility of environmental data. 
In addition we are strengthening and standardizing our 
environmental assessment processes to ensure key 
environmental risks are identified, mitigated and 
communicated to our stakeholders. In 2012 we began to 
use new evaluation tools to assess the environmental and 
social risks associated with our operations. In the Utica 
Shale in Southeast Ohio we began using an online We are strengthening our 
environmental assessment 
processes to ensure that key 
environmental risks are identified, 
mitigated and communicated to 
our stakeholders. Environmental 
stewardship and responsible 
development make good  
business sense.ENVIRONMENT
Valhall Field, NorwayGeographical Information System (GIS) that incorporates 
environmental and social baseline data. It is used on a daily 
basis to help us avoid ecologically sensitive areas, minimize 
impacts to the environment and reduce permitting 
requirements and review time.
WATER USE
Fresh water availability and quality are issues of increasing 
importance, especially within Exploration and Production 
(E&P). We recognize responsible water use is a key issue for 
the communities where we operate and for our stakeholders. 
Our Environment, Health and Safety Policy commits us to 
conserving natural resources. As a result, we closely monitor 
our water use, strive to reduce our water footprint and are 
taking steps to safeguard water quality.
In 2012 our operations used 12 million cubic meters of fresh 
water, 99 percent of which was used in our U.S. operations. 
Groundwater accounted for 54 percent, surface water 
withdrawals less than 1 percent, and the remainder was 
purchased from local municipalities. Fresh water use 
decreased about 8 percent compared to 2011, primarily  
due to lower consumption in our gas processing and refining 
operations. No water sources were identified as having been 
significantly affected by the company’s water use.
In 2012 we used 8.5 million cubic meters of fresh water in 
our E&P operations, 71 percent of the company total. About 
78 percent was used by U.S. natural gas processing plants 
(Seminole in Texas, Tioga in North Dakota and Sea Robin in Louisiana), 21 percent was used for hydraulic fracturing 
operations and 1 percent for all other operations. 
The Seminole Gas Processing Plant (SGP) in West Texas 
was our largest fresh water user. The plant uses water 
mainly for process cooling and sources it from a Hess 
owned and operated groundwater well field. Due to  
regional climatic conditions – dry all year and hot during  
the summer – there is a high evaporative loss associated 
with SGP’s cooling system. The facility recirculates water  
in its cooling towers between three to five cycles, and to 
prevent buildup of solids in the circulating water a portion  
is removed as “blowdown.” Fresh water inputs to the 
cooling system must replace both the amount of blowdown 
and the amount of water lost to evaporation. 
In 2012 SGP used 6.3 million cubic meters of water for 
process cooling and other utilities, 5 percent less than in 2011. 
To put this in context with overall regional use, SGP’s 2012 
groundwater withdrawals represented 0.1 percent of the 
estimated regional demand from the Ogallala Aquifer based on 
Texas Water Development Board data for the Llano Estacado 
region (www.twdb.texas.gov) which includes the county where 
SGP is located.
In Marketing and Refining (M&R), the Port Reading refining 
facility used 2.3 million cubic meters of water purchased 
from the local municipality, comprising 64 percent of M&R’s 
total fresh water use. Approximately 75 percent of the 2.3 
million cubic meters of water used at Port Reading was for 
the facility’s cooling system, which recirculates water 
Fresh Water Use by Business and Facility 
Thousand Cubic Meters
E&P
  Seminole Gas Plant 6,286
 North Dakota 1,758
 Tioga Gas Plant 206
 Sea Robin Gas Plant 174
 International 80
 Other U.S. 34
M&R
 Port Reading  2,272
 Retail  1,077
 Terminals/Woodbridge  179
52%19%9%
15%2%<1%
1%
1%1% Groundwater      Municipal      Surface WaterFresh Water Use
Million Cubic Meters
2010
6.6 3.7 0.04
2011
20128.5 4.6 0.02
6.5 5.5 0.07
0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 8.0 10.0 12.0 14.053   
 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTMonitor lizard, native to mangrove habitats near our Pangkah operations 
in Indonesia between three and six times. The facility’s utility systems 
account for approximately 20 percent of water use. The 
remaining 5 percent is used throughout various stages of  
the petroleum refining process.
SGP and Port Reading together accounted for 71 percent of 
the company’s 2012 fresh water consumption and represent 
the vast majority of our water recycling/reuse activities. In 2012 
about 1.1 million cubic meters (9%) of water was reused.
BIODIVERSITY
Understanding biodiversity and key ecosystem services  
are important considerations in our project planning and 
execution. At times our operations extend into sensitive 
habitats where the protection of migratory and local animal 
and plant life is critical to our project decision making. Our 
Environment, Health and Safety Policy reinforces our 
commitment to the environment.
We routinely conduct biodiversity screenings for major new 
projects as part of early site evaluation and selection. 
Environmental and social impact assessments (ESIAs) are 
used to create mitigation strategies for environmental and 
biodiversity risks. These ESIAs are performed for Hess by 
experienced third party consultants in accordance with 
country specific laws and regulations. 
ESIAs include biodiversity baseline studies followed by 
screening of plant and animal species against the 
International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN)  
Red List and threatened and endangered species lists.  
In locations where an ESIA is not mandated, our E&P 
management system framework requires risk screening  
and impact assessments for proposed exploration, drilling 
and development programs. ESIA results are made public 
where required by law. 
In 2012 we continued to enhance our approach to biodiversity 
impact assessment and management. We are building 
consistency in expectations and execution of our biodiversity 
and ecosystem services by developing global standards that 
address these issues. Part of this development process 
includes evaluating the implementation of IPIECA guidance on biodiversity assessment and management across our 
operations. We have also conducted a review of geospatial 
tools for identifying ecosystem risk factors and are currently 
assessing training needs. 
In 2012 Hess E&P assets continued the ESIA process 
initiated in 2011 for our offshore Tubular Bells project in the 
Gulf of Mexico. We also began the scoping of an ESIA to 
assess the risks associated with our offshore Stampede 
project in the Gulf of Mexico, which is in the early conceptual 
design phase. 
In North Dakota we completed a study of the effects of 
seismic surveys in Lake Sakakawea on pallid sturgeon and 
other endangered fish species. We conducted this study to 
understand the impacts of proposed seismic geophysical 
surveys that may occur in September 2013 within specific 
regions of the lake pending U.S. Fish & Wildlife approval. 
The study findings included identification of sound levels to 54   
 ENVIRONMENTwhich adult fish can be safely exposed and will inform best 
practices for future surveying activities.
Hess is a member of the Biodiversity and Ecosystems 
Services working group of IPIECA, the global oil and gas 
industry association for environmental and social issues. 
IPIECA provides us with opportunities to continuously learn 
and improve as well as engage with stakeholders inside and 
outside our industry. For example, IPIECA, the International 
Council on Mining and Metals and the Equator Principles 
Association have formed the Cross Sector Biodiversity 
Initiative (CSBI). This initiative brings the mining, oil and gas 
and financial sectors together to develop and share best 
practices to safeguard biodiversity and ecosystems. This 
workflow is helping us effectively apply the International 
Finance Corporation’s Performance Standard 6 on 
Biodiversity, Conservation and the Sustainable Management 
of Living Natural Resources. 
Hess also participates in the Advisory Committee of the 
Environmentally Friendly Drilling – Technology Integration 
Program (EFD-TIP). The EFD-TIP represents an integrated 
approach for applying new technologies to address 
environmental impacts in shale oil and gas production. 
Potential technologies come from service providers, 
Research Partnership to Secure Energy for America  
projects, National Energy Technology Laboratory funded 
projects, and the EFD Program (efdsystems.org). 
Since 2010 Hess has collaborated in an industry-wide  
study on fish impingement and entrainment and thermal 
impacts of cooling water intakes. The study was initiated  
to support revisions to the Gulf of Mexico-wide National 
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit.  
It is now being used to support development of a company 
monitoring plan that addresses permit requirements for  
both existing and new facilities.
In 2012 we began to use new evaluation tools to effectively 
assess biodiversity risks associated with our operations, 
including the GIS tool in the Utica Shale.
In addition to the evaluation of available biodiversity tools,  
a formalized data collection scope of work is under development. The use of a formalized approach and 
biodiversity data collection tools will help us enhance our data 
collection process during the next several years. Historically 
we have collected biodiversity data manually through reviews 
of ESIAs and other existing reports, which are limited because 
they only cover a fixed time period. This improved approach 
will help us maintain more up-to-date information.
IUCN Red List
Hess Corporate Environmental Affairs maintains a list  
of IUCN Red List species compiled and updated using 
environmental due diligence, screening and impact 
assessment reports. Most of the endangered or critically 
endangered species on this list are marine life that thrives  
in tropic and subtropic regions, including some coastal  
and offshore regions in the vicinity of our project areas.
No Hess asset is located within an IUCN protected area, 
with the exception of the Sinphuhorm Natural Gas Field in 
northeastern Thailand. Some associated wellheads and gas 
gathering lines lie within the northern boundary of the Phu 
Kao-Phu Phan Kham National Park, an IUCN Category V 
protected area. To help maintain and protect this national 
forest, we provide financial support for local fire fighting and 
reforestation programs.
SITE DECOMMISSIONING
As offshore oil and gas facilities reach the end of their 
commercial life, decommissioning those assets presents 
unique engineering, environmental protection and waste 
management challenges. The Fife, Fergus, Flora and Angus 
IUCN Category Number of Species
Critically Endangered 22
Endangered 41
Vulnerable 243
Near Threatened 25055   
 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTfields (FFFA) in the North Sea stopped production in 2008 
after delivering more than 100 million barrels of oil during a 
17-year life. The Ivanhoe and Rob Roy fields (IVRR), also in 
the North Sea, have also ceased production. The knowledge 
gained from the FFFA project will be applied to their 
decommissioning this year. These fields mark the first major 
subsea abandonment in United Kingdom (U.K.) waters. 
While well abandonment is not uncommon, most abandoned  
wells in the North Sea have been primarily from fixed 
platforms, with fewer challenges than older fields present 
such as corrosion. 
As these projects are the first of their kind in the North Sea, 
our activities are setting a precedent for future decommissioning projects in the region. We have been 
active in industry committees to develop guidance for 
responsible decommissioning practices and worked with 
regulators to ensure that these operations are completed 
safely and effectively. 
As the operator of these fields, we thoroughly researched 
and planned the decommissioning design. Full 
decommissioning plans were prepared and environmental 
impact assessments were conducted for the FFFA and  
IVRR projects. These included assessments of the possible 
environmental and social impacts from decommissioning 
activities on the biological environment, in addition to fishing 
and other commercial activities in the area. 
Fife, Fergus, Flora and Angus Fields Decommissioning Map
The decommissioning of the Fife, Fergus, Flora and Angus fields’ subsea facilities in the U.K. North Sea is setting standards for future projects 
in the region. 
Fife, Fer gus,
Flora & Angus
337km (209 miles)
southeast of
AberdeenAberdeen
Edinburgh
Teeside56   
 ENVIRONMENTDecommissioning activities at FFFA commenced with the 
removal of the Floating Production Storage Offloading 
(FPSO) vessel. Then a multiyear undersea process began to 
disconnect and remove “mattresses” (big concrete blocks 
latticed together with wire mesh or rope), “trees” (assemblies 
of valves and fittings attached to each oil well), and the 
associated subsea pipelines. 
Steps are taken to conduct work safely and minimize  
impact on the environment. For example, a guard vessel 
remains in place at the site to keep shipping traffic clear  
and be a potential first responder in case of an oil spill or 
other emergency. Arrangements have also been made  
for decontamination and recycling or disposal of the 
infrastructure removed from the seabed. The operation  
will recover more than 7,000 tonnes of steel and concrete, 
95 percent of which will be recycled. 
DISCHARGES
Discharges in our E&P and M&R operations include 
stormwater runoff and process wastewater. In the U.S.  
these discharges are regulated under the National Pollutant 
Discharge Elimination System (NPDES). Discharges 
associated with our E&P operations also include produced 
water, drill cuttings and drilling fluids. Offshore exploration 
and production discharges include drilling mud, drill cuttings 
and produced water. In 2012 the drilling mud and cuttings discharged from  
offshore operations contained approximately 322 metric  
tons of oil. Offshore produced water discharges totaled  
16.5 million cubic meters with an average oil content of  
nine parts per million volume (ppmv). The discharged 
produced water contained 119 metric tons of oil, 93  
percent of which was from operations in Equatorial Guinea, 
the North Sea and Indonesia. 
Onshore E&P operations generated approximately 24.9 
million cubic meters of produced water, of which 57 percent 
was reinjected for reservoir management and 43 percent 
was reinjected for disposal. No produced water onshore 
was discharged to surface water. Overall, 95 percent of gas 
plant stormwater discharge samples were within NPDES 
permit limits. 
The Port Reading refining facility discharged 1.3 million  
cubic meters of treated wastewater. Nearly all (99.7 percent) 
of terminal and refinery discharge samples were within 
permit specifications.
HYDROCARBON SPILLS
In 2012 hydrocarbon spill volumes totaled 788 barrels from 
138 spills. The volume of hydrocarbon spills has increased 
over the past three years and spill volumes nearly doubled 
from 2011. Three spills in North Dakota accounted for 58 
Hydrocarbon Spills
201034894 116
456
2011 20120 0900
450160
80788138 Volume of Oil Spills (bbls)     Number of Oil Spills (#)Oil in Produced Water Discharges to Sea
201013
22110
1499
119
2011 2012050250
200
150
100
06
4
214
12
10
8 Oil Volume in Produced Water (Metric Tons)
 Oil Concentration in Produced Water (ppmv*)
*parts per million volume57   
 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTpercent of the 2012 spill volume. Equipment was immediately 
shut down and cleanup efforts commenced. More than 
two-thirds of the spilled volume was recovered. 
Our company is a member of a spill consortium in North 
Dakota, Sakakawea Area Spill Response LLC (SASR), 
which organizes training exercises and purchases 
equipment to be made available in the event of a spill at 
Lake Sakakawea. This initiative allows faster and more 
comprehensive spill response capabilities. 
NON-HYDROCARBON SPILLS
The volume of non-hydrocarbon spills in E&P totaled 1,879 
barrels of fluid from 60 spills, a 57 percent decrease in 
volume from 2011. Two produced water spills totaling 1,015 
barrels occurred at our West Texas operations as a result of 
injection line leaks. More than 90 percent of the spill 
volumes were recovered.
CRITERIA POLLUTANTS 
Air emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOX) and sulfur oxides 
(SOX) result from fuel combustion, process operations  
and flaring activities. Volatile organic compounds (VOCs)  
are emitted during product loading and storage and fuel 
dispensing. In 2012 normalized NOX and SOX emissions 
increased 18 percent and 11 percent respectively. 
Normalized VOC emissions increased substantially in North 
Dakota as a result of increased activity and rapid expansion 
of operations.
2010437404,333
1,86988
60
2011 20120 05,000
2,500100
50 Volume of Spills (bbls)     Number of Spills (#)
20107.646.4
22.2
8.437.6
25.7
9.357.5
30.2
2011 2012030
20
1070
60
50
40 VOCs      NOx      SOxNon-Hydrocarbon Spills Criteria Pollutants
Emissions (Tonnes per million BOE)
Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area, Gulf of Thailand
WASTE
Our typical waste streams include construction debris,  
scrap metal and wood, office and domestic waste, oily  
tank bottoms, contaminated soil, spent acids and caustics 
and used catalyst. Scrap metal, spent acids and caustics, 
and used catalysts are usually recycled or reused. Waste is 
disposed according to waste management plans at each 
operating location. 58   
 ENVIRONMENTApproximately 200,000 metric tons of waste was generated 
in 2012, of which 96 percent was non-hazardous. Thirty-
seven percent of the waste we generated last year was 
recycled or reused. 
In 2012 we exported 10.4 tonnes of waste considered 
hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention. The 
waste was generated from catalyst used in our operations  
at our Port Reading, N.J. refining facility and exported to  
the eurozone for recovery of precious metals.
REGULATORY COMPLIANCE AND  
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
We paid approximately $85,000 in environmental fines  
and penalties in 2012. More than 80 percent of those fines 
were incurred in our M&R segment, primarily associated  
with operation and maintenance of underground storage 
tank systems at our retail stations. Corrective actions were 
taken in response to each incident to ensure compliance 
going forward.
ENVIRONMENTAL EXPENDITURES
We remediate sites that have been affected by our activities, 
including former or current gas stations, terminals, refineries 
and onshore E&P facilities. We accrue for environmental 
assessment and remediation expenses when the future 
costs are probable and reasonably estimable. As described 
in Item 7 of the company’s 2012 SEC Form 10-K filing, at the end of 2012 Hess held a reserve of $55 million for 
estimated environmental remediation liabilities, which we 
expect will adequately cover assessment and remediation 
costs for all known impacted sites. Information about 
estimated asset retirement obligations, which are accounted 
for separately, is provided in the company’s 2012 SEC  
Form 10-K filing.
Environmental assessment and remediation expenditures in 
2012 were $19 million. In 2012 capital expenditures related 
to compliance with federal, state and local environmental 
standards, other than for the low sulfur requirements, were 
$70 million.
2010
83,451 4,185
2011
2012149,577 4,300
197,866 8,712
0 50,000 100,000 150,000 200,000 250,000 Non-hazardous     HazardousWaste
Metric Tons
Hess-supported Elizabeth River Remediation Project, Virginia59   
 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTASSETS IN TRANSITIONOur company’s multiyear transformation to become  
a more focused and higher growth exploration and 
production (E&P) company culminated March 4, 2013, 
when we announced we are exiting our downstream 
businesses, including retail, energy marketing and 
energy trading to become a pure play E&P company.
The company also announced we would further focus 
the E&P portfolio by divesting assets in Indonesia  
and Thailand and pursuing monetization of Bakken 
infrastructure assets in North Dakota, expected in 2015.
We will continue to provide information to stakeholders 
as our transformation into a pure play E&P company 
progresses. Until this process is complete, updates  
on the assets in transition will be provided in future 
sustainability reports. 
In this section we describe the key products and 
services of our downstream businesses for activities 
conducted in 2012.
ENERGY MARKETING
Hess Energy (hessenergy.com) is a leading energy 
marketer in the Eastern U.S., providing natural gas, 
electricity and fuel oil to more than 21,000 commercial, 
industrial, government and small business customers.  
In 2012 natural gas and electricity accounted for more 
than 85 percent of sales volumes on a thermal  
equivalent basis. 
The Energy Solutions group within Energy Marketing 
continued to build a portfolio of products and services 
to help customers reduce their energy use and costs, 
become more energy efficient and shrink their carbon 
footprint. Drivers include local regulations, voluntary 
corporate initiatives, and the favorable economics of 
natural gas over heating oil.
Energy Solutions offers integrated commodity contracts 
that can incorporate energy efficiency, renewable 
energy, and fuel conversion services, depending on a 
customer’s needs. Energy management and efficiency 
services include Demand Response, retrofit assessments, comprehensive energy audits, energy 
benchmarking and energy reduction plans that help 
customers meet their voluntary energy goals or comply 
with local regulations. 
In New York City, recent clean air legislation mandates 
the phase out of heavy heating oils, which will impact 
approximately 10,000 buildings. Energy Solutions 
provides comprehensive fuel conversion services 
integrated with commodity contracts. Together these 
services ensure that buildings are properly heated  
and that they benefit from the long term economic 
advantages of natural gas. We have joined the New  
York City Energy Efficiency Corporation on fuel 
conversion projects and the New York City Energy 
Efficiency Corporation and JPMorgan Chase & Co., 
which provide financing, while Energy Solutions provides 
project management and natural gas supply expertise. 
Our Energy Operations group includes wholesale 
electric and natural gas operations, as well as a new 
line of business in independent power generation. 
During 2012 operations began at the Bayonne Energy 
Center, a 512-megawatt natural gas fueled electric 
power plant joint venture with ArcLight Capital Partners. 
The plant provides electricity to New York City. A joint 
venture was also formed (Hess 50%) to build a 
655-megawatt natural gas fueled electric generating 
facility in Newark, N.J. (newarkenergycenter.com). 
REFINED PETROLEUM PRODUCTS
Hess has 1,361 branded retail stations along the U.S. 
East Coast (hessexpress.com). These stations provide 
customers with ultralow sulfur diesel (ULSD)  
and reformulated (RFG) and conventional gasoline.  
Our stations sold 534 million gallons of diesel fuel in 
2012, all of which were ULSD. RFG sales volumes were 
approximately one billion gallons and represented 52 
percent of total gasoline sales. Under U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency (EPA) regulations, in 2012 we 
generated approximately $8 million in surplus renewable 
fuels credits that we sold to other companies. ASSETS IN TRANSITIONWe purchase biodiesel produced from a variety of EPA-
approved feedstocks, including soybean oil, corn oil,  
canola oil, camelina oil, animal waste, waste grease and 
other sources to blend into ultralow sulfur diesel or #2 
heating oil at our Newark, N.J., Baltimore, Md., Bronx, N.Y., 
and Jacksonville, Fla. terminals. In 2012 our Marketing and 
Refining (M&R) segment purchased and sold approximately 
9.5 million gallons of biodiesel. 
Additional product responsibility information as per the 
Global Reporting Initiative’s GRI G3.1 guidelines is included 
on our public website where we have posted a GRI Content 
Index (hess.com/2012griindex). 
NUVERA FUEL CELLS 
Nuvera Fuel Cells (nuvera.com), a wholly owned Hess 
subsidiary, conducts applied research and development  
and commercialization of motive fuel cell power systems 
and hydrogen delivery solutions for automotive, industrial 
and aerospace applications. Technologies include hydrogen 
fuel cells for electric vehicles and hydrogen generation and 
fueling systems. Nuvera has conducted research with 
industry partners, academic institutions and the U.S. 
Department of Energy National Energy Labs to advance 
hydrogen fuel cell technology by continuing to improve fuel 
cell durability and the efficiency of fuel cell stack technology.
One of Nuvera’s key technologies is the PowerTap® 
hydrogen generator, which uses steam methane reformation 
to generate high-purity, high-pressure hydrogen. This 
technology capitalizes on abundant natural gas as a source 
of clean and cost effective hydrogen and can also use 
biomass methane and other renewable feedstocks. 
PowerTap® units are currently deployed in industrial 
applications, including the material handling industry.
Nuvera is also working on advanced hydrogen fuel cell 
systems for industrial mobility, automotive and aerospace 
applications. Nuvera has entered into joint development 
agreements with leading automotive and aerospace 
companies to further the advancement of OrionTM, an  
eighth generation fuel cell stack design. One example is a 
partnership with a major aerospace company to develop onboard electrical power generation systems for 
commercial airliners.
SUPERSTORM SANDY
Superstorm Sandy, one of the largest Atlantic storms on 
record, hit the U.S. East Coast in October 2012 with high 
winds, rain and an extreme storm surge that devastated  
one of the most densely populated and developed areas  
of the country. The storm and ensuing damage had a 
tremendous impact on our customers, our employees  
and our day-to-day business, especially affecting our M&R 
customers in and around the New York metropolitan area. 
Despite unprecedented challenges, Hess was able to 
continue providing products and services to customers.  
We were prepared, customer focused, committed to 
operating safely and remained dedicated to our corporate 
values through it all.
In the last decade, experience from serious weather events 
in Texas, Florida, North Dakota, the U.S. Northeast and Asia 
has taught us the importance of early planning. We routinely 
prepare, test and follow detailed procedures when faced 
with an emergency weather event. As the superstorm was 
approaching, we tracked it closely and ensured that our 
retail locations, terminals and Port Reading, N.J. refining 
facility followed pre-hurricane preparation checklists to 
safeguard employees and customers and secure equipment. 
Early on, we arranged for and staged 110 emergency 
generators to power our operational areas from Eastern 
Pennsylvania to metropolitan Boston that were in the storm’s 
path. Most generators were deployed to retail sites but some 
were used at our terminals to ensure a continuity of supply. 
We brought in additional personnel and equipment before 
the storm hit, including Hess employees and contractors 
who traveled from Houston and from the Southeastern U.S. 
to provide onsite support. 
We tracked the crisis as it developed, monitoring the 
locations of generators and personnel and recording the 
timeline of events around the region. At some of our 
locations in the New York City region we brought in cots  
and supplies to house workers temporarily, and we lodged 
out-of-town employees at nearby hotels.  61   
 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTWe worked with our energy marketing industrial, commercial 
and government customers in advance of the storm to 
provide them with ample fuel inventories. 
In addition to fuel for transportation, demand for fuel for 
back-up power generation significantly increased as areas 
within the region lost electricity for as long as two weeks.  
By placing large generators at our Port Reading Terminal,  
we were able to run the loading rack continuously for about 
10 days to meet the demand for gasoline and diesel fuel.  
We supplied fuel a day and a half after the storm surge hit  
to meet urgent needs in local communities, providing diesel 
fuel for senior centers, homeless shelters and hospitals.  
We also provided gasoline for public safety personnel and 
emergency responders. Our marketing staff handled a 
steady flow of calls from commercial, industrial and 
government clients needing diesel fuel to run their generators. 
The number of fuel deliveries in the days immediately after  
the storm was about three to four times normal.
Within two days after the storm ended, Hess had reopened 
177 of our 186 retail sites in New Jersey, New York City  
and Long Island, operating at 95 percent capacity regionally. 
Although there were long lines of customers at some 
stations, Hess retail staff worked hard to maintain an 
organized and safe environment for customers and 
employees. Station personnel assisted with directing traffic 
and maintaining orderly queues for gasoline as well as in 
convenience stores. Office-based employees across Hess 
who had previous retail experience went on duty to help 
pump gas and otherwise assist motorists during the very 
hectic days following the storm. Our retail sites became 
important gathering places to get a cup of hot coffee or 
necessary food items in communities where the local Hess 
station was the nearest store with power. 
As the sites reopened, we posted real-time fuel inventory 
data on hessexpress.com, and encouraged motorists to visit 
stations with fuel inventories exceeding 7,000 gallons. We 
publicized this information to minimize customer frustration associated with shortages. Our website, Facebook page and 
Twitter pages kept customers informed about our fuel 
supplies and addressed their questions and concerns. 
Through the social networks, our customers expressed 
many positive comments about Hess facilities being open 
and accessible.
Our people relied on teamwork and collaboration to maintain 
employee and customer safety and business continuity 
throughout this crisis. The company established several ways 
to communicate with employees about safety issues and the 
status of Hess facilities. A 24-hour hotline was established  
to provide employees with information about which office 
locations were open and where to report for work. We also  
set up a website for employees with information about 
available assistance and services. Through this system we also 
sent out text message alerts, which were sometimes the most 
efficient means for getting news to employees. Our Houston 
office played an important role by assisting with procurement 
and communications during the days after the storm. 
Hess employees demonstrated their continued strong 
commitment to safety by ensuring there were zero 
recordable injuries or incidents during the storm and its 
aftermath. People throughout the company acknowledged 
that the independent spirit and focus on people and 
communities that are embodied in the Hess Values were  
vital in helping us successfully weather this historic storm.
Hess business leaders have reviewed our performance 
during Superstorm Sandy so that we can improve our 
response and resilience in future situations. Planning and 
preparation were essential to our quick recovery immediately 
after the storm. We intend to be even more proactive during 
future events by mobilizing Hess employees and contractors 
from outside the affected region even sooner. The value of 
having communication and logistical support that is based 
outside the affected area and improving remote access for 
key personnel within the impacted area were among the 
important lessons we learned.62   
 ASSETS IN TRANSITIONPERFORMANCE DATA
This table contains a subset of our publicly reported performance data. Refer to the company’s 2012 SEC 10-K and proxy 
statement at hess.com/investors for additional information.      
Units 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
Governance
Number of members of the Board # 14 13 13 13 13
Independent Board members # 11 10 10 10 10
Female members of the Board of Directors % 14 15 15 15 15
Minority members of the Board of Directors % 7 8 8 8 8
Board members that are both minority and female # 1 1 1 1 1
Board members from outside the U.S. % 0 0 0 0 0
Board members in the "50 and above" age group % 100 100 100 100 100
Business Performance
Sales and other operating revenue $ Million 37,691 38,466 33,862 29,614  41,134 
Refined petroleum product sales 000 BOE/D 389 430 471 473  472 
Net income $ Million 2,025 1,703 2,125 740  2,360 
Total assets $ Million 43,441 39,136 35,396 29,465  28,589 
Total debt $ Million 8,111 6,057 5,583 4,467  3,955 
Total equity $ Million  21,203 18,592 16,809 13,528  12,391 
Debt to capitalization ratio % 27.7 24.6 24.9 24.8  24.3 
Exploration and Production
Total net hydrocarbons produced 000 BOE/D  406 370  418  408  381 
Proved reserves (total) Million BOE 1,553 1,573  1,537  1,437  1,432 
Reserve life Years 10.3 11.4  9.9  9.5  10.0 
Replaced production % 141 147  176  103  171 
Economic Contributions
Capital and exploration expenditures $ Million 8,265 7,462 5,855 3,245 4,828
Operating costs $/BOE 20.6 19.7 14.5 13.7 15.5
Income tax $ Million 1,675 785 1,173 715 2,340
Royalties and other payments to governments $ Million 920 947 1,542 414 891
Cash dividends paid to shareholders $ Million 171 136 131 131 130
Employee wages and benefits (U.S.) $ Million 1,045 1,057 992 794 720
Interest expense before income taxes $ Million 419 383 361 360 267
Supplier spend (approximate)* $ Billion 8 6 2 2 2
     Asia Pacific % 11 15 NC NC NC
     Africa % 11 25 NC NC NC
     Europe % 10 10 NC NC NC
     Other % <1  <1 NC NC NC
     U.S. % 68 50 NC NC NC
         With small businesses (U.S.) % 24 29 28 28 29
         With women-owned small businesses (U.S.) % 6 7 6 8 5
         With minority-owned small businesses (U.S.) % 8 10 11 10 5
Community and Social Performance
Total social investment $ Million 40 23 18 13 21
       Education % 47 33 34 13 49
       Health % 4 5 12 23 12
       Disaster relief % 13 5 9 8 15
       Community contributions (not in-kind) % 22 20 19 29 17
       In-kind % 9 28 18 25 6
       Arts and culture % 5 8 7 — —
       Environment % <1 1 1 2 163   
 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTUnits 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
Global Workforce
Number of permanent employees (excludes Hetco  
  front office & Russia)# 13,277 13,021 12,587 12,229 12,432
     U.S. % 90 90 91 91 91
     International employees % 10 10 9 9 9
Temporary employees # 1,180 825 NC NC NC
Part time employees % 23 24 NC NC NC
Full time employees % 77 76 NC NC NC
Employee turnover - voluntary (excluding hourly retail) % 6.8 7.2 NC NC NC
Employee lay-offs (excluding hourly retail) % 0.9 1 NC NC NC
Female employees (U.S. and International) % 40 39 40 40 40
     Executives and senior officials % of job category 11 7 4 6 7
     First and mid-level managers** % of job category 31 31 31 NC NC
     Professionals** % of job category 34 33 34 NC NC
Minority employees (U.S.) % 38 37 36 36 37
     Executives and senior officials % of job category 6 7 7 7 7
     First and mid-level managers** % of job category 25 25 24 NC NC
     Professionals** % of job category 27 26 26 NC NC
Technical and personal training and development spend $ Million 14 16 12 11 13
Training per year per management/professional employee*** Average hrs 25 25 25 25 25
Training per year per hourly retail employee Average hrs 14 14 14 14 12
Employees represented by collective bargaining agreements % 6.0 6.5 8.7 9.0 7.5
Safety Performance ∆
Workforce (Employee + Contractor) Fatalities # 2 0 0 0 1
Workforce (Employee + Contractor) Hours worked Million hours 63.3 53.3 40.8 38.2 39.3
Employee Recordable Incident Rate per 200,000 hrs worked 0.50 0.71 0.81 0.83 1.12
Contractor Recordable Incident Rate per 200,000 hrs worked 0.70 0.73 0.50 0.45 0.80
Workforce (Employee + Contractor) Recordable Incident Rate per 200,000 hrs worked 0.63 0.72 0.68 0.69 0.99
Employee Lost Time Incident Rate per 200,000 hrs worked 0.29 0.22 0.26 0.31 0.42
Contractor Lost Time Incident Rate per 200,000 hrs worked 0.18 0.12 0.07 0.15 0.24
Workforce Lost Time Incident Rate per 200,000 hrs worked 0.22 0.17 0.18 0.25 0.35
OHSAS 18001-certified operations % of production 1.6 1.9 1.9 2.0 2.0
Health and safety fines and penalties - operated $ Thousand 0 0 0 98 0
Products with Material Safety Data Sheets % 100 100 100 100 100
Environmental Performance ∆
Gross operated hydrocarbon production/throughput  
(normalization factor)000 BOE/D 1,000 1,083 1,150 1,193 1,149
Net hydrocarbon production and net refinery throughput 000 BOE/D 465 575 668 672 665
Port Reading Refinery throughput 000 BOE/D 116 124 128 145 137
Hydrocarbon spills - number # 138 116 94 117 123
Hydrocarbon spills - volume bbls 788 456 348 297 1,303
Non-hydrocarbon spills - number # 60 88 40 52 57
Non-hydrocarbon spills - volume bbls 1,869 4,333 437 3,751 1,860
Fresh Water Use
Groundwater Million m36.5 8.5 6.6 6.6 5.9
Municipal Million m35.5 4.6 3.7 3.9 2.6
Surface water Million m30.07 0.02 0.04 0.04 0.06
Reused/recycled (estimated) % 9 11 NC NC NC64   
 PERFORMANCE DATAUnits 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
Energy Use
Production energy intensity Gigajoules/boe 0.13 0.12 0.11 0.10 0.10
Operated direct energy use 000 Gigajoules 34,993 34,021 33,238 33,688 32,102
      Natural gas 000 Gigajoules 25,544 24,836 24,192 24,083 22,190
      Diesel 000 Gigajoules 3,493 3,283 3,587 3,175 3,772
      Petroleum coke 000 Gigajoules 5,620 5,496 4,982 5,922 5,666
      Fuel oil 000 Gigajoules 335 406 477 508 474
      Renewables (100% Solar) 000 Gigajoules 3.7 0 0 0 0
Operated indirect energy use (gross) 000 Gigajoules 11,932 11,853 11,218 9,850 8,958
Operated net indirect energy use (purchased electricity) by primary 
energy source****000 MWh 1,145 1,137 1,076 949 NC
     Coal % 35 35 42 49 NC
     Natural gas % 37 37 37 22 NC
     Nuclear % 20 20 12 20 NC
     Renewables % NC NC 6 6 NC
         Hydro % 2 2 NC NC NC
         Wind % 5 5 NC NC NC
         Biomass, solar and other renewables % <1 <1 NC NC NC
     Petroleum % <0.1 <0.1 2 2 NC
Green-e certified renewable energy certificates (wind power) 000 MWh 180 180 140 100 100
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Volume of flared & vented hydrocarbons MMscf 26,437 21,760 15,607 17,125 17,879
Operated direct emissions (Scope 1) Million Tonnes CO2e 5.0 4.4 3.7 4.0 3.9
     CO2Million Tonnes CO2e 4.7 4.2 3.5 3.6 3.7
     CH4000 Tonnes CO2e 207.4 139.6 123.7 294.7 174.7
     N2O 000 Tonnes CO2e 24.5 21.8 23.6 24.6 28.4
Operated direct emissions (Scope 1) by source 
     Flaring / venting % 49 43 36 40 39
     Fuel combustion % 46 55 61 57 57
     Other % 5 2 3 3 4
Operated indirect emissions (Scope 2) Million Tonnes CO2e 0.8 0.7 0.8 0.6 0.6
     CO2Million Tonnes CO2e 0.8 0.7 0.8 0.6 0.6
     CH4000 Tonnes CO2e 0.15 0.15 0.15 0.12 0.12
     N2O 000 Tonnes CO2e 7.8 7.2 6.7 5.2 6.4
Net equity GHG emissions Million Tonnes CO2e 8.0 9.1 9.0 9.5 10.8
Net equity carbon intensity (Scope 1 and 2) Tonnes/Thousand BOE — 43 38 39 44
Scope 3 emissions^ Million Tonnes CO2e 22.3 35.9 40.3 45.9 77.9
     Product use Million Tonnes CO2e 22.1 35.7 40.2 45.8 77.9
     Ocean transport logistics 000 Tonnes CO2e 210 221 56.8 55.9 NC
     Employee business travel (commercial air carriers) 000 Tonnes CO2e 23 22.7 19.7 11.6 NC
Air Emissions (Excludes GHGs)
Sulfur oxides (SOX) Tonnes 3,401 3,300 3,181 3,112 2,996
SOX intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 9.3 8.4 7.6 7.2 7.1
Nitrogen oxides (NOX) Tonnes 11,038 10,153 9,306 7,695 8,426
NOX intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 30.2 25.7 22.2 17.7 20.0
Volatile organic compounds (VOC) Tonnes 21,030 14,861 19,486 24,851 18,869
VOC intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 57.5 37.6 46.4 57.1 44.965   
 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTUnits 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
Exploration and Production Discharges
Oil in produced water to sea Tonnes 119 149 221 136 175
Oil in produced water to sea ppmv 9 10 13 19 20
Produced water to sea Million m316.5 17.4 20.1 8.3 10.0
Produced water reinjected Million m328.5 19.5 19.5 18.2 15.5
U.S. Clean Water Act Discharges – Port Reading Refinery
Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) Tonnes 24.5 10.7 7.4 36.9 7.4
Suspended solids Tonnes 13.4 14.3 11.2 41.2 5.8
Petroleum hydrocarbons Tonnes 5.2 5.7 4.6 4.8 4.6
Waste
Non-hazardous waste Thousand Tonnes 197.9 149.6 83.5 116.5 101.7
     Recovery/reuse/recycle % 38 40 50 56 60
     Treatment % 35 9 22 14 10
     Disposal % 18 45 18 26 12
     Incineration/energy recovery % 1 1 1 1 <1
     Land farm % 8 5 9 3 18
     Composting %  <1  <1  <1  <1 <1
Hazardous waste Thousand Tonnes 8.7 4.3 4.2 9.4 2.3
     Recovery/reuse/recycle % 12 3 4 2 13
     Treatment % 1 60 29 44 61
     Disposal % 34 23 48 51 17
     Incineration/energy recovery % 53 10 19 2 10
     Land farm % 0 4 0 1 0
Basel Convention (recovery/reuse/recycle) Tonnes 10.4 0 0 0 11
Other Environmental Indicators
ISO 14001-certified operations % of production 8 12 13 16 15
ISO 14001-certified operations # 3 3 3 3 3
Environmental fines and penalties $ Thousand 85 160 96 264 1,188
Capital expenditures $ Million 70 95 85 50 15
Environmental expenditures - remediation $ Million 19 19 13 11 11
Environmental reserve $ Million 55 60 55 55 61
Malaysia/Thailand JDA Environmental and Safety Indicators 
Direct energy use 000 Gigajoules 8,346 6,944 7,046 6,650 6,594
Waste generation Tonnes 382 457 880 726 264
Criteria Pollutants - NOx Tonnes/Million BOE 45.16 42.54 44.55 49.23 36.30
Criteria Pollutants - SOxTonnes/Million BOE 1.68 1.73 2.17 2.16 3.10
Criteria Pollutants - VOC Tonnes/Million BOE 8.37 8.07 8.78 8.72 26.23
Recordable incident rate - workforce (contractors + employees) per 200,000 hrs worked 0.39 0.27 0.13 0.36 0.48
SonaHess Environmental and Safety Indicators 
Direct energy use 000 Gigajoules 6,096 5,718 5,621 5,788 4,599
Waste generation Tonnes 745 767 826 86 898
Hydrocarbon spills - number # 5 4 12 5 9
Hydrocarbon spills - volume bbls 25 17 55 9 46
Non-hydrocarbon spills bbls 198 20 1,031 -- --
Criteria Pollutants - NOxTonnes/Million BOE 69.49 56.66 51.82 53.17 72.17
Criteria Pollutants - SOxTonnes/Million BOE 0.36 0.31 0.28 0.26 0.25
Criteria Pollutants - VOC Tonnes/Million BOE 243.4 248.53 253.12 279.31 451.59
Recordable incident rate - workforce (contractors + employees) per 200,000 hrs worked 0.33 0.11 0.48 0.39 0.34
 * Supplier spend for 2008-2010 is U.S. only; U.S. data are based on the October 2011-September 2012 timeframe and reflect recordable supplier  
  spend as reported to the U.S. Small Business Administration, which is overseen by the U.S. Department of Defense. International supplier data are  
  based on commercial discretionary spend.
 ** Corporate classifications changed between 2009 and 2010, so data prior to 2010 are not provided.
 *** Estimated training per management/professional employee
 **** Third party power generation
 ^ Sum of all Scope 3 emissions that we measure. Other Scope 3 emissions that have not been quantified are not included in these totals.
 ∆ Where relevant, all data are restated to exclude joint ventures.
 ∆∆ Data on the percentage of new employees receiving anti-corruption training were not fully available prior to 2012.66   
 PERFORMANCE DATAGRI  
IndicatorGeneral Description Page(s)GRI 
StatusUNGC 
Principle(s)IPIECA  
Indicator
1.0 Strategy and Analysis
1.1 Message from the CEO 2-3 ●
1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities (a) 2-5 ●
2.0 Organizational Profile
2.1-2.9 Organizational profile (a) 5-7, 63 ●
2.10 Awards received during reporting period 71 ●
3.0 Report Parameters
3.1-3.3 Reporting period, scope and boundary 8 ●
3.4 Contact point for questions regarding report 71 ●
3.5-3.8 Determination for content 8 ●
3.9 Data measurement techniques and basis of calculations 9 ●
3.10, 3.11 Explanation of restatements and significant changes 9 ●
3.12 GRI content index 67-69 ●
3.13 External assurance 9, 70 ●
4.0 Governance
4.1-4.7,  
4.9, 4.10Information on highest governance body (a, b, c) 13-14, 63 ●
4.8 Internal values, codes of conduct, and principles 10-11, 22-23, 27 ● 1-10
4.11 The precautionary approach 11 ● 7
4.12 Externally-subscribed or endorsed voluntary initiatives (c) 13, 27-28 ● 1-10
4.13 Key memberships and associations 14 ●
4.14-4.17 Stakeholders, types of engagement, key topics and concerns 8, 15 ●
Economic
EC DMA Disclosure on management approach to economic performance (a, b) 2-3, 6-7 ●
EC DMA Disclosure on management approach to market presence 2-3, 6-7 ●
EC DMA Disclosure on management approach to indirect economic impacts 22-26 ●
EC1 Direct economic value (a, b) 7, 63 ● SE4, SE13
EC2 Financial implications of climate change 44-46 ● 7
EC3 Defined benefit plan obligations (a, b) 41 ●
EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government (c) OCI ●
EC5 Comparison of standard entry level wage with local minimum wage 41 ● 1
EC6 Local supplier spend at significant locations of operation 16, 63 SE5, SE7
EC7 Local hiring at significant locations of operation 40 ● 6 SE5, SE6
EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services 23-26 ● SE4
EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts (c) OCI SE6
OG1 Volume and type of estimated proved reserves and production 6, 63 ●● Fully reported    Partially reported GRI G3.1 Core & OGSS Indicator GRI G3.1 Additional Indicator IPIECA onlyGRI CONTENT INDEX
This index refers to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 indicators, with cross-reference to the 10 Principles in the United 
Nations Global Compact (UN Global Compact) and IPIECA sector-specific guidelines. Detailed information on GRI indicators 
related to Board-level governance (4.1–4.7, 4.9, 4.10) and defined benefit plan obligations (EC3) can be found at hess.com/
investors and in our Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) forms 10-K and DEF C14A. An expanded GRI Index is 
available at hess.com/2012griindex.
OCI: GRI Online Content Index 
a – See also Annual Report and SEC 10-Kb – See also hess.com/investors 
c – See GRI Online Content Index (hess.com/2012griindex)67   
 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTGRI  
IndicatorGeneral Description Page(s)GRI 
StatusUNGC 
Principle(s)IPIECA  
Indicator
Environment
EN DMA Disclosure on management approach to environmental aspects 44-46, 52-53 ● 7
EN1, EN2 Materials used and percentage recycled input materials (c) OCI 8
EN3, EN4 Direct and indirect energy use by primary source 49-50, 65 ● 8 E2
OG2, OG3 Total amount invested in renewable energy and total amount generated by source 51 ● 8, 9
EN5 Energy conservation and efficiency initiatives and improvements 50-51 8, 9 E2
EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable products and services 60-61 ● 8, 9 E3
EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved 50-51 8, 9 E2
EN8, EN9 Total water withdrawal by source, significantly affected water sources 53-54, 64 ● 8 E6
EN10 Water recycled and reused 53-54, 64 ● 8, 9 E6
EN11, EN12 Proximity of protected areas/areas of high biodiversity 55 ● 7, 8 E5
EN13 Habitats protected or restored 49, 55 ● 8 E5
EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity 54-55 ● 8 E5
OG4 Significant operating sites in which biodiversity risk has been assessed and monitored 54-55 7, 8
EN15 Number of IUCN Red List and national conservation list species 55 ● 7
EN16, EN17 Total direct and indirect and other relevant greenhouse gas emissions 46-49, 65 ● 8 E1, E4
EN18 Greenhouse gas reduction initiatives and results 45-49 8 E1
EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 65 ● 8 E7
EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions 58, 65 ● 8 E7
EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 57, 66 ● 8 E9
OG5 Volume of formation or produced water 57, 66 ● 8
EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 59, 66 ● 8 E10
EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 57-58, 64, 66 ● 8 E8
EN24 Basel Convention waste management summary 59, 66 ● 8
EN25 Biodiversity value of receiving waters for water discharges and runoff 55 ● 8
OG6 Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbon 65 ● 8
OG7 Amount of drilling waste (drill mud and cuttings) and strategies for treatment and disposal 57, 66 ● 8
EN26 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 48-49, 60-61 ● 7-9
EN27 Products sold and packaging reclaimed (c) OCI ● 8, 9
OG8 Benzene, lead, and sulfur content in fuels (c) OCI ● 8
EN28 Fines, penalties and non-compliances 59, 66 ● 8
EN29 Transportation impacts 48-49, 65 ● 8
EN30 Environmental expenditures 59, 66 ● 8
Labor Practices and Decent Work
LA DMADisclosure on management approach to employment, labor/management  
relations, training and education and diversity and equal opportunity38 ●
LA DMA Disclosure on management approach to occupational health and safety 30-31 ●
LA1 Total workforce by employment type, contract and region 39, 64 ●
LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region 39, 64 ● 6
LA3Benefits provided to full time employees that are not provided to temporary  
or part time employees, by major operations41 ●
LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 29, 64 ● 1, 3
LA5 Minimum notice period of significant operational changes (c) 29 ● 3
LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in joint safety committees 31 1 HS1, SE16
LA7 Injury, occupational illness, lost days, absenteeism, and fatalities by region 31-32, 64 ● 1 HS3
LA8 Disease prevention programs 36-37 ● 1 HS2
LA9 Health and safety topics covered in collective bargaining agreements 31 ● 1 SE16
LA10 Average hours of training per employee by employee category 64 ● SE17
LA11 Programs for skills management, lifelong learning and career endings 42-43 ● SE17
LA12 Employees receiving regular performance and development reviews 42 SE17
LA13 Governing bodies and employees by category according to diversity indicators 39, 64 ● 1, 6 SE15
LA14 Ratio of basic salary of women to men by employee category 41 1, 6
LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender (c) OCI
IPIECA Process Safety 34-35 ● — HS568   
GRI  
IndicatorGeneral Description Page(s)GRI 
StatusUNGC 
Principle(s)IPIECA  
Indicator
Human Rights
HR DMA Disclosure on management approach to human rights aspects 27 ●
HR1 Human rights and significant investment agreements 27 1-6 SE8
HR2 Significant suppliers/contractors screened for human rights 23, 28-29 1-6 SE9
HR3 Employee training on policies and procedures concerning human rights 28 ● 1-6 SE8
HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 29 ● 1, 2, 6 SE18
HR5Operations and significant suppliers at risk re: freedom of association and collective 
bargaining 29 1, 2, 3
HR6 Operations and significant suppliers at risk re: child labor 29 1, 2, 5
HR7 Operations and significant suppliers at risk re: forced and compulsory labor 29 1, 2, 4
HR8 Security personnel trained on human rights 28-29 ● 1, 2 SE10
HR9 Violations of indigenous peoples' rights 24-27, 29 ● 1, 2
0G9 Indigenous communities present or affected by operations; location of engagement strategies 25-26, 29 ●
HR10 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments 28 ●
HR11Grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved though formal grievance 
mechanisms 27 ●
Society
SO DMADisclosure on management approach to corruption, public policy, anti-competitive behavior 
and compliance10-11 ● 10
SO DMA Disclosure on management approach to community 22-23 ●
SO1 Programs and practices that assess and manage impacts of operations on communities 13-14, 25-29 ● SE1-SE5
SO2 Business units analyzed for risks related to corruption 12 ● 10 SE11-SE12
SO3 Employees trained in anti-corruption policies and procedures 12 ● 10 SE11
SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 12 ● 10 SE11
SO5 Public policy positions/participation in public policy development and lobbying 2-3, 12, 44 1, 10 SE14
SO6 Political contributions 12 ● 10 SE14
SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior and outcomes 11 ●
SO8 Fines and penalties for non-compliance with laws and regulations 11 ●
SO9, SO10Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities, 
prevention and mitigation measures13-14, 25-29 ●
OG10 Significant disputes with local communities and indigenous peoples 29 ●
OG11Number of sites that have been decommissioned and sites that are in the process of being 
decommissioned 56-57 ●
OG12 Extent and impact of involuntary resettlement 29 ●
OG13 Number of process safety events, by business activity 34-35 ●
Product Responsibility
PR DMA Disclosure of management approach 60-62 ●
PR1 Life cycle assessment for health and safety impacts of products/services (c) OCI ● 1 HS4
PR2 Non-compliances with health and safety impact requirements for products/services (c) OCI ● 1 HS4
PR3 Product and service labeling requirements for significant products (c) OCI ● 8 HS4
PR4 Non-compliances with product and service labeling requirements (c) OCI ● 8 HS4
PR5 Customer satisfaction practices (c) OCI ●
PR6 Marketing communications compliance programs (c) OCI ● HS4
PR7 Non-compliance with marketing communications regulations/voluntary codes (c) OCI ●
PR8 Substantiated customer privacy complaints and data loss (c) OCI ● 1
PR9 Fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations re: products and services (c) OCI ●
OG14 Volume of biofuels produced and purchased meeting sustainability criteria (c) 61 ●69   
 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTINDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT
SCOPE AND OBJECTIVES 
ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was 
engaged by Hess Corporation to undertake assurance on its 2012 
Corporate Sustainability Report (the Report). The objective of our 
engagement was to obtain limited assurance that the Report 
provides an appropriate presentation of Hess Corporation’s 2012 
sustainability performance. We were also asked to confirm that the 
report conforms to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 
criteria for Application Level A and the common elements of the 
IPIECA/API Reporting Framework guidelines.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES & INDEPENDENCE
Hess Corporation is responsible for preparing the Report and  
the information contained within it. 
ERM CVS, responsible for reporting to Hess Corporation on its 
assurance conclusions, is a member of the ERM Group. ERM 
CVS has also been commissioned to verify Hess Corporation’s 
GHG data as reported to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP).
The work that ERM CVS conducts for clients is solely related  
to independent assurance activities and training programmes 
related to auditing techniques and approaches. Our processes 
are designed to ensure that the work we undertake with clients  
is free from bias and conflict of interest. ERM CVS and the staff 
that have undertaken work on this assurance exercise provide no 
consultancy related services to Hess Corporation in any respect.
REPORTING CRITERIA AND ASSURANCE APPROACH
We based our work on Hess Corporation’s internal guidance 
and definitions for the reported metrics which are based on  
the GRI and IPIECA guidelines as described on page 8 of the 
Report. We performed our work in accordance with ERM CVS’ 
assurance methodology, which is based on the International 
Standard for Assurance Engagements 3000: Assurance 
Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical 
Information issued by the International Auditing and Assurance 
Standards Board (ISAE 3000).
Between February and April 2013 we undertook a series of 
activities, including:
  Visits to the following operations to review activities and verify 
data and data management processes at reporting units; 
Exploration and Production operations in Equatorial Guinea, 
and North Dakota, U.S.A., and Marketing and Refining (M&R) 
oil products storage terminal operations in Jacksonville, Florida, 
U.S.A. Additional visits took place to E&P operations at North 
Dakota, the Tioga Gas Plant in North Dakota, the Southeast 
Asia Joint Development Area in Malaysia, and South Arne, 
Denmark to review greenhouse gas related data.  Discussions with Hess Corporation’s leaders who exercise 
overall business responsibility and those with accountability  
for data and Report content.
  Visits to offices in Houston, Texas, and Woodbridge, New 
Jersey to assess and review data collection, consolidated  
data management, data interpretation and internal data 
assurance processes.
For certain financial, production and economic data presented in 
the data table on page 63, we restricted our work to checking the 
consistency of the data with the audited 2012 SEC 10-K report.
CONCLUSIONS
Based on the assurance activities undertaken, nothing has 
come to our attention to suggest that the Report does not, in  
all material respects, provide an appropriate presentation of 
Hess’ sustainability performance during 2012. 
We also confirm that the Report meets the requirements of  
GRI G3.1 application level A+ and the common elements of  
the IPIECA/API reporting guidelines.
RECOMMENDATIONS
Without affecting the conclusions presented above, we 
recommend:
  using collection methodologies based on the data mapping 
from inception through to Corporate consolidation in order to 
further improve data consistency and transparency of the data 
chain of custody;
  further improvements to user guidance for calculating and 
capturing GRI/IPIECA performance data, including the sources 
that require measurement at each reporting unit;
  improving the consistency of independent data review 
processes at the reporting entities.
We have provided Hess Corporation with a separate, 
confidential report detailing our assessment of Hess’s 2012 
Sustainability Report.
Leigh Lloyd, Managing Director
June 2013
ERM Certification and Verification Services, London  
ermcvs.com  
E-mail: post@ermcvs.com70   
SUSTAINABILITY
 CDP Carbon Disclosure Leadership Indexes  
 - Global 500 (#2 in Energy Sector)  
 - S&P 500 (#3) 
 Dow Jones Sustainability Index North America
 MSCI ESG Indices  
 - MSCI World ESG Index  
 - MSCI World Socially Responsible Index  
 - MSCI KLD 400 Social Index
 oekom research AG Prime Status
 Newsweek Green Rankings  
 - U.S. Energy Sector (#1)
REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION
For copies of our Environment, Health and Safety Policy, Human 
Rights Policy or our Corporate Social Responsibility Policy, or 
for more information regarding our operations, please visit our 
website at Hess.com. 
We invite your questions, comments and suggestions  
regarding this report. To send us your questions or comments,  
or request more information or additional copies of this report, 
please contact:
Vice President,  
Environment, Health, Safety and Social Responsibility  
Hess Corporation  
1185 Avenue of the Americas  
New York, NY 10036
You can also send us an e-mail at ehs@hess.com.
SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING  
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This report contains projections, future estimates, plans, 
expectations and other forward-looking statements, including 
information about sustainability goals and targets and planned 
social, safety and environmental policies, programs, and 
initiatives. These statements reflect the company’s current views 
with respect to future events and the company’s performance.  
No assurance can be given that the development or continuation 
of any policy, program or initiative expressed in any forward-
looking statement will be achieved, and actual results could differ 
materially from those expected for a number of reasons, including 
risk factors affecting the company’s business. A discussion of 
these risk factors is included in the company’s annual report of 
Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.Sandy Alexander Inc., an ISO 14001:2004 certified printer with 
Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) Chain of Custody printed the 
Hess Annual Corporate Sustainability Report with the use of 
renewable wind power resulting in nearly zero carbon emissions. 
This report was printed on FSC-certified Mohawk Options paper, 
a process-chlorine-free 100 percent post-consumer waste (PCW) 
paper manufactured entirely with 100 percent certified wind 
energy and containing 100 percent post-consumer recycled fiber. Maplecroft Climate Innovation Index Cycle Three  
 - U.S. Companies (#6)
  Corporate Responsibility Magazine 100 Best 
Corporate Citizens List 
WORKFORCE
  International Liquid Terminals Association Safety 
Excellence Award
  Workforce Diversity for Engineering & IT 
Professionals Magazine’s Top 50 Employers List 
  Woman Engineer Magazine’s Top 50 Employers List
The savings below are achieved when PC recycled fiber is used in  
place of virgin fiber: 
214 trees preserved for the future
618 lbs water-borne waste not created
90,956 gallons wastewater flow saved
10,064 lbs solid waste not generated
19,815 lbs net greenhouse gases prevented
151,667,200 BTUs energy not consumed
Savings from the use of emission-free wind-generated electricity:
10,059 lbs ghg emissions not generated
Displaces this amount of fossil fuel:
11 barrels  of fuel oil unused
In other words your savings from the use of wind-generated electricity  
are equivalent to:
Not driving  9,955 miles or           Planting 684 treesAwards and Recognition71   
 2012 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT1185 Avenue of the Americas  
New York, New York 10036
www.hess.com