2019 Sustainability Report
www.hess.comOur purpose is to be the world’s 
most trusted energy partner. 
Hess Values set the framework 
and establish the ethical standards 
by which we conduct our business.
Integrity
People Performance
Value
CreationSocial
Responsibility
Independent
SpiritHESS VALUES
Integrity
We are committed to the highest level of integrity 
in all our relationships.
Performance
We are committed to a culture of performance that 
demands and rewards outstanding results throughout 
our business.
Social Responsibility
We are committed to meeting the highest standards  
of corporate citizenship by protecting the health and  
safety of our employees, safeguarding the environment 
and creating a long lasting, positive impact on the 
communities where we do business.
Independent Spirit
We are committed to preserving the special qualities 
and unique personality that have made us a successful 
independent enterprise.
Value Creation
We are committed to creating shareholder value based  
on sustained financial performance and long term 
profitable growth.
People
We are committed to attracting, retaining and energizing the 
best people by investing in their professional development 
and providing them with challenging and rewarding 
opportunities for personal growth.
REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION
For copies of our Environment, Health and Safety Policy, Social 
Responsibility Policy or Human Rights Policy, or for more information 
regarding our operations, please visit our website at hess.com/
sustainability/how-we-operate.
We invite your questions, comments and suggestions regarding this 
report. To send us your questions or comments, or to request more 
information or additional copies of this report, please contact:Vice President,  
Environment, Health and Safety  
Hess Corporation  
1501 McKinney Street  
Houston, TX 77010
You can also send us an email at sustainability@hess.com .REPORTING STANDARDS AND 
ASSURANCE
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) STANDARDS
This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: 
Core option. Our declaration of conformance with the GRI Standards has 
been reviewed and confirmed by our external verifier, ERM Certification 
and Verification Services. See the assurance statement on page 62 .
UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 
COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS
This is our Communication on Progress in implementing 
the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We 
welcome feedback on its contents.INDEX OF REPORTING 
INDICATORS
An index of our sustainability reporting indicators, including 
those from the GRI Standards, with cross reference to the 
Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, 
IPIECA (the global oil and gas industry organization for 
environmental and social issues) sector-specific guidelines 
and Sustainability Accounting Standards Board oil and 
gas industry metrics, can be found at hess.com/
sustainability/sustainability-reports/GRI-Index. The index 
includes all indicators required for a GRI Standards Core 
report, as well as a number of additional indicators for 
which we are able to provide supporting information.1 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
2MESSAGE FROM  
THE CEO
Our CEO’s view on building  
a sustainable enterprise21SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY
A review of social responsibility  
as our way of doing business60PERFORMANCE  
DATA
8PROGRESS  
AND GOALS
A snapshot of our progress  
and path forward
13HOW WE OPERATE
The values that define our 
expectations for sustainable 
management and performance53ENVIRONMENT
Responsible management of  
our environmental footprint62INDEPENDENT 
ASSURANCE  
STATEMENT27SAFETY AND HEALTH
Aiming to get everyone, 
everywhere, every day,  
home safe4ABOUT HESS
Our company operations  
in brief
63AWARDS AND  
RECOGNITION 35OUR PEOPLE
Creating a diverse and inclusive 
culture and high quality workforce 
that innovates, leads and learns
6APPROACH TO 
REPORTING
A description of our materiality 
assessment, reporting 
framework and boundaries 35 39 13TABLE OF CONTENTS
27
5CREATING VALUE
FOR SOCIETY
An overview of ways we deliver 
value for our stakeholders
39CLIMATE CHANGE  
AND ENERGY
Balancing the world’s growing 
energy needs with our cost-
effective greenhouse gas 
emission reduction policy
Carbon Asset Risk 
Assessment
Evaluating sustainability risks 
and global scenarios in 
making strategic decisions42
ON THE COVER
Offshore Operations, 
Gulf of Mexico2Our company’s purpose – to be the world’s most trusted energy 
partner – guides our strategy and actions to create business and 
societal value and address global challenges. We are committed to 
building a sustainable enterprise that helps meet the world’s energy 
needs in a safe, environmentally responsible, socially sensitive and 
profitable way. In 2019, we continued to execute our long term 
strategy that positions Hess to deliver visible and low risk production 
growth, material cash flow growth and increasing financial returns.
As the world battles the COVID-19 pandemic, our top priority 
is the safety of our workforce and the communities where we 
operate. A multidisciplinary Hess emergency response team has 
been overseeing our plans and precautions to reduce the risks of 
COVID-19 in our work environment. The global pandemic has 
had a severe impact on near term oil demand, resulting in a sharp 
decline in oil prices. Our company is in a strong position – with our 
low cost of supply and high return investments – to manage 
through the current low price environment and to prosper when
oil prices recover. 
Producing and enabling access to affordable, reliable energy is 
key to creating economic prosperity and raising standards of living 
across the globe, especially as the world responds to the pandemic 
and begins to recover from its effects. At the same time, the world 
is faced with the significant challenge of addressing climate change. 
Our strategy aligns with the energy transition needed to achieve 
the International Energy Agency’s (IEA’s) Sustainable Development 
Scenario, in which oil and gas will continue to be essential to meeting 
the world’s growing energy demand through 2040 and beyond. 
Our company will continue to be guided by the Hess Values and 
our longstanding commitment to sustainability, which create value 
for the benefit of all stakeholders and position us to continuously 
improve business performance. Our Board of Directors is 
climate change literate and actively engaged in overseeing Hess’ 
sustainability practices, working alongside senior management 
to evaluate various risks and global scenarios in making 
strategic decisions. The Board’s Compensation Committee 
has tied executive compensation to advancing the company’s 
environmental, health and safety goals.
Our 2019 Sustainability Report shows how we are addressing 
sustainability issues and integrating sustainable business practices 
into our strategy and goals. Our environment, health, safety and 
social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy is focused on several key 
areas, described below. Detailed information on our programs and 
performance is provided in this report and on our company website 
at www.hess.com.SAFETY
We work closely with our employees and contractors to promote 
a strong safety culture and continuously improve our performance 
toward our ultimate goal of zero incidents. In 2019, we saw an 
increase in our severe and significant safety incident (SSSI) rate 
early in the year, driven primarily by an increase in contractor 
incidents. SSSI is a key metric for incidents with the potential 
to result in severe consequences. To reverse this trend, we 
conducted root cause analyses and implemented corrective 
actions that included leadership site visits, safety surveys and 
safety improvement workshops, ultimately achieving a 33% 
reduction in our SSSI rate from April to December. We also 
reemphasized the importance of mitigating high risk activities 
by issuing an update to the “Hess Rules,” our baseline global 
requirements for safe work practices. 
Engaging our contractors, who in 2019 represented more than 
70% of our total workforce hours, continues to be a critical 
part of achieving our safety goals. We enhanced our contractor 
management practices in early 2020 by formalizing our engagement 
with contractors considered higher risk based on the scope of their 
work for Hess or their past EHS performance, to ensure alignment 
on the standards expected in Hess operations. 
Another key factor in achieving our ultimate goal of zero incidents 
is continuous improvement of our process safety management 
systems, which are an integral part of our business and play a 
critical role in mitigating risk. In 2019, we continued a multiyear 
process to standardize our approach to competency assurance 
and training for safety critical positions across the company. We 
also progressed the development of three new software systems 
focused on work authorization, management of change and 
safety observations – to increase awareness and provide better 
tools for mitigating safety risks. 
ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE
Climate change is a significant global challenge that requires 
governments, businesses and civil society to work together on 
cost-effective policies. We believe climate risks can and should 
be addressed while also providing the safe, affordable and 
reliable energy necessary to ensure human welfare and global 
economic development in the context of the United Nations (U.N.) 
Sustainable Development Goals.
Our business planning includes actions we will undertake to 
continue reducing our carbon footprint in keeping with the findings 
of the U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the 
aim of the Paris Agreement to limit global average temperature MESSAGE FROM THE CEO3
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTrise. As one of our key strategic actions, our Board of Directors 
and senior leadership have established 2020 reduction targets 
for greenhouse gases (GHGs) and flaring. Between 2008 and 
2019, we have reduced our Scope 1 and 2 equity GHG emissions 
by approximately 60%. In addition, we are contributing to 
technological and scientific advances designed to reduce, 
capture and store carbon emissions, including our support of 
groundbreaking work by the Salk Institute to develop plants with 
larger root systems that according to the Salk Institute are capable 
of absorbing and storing potentially billions of tons of carbon per 
year from the atmosphere. 
Our climate change strategy is closely aligned with the 
recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) established by the G20 Financial Stability 
Board. In addition, we are accounting for the cost of carbon in our 
business decisions. In 2019, we once again conducted scenario 
planning using the energy supply and demand scenarios from 
the International Energy Agency and confirmed the resilience of 
Hess’ portfolio and inventory of forward investments under the 
ambitious GHG reductions assumed within the IEA’s Sustainable 
Development Scenario. 
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 
For 87 years, our company has been dedicated to treating people 
with dignity and respect. That is why Social Responsibility is one of 
our core Hess Values. As society reflects on heartbreaking recent 
examples of racial injustice and violence in the U.S., Hess leadership 
expressed our condemnation of all forms of discrimination and 
reaffirmed our commitment to racial equality, diversity and inclusion. 
In keeping with our values, we support efforts to address societal 
inequalities and create opportunity in the communities where we 
operate with a particular focus on education. For example, in 2019, 
we extended our support of the LEAP (Learn, Engage, Advance, 
Persevere) educational program for three more years to help at-risk 
students in Houston’s Greater East End stay in school; Hess has 
contributed more than $2.1 million to the program over the past 
three years. In Malaysia, we began support for a new initiative 
called the MyKasih Foundation “Love My School” Student Bursary 
Program, which provides financial assistance to underprivileged 
children. In North Dakota, for the second year in a row, we provided 
Hess toy trucks to every elementary school in the state together 
with a science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) curriculum 
designed by Baylor College of Medicine’s Center for Educational 
Outreach. In Guyana, we are working with our joint venture partners 
to build capacity among the local workforce and supplier companies. 
In 2019, the joint venture invested more than $3 million to support 
a number of initiatives including the Centre for Local Business 
Development, which has registered more than 2,000 Guyanese 
businesses and conducted almost 3,000 training days since its 
launch in 2017. We have endorsed or formally joined a number of international 
voluntary initiatives designed to advance transparency, environmental 
protection, human rights and good governance, including our 
continued support for the U.N. Global Compact and the Global 
Compact U.S. Network, which share best practices in sustainable 
business conduct across the private sector. We are also guided in 
our activities by the U.N. Sustainable Development Goals, which 
we have mapped to issues identified as part of our materiality 
assessment described in this report. 
PEOPLE 
We shape the culture of our workplace by focusing on quality 
leadership and employee engagement, fostering diversity and 
inclusion, driving innovation and embracing Lean processes. In 
2019, we expanded our Unconscious Bias training to our U.S., 
Malaysia and Denmark managers, and through our Life at Hess 
initiative we are further weaving diversity and inclusion into our 
culture, policies and programs and cultivating a positive and 
fulfilling experience for all employees.
Our leadership team regularly shares strategic updates, explains 
the rationale for business decisions and listens to the views of our 
workforce through a robust program of employee engagement 
and communications. 
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE 
DISCLOSURE
Transparency in reporting is an important part of being a 
trusted energy partner, which is why we have been publishing 
a sustainability report since 1997 . In late 2019, we moved 
forward with a planned review and update of our EHS & SR 
strategy, starting with a materiality assessment. We expect to 
finalize the strategy update later this year, including setting goals 
and targets for our material topics post 2020. We will share results 
in our next sustainability report.
In 2019, we continued to be recognized as a leader in our industry 
for the quality of our environmental, social and governance 
performance and disclosure. We are proud of the progress 
made in executing our long term strategy in line with our purpose 
and values. We thank our employees, communities, customers, 
business partners and investors for their partnership in building a 
sustainable enterprise that makes a positive difference for all our 
stakeholders and the world around us.
John B. Hess 
Chief Executive Officer
June 2020
4311,000
Barrels of Oil Equivalent per Day 
Total Net Hydrocarbons Produced
2019 Highlights
•  Our company had another outstanding 
year offshore Guyana, where Hess has 
a 30% interest in the Stabroek Block. 
In 2019, we participated in five major 
discoveries, bringing total discoveries 
on the block to 15 as of year end 2019. 
In January 2020, the estimate of gross 
discovered recoverable resources 
for the block was increased to more 
than 8 billion barrels of oil equivalent, 
with multibillion barrels of exploration 
potential remaining.
•  The Liza Phase 1 development, offshore 
Guyana, with capacity of 120,000 gross 
barrels of oil per day, achieved first 
production in December 2019.
•  In May 2019, the second phase of the Liza 
development was sanctioned; it will have 
a production capacity of 220,000 gross 
barrels of oil per day and is expected to 
start production in 2022.
•  In the Bakken, our transition to plug and 
perf completions from our previous 60 
stage sliding sleeve design delivered a 
15% uplift in 180 day cumulative initial 
production rates and a 5–10% uplift in 
estimated ultimate recovery per well.     
At the same time, we reduced our plug 
and perf drilling and completion costs    
in 2019 to $6.8 million per well, down 
from $7.6 million in 2018.
•  In October 2019, we announced an 
oil discovery at the Esox-1 well in the 
deepwater Gulf of Mexico. The well was 
tied back to the Tubular Bells production 
facilities and commenced production in 
February 2020.
•  In December 2019, Hess achieved first 
gas on Phase 2 of the North Malay Basin 
Gas Project safely and on schedule.Hess Corporation is a leading global independent energy company 
engaged in the exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas.
 
 1,197
Million Barrels of Oil Equivalent 
Proved Reserves10.3
Years of 
Reserve Life
Production
Midstream
Developments
Exploration  Hess Portfolio of Operations
Note: For the purposes of this report, Hess Midstream LP is considered a subsidiary of Hess Corporation. Boundaries and restatements of data 
included in this report are discussed in the Approach to Reporting section.EXPLORATION
Activities are focused on the Atlantic Margin and include nonoperated interests 
offshore Guyana and Suriname and both operated and nonoperated interests 
in the Gulf of Mexico.DEVELOPMENTS
Activities are focused on nonoperated developments on the Stabroek Block, 
offshore Guyana.MIDSTREAM
Assets operated by Hess Midstream LP include a natural gas processing plant, 
a rail loading terminal and associated rail cars, a crude oil truck and pipeline 
terminal, and crude oil and natural gas gathering systems, all in North Dakota.PRODUCTION 
Operated assets include the Bakken in North Dakota; Baldpate, Conger, Penn 
State, Stampede and Tubular Bells in the Gulf of Mexico; South Arne in Denmark 
and North Malay Basin in Malaysia. Nonoperated assets include the Liza Phase 1 
development offshore Guyana, the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area, 
Shenzi and Llano in the Gulf of Mexico and the Waha Concessions in Libya.ABOUT HESS5
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTHess’ purpose is to be the world’s most trusted energy partner. By integrating sustainable business practices, corporate citizenship and 
environmental stewardship into our operations and long term strategy, we seek to help meet the world’s energy needs and address key 
challenges facing the world today, including climate change, and to create value for the benefit of all our stakeholders – our shareholders 
and business partners, our employees, the local communities and economies where we operate, and society at large. We believe our 
company is in a strong position – with our low cost of supply and high return investments – to manage through the current low oil price 
environment and to prosper when oil prices recover.
MAINTAINING FOCUS ON SOCIETY’S GREATEST CHALLENGES
Our sustainable business practices are guided by the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs, see page 21). Producing 
and enabling access to affordable, reliable energy is key to creating opportunity and raising living standards across the globe. At the 
same time, the world is faced with the significant challenge of addressing climate change and achieving the energy transition to a lower 
carbon economy. We believe the oil and gas industry is being called to help address both of these challenges.
We have set – and are on track to meet – aggressive targets for greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reductions that are consistent with 
the aim of the Paris Agreement (see page 46). Going forward, we will continue to do our part to limit GHG emissions while supporting 
sustainable global development and the transition to a lower carbon economy. CREATING VALUE FOR SOCIETY
DELIVERING VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS
The following are some of the primary ways Hess delivered value for our stakeholders in 2019. 
We generate value through the jobs we create directly as well 
as those we support indirectly – both in our supply chain and in 
the broader economy, where the energy we produce is essential 
to industries across the globe. We extend our high ethical and 
safety standards throughout our supply chain by requiring 
suppliers and contractors to abide by our Code of Business 
Conduct and Ethics and our Voluntary Commitments regarding 
labor and human rights (see page 21).
• 1,775 Hess employees globally
•   $594 million in employee wages and benefits (U.S.)  
•   9,135 hours of learning and development provided         
to employees
• $3,700 million in total supplier spend across        
3,000 suppliers  Workforce
Hess is committed to delivering long term value to our 
shareholders. We continue to successfully execute our long 
term strategy of disciplined capital allocation, focusing only 
on low cost, high return opportunities, while investing in 
our people and business. Furthermore, our efforts to lower 
our costs and our emissions intensity are aligned with the 
energy transition needed to achieve long term sustainable 
development (see page 45).
• $316 million in dividends paid to investors
• 1-year total shareholder return of 19%, first among peers 
(For peer list, see page 33 of Hess’ 2020 proxy statement.)
•   3-year total shareholder return of 27%, second 
among peersShareholders
We contribute value to society at large through the direct 
economic value we generate, the affordable energy we 
produce and our commitment to operate responsibly and 
advance sustainable development (see page 21).
• $3,159 million in capital and exploration expenditures
•   $580 million in royalties and other payments  
• $461 million in income taxes paid
• $380 million in interest expenses
• $7.7 million in social investmentsSocietyOur community investments are designed to make long 
lasting, positive impacts on the communities where we 
operate. We seek to develop the local workforce to enable 
upward mobility into higher-paying jobs in our industry and 
supply chain (see pages 19, 24, 25 and 37).
• $7.7 million in social investments, with the majority 
in Texas, North Dakota and Louisiana
• $3.1 million by our joint venture in support of the 
Guyana Centre for Local Business Development
• 6,400 hours of volunteering by our employees, with the 
majority in the U.S. (Texas, Louisiana and North Dakota)
• 98% local nationals employed in Denmark, and 
89% in Malaysia
•   95% of our total supplier spend of $3,700 million is     
on purchases made within the same country in which 
we are doing businessCommunities6In this report, we provide descriptions 
of Hess’ strategy and 2019 performance 
regarding material economic, social 
and environmental issues. Our annual 
report, U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission Form 10-K filing and 
proxy statement detail our financial and 
governance information and can be found 
on our website.
Additional sustainability and investor 
information is available at hess.com/investors
REPORTING STANDARDS
This report was prepared in accordance 
with the Core option of the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. 
Our reporting is also informed by: 
•  the Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on 
Voluntary Sustainability Reporting, which 
was jointly developed by IPIECA (the 
global oil and gas industry organization 
for environmental and social issues), 
the American Petroleum Institute and 
the International Oil and Gas Producers 
Association;
•   the United Nations (U.N.) Global 
Compact’s Ten Principles;
•   key environmental, social and 
governance ratings and scorecards;
•   recommendations from the Task 
Force on Climate-Related Financial 
Disclosures; and
•   oil and gas industry metrics from the 
Sustainability Accounting Standards 
Board (SASB).
 An index of GRI, IPIECA, SASB and U.N. Global 
Compact reporting indicators is available 
at hess.com/sustainability/sustainability-
reports/gri-index
MATERIALITY
We determined the content for this
report by applying the GRI’s reporting 
principles; for example, we considered 
our operations and performance in 
the wider context of sustainability 
issues as well as ensured stakeholder inclusiveness and completeness of 
information. Consistent with the GRI 
Standards’ materiality guidance, we 
identified and prioritized new and 
emerging issues important to our 
stakeholders. Engagement with our 
stakeholders – which include employees, 
suppliers, customers, communities, 
shareholders, government bodies, 
nongovernmental organizations, industry 
peers and academics – enables us 
to strengthen our license to operate 
and brings increased focus to our 
transparency goals. 
In 2015, we conducted a survey of select 
industry peers and a subset of priority 
external stakeholder groups to validate 
and expand upon our prior materiality 
assessments. We then supplemented the 
survey results with desktop research on 
a larger group of peers and stakeholders 
by reviewing public reports and websites 
documenting key issues for our industry, 
including key topics and disclosures 
from the GRI’s G4 Oil and Gas Sector 
Supplement. This process allowed us to 
validate that stakeholder expectations are       
being addressed.
Through that survey, as well as an annual, 
document-based assessment of key 
stakeholder perspectives and Hess’ 
operational and regulatory risks, we have 
identified the 10 most material issues for 
our company:
•  Regulatory Assurance
•   Water Management
•  Transportation Impacts
•  Emergency Preparedness  
and Response
•  Process Safety and Spills
•  Community Engagement
•  Climate Change and Greenhouse  
Gas (GHG) Emissions
•  Stakeholder Engagement•  Transparency in Business Conduct
•   Human Rights and Security
These material issues have informed 
our environment, health, safety and 
social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy 
and helped to define the boundaries 
of this report.
 See reporting boundaries for each of these 
issues at hess.com/sustainability/approach-
to-reporting/boundaries-for-material-issues
While we have been validating these 
issues on an annual basis since 2015, 
in 2019 we engaged a third-party 
consultant to help us refresh our 
materiality assessment and update our 
EHS & SR strategy. The approach used 
for the materiality assessment, which 
was completed in early 2020, is 
consistent with approaches and 
guidance provided by leading standards 
bodies, including the GRI, IPIECA and 
ISO 26000; it also considers the SASB 
materiality profile for the oil and gas 
industry as an additional reference point.
For the materiality assessment, we 
first developed an initial list of potential 
sustainability topics through desktop 
research. This research involved reviewing 
public reports and websites – including 
those of our oil and gas industry peers 
and other important stakeholders – that 
document key issues for our industry. 
We then validated and prioritized the 
topics through a stakeholder engagement 
process, which included a survey and 
workshop to obtain internal viewpoints 
and interviews with a sampling of key 
external stakeholders.
Through this exercise, we confirmed 
that the key issues driving our current 
EHS & SR strategy are still relevant. 
We also found that certain issues have 
been receiving more or less stakeholder 
emphasis over the past five years. 
We are currently working to validate APPROACH TO REPORTING7
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTthe results of the materiality assessment 
through benchmarking and additional 
internal workshops. That process will 
aid in developing an updated EHS & 
SR strategy, including setting goals and 
targets for our material topics. We plan 
to share our plan forward (for post 2020) 
in next year’s sustainability report.
BOUNDARY SETTING
Included within the scope of this report are 
the facilities and assets operated by Hess 
Corporation and our subsidiaries during 
calendar year 2019, unless otherwise 
indicated. Data presented are gross 
figures from operated facilities, unless 
specified otherwise. 
We report GHG emissions on both 
an operated and equity share basis in 
accordance with the GRI G4 Oil and 
Gas Sector Supplement and the IPIECA  
Petroleum Industry Guidelines for 
Reporting GHG Emissions (3rd edition, 
2015), as well as IPIECA’s 2016 report 
Estimating Petroleum Industry Value Chain 
(Scope 3) Greenhouse Gas Emissions. We 
report social investments for our operated 
assets, joint ventures and nonoperated 
facilities in which we hold a significant 
interest. Our workforce metrics include 
data for contractors whose hours we track.
See our expanded performance data at  
hess.com/sustainability/performance-data/ 
key-sustainability-metrics
RESTATEMENTS
We believe our approach to restating data 
complies with the GRI Standards’ principle 
of comparability and specific disclosure 
regarding restatements of information, 
as well as IPIECA guidance. For GHG 
emissions, in cases of acquisitions and 
divestitures and other source ownership 
and control changes, we adjust our base 
year emissions if the change exceeds 
10% of the original base year emissions 
total. The exact timing of the adjustment 
depends on several factors, as described in the Hess GHG Inventory Protocol. We 
also review and adjust targets included as 
part of our annual incentive plan formula 
to account for divestitures as needed. In 
2017 and 2018, this included restating our 
targets and associated annual metrics for 
severe safety and environmental incident 
rates to account for the Permian, Equatorial 
Guinea and Utica divestitures.
Access the Hess GHG Inventory Protocol at 
hess.com/sustainability/climate-change-
energy
INTERNAL QUALITY ASSURANCE
Our internal information systems promote 
the centralized collection of data from 
Hess operated and joint venture assets 
around the world. In order to evaluate 
accuracy and reliability, we conduct 
quality assurance/quality control reviews 
and validation of both aggregated and 
facility-level data. Individual numbers in the charts, tables and text may not 
precisely sum to the total amounts shown 
due to rounding. All currency references 
in the report are in U.S. dollars.
EXTERNAL ASSURANCE
This report, including our sustainability 
data and self-declared GRI “in 
accordance” status, was assured 
by ERM Certification and Verification 
Services (see page 62). This external 
review helps to ensure consistent and 
objective data collection and reporting 
of our sustainability performance.
In addition to providing assurance in 
relation to our sustainability report, 
ERM Certification and Verification
Services also conducts a separate 
verification of the GHG emissions data 
provided in the report and in our CDP 
Climate Change response.
Midstream Operations, North Dakota8Through continued implementation of our environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy, we are improving how we 
understand and manage nontechnical risks in our day-to-day operations while addressing the material sustainability issues facing Hess and 
the oil and gas industry at large. Elements of our EHS & SR strategy are included in the table below, along with our key accomplishments in 
2019 and goals for 2020 and beyond; the goals support select targets and metrics that we have established to measure how effectively we 
are implementing our strategy. 
In line with our continued commitment to operating sustainably, we have proceeded with a planned review and update of our EHS & SR 
strategy starting with a materiality assessment in late 2019. We expect to finalize the strategy update later this year, including setting goals 
and targets for our material topics post 2020. We will share the results in our next sustainability report.
HOW WE OPERATE
CATEGORY 2019 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2019 GOALS FOR 2020+DISCUSSION  
(PAGE #)
Regulatory 
AssuranceComplete assurance on the embedded 
regulatory compliance system, 
including standard work evaluation 
and equipment repair root cause 
analysis; begin pursuing a compliance 
standard for the enterprise*Conducted a Corporate Audit Department 
(CAD) Tier I assurance review on the regulatory 
register and compliance communication tools; 
began drafting the compliance standardRevisit the draft compliance standard as part 
of the Hess Operational Management System 
(HOMS) streamlining exercise; continue to 
conduct Tier II assurance activities on routine, 
high volume compliance obligations in 2020*14, 28, 58
Continue providing our assets with 
routine updates and discussions 
on emerging regulatory risks and 
changes through the use of existing 
communication methods and 
operating rhythms*Monitored emerging regulatory risks through 
participation in a number of industry association 
working groups (e.g., American Petroleum 
Institute, IPIECA, etc.) and communicated key 
information back to our operated and select 
nonoperated assets Continue providing our assets with routine 
updates and discussions on emerging 
regulatory risks and changes through the
use of existing communication methods 
and operating rhythms in 2020*17–18
Transparency  
in Business 
ConductContinue to refine our sustainability 
disclosures to align with stakeholder 
expectationsPublished our 2018 Sustainability Report with 
the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards’ 
Core “in accordance” option and included 
disclosure in alignment with the 
recommendations of the Task Force on 
Climate-Related Financial Disclosures; included 
indicators from the Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board’s oil and gas industry metrics 
in our GRI Content IndexContinue to refine our sustainability disclosures 
to align with stakeholder expectations in 20206–7, 40
Implement a third-party online 
due diligence system and conduct 
compliance risk assessment and 
analysis on select assetsCompleted selection and implementation of
an enhanced third-party online due diligence 
system; completed a compliance risk assessment 
and analysis of key exploration assetsImprove third-party due diligence policy and 
enterprise procedures to enhance coverage 
and reduce redundancies; improve and 
diversify the compliance training curriculum 
in 202016–17
Supply  
Chain and 
Contractor 
ManagementContinue to develop model contracts 
for key spend areas to enhance risk 
management; further evaluate the 
supplier relationship and performance 
management processes as part of the 
HOMS initiative Completed six model contracts and made 
significant progress on five others, in areas such 
as logistics, exploration and technology, and this 
work is ongoing; engaged face to face with key 
strategic suppliers to set expectations, develop 
relationships, build trust and influence behaviors Continue to deepen relationships with strategic 
suppliers focused on mutual collaboration; 
further revise, create and implement policies 
for supplier relationship management; develop 
category strategies that consider potential 
emission reductions in 2020 and beyond 8, 18–19
Management 
SystemsContinue expanding Lean deployment 
across Hess, including development 
of new embedded Lean leaders (ELLs) 
in assets and central support functions 
and further development of those 
already trained; continue to use a 
structured Lean approach to identify 
“Take Work Out” opportunitiesCertified almost 50 employees as ELLs 
enterprisewide; existing ELLs continued local 
business improvements and provided coaching 
to other employees and contractors in their work 
areas; conducted a “Take Work Out 2: Breakout” 
initiative, which resulted in about 200 
improvement opportunities, with five 
of those selected for implementationDevelop a framework for further integrating 
Lean and innovation into the Hess culture, 
including revamping and expanding the suite of 
training and coaching tools to include Lean and 
innovation, training new embedded Lean and 
innovation leaders and further improving the 
skills and effectiveness of current ELLs; 
continue to use a structured Lean approach to 
take out unnecessary work and foster creative 
thinking and innovation in 2020 and beyond16
Continue progressing the EHS global 
standards project through 2020Rolled the EHS global standards into HOMS; 
continued work on the EHS standards, extending 
the target for implementation from 2020 to 2021 
to allow for HOMS integrationContinue progressing the EHS global 
standards effort across all assets to meet
the 2021 target for full implementation14
Continue to measure effective EHS & 
SR strategy implementation through 
2020; begin a refresh of the strategy 
in 2019 through an updated 
materiality assessment*Continued tracking individual EHS & SR 
initiatives through project-specific work plans 
as part of our business operating rhythm; 
conducted an updated materiality assessment 
(completed in January 2020)Monitor strategic actions from the 2015 EHS 
& SR strategy through the end of the year; 
develop an updated EHS & SR strategy, 
including the next set of strategic initiatives 
and forward-looking goals, based on the 
2019–2020 materiality assessment*6–11
*Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy.PROGRESS AND GOALS9
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Offshore Operations, Gulf of Thailand
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
CATEGORY 2019 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2019 GOALS FOR 2020+DISCUSSION  
(PAGE #)
Governance 
and 
Management 
ApproachMonitor and assess ongoing social 
investments to help ensure focus and 
alignment on areas that overlap with
the United Nations’ Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs)*Identified eight SDGs that are most 
aligned with Hess’ material issues; 
included this mapping exercise in 
our 2018 Sustainability ReportConsider avenues for further aligning 
our social responsibility strategy with 
applicable SDGs; assess the availability 
of tools or metrics to measure the 
impacts of our investments on the 
SDGs in 2020 and beyond*21
Community  
and 
Stakeholder 
EngagementInstitute a semiannual cadence to review 
stakeholder outreach and refresh 
stakeholder mapping; increase focus on 
asset retirement obligations (AROs) in 
North Dakota in cooperation with 
regulators*Instituted a regular operating rhythm  
with semiannual reviews for stakeholder 
planning; continued to deliver on our 
commitment to a sustainable ARO 
program in North Dakota by plugging   
40 wells and completing reclamation 
activities on 95 sites Identify communities in areas of operation 
most severely affected by the COVID-19 
pandemic and pursue engagement or 
investment opportunities to mitigate 
health and economic impacts; maintain 
the ARO program in North Dakota; identify 
opportunities for social investment in 
Guyana focused on public health and 
education in 2020 and beyond* 10, 22–24
Social Risk 
ManagementContinue to monitor potential human 
rights risks and conduct risk assessments 
if needed based on activity levels in 2019 
and beyond*Incorporated human rights risk 
assessment into Hess’ emerging risks 
strategy and planning reviewsParticipate in sector-specific and broader 
industry workshops and symposiums on 
human rights best practices; implement 
learnings in operated assets deemed  
as higher risk in 2020 and beyond*21–22, 24
Continue to conduct human rights 
training as needed based on identified 
risks in 2019 and beyond*No training conducted in 2019Develop an enterprisewide compliance 
training module on human rights in 2020*22, 24
Continue to track the number of 
employees and contractors completing 
human rights training at high-risk assets, 
as well as the percentage of new 
contracts with human rights clauses*Continued to monitor contracts to confirm 
inclusion of human rights clauses and 
alignment with Hess policiesContinue to track implementation  
of these efforts in 2020 and beyond*19, 24
*Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy.10PROGRESS AND GOALS
SAFETY AND HEALTH
CATEGORY 2019 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2019 GOALS FOR 2020+DISCUSSION  
(PAGE #)
Process 
Safety  
and SpillsContinue to drive progress in critical 
maintenance compliance by expanding 
our annual incentive plan metric from 
safety critical equipment only to include 
all equipment with performance standards 
in our work order system*Surpassed our target of 98% inspection 
and testing of integrity critical equipment, 
with approximately 15,000 critical 
performance standard assurance test 
work orders completedContinue reinforcement of critical 
maintenance compliance through our 
annual incentive plan metric in 2020*30
Complete implementation of "bow tie" 
diagrams at our North Malay Basin   
asset and pursue an alternative 
barrier management approach at 
our Denmark asset*Implemented a bow tie program at 
the offshore platform at our North 
Malay Basin asset and progressed 
implementation at the floating storage 
and offloading vessel at that same asset; 
progressed validation of bow ties within 
the safety case at our Denmark assetContinue bow tie program implementation 
at our North Malay Basin and Denmark 
assets; commence rollout of the electronic 
Management of Change system at 
selected operated assets; continue 
collaboration with industry groups on       
a set of process safety fundamentals        
in 2020*31
Continue to perform assurance activities 
according to the 2019 Board-approved 
CAD Tier I audit plan and in line with our 
tiered EHS assurance program; continue 
to develop our enhanced competency 
assurance and learning (CAL) strategy, 
with phased implementation slated to 
begin in 2020*Completed audits and consulting 
activities per the Board-approved 
CAD Tier I audit plan and in line with 
the tiered EHS assurance program; 
mapped certain job profiles with 
safety critical competencies and began 
developing the enhanced CAL strategyThrough 2022, focus competency efforts 
on continued implementation of local 
competency programs and processes at 
our operated assets; beginning in 2022, 
restart efforts to build a standardized 
enterprisewide approach to CAL, define 
safety critical job profiles across the 
enterprise and integrate CAL with HOMS 
and our learning management system*27–28, 30
Occupational 
Health  
and SafetyMeet a workforce total recordable 
incident rate (TRIR) target of 0.28           
or belowDid not achieve our TRIR target due 
to an increase in our contractor TRIR; 
pursued several initiatives aimed at 
improving contractor safety performance, 
as discussed further in the Safety and 
Health sectionAchieve a 10% reduction from our 2019 
actual workforce TRIR in 202029–30
Achieve a 10% reduction from our 2018 
actual severe and significant safety 
incident (SSSI) rateDid not achieve our goal, as our 2019 SSSI 
rate was slightly above our target of 0.46; 
however, took swift action after identifying 
an upward trend in this rate early in the 
year and ultimately achieved a 33% 
reduction in our SSSI rate from April 
to DecemberAchieve a 10% reduction from our 2019 
actual SSSI rate in 202029–30
OUR PEOPLE
CATEGORY 2019 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2019 GOALS FOR 2020+DISCUSSION  
(PAGE #)
Employment 
PracticesContinue to build high quality leaders 
by refreshing and formalizing the 
resources available to them on 
topics such as inclusion and 
diversity, innovation, Lean and 
coaching and feedback trainingIntroduced the Hess Way of Leadership 
Series to level-set knowledge and 
capabilities with employee career 
development, rewards and recognition, 
policies and practices; formed task 
forces focused on enhancing our 
Lean and innovative culture Reinforce the Hess Way of Leadership 
by providing practical tools, training and 
guidance; evaluate the flexible working 
arrangements that were employed during 
the COVID-19 pandemic as part of normal 
work practice in 202010, 36–37
Introduce a revised talent philosophy 
and associated succession planning 
technology more broadly, beginning 
with senior leaders and then cascading 
to other managersImplemented an improved talent and 
succession planning process by engaging 
senior leaders in conducting health of 
discipline talent reviews deeper into 
the organizationRefine practices to assure inclusive, high 
quality succession planning; leverage 
technology to improve our hiring practices 
in 202036–37
Expand diversity (Unconscious Bias) 
training across our locationsConducted Unconscious Bias workshops 
for all leaders globallyContinue focus on removing unconscious 
bias from employment practices, 
including recruiting and talent 
development, in 202035
*Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy.
  11
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTCLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY
CATEGORY 2019 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2019 GOALS FOR 2020+DISCUSSION  
(PAGE #)
Risk 
ManagementDisclose the results of our portfolio-
specific carbon asset risk scenario 
planning exercise; incorporate scenario 
planning into our regular business 
planning cycle*Conducted our second portfolio-specific 
carbon asset risk scenario planning 
exercise, which is now integrated into our 
planning cycle on an annual basis, using 
scenarios from the International Energy 
Agency’s 2019 World Energy OutlookContinue to evaluate carbon asset risk 
through this annual exercise in 2020 
and beyond*42–45
Strategy, 
Metrics  
and TargetsContinue to invest in additional 
midstream infrastructure and 
increase compression capacity; 
complete construction and 
commissioning of the joint venture 
gas plant (Little Missouri Four) 
operated by Targa ResourcesThrough our subsidiary, Hess Midstream LP, 
partnered with Targa Resources to build 
the $200 million Little Missouri Four gas 
plant, which came online in August 2019, 
and built out additional gas compression 
capacity, which will significantly expand 
our ability to bring more natural gas to 
marketContinue to pursue additional natural gas 
processing and compression capacity; 
continue planning for the Tioga Gas 
Plant turnaround and expansion project 
in 202049
Continue to make progress toward our 
2020 goal to achieve a 25% reduction in 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 
(i.e., tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent 
(CO2e) per thousand barrels of oil 
equivalent (BOE)), versus our 2014 
baseline* Reduced our GHG emissions intensity by 
26% compared with our 2014 baseline 
(ahead of our 2020 target)Achieve a 25% reduction in GHG 
emissions intensity (tonnes of CO2e 
per thousand BOE) by 2020, versus 
our 2014 baseline*46–47
Continue to improve performance 
related to reducing methane emissions, 
through ONE Future sectoral targets*On track to achieve ONE Future targets 
through planned flaring reductions, our 
leak detection and repair program and 
the phaseout of high bleed pneumatic 
controllers in North DakotaContinue to make progress against the 
ONE Future sectoral 2025 targets*51
Continue to make progress toward our 
2020 goal to reduce flaring intensity 
(standard cubic feet per BOE) by 50%, 
versus our 2014 baseline*Reduced flaring intensity by 35% 
compared with our 2014 baselineAchieve a 50% reduction in flaring 
intensity (standard cubic feet per BOE) 
by 2020, versus our 2014 baseline*48–50
ENVIRONMENT
CATEGORY 2019 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2019 GOALS FOR 2020+DISCUSSION  
(PAGE #)
Water 
ManagementDevelop a risk assessment toolbox 
for offshore water discharge in 2019; 
continue to work toward automated 
data collection in 2019 and beyond*Completed baseline mapping for offshore 
water discharge and finalized a data 
migration plan for the automation of 
data collection in future yearsContinue to baseline the characteristics 
of emergent contaminants and chemicals 
considered “highly toxic” in 2020*11, 53, 55–56
Conduct water risk assessments for the 
South Arne and North Malay Basin assets 
and complete a water risk ranking and 
resource evaluation (e.g., oil recovery 
per water use)*Completed a water data mapping exercise 
at South Arne and initiated one at North 
Malay Basin (expected to be finalized 
in 2020); conducted two pilot studies 
focused on tracking and treating 
produced water in the BakkenComplete the water data mapping 
exercise at North Malay Basin and a 
chemical analysis at South Arne in 2020; 
participate, through the National Alliance 
for Water Innovation, in the U.S. 
Department of Energy’s five year 
program for research and development 
and mapping of water treatment 
technologies in 2020 and beyond*11, 53, 55–56
Process 
Safety  
and SpillsAchieve a 10% reduction from our 2018 
actual severe and significant environmental 
incident rateSurpassed our target, achieving a 51% 
reduction in our severe and significant 
environmental incident rate, compared 
with 2018Achieve a 10% reduction from our  
2019 actual severe and significant 
environmental incident rate in 202011, 57–58
*Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy.
Note: Beginning in early 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic demanded a significant amount of our resources and attention as well as a shift to a different and more complex 
working situation for our employees and contractors. As a result of these unanticipated challenges during the year, it is possible that some of our initiatives may change in 
terms of scope and timing. Our expectations for implementation timelines are therefore based on the information available at the time of publication of this report and may 
continue to shift depending on public health and market conditions later in the year.    12
Production Operations, North Dakota13
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Hess is committed to the highest 
standards of corporate citizenship. 
We aim to help meet the world’s 
growing energy needs in a way that 
protects the health and safety of our 
people, safeguards the environment and 
contributes to the sustainability of the 
communities where we operate, while 
also delivering long term value to our 
shareholders and other stakeholders. 
The six Hess Values support our purpose 
to be the world’s most trusted energy 
partner. Our Code of Business Conduct 
and Ethics (Code of Conduct), Social 
Responsibility (SR) Policy, Human 
Rights Policy, and Environment, Health 
and Safety (EHS) Policy build on our 
Values to define internal expectations 
for sustainable management and 
performance at Hess. We apply these 
principles to key company processes and 
initiatives, as described in this section.
GOVERNANCE
The highest level of oversight at Hess 
rests with the Board of Directors, which 
has four standing committees: the Audit 
Committee, the Compensation and 
Management Development Committee, 
the Corporate Governance and Nominating 
Committee and the EHS Committee.
    See Hess’ committee charters and Corporate 
Governance Guidelines at hess.com/investors
Board Accountability
Hess’ Board is actively engaged in 
overseeing the company’s sustainability 
strategy and performance, working 
alongside senior management to evaluate 
sustainability risks and global scenarios 
in making strategic decisions, including 
those related to climate change. Our 
independent Chairman periodically 
accompanies our CEO and other members of senior management to 
meet with investors to solicit shareholder 
views on various topics, including EHS 
& SR. (For more information on Board 
involvement in climate change-related 
issues, see the Climate Change and 
Energy section, page 41.)
The Board’s Audit Committee oversees 
the integrity of the company’s financial 
statements, financial reporting practices, 
systems of internal accounting and 
financial and disclosure controls, and  
other financial matters such as tax 
planning, compliance and reporting for 
income taxes. It also oversees compliance 
and risk management.
The EHS Committee was originally 
established in 2013 as a subcommittee of 
the Audit Committee; in June 2019, the 
subcommittee was elevated to a fourth 
standalone committee of the Board, 
underpinning our commitment to evaluate 
sustainability risks at the highest level. 
The EHS Committee leads the Board’s 
oversight of Hess’ sustainability practices, 
working with the full Board and senior 
management so that sustainability risks 
are taken into account when making 
strategic decisions. The EHS Committee 
assists the Board in identifying, evaluating 
and monitoring EHS strategies and 
material risks with the potential to affect 
the people, environment or communities 
where we operate or our company’s 
business activities, performance or 
reputation. The EHS Committee makes 
recommendations to the full Board on 
policies, programs and practices to 
address such strategies and risks and 
monitors the company’s compliance with 
these policies, programs and practices. 
The EHS Committee also reviews emergency response planning procedures 
for EHS events and EHS legal and 
regulatory matters that could affect the 
company’s business and operations.
The EHS Committee met four times 
in 2019, and each committee member 
attended at least 75% of the meetings. 
Our Vice President of EHS met regularly 
with the EHS Committee and the Chair 
of the committee in 2019 to prioritize 
actions on a number of topics, including 
EHS performance and strategic priorities; 
enterprise risk management; regulatory 
matters; environmental, social and 
governance reporting; climate change 
strategic actions; and progress against 
greenhouse gas and flaring targets.
Each member of the EHS Committee 
is independent and qualified under the 
standards established by applicable law, 
stock exchange listing standards and 
Hess’ Corporate Governance Guidelines. 
Committee members have extensive oil 
and gas industry experience, including 
operations, research and development, 
and financial expertise. To supplement 
the expertise of EHS Committee members 
and the full Board of Directors, Hess 
brings in outside subject matter experts to 
brief members on current and developing 
issues relevant to our business, such as 
climate change. Board members, together 
with our executive leadership, have also 
participated in field visits to Hess 
operated and nonoperated assets to 
better understand our key EHS strategies 
and risks. In 2019, committee members 
visited our Bakken asset to engage 
with the Hess workforce and observe 
how Hess is managing and mitigating 
EHS risks and to highlight Lean and 
technology-focused initiatives in the field.HOW WE OPERATE14Executive Oversight
The company is managed by an Executive 
Committee, which is composed of Hess’ 
most senior executives and chaired by 
our Chief Executive Officer. The Executive 
Committee focuses on operational, 
strategic, financial, EHS and social issues 
and is the highest approval body before 
the Board. The Executive Committee 
holds regularly scheduled meetings, and 
our Chief Operating Officer chairs an 
operational subcommittee of the Executive 
Committee that also meets routinely to 
discuss these and other matters.
     See information on our approach to 
sustainable tax policy at hess.com/
sustainability/how-we-operate/tax-practices
KEY INITIATIVES
We continue to evolve and advance 
our management systems in a manner 
that aligns with Hess’ portfolio and 
organizational structure. As part of 
this process, in 2018 we reorganized 
into teams of functional leaders (e.g., 
EHS, Wells, Human Resources, Supply 
Chain), which helps us continue to 
improve oversight and assurance across 
the company and provide expertise in 
key functional areas within each asset. 
The Head of each functional area is 
responsible for overseeing activities in 
that area across the company, verifying 
that relevant standards are applied as 
appropriate and working with each 
asset to optimize safety, quality, 
delivery and cost. 
The Heads of each function are supported 
by technical authorities (TAs) – many of 
whom are embedded directly into our 
assets. Together, these individuals form 
the “Heads of” and Technical Authority 
(HTA) Network, which supports operations 
across the company. This group meets 
monthly to support enterprisewide 
initiatives, promote transparency of 
activities and optimize synergies across 
our functions and assets.In 2019, under the leadership of the HTA 
Network, we completed development 
of the Hess Operational Management 
System (HOMS), a single, enterprisewide 
system that houses and integrates the 
various standards, procedures and 
other governance documents in use 
throughout our operations. HOMS 
establishes a common operational 
framework outlining how we aim to 
address risk management, process 
safety, environmental responsibility 
and management of personnel and 
contractors, as well as the efficient 
and reliable design and operation of our 
assets. A HOMS manual supports HOMS 
implementation and provides direction 
on how the management system guides 
and integrates our work across functions 
and locations. Ultimately, we expect 
that HOMS will help us to manage risks 
associated with a changing organization; 
coordinate technical expertise, standards 
and processes across the organization; 
and align asset-level operations with 
enterprisewide corporate governance 
documents and business priorities. 
Ongoing assurance and continuous 
improvement will continue to be 
central aspects of how we manage our 
organization, including through audits 
and assessments of our implementation 
of and compliance with HOMS. Key 
operations and processes will be regularly 
reviewed based on assessed risk and 
compliance requirements.
In 2020, we are streamlining Hess’ 
enterprise- and asset-level safety and 
operational standards, procedures and 
other governance documents as part of 
our implementation of HOMS.
In support of HOMS, we have continued 
implementation of EHS standards that 
formalize enterprisewide expectations 
and accountabilities for key areas of 
EHS risk and performance and support 
a globally consistent approach to operational excellence. Due to the 
necessary migration of these standards 
from our prior EHS & SR Management 
System to HOMS, we have extended 
the deadline for full implementation 
of the phase III standards (and any 
other standard with an approved delay 
dispensation) from 2020 to 2021.
     Additional detail can be found at hess.com/
sustainability/how-we-operate/key-initiatives 
KEY ENTERPRISE PROCESSES
Several key processes in our company help 
to identify and mitigate risks in potential, 
new and existing operations; achieve 
operational excellence; and evaluate 
investment opportunities.
While these processes are focused on our 
operated assets, it is important to note 
that we also review potential risks in Hess’ 
nonoperated assets. We generally prioritize 
four main objectives for nonoperated 
assets: making a positive contribution 
to local communities; influencing project 
outcomes by focusing on issues with the 
greatest potential impact; establishing 
governance structures and project 
assurance plans; and documenting and 
internally sharing high-value lessons 
learned. As these assets represent a 
significant portion of Hess’ capital spend, 
we have continued to conduct targeted, 
high-level reviews of nonoperated activities, 
including production operations, facilities 
and designs.
Enterprise Risk Management
Hess applies a comprehensive, 
standardized approach to identifying 
and managing risks of all types across 
our operations. Our enterprise risk 
management (ERM) program, which 
includes consideration of EHS & SR 
risks, provides a framework that enables 
Hess’ Board of Directors and executive 
leadership to work together to strengthen 
the consistency of risk consideration in 
making business decisions. Our Board HOW WE OPERATE15
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTof Directors has ultimate oversight over 
the ERM process and is charged with 
understanding the key risks affecting the 
company’s business and how those risks 
can be managed. Annually, our Chief 
Risk Officer (CRO) provides the Board’s 
Audit Committee with a comprehensive 
review of Hess’ enterprise-level risks, 
the status of the ERM program and risk 
management strategies utilized under 
our corporate risk policy. The status 
of EHS & SR risks and mitigations are 
also discussed in detail at the Board’s 
EHS Committee meetings. Periodically, 
our Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and 
CRO provide an update to the Board 
on enterprise-level risks, including the 
relative risks of assets and projects 
within the portfolio. The CFO and CRO 
oversee day-to-day implementation of the 
ERM process, including developing and 
verifying compliance with relevant policies 
and standards.
Hess’ ERM process is used to develop 
a holistic risk profile for each asset and 
major capital project, drawing input from 
subject matter experts, performance 
data, incident investigations, lessons 
learned and recent audits. In these risk assessments, we identify risks and 
assess their likelihood and potential 
impact to people, the environment, 
our reputation and our business.
Our Risk Management Standard, which 
applies to all assets and major capital 
projects, helps to align and integrate risk 
management across the company. The 
standard establishes a risk framework, 
accountabilities and expectations across 
the organization to provide a consistent and 
integrated risk management process across 
our assets, projects and business functions. 
As part of our ERM process, all assets  
are required to have a risk assessment  
in place that is refreshed at least annually.  
In addition, major capital projects and new 
development opportunities that go through 
the value assurance process (described 
at right) must have risk assessments 
completed prior to each value assurance 
stage gate. Risk registers and reports that 
are generated through these processes 
are reviewed and updated periodically as 
part of asset and major project operating 
rhythm meetings.
We also require that functional-level 
risk assessments be included in each asset’s or project’s risk plan. Examples 
include identifying and validating concept 
selection or confirming the technical basis 
of design for a facility.
Climate risks are considered throughout 
both enterprise and functional risk 
assessments from the perspective of 
potential financial, physical, reputational 
and regulatory impacts. Further 
discussion of Hess’ approach to 
managing climate risks can be found in 
the Climate Change and Energy section.
Value Assurance
Major investment opportunities are 
assessed through our value assurance 
process. This process helps to provide 
increased objectivity in our investment 
decisions by including those who are not 
directly involved with the asset or project 
in internal reviews. Following this process 
helps to provide assurance that our capital 
allocation and portfolio management 
decisions are based on independently 
reviewed, high quality input.
The value assurance reviews are risk based 
and focus on economics, subsurface and 
facility design, safety, environmental and 
socioeconomic considerations, regulatory 
VALUE ASSURANCE PROCESS
IMPLEMENT
•  Deliver refined optionREFINE
 •  Optimize preferred 
option
•   Develop execution 
plan
• Allocate budgetSCREEN
•  Evaluate and rank 
options
•   Reduce risks and 
uncertainties
•   Select preferred 
optionFRAME
•Determine objectives
•   Confirm technical and 
economic viabilityOPERATE
•  Meet/exceed 
sanction metrics
•  Meet Production 
Excellence  
expectations
FRAMING WORKSHOPS, VALUE ASSURANCE REVIEWS
OPERABILITY AND OPERATIONAL READINESS REVIEWS
PEER ASSISTS AND TECHNICAL/FUNCTIONAL REVIEWSPOST-PROJECT RE VIEWSDECISION
DECISIONDECISION
DECISIONINCEPTION                           OPTIMIZED VALUE16requirements and other technical and 
nontechnical risks. In order to evaluate the 
potential impact of carbon cost on project 
economics, we apply either actual carbon 
pricing where a regulatory framework 
for such exists, or a sustained $40 per 
tonne cost of carbon to the forecasted 
greenhouse gas emissions from significant 
new projects.
Through our value assurance process 
(see figure on the previous page) we 
bring in technical experts from across the 
company, chosen based on how their 
skills and experience contribute to the 
project under review. Including experts 
from across the organization creates 
learning opportunities for participants to 
take back to their respective assets and 
functions and apply to future assurance 
processes.
The value assurance process is closely 
aligned with our ERM process so that we 
can apply consistent methodologies and 
criteria to risks across our company.
Due Diligence
Our due diligence processes help us 
assess nontechnical, aboveground risks 
when evaluating opportunities, including 
those in new geographies. The process 
also helps the project team mitigate 
identified risks once a commitment is 
made to proceed. Ultimately, the process 
is complementary to our ERM and 
value assurance workflows, utilizing the 
necessary information at key decision 
points in our investment and project 
planning processes.
    See more detail on these processes at hess.
com/sustainability/how-we-operate/key-
enterprise-processes 
Lean
For more than a decade, we have been 
implementing Lean principles across our 
operations to eliminate waste, improve 
reliability, drive continuous improvement 
and create value for our shareholders, business partners, employees and other 
stakeholders. We have encouraged 
our leaders to learn fundamental Lean 
skills and then apply them to business 
problems. The leaders then coach and 
develop employees and contractors to 
generate solutions themselves. The result 
is our distinctive Lean culture in which 
continuous improvement comes from 
the entire workforce – our “army of 
problem solvers.”
In 2019, we conducted a follow up to 
the prior year’s “Take Work Out” initiative, 
which helped to reduce unnecessary 
tasks; the new initiative, called “Breakout,” 
helped us to identify and address 
persistent pain points in efficiency that 
require multifunctional or cross-team 
efforts to resolve. The initiative resulted 
in about 200 proposed improvement 
opportunities. Senior management 
selected the five opportunities with the 
greatest potential for positive impact, 
and those five will be the initial focus of 
improvement efforts.
To support the day-to-day implementation 
of Lean principles, we use a standard 
process for selecting, training and 
developing embedded Lean leaders 
(ELLs), who, after completing this 
process, help to train their teams in 
basic Lean skills, improve processes 
and eliminate waste in their respective 
work areas. We certified approximately 
50 additional employees as ELLs in 
2019, bringing the total number of ELLs 
to about 200 enterprisewide. ELLs 
participated in multiple kaizen (Japanese 
for “improvement”) workshops held across 
our value stream to provide sustainable 
improvements to business results for their 
respective assets or functions. 
BUSINESS CONDUCT
The Hess Code of Conduct outlines 
the business conduct and behaviors 
we expect of our employees, officers, 
directors and contractors. Any individual or company working on behalf of Hess 
or our subsidiaries is expected to follow 
similar principles. Failure to comply 
with the Code of Conduct and related 
policies, or applicable laws, may result in 
disciplinary action, including termination. 
All of our key compliance policies 
and procedures are described in our 
Code of Conduct. These policies and 
procedures are communicated to and 
available for all employees globally. Our 
Global Compliance team establishes, 
maintains and enforces the compliance 
policies and procedures, as well as other 
processes and initiatives to prevent and 
detect compliance violations. Our aim 
is to promote an organizational culture 
that is committed to ethical conduct 
and compliance with the law. The Chief 
Compliance Officer updates the Audit 
Committee of the Board of Directors 
on a regular basis.
To continuously enforce compliance 
controls and embrace best practices,  
our Global Compliance team focuses  
on internal investigations and anti-bribery 
and anti-corruption (ABAC) programs, 
as well as other enterprise programs 
and systems. In 2019, our Global 
Compliance team investigated all issues 
and allegations referred to the team 
through the various channels available to 
our workforce, including our dedicated 
compliance hotline. In addition, Global 
Compliance continued to manage the 
company’s automated approval systems 
– which are used to review and approve 
higher risk transactions and relationships 
with our business partners – including 
our system for the disclosure, review 
and approval or mitigation of potential 
conflicts of interest. Throughout 2019, 
Global Compliance also continued to work 
with key functions across the company, 
including Legal, EHS, Human Resources 
and the Corporate Audit Department, to 
review potential issues and implement 
appropriate remediation plans.HOW WE OPERATE17
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Providing employees with effective training 
on the Hess Values is a key element of 
strengthening our culture      to ensure 
that employees understand and embody 
the Values in their daily work. As part of 
this effort, our Global Compliance team 
has developed in-depth online trainings 
on our Code of Conduct and our ABAC 
Policy and Procedure. Delivered through an 
enhanced, modular platform that highlights 
key concepts, the trainings include 
examples of how employees can translate 
the Hess Values into on-the-job actions. 
All employees who are active at the time 
training is launched, as well as all new 
employees and certain contracted staff, are 
required to take these trainings and certify 
compliance with the Code of Conduct and 
other applicable policies and procedures.
The Global Compliance team conducts 
audits and ongoing monitoring to help 
ensure that all employees complete these 
online trainings. At year end 2019, 98% 
of active employees had completed the 
Code of Conduct training, and 99% had 
completed the ABAC training. POLITICAL ENGAGEMENT
HessPAC 
HessPAC serves as the political action 
committee (PAC) of Hess’ U.S. employees 
and acts in full compliance with U.S. federal 
and state campaign finance and election 
laws. HessPAC is used to promote the 
interests of Hess Corporation. In 2019, 
HessPAC continued in its third full cycle 
of operation, generated approximately 
$74,000 in member contributions and 
distributed $73,500 in political contributions 
in a bipartisan manner to candidates at the 
federal level.
HessPAC publicly discloses all of its 
contributions to political candidates, parties 
and committees. Its federal contributions 
are accessible via the U.S. Federal Election 
Commission’s website (www.fec.gov). In 
2019, we did not make any state-level 
contributions from HessPAC, but if we 
do in the future, these will be publicly 
available on the appropriate website of 
each respective state where HessPAC is 
active. As legally permitted, Hess corporate 
funds were used to provide administrative support for HessPAC. Both direct and 
indirect corporate political contributions 
are prohibited by Hess company policy. 
HessPAC permits political contributions 
only through voluntary employee-funded 
PAC contributions.
Advocacy
Hess regularly communicates with an 
array of stakeholders in the public policy 
arena, including legislators and regulators 
both in the U.S. and internationally. 
Hess executives and our External Affairs 
function engage with legislative and 
regulatory institutions to offer a unique 
perspective on energy policy issues, 
to better understand federal and state 
requirements applicable to our operations 
and to mitigate potential risks to the 
company’s license to operate.
Consistent with Hess principles and 
values, our legislative and regulatory 
engagement is done in accordance with 
all applicable laws and regulations.
Hess’ commitment to transparency also 
means that the company fully complies 
Offshore Operations, Danish North Sea18with all lobbying reporting requirements 
outlined in the Lobbying Disclosure Act 
of 1995 and all amendments made to the 
law by P .L. 110-81, the Honest Leadership 
and Open Government Act of 2007. In 
2019, the company’s lobbying expenses 
totaled approximately $624,200. This 
includes fees and expenses for external 
consultants and trade association dues 
used for lobbying purposes, as required 
by the Lobbying Disclosure Act. Hess 
also complies with any and all relevant 
state and foreign legal and regulatory 
requirements concerning direct and 
indirect lobbying activities and contacts.
Hess belongs to a number of trade 
associations (organized under section 
501(c)(6) of the Internal Revenue Code) 
that include our industry peers and other 
companies in related sectors. Trade 
associations provide forums through 
which companies across the oil and 
gas industry can develop unified public 
policy agendas, exchange technical and 
industry best practices and approach 
issues relevant to our business with a 
common voice. Hess requires all trade 
associations to publicly disclose all 
expenses related to lobbying activities,  
as outlined by the Lobbying Disclosure 
Act. Our trade associations’ lobbying 
activities accounted for 20% of our total 
lobbying spend in 2019.
In 2019, none of Hess’ membership fees or 
dues were used by any of our associations 
for direct or indirect political advocacy. 
Furthermore, no payments made by Hess 
to 501(c)(6) or 501(c)(4) organizations were used for political purposes. A list 
of memberships and associations that 
received more than $50,000 from Hess  
in 2019 is shown below.
We recognize that our positions do not 
always align with all formal positions 
of the associations, organizations and 
collaborative working groups in which 
we participate. Our funding should not 
be considered a direct endorsement of 
the entire range of activities undertaken 
by these associations, organizations or 
collaborative working groups. To address 
concerns related to potential misalignment, 
we publish our positions on key 
sustainability issues in this annual report.
Hess’ Vice President of External 
Affairs is responsible for approving and 
overseeing employee engagement with 
elected officials or regulators when these 
employees act as official representatives 
of the company. This strict internal policy 
extends to Hess employees who serve 
on trade association committees that 
advocate for policy changes. This helps 
to ensure that Hess continues to operate 
at the highest level of integrity and 
transparency and remains compliant 
with all reporting requirements.
As part of the regulatory assurance 
element of our EHS & SR strategy, we 
aim to align our advocacy priorities with 
our established processes related to 
ERM and EHS. We also conduct ongoing 
assessments of our global advocacy 
priorities to drive improvements to our 
process for tracking and informing our 
advocacy efforts.SUPPLY CHAIN
In Hess’ day-to-day business operations, 
we rely on suppliers and contractors 
to provide key goods and services and 
perform essential tasks. These companies 
are critical to our success and our ability 
to maximize the efficiency of operations 
while minimizing operational risks. In 2019, 
we purchased approximately $3.7 billion 
in commercial goods and services from 
approximately 3,000 suppliers, whose 
workhours comprised more than 70% 
of our total workforce hours.
We work collaboratively with our suppliers 
to improve performance and create 
shared value. We jointly review processes, 
procedures and data with many suppliers 
to help drive the right actions and foster 
continuous improvement. 
While this section describes our general 
approach to engagement with our 
suppliers, these practices may differ 
in certain instances, if necessary, to 
comply with applicable local laws and 
requirements or if otherwise appropriate. 
Management Approach
We continue to enhance our capabilities 
to understand the market and strategically 
manage our suppliers with cross-functional 
teams that work collaboratively to reach 
safety, quality, delivery and cost targets. 
Our Procurement Policy specifies who 
should participate in the evaluation of 
tenders, management of contracts 
and ongoing procurement of goods 
and services. It also includes code of 
ethics and conflict of interest guidelines HOW WE OPERATE
Memberships and Associations
• American Petroleum Institute
• Center for Offshore Safety
• Center for Strategic and 
International Studies
• Council on Foreign Relations • Extractive Industries 
Transparency Initiative
• Independent Petroleum 
Association of America
• International Association of Oil 
and Gas Producers• IPIECA
• Oil Gas Denmark
• National Petroleum Council
• U.S. Chamber of Commerce19
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTand states that employees who violate 
the Procurement Policy are subject to 
disciplinary actions. A central goal of 
our supply chain management system, 
including our Procurement Policy, is to 
help ensure that suppliers understand and 
abide by our high ethical, safety and other 
performance standards, while helping 
us avoid unexpected commitments and 
leverage our spend more effectively.
Hess follows a standardized approach to 
evaluate and measure the performance 
of key potential and current suppliers 
on the basis of total value, including 
safety, quality, delivery and cost. We 
employ a systematic prequalification 
and selection process to help ensure 
we are working with qualified and safe 
suppliers. Where appropriate, potential 
suppliers – as determined by a risk-based 
decision matrix – undergo a risk review; 
an anti-bribery, anti-corruption and legal 
compliance review; and a review of EHS 
performance and programs. In addition, 
our procurement staff reviews, where 
appropriate, the potential suppliers’ 
insurance, tax and quality information. 
If discrepancies with our applicable 
requirements arise, the relevant function 
within Hess conducts an additional review 
and develops mitigation plans, as needed.
Contracts that involve higher risk, due to 
factors such as the number of workhours 
or the scope of work, are subject to 
an EHS review during the procurement 
process that covers training qualifications, 
safety programs and performance, 
environmental management systems 
and measurement, and emergency 
preparedness and response, among other 
topics. As one part of the EHS review, we 
use recognized industry prequalification 
systems for our areas of operation in the 
U.S. and Europe. In Malaysia, we use a 
standardized process with a questionnaire 
based on the 14 HOMS elements. Further 
detail on our EHS-related qualifications review during procurement can be found 
in the Safety and Health section.
The companies that supply Hess with 
goods and services must comply with all 
applicable laws and regulations, including 
in areas such as EHS, conflicts of interest 
and anti-corruption, and must maintain 
any applicable licensing or permitting 
requirements for their activities. Suppliers 
are also required to meet the expectations 
set forth in our Code of Business 
Conduct and Ethics and Hess’ Voluntary 
Commitments regarding labor and human 
rights. Standard contract clauses include 
requirements with respect to ethical 
business practices, human rights, social 
responsibility, business integrity, search 
and seizure, EHS and quality of materials 
and services. 
Local Content
Internationally we often prioritize local 
suppliers when performing under 
production-sharing contracts or other 
agreements with host countries. These 
agreements vary by country.
In Malaysia, for example, we use an 
approved vendor list that includes 
Malaysian-owned companies, and we also require our suppliers to prioritize 
hiring local staff. Hess’ joint venture 
in Guyana also seeks to employ local 
nationals and support local suppliers. 
Since launching operations in Guyana 
in 2017, the joint venture has invested 
$4.4 million in supplier development, 
technical and vocational education and 
economic development, much of it 
with a focus on building local suppliers’ 
ability to obtain work in the oil and gas 
sector or broader economy. Through the 
Centre for Local Business Development, 
this investment has supported nearly 
40 supplier forums and more than 500 
business assessments to ascertain the 
strengths and weaknesses of Guyanese 
firms; helped register more than 2,000 
Guyanese businesses for access to 
opportunities through the Supplier 
Registration Portal; and conducted almost 
3,000 training days covering procurement, 
the fundamentals of offshore oil and gas, 
supply chain management, financial 
management and human resource 
management. 
    See more on Hess’ expectations and 
requirements for suppliers at suppliers.hess.
com and hess.com/sustainability/how-we-
operate/supply-chain
Planning Meeting, Houston, Texas20
Hess Student Mentoring Program, Houston, Texas21
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTAt Hess, social responsibility (SR) means 
maintaining the highest standards of 
corporate citizenship as we work to deliver 
the energy the world needs – energy that 
is fundamental to advancing economic 
progress and improving living standards. 
SR, which is one of the six Hess Values, 
is foundational to the culture of our 
company and to our engagement with the 
communities where we operate; it includes 
protecting the health and safety of our 
workforce, safeguarding the environment 
and creating a long lasting positive impact 
on our communities.
Our approach to SR emphasizes proactive 
stakeholder engagement, social risk and impact management, and strategic social 
investments that provide direct and indirect 
benefits to the communities where we 
operate. Our SR activities are designed to 
generate economic opportunities for our 
stakeholders, create valued partnerships 
and maximize value for shareholders.
GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK  
We are committed to implementing ethical 
and responsible business practices in 
all that we do. Through the Hess Code 
of Conduct, we have established the 
business conduct and practices we expect 
of our employees, officers, directors and 
contractors, including adherence to the 
highest standards of human rights.We have endorsed or formally joined a 
number of voluntary initiatives designed 
to protect the environment, promote 
human rights and encourage financial 
transparency. We collectively call these our 
Voluntary Commitments. They include:
• The Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights
• The International Labour Organization’s  
   Declaration on Fundamental Principles  
   and Rights at Work
• The United Nations (U.N.) Global Compact 
• The Extractive Industries Transparency   
   InitiativeSOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
The Sustainable Development Goals
The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development – which was adopted by U.N. Member States in 2015 – provides a shared blueprint for global 
development. Central to the Agenda is a set of 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that set ambitious targets and foster cooperation 
among governments, civil society and the private sector. 
As part of our materiality assessment (see page 6–7), we align our material issues with the SDGs to track our greatest impacts and evaluate 
where our strategic actions and ongoing operations have the most significant potential to promote progress toward the SDGs. The following 
table summarizes how the SDGs align with our material issues and where discussion of those topics can be found in this report.
RELEVANT SDGS HESS MATERIAL ISSUES DISCUSSION (PAGE #)
SDG 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote wellbeing for all at all ages•   Human Rights and Security
•   Process Safety and Spills
•   Transportation Impacts21–22, 24
30–33, 54–55, 57–58  
29
SDG 4: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote 
lifelong learning opportunities for all•   Community and Stakeholder Engagement 24–25
SDG 6: Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and 
sanitation for all•   Process Safety and Spills 
•   Water Management30–31, 54–55, 57–58  
53, 55–56
SDG 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern 
energy for all •   Climate Change and Greenhouse Gas Emissions
•   Regulatory Assurance 
•   Transparency in Business Conduct39–51
58–59  
14–17
SDG 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic 
growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all•   Community and Stakeholder Engagement 19, 35–36
SDG 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts •   Climate Change and Greenhouse Gas Emissions 39–51
SDG 14: Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine 
resources for sustainable development•   Emergency Preparedness and Response 31–33, 57–58
SDG 15: Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial 
ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and 
halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss•   Process Safety and Spills
•   Regulatory Assurance 
•   Water Management30–32, 57–58  
58–59  
53–5622In 2019, we also endorsed the Equality 
Act, and in doing so became a member 
of the Human Rights Campaign’s 
Business Coalition for the Equality Act. 
The Act, which is still under review in the 
U.S. Senate, would guarantee explicit, 
permanent protections for lesbian, gay, 
bisexual and transgender people under 
existing civil rights laws and create a federal 
standard to treat all employees the same. 
Hess’ Voluntary Commitments help to 
provide a foundation for our SR and 
Human Rights Policies. Hess’ SR Policy, 
for example, compels us to demonstrate 
high standards of ethics and integrity 
and outlines our commitments to the 
communities where we operate and to 
our workforce. Our Human Rights Policy 
specifically prohibits child labor, forced 
labor and workplace harassment in our 
operations; it also covers key issues 
relating to our supply chain and community 
engagement. These policies are supported 
at the local level through training and 
procedures specific to the needs of our 
operational locations.
Organizational Structure
Hess’ External Affairs function serves as 
an internal coordination body and resource 
for our assets and project teams as they 
implement our SR commitments and 
programs. External Affairs develops 
governance, reports companywide 
social performance, provides technical 
and functional support to the assets and
project teams, and provides assurance 
across these efforts. The asset and 
project resources report into the
business line management structure 
and are responsible for developing and 
executing asset- or project-specific SR 
plans. SR activities are integrated and 
aligned between our central organization 
and global locations.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
As we work to help meet the world’s 
energy needs, we partner as appropriate with resource owners, communities and 
stakeholders from across the industry 
and civil society to develop oil and 
natural gas resources in a manner that      
is environmentally and socially responsible.  
We prioritize safety, integrity and 
transparency and aim to treat all of our 
stakeholders with respect. We actively 
pursue dialogue with stakeholders – 
including local communities, employees, 
contractors, suppliers, customers, industry 
members, governments and investors –  
to share our values, vision and goals and 
to seek feedback.
Stakeholder Planning and 
Engagement Process   
Our stakeholder planning and engagement 
process is aligned with and included in 
the Hess Risk Management Standard. 
Alignment with this standard helps to 
establish clear links between our stakeholder 
identification and engagement activities 
and the key external issues impacting each 
asset. We maintain individualized External 
Affairs and Stakeholder (EAS) Plans for each 
of Hess’ operated locations. 
The individualized EAS Plans involve a five 
step process (see graphic above right). 
The first step is understanding the specific 
risks faced by each asset as identified 
in the asset-level risk register and “heat 
maps” and then prioritizing those risks 
that are most critical to Hess’ license to 
operate. In the second step, we establish 
documented internal accountabilities for 
managing each key issue – including 
identification of a Business Owner (i.e., an 
individual from senior management with 
accountability for the issue) and an Issue 
Manager or Managers (i.e., individuals 
responsible for managing the ongoing 
strategy and engagement to mitigate 
stakeholder impacts). In step three, each 
Issue Manager, with support from our 
External Affairs function, documents the 
relevant stakeholders, and then in step four 
outlines the engagement strategies for those 
stakeholders. The final step is monitoring and tracking the key issues, with updates to 
the Business Owner and, as required, other 
senior management at least twice per year.
Collaborating with stakeholders helps us to 
identify opportunities for beneﬁting our host 
communities while improving our business 
and strengthening our license to operate. 
We engage with a wide range of external 
stakeholders, including the following:
• Land Users/Landowners: Residents, 
landowners, commercial land interests, 
farmers, ranchers
• Resources Users/Rights Holders: Mineral 
rights owners, water rights owners and 
users, hunters, fishers, gatherers
• Governments: Local, regional and 
national authorities, national militaries, 
international governing authorities
• Parties with Direct Economic Interests: 
Investment partners, vendors and 
suppliers, contractors, unions, 
shareholders
• Parties with External Business 
Interests: Chambers of commerce, 
industry organizations, local businesses, 
sustainability initiatives
• Special Interest Groups:
Nongovernmental organizations, religious 
groups, cause-oriented nonprofits, 
community groups
• Community Services: Police, fire and 
emergency medical services, health 
care services, education, human service 
agencies SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
INTEGRATED STAKEHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENT PROCESS
STEP 1
Identify Risks & Issues
STEP 2
Establish Internal Accountabilities
STEP 3
Identify Key Stakeholders
STEP 4
Outline Engagements
STEP 5
Monitor & Track23
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT• Indigenous Groups: Formally 
recognized groups, tribal coalitions, 
government supporting agencies, 
indigenous advocacy groups
Recent examples of our stakeholder 
engagement activities can be found at  
hess.com/sustainability/social-responsibility
Grievance Mechanisms  
In the communities where we operate,  
we do our best to address potential 
issues early – before they mature into 
more severe challenges – and we believe 
that strong and transparent stakeholder 
relationships help us to do that. Formal 
grievance mechanisms are an important 
part of soliciting stakeholder feedback on 
a company’s operational impacts; they 
also help companies respond to and act 
on that feedback through an established 
process. Hess’ grievance mechanisms 
help facilitate stronger relationships 
with communities, landowners and 
other stakeholders and allow for a more 
effective response to concerns from the 
community. We have reached out to 
community members through forums 
such as community meetings, town halls 
and local hearings to share information 
about our grievance mechanisms and to 
establish channels of communication. 
Through one of the grievance mechanisms 
at our Bakken asset, we accept feedback 
and complaints (anonymously, if desired) 
through several access points, including our 
Grievance Officer, the Hess Owner  
Solutions team, our North Dakota front  
desk staff and our Surface Land team.  
We receive and address concerns relating 
to employee and contractor performance, 
behavior and activities toward external 
stakeholders. We may also receive feedback 
on environmental, health and safety (EHS) 
concerns and workplace, procurement and 
supplier issues. The most commonly raised 
topics include road conditions, erosion, 
land reclamation, fencing, cattle guards and 
weed control. In 2019, we received 318 
grievances through this process.When alerted to a potential issue, the 
response team draws employees from 
various disciplines within Hess – such as 
EHS, drilling, completions, operations, 
maintenance, civil construction and human 
resources – that are best able to respond  
to the concern and reach a resolution.  
For example, safety concerns are forwarded 
to Hess’ EHS function; individual worker 
complaints are handled by Human 
Resources; and business integrity or ethics 
complaints are referred to our Code of 
Business Conduct and Ethics hotline.  
By engaging each discipline as appropriate, 
we escalate management of the grievance 
upward in the company as necessary to 
help resolve the issue.
We maintain an internal database – the 
stakeholder management system (SMS) 
– to track these grievances from start 
to completion. (The SMS also supports our stakeholder engagement process, 
described previously.) The response team 
strives to complete each investigation 
within 14 days of the original report and 
provide a response and/or resolution within 
30 days. As a final step before closing 
a case, we contact the stakeholder to 
confirm the issue has been adequately 
addressed. Trending data on grievances 
are reported upward to the Bakken 
Leadership Team, composed of key senior 
decision makers for the Bakken asset, as 
part of our regular operating rhythm.
Separately, we maintain a grievance 
mechanism for landowners and mineral 
rights holders associated with the Bakken 
asset. Specifically, we have an Owner 
Relations telephone hotline, webpage 
and email address through which these 
individuals can ask questions and share 
concerns and complaints. Our Owner Engagement with Bakken Stakeholders Leads to Efficiencies 
Hess’ suppliers and business partners represent one of our key external stakeholder 
groups. After identifying inefficiencies in the process for contractor safety orientation 
in the Bakken region, we worked through the North Dakota Petroleum Council (NDPC) 
and with select stakeholders to create a more streamlined system.
Dozens of producers and hundreds of contractor companies operate in the Bakken 
region in North Dakota, and most contractor companies have been required to attend 
safety orientations for each producer before they can begin work. In conducting our 
Bakken contractor orientations, Hess noted that many participants were disengaged, 
having been through similar orientations already with other producers. 
In early 2018, at a meeting of the NDPC, Hess proposed a single, shared safety 
orientation program that all producers would use and that contractor employees would 
only have to take once. Those trained through such a program would be given a card, 
similar to a driver’s license, that would identify them as ready to work in the Bakken. 
The idea was met with significant support, and Hess took the lead in chairing a new 
NDPC committee to develop the program, which was named One Basin–One Way. 
Developing the One Basin–One Way safety orientation required deep and long term 
engagement with a wide array of industry stakeholders. The NDPC committee had 99 
members representing 50 different companies – from oil and gas producers to safety 
training providers to contractor companies (e.g., drilling rig operators, casing crews, 
welding companies, construction companies and more). At least 4,000 hours of work 
went into developing the program, which launched in June 2019. 
As of year end 2019, more than 11,000 workers had earned One Basin–One Way 
certifications, and over 1,300 contractor companies had registered. Thirteen producer 
companies are participating to date, and the program has been formally endorsed by 
the governor of North Dakota. This significant and collaborative engagement effort has 
resulted in a program that is providing major efficiencies for all involved companies – 
essentially exporting our Lean philosophy beyond the walls of Hess – and should also 
bolster safety in the region. 24Relations and Owner Support teams 
manage this system and use the SMS 
to track open issues and help ensure 
resolution. In 2019, these teams received 
and responded to more than 30,000 emails 
and phone calls, assisting an average of 
17 customers per hour.
Also in 2019, we worked to integrate 
these two grievance mechanisms to 
increase visibility and improve access    
to both programs.SOCIAL RISK AND IMPACT 
MANAGEMENT 
When we expand or grow our 
operations, we work with stakeholders to 
proactively identify, mitigate and manage 
aboveground risks that can impact our 
activities or the communities where we 
operate. When entering a new geography, 
commissioning a new development or 
expanding an existing facility, Hess uses 
strategic planning processes to examine 
the social, political and reputational 
environment and identify nontechnical 
risks and mitigation activities. Where our 
operations are ongoing, we regularly 
conduct heat map reviews that take into 
account new and emerging risks and 
develop recommended mitigating actions. 
We address human rights considerations 
throughout these processes, including 
during due diligence and social risk 
identification, mitigation and management. 
We also have a Security and Human Rights 
Toolkit that we can utilize locally for training 
security personnel on human rights issues.
Human Rights  
Everywhere we operate, we work to 
uphold human rights and treat everyone 
with dignity and respect. By engaging 
with stakeholders, we aim to proactively 
address potential issues and work to 
prevent human rights-related incidents. 
Hess’ complex operational environments 
present opportunities to make positive 
and lasting contributions in the areas of 
governance, transparency, respect for 
rule of law, and social and economic 
development.
Our business practices are aligned with 
our SR and Human Rights Policies. 
Human rights issues are analyzed at 
various phases of our business activities, 
beginning with due diligence. 
Hess is committed to educating our 
personnel on the importance of respecting 
human rights as well as raising internal 
awareness of the best practices outlined in our Human Rights Policy. We utilize 
an online human rights training module 
for employees that explains the concept 
and importance of human rights, reviews 
our Human Rights Policy, offers guidance 
on integrating respect for human rights 
into employees’ daily work and provides 
directions on how to report suspected 
human rights violations.
COMMUNITY BENEFITS AND 
CAPACITY BUILDING
As part of Hess’ commitment to the 
communities where we operate, we focus 
on creating local shared value, mutually 
beneficial relationships and a safe and 
reliable environment for our operations.  
At the local level, our assets and Houston 
operational headquarters create, maintain 
and implement strategic social investment, 
capacity building and infrastructure 
improvement programs tailored to each 
operation and community.
We evaluate our programs to confirm  
a balance of strategic investment and 
support of local organizations, which helps 
us meet the changing development needs 
of the communities where we operate. 
Hess focuses on established partnerships 
with key organizations and projects best 
aligned with the business and social risks 
identified through risk assessments. We 
integrate this strategy into our business, 
enhancing investment visibility and 
leveraging volunteer opportunities for our 
employees.
Our social investment programs contribute 
to education improvement and work skill 
development, which are fundamental to 
sustainable economic growth. We also 
seek to identify opportunities in our supply 
chain to provide lasting economic benefit 
through local job creation.
In 2019, our social investments totaled 
$7.7 million, with $2.6 million going toward 
education projects. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
86%12%2%
■  U.S. $6,596
■  Guyana $ 930
■  Malaysia $1332019 Social In vestment Spend
by Country  
$ Thousan ds
86%12%2%
■  U.S. $6,596
■  Guyana $ 930
■  Malaysia $1332019 Social In vestment Spend
by Country  
$ Thousan ds
58%34%2%
■  Community $4,414
■  Education $2,639
■  Matching Gifts $417
■  Health $119
■  Environment $702019 Social In vestment Spend  
by Type of In vestment
$ Thousan ds
1%
Note: These charts include all social investments in 2019, including those 
associated with joint venture operations. Noncash or “in kind” contributions
have been included within the category of the social issue they support.5% 4%
58%34%2%
■  Community $4,414
■  Education $2,639
■  Matching Gifts $417
■  Health $119
■  Environment $702019 Social In vestment Spend  
by Type of In vestment
$ Thousan ds
1%
Note: These charts include all social investments in 2019, including those 
associated with joint venture operations. Noncash or “in kind” contributions
have been included within the category of the social issue they support.5% 4%25
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTLocal Program Highlights
In 2019, Hess’ global assets and Houston operational headquarters engaged in a variety of local social investment activities.  
The following are selected highlights. 
LEAP Program in Houston  
In 2019, we extended our support of the LEAP (Learn, Engage, Advance, Persevere) educational program for three more years to help 
keep at-risk students in Houston’s Greater East End in school and aspiring toward college or vocational training through reading, summer 
programs and college- and career-readiness training. Hess has contributed more than $2.1 million to LEAP over the past three years.
LA1 Coalition in Louisiana 
As part of the LA1 Coalition, Hess continued supporting efforts to replace and elevate a section of the LA1 highway near Port Fourchon, 
Louisiana – a key port for offshore operations in the Gulf of Mexico. The new roadway is expected to improve emergency response 
capabilities and the hurricane evacuation route. Hess has contributed more than $800,000 to the public–private partnership.
JET Apprenticeships in North Dakota 
Hess continues to fund the Job Experience Training (JET) apprenticeship program, which, for the past two years, has developed 
local, qualified reliability operators in North Dakota. JET graduates also earn a U.S. Department of Labor credential. Since 2017, 26 
apprentices have entered the JET program, 14 have completed the apprenticeship and 11 have transitioned to be Hess employees.
Toy Trucks in North Dakota 
We continued our partnership with North Dakota state education officials and the governor’s office in 2019, shipping toy trucks and 
a corresponding science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) curriculum designed by Baylor College of Medicine’s Center for 
Educational Outreach to every elementary school in North Dakota. The materials help children learn about energy efficiency, kinetic 
energy and other STEM-related lessons.
Education in Malaysia 
Hess sponsored the Fulbright English Teaching Assistant (ETA) program again in 2019, bringing 12 ETAs to teach English in public 
secondary schools in Kelantan, Malaysia. The program reached almost 9,000 students through classroom learning as well as 29 
English camps. Hess also began funding a new education program under the MyKasih Foundation “Love My School” Student Bursary 
Programme, which provides annual scholarships to underprivileged children from the Orang Asli indigenous community.
Capacity Building in Guyana 
In 2019, Hess’ joint venture in Guyana invested more than $3 million to support a number of initiatives, including the Centre for Local 
Business Development and technical and vocational training for recent graduates. In addition, the joint venture evaluated the potential 
to fund future capacity development initiatives that would support economic development, health, education and training in Guyana.  
Centre for Local Business Development, Guyana26
Offshore Operations, Gulf of Mexico27
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
The safety of our workforce is Hess’ 
first priority and one of our core values, 
embodied within the Hess Value of 
Social Responsibility. Through our safety 
programs and practices, we seek to 
maintain a culture in which employees 
and contractors keep each other safe 
on the job, so that everyone across our 
operations returns home safe every day.
Our commitment to safety begins at 
the top of our company, and it is our 
expectation that this commitment be 
reinforced at every level. For example,    
we include key enterprisewide safety 
metrics in our annual incentive plan 
formula for executives and employees. 
We also conduct leadership site visits 
and safety observations to engage our 
organization in safety performance. In 
2019, we completed approximately 
194,000 site visits and observations, which 
we track as leading performance indicators. 
Our annual Global Safety Appreciation 
Day, hosted last year in November, 
provides an opportunity for the Hess 
workforce to stop and reflect on safety 
issues – including the prevention of severe 
and significant incidents – and discuss 
how we can further embed safety into the 
Hess culture. In 2019, we used the event 
to reintroduce and update our universal, 
mandatory safety requirements known as 
the Hess Rules. The original Rules focused 
on energy isolation, lifting and hoisting, 
working at heights, confined space entry, 
hot work, excavation and trenching, and 
land transportation. We added two new 
Rules, addressing dropped objects and 
safety system bypass procedures, to set 
clear expectations intended to protect 
employees and contractors who     
perform certain activities on Hess 
operated worksites. In 2019, we again conducted “Go to 
Gemba” events to engage our workforce 
in conversations about safety, with a 
focus on improving pre-job planning 
and job safety assessment tools and 
techniques. Gemba means “the real 
place” in Japanese and, in practice, 
“Going to Gemba” means having leaders 
from Hess visit our worksites to better 
understand safety challenges and 
reinforce our commitment to “everyone, 
everywhere, every day, home safe.” 
When a site’s workforce includes contract 
workers, managers from our contractor 
companies will often accompany our 
leaders on these visits. The 2019 
Gemba events took place in January 
and November, as data from recent years 
indicated that both months have higher 
incident rates; therefore these events 
present key opportunities for reinforcing 
safety practices. 
Hess is participating in the development of 
the American Petroleum Institute’s Onshore 
Safety Program, drawing on our own 
experience to support improvement within 
the oil and gas industry. This effort aims to 
establish standards for managing activities 
in U.S. onshore exploration and production 
operations that have historically high 
incident rates in the industry. The intent 
of the program is to raise awareness and 
improve understanding of best practices 
and create effective and efficient safety 
programs that are standardized across 
onshore upstream operations.
After the 2018 refresh of our safety 
leadership training program, staff from 
Hess’ asset operations and our central 
Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) 
function continued to train frontline 
leaders on specific Hess expectations 
and processes to minimize risk and improve safety performance. Through 
2019, our North Dakota asset has 
trained 275 frontline leaders to be 
safety role models. A senior leader was 
designated to attend the kickoff session 
for each class to demonstrate leadership 
support, set expectations and model the 
behaviors outlined in the workshop. With 
a look toward continuous improvement 
of our leadership training, we’ve been 
collaborating with the Center for Offshore 
Safety and the International Association 
of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP) on a set 
of process safety fundamentals, and we 
plan to integrate this into our training in 
the future.
MANAGEMENT APPROACH
At Hess, our objective is continuous 
improvement in safety performance, with 
the ultimate goal of zero safety incidents. 
The Hess Operational Management 
System (HOMS), which is discussed in  
the How We Operate section, serves as  
a framework for managing and measuring 
our safety performance.
Over the past several years, we have 
formalized and standardized many of SAFETY AND HEALTH
EHS ASSURANCE STRUCTURE
TIER I 
Corporate Audit 
Department: 
Evaluates risk 
and control structure
TIER II 
Central EHS:
Verifies compliance  
to standards
TIER III 
Assets and Facilities:
Tests systems and barriers28our EHS practices across the company 
through our global EHS standards project. 
These safety standards and associated 
procedures address key areas of safety 
risk – such as energy isolation, dropped 
objects and confined space entry – 
and promote leadership, awareness, 
consistency and accountability across 
all levels of the organization. The recent 
update to the Hess Rules, discussed 
previously, helps to better align the Rules 
with our EHS standards. 
We review conformance with the 
external and internal requirements 
(e.g., regulations, policies, standards 
and procedures) related to the various 
HOMS elements through our HOMS 
Audit Element and associated Assurance 
Procedure. This procedure was developed 
as part of our transition to HOMS in 2019; 
it is an update and expansion of our 
previous assurance program and covers 
all HOMS assurance activities. The HOMS Assurance Procedure 
operates in three tiers, as shown in the 
figure on the previous page. At the Tier I 
Assurance level, and as an independent 
assurance function within the corporation, 
the Hess Corporate Audit Department 
(CAD) conducts annual audits following a 
risk-based plan that covers various topics, 
including occupational safety and health; 
drilling, completions and production 
process safety; and management of 
environmental impacts. CAD’s annual plan 
is reviewed and approved by both the 
Audit Committee and the EHS Committee 
of Hess’ Board of Directors, while the 
audit results are reported to and reviewed 
by the EHS Committee. 
At the Tier II Assurance level, working 
collaboratively with Hess assets, subject 
matter experts and technical authorities 
conduct assessments to evaluate 
conformance with corporate and asset 
EHS standards and procedures, as well as with regulations, and assist the assets 
in addressing identified improvement 
opportunities. 
The Tier III Assurance level constitutes 
routine self-assessments by assets against 
corporate EHS standards, corporate and 
asset-level procedures, and regulations.
In 2019, Hess’ CAD conducted Tier I 
EHS audits and consulting activities in 
accordance with the Board’s approved plan 
for the year. Based on asset requests, Hess 
subject matter experts also completed 
various Tier II assessments in 2019. At the 
Tier III level, self-assessments in the form of 
behavioral safety observations, leadership 
site visits, hazard observations, drilling rig 
inspections and other reviews occurred 
throughout the year.
OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY
Hess emphasizes a culture of ownership 
for occupational safety by empowering 
workers and giving them the responsibility 
to identify and mitigate the safety issues 
relevant to their operations.
For example, our behavioral safety 
observation program (BSOP) trains 
workers to conduct peer-to-peer 
workplace observations in order to identify 
and track safe and at-risk behaviors. 
Immediate feedback is given to workers 
who have been observed, and behavioral 
trends are analyzed to identify broader 
opportunities for improvement.
Our U.S. onshore assets have had 
behavioral safety programs in place since 
2011, and best practices developed at 
those assets were codified into Hess’ 
enterprisewide BSOP Standard in 2017. 
Since then, we’ve been working to deploy 
the standard across our assets, and, with 
implementation at our operated assets 
in Denmark and Malaysia in 2019, the 
BSOP Standard has now been deployed 
enterprisewide. As part of implementation 
of the standard in Malaysia, we hosted a 
“train the trainer” session in September Local Efforts
Around the globe, Hess assets demonstrate their commitment to safety every day, 
whether by achieving outstanding results or continuously improving their processes. 
In North Dakota, we deployed a routine task procedure program in 2019 to streamline 
permitting for routine tasks relating to energy isolation. The aim was to improve control of 
work and risk management and create efficiencies in pre-job planning for routine and low 
risk activities. We developed a standardized risk assessment matrix to assess routine tasks 
and identify which tasks could be risk assessed in advance. By doing the risk assessment at 
the outset, operators no longer need a permit for each routine task they conduct and thus 
can focus more attention on higher risk tasks. Specifically, if the task is verified to be low 
risk, a worker can proceed without a permit. However, if site conditions such as weather, 
simultaneous operations, changes in process temperatures or pressures warrant, additional 
site controls, such as following standard work instructions or proceeding through the 
permit-to-work process, may be required. We are planning additional improvements in 
2020 to increase the effectiveness of this program and streamline daily planning.
At our North Malay Basin asset, we celebrated several notable safety milestones. 
Between May 2017 and September 2019, production operations at the asset achieved 
1 million workhours with no lost time injuries (LTIs), completing activities such as hookup
and commissioning, piping installation, start up, production and planned shutdown. In 
September 2019, our Tok Bali Supply Base reached four years LTI free, and in November 
2019 our Kemaman Supply Base reached seven years LTI free. Both supply bases provide 
logistics for our North Malay Basin offshore production operations and have rigorous 
safety programs in place, including monthly safety and health committee meetings, safety 
walkabouts and hazard hunts on vessels and onshore bases, and contractor engagement 
and onboarding. These efforts were a driving force behind the asset being awarded the 
Hess CEO Award for Safety Excellence as well as the Offshore Self-Regulation Excellence 
Gold Award from the Malaysian Department of Occupational Safety and Health.SAFETY AND HEALTH29
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT2019, which included teaching Hess 
workers the basics of behavioral 
safety, analysis and identification, and 
conversation skills. BSOP programs 
promote continuous data collection and 
collaborative sharing of best practices 
and safety information across Hess 
assets. Going forward, we aim to analyze 
these collected data on an ongoing basis 
to identify specific actions for continued 
improvement.
Transportation is another key focus of 
our occupational safety efforts at Hess. 
We address land, aviation and marine 
transportation safety through a variety 
of programs.
The Hess Land Transportation Standard 
has three pillars: driver training and 
competency, the use of in-vehicle 
monitoring systems for company owned 
vehicles, and journey management 
planning. Hess workers are required to 
take proactive driver training prior to the 
first time they operate a motor vehicle on 
company business, with refresher training 
required every three years. Our Land 
Transportation team publishes weekly 
safety bulletins that address key topics, 
such as distracted driving, safe parking 
and safety technology. These bulletins are 
also provided to many of our contractors. 
Our key contractors are required to 
comply with Land Transportation Safety 
Recommended Practice, Report No. 365, 
published by the IOGP . Correlated with 
these efforts, our collisions per million 
miles traveled declined by 69% from 2016 
to 2019.
Hess’ Corporate Aviation Safety 
Management System and HOMS form 
the basis of our aviation safety program. 
Our aviation standards and procedures 
frequently exceed national regulations 
in our countries of operation, and we 
regularly conduct aviation contractor 
safety audits, site visits and readiness 
reviews to monitor the safe operation of aircraft used to support our operations. 
While our aviation contractors have 
experienced no significant Hess-related 
aviation accidents or injuries in more than 
25 years, we continuously work with 
these contractors to further reduce risk. 
Through these efforts, over the past five 
years our aviation contractors have moved 
more passengers with fewer flights, 
reducing the number of flights supporting 
our operations by 35% and overall flying 
hours by 11%. In 2019, in response 
to the expanded use of unmanned 
aerial systems to survey our assets and 
operations, we increased oversight to 
proactively validate that safe practices are 
used and regulations are met.
Our approach to marine transportation 
safety is addressed under the Contractor 
Management heading later in this section. 
Key Performance Metrics
Our full workforce total recordable 
incident rate (TRIR) in 2019 was 0.43, 
which was higher than our 2018 rate 
of 0.32 and our target of 0.28. The 
uptick was driven by an increase in our 
contractor TRIR, as our employee rate 
dropped by 62% year over year. Our 
full workforce lost time incident rate 
increased from 0.08 in 2018 to 0.18 in 
2019. Our severe and significant safety 
incident (SSSI) rate, which incorporates 
incidents that have the potential to result 
in severe consequences as well as Tier 
2 process safety events and recordable 
incidents, stood at 0.54 for 2019, 
slightly above our target rate of 0.46. 
We experienced no workforce fatalities 
among either employees or contractors 
during 2019.
In response to incidents throughout the 
year, our assets conducted root cause 
analyses and implemented corrective 
actions across our onshore and offshore 
operations. Certain of our assets also 
initiated a series of site visits, safety 
surveys and safety improvement workshops early in 2019 to engage 
our employees and contractors in 
discussions about safety performance 
and to develop safety improvement 
plans. We also reemphasized the 
importance of mitigating high risk 
activities through our update to the 
Hess Rules. Ultimately, we were able 
to achieve a 33% reduction in our 
SSSI rate from April to December.
0.00.10.20.30.40.5
2017 20180.24
0.080.32
0.080.180.43
2019
■  Workforce TRIR 
■Workforce Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR)
* Hess’ workforce data includes both employees and contractors.  
When calculating LTIR, calendar work days are used. A lost time  
incident involves one or more days away from work, excluding the day  
of the incident. Occupational illness and occupation-related disease  
for current employees are included in our companywide safety totals.Workforce Safety Performance*
Cases per 200,000 Hours0.00.10.20.30.40.50.6
2017 20180.050.13
0.090.57
0.41
20190.31
■  Employee Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)
■Contractor TRIREmployee and Contractor  
Safety Performance
Cases per 200,000 Hours30To improve safety performance, 
tracking near miss incidents that 
have the potential to result in severe 
consequences is as important 
as tracking incidents that result in 
an actual consequence. We require 
that near miss incidents be reported 
internally and recorded into our 
incident management system as if an 
actual consequence had occurred. 
Hess’ enterprisewide annual incentive 
plan metrics include a target aimed 
at reducing the rate of severe safety 
incidents, which includes near miss 
incidents with potential severe 
consequences.
PROCESS SAFETY
The aim of our process safety program is 
to prevent the unplanned or uncontrolled 
loss of primary containment of any 
material, including materials that are 
nontoxic and nonflammable (e.g., steam, 
nitrogen, compressed air), that could 
result in an incident such as an injury, 
fire, explosion, toxic release or 
environmental impact.
We focus on understanding and identifying 
key points within process safety systems 
that could impact asset integrity and the 
safe and proper operation of equipment. 
In particular, we address:
•  Design integrity: reducing risks in the 
design and construction of facilities
•  Technical integrity: inspecting, testing 
and maintaining hardware and 
software barriers
•  Operational integrity: working within 
operational design parameters
Our approach to process safety involves 
identifying, managing and mitigating 
risks across Hess operations. We do 
this by raising awareness of risks among 
our workforce, providing strong safety 
leadership and maintaining a commitment 
to continuously improving our process 
safety procedures, systems and standards.In 2019, we continued to enhance our 
process safety systems by building upon 
the competency assurance and learning 
(CAL) programs – which define, assess 
and develop workforce competencies 
– that were already in place at certain 
of our assets. We are in the midst of a 
multiyear process to build a standardized 
approach to CAL, define safety critical 
job profiles across the enterprise and 
integrate CAL with HOMS. (See the How 
We Operate section for more on HOMS.) 
Standardization will allow us to have 
a common CAL program as well as a 
common CAL electronic management 
system. In 2019, we mapped certain  
job profiles with safety critical 
competencies and began developing 
an assurance strategy.Another strategy we have pursued to 
minimize process safety risk is to enhance 
our integrity management program. 
Integrity critical equipment (ICE) are 
barriers and safeguards that prevent or 
mitigate process safety incidents through 
detection, isolation, containment, control 
or emergency preparedness and response 
within our facilities. We have established 
ICE performance standards, which set 
specific requirements and criteria for 
inspections and tests that help to ensure 
ICE barriers are effective. In 2019, we again 
surpassed our target of 98% inspection 
and testing of ICE, with approximately 
15,000 critical performance standard 
assurance test work orders completed. In 
2020, we plan to continue reinforcement of 
critical maintenance compliance through 
a pilot of Hess technical authority-led 
integrity assessments of barrier health.SAFETY AND HEALTH
New Software Tools Support Global Safety
During 2019, we worked on the development of three new software tools that aim to 
better manage risks to people, property and the environment. 
The electronic Permit to Work (ePTW) and electronic Management of Change (eMOC) 
systems aim to improve consistency across processes, optimize and automate standard 
work and assure operational and regulatory compliance. Both systems are expected to 
improve our understanding of risk and support better risk management and decision 
making, especially during simultaneous operations and emergencies. 
PTW requirements seek to ensure that risks are mitigated prior to conducting work, 
personnel are involved in planning the work and conducting a risk assessment, proper 
authorization is in place for the work to be carried out, the person in charge of an area is 
aware of the ongoing work, and a formal hand back of the facility or equipment in a safe 
condition is in place. The ePTW system supports HOMS Element 7, which establishes the 
design, operational and maintenance requirements for new and existing operations and 
support activities. ePTW also helps to support several Hess Rules – including energy 
isolation, lifting and hoisting, working at heights, confined space entry, dropped object 
prevention and hot work – by improving the process for meeting the Rules’ requirements.
The eMOC software aligns with Element 8 of HOMS, which establishes a requirement 
for effective management of planned or unplanned changes to people, processes and 
equipment. We began the enterprisewide rollout of both systems in early 2020, and 
their implementation is ongoing.
The third tool, deployed in North Dakota in 2019, is a mobile safety observation program 
that is helping Hess employees and contractors to capture safety observations at field 
locations. The software platform enables the recording of safety observations in real 
time. It includes a standardized methodology for capturing observations and allows      
for continuous learning and sharing of best practices. 
These three software systems have transformed legacy systems into efficient digital 
processes – giving employees and contractors ready access to the information they 
need to do their jobs.31
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTUnderstanding the role of barriers in 
relation to hazards, threats, events and 
consequences – in other words, “barrier 
thinking” – is a key part of our ongoing 
process safety efforts. Our Gulf of Mexico 
employees and contractors continue to 
use “bow tie” diagrams to help visualize 
threats, barriers and consequences. Our 
North Malay Basin asset implemented a 
bow tie program on its platform in 2019 
and is working toward implementation of 
a similar program on its floating storage 
and offloading vessel in 2020. 
In Denmark, we strengthened barrier 
effectiveness and maintenance in 2019 
as part of our effort to obtain third-party 
validation for the asset’s performance 
standards, as required by European 
Union legislation. We are working to 
validate the existing bow ties in the 
asset’s safety case, which is a regulatorily 
required study unique to individual 
offshore installations that aims to identify 
and mitigate safety risk. In 2020, our 
aim is to validate our maintenance 
management system by conducting a 
third-party audit of performance tests on 
selected systems.
Key Performance Metrics
Hess tracks process safety key 
performance indicators (KPIs) pursuant 
to the IOGP’s Process Safety – 
Recommended Practice on Key 
Performance Indicators, Report No. 456, 
November 2018. Categorized as Tier 1 
and Tier 2 KPIs, these are reported at an 
enterprisewide level in both internal and 
external reports.
Our goal has been to continually reduce 
our number of process safety events (PSEs). However, we experienced an 
increase in our combined Tier 1 and Tier 
2 PSEs over 2018, which was our best 
year to date, with six Tier 1 PSEs in 2019 
(compared with three in 2018) and 10 
Tier 2 PSEs (the same as in 2018). We 
have investigated all 2019 Tier 1 and 
Tier 2 incidents and are implementing 
appropriate actions that are expected to 
prevent similar incidents in the future. 
We also track Tier 3 and 4 KPIs, which are 
leading process safety indicators primarily 
designed to monitor risk control systems 
and process safety barriers at the facility, 
asset or enterprise level. Hess uses these 
KPIs to drive continuous improvement at 
particular facilities. For instance, our global 
Drilling and Completions team tracks    
Tier 3 KPIs relating to well control system 
performance. An example of a global 
Production Tier 4 KPI is the execution 
of required maintenance on ICE, which 
was an indicator that was again included 
in the 2019 annual incentive plan bonus 
calculation for employees.
EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS  
AND RESPONSE
While Hess’ safety programs are designed 
to help prevent incidents from occurring, we also diligently prepare to respond effectively 
to any emergency that may occur.
Emergency preparedness and response 
exercises help us to engage our 
employees and key stakeholders, 
including our contractors, in preparing 
for and responding to an incident. 
These exercises range from notification 
drills (in which personnel practice the 
communication protocols required in case 
of an emergency) to full-scale equipment 
mobilization exercises. In the event of an 
incident, Hess’ emergency preparedness 
and response program is designed to 
respond to actual or threatened injuries 
to people, spills and releases to the 
environment, damage to our assets and 
impacts to the company’s reputation –  
in that order of priority.
Preparedness at Hess involves our 
response organization (illustrated on 
the next page), engagement with officials 
and communities, emergency facilities 
and response plans. We hold trainings 
and exercises to define and clarify roles, 
responsibilities and resources. Continuous 
improvement is an essential element of our 
Emergency Preparedness and Response 
Standard by which we incorporate lessons 
Planning and Response Regarding the COVID-19 Pandemic 
In early 2020, an outbreak of a new coronavirus strain became a deadly global 
pandemic. Our first priority in this crisis has been the safety of our workforce and 
the communities where we operate.
We established an enterprisewide, cross-functional team specifically for COVID-19 
and activated response teams for each of our locations in Europe, Asia and the U.S. The 
objective is to protect health and safety while assuring continued reliable operations. 
These teams have implemented a variety of health and safety measures in consultation 
with suppliers and partners based on the most current recommendations by 
government and public health agencies. This includes enhanced cleaning procedures, 
health screenings, travel restrictions, extended work schedules at offshore platforms, 
and social distancing initiatives such as remote working and reducing the number of 
personnel on worksites wherever possible.
We continue to keep our workforce informed about updated guidance from health 
officials, Hess’ actions, and available benefit resources through internal channels such 
as emails, the company intranet site, virtual town hall meetings, internal social media 
posts and supervisor-led small group virtual meetings.
We also reached into our communities to help those most vulnerable to the pandemic’s 
impact, such as lower income families with children at home, medical professionals and 
first responders and hospitality workers in need.Process Safety Events
2017 2018 2019
Tier 1
PSE Count7 3 6
Tier 2
PSE Count22 10 1032learned from incidents and exercises into 
our preparedness planning, training and 
future exercises.
In 2019, we conducted several 
preparedness trainings and exercises at the 
local level. In North Dakota, for example, 
local response teams and Hess employees 
participated in emergency response plan 
trainings and equipment deployment 
drills, including one at the Tioga Rail 
Terminal, enacting firefighting and spill 
response tactics. Federal regulators, state 
law enforcement and local fire services 
participated in a functional exercise for a 
catastrophic event at the Tioga Gas Plant. 
We also conducted equipment deployment 
drills on Lake Sakakawea, in partnership 
with county emergency management 
departments. 
In the Gulf of Mexico (GOM), we revised 
and tested the GOM Regional Well 
Containment Plan through a worst-case 
discharge scenario functional exercise 
involving one of the offshore production 
platforms. Participants included the 
U.S. Coast Guard, the Hess Incident 
Management Team and various spill 
response and well control cooperatives. 
Separately, the GOM Incident 
Management Team visited partner oil spill 
recovery and response organizations to 
observe and learn more about the use of oil spill recovery equipment and offshore 
vessel operations.
As part of our joint venture with 
ExxonMobil in Guyana, we participated 
in an incident command system training 
involving Guyana response agency 
stakeholders, with Hess providing 
delivery assistance. We also participated 
in a functional exercise simulating hose 
failure and pump malfunction during an 
uncontrolled spill, and we tested the 
notification and communication process 
between ExxonMobil and Hess.
At our Houston operational headquarters, 
we conducted medical drills to practice 
and refine our response programs. We 
also took steps to improve our cyber crisis 
management plan with a risk analysis and 
subsequent tabletop exercise to identify 
areas for improvement. 
CONTRACTOR MANAGEMENT
Contractors are critical to Hess’ operations, 
comprising more than 70% of our total 
workforce hours and performing key tasks 
in our operations. 
We use a recognized industry 
safety database to standardize our 
prequalification processes across multiple 
sites for our U.S. operations. This enables 
us to clearly communicate requirements 
and expectations to our contractors and 
share information efficiently across Hess 
operations. We also now require that 
U.S. asset subcontractors register in the 
database, to provide another layer of 
visibility into subcontractors and to validate 
that work done on behalf of Hess meets 
our EHS expectations. 
HOMS addresses contractor capabilities 
and competencies, and, as part of 
this framework, we have implemented 
a Contractor Management Standard 
at our operated assets. The standard 
includes requirements for both current 
and potential new contractors to whom 
the standard applies. For example, the standard requires that we give 
contractors a letter grade based on 
factors such as past EHS performance 
and existing safety management systems. 
If a contractor receives an unsatisfactory 
grade based on EHS criteria, the asset 
vice president or director must endorse 
a safety improvement action plan before 
that contractor may be approved for 
procurement or provide services on a Hess 
controlled work location. If an operational 
situation (such as an emergency) requires 
the use of a contractor that has not 
completed the prequalification process 
or that has received an unsatisfactory EHS 
grade, the asset vice president or director 
must approve the use of the contractor, 
and asset management must provide 
increased oversight.
As an extension of the Contractor 
Management Standard, we developed a 
new risk-based contractor engagement 
procedure in 2019 that requires certain 
engagement activities based on a 
contractor’s EHS risk profile. One of the 
required activities is to perform “bridging” 
for higher risk, in-scope contractors. The 
procedure also established a corporatewide 
bridging philosophy and methodology, 
which should help bring consistency to the 
bridging process and associated bridging 
documents. Once issued, the procedure is 
anticipated to help prioritize engagement 
with higher risk contractors and align 
our contractor management resources 
accordingly.
We audit contractors to verify compliance 
with applicable Hess EHS requirements; 
contractor EHS requirements; local, state 
and federal requirements; and industry 
standards and best practices. In addition, 
new contractors working on Hess 
controlled worksites must take part 
in an onboarding process.
We also work to ensure that our 
contractors receive safety training along 
with our employees. In 2019, our North SAFETY AND HEALTH
HESS EMERGENCY 
RESPONSE ORGANIZATION
ISTIncident Support Team
HOUSTON
IMTIncident Management Team
ASSETTIER 1ERTEmergency Response Team
FACILITY33
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTMalay Basin asset held its annual Logistics 
EHS Week in Tok Bali, Malaysia, to 
create greater safety awareness among 
contractors, employees and community 
members. Eleven logistics contractors 
participated, including marine, land and 
aviation transportation companies. Similarly, 
and as noted at the beginning of this 
section, we held engagement workshops 
with contractor partners in North Dakota to 
discuss safety performance and develop 
safety improvement plans.
Hess’ enterprisewide marine assurance 
framework, as well as the Offshore Vessel 
Management and Self-Assessment 
program – a tool developed by the Oil 
Companies International Marine Forum – 
form the basis of how we evaluate marine 
contractors and vessels. The program 
helps to ensure a clearer and more 
consistent communication of our needs 
and expectations to our marine contractors 
and enables us to review the qualifications 
of marine contractors from around the 
world using an internationally accepted, 
standardized approach. Also as part of the 
program, we rate our marine contractors’ 
performance and use the resulting scores 
to determine where improvement plans 
may be needed. 
HEALTH AND WELLNESS
At Hess, we prioritize the health of our 
employees and contractors both on 
and off the job. In key locations – such 
as Houston and North Dakota – and for 
eligible employees and their spouses, 
we offer a comprehensive wellness 
program that encompasses emotional, 
social, physical and financial wellbeing. 
The program includes annual on-site 
flu vaccines, biometric screenings and 
health and wellness fairs. Our health and 
wellness fairs bring local vendors directly 
to employees and select contractors 
during business hours and provide many 
additional options for improving personal 
health, including meal plans developed by a nutritionist, exercise programs 
shared by personal trainers and outdoor 
events to increase physical activity. We 
also maintain a random drug and alcohol 
testing program for employees and select 
contractors at our U.S. facilities. This effort 
includes the management of regulatory 
drug testing programs required by the U.S. 
Department of Transportation and the 
U.S. Coast Guard. 
We also continue to evaluate health risks 
as technologies in drilling and operations 
evolve. In North Dakota, Hess has worked 
with the National Institute for Occupational 
Safety and Health (NIOSH) – a branch of 
the federal Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention – to stay abreast of changes 
to regulations and trending health topics and to promote the health of workers. 
In 2019, NIOSH conducted in-depth, 
on-site studies at Hess locations on 
occupational health and industrial hygiene 
topics, including, for example, taking a 
comprehensive look at the presence of 
chemicals in the atmosphere at a worksite 
from start to finish of a drilling operation. 
Separately, Hess’ industrial hygienist 
studied reliability operator job tasks, 
looking at the use of solvents and common 
oilfield chemicals in our operations to 
better understand potential exposures 
from such use. These types of studies help 
Hess continue to improve work practices, 
raise awareness among oilfield workers of 
potential hazards, and find and promote 
ways of reducing risks in our operations 
and throughout the industry.
Supply Base Operations, Malaysia34
Planning Room, Houston, Texas35
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTOur priority is to make Hess a great place 
to work, now and for the long term. We 
deliberately shape our employee culture 
by focusing on quality leadership, 
fostering diversity and inclusion, creating 
learning and engagement opportunities, 
driving innovation and embracing Lean 
processes. Through our Life at Hess 
initiative and a range of other policies and 
programs, we seek to deliver a positive 
and fulfilling employee experience. 
EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS
At the start of 2019, Hess had 1,708 
employees, and as of December 31, 
2019, we had 1,775 employees. Of this 
year end total, approximately 86% were 
located in the U.S. and 14% were in 
international locations.
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
At Hess, we are committed to diversity and 
to providing equal employment opportunities 
for all employees and job candidates 
regardless of race, color, gender, age, 
sexual orientation, gender identity, creed, 
national origin, genetic information, disability, 
veteran status or any other protected 
status in recruitment, hiring, compensation, 
promotion, training, assignment of work, 
performance evaluation and all other 
aspects of employment. Hess’ Inclusion 
and Diversity Council provides executive 
leadership and direction to our hiring, work 
environment and development activities.
We do not tolerate any form of workplace 
harassment, including sexual harassment. 
We reinforce these expectations through 
our Code of Conduct, our recently 
updated Equal Employment Opportunity 
and Harassment-Free Workplace Policies, 
training for U.S.-based managers, other 
human resources policies and our Human 
Rights and Social Responsibility Policies. Recruiting Diverse Hires
In 2019, we implemented several initiatives 
to help us attract more diverse job 
candidates and new hires. For example, 
we introduced a new video recruiting 
technology, HireVue, to expand the reach 
of our university recruiting and attract 
more diverse talent into our early career 
programs. We also became a member 
of the National GEM Consortium, which 
supports the development of diverse 
STEM (science, technology, engineering 
and math) talent at the master’s and Ph.D. 
levels. As part of the Genesys Works 
program, we welcomed two more high-
school-level interns – for a total of four 
– who represent diverse backgrounds. 
Lastly, we worked to improve our candidate 
experience for Hess applicants. 
Fostering Inclusion
Hess is also committed to fostering an 
inclusive work environment in which each 
person is a valued team member who 
continually learns and grows. In 2019, we 
expanded our Unconscious Bias training 
to our U.S., Malaysia and Denmark 
managers, and 475 employees completed 
the training in these locations.  
Through Life at Hess, we are helping  
to ensure that inclusion is woven into  
our culture, policies and programs.  
As a testament to our efforts, Hess was 
included in the 2020 Bloomberg Gender-
Equality Index, which tracks and reports 
on public companies’ performance on 
gender equality and representation in the 
workplace, as well as transparency in 
reporting on gender. We also received an 
85% score on the 2020 Human Rights 
Campaign Foundation’s Corporate Equality 
Index (CEI). The CEI ranks more than 
1,000 of the nation’s largest businesses 
on their practices related to lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer (LGBTQ) 
equality and inclusion. 
We remain committed to fostering the 
professional growth of women and 
minorities at Hess. As an example, 
Women Inspiring Success and Excellence OUR PEOPLE
2019 Women and Minority*  
Representation
WOMEN  
(U.S. AND INTERNATIONAL)
JOB  
CATEGORYTotal 
Employees in 
Job CategoryNumber 
of 
WomenPercent 
Women
Executives and 
Senior Officers31 5 16%
First- and Mid-  
Level Managers441 99 22%
Professionals 874 273 31%
Other 429 79 18%
TOTAL 1,775 456 26%
MINORITIES  
(U.S.- BASED EMPLOYEES)
JOB  
CATEGORYTotal 
Employees 
in Job 
CategoryNumber 
of 
MinoritiesPercent 
Minorities
Executives and 
Senior Officers30 4 13%
First- and Mid-  
Level Managers359 68 19%
Professionals 756 195 26%
Other 383 64 17%
TOTAL 1,528 331 22%
*As defined by the U.S. Department of Labor2019 Employees by Region
Americas 1,528 86%
Asia-Pacific 150 8%
Europe 94 5%
Africa 3 <1%36(WISE) – a Hess networking group with 
chapters in Houston, New York and 
North Dakota – has a vision to “help 
promote and cultivate leadership skills, 
business practices, career opportunities 
and personal contacts for women.” WISE 
is run as a “Lean-In Circle” and uses 
workshop modules from Lean-In Energy, 
the industry chapter of the national 
organization based on Sheryl Sandberg’s 
bestselling book, Lean In. To underscore 
our commitment to gender equality, our 
Senior Vice President of Production serves 
on Lean-In Energy’s board of directors, 
and Hess was a sponsor of its new online 
mentoring platform. Our relationship with 
the Lean-In organization provides Hess 
employees with external opportunities for 
enrichment, development, networking and 
digital mentoring.
Also in 2019, we continued to provide 
U.S. employees with a corporate 
membership to the Women’s Energy 
Network (WEN), sponsored WEN’s 30th 
anniversary celebration and sent Hess 
representatives to serve as leaders at 
the Women’s Global Leadership Forum 
and the HERWorld Energy Forum.
Tracking Our Performance
To gauge our progress, we track our U.S. 
employee demographic metrics, including 
the proportions of Hess’ workforce that are 
female and minority (as defined by the U.S. 
Department of Labor). From 2018 to 2019, 
the numbers of both female employees and 
minority employees remained consistent. 
We also track the number of local national 
employees in our international operations 
and report publicly where the number is 
100 or more. Overall, the proportion of 
local nationals and of nationals holding 
managerial or professional positions has 
grown over the past five years. During this 
period, the percentage of local nationals 
increased from 85% to 98% in Denmark 
and from 75% to 89% in Malaysia.External Efforts
We take part in external efforts and 
professional organizations that are helping 
to make our industry more diverse. In 
2019, for example, we publicly endorsed 
the Equality Act, and in doing so 
became a member of the Human Rights 
Campaign’s Business Coalition for the 
Equality Act. The Coalition is a group of 
more than 260 leading U.S. employers 
that support the Equality Act, which would 
guarantee explicit, permanent protections 
for LGBTQ people under existing civil 
rights laws and create a federal standard 
to treat all employees the same. 
Also in 2019, we engaged with groups 
such as the National Business & Disability 
Council at the Viscardi Center, the National 
Diversity Council, the U.S. Business 
Leadership Network, the National Action 
Council for Minorities in Engineering, the 
Society of Women Engineers and the 
Veteran Jobs Mission. We also support 
additional membership organizations that 
promote diversity.
TALENT MANAGEMENT
We take a strategic and deliberate 
approach to talent development so 
that our employees have meaningful 
opportunities and a clear path to grow 
with the company and become future 
leaders.
CareerManager, our human resources 
system, provides a common platform 
and offers a range of tools to manage 
talent development. In 2019, we launched 
a new tool, CareerManager Talent, 
that provides senior managers with a 
standard approach to assess and track 
the development of future leaders while 
facilitating real-time conversations with 
their teams. In 2020, we plan to give more 
managers access to the tool. 
In 2019, we launched a refreshed 
approach to career development, 
helping managers to have more effective conversations and support employees in 
career choices. We also rolled out revised 
technical career maps to our engineering 
and geosciences staff. 
One of the aims of our career development 
efforts is to help employees advance within 
the company. Over the course of 2019, we 
had more than 200 internal promotions and 
approximately 300 internal moves. 
Integrating Lean
We have continued our work to establish 
a distinctive Lean culture across the 
enterprise. Embedded Lean leaders – 
employees who are highly trained in Lean 
– help to ensure we put Lean principles 
into practice effectively. We also encourage 
employees to participate in training and 
engage in coaching and mentoring to 
support their Lean skills development. 
Learning and Development
We’re committed to fostering a culture of 
continuous learning. Our enterprisewide 
learning management system – 
CareerManager Learning – houses 
computer-based training modules and 
supporting materials for instructor-led 
courses. It also tracks and records 
employee training and measures 
training effectiveness through surveys 
and evaluations. In 2019, approximately 
900 employees participated in various 
CareerManager trainings, for a total of 
roughly 9,100 hours. (These numbers do 
not include our mandatory safety training, 
which is tracked and reported separately.)
New Hires and Early Career 
Programs
Passport to Hess is an onboarding 
and orientation program for new Hess 
employees designed to facilitate a smooth 
transition through close interaction with 
supervisors. The experience begins with 
access to a pre-hire portal that enables 
new employees to learn about their work 
location prior to their first day on the job. 
After starting at Hess, employees can OUR PEOPLE37
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTaccess a structured, on-demand learning 
program that explains our culture and 
values. In addition, supervisors receive 
tools and coaching to guide them in 
helping new hires successfully integrate into 
their work teams. 
Early career engineers and geoscientists can 
take part in our Foundation Program, which 
helps prepare them for their careers through 
focused training, mentoring and on-the-job 
assignments. The Foundation Program, with 
63% of its membership comprising women 
and minorities, reflects our commitment to 
diversity. Through the program, we maintain 
relationships with universities that align 
with our values, standards and business 
operations. Hess leaders serve as members 
of the academic advisory committees of 
some of these universities.
Hess has also continued to support the Job 
Experience Training (JET) apprenticeship 
program in North Dakota. Over the past 
two years the program has graduated local, 
qualified reliability operators who also earn 
a U.S. Department of Labor credential. 
Through JET, we partner with local high 
schools and the Transitional Assistance 
Program at Minot Air Force Base to source 
new candidates who are looking for 
employment opportunities. Since 2017, 26 
apprentices have entered the JET program, 
14 have completed the apprenticeship and 
11 been brought onto Hess as new hires.
BENEFITS
We are committed to providing our 
employees with high quality service and 
value when it comes to benefits. In 2019, 
we provided more than $96 million in 
benefits to our U.S. employees and 
continued to refine and expand our benefit 
offerings. For example, we introduced a new 
wellness program focusing on the emotional, 
social, physical and financial wellbeing of 
our employees and subsequently expanded 
the program to spouses and partners. 
Employees can earn company contributions 
to their Health Savings Accounts by participating in the wellness program. We 
expanded long term disability benefits for 
our employees and now cover the entire 
cost. We continue to provide seminars on 
financial and health-related wellness topics.
For our U.S. employees, we continue to 
extend all benefits coverage to spouses and 
partners and offer transgender benefits and 
equitable benefits for LGBTQ employees 
and their families.
In celebration of our company’s 85th 
anniversary in 2018, every employee 
below senior executive level was granted 
85 shares of Hess stock – a gift intended 
to reward and engage employees in the 
future success of the company. In 2019, 
we began the practice of awarding stock 
to new hires, so that all Hess employees 
are shareholders.
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
To positively enhance employees’ 
experience at Hess, we use a range 
of engagement tools, including small 
group discussions, focus groups, town 
hall meetings, interactive webcasts and 
regular pulse surveys. We regularly share 
information with and solicit feedback 
from employees about our business 
performance, programs and processes. 
We utilize the company intranet and digital 
signage at our major locations to share 
information in a timely manner. 
Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief 
Operating Officer (COO) host small group 
sessions, called Leadership Dialogues, 
to discuss enterprise opportunities and 
challenges. In 2019, Hess convened 
29 Leadership Dialogue sessions at our 
Houston operational headquarters, our 
regional offices in North Dakota and 
Malaysia, and via video conference with 
offshore and field locations – reaching more 
than 500 employees.
Also in 2019, we held three town hall 
meetings that were webcast to offices 
and offshore platforms in the U.S., Europe and Asia. Many more were held 
locally in Denmark, Houston, Malaysia 
and North Dakota. We use town halls to 
provide updates on business priorities and 
performance, reinforce strategy and values, 
and answer questions from our workforce.
We launched a new program in 2019 called 
“Greg on the Go” – a short employee Q&A 
audiocast with our COO Greg Hill. 
As part of Life at Hess, we rolled out a 
manager education program to help leaders 
understand how to leverage Hess policies 
and practices, rewards and recognition 
programs, and career opportunities to 
enhance the employee experience. In 
2019, we recast the Hess Excellence 
Awards to recognize individuals and 
teams for exceptional accomplishments 
that exemplify our Hess Values.
We improved our education assistance 
program, giving employees immediate 
access to the full benefit (rather than 
providing an annual stipend) and enabling 
new employees to take part right away. 
In 2019, 57 employees took advantage 
of this program. We also introduced new 
flexible work schedules, which provide 
more work-life balance, for all employees 
in North Dakota and office-based 
employees in Malaysia. 
Finally, we continue to make a lasting, 
positive impact on our communities 
through volunteering and giving. Our 
Volunteer Policy allows employees, 
with manager approval, to participate 
in company sponsored volunteer events 
during business hours. Employees can 
request matching gifts of up to $5,000 
annually for personal donations, and 
qualified charities may receive a $500 
grant on behalf of employees who 
support that charity on their own time.
In 2019, our employees spent nearly 
6,400 hours volunteering and donated 
more than $416,000 through our matching 
gift program.38
Drilling Operations, North Dakota39
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTEXTERNAL ENGAGEMENT
We engage with key stakeholders – 
including government agencies, investors, 
private landowners and communities – on 
select issues including climate change, 
and we will continue to communicate our 
performance on these topics in this annual 
sustainability report and the sustainability 
section of our company website.
Hess is an active member of IPIECA on 
sustainable development issues such as 
climate change, biodiversity impacts and 
access to energy – issues that are often 
too complex for individual companies 
to tackle alone. IPIECA represents its 
members by engaging with stakeholders and governments on climate change-
related topics. It is not a lobbying 
organization, but instead provides a forum 
for encouraging continuous improvement 
of industry performance. IPIECA enables 
collaborative work with stakeholders by 
promoting an understanding of the key 
role the oil and gas industry should play 
in providing innovation, global reach, 
knowledge and technical expertise to help 
develop and implement feasible future 
energy solutions.
Hess has consistently been recognized 
as a leader in the oil and gas industry for 
our disclosure and transparency relating 
to sustainability, and we remain committed to our goal of top quartile performance 
in this regard. In addition to preparing 
this sustainability report in accordance 
with the Global Reporting Initiative’s 
Standards at the Core reporting level 
and establishing our alignment with the 
TCFD recommendations, we participate 
in a number of voluntary initiatives related 
to climate change disclosure. We have 
been recognized for our climate change 
stewardship, achieving leadership status in 
the CDP’s 2019 Global Climate Analysis for 
the 11th consecutive year. Hess is one of 
only two U.S.-based energy companies to 
achieve leadership status, earning an A-.  
According to the CDP Score Report, CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY
Hess ’ Climate Change Position
Climate change is a significant global challenge that requires 
governments, businesses and civil society to work together on 
cost-effective policies. We believe climate risks can and should 
be addressed while also providing the safe, affordable and 
reliable energy necessary to ensure human welfare and global 
economic development in the context of the United Nations 
(U.N.) Sustainable Development Goals.
Hess supports the aim of the Paris Agreement, and Hess’ Board 
of Directors and senior leadership have set aggressive targets 
for greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reductions. Over the past 12 
years, our company has reduced our absolute Scope 1 and 2 
equity GHG emissions by approximately 60%.
We are committed to developing oil and gas resources in an 
environmentally responsible and sustainable manner. Our Board 
is climate change literate and actively engaged in overseeing 
Hess’ sustainability practices, working alongside senior 
management to evaluate sustainability risks and global scenarios 
in making strategic decisions. We are committed to 
transparency, and our strategy is closely aligned with the 
recommendations of the G20 Financial Stability Board’s Task 
Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
In 2019, we once again tested the robustness of Hess’ portfolio 
under the energy supply and demand scenarios from the 
International Energy Agency (IEA) 2019 World Energy Outlook 
(WEO), including the ambitious GHG reductions assumed within 
the IEA’s well below 2°C Sustainable Development Scenario 
(SDS), and confirmed the robustness of our portfolio and our 
inventory of forward investments. We expect the IEA’s views to 
continue to evolve, including in response to macro events unrelated to the energy transition, and we intend to continue to 
reflect the IEA’s scenarios in our future analyses.
Hess’ strategic priorities – to invest only in high return, low cost 
opportunities, build a focused and balanced portfolio at low 
prices and lower our portfolio breakeven costs – are aligned with 
the energy transition needed to achieve the IEA’s SDS, in which  
oil and gas will continue to be essential to meeting the world’s 
growing energy demand. Our business planning includes actions 
we will undertake to continue reducing our carbon footprint 
consistent with the findings of the U.N. Intergovernmental Panel 
on Climate Change (IPCC) and the aim of the Paris Agreement 
to limit global average temperature rise to well below 2°C. 
We will continue to take steps to monitor, measure and reduce 
our GHG emissions through the following actions:
•  Setting and disclosing our targets to reduce the carbon 
intensity of our operations
•  Applying technological innovation and efficiency to decrease 
energy use and GHG emissions across our operations, and 
continuing to explore additional opportunities to do so
•  Investing in innovative research and scientific solutions to 
mitigate climate change
•  Accounting for the cost of carbon in significant new 
investments
•  Incorporating carbon risk scenario analysis into our business 
planning cycle
•  Working with government and industry partners to advance 
the development of a range of low GHG emission pathways 
and technological advancements
40CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY
our score is higher than the oil and gas 
extraction and production sector average 
(C), the North America regional average (C) 
and the global average (C). We obtained an 
A- by earning high marks in many of the 
leadership categories critical to the TCFD, which confirms, through an external 
review, our alignment with the TCFD’s 
recommendations. 
    Access our latest CDP Climate Change 
response and CDP Score Report at hess.com/
sustainability/climate-change-energyFor the 10th consecutive year, we were 
included in the Dow Jones Sustainability 
Index North America, which highlights 
public companies with outstanding 
performance across economic, 
environmental and social factors, 
including those related to climate change.TCFD 
FRAMEWORK:  
CORE ELEMENTSHESS’ ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH, SAFETY AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (EHS & SR) STRATEGY:  
CLIMATE CHANGE ACTIONSDISCUSSION 
(PAGE #)
Governance•   Maintain the Board of Directors’ EHS Committee, which oversees our climate change strategy and other 
EHS matters
•   Continue to brief the Board of Directors on climate change matters, to help ensure they remain climate 
change literate and that climate change-related risks are considered in the development of company 
strategies and policies2–3, 
13, 41
Strategy•   Maintain a Climate Change Position, and update it as needed to align with internal initiatives and 
stakeholder expectations
•   Support the aim of the Paris Agreement
•   Continue to take proactive steps to measure and manage GHG emissions and evaluate emission 
reduction opportunities; set targets to reduce GHG emissions, methane and flaring
•   Continue environmental, social and governance disclosures, such as our annual sustainability report and 
the CDP Climate Change survey
•   Purchase renewable energy credits, in combination with renewable energy generated from the grid,      
to offset 100% of our Scope 2 emissions from purchased electricity, and purchase carbon offsets to 
mitigate 100% of our business travel-related emissions
• Invest in innovative research and scientific solutions to mitigate climate change39–51
Risk 
Management•   Utilize an enhanced enterprise risk management process to manage climate change-related risk
•   Screen new projects to balance risk and return on investment, including applying a $40 per tonne 
carbon price in geographies where no specific regulation yet applies
•   Continue to publish a carbon asset risk analysis (first published in Hess’ 2013 Sustainability Report) that 
evaluates the most ambitious GHG reduction scenarios from the IEA
•   Conduct scenario planning to test the resilience of our portfolio against various alternative views of 
future market conditions (the results of our portfolio-specific scenario planning analysis are summarized 
later in this section)14–16, 
41–46
Metrics  
and Targets•   Continue to track progress against Hess’ three global targets that align with the TCFD’s considerations 
for target-setting; i.e., whether the target is absolute or intensity, timeframes over which the target 
applies, base year against which progress is measured, and key performance indicators used to assess 
progress against targets
•   Maintain our 25% GHG intensity reduction target (established in 2015), which is aligned with the IEA’s 
2019 World Energy Outlook Sustainable Development Scenario projection of a 21% carbon intensity 
reduction by 203046–51The Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures 
Many corporations, lenders and investors are integrating climate change risks and opportunities into their future financial planning. 
The TCFD provides a universal framework to communicate companies’ responses to the physical, reputational and transition risks 
of climate change. Moreover, the TCFD is fast becoming the benchmark approach for climate disclosure. Through widespread 
adoption of the TCFD recommendations, climate-related risks and opportunities are meant to become a natural part of companies’ 
risk management and strategic planning processes.
We believe that Hess’ climate change strategy is aligned with the TCFD recommendations to evaluate the potential impacts 
of climate change-related risks and opportunities on our organization’s operations, strategy and financial planning. In 2018, 
we completed our first scenario-based annual carbon asset risk assessment to evaluate Hess’ transition risks. Subsequently, 
we expanded this analysis to include measuring physical and reputational risks, completing the necessary steps to be aligned 
with the TCFD’s approach to analyzing climate-related risks and opportunities. 
The TCFD guidelines describe the corporate disclosures being sought. Broadly, disclosures should fall under four categories: 
governance, strategy, risk management, and metrics and targets. 41
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTGOVERNANCE
Hess’ Board of Directors works alongside 
senior management and actively oversees 
Hess’ sustainability practices, so that 
sustainability risks – including those 
related to climate change – are taken into 
account when making strategic decisions.
The Environmental, Health and Safety 
(EHS) Committee of the Board is tasked 
with assisting the Board in identifying, 
evaluating and monitoring EHS risks and 
strategies with the potential to affect the 
people, environment or communities where 
we operate or our company’s business 
activities, performance or reputation. The 
Hess Board is routinely briefed by experts 
to help ensure they remain climate change 
literate and that climate change-related 
risks are considered in the development of 
company strategies and policies. Our Vice 
President of EHS also met regularly with 
the Board’s EHS Committee in 2019 to 
provide updates on climate change-related 
issues and strategic initiatives, to review 
external drivers for strategy and reporting 
and to prioritize ongoing and future actions. 
See the How We Operate section for more 
detail on governance.
INVESTMENT DECISIONS
All significant new investment proposals, 
as presented for approval to senior 
management, incorporate the cost 
of carbon as set out in our planning 
guidance documentation. In geographies 
where there is an established regulatory 
framework in relation to carbon dioxide 
(CO2) cost, impacts are included in the 
base case of the investment analysis. 
Where there is currently no regulatory 
framework, results are presented as a 
sensitivity. Investment decisions are made 
in the context of such evaluation and on 
return-on-investment criteria to balance 
risk and return. Hess’ Greenhouse Gas 
Cost in Project Economics guidance 
document for incorporating GHG costs 
in project economics was first published 
internally in 2016. RISK MANAGEMENT
Through our enterprise risk management 
(ERM) process, we have developed risk 
profiles for each of our assets that identify 
key risks – including those related to 
climate change. For each risk scenario, 
we estimate the likelihood and potential 
impact that the identified risks, including 
physical, reputational and transition-
related climate change risks, could have 
on our business. We compile all identified 
risks on an integrated risk register that  
catalogs actions for managing or 
mitigating each risk. 
Transition Risks
Transition risks are the risks associated 
with the rate of change in policy actions, 
technologies or market conditions aimed 
at the emission reductions, energy 
efficiencies, subsidies or taxes that may be 
needed to achieve climate-related aims. In 
order to assess a broad range of transition 
risks, and as an integral part of our planning 
cycle, we now conduct an annual scenario-
based carbon asset risk assessment, as 
discussed on pages 42–45.
Physical Risks 
Hess considers the physical risks 
associated with climate change – such 
as increased severity of storms, drought 
and flooding – for both new projects 
and existing operations through our 
ERM and value assurance processes. 
For example, meteorological and 
oceanographic studies undertaken for 
offshore developments include modeling 
that incorporates assumptions from 
the latest climate change science. 
Mitigations to address changing storm 
magnitude are incorporated into the 
design of our facilities, and severe 
weather management and business 
continuity plans are maintained for 
severe weather events such as Hurricane 
Harvey, a Category 4 storm that caused 
widespread flooding and damage to the 
Houston area in 2017.We also assess how climate change may 
impact water availability and water stress 
in the areas we operate using the World 
Resources Institute’s Aqueduct Tool.
In 2019, we began an evaluation of our 
approach to physical risk assessment 
to inform enhancements to our process, 
including how it is incorporated into 
our wider ERM process. As part of this 
effort, we have commenced an in-
depth pilot assessment of our Gulf of 
Mexico operations, which will consider 
the potential impact to our facilities and 
infrastructure – including logistics and 
export – as well as how these may be 
affected by predicted future climate 
change scenarios (e.g., increasing storm 
intensity, coastal flooding, etc.). This work 
is still ongoing, and it is our intention to 
incorporate the learnings from the pilot 
into the risk management processes 
across our operated assets.
We also maintain insurance coverage 
for physical damage to our property and 
liability related to negative environmental 
effects resulting from a sudden and 
accidental pollution event, excluding 
Atlantic Named Windstorm coverage,  
for which we are self-insured. The amount 
of insurance covering physical damage is 
based on the asset’s estimated replacement 
value or the estimated maximum loss.
Reputational Risks
The TCFD has identified climate change 
as a potential source of reputational risk 
or opportunity for companies. According 
to the TCFD, the types of reputational risk 
and opportunity posed by climate change 
can include:
•  Shifts in consumer preferences
•  Stigmatization of a sector
•  Increased stakeholder concern or  
negative stakeholder feedback
(Continued on page 46)42CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY
Carbon Asset Risk Assessment
The IEA 2019 World Energy Outlook’s Three Main Scenarios
• The Current Policies Scenario is the business-as-usual case.
•  The Stated Policies Scenario incorporates energy policy and implementing measures affecting energy markets that may have  
been adopted (chie fly the Nationally Determined Contributions – i.e., the emission reductions agreed to by individual countries 
under the Paris Agreement), even though specific measures necessary to put them into effect may need to be fully developed   
and implemented.
•  The Sustainable Development Scenario re flects a pathway to achieving key energy-related components of the U.N. Sustainable 
Development Agenda – including universal access to modern energy by 2030, urgent action to tackle climate change and 
measures to improve poor air quality – and is consistent with limiting the rise in global average temperature to below 1.8°C            
at a 66% probability or 1.65°C stabilization at a 50% probability, without any recourse to net-negative emissions.Climate-related issues have evolved from an environmental 
concern to also include financial considerations. Our 
stakeholders have therefore expressed an interest in 
understanding how Hess’ oil and gas portfolio might be 
impacted by a transition to a lower carbon economy. Although 
an energy transition to a lower carbon economy is underway, it 
is widely considered that there are multiple pathways to achieve 
this transition, creating uncertainty as to trajectories to a low 
carbon environment and the pace and scale of change.
To help quantify climate-related risks and opportunities – and to 
provide perspectives to our investors and other key stakeholders 
– Hess conducts an annual scenario planning exercise as a 
methodology to assess portfolio resilience over the longer     
term. This scenario-based approach allows us to assess and 
communicate to our shareholders our understanding of future 
risks and opportunities in relation to the potential evolution of 
energy demand and mix, the emergence of new technologies, and 
possible changes by policymakers with respect to GHG emissions.
Because the TCFD recommends transparency around key 
parameters, assumptions and analytical choices, Hess has 
chosen to model the three main scenarios detailed in the IEA’s 
2019 World Energy Outlook against our own internal base 
planning case. Furthermore, the TCFD recommends that 
organizations use a 2°C, or lower, scenario to test portfolio 
resilience – in other words, a scenario under which global 
warming is kept to well below a 2°C increase compared with 
preindustrial levels. Such scenarios usually feature reductions    
in demand for oil, natural gas and coal; growth in clean 
technologies; and a reshaping of trade flows, among other 
assumptions. The Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS) in 
the IEA’s 2019 WEO, which is part of Hess’s modeling, fits within 
this recommendation.
Considerations for Carbon Risk Scenario Assessment
To evaluate the potential exposure of our portfolio to transition 
risks in a carbon-constrained future, we began by considering 
the long range outlook for energy supply and demand, as well as 
for oil, gas and carbon prices. We have used the IEA’s 2019 WEO 
to examine supply and demand and oil, gas and carbon price 
scenarios through 2040 in the Current Policies Scenario and the 
Stated Policies Scenario, and through 2050 in the SDS, which 
are the years through which these respective IEA scenarios extend (see www.iea.org/weo2019/). These scenarios are 
recognized as a leading industry standard and benchmark 
worldwide, and are, therefore, an appropriate choice for an       
oil and gas producer such as Hess.
Such scenarios and therefore our own assessment of carbon   
risk are premised on a longer term view of energy supply and 
demand. We expect that recent events related to the global 
COVID-19 pandemic and near term global oversupply of oil     
will have a short term impact on the various IEA energy supply     
and demand scenarios as published in the 2019 WEO. In 2020,         
we plan to update our scenario analysis to reflect the IEA’s 
interpretation of the impact of recent market conditions            
on its longer term forecasts. 
According to the IEA, the emphasis on strong early action and  
the subsequent rapid reduction in emissions means that the SDS 
is aligned with the Paris Agreement objective to hold temperature 
rise to well below 2°C, while pursuing efforts to limit the 
temperature increase to 1.5°C. If technologies that remove 
carbon from the atmosphere (i.e., those that allow for “negative” 
emissions) were to be deployed at scale in the second half of the 
21st century, then the SDS would provide a 50% chance of a 1.5°C 
outcome (see the IEA chart on the following page). The 
cumulative level of net emissions required to do this would   
be less than the median level in the 1.5°C scenario assessed  
by the IPCC.
The group of three charts on the next page depicts the 2019 
WEO’s world energy demand and CO2 emissions under the IEA’s 
three main scenarios. 
In the Stated Policies Scenario, which is the IEA’s central scenario, 
worldwide energy use is expected to grow by approximately 24% 
between 2018 and 2040 (see the IEA chart on the following page). 
While there is a decline in demand for coal, oil and natural gas in 
this scenario between 2018 and 2040 – most notably in the 
European Union (E.U.) – it is offset by increased demand elsewhere 
during that same period. Ultimately, demand for oil and gas is 
projected to grow in the Stated Policies Scenario by 9% and 26%, 
respectively, over that period and account for 53% of the energy 
mix in 2040, down only slightly from 54% today. 
In the Sustainable Development Scenario (consistent with 
limiting the rise in global average temperature to well below 43
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT2°C), worldwide energy use is projected to experience a modest 
decline of 7% between 2018 and 2040. Oil and gas are still 
expected to account for nearly half of the energy mix (47%). 
While the Sustainable Development Scenario projects lower 
oil demand in the 2040 timeframe, the IEA states that 
“continued investment in both new and existing oil fields, 
even as overall production declines in line with climate goals, 
is a necessary part of the energy transition envisaged in the 
SDS” (2019 WEO, page 95).
In terms of the continuing upstream oil and gas investment 
required to meet such demand, in the Stated Policies 
Scenario annual spending averages $650 billion between 
2019 and 2030 and $730 billion thereafter. In the Sustainable 
Development Scenario, although fewer new developments 
are required, continuing investment in both new and existing oil and gas fields remains an essential element of the energy 
transition. Approximately $510 billion is estimated to be 
spent on average each year between 2019 and 2030, while 
$390 billion is spent between 2030 and 2040. 
In contrast, since the oil price crash of 2014, upstream oil and 
gas investment has been curtailed. Investment has ranged 
between $350 billion in 2016 and $420 billion in 2019, with 
investment for 2020 now expected to be further reduced to 
between $300 billion and $350 billion. Even with a major 
capital reallocation from fuels to power, the IEA’s Sustainable 
Development Scenario requires upstream oil and gas investment 
over the next decade significantly above the average over the 
past five years. The oil and gas industry is a long cycle business, 
such that this continued underinvestment is a risk that could 
manifest itself as a medium term supply gap, where recent levels 
of investment are insufficient to meet medium term demand.
World Primary Energy Demand by Fuel, and Energy-Related Carbon Dioxide Emissions, by IEA Scenario
■Coal ■Oil ■Gas ■Nuclear ■Renewables CO2 Emissions ■Solid Biomass2040 2000Current Policies Stated Policies Sustainable DevelopmentThousand Mtoe
Gt
05101525
20
0510152025
2040 2030 2018 20000510152025
2040 2030 2018 20000.006.2512.5018.7525.00
2040 2030 2018 200001020304050
01020304050
0102030405001020304050
2018 2030 2040 2000 2018 2030 2040 2000 2018 2030
Gigatons of Carbon DioxideBillion Tons of Oil Equivalent
-600-3000300600900
Middle
EastIndia United
StatesAfrica Russia China SE
AsiaE.U.
Coal Oil Gas Change in Demand ■ ■ ■Million Tons of Oil EquivalentChange in Production of and Demand for Coal, Oil and Natural 
Gas in Selected Regions in the Stated Policies Scenario,  
2018–2040Million Tons of Oil Equivalent
2000 2020 2040 2060 2080 2100-150153045Gigatons of Carbon DioxideSustainable Development Scenario
1.5°C with no 
negative emissionsFrom SDS toward 1.8°C
From SDS toward 1.5°CGigatons of Carbon DioxideTrajectories for Total CO2 Emissions in the Sustainable 
Development Scenario and to Limit Warming to 1.5°C44CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY
Carbon Asset Risk Assessment, continued
Hess’ Approach to Scenario Planning 
The TCFD recommends that, once a below 2°C scenario is 
established, companies should define a base case or business-as-
usual outlook for the future. The base case should use the same 
set of metrics as the below 2°C scenario (e.g., oil demand, carbon 
prices and other market factors) and share the same fundamental 
economic foundations. Establishing multiple scenarios allows 
measurement of the delta between metrics at future points to 
properly understand the envelope within which risk and 
opportunity may occur.
Hess’ approach to scenario planning is aligned with the TCFD 
recommendations. We have prepared internal guidance that 
details our approach and establishes a specified methodology. 
This also serves as a roadmap for our external verifier to review 
and verify that we followed our specified methodology when 
conducting this scenario analysis. 
Our first step in this process was to establish a Hess base case, 
which for 2019 was premised off a long term $60 per barrel Brent 
and $2.75 per million British thermal units (MMBtu) Henry Hub 
natural gas price, both in 2020 real terms. In addition, we applied 
either actual carbon pricing for our assets and intended forward 
investments where a regulatory framework for such exists, or a 
sustained $40 per tonne cost of CO2. Hess’ base case was then 
compared against the various oil, natural gas and carbon prices in 
the IEA’s three main scenarios – Current Policies, Stated Policies 
and Sustainable Development – running our current asset 
portfolio and intended forward investments through these 
varying sets of assumptions to assess financial robustness.
The three charts below show the oil, natural gas and CO2 prices 
under the IEA’s Current Policies, Stated Policies and Sustainable 
Development scenarios against Hess’ base case. As these charts 
show, there is a wide spread of oil, natural gas and carbon pricing 
across the three IEA scenarios, a key ingredient for informative 
scenario planning.
Results of the Hess Scenario Planning Exercise
Through our methodology, we have tested the robustness of 
Hess’ asset portfolio and intended forward investments under 
multiple energy scenarios, including the IEA’s Sustainable 
Development Scenario. We note that the latter is aligned with the Paris Agreement’s aim of limiting the rise in the global 
average temperature to well below 2°C, as the scenario 
incorporates a 66% probability of 1.8°C stabilization and a 
50% probability of a 1.65°C stabilization, without any recourse 
to net-negative emissions.
In the chart above, the first column shows the net present value 
(NPV) of the Hess portfolio under our base case commodity  
and CO2 price assumptions, normalized to 100%, and the second 
column shows the NPV of the Hess portfolio under the IEA’s 
Sustainable Development Scenario and CO2 price assumptions 
as an index to the Hess base case. The NPV of the Hess portfolio 
under the IEA’s Sustainable Development Scenario assumptions 
is 20% higher than under the Hess base case assumptions. 
This result demonstrates the robustness of Hess’ portfolio against 
even the most challenging of the IEA’s scenarios, aligned with 
the goals of the Paris Agreement, driven by our conservative 
planning assumptions as they relate to commodity prices and 
the competitive pipeline of future investments in our portfolio.
050100150200
02468
04080120160050100150200
02468
04080120160
2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040U.S. Dollars per Barrel, 2020 Real Terms
U.S. Dollars per MMBtu, 2020 Real Terms
U.S. Dollars per Tonne, 2020 Real Terms
2020 2025 2030 2035 2040Crude Oil Price Natural Gas Price CO2 Price
Hess Base Case
IEA Current 
Policies Scenario
IEA Stated 
Policies Scenario
IEA Sustainable 
Development ScenerioHess Portfolio NPV Index*
50.00000073.33333396.666667120.000000
IEA Sustainable
Development ScenarioHess Base
Case5075100125
100120
20%% Percent
*The NPV index normalizes the value of the Hess portfolio under Hess’ base case 
to 100%, and indexes the value of the Hess portfolio under the IEA’s Sustainable 
Development Scenario to the Hess base case.45
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTHess Bakken Locations with Investment  
Rate of Return of 15% or Higher
Gross Number of Economic Locations at Various WTI Prices**Top Offshore and Shale Plays*
Breakeven WTI
Hess Base Case
IEA Current 
Policies Scenario
IEA Stated 
Policies Scenario
IEA Sustainable 
Development ScenerioValidation of Hess Strategy
With the lower oil demand assumed in the IEA’s Sustainable 
Development Scenario, industry competition may intensify,  
and some higher cost producers may be forced out of the 
marketplace. We therefore believe our scenario analysis 
validates Hess’ strategic priorities to focus investment on       
high return, low cost oil and gas opportunities and to build          
a focused and balanced portfolio, robust at low prices.
We believe this strategy is consistent with the IEA’s Sustainable 
Development Scenario, which envisions a meaningful role for oil 
and gas through 2040, when oil and gas are still projected to 
account for 47% of global primary energy demand.
Although recent events and market conditions have necessitated 
major reductions to our 2020 capital and exploratory budget, 
longer term, Hess plans to allocate the majority of our capital 
expenditures to developing the company’s growth assets 
offshore Guyana and in the Bakken shale play in North Dakota. 
Our offshore oil discoveries in Guyana are among the industry’s 
largest and lowest cost discoveries made globally over the last 
decade. The Liza Phase 1 and Phase 2 developments have industry 
leading long term oil price breakeven costs of $35 and $25 per 
barrel Brent oil respectively, which more than meet Hess’ 
investment hurdle rate. They also have rapid investment payback 
plus strong cash flow generation under a range of oil prices, 
thereby underpinning and validating Hess’ strategy. In the Bakken, 
Hess has approximately 1,900 locations that can generate at least 
a 15% internal rate of return at $50 per barrel West Texas 
Intermediate (WTI). That equates to greater than 60 rig-years  
for the company, assuming one rig drills 30 wells per year.
We expect that the combination of Guyana’s extremely low 
breakeven costs along with aggressive cost reduction activities   
in the Bakken will contribute substantially to structurally lowering 
our portfolio breakeven costs. As a result, Hess is well positioned 
for the long term to retain our share in the marketplace as a low 
cost producer, even with the gradually reducing global oil 
demand projected under the IEA’s SDS. In summary, based on the results of our 2019 scenario planning 
analysis, we conclude that it is highly unlikely any of our assets 
would be “stranded” by the CO2 pricing under even the most 
ambitious of the IEA scenarios – the Sustainable Development 
Scenario, which is consistent with the aim of the Paris Agreement. 
The IEA is clear in its conclusions that oil and gas will continue    
to remain a key part of the world’s energy solution for many 
decades to come. And, based on this scenario planning exercise 
and Hess’ strategic priority of being among the lowest cost oil 
producers, we believe that during the projected period we can 
continue to monetize our reserves and deliver strong 
performance under a wide range of market conditions.
Invest Only 
in High Return, 
Low Cost 
Opportunities
Build a Focused & 
Balanced Portfolio
– Robust at 
Low Prices
Maintain Financial
Strength and 
Manage for RiskPrioritize Return
of Capital to
Shareholders
Grow Free Cash
 Flow in a Disciplined, 
Reliable MannerCOMMITMENT TO 
SUSTAINABILITYHess Strategic Priorities
U.S. GOM0102030405060Breakeven WTI (U.S. Dollars per Barrel)
0102030405060
Powder River Cotton ValleyJ. CastbergMontneyBakkenZama
SCOOP/STBrazil
Eagle FordNW ShelfSJ Basin DJ Basin J. SverdupVikingPermianJubileeLizaGuyana (Liza) breakeven is the lowest of major 
offshore developments and shale playsBreakeven WTI (U.S. Dollars per Barrel)
*RS Energy Group, Offshore First Class: The L.I.Z.A Framework , January 2018. Onshore single well 
breakeven costs include facility costs and general and administrative costs and exclude acquisition costs.$50/bbl $60/bbl $70/bbl $80/bbl $40/bbl9001,9002,7002,950>3,000
~63 ~90 ~98 >100 ~30WTI
Rig
Years**
**Point forward January 2019, locations generating higher than 15% after tax return. 
Assumes approximately 30 wells per rig-year. Includes Middle Bakken and Three Forks.46CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY
Reputational Risks, continued 
In 2019, to address this potential risk as 
identified by the TCFD, Hess undertook an 
exercise to measure the potential impacts 
of changes in corporate reputation (driven 
by climate change risks and opportunities) 
on Hess’ market valuation. Our analysis 
attempted to use a Capital Asset Pricing 
Model (CAPM) to calibrate the historical 
relationship between the stock price return 
of Hess to changes in our RepRisk score, 
oil prices and Standard and Poor’s Oil and 
Gas Stock Price Index. RepRisk – a global 
data science company focused on due 
diligence of material environmental, social 
and governance (ESG) risks – produces 
a quantitative summary of the ESG risk 
exposure of a company, including climate-
related risks. RepRisk’s assessment of the 
ESG risk exposure of a company is based 
on the company’s activities observed by 
media, stakeholders and third-party sources 
and excludes information provided by the 
company itself. Hess’ current RepRisk score 
of 19 (as of May 2019), places our company 
in the low risk exposure category, which is 
comparable to or better than most other oil 
and gas companies.
The goal of our analysis was to measure 
the potential impact of changes in 
RepRisk scores for Hess resulting from 
the publication of a series of historical 
news articles related to climate change 
risks and then correlate this impact to 
a change in market valuation for Hess. 
The CAPM model showed a moderately 
statistically significant correlation between 
our stock price and our RepRisk score, 
when general market conditions were 
assumed to be held constant; however, 
this did not result in substantial changes 
in Hess’ market valuation. While we found 
this exercise helpful, measuring and valuing 
reputational risks and opportunities is 
challenging because of the difficulty of 
isolating the long term climate change-
related reputation impacts from other 
company-specific, industry-related and stock market fluctuations. In addition, we 
found that these types of climate-related 
risks, for the most part, have already been 
identified through Hess’ ERM process 
and are being managed and mitigated 
through that process. Going forward, we 
will continue to explore more tangible ways 
to quantify reputational risk.
METRICS AND TARGETS 
As part of Hess’ climate change strategy, 
we have established three targets aligned 
with the TCFD’s criteria for target setting. 
We have committed to:
•  Reduce the GHG emissions intensity of 
our operated assets by 25% by 2020 
(versus a 2014 emissions baseline)
•  Reduce the flaring intensity of our 
operated assets by 50% by 2020 
(versus a 2014 emissions baseline)
•  Lower methane emissions intensity from 
our U.S. onshore upstream operations to 
less than 0.47% by 2025
The 2019 WEO’s updated Sustainable 
Development Scenario, similar to their 2018 
SDS, requires an ambitious 21% carbon 
intensity reduction by 2030 in order to be 
consistent with a less than 2°C aim. This 
21% carbon intensity reduction figure is 
derived from the Sustainable Development 
Scenario’s CO2 emissions divided by 
primary world energy demand in 2030 
versus 2017. Hess’ 25% GHG intensity 
reduction target, referenced above, which 
was set in 2015 and is based on our 
operated Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 
divided by production, exceeds the IEA’s 
Sustainable Development Scenario goal of 
a 21% carbon intensity reduction by 2030 
and is therefore consistent with the Paris 
Agreement’s 2°C ambition.
Based on the Hess GHG Inventory 
Protocol, which is published on our 
company website, and as part of our target 
setting process, we restated our 2014 
baseline and subsequent years’ emissions 
in our 2018 Sustainability Report to remove the impact of the divestitures that took 
place in 2017 and 2018. However, we have 
maintained our commitment to achieving 
our original 25% GHG emissions intensity 
and 50% flaring intensity reduction targets.
In the operated GHG emissions and flaring 
charts that follow, we reference divested 
assets for the purpose of continuity. All 
target-related discussions are based on 
restated numbers, which remove the 
impact of the divestitures. 
GREENHOUSE GAS PERFORMANCE 
We report GHG emissions from our 
oil and gas assets on both operated 
and equity bases. Our GHG emission 
estimates include carbon dioxide, 
methane and nitrous oxide – reported 
in units of carbon dioxide equivalent 
(CO2e). In 2014, Hess began using 
global warming potentials based on the 
values in the Fourth Assessment Report: 
Climate Change 2007 (AR-4), prepared 
by the IPCC, to estimate CO2e totals.
Approximately 94% of Hess’ direct 
reported (Scope 1) operated GHG 
emissions are from stationary 
combustion sources such as flaring, 
heaters, turbines and engines. The 
factors used to estimate emissions for 
these sources enterprisewide are those 
prescribed by the U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency (EPA) in its GHG 
Mandatory Reporting Rule (40 CFR Part 
98, Subpart C). The remaining 6% of 
our reported operated GHG emissions 
are from a variety of noncombustion 
and fugitive emission sources such 
as storage tanks, compressor seals, 
pneumatic pumps and valves. For such 
sources at onshore facilities, we use the 
emission factors prescribed by the U.S. 
EPA in its GHG Mandatory Reporting 
Rule (40 CFR Part 98, Subpart W). 
Hess uses other appropriate regulatory 
or industry-specific factors to estimate 
fugitive emissions for all other facilities.47
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTWe also report indirect emissions 
associated with purchased electricity 
(Scope 2) and other indirect (Scope 3) 
emissions. 
Operated Emissions (Scopes 1 and 2)
In 2019, of the estimated 4.3 million 
tonnes of gross GHG emissions reported 
from our operated oil and gas assets, 
3.9 million tonnes were Scope 1 emissions, 
primarily from flaring and fuel combustion, 
and approximately 0.4 million tonnes 
were Scope 2 emissions, from purchased 
electricity. Process operations (primarily 
fuel combustion) and flaring accounted 
for 34% and 60% of our Scope 1 GHG 
emissions, respectively.
In 2019, our absolute GHG emissions 
increased by 0.4 million tonnes 
compared with 2018, due primarily 
to increased production of 21 million 
barrels of oil equivalent from our North 
Dakota operations. However, because 
our production increased at a higher 
rate than our absolute emissions, our 
cumulative GHG emissions intensity 
through 2019 (i.e., tonnes of emissions 
per thousand barrels of oil equivalent 
(BOE)) decreased by 26% compared to 
our 2014 baseline.
Equity Emissions (Scopes 1, 2 and 3)
Since 2007, Hess has tracked GHG 
emissions from our operated and 
nonoperated oil and gas assets based 
on our equity interest. The graphs on 
the next page detail our Scope 1, 2 and 
3 emissions from 2008 to 2019 on an 
equity basis. These graphs show that over 
the past 12 years we have reduced our 
absolute Scope 1 and 2 equity emissions 
from 10.8 million tonnes of CO2e to 
4.3 million tonnes, or 60%. During the 
same period, Scope 3 equity emissions 
decreased from 114 million tonnes to 
49 million tonnes of CO2e, or 57%. In total, 
over this period, our combined Scope 1, 
2 and 3 absolute CO2e emissions have decreased 57% through a combination of 
emission reduction initiatives, asset sales 
and refinery shutdowns.
Scope 1 and 2 Equity Emissions
Our major source of Scope 1 and 2 
emissions from nonoperated oil and gas 
assets in 2019 was from the A-18 
Block in the Malaysia/Thailand Joint 
Development Area. Our equity emissions 
from this asset were approximately 
1.2 million tonnes. 
Major sources of emissions from our 
operated assets in 2019 included those 
from the Tioga Gas Plant and our North 
Dakota, North Malay Basin and offshore 
Gulf of Mexico production assets, which 
together accounted for an estimated 
2.5 million tonnes of equity emissions. 
Our other operated and nonoperated 
assets made up the balance of equity 
emissions at an estimated 0.6 million 
tonnes, of which Guyana accounted for 
approximately 0.2 million tonnes from the 
startup of operations in 2019. Our 2019 
Scope 1 and 2 equity emissions were 
approximately 0.4 million tonnes higher 
than in 2018 due primarily to significantly 
increased production in North Dakota and 
the startup of operations in Guyana.
Scope 3 Equity Emissions
Scope 3 GHG emissions are those 
generated from corporate value chain 
activities that are not accounted for and 
reported in our Scope 1 and Scope 2 
emissions. We disclose our Scope 3 
GHG emissions, the vast majority of 
which are from the processing and end 
use of our sold products, on an equity 
basis as described on the next page. 
Unlike fully integrated energy companies 
that are positioned to offer a full range 
of energy products and services directly 
to consumers, Hess, as an exploration 
and production company, has no direct 
control over these Scope 3 emissions. 
We therefore are focusing on scientific Operated Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
(Scopes 1 and 2)Million Tonnes CO2e
GHG Intensity (Tonnes per Thousand BOE)0123456
2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 201405101520253035404550
20160123456
2017 2018Million Tonnes CO2e
GHG  Intensity (Tonnes per Thousand BOE)
2019 2014
0123456
5.4
4.6
4.13.94.3
3034 34 3341
01020304050
■Hess Portfolio
GHG Emissions Intensity (Hess Portfolio)
2020 Target (31 Tonnes per Thousand BOE)Divested Assets0123456
2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 201405101520253035404550
20160123456
2017 2018Million Tonnes CO2e
GHG  Intensity (Tonnes per Thousand BOE)
2019 2014
0123456
5.4
4.6
4.13.94.3
3034 34 3341
01020304050
■Hess Portfolio
GHG Emissions Intensity (Hess Portfolio)
2020 Target (31 Tonnes per Thousand BOE)Divested Assets34% 60%
■■
■Flaring 2,384
Fuel Combustion 1,324
Other 2276%2018 OPERATED SCOPE 1 
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS BY SOURCE
Thousand Tonnes CO2e2019 Operated Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions by Source
Thousand Tonnes CO2e
34% 60%
■■
■Flaring 2,384
Fuel Combustion 1,324
Other 2276%2018 OPERATED SCOPE 1 
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS BY SOURCE
Thousand Tonnes CO2e
2019 Operated Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions by Country
Thousand Tonnes CO2e
7%
4%89%2018 OPERATED SCOPE 1 
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS BY SOURCE
Thousand Tonnes CO2e
■■
■U.S. 3,847
Malaysia 291
Denmark 1987%
4%89%2018 OPERATED SCOPE 1 
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS BY SOURCE
Thousand Tonnes CO2e
■■
■U.S. 3,847
Malaysia 291
Denmark 19848solutions and innovative research 
with the potential to address GHG 
emissions on a global scale. Our support 
of groundbreaking research by the Salk 
Institute on plant based carbon capture 
and storage is described above.
To estimate our Scope 3 emissions, 
we follow the methodology established 
by IPIECA in its 2016 report Estimating 
Petroleum Industry Value Chain (Scope 
3) Greenhouse Gas Emissions. This 
guidance, which is currently the industry 
standard, is based on the World 
Resources Institute’s and World Business 
Council for Sustainable Development’s 
Scope 3 guidance.
Per the IPIECA guidance, we report 
Scope 3 emissions for category 11 
“Use of Sold Products” by calculating 
combustion emissions for our oil, natural 
gas and marketed oil products. We also 
report Scope 3 category 10 “Processing 
of Sold Products” emissions, which 
result from the refining of our crude oil 
production by others.
In 2019, we sold 572 million standard 
cubic feet per day (MMSCFD) of natural 
gas, which, when used by customers, 
accounted for an estimated 11 million 
tonnes of GHG emissions. We sold 
216 thousand barrels per day (MBPD) 
of crude oil, which accounted for another 
34 million tonnes of GHG emissions, for 
an estimated total of 45 million tonnes 
of Scope 3 category 11 emissions. This 
crude oil, when processed by refiners, 
resulted in an additional 4 million tonnes 
of Scope 3 category 10 emissions, which 
brings our total Scope 3 emissions to 49 million tonnes. The 13% increase in 
Scope 3 emissions compared with 2018 
is related to the sale of an additional 
12 million barrels of oil equivalent in 2019.
Although not material, we also track and 
report Scope 3 emissions associated 
with employee business travel. Combined 
emissions from employee business travel 
via commercial air carrier and rail in 2019 
were about 3,500 tonnes of CO2e, a slight 
increase from 2018.
Carbon Offsets
As an element of our EHS & SR strategy, 
we have purchased carbon credits annually 
since 2010 to offset at least 100% of 
our Scope 3 business travel emissions 
(approximately 3,500 tonnes in 2019). In 
2019, for the second year, we also offset 
100% of our Scope 1 emissions associated 
with operating the company’s truck fleet, 
aviation activities (aircraft and helicopters) 
and personal and rental vehicle miles driven 
while on company business (approximately 
11,800 tonnes in 2019).
We purchased 15,340 tonnes of carbon 
credits from 3Degrees, for the retirement 
of offsets related to a third-party landfill 
gas to energy project in Montana. This 
contribution offset 100% of the GHG 
emissions we estimate were generated 
from our business travel and company 
operated truck fleet, aviation activities 
and vehicle miles driven in 2019 (Scopes 
1 and 3).
EMISSION REDUCTION INITIATIVES
In support of our GHG emission and 
flaring intensity reduction targets, we 
track and monitor air emissions at each CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY
Equity Greenhouse Gas  
Emissions (Scope 3)
Million Tonnes CO2eMillion Tonnes CO2e
2016 2017 2018 2019 2008020406080100120Million Tonnes CO2e114
5249
4349■U.S. Virgin 
Islands■U.S.
Malaysia/■
  Thailand■Indonesia■Russia■Azerbaijan■Libya
■Gabon■Equatorial
Guinea■Algeria■Denmark■Norway■U.K.10.8
4.03.94.3
2017 2018 2019 2008024681012
4.2
2016
  Thailand■
■GuyanaEquity Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
(Scopes 1 and 2) by Country
Million Tonnes CO2eMillion Tonnes CO2eContribution to the Salk Institute’s Development of Plant-Based Carbon Capture and Storage
As an additional measure beyond our GHG emission reduction target, which is currently focused on our operated Scope 1 and 2 
emissions, we are pursuing ways to help mitigate climate change on a global scale. In early 2020, we announced a gift of $12.5 million 
over five years to help fund the Salk Institute’s Harnessing Plants Initiative research and development program. The aim is to develop 
plants with larger root systems that, according to the Salk Institute, are capable of absorbing and storing potentially billions of tons of 
carbon per year from the atmosphere. The initiative is being run by leading biologists and chemists in the fields of plant genetics and 
biochemistry and builds on their discovery of a crucial gene to enhance the natural abilities of plants to store CO2.
Note: Our 2019 equity Scope 3 emissions were comprised of 45 million 
tonnes of CO2e from use of sold products, and 4 million tonnes from 
processing of sold products.49
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTof our assets and undertake a variety of 
emission reduction initiatives. Our efforts 
focus on our largest-emitting facilities and 
on opportunities that are technically and 
economically feasible and where we are 
able to achieve stakeholder approval.
Flaring
In 2019, flaring from Hess operated assets 
totaled 71 MMSCFD, an increase of 20 
MMSCFD compared with 2018, primarily 
related to significantly increased production 
from our North Dakota operations. We are 
taking multiple steps, which are described 
below, to mitigate this flaring increase and 
to drive significant flaring reductions in the 
next few years.
On an intensity basis, we have reduced our 
cumulative flaring intensity by 35% through 
2019, compared with our 2014 baseline. 
In North Dakota, exceptional well 
performance driven by a change in 
completion strategy (using plug and 
perf completions instead of the previous 
multistage sliding sleeve design) resulted 
in a significant increase in initial production 
rates, which in turn required additional short 
term flaring to maintain safe operations. 
Additionally, delays in the construction 
and commissioning of the Little Missouri 
Four gas plant (discussed further at right) 
caused higher than expected flaring during 
the year. Although flaring rates increased 
year on year, rates have remained within 
regulatory limits and are comparable to our 
peers and top producers in the Bakken.  
Although more than $3 billion has been 
spent on midstream infrastructure in 
North Dakota over the past eight years, 
our strong production performance has 
outpaced our buildout of infrastructure 
to process the significant increase in gas 
production. 
Through our subsidiary, Hess Midstream 
LP , we are committed to and are 
aggressively executing significant capital 
projects to increase gas capture rates and 
reduce flaring in the Bakken region.•  The Tioga Gas Plant is quickly reaching 
full capacity. The gas plant is planned 
to be shut down in the third quarter of 
2020 to complete a turnaround; the 
shutdown will allow for the completion 
of required maintenance and a planned 
expansion project of approximately 
$150 million to increase plant capacity 
from 250 MMSCFD to 400 MMSCFD 
and to process a combination of 
additional Hess and third-party natural 
gas that is currently being flared.  
•  Much of our gas produced south of the 
Missouri River prior to 2019 had to be 
flared due to insufficient gas capture and 
processing facilities. Hess Midstream LP 
partnered with Targa Resources to build 
a new $200 million gas plant – the Little 
Missouri Four gas plant – which came 
online in August 2019 and can process 
up to 200 MMSCFD of natural gas that 
had previously been flared.  
•  Over the last 18 months, Hess Midstream 
LP has added approximately 140 
MMSCFD of additional gas compression 
capacity. We built two new compression 
stations at Blue Buttes and East Nesson 
and added two additional compressors, 
each, at the Wheelock, Sorkness and 
Myrtle compressor stations, which will 
significantly expand our ability to bring 
more natural gas to market. 
Over the next several years, we plan to 
continue to pursue additional natural gas 
processing and compression capacity, 
which will help to alleviate flaring intensity  
in the region.
At many of our production facilities, 
Hess relies on third parties to provide 
the gas gathering and processing 
infrastructure that is needed to mitigate 
gas flaring. In 2019, the rate of gas 
capture by third-party gathering and 
processing facilities was less than 
expected. We are exploring additional 
commercial arrangements to improve 
third-party gas gathering and processing capacity in an attempt to mitigate 
additional flaring.
In addition, the following ongoing 
activities are designed to reduce flaring.
Natural Gas Capture
We have continued to use technology 
developed through our partnership with 
GTUIT – a designer, manufacturer and 
operator of well site natural gas capture 
and natural gas liquid (NGL) extraction 
equipment – to recover high BTU gas 
from locations in North Dakota that were 
previously flaring this raw, wet natural 
gas. The GTUIT equipment successfully 
addresses some of the technical challenges 
associated with capturing NGLs from the 
Bakken gas – the units are modular and 
mobile, they can operate reliably unmanned 
and they can adapt to the ever-changing 
flow conditions of the well and the 
changing chemistry of the associated gas.
In 2019, we operated 11 GTUIT mobile 
units and two ColdStream energy recovery 
units (14 MMSCFD of capacity in total), 
allowing us to capture 7.2 million gallons 
of NGLs. As a result, about 513 MMSCF 
of gas flaring was avoided, and CO2e 
emissions were reduced by an estimated 
44,661 tonnes. This project provides dual 
economic and environmental benefits, as it 
converts gas into marketable products as 
Hess Flaring Rates
020406080100120
2020 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014
050100150200250300350
2018 2017 2016 2015 2014
2016 2017 2018 2019 2014020406080100Flaring (MMSCFD)
Flaring Intensity (SCF per BOE)7499
60 5171
■Hess Portfolio
2020 Target (138 SCF per BOE) Flaring Intensity (Current Hess Portfolio)Divested Assets180
163 164 174276
050100150200250300Flaring (MMSCFD)
Flaring Intensity (SCF per BOE)50CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY
well as reduces the amount of gas flared 
and the associated air emissions.
Offshore Flare Recovery System
In 2012, we commissioned a flare recovery 
system for the offshore platform at our 
South Arne asset in Denmark. The primary 
intent of installing the system was to 
reduce GHG emissions and subsequently 
the quantity of CO2 allowances that 
would need to be purchased to meet 
regulatory requirements. The $3.7 million 
system reroutes gas from the flare to a 
compressor to be utilized as lift gas or fuel 
gas and works optimally when the offshore 
operation incurs steady production with 
minimal upset events. Primarily through 
the use of this system, flaring at our South 
Arne operations has been reduced by 
80% between 2015 and 2019.
    See additional examples of emission 
reduction initiatives at hess.com/
sustainability/climate-change-energy/
emission-reduction-initiatives   
ENERGY USE
Reducing our energy use has the dual 
benefit of lowering costs and GHG 
emissions, and it is a central focus of 
both our EHS & SR strategy and our Lean 
approach to managing the business. We 
generate and purchase energy primarily 
for power, processing, heating and cooling. 
In 2019, energy consumption from Hess 
operated assets was approximately 28 million gigajoules, 8% lower than in 
2018. This reduced energy usage was 
primarily related to selectively replacing 
aging gas-fired compressor stations in 
North Dakota with electric compression. 
Seventy-seven percent of Hess’ energy 
use was directly generated from our 
operations, primarily at the Tioga Gas 
Plant and at our production facilities in 
North Dakota, the North Malay Basin, 
Denmark and the Gulf of Mexico. The 
remaining 23% was indirect energy (i.e., 
energy used by utilities to provide net 
purchased electricity) purchased for our 
North Dakota production operations and 
the Tioga Gas Plant.
In 2019, our U.S. operations accounted 
for all of our purchased electricity – 
approximately 700,000 megawatt hours 
(MWh), or a 17% increase from last 
year, primarily attributable to increased 
production in North Dakota and the 
conversion of new compressor stations from gas to electric compression. Based 
on U.S. electricity generation profiles, we 
estimate that approximately 25% of this 
electricity was generated from renewable 
sources, primarily wind power. We also 
support renewable energy through the 
purchase of renewable energy certificates 
(RECs), so that in total 100% of the 
net electricity used in our operations 
is attributable to renewable sources. 
To offset our purchased electricity that 
came from nonrenewable sources, we 
purchased 530,714 Green-e Energy 
certified RECs for wind power, equivalent 
to 530,714 MWh or about 75% of the 
electricity purchased for our operated 
exploration and production assets in 
2019. In total, including the RECs, 100% 
of our indirect energy use came from 
renewable sources.
    See more detail on our purchased electricity 
use at hess.com/sustainability/climate-
change-energy/energy-use■  Direct  
■  Indirect05000100001500020000250003000035000
05,00010,00015,00020,00025,00030,00035,000
2019 2018 201733,121
30,653
28,182Energy Use 
Thousand Gigajoules
Optical Gas Imaging, North Dakota51
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTManaging Methane Emissions
In recent years, advancements in shale energy technology have 
generated a significant increase in the supply of low cost natural 
gas. As a cleaner-burning fuel, natural gas can play a critical role 
in the transition to a low carbon economy. However, there is 
considerable debate about fugitive methane leakage along the 
natural gas value chain, which may have the potential to reduce 
the fuel’s climate benefits.
Hess is actively pursuing voluntary methane emission reductions 
as part of our EHS & SR strategy. As one aspect of this effort, 
Hess became a founding member of the ONE Future Coalition,     
a group of companies from across the natural gas industry 
focused on identifying policy and technical solutions that        
yield continuous improvement in the management of methane 
emissions associated with the production, processing, 
transportation and distribution of natural gas. ONE Future 
offers a performance-based, flexible approach that is expected 
to yield significant reductions in methane emissions. The goal 
is to voluntarily lower methane emissions to less than 1% of gross 
methane production across the U.S. value chain by 2025.
Peer-reviewed analyses indicate that a leak/loss rate of 1% or    
less across the U.S. natural gas value chain provides immediate 
GHG reduction benefits.
To achieve this goal, ONE Future has established 2025 methane 
emission rate targets for each sector of the natural gas value 
chain: production (0.28%), gathering and boosting (0.08%), 
processing (0.11%), transmission and storage (0.30%) and 
distribution (0.22%), which cumulatively total to the 1% target.
In 2018, the ONE Future members’ cumulative methane emissions 
intensity was 0.33% across the U.S. onshore natural gas value 
chain, down from 0.55% in 2017. ONE Future has also set interim 
2020 sectoral targets.
Hess has activities in three of the ONE Future sectors: production, 
gathering and boosting, and processing. In 2019, we reduced our 
methane emissions rate across all sectors. For production our 
methane emissions rate was 0.35%, for gathering and boosting it 
was 0.14% and for processing it was 0.03%. Our total onshore U.S. 
methane intensity was 0.52%, which is below the ONE Future 
combined 2020 interim target of 0.64% for those three sectors, 
but slightly above the 2025 target of 0.47%. Our relative methane 
intensity decreased in 2019. This drop is correlated with the 
continued implementation of our leak detection and repair 
(LDAR) program across all of our production facilities (existing 
and new) in North Dakota and our program to phase out high 
bleed pneumatic controllers. We anticipate that we will achieve 
the ONE Future targets by 2025.
Our combined U.S. methane emissions intensity across our 
onshore and offshore operations was 0.27%, while our global 
methane intensity in 2019 was 0.15%.
In a related voluntary effort, in 2017 Hess became one of the 
founding participants in the Environmental Partnership. A key 
activity of the Environmental Partnership is furthering action       
to reduce air emissions, including methane and volatile organic 
compound emissions (VOCs), associated with natural gas and oil 
production. To accomplish this, the Environmental Partnership developed three separate Environmental Performance Programs 
for participating companies to implement and phase into their 
operations starting January 1, 2018. Hess is implementing the   
two programs applicable to our operations in North Dakota,        
as follows:
•  Leak Program for Natural Gas and Oil Production Sources: 
Participants will implement monitoring and timely repair of 
fugitive emissions at selected sites utilizing detection methods 
and technologies such as U.S. EPA Method 21 or optical gas 
imaging cameras. Hess conducted semiannual surveys at 869 
sites in 2019.
•  Program to Replace, Remove or Retrofit High Bleed Pneumatic 
Controllers: Participants will replace, remove or retrofit high 
bleed pneumatic controllers with low or zero emitting devices 
within five years. After identifying 248 high bleed pneumatic 
controllers remaining in our North Dakota operations, we have 
begun phasing them out of service. In 2019 and early 2020, we 
took 86 high bleed pneumatic controllers out of service; we plan 
to phase the remaining out by 2022.
The third program, involving manual liquids unloading for natural 
gas production sources, is not applicable to Hess, as we do not 
currently operate any natural gas-only production wells.
In addition to these programs, the Environmental Partnership 
provides a platform for industry to collaborate with stakeholders 
and learn from one another. So far, Partnership companies have 
made significant progress, including eliminating or retrofitting 
more than 28,000 high bleed pneumatic controllers and 
conducting more than 156,000 leak detection surveys. 
In order to meet both our ONE Future and Environmental 
Partnership commitments, in 2019 we continued implementation 
of our LDAR program across all of our production facilities 
(existing and new) in North Dakota and at the Tioga Gas Plant 
in North Dakota.
    Further detail on our LDAR program is provided in the Environment 
section of this report and at hess.com/sustainability/environment
Methane Emissions Intensity
SECTORONE Future 
2025 Target 
%ONE Future
2020 Target 
%Hess 2019 
Performance 
%
U.S. Onshore Production (ND) 0.28 0.38 0.35
U.S. Onshore Gathering and 
Boosting (ND)0.08 0.08 0.14
U.S. Onshore Processing (ND) 0.11 0.18 0.03
U.S. Onshore Upstream 0.47 0.64 0.52
U.S. Onshore and Offshore 
ProductionNA NA 0.27
Global Production NA NA 0.15
NA: Not applicable 52
Drilling Operations, Gulf of Mexico53
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTOur commitment to safeguarding the 
environment is a key aspect of the 
Hess Value of Social Responsibility and 
underpins the way we work every day. We 
strive for continuous improvement in our 
environmental impacts, which include water 
and energy use, air emissions, waste and 
spills. Across our company, we dedicate 
significant staff and resources to help 
ensure compliance with environmental laws 
and regulations, international standards 
and voluntary commitments. We have 
developed a range of key performance 
metrics to track our environmental 
performance and drive improvement over 
time at both the asset and enterprise levels. 
Some of these metrics are also factored 
into our annual incentive plan, to further 
advance our culture of environmental 
stewardship. 
We collaborate with peers, governments 
and nongovernmental organizations 
(NGOs) to help drive environmental 
performance improvements across 
our industry. We sponsor and actively 
participate in the Bakken Production 
Optimization Program, a research program 
led by the Energy and Environmental 
Research Center (EERC) and funded by 
the North Dakota Industrial Commission 
that aims to improve Bakken system oil 
recovery and reduce the environmental 
footprint of Bakken oil and gas operations. 
In 2019, we continued working with the 
EERC as part of the Intelligent Pipeline 
Integrity Program (iPIPE), a consortium of 
oil and gas producers leading and funding 
research on innovative technologies to 
detect leaks and other pipeline integrity 
issues (see page 59). The iPIPE consortium 
is one of several initiatives we are 
sponsoring that is designed to help meet North Dakota Governor Doug Burgum’s 
challenge to achieve zero pipeline spills.
Hess is also a member of the Gulf of 
Mexico Alliance’s Gulf Star program. 
The Gulf of Mexico Alliance (GoMA) is 
a nonprofit, public–private partnership 
that aims to enhance the ecological 
and economic health of the Gulf region 
by encouraging collaboration among 
government agencies, businesses, 
education providers and NGOs. GoMA is 
focused on improving habitat conservation, 
water quality, natural resource stewardship 
and land use strategies. In 2019, we 
supported several GoMA initiatives, 
including “citizen science” Water Watch 
programs in Louisiana (in partnership 
with the Lake Pontchartrain Basin 
Foundation) and Texas (in partnership with 
the Galveston Bay Foundation). Through 
the Water Watch program, high school 
students and other citizens are sampling 
Gulf of Mexico water for microplastics. 
In addition to providing funding, Hess 
Environment, Health and Safety staff 
have provided technical expertise. 
Also in 2019, we initiated a project with 
the Gulf Offshore Research Institute and 
the Barataria-Terrebonne National Estuary 
Program focused on cultivating native 
plants and grasses to restore the function 
and habitat of critical Gulf Coast wetlands. 
We also voluntarily sponsor and participate 
in the Environmentally Friendly Drilling 
program, a partnership among oil and gas 
companies, academia and environmental 
organizations coordinated by the Houston 
Advanced Research Center that aims 
to develop science-based solutions to 
environmental issues associated with oil 
and gas development.WATER MANAGEMENT
The communities and ecosystems in 
which we operate depend on water to 
thrive. Water is also important for our 
onshore operations, where we primarily 
use it for drilling and completions in our 
upstream operations and cooling in our 
midstream gas processing operations. ■  Groundwater
■  Municipal Water
■  Surface Water8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
2019 2018 20175.0
3.87.7FRESHWATER USE 
Million Cubic Meters
012345678
2019 2018 2017Freshwater Use
Million Cubic Meters
■  North Dakota Drilling and Completions 4,441
■  Tioga Gas Plant 368
■  All Other Operations 23342%
5%
88%7%2019 Freshwater Use by  
Facility/Business Function
Thousand Cubic MetersENVIRONMENT54ENVIRONMENT
Lifecycle Approach to Well Integrity
Conditions of Satisfactio n
Drill Pipe Saf ety v alve (IBOP) Pressure tested to 5,000 psi Tested upon ins tallation
Drilling BOP & C/K v alves Pressure tested to 250 /5,000 psi Tested upon ins tallation
Drill Pipe Floa t valves Inﬂow Tested While RIH
RCD & RCD spool Pressure tested to 250 /70% of WP Tested upon ins tallation
7" Cas ting Pressure tested to 1,500 psi Tested prior t o drill out
7" Cas ting P ackoff Pressure tested to 5,000 psi Tested prior t o drill out
Wellhead Pressure tested to 5,000 psi
WELL BARRIER ELEMENT S ACCEPT ANCE CRITERIA COMMENT S
Primary W ell Barrier
RCD & RCD spool Pressure tested to 250 /70% of WP Tested upon ins tallation
Wellbor e Fluid Maintained Fluid S ystem
Secondary W ell Barrier
Annular Pressure tested to 250 /2,500 Tested upon ins tallation
VBR's Pressure tested to 250 /2,500 Tested upon ins tallationWELL BARRIER DIAGRAM
Drill Pipe Safety Valve
RCD 
Spool
C/K 
ValveC/K 
Valve
Drill Pipe FloatDrilling
BOP
Wellhead
16-inch
Casing
9 5/8-inch
Casing
7-inch
CasingRCD RCD
APR
VBR VBRAPRRCD 
Spool
C/K 
ValveCOMPONENT CONDITIONS OF SATISFACTION
Drill pipe safety valve  
(inside blowout preventer)Pressure tested to 5,000 psi upon installation
Drilling blowout preventer (BOP)  
and choke and kill (C/K) valvesPressure tested to 250 and 5,000 psi upon installation
Drill pipe float valves Inflow tested while drill pipe is being run in-hole
7-inch casingPressure tested to 1,500 psi prior to drilling out of the 
cement barrier
Wellhead Pressure tested to 5,000 psi upon installation
WELL BARRIER ELEMENT ACCEPTANCE CRITERIA
Primary Well Barrier
Rotary control device (RCD)  
and RCD spoolPressure tested to 250 psi and 70% of working pressure 
upon installation
Wellbore fluidContinuously monitored fluid system as identified by the 
drilling fluid program
Secondary Well Barrier
Annular preventer (APR) Pressure tested to 250 and 2,500 psi upon installation
Variable bore ram (VBR) Pressure tested to 250 and 2,500 psi upon installationWELL BARRIER DIAGRAM, BAKKEN DRILLING EXAMPLEMaintaining the integrity of our wells – that is, preventing the 
uncontrolled or unintended release of oil, natural gas or produced 
fluids to the surface or belowground to aquifers or between 
geologic layers within the Earth – is fundamental to protecting 
the environment, the health and safety of our workforce and 
the communities in which we operate, and to safeguarding 
our product.
For all Hess wells, both offshore and onshore, we take a lifecycle 
approach to integrity. In the initial design phase, we identify the 
appropriate barrier systems for maintaining integrity throughout 
the well lifecycle. We establish these barriers during construction 
and maintain and monitor them through production and 
maintenance, and then we add new barriers during abandonment.
Our global standards for well integrity outline the criteria for 
installation, verification, maintenance and operating limits for barriers to be used through the lifecycle of the well, and they 
require completion of a detailed well barrier diagram before 
undertaking activities in the field. An example well barrier 
diagram is shown below. We use a combination of barriers 
– such as casing, wellheads, seal assemblies, blowout preventers, 
cement, packers and bridge plugs – that work together to prevent 
uncontrolled flow. For example, we use cement in the annular 
space between the production tubing and the underground 
formation as a key structural component to protect aquifers. 
We require a minimum depth of annular cement above and
below potential flow zones that meets or exceeds applicable 
regulations. We also require maintaining multiple and redundant 
barriers throughout the well lifecycle, and our minimum 
requirements for the configuration of blowout preventers 
on drilling rigs meet or exceed applicable regulations. 
WELL DEVELOPMENT LIFECYCLE
MAINTENANCE
(Repair, Intervention 
and Workover)ABANDONMENT OPERATIONCONSTRUCTION
(Drilling &
 Completions)DESIGN SCOPE55
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTWater management has been identified 
as a material issue for Hess and is a 
key element of our environment, health, 
safety and social responsibility (EHS 
& SR) strategy. In 2019, we continued 
to develop our risk-based, lifecycle 
approach to managing water, completing 
a stressed water resource analysis in the 
Bakken region and sponsoring two pilot 
studies focused on tracking and treating 
produced water. 
    See the Shale Energy section online for more 
detail on our approach to water management 
in our shale operations: hess.com/
sustainability/environment/shale-energy
Our total freshwater use for exploration 
and production in 2019 increased by 
44% over 2018. The largest driver of this 
increase was our North Dakota drilling 
and completion operations, which saw 
a 54% increase in water use compared 
with the prior year. This increase was 
due in part to a change in our primary 
completion strategy; the new strategy 
improves production but requires more 
sand proppant, and therefore, more water 
to move that proppant. Water use also 
increased due to an increase in drilling 
activity: We drilled 39 more wells and 
hydraulically fractured 31 more wells in 
2019 than in 2018. In 2020, we plan to 
continue evaluating completion strategies 
to maximize product recovery. 
As our operational profile and practices 
continue to evolve, we are assessing 
the best ways to reduce water use 
impacts across our operations. In North 
Dakota, for example, our freshwater 
reduction strategy primarily involves 
reusing produced water – the nonpotable 
water that is released from underground 
formations along with produced oil and 
natural gas – for production maintenance. 
During 2019, we increased our reuse 
of produced water for production 
maintenance by 57%. The total amount We validate well components and barriers as part of the construction process to verify they 
are working as designed. For example, we pressure-test barriers and well components during 
construction, after first running computer models to confirm we will not overpressure the 
component during testing. We run digital well logs to validate correct cement placement 
between the production tubing and the formation before completing our wells. And, in 
deepwater offshore wells, we verify cement installation with remotely operated vehicles. 
We monitor each well’s integrity from initial drilling through plugging and abandonment. 
Offshore, barriers critical to well integrity are digitally monitored on a continuous basis. 
Onshore, annular pressures are routinely monitored as an indicator of well integrity issues; 
however, we are in the process of transitioning to a remote, digital, continuous monitoring 
system.
In 2019, we completed a multiyear process of updating and enhancing our well integrity 
management system, which defines the organizational structure responsible for managing 
well integrity and the standards, procedures and risk management protocols that support 
well integrity. The enhanced system is expected to help us better manage integrity risks 
throughout the well lifecycle and help to ensure these risks are reassessed if material changes 
to a well’s design or changes to steps in the planned development process are identified or 
anticipated. We are also improving documentation, data collection and reporting on key 
performance indicators to measure compliance with these procedures and to enhance the 
chain of communication as responsibility for the well passes from one Hess team to another.
The enhanced management system will help to ensure that each stage of the well lifecycle 
and associated field activity is supported by technical standards and procedures that specify 
minimum requirements for designing, constructing and operating Hess wells, along with the 
elements critical to well integrity, including the barriers that prevent or stop the uncontrolled 
flow of well fluids. Moving to this structured and holistic approach to well integrity is in line 
with our commitment to operating safely and delivering value in our diverse global portfolio.  
    See the Shale Energy section online for specifics on our approach to well integrity in our shale  
operations, at hess.com/sustainability/environment/shale-energyDeepwater Assets
Deepwater assets, which include wells at a depth of more than 1,000 feet underwater, 
can, in certain circumstances, present unique challenges compared to land-based wells. 
In particular, because offshore wells tend to operate much deeper and under greater 
pressure, they present specific risks related to the containment of accidental discharges. 
Hess currently operates offshore production facilities in the Gulf of Mexico at the 
Baldpate, Tubular Bells and Stampede Fields. These assets are subject to the U.S. federal 
government’s Safety and Environmental Management System regulations, which provide 
a systematic approach for identifying, managing and mitigating hazards.56evaluation, selection and risk assessment.
These ESIAs include biodiversity baseline 
studies as well as screenings of identified 
species using the International Union 
for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red 
List and other threatened, endangered 
and protected species lists. We use 
the results of ESIAs to create mitigation 
strategies, where appropriate. Even where 
the conditions or circumstances do not 
call for a full ESIA, we routinely conduct 
biodiversity risk screenings and impact 
assessments and undertake appropriate 
mitigation activities. In addition, we conduct 
assessments when the classification of 
species and habitats changes in areas 
where we operate.
As part of our goal to improve biodiversity 
management at Hess’ global assets, 
we have developed threatened and 
endangered species field guides for 
personnel to use during field activities. 
In addition, we have a standard work 
instruction for all projects to help ensure 
we take appropriate steps to protect 
natural resources across our operations. 
We monitor the addition of new species 
to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s 
national endangered and threatened 
species lists. In addition, we identify 
locations where we may need to conduct 
new biological risk assessments and, 
where applicable, develop mitigation 
plans as a result of these listings. Also, 
where appropriate, we adjust drilling 
site locations to accommodate habitat 
features and priorities for certain species. 
During the 2019 construction season, we 
conducted 106 projects in the Bakken 
region that required environmental 
evaluation. Of the 106 projects, 57 
required field studies, and of those 57, 
49 required mitigations or adjustments 
to protect species habitat, wetlands or 
cultural sites, including to protect the 
threatened Dakota skipper moth.Hess utilizes third-party software 
programs, such as the Integrated 
Biodiversity Assessment Tool, to identify 
protected areas and key biodiversity 
areas as well as specific species listings. 
We maintain a list of IUCN Red List 
species with habitats that overlap with 
our operations. (See table below, which 
provides a snapshot of relevant species 
at the time of publication of this report.) 
The IUCN updates the Red List species 
classifications regularly based on new 
information and improved data from 
ongoing third-party studies, and we 
update our species list accordingly.
We also identify IUCN protected areas 
(categories I-III) adjacent to our operations. 
In 2019, there were four such areas, all in 
North Dakota (Lostwood Wilderness Area, 
Fort Union Trading Post National Historic 
Site, Two Top and Bit Top Mesas and 
Theodore Roosevelt National Park).
We regularly work with our industry 
peers on biodiversity-related issues. For 
example, we are an active member of 
the Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services 
Working Group of IPIECA. We also 
participate in the Endangered Species 
Working Group of the American Petroleum 
Institute (API), with the goal of proactively 
balancing oil and gas development with 
environmental decision making. We also 
participate in the Cross-Sector Biodiversity 
Initiative, a partnership of IPIECA, the 
International Council on Mining and Metals 
and the Equator Principles Association. 
This initiative brings the mining, oil and gas ENVIRONMENT
 IUCN Red List Species 
with habitats overlapping Hess operations
CATEGORY SPECIES (COUNT)
Critically Endangered 23
Endangered 49
Vulnerable 175
Near Threatened 194of water we need for our operations and 
our ability to reuse produced water varies 
based on the geology of the formation, 
production levels and changes in hydraulic 
fracturing technologies, among other 
factors. We remain committed, throughout 
our operations, to evaluating ways to 
reduce our water footprint.
Hess participates in industry forums 
focused on water management, to 
advance our own performance and 
contribute to industrywide knowledge 
sharing and progress. For example, we 
are active participants in the IPIECA 
Water Working Group, which aims to 
help companies improve their water use 
performance and reduce their water 
footprint by providing sound analysis, 
assessment tools, good practices, 
credible data sources and appropriate 
indicators. In 2019, this group developed 
guidelines on how to use water risk tools 
at the asset level. We are also members of 
the Energy Water Initiative, a collaborative 
effort among 21 oil and natural gas 
companies to study, describe and improve 
lifecycle water use and management in 
upstream unconventional oil and natural 
gas exploration and production. In 2020, 
we will also continue our partnership 
with the Environmentally Friendly 
Drilling program to review beneficial 
uses of produced water in shale energy 
operations.
BIODIVERSITY
We are committed to conserving 
biodiversity and habitats in the places 
where we operate. We consider the 
protection of biodiversity in our decision 
making and management from the earliest 
stages of exploration and development 
through production and closure at every 
Hess location around the globe.
We conduct formal environmental and 
social impact assessments (ESIAs) on 
major capital projects as part of site57
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTHydrocarbon Spills
■  Volume of Spills
●  Number of Spills050100150200250
0102030405060 245
123152
2017 2018 20190100150200250
5029 2952HYDROCARBON SPILLS Volume of Spills (Barrels)
Number of Spills
0102030405060Volume of Spills (Barrels)
Number of SpillsOil in Produced Water Discharges to Sea
13
101670
17
2017 2018 20196
020406080100120140
10203040506070800406080100120140
20
0305070
10204060Oil Mass in Produced Water (Tonnes)
Oil Concentration in Produced Water (PPMV )Oil Mass in Produced Water (Tonnes)
Oil Concentration in Produced Water ( PPMV )
●  Oil Mass in Produced Water (Tonnes)
●  Oil Concentration in Produced Water  (PPMV)
Nonhydrocarbon Spills
■  Volume of Spills
●  Number of Spills200400600800
0700
500
300
10045
40
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0 0100200300400500600700800
051015202530354045776
2019 2018 2017581
22
2030
113Volume of Spills (Barrels)
Number of Spills
■
■  Volume of Spills
  Number of Spills Volume of Spills (Barrels)
Number of Spillsand financial sectors together to develop 
and share good practices for safeguarding 
biodiversity and ecosystems.
WASTE
We generate a variety of waste streams, 
including waste specific to drilling and 
production activities. For each Hess asset, 
we manage waste through specific waste 
management plans designed to comply 
with all applicable regulatory and Hess 
requirements for that location, as well as to 
protect human health and the environment. 
These plans, which are developed to 
align with the Hess Waste Management 
Standard, require the application of our 
waste minimization principles of “Remove, 
Reduce, Reuse, Recycle, Recover, Treat and 
Dispose” – with disposal being the least-
preferred option.
In 2019, we generated approximately 
108,000 tonnes of solid waste, 
approximately 98% of which was classified 
as nonhazardous according to applicable 
regulations. Our overall waste generation 
volume was higher in 2019 compared with 
2018 due to a 57% increase in soil disposal 
stemming from an increase in asset 
retirement obligations.
We also disposed of approximately 
130,000 tonnes of drill cuttings from 
our North Dakota asset at licensed 
disposal sites in 2019. These drill cuttings, 
as well as the discharges from our offshore 
facilities (discussed in the next section), are 
not included in our overall waste totals per 
IPIECA reporting guidance.
We have continued our efforts to reduce 
landfilled piping waste by decontaminating 
(i.e., removing technologically enhanced 
naturally occurring radioactive material or 
TENORM) and recycling it. In 2019, we 
recycled 370 tonnes of nonhazardous piping 
waste in North Dakota due to these efforts. 
    See the Shale Energy section online for 
more information on naturally occurring 
radioactive materials (NORM) and TENORM: 
hess.com/sustainability/environment/shale-
energyDISCHARGES FROM OFFSHORE 
FACILITIES
Discharges from our offshore facilities 
include drilling mud, drill cuttings and 
produced water. These waste streams 
are either reinjected for disposal or reservoir 
management, discharged directly to 
the ocean (when allowed by applicable 
regulations) or transported to shore for 
treatment and disposal or recycling.
In 2019, our offshore facilities discharged 
to sea approximately 10,000 tonnes of 
nonaqueous drilling mud and cuttings, 
which included 3,500 tonnes of 
nonaqueous base fluid.
Offshore produced water discharges 
to sea totaled an estimated 2 million 
cubic meters in 2019. Produced water 
discharges had an average oil content 
of 6 parts per million volume (PPMV), 
totaling 16 tonnes of oil discharged. This 
data reflects a year-on-year decrease in 
PPMV but a slight increase in tonnes of 
oil discharged, due to an increase in the 
volume of discharged water.
At our South Arne asset, we have 
significantly reduced the amount of 
produced water discharged to sea by 
instead reinjecting it into our wells to 
stimulate production. By reinjecting the 
produced water, we are able to offset 
our use of seawater and reduce the 
environmental footprint of our North 
Sea operations. We steadily increased 
reinjection volumes of produced water 
from an estimated 76% in 2014 to 88% 
in 2019. While reinjection is somewhat 
driven by regulations, we have gone 
beyond what is required, substantially 
reducing our produced water discharges 
over time.
SPILL PREVENTION
Hess maintains spill preparedness and 
response plans and conducts emergency 
response exercises at each of our assets. 
To support a swift and effective response to 
any loss of primary containment (LOPC) 58incident, we maintain strong relationships 
with mutual aid and emergency response 
organizations at the local, regional and 
global levels. Hess’ international oil spill 
response needs are supported by our 
partnership with Oil Spill Response Limited 
(OSRL), an industry-funded cooperative. 
International medical and security 
incident responses are covered by our 
agreements with International SOS and 
Global Guardian. Our domestic needs are 
supported by the Marine Spill Response 
Corporation, Clean Gulf Associates, 
the Sakakawea Area Spill Response 
Cooperative, Tri-State Bird Rescue and 
Research, and the Wildlife Center of Texas. 
Hess representatives serve on the board 
of directors of OSRL and on the executive 
committee of Clean Gulf Associates, a 
nonprofit oil spill cooperative that supports 
the Gulf of Mexico.
Our international subsea well control 
preparedness and response capabilities are 
supported by the Subsea Well Intervention 
Service and Wild Well Control. In the Gulf 
of Mexico, we are members and serve on 
the executive committee of the Marine Well 
Containment Company. These organizations 
provide well capping, containment and 
dispersant capabilities as well as equipment 
and personnel mutual aid.
We are also active members of the Oil 
Spill Response Joint Industry Project 
organized by IPIECA and the International 
Association of Oil and Gas Producers, 
and we contribute to the IPIECA Oil 
Spill Working Group in support of our 
international assets. We are a member of 
the API’s Oil Spill Emergency Preparedness 
and Response Subcommittee. We also 
participate in Area Planning Committee 
meetings for Regions 6 and 8 of the U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency. 
We track LOPC events through our incident 
reporting system by size and material and 
report spills following applicable industry and regulatory guidance. We also use 
leading and lagging indicators to monitor 
LOPC performance, including continuing 
to tie LOPC performance to our annual 
incentive plan.
In 2019, the number of hydrocarbon spills 
held flat compared to 2018, while the 
volume increased slightly. The number 
of nonhydrocarbon spills increased by 
41% and the volume increased by 85% 
compared with 2018. With regard to the 
increase in volume of nonhydrocarbon spills, 
83% was due to two produced water spills.  
In 2019, we continued to implement a range 
of programs focused on spill prevention. To 
address spills that result from corrosion and 
integrity issues, for example, we continue 
to enhance our inspection and surveillance 
programs, upgrade external corrosion 
protection and use of corrosion inhibitors, 
and replace or redesign pipes. We have 
also continued to enhance spill prevention 
training and spill-related worksite controls, 
including expanding the sharing of root 
cause analysis findings and use of fluid 
transfer checklists. In addition, we continue 
to enhance the range of key performance 
indicators we use to track performance 
internally and increase internal transparency 
and reporting.
AIR EMISSIONS
The normal operation of fuel combustion 
and processing equipment as well as 
flaring activities results in air emissions of 
nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur dioxide (SO2) 
and volatile organic compounds (VOCs). 
Fugitive emission sources, including those 
related to product loading and storage, 
also can contribute to VOC emissions. 
We observed a decrease in absolute 
and normalized NOX emissions in 2019, 
primarily due to less fuel gas consumed 
at compressor stations. The newer 
compressor stations that have come 
online in recent years utilize electric 
drivers, replacing gas-fired engines. Absolute SO2 emissions in 2019 were 
essentially flat compared with 2018. Due 
to increased production, SO2 intensity 
decreased from 2018 to 2019.
Both absolute and normalized VOC 
emissions increased slightly from 2018 
to 2019, although the emissions trend 
since 2017 has been essentially flat. 
Absolute VOC emissions increased 
by 3,000 metric tons from 2018 to 2019; 
therefore, even with higher production 
in 2019, normalized VOC emissions 
increased. This is primarily attributable 
to an increase in flaring volumes at our 
Bakken well pads.
REGULATORY COMPLIANCE AND 
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
Strengthening our regulatory assurance 
program is one of the six components of 
our EHS & SR strategy. Internal assurance 
also helps us to ensure the effectiveness 
of our management systems. As part of 
our long term compliance strategy, our 
regulatory team continued the use of 
a compliance tracking tool at our U.S.   
assets in 2019. ENVIRONMENT
■  NO X 
■  VOC
■  SO 2Air Emissions 
2017020406080100
2018 2017 201624
1412102121
6986 8790
2018 20190600012000180002400030000
2019 2018 2017020406080100120
0600012000180002400030000Emissions (Tonnes)
●  NO X Intensity 
●  VOC Intensity
●  SO 2 Intensity
Emissions Intensity (Tonnes per Million BOE)59
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Intelligent Pipeline Integrity
Hess continues our active involvement in the Intelligent Pipeline Integrity Program 
(iPIPE), a collaboration of oil and gas operators, the Energy and Environmental 
Research Center – a nonprofit division of the University of North Dakota – and the 
North Dakota Industrial Commission (NDIC). Program participants are investing a 
total of $9 million (a $2.4 million grant from the NDIC plus matching funds from 
participating operators) over a period of four years to research and demonstrate 
emerging technologies that can enhance pipeline integrity efforts and then 
encourage industrywide adoption of worthy technologies.
Each year, iPIPE members review a range of technologies and choose a few for 
additional investment and testing. In 2019, iPIPE members chose to support two 
technologies. The first is a pipeline coating developed by Direct-C that can act as a 
sensor and detect leaks. iPIPE will help to fund testing to assess the response of the 
Direct-C technology under various environmental conditions. 
The second technology involves low orbiting satellites collecting data that could be 
used to identify pipeline leaks or other performance issues. This system includes 
proprietary algorithms and autonomous software to synthesize the massive amounts 
of data collected from thousands of miles of pipeline into simple visualizations and 
actionable alerts. iPIPE member operators first funded this technology in 2018 and 
are continuing to support its testing and refinement. Production Operations, North DakotaAs mentioned in the Climate Change and 
Energy section, we continued our leak 
detection and repair (LDAR) program 
in 2019 across all of our U.S. onshore 
operations, as a way to achieve emission 
reductions as part of our ONE Future 
and API Environmental Partnership 
commitments and to comply with a
prior Consent Decree in North Dakota. 
In our North Dakota production operations, 
the LDAR program helps to decrease 
the turnaround time for repairs identified 
through LDAR inspections, and our 
formalized process for assigning work 
material flows to field personnel helps to 
increase accountability and the efficiency 
of any needed repairs.
    For a detailed description of our LDAR 
program,  visit hess.com/sustainability/
environment
We are also continuing a multiyear 
effort through the API’s Pipeline Safety 
Management System group to implement 
API Recommended Practice 1173, which 
is related to pipeline safety management 
systems. A key aspect of our commitment 
to this initiative is the evaluation and 
enhancement of our integrity management 
systems pertaining to pipelines.
Environmental Expenditures
Hess received 43 alleged violations for 
various administrative activities regarding 
timing on submittals, well status changes 
and procedural reporting activities. Of 
the 43 alleged violations, eight resulted 
in penalties totaling $7,750 during 2019. 
The majority of our expenditures on 
environmental fines and penalties in 2019 
($4,750) were the result of small offshore 
spills. Other expenditures were related to 
one alleged commingling of recycled oil 
from U.S. Bureau of Land Management 
field inspections. 60UNITS 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Business Performance
Sales and other operating revenue $ Million 6,495 6,323 5,466 4,762 6,636
Net income (loss) attributable to Hess Corporation $ Million (408) (282) (4,074) (6,132) (3,056)
Total assets $ Million 21,782 21,433 23,112 28,621 34,157
Total debt $ Million 7,397 6,672 6,977 6,806 6,592
Stockholders’ equity $ Million 9,706 10,888 12,354 15,591 20,401
Debt to capitalization ratio % 43.2 38.0 36.1 30.4 24.4
Exploration and Production
Total net equity hydrocarbon production* Thousand BOE/D 311 277 306 322 375
Total operated hydrocarbon production** Thousand BOE/D 394 323 340 361 433
Proved reserves (total) Million BOE 1,197 1,192 1,154 1,109 1,086
       Liquids (crude oil (light and medium oils),  
condensate & natural gas liquids) % 78 75 72 74 76
      Gas % 22 25 28 26 24
Reserve life Years 10 12 10 9 8
Replaced production % 104 170 351 119 NM
Selected Economic Metrics
Capital and exploratory expenditures $ Million 3,159 2,340 2,168 2,154 4,338
Income tax expense/(benefit) $ Million 461 335 (1,837) 2,222 (1,299)
Royalties and other payments to governments $ Million 580 468 379 330 457
Cash dividends paid to shareholders $ Million 316 345 363 350 287
Employee wages and benefits (U.S.) $ Million 594 598 603 707 791
Interest expense before income taxes $ Million 380 399 325 338 341
Operating costs $/BOE 12 13 14 16 15
Supplier spend (approximate) $ Billion 4 4 5 6 7
Total social investment $ Million 7 7 14 20 21
Nitrogen oxides (NOX) taxes $ Million 0.2 0.2 0.8 0.8 5.5
Our People
Number of permanent employees # 1,775 1,708 2,075 2,304 2,770
U.S. % 86 86 85 83 79
International % 14 14 15 17 21
Part-time employees % <1 <1 <1 <1 <1
Full-time employees % 100 100 100 100 100
Employee turnover – voluntary % 6 6 5 5 5
Employee layoffs % 0.2 20 13 18 8
Female employees (U.S. and international) % 26 26 28 27 27
Minority employees (U.S.) % 22 22 23 25 24
Employees represented by collective bargaining agreements % 2 2 2 2 3
Safety Performance
Fatalities – workforce (employees + contractors) # 0 0 0 0 0
Hours worked – workforce Million hours 16.0 14.9 20.8 21.7 28.6
Employee total recordable incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.05 0.13 0.09 0.10 0.24
Contractor total recordable incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.57 0.41 0.31 0.50 0.39
Workforce total recordable incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.43 0.32 0.24 0.39 0.36
Employee lost time incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.00 0.00 0.03 0.06 0.03
Contractor lost time incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.24 0.12 0.10 0.15 0.10
Workforce lost time incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.18 0.08 0.08 0.13 0.08
Employee occupational illness rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.05 0.13 0.06 0.00 0.09
Contractor occupational illness rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.12 0.02 0.08 0.14 0.25
Workforce occupational illness rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.10 0.05 0.08 0.10 0.21
Products with Safety Data Sheets % 100 100 100 100 100
NM: Not meaningful  
*Total net hydrocarbons produced are equity share values from Hess’ SEC Form 10-K.  
**Total operated hydrocarbon production is used for intensity metrics (i.e., flaring, GHG emissions, energy and other air emissions).PERFORMANCE DATA
This table contains a subset of our publicly reported performance data. An expanded version of this table, which includes cross references 
to supporting narratives in this sustainability report, can be found at hess.com/sustainability/performance-data/key-sustainability-metrics. 
Our annual report, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Form 10-K filing and proxy statement, which can be found at 
hess.com/investors, provide more detail on our financial and governance information.61
2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTUNITS 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbons MMSCF 25,828 18,797 22,009 26,991 36,121
Flaring intensity* SCF/BOE 180 163 164 174 192
Operated direct emissions (Scope 1) Million tonnes CO 2e 3.9 3.6 3.7 4.1 5.1
    CO 2 Million tonnes CO 2e 3.6 3.3 3.4 3.7 4.7
    CH 4 Thousand tonnes CO 2e 319.4 283.0 313.4 296.9 403.7
    N 2O Thousand tonnes CO 2e 2.5 2.7 2.7 2.3 2.7
Operated direct emissions (Scope 1) by source 
Flaring/venting % 61 52 52 52 63
Fuel combustion % 34 43 42 43 33
Other % 6 5 6 5 4
Operated indirect emissions (Scope 2) Million tonnes CO 2e 0.4 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6
    CO 2 Million tonnes CO 2e 0.4 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.5
    CH 4 Thousand tonnes CO 2e 1.1 0.8 0.9 0.2 0.2
    N 2O Thousand tonnes CO 2e 1.9 1.6 1.9 2.4 2.4
Operated GHG emissions intensity* Tonnes CO2e/thousand BOE 30 34 34 33 33
Equity (Scopes 1 and 2) GHG emissions Million tonnes CO 2e 4.3 3.9 4.0 4.2 5.5
Equity Scope 3 emissions Million tonnes CO 2e 49.2 43.4 48.8 51.6 60.2
Energy Use
Production energy intensity* Gigajoules/BOE 0.20 0.26 0.27 0.29 0.23
Operated direct energy use Thousand gigajoules 21,650 25,064 25,831 29,973 27,506
Operated indirect energy use (gross) Thousand gigajoules 6,532 5,589 7,290 8,273 8,642
Net purchased electricity by primary energy source** Thousand MWh 708 606 790 896 936
Green-e certified renewable energy certificates (wind power) Thousand MWh 531 70 90 100 135
Freshwater Use (Consumption)
Groundwater Million cubic meters 1.0 1.5 5.6 5.7 6.0
Municipal water Million cubic meters 0.9 0.8 1.2 0.6 1.2
Surface water Million cubic meters 3.2 1.6 0.8 1.2 1.7
Total freshwater Million cubic meters 5.0 3.8 7.7 7.6 8.9
Reused/recycled (estimated)◊% 3.6 3.3 7.7 14.5 12.0
Solid Waste
Nonhazardous Thousand tonnes 107.0 45.4 154.4 92.5 252.5
Hazardous Thousand tonnes 0.8 1.7 2.6 0.9 0.4
Liquid Waste†
Nonhazardous waste Thousand cubic meters 542.4 141.01 48.28 73.05 7,275
Hazardous waste Thousand cubic meters 0.00 0.00 0.00 10.52 18.44
Spills
Hydrocarbon spills – number # 29 29 52 46 47
Hydrocarbon spills – volume Barrels 152 123 245 308 1,025
Nonhydrocarbon spills – number # 30 20 22 42 91
Nonhydrocarbon spills – volume Barrels 776 113 581 1,104 10,033
Air Emissions (Excludes GHGs)*
Sulfur dioxide (SO 2) Tonnes 1,711 1,655 2,987 3,804 3,727
SO 2 intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 12 14 24 29 24
NO x Tonnes 9,909 14,306 12,665 10,261 11,515
NO x intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 69 121 102 77 73
Volatile organic compounds (VOC) Tonnes 13,000 10,303 10,724 9,441 13,133
VOC intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 90 87 86 71 83
Exploration and Production Discharges
Oil in produced water to sea Tonnes 16 13 70 87 81
Oil in produced water to sea PPMV 6 10 17 18 15
Produced water to sea Million cubic meters 2 1 6 6 6
Other Environmental Indicators
Environmental fines and penalties – operated $ Thousand 7 75 842 24 25
Environmental expenditures – remediation $ Million 20 15 15 10 13
Environmental reserve $ Million 70 80 80 80 80
*The annual gross operated hydrocarbon production (normalization factor) for 2019 was 143,933,216 BOE.      
**Third-party power generation. 
◊ Reused/recycled water in 2018 and 2019 represents the percentage of total Bakken produced water that was reused in those years. By reusing 142,000 cubic meters of 
produced water for well maintenance in 2018, and 222,983 cubic meters in 2019, we have been able to offset freshwater use in that same amount. 
†Liquid waste totals include wastewater treatment and deep well disposal.      62ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was engaged by Hess Corporation (Hess) to provide assurance on the 2019 Sustainability 
Report (the Report).  
Engagement Summary
Scope: Whether the Report is fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria.
Reporting Criteria: The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards 2016 (Core option).
Assurance Standard: ERM CVS’s assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised).
Assurance Level: Limited assurance.
Respective Responsibilities: •  Hess is responsible for preparing the Report and for its correct presentation, including disclosure of the reporting 
criteria and boundary.  
•  ERM CVS’s responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities 
performed and exercising our professional judgment. 
OUR CONCLUSION
Based on our activities, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the Report is not fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance 
with the GRI Standards 2016 (Core option).
OUR ASSURANCE ACTIVITIES
We planned and performed our work to obtain all the information and explanations that we believe were necessary to provide a basis for our 
assurance conclusion. During our assurance engagement, travel restrictions were imposed following the outbreak of COVID-19. As a result of these 
it was necessary to adjust the assurance activities that we had originally agreed with Hess. We replaced the planned “in-person” head office and 
site visit to Hess’ operations in North Dakota with virtual “visits” via tele- and video conference calls for this year’s assurance engagement. These 
changes do not affect our limited assurance conclusion above. However, it is possible that in-person visits may have identified errors and omissions 
that we did not discover through the alternative assurance program.
A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and assurance specialists performed the following activities:
•    A review of external media reporting relating to Hess to identify relevant sustainability issues in the reporting period.
•    Interviews with relevant staff to understand Hess’ sustainability strategy, policies and management systems.
• Interviews with relevant staff to understand and evaluate the data management systems and processes (including IT systems and internal      
review processes) used for collecting and reporting the information.
•    Virtual “visits” to Hess’ operations in North Dakota and the Stampede asset in the Gulf of Mexico, to verify the source data for the assets’ 
sustainability performance indicators for 2019 and to review sustainability management implementation at the asset level.
•    An analytical review of the 2019 data for the sustainability performance indicators from all assets and a check on the completeness and accuracy 
of the data consolidation at the Hess corporate level.
•       A virtual “visit” to Hess’ head office in Houston, Texas, to review the consolidation process and the results of the internal data validation process, 
and to conduct interviews with subject matter experts regarding the content of the Report.
•       A review of samples of documentary evidence, including internal and external documents, relating to the assertions made regarding 2019 
sustainability performance and activities in the Report.
•    A review of selected evidence related to the design, information collection, and production of the Report in accordance with GRI requirements.
•    A review of the presentation of information relevant to the scope of our work in the Report to ensure consistency with our findings.
THE LIMITATIONS OF OUR ENGAGEMENT
The reliability of the assured data is subject to inherent uncertainties, given the available methods for determining, calculating or estimating the 
underlying information. It is important to understand our assurance conclusions in this context. 
OUR OBSERVATIONS
We have provided Hess with a separate detailed management report including our observations.
Jennifer Iansen-Rogers 
Head of Corporate Assurance
29 June 2020
ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that ERM CVS conducts for clients is solely related to independent assurance activities and 
auditor training. Our processes are designed and implemented to ensure that the work we undertake with clients is free from bias and conflict of 
interest. ERM CVS and the staff who have undertaken this engagement work have provided no consultancy-related services to Hess in any respect.ERM Certification and Verification Services Inc.
www.ermcvs.com
Email: post@ermcvs.com
 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT
SUSTAINABILITY
•  CDP Climate Change leadership status for 
11th consecutive year
•  Dow Jones Sustainability Index North 
America for 10th consecutive year
•  Corporate Responsibility Magazine’s  
100 Best Corporate Citizens for 12th 
consecutive year
   – No. 1 oil and gas company
• Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index  
   – Only U.S. oil and gas company
•  STOXX Global ESG Leaders Index for 
seventh consecutive year•  MSCI USA ESG Leaders Index for 10th 
consecutive year
• FTSE4Good U.S. Index for seventh  
   consecutive year   
• Wall Street Journal’s Top 250 Best  
   Managed Companies 
• Newsweek magazine’s America’s Most  
   Responsible Companies 
WORKFORCE
•  Minority Engineer magazine’s Top 50 
Employers  
SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This report contains “forward-looking statements” within the 
meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, 
and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as 
amended. Words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” 
“forecast,” “guidance,” “could,” “may,” “should,” “would,” “believe,” 
“intend,” “project,” “plan,” “predict,” “will,” “target” and similar 
expressions identify forward-looking statements, which are not 
historical in nature. Our forward-looking statements may include, 
without limitation: our future financial and operational results; our 
business strategy; benchmark prices of crude oil, natural gas liquids 
and natural gas; our projected budget and capital and exploratory 
expenditures; expected timing and completion of our development 
projects; future economic and market conditions in the oil and gas 
industry; and information about sustainability goals and targets and 
planned social, safety and environmental policies, programs and 
initiatives. 
Forward-looking statements are based on our current 
understanding, assessments, estimates and projections of relevant 
factors and reasonable assumptions about the future. Forward-
looking statements are subject to certain known and unknown risks 
and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially 
from our historical experience and our current projections or 
expectations of future results expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. The following important factors could 
cause actual results to differ materially from those in our forward-
looking statements: fluctuations in market prices of crude oil, natural 
gas liquids and natural gas; reduced demand for our products, 
including as a result of COVID-19; changes in laws, regulations and 
governmental actions applicable to our business; the ability of our 
contractual counterparties to satisfy their obligations to us; 
unexpected changes in technical requirements; availability and costs 
of employees and other personnel, equipment, supplies and other 
required services; and other factors described in Item 1A—Risk 
Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and any additional risks 
described in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission. 
As and when made, we believe that our forward-looking statements 
are reasonable. However, given these risks and uncertainties, 
caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on any such 
forward-looking statements since such statements speak only as of 
the date when made and there can be no assurance that such 
forward-looking statements will occur and actual results may differ 
materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement we 
make. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to 
publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether 
because of new information, future events or otherwise. • STEM Workforce Diversity magazine’s Top   
   50 Employers
•   Hispanic Network magazine’s Best of the 
Best Employers
• Black EOE Journal’s Best of the Best  
   Employers
•  Careers and the disABLED magazine’s  
Top 50 Employers
• Woman Engineer magazine’s Top 50   
   Employers
• Equal Opportunity magazine’s Top 50  
   EmployersAWARDS AND RECOGNITIONDesign: incdesign.comSandy Alexander Inc., an ISO 14001:2004 certified 
printer with Forest Stewardship Council™ (FSC®) 
Chain of Custody, printed the Hess Sustainability 
Report with the use of renewable wind power 
resulting in nearly zero carbon emissions. This report 
was printed on FSC®-certified Mohawk Options paper, 
a process-chlorine-free 100% post-consumer waste 
(PCW) paper manufactured entirely with 100% 
certified wind energy and containing 100% 
post-consumer recycled fiber.Savings from the use of emission-free  
wind-generated electricity:
4,655 pounds of GHG emissions  
not generated
Displaces this amount of hydrocarbons:
2.32 barrels of natural oil unused
In other words, your savings from the use of  
wind-generated electricity are equivalent to:
2,385 miles not driven
26 trees plantedThe savings below are achieved when PCW  
recycled fiber is used in place of virgin fiber: 
64 trees preserved for the future
5 pounds of water pollutants not created
30,010 gallons of water saved
2,009 pounds of solid waste not created
5,333 pounds of net greenhouse gases 
(GHGs) prevented
29 million British thermal units of energy  
not consumed
63 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTLEARN MORE AT  
 WWW.HESS.COM/SUSTAINABILITY
www.hess.comSOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
A review of social responsibility as    
our way of doing business
www.hess.com/sustainability/social-
responsibility
CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY
Balancing the world’s growing energy 
needs with our cost-effective greenhouse 
gas emission reduction policy
www.hess.com/sustainability/climate-
change-energySAFETY AND HEALTH
Aiming to get everyone, everywhere, 
every day, home safe
www.hess.com/sustainability/  
safety-health
ENVIRONMENT
Responsible management of our 
environmental footprint
www.hess.com/sustainability/
environmentOUR PEOPLE
Creating a diverse and inclusive 
culture and high quality workforce 
that innovates, leads and learns
www.hess.com/careers/life-at-hess
GRI CONTENT INDEX
Performance against GRI Standards 
indicators
www.hess.com/sustainability/
sustainability-reports/GRI-Index