ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH, SAFETY 
AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
2005 REPORTOUR COMPANY / SCOPE OF REPORT
OUR COMPANY
Hess Corporation is a leading, global energy company
that explores for, produces, purchases, transports and sells crude oil and natural gas. These activities occur in the United States, the United Kingdom, Norway, Denmark,Russia, Equatorial Guinea, Egypt, Algeria, Gabon, Libya,Indonesia, Thailand, Azerbaijan, and Malaysia. 
The Company also manufactures, purchases, trades and
markets refined petroleum products, natural gas and electricity. Our customers are the motoring public on theEast Coast of the United States, wholesale distributors of oil and natural gas, industrial and commercial users, other petroleum companies, governmental agencies and public utilities. 
To help supply the energy needs of these customers, 
the Company owns 50 percent of the HOVENSA joint venture in the U.S. Virgin Islands, one of the world’s largestrefineries. Additionally, the Company owns and operates afluid catalytic cracking facility in Port Reading, New Jerseythat manufactures gasoline and heating oil. Our supplyoperation includes 22 storage terminals with a capacity of 22 million barrels.
The Company is a significant retail operator through 
its network of 1,354 Hess gasoline stations andHess Express convenience stores along the East Coast from Massachusetts to Florida. 
Hess Corporation is also a joint venture partner in other
energy related businesses, including a 50 percent interestin Hess LNG, which is pursuing investments in liquefiednatural gas (LNG) terminals and related supply, trading andmarketing opportunities; a 50 percent voting interest in a consolidated partnership that trades energy commodities
and derivatives, in which the Company takes trading positionsfor its own account; and a significant investment in NuveraFuel Cells, Inc., engaged in the development of fuel cellsfor automotive use and electric generation.
Additionally, Hess Microgen provides distributed electricity
generating equipment to industrial and commercial customersas an alternative to purchasing electricity from local utilities. 
SCOPE OF REPORT
This report covers the principal facilities and assets operated by Hess Corporation and its subsidiaries.Information and data pertaining to HOVENSA is available in our web-based report at www.hess.com. Data from newassets are included in this report but may be reported separately from company totals. Emission data and otherenvironmental metrics refer to gross figures from operatedfacilities. Company baselines used for assessing performanceagainst targets have been adjusted to reflect materialchanges from acquisitions or divestitures. For copies of the data referred to in this report in tabular format, pleasevisit our web-based report at www.hess.com.
This report does not include data on oil and gas fields 
or marketing sites in which the Company has an equityinterest but which are operated by other companies.
The format of this report follows the framework of the
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). However, gaps may existwhere GRI reporting requirements are not applicable or are not reported for Hess operations.
2005 Operating Statistics can be found on the inside back cover.
1 Management Letter
3 Management of Environment,
Health, Safety andSocial Responsibility5 Health, Safety and
Environmental Performance
9 Social Responsibility11 Alternative Energy
12 Verification StatementCONTENTSCover Photo: Platform safely in route from fabrication yard to Equatorial GuineaMANAGEMENT LETTER
1JOHN B. HESS
Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer
GERALD I. BRESNICK, PH.D.
Vice President,
Environment, Health and SafetyJ. BARCLAY COLLINS
Executive Vice President and 
General Counsel We made significant progress during 2005 in our exploration
and production operations across the globe to grow ourreserves and production to meet future energy demand. We are making substantial investments in new field developments, drilling activities and production operations.We also continue to expand our retail and energy marketingbusinesses as well as operate our refineries to supply our customers with petroleum products. With this high level of activity, we continue to operate in a safe and environmentally sound manner.
We achieved our best ever recorded safety performance 
in 2005. We are especially pleased to report that we experienced no work related fatalities during the year. Over the past five years we have reduced our injury rate by nearly 50 percent. Continuing and sustainingimprovement in safety performance is our No. 1 priority. 
We are also pleased to report that we have reduced our 
normalized emissions of greenhouse gases by nearly fourpercent since 2001, primarily through efficiency gains in Algeria and United States Exploration and Productionactivities. In 2005, we also successfully met our targets toreduce atmospheric emissions of sulphur oxides, nitrogenoxides and volatile organic hydrocarbons.
We remain committed to the communities where we live
and work. We are proud of our many initiatives to improvethe environment, health and education. In EquatorialGuinea the Company, in partnership with the government, has committed $20 million of a $40 million, multi-year
program to support education in the West African country.The program will focus on strengthening the country’s educational system for children ages 6 to 18 while improvingteacher training, learning initiatives and infrastructuredevelopment. In Azerbaijan, we began the second phase of our successful Emergency Medicine DevelopmentInitiative, which will rehabilitate five hospitals within thecommunities where we operate.
Natural disasters were particularly devastating in late 
2004 and 2005. We were saddened by the loss of life anddestruction of the communities caused by the tsunami inSoutheast Asia and the Katrina, Rita and Wilma hurricanesin the United States. We moved quickly to provide immediate emergency assistance to the victims of thesedisasters, donating approximately $5 million to relief agencies working in these areas. 
We trust that the information presented in this report 
and on our website, www.hess.com, demonstrate both our commitment to environmental, health and safety issues as well as our progress in helping to meet society’sneeds while growing energy supplies to meet world demand. Our success would not be possible without thesupport of our customers, contractors, suppliers and stockholders and we remain grateful for the commitmentand dedication of our employees.Hess Express Retail Facility in South FloridaMANAGEMENT OF ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH,
SAFETY AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
GOVERNANCE
Hess Corporation has implemented a values-based, socially
responsible strategy focused on improving environment,health and safety (EHS) performance and improving thequality of life in the communities where we operate. Thisstrategy is guided by the Company’s EHS policies and bymanagement systems and programs that work to protect ouremployees, customers and host communities. These policiescan be found at www.hess.com, our internet web site.
Our EHS management systems are based on recognized
international standards that promote consistency, adherenceto policies, and continued improvement in performance. In 2005, nearly a quarter of our total oil production andthroughput was from ISO 14001 certified operations.
Hess Corporation recognizes its responsibilities as a 
global energy producer, especially as we grow and expandour exploration and production activities worldwide. Our Business Practice Guide provides employees with guidance and expectations regarding business ethics, citizenship, contracting and labor practices, regulatory compliance, safety and stewardship of the environment.The Hess Leadership Team, comprised of the Company’s top management, establishes company-wide performance objectives and reviews results. Additionally, the Audit
Committee of the Hess Corporation Board of Directors routinely reviews our performance in these areas.
We have management systems, an audit program and 
strong governance policies in place to drive continuousimprovement. Technical support and functional guidance is provided to various business units through corporate and business unit staff. A chart showing the Environment,Health and Safety organization is available at www.hess.com.
We work with other companies in the energy industry as well
as external groups such as trade associations and professionalorganizations to advance our knowledge of worldwide EHS and Social Responsibility issues. Various internal taskforces also foster information sharing that helps businessmanagers to address company performance objectives.
We will continue to use this report to chart our progress.
Ultimately, the better we are at being safer, healthier, environmentally sound and socially responsible, the more value we will create for shareholders and other stakeholders that help us to be an industry leader. A summary of our objectives and performance is included on the following pages.
3HESS CORPORATION SUPPORTS SEVERAL INTERNATIONAL VOLUNTARY INITIATIVES. 
THESE INCLUDE:
• UNITED NATIONS UNIVERSAL DECLARATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS• UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT• VOLUNTARY PRINCIPLES ON SECURITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS• EXTRACTIVE INDUSTRIES TRANSPARENCY INITIATIVEHOVENSA Refinery, recipient of the 2005 
Chairman’s Award for Safety ExcellenceHEALTH, SAFETY AND 
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
HEALTH AND SAFETY
We have made significant improvements in our safety 
performance since 2000, reducing our annual injury rate by almost one-half. We achieved our best ever recordedsafety performance in 2005 (chart 1, chart 2) and had no work-related fatalities. The safety target for employeerecordable injuries was achieved. The year-end Lost Time/Restricted Duty rate fell slightly short of the target rate.Notably, our entire Exploration & Production Division hadzero employee lost time or restricted duty cases in 2005.
The annual Chairman’s Award for Safety Excellence 
recognizes one operation or group that demonstrates outstanding commitment to workforce safety through systematic processes, exceptional performance, and sustainability of improvement. 
The HOVENSA refinery in St. Croix was selected as 
the 2005 recipient of the Chairman’s Award for SafetyExcellence. The award recognizes HOVENSA’s significantimprovement in safety over the last several years, culminating in first quartile performance compared to industry peers. HOVENSA’s outstanding performance is the result of dedication to improvement and action by the entire organization.President’s Awards were also given to the West Texas
Exploration and Production operations and the SoutheastFlorida/South Carolina Retail operations for their exemplary safety performance.
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
Hess Corporation recognizes that to grow our business and to help meet the increasing global demand for energy,we must do so in a manner that protects the world’s land,water and air resources. Our priority is to put in place environmentally sound practices wherever we work.
Global Climate Change
Climate change is an issue that has a potential impact onfuture global economic growth and development and hasprompted much public debate. We share this concern.
The Company has undertaken a program to assess, monitor
and reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, including carbon dioxide and methane. The challenges associated withthis program are significant, not only from the standpoint of technical feasibility, but also from the perspective ofadequately measuring our entire GHG inventory. In 2005we made further progress in developing our standardizedreporting methodology.
50.00.51.01.52.02.53.0
01 02 03 04 05RECORDABLE INCIDENTS
(# cases per 100 employees)
0.00.51.01.52.0
01 02 03 04 05LOST TIME / RESTRICTED DUTY
(# cases per 100 employees)1. RECORDABLE WORKPLACE INJURY RATE 2. LOST WORK TIME & RESTRICTED DUTY INCIDENT RATEWe set a company-wide target of reducing our normalized
GHG emissions by 5 percent by 2005 compared to 2001 emissions. We came close and are encouraged thatour 2005 normalized emissions decreased by 4 percent in comparison to our 2001 baseline (chart 3). Our reportedtotal GHG emissions increased by around 20 percent, from 5.1 million tons in 2001 to 6.1 million tons in 2005.This increase is largely attributable to an increase in operated production and the inclusion of sources not previously quantified.
As we continue to expand our operations our total 
atmospheric emissions may increase. We will continue to look for opportunities to sustain or reduce our overall carbon footprint. For example, our North Dakota operationsare participating in the Plains CO
2Reduction Partnership,
assessing the technical and economic feasibility of capturing and storing CO
2emissions from stationary
sources in the northern Great Plains and adjacent areas.Air Emissions
We set a target of reducing our normalized nitrogen oxides(NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx) and volatile organic compounds(VOC) emissions by 5 percent by 2005 compared to our2001 baseline. We are pleased to report that our company-wide NOx emissions were reduced by 34 percent (chart 4),SOx emissions by 40 percent (chart 5) and VOC emissionsby 14 percent (chart 6). These reductions were met largelyby efficiency measures, fuel switching, vapor recovery andchanges to our asset base. 
Water Resources
Our operations have the potential to impact waterresources. We have established metrics to help us monitorand improve our performance and controls to minimizethese impacts.
6012345678
01 02 03 04 05GHG (CO 2 Eqv.)
(millions of U.S. tons) 10.511.0
10.011.512.0
GHG (CO 2 Eqv.)
(U.S. tons / 1000 bbls)
05101520
01 02 03 04 05NOx (thousands of U.S. tons)
40455055606570
NOx (lbs / 1000 bbls)
0123456
01 02 03 04 05SO 2 (thousands of U.S. tons)
10121416182022
SO 2 (lbs / 1000 bbls)3. GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 4. OXIDES OF NITROGEN EMISSIONS 5. SULFUR DIOXIDE EMISSIONS
n/nGHG (CO2Eqv.) (millions of U.S. tons)
>/>Normalized GHG* (CO2Eqv.) 
(U.S. tons / 1000 bbls)n/nNOx (thousands of U.S. tons)
>/>Normalized NOx* (lbs / 1000 bbls)
*Adjusted baselinen/nSO2(thousands of U.S. tons)
>/>Normalized SO2* (lbs / 1000 bbls)
*Adjusted baseline7Oil Spills and Releases
Our goal is to have no spills. Because oil spills and 
releases to the environment do occur accidentally, we trackour company-wide spills in order to monitor performance,identify root causes and plan mitigation measures.
In 2005, we had 270 spills which totaled 531 barrels
(bbls) of oil (chart 7). Both the number and volume of spills increased in comparison to 2004. Approximately28 percent of spills were discovered as a result of an ongoing equipment replacement program at retail facilities,which will prevent further spills and leaks in the future.Spills at onshore production locations in the United Statesaccounted for the greatest volume of oil spilled. All spillswere promptly addressed and the recovered material wasproperly handled and disposed of.
The volume of oil discharged in produced water at 
offshore facilities decreased from 1,985 bbls in 2004 to 1,796 bbls in 2005. As in previous years, the quantity of water discharged also decreased and consequently the oil in water concentration increased from 16 parts 
per million (ppm) in 2004 to 20 ppm in 2005 (chart 8). This is well below the generally accepted regulatory limits of 30-40ppm. 
In 2005, our overall volume of drilling mud and cuttings 
discharged decreased significantly, mainly due to a reduction in the number of wells drilled. However, theamount of oil discharged with cuttings increased from 101 tons in 2004 to 350 tons in 2005. 
RESOURCE USE
The overall quantity of waste generated increased from 90,708 tons in 2004 to 196,763 in 2005. New remediation projects in the Permian Basin resulted in 91,812 tons of this total. Of all waste generated in 2005, 39 percent was recycled. As in 2004, approximately 0.3 percent of waste generated in 2005 was categorized as hazardous.
01020304050
01 02 03 04 05VOC (thousands of U.S. tons)
150175200225
VOC (lbs / 1000 bbls)
0.00.40.81.21.62.02.42.8
01 02 03 04 05VOLUME OF OIL SPILLS 
(thousands of bbls)
150200250300
NUMBER OF OIL SPILLS
0.00.51.01.52.02.53.03.5
01 02 03 04 05OIL VOLUME IN PRODUCED WATER
(thousands of bbls)
10121416182022
OIL CONCENTRATION 
IN PRODUCED WATER (ppmV)6. VOLATILE ORGANIC
COMPOUND EMISSIONS7. NUMBER AND VOLUME 
OF OIL SPILLS8. OIL IN PRODUCED WATER 
DISCHARGES TO SEA
n/nVOC (thousands of U.S. tons)
>/>Normalized VOC* (lbs / 1000 bbls)
*Adjusted baselinen/nVolume of Oil Spills 
(thousands of bbls)
>/>Number of Oil Spillsn/nOil Volume in Produced Water (bbls)
>/>Oil Concentration in Produced 
Water (ppmV)Children at Hess supported school in northern ThailandSOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SUPPORTSOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
COMMUNITY INVESTMENT
We have a long tradition of investing in projects that
improve health, education and quality of life in communitieswhere we live and work. We support charitable and othernon-profit organizations, community projects, scholarshipsand employee volunteerism. 
We work closely with the local communities to help us
understand and evaluate specific needs. This collaborationensures the sustainability of our social responsibility program.
In 2005, we invested $7.7 million in cash and in-kind
donations worldwide, including disaster relief contributions. 
PLANNED SOCIAL INVESTMENTS
The majority of our planned social expenditures were in the United States, Equatorial Guinea and Azerbaijan.Some highlights from 2005 include the following: 
Equatorial Guinea Educational Development
The Company, in partnership with the government ofEquatorial Guinea, has committed $20 million of a $40 million, multi-year program to support education in the West African country. The program will focus on
strengthening the country’s educational system for children ages 6 to 18 while improving teacher training,learning initiatives and infrastructure development.
We worked with the Equatorial Ministry of Mines, Industry
and Energy; the Ministry of Education and the internationalnon-profit agency Academy for Education Development in2005 to support a feasibility study on national educationimprovement, which led to the funding commitments byHess and the government.
The program represents a model for public/private 
cooperation and is designed to transform education andprovide sustainable benefits for citizens of the country.
Azerbaijan: Phase II of Emergency Medicine 
Development Initiative
In Phase I of the Emergency Medicine DevelopmentInitiative we worked to help raise the quality of emergencymedical services at First Medical Emergency Hospital No.3in Azerbaijan. Based on the excellent results achieved,Phase II of the Emergency Medicine Development Initiative 
9DISASTER RELIEF
$4,872,042EDUCATION
$1,282,349
HEALTH
$477, 575
ENVIRONMENT
$66,800COMMUNITY
$996,030
ARTS/CULTURE
$32,875UNITED STATESINDONESIA
UNITED KINGDOM
ALGERIA        
     THAILAND              
AZERBAIJAN                     GABON
DENMARK
EQUATORIAL
GUINEAwas launched in September 2005. With the support 
of additional donors, the scope and geographic coverage of the project was expanded to include five hospitals, emergency medicine training centers and development of a new national policy on emergency medical services.
TSUNAMI RESPONSE
Following the massive destruction and loss of life caused by the tsunami that hit Southeast Asia in the final days of 2004, our field offices in Indonesia, Thailand andMalaysia responded with immediate aid to local relieforganizations. Within days of the disaster, Hess pledged $1 million to Save the Children for their relief efforts inIndonesia. This organization provided immediate care forchildren’s health and nutrition through daily care at activitycenters and community kitchens, thereby averting furthercalamity. Save the Children was also able to reunite thousands of families separated by the disaster. Save theChildren has provided direct assistance to more than276,000 survivors in Indonesia alone – the largest reliefeffort in the organization’s history.
In Thailand, we also pledged $1 million to the
Rachaprachanukroach Foundation, under the royal patronage of the King, for its invaluable support of the children affected by the tragedy.Our employees were also highly supportive of the relief
efforts. An employee matching gift program with fourhumanitarian relief organizations provided additional reliefassistance. Since the tsunami we have worked with localgovernments, non-governmental organizations and localcommunities to assist in rebuilding efforts.
HURRICANE RESPONSE
Hurricanes Katrina and Rita struck the Gulf Coast of theUnited States in August and September 2005, forcing millions of people from their homes. Hess Corporationdonated $1 million to the Red Cross for its relief effortsand also created a special matching gift program foremployees who made personal contributions.
Recognizing the devastating consequences of the hurricanes
on children in the damaged areas, we were honored to joinwith the U.S. Marine Corps Toys for Tots holiday programand donated 50,000 of our 2005 Hess toy trucks.
10ALTERNATIVE ENERGY
LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS
Natural gas, together with energy conservation, 
efficiency, and renewable energy, can help meet the growing demand for cleaner energy, while helping to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and air pollutants.The Company has a 50 percent interest in a joint venture,
Hess LNG, which is pursuing investments in liquefied 
natural gas (LNG) terminals and related supply, trading and marketing opportunities. 
LNG is used to move natural gas from producers to 
consumers where pipelines are not economically viable due to distance or technical limitations. LNG is producedwhen natural gas is cooled and condenses to a liquid. Prior to the liquefaction process, oxygen, carbon dioxide, sulphur compounds, water and other impurities are removed from the gas.
Natural gas can help mitigate climate change, as it 
produces far fewer global warming gases than either traditional coal or oil technologies. Natural gas produces fewer emissions of acid rain and ozone smog precursors,and produces no mercury, as compared to other traditionalfossil fuel technologies. LNG could help to repower coaland oil fired electric power plants to a cleaner fuel whilecombined cycle natural gas-fired turbines help provide anefficient technology for generating grid-scale electricity. RENEWABLE ENERGY
Through Nuvera Fuel Cells Inc., Hess is diversifying itsenergy portfolio by investing in new fuel sources and enduse technologies. Nuvera is engaged in developing multi-fuel processors and fuel cell stacks for fuel cell vehiclesand stationary applications that will provide an importantenergy alternative with lower greenhouse emissions.
ENERGY EFFICIENCY
Hess supports the development of energy efficient technologies through the Hess Microgen subsidiary. Hess Microgen cogeneration units generate both electricaland thermal power from the same energy source. Thecogeneration units are more efficient than central power stations and subject to lower transmission losses resultingin a greater percentage of fuel conversion into usable energy. In addition to natural gas fueled units, systems havebeen developed to run on methane derived from livestockfacilities such as dairy farms. With regards to air emissions,the units are capable of meeting some of the lowest emission standards in the world (www.hessmicrogen.com).
11VERIFICATION OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE
ERM Certification & Verification Services (ERM CVS) wascommissioned by Hess Corporation to undertake verification ofits 2005 Environment, Health, Safety and Social ResponsibilityReport (the Report). This is the fourth year that ERM CVS hasbeen engaged by Hess Corporation in this role. The objective ofthe verification was to establish that the information presentedis a reliable representation of Hess Corporation’s performanceand programs.
The verification scope included both data and representations
made by Hess Corporation in the 2005 Report and relevantlinked information provided by the Company at their web site.Verification of information pertaining to Hovensa, a refiningjoint venture has not been included in the scope of our activities. The Management of Hess Corporation is responsiblefor the information contained within the Report.
VERIFICATION APPROACH
ERM CVS verification procedures and methodologies have been developed with due regard to the requirements ofinternational standards governing environmental managementsystems, and general principles of auditing. Our verificationapproach involves detailed challenge of the contents of the report,random chain of custody audits for data, selected interrogationof both source and consolidated data, and interviews with corporate and operational staff with responsibilities for datamanagement and report content. Substantiation of a sample ofstatements and claims made in the Report has been undertaken
and evidence sought where deemed appropriate. We did not
attend, nor directly communicate with, any stakeholder groupsor individuals.
Our activities included interrogation of source data at the 
following operations: the St Lucia Terminal, the Triton FloatingProduction Storage and Offloading facility in the North Sea, theGarden Banks 260 Platform and a deep water drill ship in theGulf of Mexico. Our choice of operational sites took intoaccount previous locations sampled by ERM CVS as well as typeof activity and region. We also tested data collection and datamanagement practices for Exploration and Production data at
the Houston and Aberdeen Offices. Consolidated data practiceswere interrogated at both the Hess Corporation Headquarters,and the Marketing and Refining head office. This year interviewswere conducted with staff regarding Hess Corporation activitiesassociated with social programs in South East Asia – specificallyThailand. Business level and Group level data managementprocesses, including internal assurance processes were reviewedfor ability to deliver accurate and reliable data. 
OPINION & RECOMMENDATIONS
In the opinion of ERM CVS, and based on the sample of datareviewed, the Report provides a reasonable level of reliabilityand ERM CVS is not aware of the exclusion of any materialissues or misstatements made in relation to the information presented. Where ERM CVS uncovered errors in data or soughtgreater clarity of text we have confirmed that action has beentaken to address our findings. 
Our key recommendations build on those provided by 
ERM CVS previously and the work that Hess Corporation has
accomplished this year and is committed to pursuing further.These are as follows:
•  A review of waste accounting and compliance issues with the
aim of enhancing the completeness and comparability ofinformation presented in future reports.
•  Development of more consistent methodologies for the 
collation and reporting of data related to water abstraction,use and disposal.
•  The reporting of information on contractor EHS data 
relevant to Hess Corporation’s operations.
•  The reporting of information related to stakeholder interest
and concern and Hess response to these.
Continuation of efforts to develop social responsibility metrics
that will make a meaningful contribution to the understandingof Hess Corporation’s activities and performance in this area.
12ERM Certification and Verification Services
London, July 2006Verification Statement from ERM CVS
 FOR MORE INFORMATION
For copies of our Environment, Health and Safety Policy
and our Corporate Social Responsibility Policy, or for moreinformation regarding our operations, please visit our website at www.hess.com. 
We invite your questions, comments and suggestions
regarding this report. To send us your questions or comments, or request more information or additionalcopies of this report, please contact:
Vice President, 
Environment, Health and SafetyHess Corporation1185 Avenue of the AmericasNew York, NY 10036
You can also send us an e-mail at ehs@hess.com.The Mohawk recycled paper used in this report is 
FSC-certified and contains 100 percent post-consumerwaste. This product is made with windpower and is Green Seal certified. It is acid free.At December 31, 2005, the Company had 692 million barrels of proved crude oil and natural gas liquids reserves and
2,406 million Mcf proved natural gas reserves. Our average number of employees in 2005 was 11,610.
Production & Throughput 2004 2005
Exploration & Production Net Crude Oil and NGL Production (‘000 bbls/day) 246 244
Gross Crude Oil and NGL Production from operated fields (bbls/day)(a) 281 265
Net Natural Gas Production (Mcf/day) 575 544
Gross Natural Gas Production from operated fields (Mcf/day) 1,164 982
Total Net Barrels of Oil Equivalent Production (‘000 bbls/day) 342 335
Refining & Marketing Gross HOVENSA refinery production rate (‘000 bbls/day)(a) 484 461
Port Reading facility production rate (‘000 bbls/day) 52 55
Retail / Terminals throughput (‘000 bbls/day)(a) 561 642
Retail Outlets Year-end(b) 1,254 1,354
Net Refined Products Sold (‘000 bbls/day) 428 456
(a) Gross operated production and throughput figures are used for data normalization for consistency with reported emissions.
(b) Approximately 86 percent are company operated.
Additional operating and financial data are available in our 2005 Annual Report at www.hess.com.2005 OPERATING STATISTICS
Cert no. SW-COC-15761185 Avenue of the Americas
New York, NY 10036
www.hess.com