2014 Corporate Sustainability Report
79372he_Web_LR.pdf   1 7/1/15   4:35 PMERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) conducted representative site visits, reviewed source data and our internal  data 
collection and aggregation system and conducted interviews to ensure the information presented is a reliable representation of our 
performance. An ERM CVS assurance statement has been included at the end of this report. ERM CVS also provided an opinion on th e GRI 
Application Level.Hess Values set the framework 
and establish the ethical standards  by which we conduct our business.Integrity.  We are committed to the highest level of integrity in 
all our relationships.
People. We are committed to attracting, retaining and 
energizing the best people by investing in their professional development and providing them with challenging and rewarding opportunities for personal growth.
Performance.  We are committed to a culture of performance 
that demands and rewards outstanding results throughout our business.
Value Creation.  We are committed to creating shareholder 
value based on sustained financial performance and long term profitable growth.
Social Responsibility. We are committed to meeting the 
highest standards of corporate citizenship by protecting the health and safety of our employees, safeguarding the environment and creating a long lasting, positive impact on the communities where we do business.
Independent Spirit. We are committed to preserving the 
special qualities and unique personality that have made us a successful independent enterprise.
Note: Following a review by ERM CVS, our external verifier, Hess is  
self-declaring a GRI G3.1 Application level of A+ in conformance with  the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.This is our Communication on Progress 
in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact.
We welcome feedback on its contents. HESS VALUES
ON THE COVER
Drilling Operations, Gulf of MexicoREPORT APPLICATION LEVELS
ASSURANCE
79372he_Web_LR.pdf   2 7/1/15   4:35 PMTABLE OF 
CONTENTS
44 30
 2   Message from the CEO  
Our CEO’s view on building a sustainable 
enterprise  
 4   About Hess  
Our company operations in brief
 5      Progress and Goals  
A snapshot of our progress and path 
forward
 6    Approach to Reporting  
A description of our materiality assessment, 
reporting framework and boundaries 
 8    How We Operate  
The values that define our expectations for 
sustainable management and performance  
 16      Community and Social Performance  
A review of corporate social responsibility 
as a way of doing business  
 24    Safety and Health  
Aiming to get everyone, everywhere, every 
day, home safe
 30   Our People 
Creating a company culture and high quality 
workforce that innovates, leads and learns 
 34       Climate Change and Energy 
   Balancing the world’s growing energy needs   
    with cost-effective greenhouse gas      emission reductions 
 44    Environment  
Responsible management of our 
environmental footprint 
 52    Performance Data 
Five years of key performance metrics
54      GRI Content Index  
57      Independent Assurance Statement  24
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   1 7/1/15   3:39 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   3 7/1/15   4:35 PM2Overall, 2014 was a year of strong execution and operating 
results for our company, and marked the completion of our transformation into an exploration and production company. 
  
While our industry continues to be challenged by the sharp decline in oil prices that began late last year, Hess is well positioned to manage through the current environment while preserving our long term growth options. We have a strong balance sheet, a focused portfolio of world class assets and top quartile operating capabilities. 
Our company is steadfastly committed to being a trusted 
energy partner that helps meet the world’s growing energy needs in a safe, environmentally responsible, socially sensitive and profitable way. Fundamental to that commitment are the Hess Values of Integrity, People, Performance, Value Creation, Social Responsibility and Independent Spirit. Through our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, we translate these Values into sustainable practices that guide the way we do business. In 2014 we advanced several key initiatives aimed at driving long term sustainable performance: enhancing global standards, improving our environment, health, safety and social responsibility strategy, and applying “lean” principles across our operations to create additional value and eliminate waste. 
As we strive for continuous improvement in safety 
performance, our ultimate goal is to reach zero safety incidents – a goal that is shared at every level throughout our company. In 2014 we made significant progress in safety performance. Our combined employee and contractor Total Recordable Incident Rate decreased by 23 percent, and our Lost Time Incident Rate was down by 14 percent compared with previous year performance. To align safety and health systems for our contractors, who make up more than 80 percent of our workforce, with our internal expectations, we utilize safety prequalification systems and supplier assessments. 
Process safety is another critical focus area for the company 
in order to prevent unintentional releases that could result in a major incident. Throughout the year, we took significant steps to strengthen the three key strategic elements of our process safety program: enhancing process safety leadership; understanding and addressing process safety vulnerabilities; and educating people across the organization in process safety awareness. At Hess we strive to make a positive impact on the 
communities where we do business. Corporate social responsibility enhances our ability to be an effective, profitable and trusted energy partner and is a way of doing business for Hess. We integrate social considerations into our business planning using a three-faceted approach that brings together stakeholder engagement, social risk and impact management, and strategic social investment while minimizing the social and environmental impacts from operations. Our corporate social responsibility governance framework includes commitments to international voluntary initiatives that are designed to protect the environment, promote human rights and encourage financial transparency.  In 2014 we continued with our endorsement of commitments to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the United Nations Global Compact, the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, and the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative.
Hess’ strategic social investments are aimed at creating 
shared value that improves the quality of life in local communities and helps create a favorable operating environment. Our social investment program in 2014 totaled $42 million, with about $34 million directed toward education projects. The balance is directed primarily to economic development, health and capacity building.
To meet the world’s energy needs, all forms of energy are 
needed, with fossil fuels continuing to make up the majority of supply for the foreseeable future. The International Energy Agency’s most recent forecast projects energy demand to increase 37 percent by 2040, with fossil fuels comprising 74 percent of the energy mix. Therefore, it is more important than ever for cooperation between world leaders and industry to develop comprehensive energy and climate solutions. We acknowledge the need for transparent and equitable carbon price signals that will promote energy efficiency and a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.  
Our focus is on cost effective climate change policy 
responses that balance mitigation, adaptation and societal priorities. We manage climate change risks, along with many other business risks, through our enterprise risk management process. Between 2008 and 2014, we have reduced net 
MESSAGE FROM THE CEO
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   2 7/1/15   3:39 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   4 7/1/15   4:35 PM3equity greenhouse gas emissions from our oil and gas  
operations by 40 percent, or over 4 million tonnes of absolute  emissions, through a combination of improved operating processes, asset sales and refinery closures. 
In the United States, oil and gas from shale has become a 
critically important source of supply. The shale revolution has put the U.S. on a path to energy independence, buoyed national and state economies, bolstered tax revenues for federal, state, and local governments, and helped bring down energy related carbon dioxide emissions as natural gas has replaced coal in electricity generation. As an industry, we need to do a better job of educating the public about energy’s value as a natural resource, its importance to our economy, and the practices that are in place to ensure that we are operating in a safe and environmentally and socially responsible manner.  
Hess, as one of the largest producers in the Bakken play in 
North Dakota and as an emerging producer in the Utica wet gas play in Ohio, is committed to responsible shale energy development. We have a flaring reduction strategy in place and have been steadily investing in supporting infrastructure, and we have onsite operating practices to prevent potential surface water and groundwater impacts. We also have ongoing efforts to reduce or eliminate the use of chemical additives in fracturing fluids, and require our hydraulic fracturing contractors to make nonproprietary data publicly available on the FracFocus website regarding the chemicals used in each fractured well. 
Improving the safe transport of crude oil by rail is a growing 
concern to be addressed through a shared effort among railroad operators, regulators and producers. At Hess, we  are committed to doing our part to minimize the risks involved through our own practices and as part of oil and  gas industry efforts. 
 All of our assets undergo multidisciplinary risk assessments 
to identify mitigation measures we can pursue to help protect the environment, the communities in which we operate and the safety of our workforce. We provide extensive information on our programs and performance through our annual corporate sustainability report and on our company website at hess.com. 
Our strong operating results in 2014 are a tribute to our 
high-quality workforce and a company culture that fosters performance, professional growth and teamwork. The divestiture of multiple businesses affected a significant number of employees in 2014. In keeping with our Values, Hess provided comprehensive support to ease the transition for those impacted, including an enhanced severance program. Looking ahead, we will continue our focus on talent management, employee engagement, learning and development and diversity and inclusion, with the recognition that our employees hold the key to our company’s continued success.
Our 2014 Corporate Sustainability report shows how 
sustainable business practices are integrated into our short term goals and long term strategy, particularly in managing the key challenges and opportunities with economic, environmental and social performance. We are proud of our progress in 2014 and confident in our ability to build a sustainable enterprise that makes a positive difference for our stakeholders and the world around us. We are thankful for the ongoing support and partnership of our employees, communities, customers, suppliers, business partners and investors today and in the future.
John B. Hess  
Chief Executive Officer
2014 Corporate Sustainability Report
We are proud of our progress in 2014 and conﬁdent  
in our ability to build a sustainable enterprise that makes a positive difference for our stakeholders and the  world around us.
                                                  
John B. Hess , Chief Executive Ofﬁcer  “
”
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   3 7/1/15   3:39 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   5 7/1/15   4:35 PM4ABOUT HESS
Hess Corporation is a leading global independent energy company engaged in the 
exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas.
2014 HIGHLIGHTS
•  Averaged 83,000 barrels of oil 
equivalent per day (BOEPD) net production from the Bakken oil shale play in North Dakota, a 24 percent increase over 2013
•  In March 2014, commenced operation 
of our expanded Tioga, North Dakota, gas plant 
•  Achieved first production at the Hess 
operated Tubular Bells Field in the Gulf  of Mexico in November 2014 
•  In the Utica shale in Ohio, brought 39 
wells into operation, increasing wet gas production to 13,000 BOEPD in the fourth quarter of 2014
•  In the North Malay Basin, averaged 40 
million cubic feet of gas per day net production in 2014, a 33 percent increase over the fourth quarter of 2013
•  Completed a three well appraisal 
program on the Deepwater Tano Cape Three Points block, offshore Ghana 
ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTIONS
In 2014 our direct economic contributions included payments to suppliers, capital and exploration expenditures, wages and benefits, taxes and royalties, interest, dividends and social investments.
A portion of capital and exploration expenditures 
may include payments to suppliers. Carbon and NOx Taxes                              $3               Wages and Benefits (U.S.)                        $1,040 
 Income Tax Expense                                  $744 
 Interest Expense                                        $323  Dividends                                                   $303  Capital and Exploration Expenditures      $5,606 
 Royalties and Other Payments                 $707 
 Social Investments                                    $42  Recordable Supplier Spend (E&P)            $8,267 $ MillionsOur key exploration locations are the Gulf of Mexico, 
Ghana, Guyana and Nova Scotia.
Developments are underway at several assets, including 
Stampede in the Gulf of Mexico, as well as staged developments at the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area and the Hess operated North Malay Basin project in the Gulf of Thailand.
Production operations are ongoing globally. Key 
production assets include the Bakken in North Dakota, Baldpate and Tubular Bells in the Gulf of Mexico, the Utica in Ohio, Okume and Ceiba in Equatorial Guinea, South Arne in Denmark, Valhall in Norway and the Malaysia/Thailand Joint  Development Area. Exploration 
 Developments 
 ProductionHess Portfolio of Operations
Exploration
Developments
Production
Replaced Production158%
Years Reserve Life11.7
Million BOE Proved Reserves1,431
BOEPD Total Net 
Hydrocarbons Produced329,000
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   4 7/1/15   3:39 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   6 7/1/15   4:35 PM5PROGRESS AND GOALS
Based on the International Energy 
Agency’s most recent long term forecast, energy demand is expected to increase almost 40 percent by 2040, with fossil fuels comprising approximately 75 percent of the energy mix. The growth  in energy demand will come from emerging market countries trying to advance their standards of living and meet societal priorities. Demand in developed countries will remain flat.    Meeting this long term demand will 
require all types of energy, including fossil fuels and renewables. 
As a company, our mission is to meet 
society’s energy requirements in an environmentally and socially responsible, safe and profitable way. Our success as a company depends upon fully integrating both technical and non-technical risks into our lean philosophy and daily operating  
rhythm and then exhibiting outstanding execution.
The purpose of this page is to provide  
a snapshot of our progress and path forward with respect to our most material environment, social and governance (ESG) programs and initiatives. In-depth discussion of these topics can be found throughout this report.  
Issue Progress Path Forward
How We  
OperateOperating in a challenging  
environment (low oil prices/excess supply)
Protecting our license to 
operate and enhancing our reputationContinued to implement lean principles to 
eliminate waste and drive continuous improvement
Maintained focus on enterprise risk management 
as an integral part of operational excellence
Began rollout of enhanced global standards to 
formalize enterprise wide expectations and responsibilities
Began updating our environment, health, safety 
and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy
Increased scope of ESG disclosuresDeploy lean metrics 
Continue to embed enterpise risk 
management process into business functions 
Roll out and implement complete set of 
enhanced global standards 
Complete EHS & SR strategy refresh and 
establish metrics to gauge performance
Expand reporting to meet growing 
stakeholder expectations
Community  
and Social 
PerformanceEnhancing our reputation as a trusted energy partnerReviewed social, political and economic 
environments for existing and proposed areas of operation to identify non-technical risks and mitigation activities and to integrate them into our strategic planning
Developed a standard enterprise wide 
stakeholder engagement process and set of tools  Continue to integrate stakeholder 
engagement, social risk and impact management and social investment into enterprise business processes
Expand grievance mechanisms across the 
enterprise
Safety  
and HealthFocusing on continuous improvement as we aspire toward zero incidentsFocused on enhancing personal and process 
safety leadership, identifying vulnerabilities and educating employees 
Incorporated EHS reviews into the procurement 
process
Procured more than 500 railcars with enhanced 
safety performance featuresContinue to enhance enterprise wide 
contractor prequaliﬁcation and selection process
Remain actively engaged with multi-
stakeholder rail safety task forces
Our People Managing major structural changes in our organization as part of a multi-year transformation to an exploration and production  companyEffectively managed the divestiture of the 
downstream businesses, which resulted in a signiﬁcantly smaller employee workforce 
Renewed focus on key human resources 
programsProgress initiatives in key programs, including 
employee engagement, onboarding, talent management, diversity and inclusion, process efﬁciency, reliability and data integrity
Climate  
Change,  
Energy and 
EnvironmentResponsibly managing our environmental footprintExpanded carbon asset risk and methane 
reporting 
Continued to build infrastructure in North 
Dakota to transport associated gas to market and reduce ﬂaring
Conducted environmental impact assessments 
for new or proposed projectsWork toward setting reasonable methane 
reduction targets through the ONE Future coalition
Expand depth of carbon asset risk reporting Meet regulatory requirement to reduce North 
Dakota wellhead ﬂaring to 10 percent by 2020
Examine additional opportunities to reduce 
waste and environmental footprint
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   5 7/1/15   3:39 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   7 7/1/15   4:35 PM6
This report describes the company’s 
strategy and performance regarding significant economic, environmental and social issues in 2014. Financial and governance information, including our annual report, our U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Form 10-K filing and our proxy statement, is available on our website. 
REPORTING STANDARDS 
We annually report our sustainability performance based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1/Oil & Gas Sector Supplement guidelines, to an A+ application level. Our report is also based on the Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting developed by IPIECA, the American Petroleum Institute and the International Oil and Gas Producers Association, as well as on the 10 principles of the United Nations (UN) 
Global Compact. A GRI Content Index, cross-referenced with IPIECA indicators and the UN Global Compact principles, is provided at the end of this report. 
MATERIALITY 
Over the past several years we have strengthened our materiality assessment process. By engaging key stakeholders, including employees, suppliers, customers, communities, shareholders, governmental and non-governmental organizations, industry peers and academics, we are able to maintain and strengthen our license to operate. New and emerging issues that are important to these groups form the basis for the content of this sustainability report, consistent with the GRI G3.1 guidelines for determining materiality. In early 2015, we conducted a 
materiality assessment survey to validate our internal assessment and expand upon it to ensure that we incorporate stakeholder expectations into our materiality assessment. The results of our materiality assessment survey are presented on the next page. While we report on a broad range of GRI and IPIECA indicators, we consider the topics listed as our most material, in the order in which they are disclosed in this report.
BOUNDARY SETTING 
The scope of this report includes principal facilities and assets operated by Hess Corporation and its subsidiaries during calendar year 2014, unless otherwise indicated. The majority of data presented are gross figures from operated facilities, unless specified otherwise. 
In 2014 Hess completed the divestiture 
of its downstream businesses. The Retail business was part of the Hess portfolio through the third quarter of 2014. Limited 2014 data for this business is provided separately on our website. 
We report some quantitative  
environment, health and safety data on a normalized basis to facilitate year-on-year comparisons. We report greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions on both an operated and net equity share basis in accordance with the IPIECA Petroleum Industry Guidelines for Reporting GHG Emissions (2nd edition, May 2011). GHG data for the joint venture Bayonne Energy Center are APPROACH TO REPORTING
See our expanded performance data at 
hess.com/sustainability/performance-data/
key-sustainability-metrics
Utica Shale Drilling Operations, OhioAdditional sustainability and investor  
information is available at hess.com/investorsAn expanded GRI Index is available at  
hess.com/gri-index
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   6 7/1/15   3:39 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   8 7/1/15   4:35 PM7excluded from the reporting boundary 
because this asset was part of the downstream divestiture.
We also report our social investments 
for our operated assets, joint ventures and non-operated facilities in which we hold a significant interest. 
RESTATEMENTS AND 
ADDITIONS 
To enable comparisons, prior years’ 
safety and environmental data in this report have been restated to reflect the upstream (exploration and production) business only, with a few exceptions. On an individual basis, divestitures did not meet the threshold for removing them from our 2008 GHG emissions baseline. This is discussed further in the Climate Change and Energy section of this report. Our social investment spend has also not been restated, since the  downstream-focused investments were not material, representing a very small 
percentage of the overall expenditure (less than 5 percent).
INTERNAL QUALITY ASSURANCE 
We have internal documentation and information systems in place to promote consistent and reliable data collection and aggregation from all of our Hess operated and joint venture assets. We conduct quality assurance/quality control reviews and validation to evaluate the accuracy and reliability of facility specific and aggregated data. Due to rounding, individual numbers in the charts, tables and text may not sum to the total amounts shown. The unit of currency used in this report is the U.S. dollar.
EXTERNAL ASSURANCE 
ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) conducts annual third party assurance of our sustainability report, including 
consistent and objective data collection and the reporting of our sustainability performance. ERM CVS also reviews our self-declared GRI G3.1 Application Level. In previous years ERM CVS’ assurance related to the business at the time (including the Marketing and Refining business). As 2013 and earlier data have been restated in this year’s report to reflect the upstream business, it should be noted that this year’s assurance process included the 2014 data and that the restated numbers for prior years have not been assured.
The Independent Assurance Statement 
is provided on page 57 of this report. In addition to providing assurance in relation to our sustainability report, ERM CVS also conducts a separate verification of the GHG emissions data provided in this report and in our CDP Climate Change response.Materiality Assessment Process
•  Internal evaluations of risk and  
impact
•  Feedback from internal and 
external stakeholders
• Prior sustainability reports•  External reporting standards  
and frameworks
•  Investor and rating agency  
inquiries and surveys
• Sector benchmarking •  Formal surveys of internal and 
external subject matter experts
• Media coverage•  Relevance to our business  
strategy
•  Level of risk and impact to Hess
• Coverage by our industry peers• Stakeholder expectations•  Occurrence in external  
reporting frameworks and  surveys• Transparency in business conduct
•  Community and stakeholder  
engagement
• Human rights and security• Process safety and spills•  Emergency preparedness and  
response
•  Climate change and greenhouse  
gas emissions
• Water management• Transportation impacts•  Biodiversity and ecosystem  
services impacts 
• Regulatory assurancePrioritize issues 
based on:Determine material 
topics for inclusion in the report:Identify issues for  
consideration using:
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   7 7/1/15   3:39 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   9 7/1/15   4:35 PMHOW WE OPERATE
North Dakota Production Operations
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   8 7/1/15   3:40 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   10 7/1/15   4:35 PM9We seek to conduct business in a 
manner that meets the highest standards of corporate citizenship, creates a long lasting, positive impact on the communities where we do business and delivers long term value to our shareholders.
Our goal to be a trusted energy partner 
and our six core Hess Values underpin our business philosophy. The Hess Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (Code of Conduct), along with our policies covering corporate social responsibility, human rights, and environment, health and safety, build on our Values to define our internal expectations for sustainable management and performance.
GOVERNANCE AND KEY 
INITIATIVES 
Hess’ governance structure ensures that 
the highest level of oversight rests with  the Board of Directors while direct responsibility lies with the company’s senior leadership.
In 2013 the Board of Directors 
established the Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Subcommittee of the Audit Committee. Each member of the Subcommittee is a member of the Audit Committee and is independent and qualified under standards established by applicable law, stock exchange listing standards and Hess’ Corporate Governance Guidelines. The purpose of the EHS Subcommittee 
is to assist the Board with respect to identifying, evaluating and monitoring EHS risk and strategy that could affect the company’s business activities, performance and reputation, and developing recommendations to the Audit Committee and to the Board on policies, programs and practices to address such issues and risks. The members have extensive oil and gas industry experience, including operations, research and development, and financial expertise. The EHS Subcommittee met four times in 2014.
Hess is governed by the Hess 
Leadership Team (HLT), which is chaired by our CEO and comprises the company’s most senior executives. The HLT focuses on operational, strategic and financial issues and is the highest approval body before the Board of Directors. The HLT meets face to face at least every other month. An operational subcommittee of the HLT, which is chaired by our President and COO, meets weekly and focuses on operational matters. Environmental and social issues and performance are discussed at these meetings.
In 2013 Hess formed the Operational 
Excellence Council (OEC), composed of several senior vice presidents and others, which recommends and governs enterprise wide, high impact initiatives that encompass multiple disciplines. The OEC’s purpose is to ensure alignment and integration, prioritize initiatives, load-level and implement initiatives 2014 KEY DEVELOPMENTS
>  Further strengthened  
our Global Compliance Program>  Enhanced our 
contractor selection, management and review process>  Completed a 
non-technical risk assessment and an integrated risk register for both technical and non-technical risks  for our North Dakota operations2015 GOALS
>  Roll out enhanced 
enterprise wide environment, health and safety standards on a prioritized basis>  Implement our updated 
Conflict of Interest Policy and our new Gifts, Meals, Entertainment, Hospitality and Travel Support Policy>  Complete risk 
assessments and develop integrated  risk registers for  all assets in the  Hess portfolio
Sendje Ceiba, Equatorial Guinea
See Hess’ Corporate Governance Guidelines at  
hess.com/hessgovernanceguidelines
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   9 7/1/15   3:40 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   11 7/1/15   4:35 PM10     consistently, hold initiative leaders 
accountable for delivery and sustain improvement over time. Two key initiatives sponsored by the OEC with direct relevance to environmental and social issues include the environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy refresh project and the global standards project.
EHS & SR Strategy Refresh
With our transformation to an exploration and production company complete, we have begun to refresh and update our climate change, environment, health, safety and social responsibility strategy to align with our goal of becoming a trusted energy partner. We believe that refreshing our enterprise wide EHS & SR strategy will contribute to improving operational effectiveness and management of stakeholder expectations, reducing risk and protecting our license to operate. 
We began working on our strategy 
refresh in the fall of 2014 by developing and implementing the governance structure for the project, including a Strategy Refresh Project Team and a Steering Committee, and conducting kickoff meetings. Operations, Enterprise Risk, Corporate Strategic Planning, EHS, 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Government Affairs and Sustainability managers and professionals compose the project team, which will develop the elements of the new strategy. The Steering Committee, which includes vice presidents from each of the major disciplines, provides guidance, expertise and strategic direction to the project team. The HLT and the EHS Board Subcommittee periodically review and provide feedback to the Strategy Refresh Project Team and Steering Committee. 
During the fourth quarter of 2014, we 
reviewed all recent asset-specific risk assessments conducted as part of our enterprise risk management process. In the first quarter of 2015, we retained a third party consultant to conduct a survey of material issues for our industry with industry peers and other external stakeholders. Obtaining external views allowed us to validate and build on our internal assessments. We are currently completing the second step of our strategy refresh – the industry benchmarking – and will develop strategic positioning and strategy development recommendations during the third and fourth quarters of 2015. In 
the interim, we plan on retaining several elements of our five-year climate change strategy, which concluded in 2013. Please refer to the Climate Change and Energy section of this report for more detail.
Global Standards
Our management systems provide a framework for managing risk, ensuring operational excellence, tracking key performance metrics and maintaining regulatory compliance. Under the leadership of the OEC, we have been developing and implementing an enhanced framework of global standards as part of our management systems to formalize enterprise wide expectations and accountabilities and support a globally consistent approach to environment, health, safety and social  risk management. 
A risk-based approach was adopted to 
prioritize the order of development and implementation for each of the standards. The first set of enhanced standards was developed by cross-asset and cross-functional development teams and approved by year end 2014, with the second set to follow in 2015. 
Conduct an industry peer 
benchmark analysis on each  of the issues determined to be most material for our industry. Identify policies and  programs that drive best-in- class performance. Review  with Hess leadership.  Clarify Hess’ strategic  
positioning on each material issue relative to the industry benchmark, based on a continuum of laggard to leader. Review with Hess leadership. Develop a detailed EHS & 
SR strategy. Identify metrics to measure performance.  Review with Hess leadership.
Q4 2014–Q1 2015 Q2 2015 Q3 2015 Q4 2015EHS & SR Strategy Refresh Timeline
1Materiality and
Risk Assessment 23 4Industry Peer  
BenchmarkStrategic Positioning  
on Select Issues
Conduct a materiality and risk 
assessment based on three views:  1) an internal review of asset-     specific risk assessments  2) survey results from industry     peers; and  3) survey results from external  
    stakeholders. Strategy Development 
RecommendationsHOW WE OPERATE
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   10 7/1/15   3:40 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   12 7/1/15   4:35 PM11Following the development and approval 
of each set of standards, assets will 
complet e gap assessments and develop 
plans to implement and embed each 
standar d. As the enhance d standards 
are developed, approved and 
implemented, we will continue to check 
and adjust the process regularly to 
ensure their effective and sustainable 
implemen tation.
KEY ENTERPRISE PROCESSE S 
We rigorously apply a number of k ey 
processes in our organization that 
provide the foundat ion for managing  risk 
and achie ving operational excellence at 
Hess. We utilize these processes to 
evaluate investment opportunities and 
identify and mitigate risks in potential, 
new and existing operations.
Enterprise R isk Management
Effective risk management at Hess is at 
the core of our comm itment to 
operational excellence. Our enterprise 
risk management (ERM) process applies 
a compre hensive, standa rdized 
approach to identifying and managin g 
risks of all types across our operations. 
Information from subject matter experts 
and recent audits is used to develop a associat ed likelihood  and potential 
impac t to our business. “Critical” risks 
– risks with highe r likelihood and impac t 
or those that are unlikely but would have 
– are placed on an integrated risk 
register that catalogs actions for 
managing  or mitigating each risk. In 
2014 risk assessments were completed 
and risk registers were begun for all 
assets in the Hess portfolio. In 2015 the 
ERM group will continue to develop risk 
excellence standards and guidelines for 
all risk related functions.
embedding this process into key 
busine ss functions at Hess, including 
project planning and entry into new 
areas of operation. We are also in the 
early stages of integrating risk 
manage ment with our stakeholde r 
engagement  program , which include s 
alignme nt of k ey contacts at the asset 
level and facili tation of stakeholde r 
mapping at ERM workshops to enable 
effective stakeholde r manage ment. For 
more  information about  the stakeholde r 
engagement  program , see the 
Comm unity and Social Performance 
section of this report.Value Assurance
Value Assurance is an independent 
review process within Hess to ensure 
that investme nt oppor tunities and 
decisions  are properly char acterized and 
assessed. Major capital projects are 
screened at various stages to verify that 
environmen tal and socioe conomic 
concerns, regulat ory require ments and 
other non-technical risks have been 
incorporated into early project design 
and plannin g. 
A major project follows a series of 
“stage gates,” which ensures that 
recomme ndations made  to mitigate 
them, at each stage before the project 
transitions to the next stage. At the 
Frame Stage, for example, a d ecision to 
proceed is based on the risk and 
comme rcial feasibility and the economic 
viability of project alternatives. During 
the Screen Stage , risks, uncer tainties 
preferred option meeting economic  and 
Stage is marked by the completion of a 
Project Execution Plan and Risk 
Mitigation Plan, leading to project 
sanct ion.
 
FRAME
• Outline objectives 
• Determine technical  
  and commer cial  
   viability
• Identify alter nativesSCREEN
• Develop objectives 
 and r equir ements 
• Evaluate and rank   options 
• Reduce risks and  uncertainties 
• Select pr eferred 
   optionREFINE
• Optimize pr eferred  
  option 
   delivery 
• Secur e fundingIMPLEMENT
 optionOPERA TE
• Operate in line with  
   budget and plan 
• Meet/exceed sanction    metrics 
• Meet Pr oduction 
  Excellence 
   expectations 
• Post-pr oject r eviewValue As surance ProcessGate r eview and decision
Handover to Operations T eamGate r eview and decision
Gate r eview and decision2014 Corporate Sustainability Report12During the Implement Stage, the project 
must demonstrate operational readiness. The final stage is Operate;  the project is handed over to the Operations Team and begins production operations.
New Country Entry
When evaluating opportunities in a new country of operation, we assess non- technical above ground risks associated with that location using the new country entry (NCE) process. This cross-functional process involves a detailed questionnaire through which Hess subject matter experts from across the business provide input on various risks – including social, environment, legal, external affairs, compliance, commercial and supply chain risks – associated with operating in a particular country. The review draws on available information from governmental sources such as the U.S. State Department and leading non-governmental organizations to categorize each risk as high, medium or low based on severity and whether the risk can be easily mitigated. 
The NCE process enhances the quality 
and breadth of information available to Hess leadership when evaluating new opportunities and enables the mitigation of identified risks by the project team once a commitment is made to enter a new country. The results of this process support our enterprise risk management and value assurance workflows, enabling us to use this information at key decision points in our investment and project planning processes.
Beginning in 2013 this process was 
expanded from new projects to include an annual review of all significant existing assets, which allows for a recurring, formalized evaluation of risk in 
our ongoing activities.
Lean
Hess has adopted lean principles to drive continuous improvement and enable the company to provide value to communities, employees, business partners, shareholders and other stakeholders. To Hess, lean is not a tactical, a near term or a cost cutting program. Rather, it is a way of thinking and acting for an organization to create value, improve performance and eliminate waste. 
Lean begins with building a company 
culture of learning and execution. With a deep respect for people, our leaders engage employees to develop problem- solving skill sets, enabling employees to eliminate waste and solve problems they face every day. We are actively managing our value streams, creating standard work, identifying customer–supplier relationships, defining clear hand-offs, enabling smooth work flows and continuing to improve our standards.
Our high-level strategy is cascaded to 
individual objectives. Our business plans focus on the key breakthroughs 
necessary to meet our short and long term goals. We track daily operational and breakthrough progress, make problems visible and structure operating meetings to efficiently address clearly defined issues. And we apply structured problem-solving using the scientific method, constantly striving for perfection. 
Lean was first deployed in Hess’ 
onshore unconventional assets, where field development depends on drilling, completing and producing from a large number of wells. Lean principles, tools and methodologies were initially applied in the Bakken in North Dakota, where Hess has drilled and completed more than 200 wells annually over the past several years. Since 2011 Hess has reduced drilling cycle time by more than 50 percent and drilling and completion costs by almost 50 percent while improving safety performance by more than 50 percent. Applying lessons learned in the Bakken, Hess has implemented lean in its Utica asset in Ohio. As this unconventional asset has completed its appraisal phase and moved into development, the team has 
HOW WE OPERATE
+Lean Principles
Quality
Business
PlansClear
DashboardsEffective
Operating
RhythmStructured
Problem 
Solving
Standard Processes                  Value Stream Management
Leadership Behavior and People Development
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   12 7/1/15   3:40 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   14 7/1/15   4:35 PM13reduced its drilling cycle time by almost 
70 percent and drilling costs per foot by 40 percent. Offshore assets have also begun to apply lean principles to their operations.
ETHICAL BUSINESS CONDUCT 
Our Code of Conduct describes the business conduct and behaviors that Hess expects of its employees, officers, directors and contractors. We expect that our suppliers, contractors, agents and other business partners will follow similar principles when working for Hess and our subsidiaries. The Code of Conduct has been translated for employees in each of our countries of operation outside the United States. 
The company takes disciplinary actions, 
including termination of employment or services, for violations of the Code of Conduct and related policies.  
Our compliance policies and procedures 
all stem from the Code of Conduct. The Global Compliance Program establishes, maintains and enforces policies, procedures, processes and initiatives to prevent and detect compliance 
violations. Its aim is to promote an organizational culture that encourages commitment to ethical conduct and compliance with the law. To continuously improve compliance controls and embrace best practices, our Global Compliance organization focuses on internal investigations, anti-corruption and other enterprise programs. The  Chief Compliance Officer reports to the General Counsel and informs the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors on a regular basis.
In 2014 Hess globally implemented the 
Gifts, Meals, Entertainment, Hospitality and Travel Support Policy and the Conflicts of Interest Policy to provide employees with further guidance regarding what constitutes ethical business conduct. Additional noteworthy accomplishments included the rollout of a new online training program on these  policies and the Code of Conduct, which  
was completed by 100 percent of employees throughout the year. In addition, enhanced investigative tracking and reporting mechanisms for 
employees were put in place to promote greater access and transparency. 
These initiatives are continuing into 
2015. The Global Compliance group is further enhancing Hess’ Anti-Corruption Compliance Program through the implementation of an updated Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy and Procedure, the rollout of automated approval systems and the launch of online anti-corruption training. These global initiatives will occur in 2015 and  into 2016. 
POLITICAL SPENDING 
Under Hess policy, all colleagues (defined as full time, part time and contract employees) are prohibited from using Hess funds to contribute to a national, state or local political campaign, a political party, or election committee, or to pay a debt related to such activities. This prohibition includes both direct and indirect cash and in-kind contributions. In 2014 there were no political contributions made by Hess employees using corporate funds.
In the United States, federal election  
law permits corporations to establish political action committees (PACs), which may make political contributions. In February 2014 the company formed the Hess PAC for eligible employee contributions. All contributions to the Hess PAC are voluntary and publicly disclosed to the U.S. Federal Election Commission (fec.gov). In 2014 the Hess PAC received $21,500 in contributions and did not make any disbursements.  As legally permitted, Hess corporate funds, resources and facilities were used to provide administrative support for the Hess PAC.  
Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area, Gulf of Thailand2014 Corporate Sustainability Report
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   13 7/1/15   3:40 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   15 7/1/15   4:35 PM14Hess belongs to a number of trade 
associations, primarily to give the company access to the business, technical and industry best practices expertise of these associations. Hess actively engages with various industry and trade groups (organized under the Internal Revenue Code) in the United States. In 2014 Hess contributed $250,000 to the Greater North Dakota Chamber for advocacy on issues that would preserve and promote a healthy, pro-business environment in the state. The advocacy included the Chamber’s campaign opposing the passage of general election ballot Measure 5. This measure sought to redirect 5 percent of North Dakota’s revenue from its oil extraction tax to a new, independent conservation fund not administered by the state, which Hess believes would have had a negative impact on the oil and gas producing business environment. The voters in North Dakota defeated the measure in November 2014 by a 60 percent margin. Except for funds contributed to the Greater North Dakota Chamber, no payments made by Hess to 501(c)(6) or 501(c)(4)organizations were used for express political advocacy. A list of memberships and associations that received more than $50,000 from Hess in 2014 can be found on page 58 of this report.
We recognize that our positions do not 
always align with all formal positions of the associations, organizations and collaborative working groups in which we participate. Our funding should not be considered a direct endorsement of the entire range of activities undertaken by these membership organizations. To address concerns related to potential misalignment, we publish our positions on key sustainability issues in this annual sustainability report.SUPPLY CHAIN 
Our global reach extends well beyond our individual company operations to our business partners, suppliers and contractors. Maintaining a competitive and secure supply chain is one of the key ways we reduce our operational  risk. In 2014 we purchased more than  $8 billion of goods and services from more than 5,000 suppliers, and contractor manhours comprised more than 80 percent of our total workforce hours.
Supplier Qualiﬁcations
We employ a standardized approach to evaluate and measure the performance of potential and current suppliers on the basis of total value, including safety, quality, delivery and cost. We have a centralized system in place globally that houses all contract templates and other key materials and manages the contractor procurement process. We also use a central, global electronic sourcing system in a majority of our locations to collect bids and evaluate suppliers. This system allows for the efficient creation of online Requests for Proposals and encourages the use of best practices. 
Our contractor prequalification and 
selection process helps to ensure we are working with the most qualified companies. Where appropriate, potential contractors undergo a risk review, an anti-corruption and legal compliance review and a review of EHS programs and performance. Our procurement staff also reviews the potential contractors’ insurance, tax, legal and quality information; in case of discrepancies with our standards, the relevant department within Hess conducts an additional review. Contracts that involve higher risk, due 
either to the number of manhours the contractors will work at Hess or the nature of that work, automatically trigger an EHS review in the procurement process. As one part of the EHS review, we use recognized industry prequalification systems for most major areas of operations, including in the United States and Europe. This includes a review of training qualifications, safety programs and performance, an environmental checklist and proof of insurance. Potential contractors receive a rating based on this review. In cases where a contractor receives a rating that does not meet our requirements, an improvement plan should be in place before a contract with that supplier is established. Beginning in 2015, these formalized improvement plans are housed internally at the asset level using our existing EHS data system. 
Elsewhere, we use a standardized 
process with a questionnaire based on 14 safety and environmental elements. In our U.S. operations, the EHS review will also typically include an on-location audit.   
Supply Chain Transparency and 
Compliance 
Our suppliers of goods and services 
must comply with applicable laws and regulations in areas such as EHS, drug and alcohol use, conflicts of interest and anti-corruption laws, and must maintain any licensing or permitting requirements with respect to their activities. Contractors are also required to abide by our Code of Conduct. Standard contract clauses include requirements with respect to ethical business practices, human rights, social responsibility, business integrity, search and seizure and quality.  HOW WE OPERATE
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   14 7/1/15   3:40 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   16 7/1/15   4:35 PM15In addition, clauses that cover federal 
contractor requirements are included for suppliers supporting our U.S. operations. Contracts typically also include a requirement that suppliers and contractors allow access to all offices and facilities and cooperate fully with all audits and inspections.
Security Services
Our Code of Conduct prohibits the use of local military or law enforcement personnel except where required by local authorities or in emergency situations. If the use of local military or law enforcement personnel is unavoidable, asset managers are requested to seek prior approval from Hess’ Legal Department and Global Security function. 
In operating locations where security 
services are necessary, we contract for these services locally with support from our Global Security and Global Supply Chain functions. Contracts with security services providers include clauses covering security and human rights expectations. These clauses detail our expectations for security providers to adhere to applicable international law enforcement principles, humanitarian law and human rights law. The clauses require our security contractors to communicate our human rights, social responsibility and ethical expectations to their employees and subcontractors, as well as demonstrate compliance. The aim is to ensure delivery of a consistent message of performance expectations for security contractors and drive consistency across Hess operations. These expectations are also detailed in our enterprise wide Security and Human Rights policy. We have also developed a Security and Human Rights Toolkit that can be used locally for training security 
personnel on human rights issues.
In the event of a security incident with 
human rights implications, a report is made to the head of Global Security. Reports are also issued for those occurrences, such as peaceful community protests, that highlight potential future risk. We are not aware of any incidents where public or private security forces engaged community members in 2014, and no incident reports were filed. We are also piloting a formal mechanism to report such incidents internally using our existing data systems and plan to use this tool across the enterprise beginning in 2015. 
Local Content 
Internationally, we often prioritize local suppliers as part of production sharing contracts or other agreements with host countries. These agreements vary, but  may include use of an approved vendor list, requirements for government approval of suppliers or threshold specifications for local companies or 
workers. We are also active participants in an industry partnership task force dedicated to developing and sharing best practices in this area. 
Supplier Engagement and 
Sustainability
Hess continues to engage with suppliers 
on issues that are important to our industry and our stakeholders. Since 2009 we have worked with current and prospective suppliers of hydraulic fracturing services to define acceptable fracturing fluid systems, including restrictions on the selection and use of certain chemicals. We require suppliers to publish fracturing fluid chemical composition and quantities via the FracFocus website. While the majority of chemicals are identified by unique identification numbers issued by the Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS) and are listed on the publicly available CAS Registry, Hess allows its suppliers to use generic names for proprietary ingredients.
Valhall Field, Norway2014 Corporate Sustainability Report
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   15 7/1/15   3:40 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   17 7/1/15   4:35 PMStakeholder Engagement, North DakotaCOMMUNITY AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   16 7/1/15   3:40 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   18 7/1/15   4:35 PM17At Hess, we view corporate social 
responsibility (CSR) as a way of doing business, enhancing our ability to be an effective, profitable and trusted energy partner. By proactively engaging with the communities where we operate, we can maximize our business value, manage social risks and impacts and create opportunities for stakeholders.
We integrate social considerations into 
our business decisions using a three-pronged approach: stakeholder engagement, social risk and impact management, and strategic social investments that facilitate direct and indirect local benefits. Each element informs the others as we work toward continuous improvement. This approach fosters long term relationships, encourages operational success and supports profitable growth.
GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK 
Our Hess Values and our Code of Conduct, which includes expectations regarding human rights, provide the starting point for our commitments to ethical and responsible business practices. Corporate Social Responsibility is one of the six Hess Values; it establishes our commitment to meeting the highest standards of corporate citizenship by protecting the health and safety of our employees, safeguarding the environment, and creating a long lasting positive impact on the communities where we do business.The next level of our CSR governance 
framework includes our commitments to international voluntary initiatives that Hess has endorsed or formally joined (collectively known as our “Voluntary Commitments”) and that are designed to protect the environment, promote human rights — including labor rights — and encourage financial transparency. In addition to our endorsement of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, our Voluntary Commitments include the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (VPs), and the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI). Hess serves on the board of the UNGC’s U.S. network.
Our Corporate Social Responsibility, 
Human Rights, and Security and Human Rights policies all cascade from the umbrella of our Voluntary Commitments. This framework details our commitments to our employees and communities of operation through every phase of our business activity. It also sets expectations for employees and contractors. 
In 2014 we drafted CSR and 
Human Rights Global Standards, which comprise the next level of our framework and cascade from our policies. These two standards were developed to 
expand upon the company’s expectations of business and asset level programs, processes and performance. Training, toolkits and local procedures and plans make up the final level of the framework.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT  
Discovering and producing oil and gas 
have become increasingly challenging for our industry, both technically and in terms of environmental and social considerations. As an international energy company, our access to resources depends on effective engagement with governments, regulators, communities and civil society. As such, it is critical for our company to understand the 2014 KEY DEVELOPMENTS
>  D raf ted 
corporate social responsibility and human rights global standards>  Developed a 
standard enterprise stakeholder engagement (SE) process and began rollout >  Launched a 
stakeholder management database system to support SE  and grievance mechanism processes>  Invested more 
than $42 million in social programs throughout  our portfolio>  Finalize and 
implement corporate social responsibility and human rights global standards>  Implement 
grievance mechanism at three assets>  Continue to 
enhance our stakeholder engagement in all assets, with a specific focus on at least five assets in 2015>  C onduct 
strategic  review of  social investment programs2015 GOALS
Governance Framework
Hess Values 
and Code of 
Conduct
Voluntary Commitments 
and Voluntary Principles
Corporate Social Responsibility, 
Human Rights and Security, and 
Human Rights Policies
CSR and Human Rights Global Standards 
Toolkits, Training and Local Procedures/Plans
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   17 7/1/15   3:41 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   19 7/1/15   4:35 PM18expectations, priorities and concerns  
of our stakeholders, including communities, employees, suppliers, customers, industry members, governments and investors.
We recognize that risks associated with 
our activities can have a significant impact on stakeholder relationships, public perception and the success of a project. In 2014 a multidisciplinary team developed a standard, enterprise wide stakeholder engagement process and set of tools. This process focuses on both the proactive relationship and trust building opportunities created by meaningful engagement, as well as the business value engagement brings when integrated as part of project risk management. Our stakeholder engagement process is consistent with the company’s “Plan, Do, Check, Adjust” continuous improvement methodology utilized by other Hess business processes such as lean, and thus adopts a disciplined methodology that also offers consistency across  the enterprise.
Stakeholder Engagement 
Process 
To operate effectively as guests in host 
communities requires a mutual understanding of expectations between 
Hess and those who live and work nearby. Indeed, stakeholder engagement is a critical aspect of operational success across the entire life cycle of our business, from the earliest phases of our new country entry 
process through the decommissioning of an asset. Proactive, ongoing stakeholder engagement helps set expectations, averting miscommunication and misunderstanding before they start.COMMUNITY AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE
3. DEFINE & IMPLEMENT
Define:
•  Desired Outcome•  Relationship Owner•  Engagement and/or Response•  Indicators and Metrics
Implement Engagement Plan  
           Grievance 
           Management2. ANAYLZE & MAP
Understand: 
Stakes, Needs and TimingInterrelationships One-off or Cross-assetSpecial Cases
Map to Grids:
Rate Influence & Interest
Rate Strength of Relationship1. IDENTIFY OBJECTIVES, 
   RISKS & IMP
STAKEHOLDERS4. R
Track Engagements &
Grievance Resolution
Report Regularly
Share Lessons 
LearnedLong Term & 
Short TermBusinessObjectives
  RisksImpacts/IssuesStakeholder Engagement Process
Ghana Fishermen’s Cooperative
. , . . 4 AA D R D P IDENTIFY VE NAYLZ 1 AAY S 2 R 4 3DE PLEMENT
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   18 7/1/15   3:41 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   20 7/1/15   4:35 PM19EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS
We interact with many different types of external stakeholders, ranging from local landowners, leaseholders and communities to international  
organizations. Our goal is to collaboratively identify opportunities benefiting our host communities, improve our business and s trengthen our 
license to operate. Below are a few select examples of recent stakeholder engagement.
Category External Stakeholder Groups Recent Examples of Engagement 
Land Users/  
LandownersResidents, commercial land interests, farmers and ranchersBakken stakeholder engagement and grievance mechanism 
deployment to improve two-way dialogue and proactive risk management
Resources Users/ Rights Holders Mineral rights owners, water rights owners and users, hunters/ﬁshers/gatherersProactive engagement in both Ghana and Kurdistan with 
community leaders and other stakeholders to better understand their interests and support our operations
Governments Local, regional and national authorities, national military, international governing authoritiesHosted Department of Energy (DOE) Secretary Ernest 
Moniz and Senator Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND) on a visit to Hess’ Bakken asset to educate them on North Dakota production and operations; served on DOE Secretary’s Advisory Board for the Quadrennial Energy Review (QER) and testiﬁed at DOE QER hearing in North Dakota on energy infrastructure challenges
Direct Economic Interests Investment partners, vendors and suppliers, contractors, unions, shareholdersHosted a Supplier Day meeting with representatives from 
Hess’ top 100 suppliers to initiate a supplier engagement process that will lower supply chain costs while continuing safe, reliable, efﬁcient operations
External Business Interests Chambers of commerce, industry organizations, local businesses, sustainability initiativesVice President of Corporate Social Responsibility serves on 
executive committee of IPIECA; leaders of Environment, Health and Safety and CSR functions actively participate in working groups and stakeholder engagement, including on such topics as biodiversity, social responsibility, water, climate change and sustainability reporting
Special Interest Groups NGOs, religious groups, cause-oriented nonproﬁts, community groupsActive participant in multi-stakeholder initiatives, including 
the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, EITI and UNGC, to advance responsible business practices globally
Community Services Local police/ﬁre/EMS, health care services, education, human service agenciesConducted a training drill at Tioga Rail Terminal that 
included several agencies and organizations, including the Local Emergency Planning Committee, Ward County Emergency Management, Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corp., Union Paciﬁc Co., and CHEMTREC. The exercise served as veriﬁcation of roles and responsibilities between the carrier, manufacturer and track owner in the event  of an incident
Indigenous Groups Formally recognized groups, tribal coalitions, government supporting agencies, indigenous advocacy groupsConducted meetings with the Three Afﬁliated Tribes in 
North Dakota, and other Native American tribes of the region, around the Hawkeye Pipeline project. The meetings included project description brieﬁngs, consultations on sensitive cultural areas, and a walkthrough of the pipeline route with the tribes to conduct a survey to identify historic and culturally sensitive sites in the projected corridor. Appropriate adjustments to the route and project were made to preserve those identiﬁed areasEXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS2014 Corporate Sustainability Report
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   19 7/1/15   3:41 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   21 7/1/15   4:35 PM20Hess works to identify and map its 
operational stakeholders and develop  engagement plans at each asset. Assets create, maintain and implement a strategic social investment program tailored to that operation and community. 
Grievance Mechanisms
Formal grievance mechanisms support stakeholders who are seeking to share feedback with companies on their operational impacts and help ensure that the company has a process to respond to and act on that feedback. Through our membership in IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues, and in partnership with six of our sector peers, in 2014 we participated in a voluntary pilot project at one of our shale energy asset locations. We also developed an internal database to support implementation and management of our stakeholder engagement and grievance mechanism processes. 
We are applying the learnings from our 
site specific grievance mechanism pilot to an enterprise wide set of guidance and accompanying tools to support our 
efforts to enhance our ability to listen to, engage and respond to stakeholders. Through a consistent application of robust grievance mechanisms, we hope to strengthen our relationships with communities and respond more effectively to their concerns, thus addressing issues before they grow into more severe or widespread problems.  
SOCIAL RISK AND IMPACT 
MANAGEMENT 
Engaging with stakeholders helps us to 
proactively identify, mitigate and manage above ground risks that can impact communities and projects. Prior to new country entry, project startup, or expanding existing facilities, we examine the social, political and economic environment to identify non-technical risks and mitigation activities and integrate them into our strategic planning. Recent examples include the following:
•    We completed a third party social and 
environmental baseline study for Hess’ Bakken operations and surrounding communities. The findings provided Hess with a better understanding of                  environmental and social issues the 
region is facing. The study captured feedback from internal and external stakeholders, and the findings have    been incorporated into mitigation 
plans, stakeholder discussions and industry partnership opportunities.  The study will also help inform social investments going forward.
•  We conducted social and 
environmental studies in Kurdistan, Equatorial Guinea and Malaysia in conjunction with our  operational activity and to provide additional information for social  responsibility and investment programs. 
•  We commissioned a report of the 
downtown Houston area where Hess Tower is located. The report identified socio-economic issues and potential social investment opportunities.
Human Rights 
Building trusted partnerships and treating people with dignity and respect are part of our company’s culture. Although it is the duty of governments to protect human rights, companies like ours must act with care and respect for COMMUNITY AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE
In 2014 Hess Ghana undertook seismic survey 
and drilling operations in its offshore Deep Water Tano/Cape Three Points license area.  The seismic survey, lasting almost four months, collected data over a seabed area of 1,800 square kilometers and was followed later in the year by the drilling of three appraisal wells. As part of the project development, Hess identified coastal fishing communities as an important stakeholder group due to the potential for interaction offshore between fishing canoes and company vessels. Hess reached out and consulted with the fishermen, traditional 
leaders, and the six District Assemblies closest to the license area.  
At the community level, a key to success was to 
work through the chief fishermen, who commanded respect in each community and facilitated discussion in small groups. Engagement with the fishermen gave Hess a good understanding of the issues and challenges that the fishing community faces, and by developing good relationships it permitted early and easy resolution of 
problems. 
A good example was the resolution of an 
incident in which a fisherman’s nets were damaged by a seismic survey vessel. A swift investigation, with help from the chief fisherman, the Fishermen’s Association and the Fisheries Commission, allowed Hess to replace the damaged equipment in a timely and equitable manner.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT: MANAGING BUSINESS RISKS IN GHANA
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   20 7/1/15   3:41 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   22 7/1/15   4:35 PM21the human rights of all citizens wherever 
we operate. Our strategy is to prevent human rights related incidents by engaging with stakeholders, including communities, to proactively address potential issues. The complex environments in which we operate present an opportunity to make positive and lasting contributions in the areas of governance, transparency, respect for rule of law, and social and economic development.
We have been working to more firmly 
align our business practices with our CSR Policy, Human Rights Policy and Security and Human Rights Policy. For example, before we begin exploration activities in a new country, we analyze human rights issues with the understanding that these are clear business risks that must be assessed and managed. This analysis is integrated into the new country entry process to help inform our strategy and approach. 
In 2014 we continued to implement our 
Security and Human Rights Toolkit. We conducted one workshop in December 2013 and a second workshop in October 2014, targeted toward our Algeria asset leadership team. We also developed a self-assessment questionnaire to support asset implementation of the Toolkit. We are continuing to expand use of the Toolkit on an ongoing basis with the goal of having workshops at every asset. 
We also educate our employees on the 
importance of respecting human rights. We have developed an online training module and documentation for all employees that explains human rights and why they are important to our business. The course reviews our Human Rights Policy, offers employees 
guidance on integrating respect for human rights into their daily work and provides direction on how to report suspected human rights issues. All employees will be expected to take this course once it launches. In addition, human rights content is included in our mandatory Code of Conduct training, which all employees completed  in 2014.
COMMUNITY BENEFITS AND 
CAPACITY BUILDING 
For Hess, CSR is more than 
philanthropy and what we do with our profits; it is about how we operate. Our programs have evolved over time to incorporate a broader understanding of what it means to invest in a community. Philanthropy is an element for developing communities and maintaining a social license to operate, yet it is not sufficient in and of itself. To make a contribution to sustainable development, companies must excel in areas beyond charitable giving, such as local sourcing, capacity building and workforce development, while also minimizing the social and environmental impacts from operations.
Our strategic social investments are 
designed to create shared value that improves the quality of life in local communities and helps create a favorable environment for our operations. We focus in particular on education and heath, contributing to education improvement and work skill development, which are fundamental to sustainable economic growth. We also seek to identify opportunities in the supply chain to provide lasting economic benefit through local job creation.2014 Social Investment Spending 
by Country 
($ Thousands)
Education $33,752
Community $5,367In-Kind $1,799Disaster Relief $664Health $576Environment $95Other $86Arts & Culture $61
Note: These charts include all social investments 
in 2014, including those associated with joint venture operations.2%<1%
80%13%4%<1%
<1%1%75%
19%3%
U.S. $31,881
Equatorial Guinea $8,059Kurdistan Region of Iraq $1,134All Others* $1,326
* Includes Algeria, Australia, Denmark, France,  
Ghana, Libya, Malaysia, St. Lucia, U.K.
2014 Type of Investment  
($ Thousands)2014 Corporate Sustainability Report
%%%%4
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   21 7/1/15   3:41 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   23 7/1/15   4:35 PM22COMMUNITY AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE
We have several different types of social 
investment programs; in general, these include corporate-led, multi-year and multi-million-dollar flagship programs as well as asset-based projects with moderate funding levels. In 2014 our social investments totaled $42.4 million, with $33.8 million going toward education projects. Another $6.6 million was earmarked for economic development, health and capacity building. 
Flagship Investments in 
Education 
We currently have two flagship projects 
that are focused on helping to develop secondary education systems and capacity.
PRODEGE II  
Building on Hess’ PRODEGE project to 
develop the primary education system in Equatorial Guinea, PRODEGE II carries the theme of quality education to the junior secondary population. The program, funded at $50 million over five years, has three broad goals:
•  Support the Ministry of Education in 
its efforts to consolidate the successful outcomes of Phase 1 and replicate them across all primary schools nationwide and to strengthen preschool education ($11.4 million)
•  Strengthen junior secondary 
education through intensive teacher training and by introducing an active learning methodology that prepares students for both higher education and the workplace. Activities will target students enrolled in school as well as young people who have left school ($33.1 million)
•  Build the capacity of the Ministry of 
Education to better manage and sustain a system of quality education    
($5 million)
We are receiving implementation 
assistance from FHI 360, a non-profit human development organization whose role is fiduciary as well as program design, technical assistance in country, monitoring and evaluation. The program started in late 2014 and was able to accomplish several key objectives. At the end of 2014, FHI 360 teamed up with the Ministry of Education to distribute a complete suite of instructional materials to 860 primary schools across the country, benefiting some 33,000 students. FHI 360 also trained the PRODEGE team within the Ministry of Education to train teachers on how to incorporate the materials into classroom instruction.
Succeed 2020
Succeed 2020 is a five-year, $25 million program to assist students in North Dakota as they prepare for college, careers and the workplace. The program has been carefully planned and implemented as a partnership with the state of North Dakota and FHI 360. It supports college and career counseling for students, professional development for teachers, tutoring and online learning. Nominated by the Greater North Dakota Chamber of Commerce, Hess was recognized by North Dakota’s State Superintendent of Public Instruction with the 2014 ACT College and Career Readiness Award for this effort . During the 2013/2014 school year, 
more than 2,500 students from 66 school districts participated in eight college and career fairs, and more than 3,000 students participated in science, technology, engineering and math activities. Thousands of students participated in Roads to Success 
lessons; this curriculum is designed to integrate college and career planning into classroom lessons. In addition, more than 200 teachers, 300 administrators and 150 counselors and advisors received professional development, support and guidance.
Local Programs 
At the local level, Hess assets and Houston headquarters have focused their social investments in the areas of education and community development.
University of North Dakota 
Petroleum Engineering Program
In 2010 the University of North Dakota 
(UND) launched a $65 million capital campaign to expand the Petroleum Engineering Program, the only program of its type in the state. The program, started in 2010 with four students, increased enrollment to 200 by 2013. While Hess has supported various programs at the university over the years, we committed $5 million in 2014 for infrastructure and other needs to support the school’s rapid growth. This level of funding complements our existing engagements with academic institutions around recruiting and research, enhances our ability to hire engineers locally, and assists UND in building institutional capacity that can help the school secure accreditation.
Belmont College
Beginning with the 2013/2014 school year, Hess has partnered with Belmont College in Ohio and its foundation to award scholarship funding to incoming and current students enrolled full or part time in an associate degree or certificate program. The purpose is to provide funding to help students gain the highly technical skills necessary to do well in 
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   22 7/1/15   3:41 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   24 7/1/15   4:35 PM23the local economy, where increased oil 
and gas activity is resulting in an economic revival. Scholarship recipients are selected by the Belmont College Scholarship Committee, in cooperation with the Office of Student Financial Aid. Special considerations are made to non-traditional students who are displaced workers returning to college in order to further their education and regain employment. Key performance metrics for the Hess Corporation Scholarship program include scholarship recipient demographics, completion rates, and job placement data (when available), as well as data on the overall status of the energy programs at Belmont College.
LEAP  
In 2014, LEAP (Learn. Engage. Advance. 
Persevere.) completed the first year of a three-year pilot dropout prevention program for at-risk middle school students at two Houston, Texas, inner-city schools. Five program partners, including Hess, work collaboratively to provide support to students who are English language learners and over age 
for their grade level. The first year went well, with partners integrating their programs at the two schools and students leveraging opportunities available to them. 
Art and design were added to the  
second year of the program as part of a movement by school districts nationwide to augment the traditional primary through secondary school science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) education. This addition helps students understand STEM elements through customized applications and more natural ways of learning.
LISC  
Founded in 1979, LISC (Local Initiatives 
Support Corporation) is the largest community development support organization in the United States.      LISC helps to sustainably transform distressed communities through local resident led community development organizations. It supports the development of local leaders and the creation of affordable housing, facilities, 
local businesses and jobs. Through Hess support, LISC’s Houston program was able to expand their team to conduct financial and employment workshops in addition to launching their Occupational Skills Initiative program to strengthen math and literacy skills for job training programs in health care. 
LISC also conducted “Leading Together” 
leadership workshops to educate community leaders on organizing fundamentals, neighborhood affordability and preservation, economic development and systematizing city advocacy.
Tioga Fireﬁghter Training
Volunteer firefighters in Tioga, North Dakota, benefited from extensive training in 2014 thanks to a $22,000 Bakken Hess Force grant. Six volunteer firemen attended the Texas A&M firefighting school in College Station, Texas, in early 2014. The training courses are similar to real-life situations the firemen would encounter in both the community and in  the field.
First Responder Training, Tioga Firehouse, North Dakota
First Responder Training, Tioga Firehouse, North Dakota2014 Corporate Sustainability Report
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   23 7/1/15   3:41 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   25 7/1/15   4:35 PMTubular Bells Platform, Gulf of MexicoSAFETY AND HEALTH
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   24 7/1/15   3:41 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   26 7/1/15   4:35 PM25Safety is a top priority at Hess. Our 
ultimate goal is zero incidents, and as we work toward that goal we strive for continuous improvement in key safety metrics. Commitment to and accountability for personal and process safety begins at the highest levels of our company, as performance against our metrics is a component of our bonus formula for executives as well as all employees.PERSONAL SAFETY 
We continued to make significant strides in our safety performance in 2014. The Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) for our full workforce (i.e., employees and contractors together) was 0.40,  a 23 percent improvement from 2013.  Our full workforce Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) was 0.12, a 14 percent improvement from 2013.
Our contractor TRIR dropped 25 percent 
in 2014 compared to 2013, while our employee TRIR was flat year-to-year. We experienced no employee or contractor fatalities in 2014.
PROCESS SAFETY 
Our focus on process safety is to prevent unintentional releases that could result in a major incident such as a fire, explosion or toxic exposure.
To manage process safety effectively at 
Hess, we focus on: •  Design integrity – reducing risks to as 
low as reasonably possible in the design and construction of facilities
•  Technical integrity – inspecting, testing 
and maintaining our hardware
•  Operational integrity – working within 
operational design parameters
•  Process safety leadership – minimizing 
the likelihood of process safety events through the effective management of  process safety risks by our leaders across the organization2014 KEY DEVELOPMENTS
>  Achieved a 23 percent 
improvement in  workforce (employees plus contractors) Total Recordable Incident Rate and a 14 percent improvement in  workforce Lost Time Incident Rate compared to 2013>  Closed all action items 
identified in our 2013 process safety health checks by the targeted deadline>  Successfully conducted 
a simulation of a major offshore loss of containment incident  in the Gulf of Mexico – our most complex emergency drill ever2015 GOALS
>  Meet a workforce  
Total Recordable Incident Rate target  of 0.33 or below>  Meet a High Potential 
(HiPo) incident rate of  0.32 or below>  Achieve 95 percent 
implementation of safety observations
1 Hess corporate and upstream workforce data,  
 which includes employees plus contractors    together. 
2 When calculating LTIR, calendar work days are  
 used. A Lost Time Incident involves one or more   days away from work, excluding the day of the   incident. We include occupational illness and   occupation-related disease for current    employees in our companywide safety totals.Full Workforce Safety Performance1,2
2012
20122013
2013 2014Cases per 200,000 Hours
Cases per 200,000 Hours
 Employee TRIR
 Contractor TRIR0.62
0.54
0.39
0.15 0.14
0.11
0.130.24
0.140.73
0.60
0.43Our Hess Rules for employees and 
contractors provide guidance for controlling seven activities (such as lifting and hoisting and working at heights) that are at high risk for fatalities. We also focus on activities such as dropped objects and equipment failure, and we are implementing programs and practices aimed at preventing such incidents. In late 2014 we put a particular focus on preventing dropped objects, in part because of a perceived upward trend pertaining to these types of incidents, including a major incident involving a contractor. 
To more effectively prevent such injuries 
from dropped objects, Hess senior management conducted visits in early 2015 with our drilling contractors to discuss and assess their systems for preventing dropped objects. We have also worked with our contractors on their mitigation programs, worked with site personnel so that they understand and react appropriately to hazards, and have conducted routine inspections. 
We regularly review our contractors’ health 
and safety systems so that they align  with ours
.2012 2013 20140.140.71
0.200.60
0.200.452012 2013 20140.60
0.170.52
0.140.40
0.12
 Workforce TRIR 
 Workforce LTIRPREVENTING DROPPED 
OBJECT INCIDENTS
Employee and Contractor  Safety Performance
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   25 7/1/15   3:41 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   27 7/1/15   4:35 PM26Our process safety program has three 
strategic elements: enhancing process safety leadership; understanding and identifying process safety vulnerabilities; and educating key people across the organization in process safety awareness. 
In 2014 we significantly strengthened our 
process safety systems enterprise wide. First, we worked to address the approximately 400 action items identified in our 2013 process safety “health checks.” A health check is an internal, high-level assessment of the process safety at our various production assets and drilling operations around the world. The on-time completion of the action items was incorporated as a metric in our annual incentive plan formula for Hess employees. At year end 2014, 65 percent of the action items had been addressed, and they all had been closed by the deadline date. All health check action items are on target for closure by year end 2017. 
Second, we convened a two-day, 
multi-functional process safety alignment meeting to discuss process safety in depth. The meeting brought together 40 people from various Hess business units and backgrounds with the goals of ensuring that process safety was being addressed consistently across the enterprise, clarifying roles and responsibilities, and identifying opportunities for improvement. The gathering represented a step change in our level of alignment, coordination and communication regarding process safety management. 
Third, we developed three standards 
that relate to process safety:
•  Enterprise Management of Change 
(MOC) – We have various functional     and regional MOC procedures; this 
standard sets minimum requirements that they must all meet. This will improve MOC implementation by aligning MOC expectations across the enterprise. 
•  Process Safety Information (PSI) – This 
defines the minimum requirements for documentation that must be maintained. It also requires that any changes to PSI must go through the enterprise MOC process.
•  Vehicle Entry – This defines 
requirements to reduce the likelihood of a vehicle engine becoming an ignition source of a release at our onshore production assets and drilling operations.
Also in 2014 we continued to conduct 
process safety awareness training, primarily among our drilling and completions employees and contractors. 
We have been collecting information on 
process safety key performance indicators (KPIs) per the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers’ (IOGP) Process Safety – Recommended 
Practice on Key Performance Indicators, Report No. 456, November 2011. This recommended practice identifies leading and lagging KPIs that can be used to strengthen risk controls and barriers in order to prevent major process safety incidents. 
In May 2012 we began tracking process 
safety events (PSEs), which are the result of a loss of primary containment of any material, including non-toxics and non-flammables. These are Tier 1 and Tier 2 lagging KPIs that can be reported  at an enterprise level in both internal and external reports.Tier 3 and 4 KPIs are primarily designed 
for monitoring and review of risk control systems/barriers at the facility, business and enterprise level. Because these indicators are specific to particular facilities or company systems, they are generally not suitable for company-to-company benchmarking or year-on-year corporate performance reporting. 
The chart below shows our process 
safety performance in 2013 and 2014, in terms of Tier 1 (greater consequence) and Tier 2 (lesser consequence) process safety events. 
Data for 2012 were not included 
because Hess and the industry were in the process of understanding the new IOGP data collection methodology and working to improve the quality of the data. Although year end 2014 data is higher than 2013, a closer look at the cases that comprise this data has not revealed a statistically valid trend.
The enterprise included on-time closure 
of environment, health and safety (EHS) audit and health check action items  as a Tier 4 KPI that was included in the 2014 bonus calculation for all Hess employees. The Global Drilling and Completions organization began tracking some specific drilling and completions Tier 3 and Tier 4 KPIs as well in 2014. 
SAFETY AND HEALTH
Note: Tier 1/Tier 2 criteria and PSE events are based 
on deﬁnitions from the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers, Process Safety–Recommended 
Practice on Key Performance Indicators , Report No. 
456, November 2011.2013 2014
Tier 1 PSEs 18 20
Tier 2 PSEs 48 49Process Safety Events
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   26 7/1/15   3:41 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   28 7/1/15   4:35 PM27EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS 
AND RESPONSE 
While we always aim to prevent 
incidents, we are also prepared to swiftly respond to any emergency that may arise – whatever its cause. 
Hess’ emergency preparedness and 
response procedures are designed to protect people from injury, the environment from spills and other incidents, our assets from damage and the company’s reputation from harm – in that order. Our Emergency Response Network is composed of incident response and mitigation personnel at the asset, regional and enterprise levels. 
In July 2014 we conducted our most 
complex emergency drill yet – the simulation of a major offshore loss of containment incident in the Gulf of Mexico. The day-long exercise involved all levels of our Emergency Response Network as well as multiple contractors. Going forward we hope to conduct an exercise of this magnitude once each year, in addition to our regular, smaller 
scale emergency exercises and drills. 
To complement our own capabilities, we 
partner with mutual aid and emergency response organizations at the local, regional and global levels. In 2014 we joined the Marine Preservation Association, which runs the Marine  Spill Response Corporation. This membership significantly enhances our oil spill response capabilities in the Gulf of Mexico. 
We belong to the Subsea Well 
Intervention Service, a program that provides well capping and dispersant equipment and oil spill dispersant that can be deployed internationally, and the Wild Well Control Capping System, for international deployment in the case of source control situations. We subscribe to Impact Weather, which provides detailed reports on potential weather threats. In addition, we partner with Oil Spill Response Limited, Marine Well Containment Company, the Subsea Well Response Project, the Oil Spill 
Prevention and Response Advisory Group and Clean Gulf Associates. 
We are also active members of the Oil 
Spill Response Joint Industry Project organized by IPIECA (the global oil  and gas industry association for environmental and social issues) and the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers. The project is developing Good Practice Guides on 24 key aspects of oil spill preparedness and response.
CONTRACTOR MANAGEMENT 
At Hess, contractors now comprise  over 80 percent of our workforce. As  this proportion has increased in recent years, we have significantly strengthened our contractor management processes.
As part of the procurement process, 
EHS reviews are conducted for those contractors that are considered higher risk, due either to the number of manhours they will work at Hess or the nature of that work, such as drilling and completions or offshore work. As one part of the EHS review, we use recognized industry safety prequalification software for most major areas of Hess operations. Elsewhere, we use in-house processes such as supplier questionnaires. In the United States, potential contractors receive a grade based on items such as insurance and safety record. If potential contractors receive a low grade, the asset director (or above) must endorse a safety action plan before the contractor may be approved. The procurement process will also typically include an on-location audit. New contractors take part in a four-step onboarding and engagement process.
Safety Drill, Gulf of Mexico2014 Corporate Sustainability Report
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   27 7/1/15   3:42 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   29 7/1/15   4:35 PM28HEALTH AND WELLNESS 
Hess’ health and wellness strategy  
encompasses several elements of health management:
• Health risk assessment and planning
•  Industrial hygiene and control of 
workplace exposures
• Medical emergency management•  Management of health in the 
workplace, fitness for task assessment and health surveillance
• Health impact assessment•  Health reporting and record 
management 
•  Public health interface and promotion  
of good healthIn early 2014 our Occupational Health 
team met with Hess EHS professionals from around the world to review these elements and introduce a Health Gap Assessment Tool. We began conducting health gap assessments in the second quarter, piloting the effort with the Gulf of Mexico EHS team, followed by Seminole (Texas) and China. Health gap assessments enable our sites to identify any gaps in their health and wellness initiatives and set short and medium term health management priorities. The initial assessments contained some common themes and, in particular, highlighted the need to focus further on industrial hygiene monitoring and practices. This observation was validated by internal audit team findings. In the second half of 2014 the 
Occupational Health team partnered with EHS colleagues in Ohio and North Dakota to conduct industrial hygiene surveillance on noise levels, benzene and silica dust exposure at hydraulic fracturing sites.
In addition, we deployed mobile medical 
surveillance of the Hess workforce at locations throughout North America in 2014. This effort helps to ensure that our workforce is fit for duty and that we are complying with internal requirements and government regulations. It includes hearing testing, respiratory fitness testing and occupational health related medical exams. We also conduct random drug and alcohol surveillance of the workforce, with emphasis on our field locations, to further ensure health and safety at our operations.SAFETY AND HEALTH
DECOMMISSIONING
Hess has delivered exceptional safety 
performance during its decommissioning of wells in the Fife, Fergus, Flora and Angus fields in  the North Sea, off the U.K. coast. The project involved taking the offshore oil rigs out of service, removing all facilities and subsea structures and permanently closing off the wells. This complex, seven-year process – which has required 6.5 million manhours to date – has achieved a Total Recordable Incident Rate of  just 0.13 with only four Lost Time Incidents. WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT 
In November 2014 Hess partnered with Belmont 
College in Ohio to sponsor and facilitate a one-day oilfield emergency response training for 250 local firefighters and emergency medical technicians. The training – which included 21 sessions from which attendees could choose – educated first responders on how to handle the unique challenges that may arise at a shale oil asset. These skills are increasingly important as oil and gas exploration and production in the Utica Shale continue to grow.HEALTH EMERGENCY 
PLANNING 
In 2014 we worked with our assets in Ghana and 
Equatorial Guinea to develop plans and guidance to address the Ebola epidemic, should the need arise. Fortunately, no Ebola cases were ultimately reported in these countries. These guidance documents were part of a larger update to our corporate pandemic planning program. Our pandemic plans help us to maintain business continuity by setting triggers and action steps in the case of epidemics such as Ebola or, more commonly, influenza.
LOCAL EFFORTS
APPLNAA R D O N R EDEV ENT HEL Y W A G O C C
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   28 7/1/15   3:42 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   30 7/1/15   4:35 PM29Deepwater operations can present personal and 
process safety risks greater than those of land-based assets. While the drilling and production processes are in many ways similar, the wells tend to be much deeper and are under greater pressure. Accidental discharges can be more severe and harder to contain. Oil spill response is more complicated. And of course, the operations are conducted on self-contained, mobile offshore drilling units. 
At Hess, we have been managing these safety 
risks effectively. We currently have three deepwater assets (in more than 1,000 feet of water) in production: Baldpate and Tubular Bells in the Gulf of Mexico, and the Okume complex in Equatorial Guinea. Tubular Bells is our most recent; it commenced production in November 2014. Two other deepwater sites are in pre-production: a rig off the coast of Ghana has completed appraisal, and our Stampede project in the Gulf of Mexico has been sanctioned and should be in production by 2018. 
Like all oil and gas companies operating in U.S. 
waters, our deepwater operations in the Gulf of Mexico are subject to the U.S. federal government’s Safety and Environmental Management System (SEMS) regulations. The SEMS rules – which were first implemented in 2010 and then revised in 2011 – set forth a series of requirements operators must follow to help ensure workplace safety. In particular, SEMS mandates a systematic approach to identifying hazards and then managing or mitigating them effectively. It puts a strong emphasis on emergency preparedness and response, with mandatory weekly drills. We implement the SEMS requirements through our own EHS management system. 
Although our asset in Equatorial Guinea is not 
technically subject to SEMS, we manage safety at that location to the same high standards as in the Gulf of Mexico, using the Hess EHS management system. 
SAFETY AT OUR DEEPWATER ASSETS
Tubular Bells, Gulf of Mexico2014 Corporate Sustainability Report
,
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   29 7/1/15   3:42 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   31 7/1/15   4:35 PMNorth Malay Basin Production Facility, MalaysiaOUR PEOPLE
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   30 7/1/15   3:42 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   32 7/1/15   4:35 PM31Our success relies on a company 
culture and high quality workforce that innovates, leads and learns. The past several years have been a time of significant change at Hess as we transformed into a focused oil and gas exploration and production (E&P) enterprise and exited our downstream businesses. We also transitioned from a functional  to an asset-based organizational structure and divested several E&P assets.
In 2014 we renewed our focus on key 
human resources programs, including talent management, learning and development, diversity and inclusion and employee engagement, integrating these processes with our adoption of lean principles and tools as described earlier in the How We Operate section of  this report. 
EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS 
We began 2014 with about 12,100 employees and ended the year with approximately 3,045 employees. Divestitures of downstream businesses and the consolidation of operations drove this 75 percent reduction in employee headcount during the year. The sale of Hess Retail Marketing accounted for the majority of the decrease. Reductions in headcount among corporate and E&P personnel, primarily from the sale of the company’s Indonesia and Thailand businesses and the closure of our London office, resulted in approximately 425 fewer employees during 2014.By year end 2014, slightly less than half 
of employees were located in Houston, Texas, and 21 percent of employees were in international locations. 
EMPLOYEES IN TRANSITION   
In light of the significant headcount reductions, the company developed and implemented an enhanced severance program to ensure that the transition was as smooth as possible for both the company and affected employees as they reentered the job market.
Hess’ Human Resources (HR) function 
coordinated outreach to both individual employees and groups about their potential severance packages and the impact of the transition on their benefits going forward. This included individual meetings with each affected employee, group meetings with senior leadership and HR, ongoing updates via emails, and the creation of an internal Global Transition webpage, which housed relevant severance and benefit information. In addition, the company provided robust outplacement services to support employees with their resume preparation, interview skills and job search strategies as they launched their new job searches.
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION 
Hess is committed to diversity and equal employment opportunities for all employees and job candidates regardless of race, color, gender, age, sexual orientation, creed, national origin, genetic information, disability, veteran  
status, or any other protected status in recruitment, hiring, compensation, promotion, training, assignment of work, performance evaluation and all other aspects of employment. We also consider more than 30 attributes of diversity, including elements such as cultural and physical differences, lifestyle, and diversity of background, experience and perspective.2014 KEY DEVELOPMENTS
>  Continued to 
implement programs  to ease the transition for employees affected by our corporate reorganization in 2013>  Held leadership 
workshops for different levels of leadership within the organization, from early career supervisors through senior management>  Introduced a new 
career and performance management system  2015 GOALS
>  Progress initiatives in 
key programs, including employee engagement, onboarding, talent management, diversity 
and inclusion, process efficiency, reliability and data integrity
2014 Employees by Region
United States 2,392 79%
Asia-Paciﬁc 239 8%
Africa 222 7%
Europe 192 6%Africa Americas Asia-Paciﬁc Europe131
290 284882
1,189
Male Turnover
Male New HiresFemale Turnover
Female New Hires2014 Turnover and New Hires
Number of Employees
2
122
1118
2029
49 4
1784
284131
290882
1189
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   31 7/1/15   3:42 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   33 7/1/15   4:35 PM32We do not tolerate any form of 
workplace harassment, including sexual  harassment. We reinforce these expectations through our Code of Conduct, our Equal Employment Opportunity and Affirmative Action policies and training (for U.S.-based managers), other Human Resources policies (including the addition of domestic partners in health and welfare benefits coverage in 2014), and our Human Rights and Corporate Social Responsibility Policies.
In 2014 Hess continued its diversity 
outreach efforts with organizations that advocate for minorities, women, veterans and the disabled, including  Equal Opportunity Publications, the National Business and Disabilities Council, the National Association of Black Accountants, the National Society of Black Engineers, the National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering, the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers Foundation, the Women’s Energy Network, the Society of Women Engineers, the Association on Higher Education and Disability and the 100,000 Jobs Mission. We continue to support additional membership-based organizations providing a diversity of expression and thought.
Our proportion of women and U.S. 
minority employees as defined by the U.S. Department of Labor decreased from 2013. However, the proportion of female new hires year-over-year increased significantly, from 23 percent to 32 percent of all new hires, and the proportion of U.S. minority new hires increased as well, from 23 percent to  30 percent. In keeping with our aim to foster 
diversity and cultivate leadership, we employ a high number of local nationals in our international operations and report publicly where the number is 100 or more. The percentage of local nationals as well as the proportion of nationals holding managerial or professional positions, increased in Equatorial Guinea and Malaysia compared to 2013.   
TALENT MANAGEMENT 
Hess has used a comprehensive annual talent management process for several years to help us understand and assess our leadership and technical capabilities and develop succession and hiring plans. In 2014 we leveraged our global talent management process to assess talent and build succession plans in the new asset-based organizational structure.  
CareerManager, the performance 
management system we launched globally in 2013, provides an integrated platform for Individual Development Plans (IDPs), goal setting and performance evaluations. We utilized the new system in 2014 to encourage every employee to prepare an IDP, which is used to document actions and activities to develop career plans and individual skills. Also in 2014, as a follow-on to previous work on the company’s Annual Incentive Plan, a cross functional committee convened to review the effectiveness of our current performance management system. The committee’s recommendations included a change to the performance management calendar to ensure performance objectives are documented in CareerManager earlier in the year. The  
concept of cascading objectives was also introduced to ensure the alignment 
of employee effort top-to-bottom in the organization. The committee continues to meet to discuss additional opportunities for improving this system.
Learning and Development 
Hess offers leadership development through a suite of three programs. Each is tailored to meet the competency development needs of different levels of leadership within the organization, from early career supervisors through senior leadership.
During 2014 we conducted sessions of all 
three programs globally, reaching approximately 200 leaders within the United States, Europe, Africa and Malaysia.
Training in leadership continues to be 
offered to all employees through our Learning Center, which provides access to more than 1,000 virtual and instructor led courses on many topics, ranging from technical to soft skills.
Key disciplines, such as Exploration, 
Developments, and Drilling and Completions, have formed internal communities of practice and sponsor lunch and learns on technical topics to support ongoing professional development. Employees also have ongoing opportunities for professional development through external engagements that include trade associations, conferences and external courses.
New Hires and Early Career 
Programs 
Hess has developed and implemented 
programs to accelerate the integration of new employees. A key focus of these programs is the development and OUR PEOPLE
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   32 7/1/15   3:42 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   34 7/1/15   4:35 PM332014  National Employees
CountryNational Employees  
(percent of employees)National Managers/
Professionals  
(percent of managers and 
professionals)
Denmark 87% 78%
Equatorial Guinea 77% 46%Malaysia 74% 72%2014 Corporate Sustainability Report
integration of early career technical 
hires as skilled older workers choose to retire. Employees new to Hess benefit  from our onboarding and orientation program known as Passport to Hess. The onboarding program facilitates close interaction between supervisors and new employees for the first 90 days at Hess, to ensure a smooth assimilation into the company.
Following our reorganization in 2013, we 
updated the Passport to Hess program to reflect our new portfolio and organizational structure. The program now has an increased emphasis on our vision, values and culture. We have also increased leadership visibility for new hires through a Leadership Dialogues program hosted by CEO John Hess and COO Greg Hill.The Hess Global Foundation Program 
prepares early career engineers and geoscientists for challenging assignments through accelerated training, mentorship and on-the-job  assignments. Our Global Supply Chain function also offers enriched development opportunities for early career professionals.
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 
Hess utilizes various mechanisms to engage employees, in order to be more transparent about our business performance and processes and receiving employee input. These mechanisms range from one-on-one discussions to small focus groups to global town hall meetings. They also include feedback surveys and communications infrastructure that enable the company to share 
information and connect with employees in a timely and meaningful way.
In 2014 Hess’ chief executive officer  
and chief operating officer launched  the Leadership Dialogues program, a series of small group employee engagement sessions. More than 40 sessions were conducted in 2014, with separate sessions for new hires and existing employees. The sessions with new hires provided early exposure to senior leadership in a discussion of the company’s culture, goals and history.  The session for existing employees provided an opportunity to discuss organizational and business issues directly with senior leadership. Themes from the sessions were discussed and turned into actions by the Executive Committee. Additional sessions may be conducted in 2015.    
A new annual incentive plan (AIP) was 
introduced in 2014. The AIP is an enterprise-first approach that rewards achievement and actions that drive the performance of the enterprise ahead of business unit, function, asset and work team. To ensure understanding and  improve the overall transparency of our pay programs, more than 40 interactive information sessions were held around the world by senior members of the AIP design team.  
As part of our social responsibility value, 
Hess employees at various locations have formed committees that choose and support local efforts in areas such as education, social services, youth sports and other endeavors. Support may include volunteering of time, small-scale funding and fundraising and in-kind donations.   
2014 Women and Minority Representation
Women  
(U.S. and International)Minorities  
(U.S.)
Job CategoryTotal 
Employees 
in Job 
CategoryNumber  
of 
WomenPercent  
WomenTotal 
Employees 
in Job 
CategoryNumber 
of 
MinoritiesPercent 
Minorities
Executives  
and Senior Ofﬁcers 64 9 14% 57 4 7%
First and Mid-Level Managers833 165 20% 659 100 15%
Professionals 1,424 475 33% 1,102 324 29%
Other 724 216 30% 554 150 27%
Total 3,045 865 28% 2,372 578 24%
Note: There are 247 U.S. employees who are both minority and female.
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   33 7/1/15   3:42 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   35 7/1/15   4:35 PMCLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY
Tioga Gas Plant, North Dakota
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   34 7/1/15   3:43 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   36 7/1/15   4:35 PM352014 KEY DEVELOPMENTS
>  Initiated a project to   
refresh our climate  and energy strategy  to align with our transition to an exploration and production (E&P)company >  Reduced absolute 
greenhouse gas emissions (equity basis) by more than  4 million tonnes  between 2008 and 2014  >  Completed 
expansion of our Tioga Gas Plant, which significantly increased our  gas processing capacity2015 GOALS
>  Complete our strategy 
refresh project 
>  Enhance discussion  
of carbon asset risk and methane leakage in this year’s sustainability report   >  Continue to expand 
North Dakota  gas gathering infrastructure in 2015 and 2016
 
   >  Reassess our Scope 3 
emissions inventory and material Scope 3 categories for reporting
There is no easy solution to meeting the 
long term global demand for energy while attempting to reduce our carbon footprint. According to an International Energy Agency forecast, energy demand is expected to increase 37 percent by 2040. The United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change recently confirmed that the risks of climate change increase with increasing temperature. Hess acknowledges that rising greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and global temperatures pose risks to society and ecosystems that clearly warrant cost-effective policy responses that balance mitigation, adaptation and societal priorities. For years, Hess has viewed climate 
change as a global challenge that will require cooperation between a significant majority of world leaders and industry to develop comprehensive energy and climate solutions.  
Hess is an active member of IPIECA, an 
international oil and gas industry association engaged in sustainable development issues such as climate change, biodiversity impacts and access to energy – issues that are too complex  for individual companies to tackle alone. IPIECA represents its members at the United Nations’ Conference of Parties meetings, engaging with governments  on climate related issues.Hess is committed to help meet the 
world’s growing energy needs in an environmentally responsible manner by taking steps to monitor, measure and reduce our carbon footprint. We continue to meet our goal of top quartile performance in our sector for the quality of our climate change disclosures. For the sixth consecutive year, Hess was included in the CDP S&P 500 Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index, and for the fifth consecutive year was also listed in the 2014 Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) North America. Our CDP responses contain more detailed information on the company’s climate change related risks and opportunities.
Strategic Objective Status 2014 Status Update
Reduce ﬂaring rate at the wellhead in North Dakota to 10 percent 
by 2020 (North Dakota Industrial Commission regulatory  
requirement). 2014 North Dakota wellhead ﬂaring increased to 28 percent; 
however, f ollowing completion of the Tioga Gas Plant  
expansion project (April–December 2014), wellhead ﬂaring 
averaged 21 percent. 
Account for the cost of carbon in all signiﬁcant future investment 
decisions.During our strategy refresh, we will revisit the current cost of 
carbon being incorporated into the project planning process as a sensitivity analysis for major new investments.
Evaluate industry best practices to minimize emissions when 
designing production facilities.We incorporate energy efﬁciency considerations into the 
project planning process for major new investments.
Implement select energy efﬁciency projects at an asset level.We collect and track monthly energy usage and spend data 
at the asset level. Select assets have initiated energy efﬁcien -
cy projects.
Purchase at least 10 percent of annual electricity for company 
operations from renewable sources.In 2014 we purchased 125,000 renewable energy certiﬁcates, 
equivalent to 14 percent of our E&P net electricity usage.
Purchase carbon credits to offset greenhouse gas emissions from 
employee business travel on commercial aircraft and by rail.In 2014 we purchased 25,000 carbon credits, offsetting more 
than 125 percent of the 19,800 tonnes of GHG emissions  
associated with 83 million miles of air and rail travel by  company employees.
Meet top quartile performance in our sector for the quality of our 
environment, social and governance disclosures.In 2014 Hess was included in the CDP Leadership Index  
for climate change disclosures and listed in the DJSI North 
America Index.
     Completed          On target         Behind scheduleSee our CDP Climate Change response at  
hess.com/s/cdpclimatechange  
Interim Strategy and Progress
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   35 7/1/15   3:43 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   37 7/1/15   4:35 PM36CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY
The purpose of this section is to discuss the 
potential impact that future climate change regulation may have on Hess’ financial market valuation. Hess manages climate change risks, along with many other business risks, through our enterprise risk management (ERM) process. All projects are rigorously screened to ensure that they meet or exceed established threshold return on investment criteria to balance risk and return and meet Hess’ capital discipline philosophy. We factor theoretical shadow carbon dioxide (CO
2) prices into our economic evaluation 
process for significant new projects. This enables us to evaluate project viability in the event of future carbon constraints. 
As evidenced by recent reports, oil and gas 
companies will continue to play a significant role in providing an affordable and reliable source of energy to help advance modern living standards, economic growth and societal expectations.   
Meeting the long term growing global demand  
for energy will require the use of all forms of energy. The International Energy Agency’s (IEA) New Policy scenario (base case) estimates that in 2040, global energy demand will be 37 percent higher than today with demand in emerging market countries expected to increase steadily. In this scenario, the IEA anticipates 74 percent of 2040 energy demand to be met by fossil fuels, down from 82 percent today. In 2040, coal, oil, natural gas and renewables each account for approximately 25 percent of energy supply. Even in the IEA’s 450 Scenario, which is consistent with holding the long term global temperature increase to 2 degrees Celsius (2
o C), 
energy demand would increase by 17 percent in 2040, with fossil fuels accounting for approximately 60 percent of energy supply. Over the past several years, the “stranded asset 
concept” has received considerable attention. This movement suggests that endowments, foundations and pension funds reevaluate investments in fossil fuel companies. This concept downplays the growing demand for fossil fuel resources in emerging markets, the categorization and timing of reserve development and how these reserves contribute to the market capitalization of a company, as well as the differing carbon intensities of coal, oil and gas. Proponents of this concept cite the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report, which states that the world will need to keep to a trillion tonne budget of carbon emissions, from the beginning of the industrial era to the year 2100, to maintain a greater than 50 percent chance of limiting the maximum global atmospheric temperature rise to 2
o C. This would result in keeping two-thirds of 
recoverable fossil fuel resources trapped in the ground. 
This concept assumes that governments will 
unite now to enact climate change policies that will be implemented by 2020 in line with the 2
o C 
goal. This would require an abrupt and unlikely change in the global energy system, due to technical, economic and political factors. We expect climate policy and technological advances to develop at a more moderate pace and stringency.  
Given the IEA projection that fossil fuel demand 
is expected to remain robust in the foreseeable future, looking at reserves and how they contribute to the market capitalization of an oil and gas company is instructive. The stranded asset proponents assume a very broad definition of proved reserves and, therefore, misstate how fossil fuel reserves are valued and how they contribute to the market capitalization of an oil and gas company. According to IHS Energy’s Sept. 2014 report Deflating the Carbon 
Bubble , the intrinsic value of an oil and gas 
company is based primarily on its proved reserves, 90 percent of which are expected to be CARBON ASSET RISK REPORT
North Dakota Production Operations
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   36 7/1/15   3:43 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   38 7/1/15   4:35 PM37monetized over the next 10 to 15 years. The 
Securities and Exchange Commission defines “proved reserves” as those quantities of oil and gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible – from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations. 
Stranded asset advocates use a much broader 
definition of “reserves” that includes those reserves with uncertain potential for development and commercialization. They argue that extractive companies will be left with stranded assets and reserves over the next 30–40 years, thus undercutting current valuations. Using this broad definition of a company’s reserves inflates the perception of a company’s near-term carbon asset risk. According to IHS Energy, while proved reserves on average account for only 24 percent of the resource base by volume, they account for 81 percent of the resource base that drives a company’s total valuation. Reserves that are expected to be produced beyond a 15 year time horizon have limited impact on a company’s valuation due to discounted cash flows. 
The stranded asset concept also assumes that 
coal, oil and gas are equally vulnerable to climate policies restricting fossil fuels, without considering the differences in carbon intensities. Coal is the most carbon intensive fossil fuel, with a significantly larger carbon footprint than natural gas. Combined cycle natural gas turbines generate around half the greenhouse gas emissions of coal-fired power plants, on a life cycle basis. Coal is used primarily for power generation, for which there are alternative energy sources: renewables, nuclear and hydroelectric, which have minimal GHG emissions impacts. As a result, coal is the most likely fossil fuel to experience demand degradation in a carbon constrained economy.   
Natural gas, the least carbon intensive fossil 
fuel, will benefit from coal to gas switching as countries seek to reduce GHG emissions. Oil, which is used primarily as a transport fuel, has few cost-competitive substitutes. There is also limited indication of a significant change in the current transportation infrastructure that would lead to a transition away from oil to alternative transport fuels.Hess will continue to do its part to help provide 
reliable, affordable energy to meet growing  demand, while endeavoring to take actions to  reduce its carbon footprint through investments  in energy efficiency, flaring reductions, fuel switching and new and emerging technologies.
Conventional
UnconventionalDeepwaterAcid Gas2014 Hess Proved Reserves  
by Resource Type*
14%
36%39%11%
*  Deepwater and acid gas are conventional resources but they are shown separately here to 
provide more clarity on our reserve base. Deep water refers to reserves found below 1,000 
feet of water depth. Acid gas refers to conventional reserves with acid components that require additional treatment prior to sale.
51%2014 Hess Proved Reserves by Region*2014 Corporate Sustainability Report
* Proved reserves consist of 78 percent liquids (light and medium crude oils,  
condensate and natural gas liquids) and 22 percent natural gas.og e i 4e gon 0H * 1420 iee*s s eee
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   37 7/1/15   3:43 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   39 7/1/15   4:35 PM38CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY
GREENHOUSE GAS 
PERFORMANCE  
We report GHG emissions from our oil and gas assets on an operated and net equity basis. The majority of our direct (Scope 1) emissions are associated with fuel combustion and flaring. We report indirect emissions associated with purchased electricity (Scope 2) and other indirect (Scope 3) emissions.
Starting in 2014, Hess is using Global 
Warming Potentials (GWPs) based on the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report Values: Climate Change 2007 (AR-4). This is consistent with recent changes in U.S. regulatory programs and international acceptance of the AR-4 values. GHG data from prior years have not been restated because the impact on GHG emissions was not material (about 1 percent).
Operated Emissions 
(Scope 1 and 2)  
In 2014, of the 5.5 million tonnes of gross GHG emissions from our operated oil and gas assets, 4.8 million tonnes were Scope 1 emissions, primarily from flaring and fuel combustion, and slightly over 0.6 million tonnes were Scope 2 emissions (gross) from purchased electricity. The increase in emissions over 2013 was primarily related to one-time additional flaring during the shutdown and re-start of the Tioga Gas Plant during its expansion. Process operations (primarily fuel combustion), flaring and indirect emissions (purchased electricity) accounted for 31 percent, 54 percent and 12 percent of GHG emissions, respectively. 
Net Equity Emissions 
(Scope 1 and 2)  
Since 2007 Hess has also tracked GHG emissions from our operated and non-operated oil and gas assets based on our equity interest. Our major sources of emissions from 
non-operated oil and gas assets in 2014 included the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area (MTJDA) and SonaHess (Algeria) joint ventures. Total emissions from these assets accounted for approximately 1.8 million tonnes of our net equity emissions.
In 2014 major sources of emissions from 
operated assets included those from our Equatorial Guinea and North Dakota assets and the Seminole and Tioga Gas Processing Plants, which altogether accounted for 3.4 million tonnes of net equity emissions. All of our other operated and non-operated assets made up the balance of net equity emissions of 0.8 million tonnes. The primary reason for the 0.6 million tonne decrease in emissions year-over-year is related to asset sales.
Between 2008 (our baseline year) and 
2014, we have reduced net equity GHG emissions from oil and gas operations by 4.8 million tonnes of absolute emissions or over 40 percent, primarily through a combination of improved operating processes, selective asset sales and shutting down refinery operations. If our 2008 baseline were restated for all collective asset sales, our GHG emissions reduction between 2008 and 2014 would be 3.7 million tonnes instead of 4.8 million tonnes.
Scope 3 Emissions  
Our largest source of Scope 3 emissions is customer and consumer use of sold products. Our methodology for calculating product use emissions addresses the refined petroleum products that we sell, as well as the natural gas that we produce and sell for third party consumption. Due to downstream divestitures, use of sold  Flaring 2,959
Fuel Combustion 1,706Indirect 640Other 161
  2014 Operated Greenhouse Gas  
Emissions by Source (Scope 1 and Scope 2)
  Thousand Tonnes CO2e
54%12%
31%
Net Equity Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Million Tonnes CO2e
Hess E&P
Other Non-operated E&PHOVENSA JVMTJDA Block A-18Samara-NaftaSonaHess JVHess Marketing and Reﬁning/Other2008 024681012
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 201410.8
9.5
9.09.1
8.0
6.5
6.0Scope 1 Emissions
Scope 2 Emissions20120123456
2013 20140.76
4.97 4.40 4.830.64
0.75Million Tonnes CO2eOperated Greenhouse Gas Emissions3%
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   38 7/1/15   3:43 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   40 7/1/15   4:35 PM39products emissions have declined from 
47 million tonnes in 2008 to 11 million tonnes in 2014, or by about 77 percent.
In 2013 we evaluated the materiality and 
relevance of each of the 15 categories included in the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Standard. We joined the CDP Supplier Initiative for that year to improve our understanding of third party GHG emissions associated with purchased goods and services and transportation, and disclosed information on all 15 Scope 3 categories in our CDP Climate Change disclosure. As a result of this exercise, we eliminated nine categories that were not relevant.
In 2014 we recalculated emissions from 
six Scope 3 categories based on available data for the full calendar year for E&P and for the nine months that Hess operated the Retail Marketing business before divesting. These categories, in order of magnitude of emissions, were Use of Sold Products, Purchased Goods and Services (refined petroleum products for resale), Processing of Sold Products (natural gas), Waste, Fuel and Energy Related Services and Business Travel.
Hess has also been a participant in 
IPIECA’s Scope 3 Task Force, which has been developing sector-specific guidance. With the completion of our transformation to a pure play E&P company and the expected finalization of the IPIECA Scope 3 guidance by the end of 2015, we plan to revisit our evaluation of relevant and material Scope 3 categories based on our new company profile. 
We have purchased carbon credits 
annually since 2010 to offset at least 100 percent of business travel emissions. For the past three years we have  purchased these credits from The 
Climate Trust. In 2014, combined emissions from employee business travel via commercial air carrier and rail was about 19,800 tonnes. We offset 125 percent of these emissions through the purchase of 25,000 carbon credits.
EMISSIONS REDUCTION 
INITIATIVES  
We track and monitor changes in air emissions at each of our assets. We then examine opportunities at our largest emitting facilities, where it is technically and economically feasible within their operating rhythm to potentially reduce GHG emissions. 
Flaring  
In 2014 our gas flaring from operated assets increased to 36,000 million standard cubic feet (MMSCF), primarily due to temporary circumstances in Equatorial Guinea and North Dakota.
In Equatorial Guinea, gas produced that 
is not used for running our operations or being stored in the formation for future use is currently being flared. In the third quarter of 2013, we brought a new oil well online with an unusually high associated gas content, which resulted in increased flaring in 2014. However, with the maturation of this Ceiba oil field, flaring thus far in 2015 has been considerably lower.
Several years ago, our expansion by 
acquisitions in the Bakken formation included acreage in remote areas, where gas gathering infrastructure was not in place. This resulted in a significant increase in our flaring rates in North Dakota. To capture and monetize natural gas from our wells and minimize flaring, we are investing more than $1.5 billion in  infrastructure in North Dakota. In March 2014 we completed the expansion of the U.S. 2,412  
Malaysia 1,555
Equatorial Guinea 1,428
Algeria 240
Other countries* 149
Denmark 137
Thailand 68
*Other countries include China, Ghana, Libya, 
Norway, the U.K. and the U.S. Virgin Islands.2014 Net Equity Emissions by Country
Thousand Tonnes CO2e
*  Includes the following Scope 3 categories as set forth in the Green-
house Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Standard: Fuel-and-energy-related activities, waste generated in operations, employee business travel and processing of sold products.2014 Scope 3 Emissons 
Million Tonnes CO2e
Use of Sold Products 11.5
Purchased Goods and Services 2.9
Other* 0.5 100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
040%
26%
24%
4%
2%
2%
1%
North Dakota Flaring Rates 
at the Wellhead
HessPercent of Natural Gas Production
40%
35%
30%
25%
20%
15%
10%
5%
0%
Industry
Post-TGP Start-up
Flaring rates for conventional and unconventional wells. 
Source: North Dakota Industrial Commission, Department  
of Mineral Resources Oil and Gas Division. 2009    2010     2011    2012     2013    20142014 Corporate Sustainability Report
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   39 7/1/15   3:43 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   41 7/1/15   4:35 PM40Tioga Gas Plant, one of our major 
infrastructure projects. This expansion more than doubled the plant’s capacity from 100 million to 250 million standard cubic feet per day (MMSCFD) and increased the liquids processing capacity almost tenfold, from 260,000 to 2.5 million gallons per day.  
Hess has played a key role in the 
formation of the North Dakota Petroleum Council’s (NDPC) Flaring Task Force and the initial recommendations from the Task Force that helped shape North Dakota Industrial Commission (NDIC) Order #24665. NDIC Order #24665 mandates operators to capture 77 percent of produced gas in 2015, increasing to 85 percent in January 2016 and increasing again to 90 percent in October 2020. No further targets have been established. Expansion of our gas gathering infrastructure, including the addition of compression lines and low and high pressure gathering lines, was a top priority in 2014 and continues into 2015 and 2016. These infrastructure projects leave Hess well positioned to achieve each of North Dakota’s stated capture targets. With a regulation now in place and given current oil economics, we plan to meet this requirement in lieu of our 2017 projection. Through our involvement with the NDPC, Hess continues to be actively engaged in ongoing discussions around flaring concerns in North Dakota.
Flaring at the wellhead in North Dakota 
increased from 27 percent of associated gas production in 2013 to 28 percent in 2014, as a result of the shutdown of the Tioga Gas Plant to complete the expansion project. However, post shutdown, between April and December 2014, flaring at the wellhead averaged 21 percent. We are currently on target to meet the established capture rates of 77 percent in 2015 and 85 percent in 
January 2016.
Natural Gas Capture  
In addition to addressing our long term flaring, in the nearer term we are also mitigating flaring by exploring ways to capture gas at the wellhead for use in our drilling operations and for conversion to natural gas liquids.
Bi-Fuel Rigs and Boiler 
Conversions  
In 2013 we launched a bi-fuel installation project by retrofitting diesel engines to gas/diesel engines on seven of the 14 drilling rigs operating for Hess in the Bakken. This engine retrofit captures and uses natural gas at the wellhead, which reduces fuel costs from fewer diesel delivery truck trips and lowers air emissions from the cleaner burn of natural gas compared to diesel. As part of this project, nine boilers were also converted to operate exclusively on natural gas during winter operations. 
In 2014 this project saved 520,945 
gallons of diesel fuel and resulted in 65 fewer truck deliveries. Hess is also exploring ways to capture gas at the wellhead and convert it to compressed natural gas or liquefied natural gas, which would allow us to utilize it throughout our North Dakota operations. 
Natural Gas Liquids  
In 2013 we began a wellhead gas capturing project in North Dakota that uses a mobile system to recover high-BTU gas from locations that are flaring and produce natural gas liquids (NGL) and treated lower-BTU gas. This project provides dual economic and environmental benefits by converting gas  into marketable products, which reduces the amount of gas flared and the associated air emissions. The project began with two prototype units and soon expanded to include a 500 thousand 
cubic feet per day (MSCFD) built-for-purpose unit. When operating at full capacity, the 500 MSCFD unit is designed  to average four to five gallons of NGL per MSCF processed and result in emission reductions of 30 percent for nitrogen oxides and carbon monoxide, 64 percent for volatile organic compounds and 42 percent for carbon dioxide. The NGL capture units are deployed throughout the Hess Bakken acreage where field flaring is occurring. More than 3 million gallons of NGL were captured in 2014, resulting in more than 150 MMSCF of gas that was not flared. Wellhead gas capture was expanded in 2014 as we ordered 14 additional built-for-purpose units, and we will be at full contracted capacity of 10,000 MSCFD in the second quarter of 2015. For the last half of 2015 we anticipate 90 percent utilization, which will capture over a million gallons of NGLs per month, equivalent to a 3,000 tonne per month reduction in CO
2e.
Power Generation  
Power generation utilizing Bakken gas was also pursued in 2014 with the first working project in place in the first quarter of 2015. This pilot project involved replacing diesel power generation with gas and was implemented at a stranded site that is utilizing eight 170 kilowatt generators. As a result of the project, the site is now using 200 MSCF of gas to directly power all of its electrical needs. A review of all remote power generation is currently underway.
Transportation  
In 2013 in North Dakota we began using flexible hose for freshwater transport  instead of trucks. This type of hose collapses flat when not in use, like a fire hose, and can be used to pipe water  directly from the water source to our CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   40 7/1/15   3:44 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   42 7/1/15   4:35 PM41wells. The 600-foot sections of hose can 
be connected to lengths of several miles. We conducted our first pilot in September 2013 with four well pads and have now expanded its use to 20 percent of our wells. Use of these flat hoses eliminates the need for trucks to haul water, resulting in less noise and lower GHG emissions, transportation costs and risk of vehicle accidents. In 2014 our North Dakota frac team piped 43 percent of the water used for fracturing, exceeding its 25 percent target. Approximately 4.5 million barrels of water were piped, removing approximately 41,174 truckloads from the road. The frac team developed operating procedures for cold weather operations, and, with the cooperation of vendors, piping was successfully utilized throughout the cold weather months. 
ENERGY USE  
Energy management is an integral part  
of Hess’ lean approach because it  makes economic sense and reduces greenhouse gas emissions. 
Our operations make and purchase  
energy primarily for power, processing, heating and cooling. In 2014 energy consumption from Hess E&P operated assets was approximately 34 million gigajoules, essentially flat compared to our 2013 energy use. Seventy-five percent of our energy use was generated directly by our operations, primarily at our Seminole and Tioga Gas Processing Plants, at our production facilities in North Dakota, South Arne and Equatorial Guinea and from our Global Drilling Operation. The remaining 25 percent was gross indirect energy (including energy burned by utilities to provide net purchased electricity) purchased for our North Dakota and Permian basin operations and gas processing plants.  The 16 percent increase in electricity  
usage in 2014 is primarily attributable to the use of new electric turbines to power the Tioga Gas Plant expansion project. While electricity consumption is increasing, the expanded gas plant is capable of processing significantly more natural gas (previously flared), which is being captured and transported to the gas plant for processing. 
In 2014 our U.S. operations accounted  
for essentially all (approximately 865,000 megawatt hours) of our purchased electricity. Based on U.S. electricity generation profiles, we estimate that approximately 14 percent of this electricity was generated from renewable sources, primarily wind power. An element of our climate strategy is to use more renewable energy through the purchase of renewable energy certificates (RECs) equivalent to at least 10 percent of net electricity used in our operations. In 2014 we purchased 125,000 Green-e Energy certified RECs for wind power, equivalent to 125,000 megawatt hours or about 12 percent of our purchased electricity from E&P operated assets. Overall, approximately 26 percent of our indirect energy use was from renewables.
See our CDP Climate Change response at 
hess.com/s/cdpclimatechange2014 Corporate Sustainability Report
2014 Energy Use by Country 
Thousand Gigajoules
U.S. 25,749
Equatorial Guinea 4,701Denmark 2,385Malayasia 932Other 6602% 3%
75%14%7%
22%
78%
Natural Gas 20,198
Diesel 5,6312014 Direct Energy Use by Fuel Source
Thousand Gigajoules
40,000
30,000
20,000
10,000
0Energy Use
Direct
Indirect2012 2013 201428,0746,913
26,4217,429
25,8298,597Thousand Gigajoules2014  Purchased Electricity by  
Primary Energy Source
Energy SourceThousand 
MWhPercentage
Coal 480 56%
Natural Gas 212 24%Wind 101 12%Nuclear 36 4%
Conventional  
Hydroelectric22 3%
Biomass, Solar, 
Other Renewables14 2%
*  Approximate ﬁgures based on U.S. Energy Information Administration 
2013 state electricity generation proﬁles.
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   41 7/1/15   3:44 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   43 7/1/15   4:35 PM42CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY
Methane emissions come from a range of 
sources and sectors of the economy that are unevenly dispersed across the landscape. Methane is emitted by natural sources as well as by human activities, such as from natural gas systems and agriculture. The cleaner burning characteristics of natural gas will enable it to play a critical role in the nation’s diverse energy future. The issue of fugitive emissions of methane during natural gas production has received attention as shale energy production in the United States has resulted in an increasing supply of abundant, low cost natural gas. While technology has made it possible for the industry to produce more natural gas, questions related to attribution and measurement have led to uncertainties in estimates of current and projected methane emissions.
In 2014, the U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency (EPA) released an analysis of methane emissions and trends in the United States. The 
study indicated that methane emissions decreased by almost 11 percent between 1990 and 2012. Methane emissions from agricultural activities were found to have increased, but emissions from sources associated with the exploration and production of natural gas decreased. During this same time period, natural gas production increased 40 percent. Despite these decreasing methane emissions trends, our industry and Hess specifically are investing in efforts to improve methane data collection and measurement, to improve our understanding of methane sources and trends and to enable more effective management of opportunities to reduce methane emissions.
Hess, together with a number of other 
companies, has collaborated with Colorado State University (CSU) and the Environmental Defense Fund (EDF) to study methane emissions associated with the natural gas industry’s 
gathering infrastructure and processing plants. This study is one of 16 studies sponsored by EDF and its industry partners to quantify natural gas emissions across the value chain. The CSU study, which was published in February 2015 in Environmental Science & Technology , is the 
largest and most comprehensive field study to date for the oil gathering and processing sector. In this study, researchers found wide variations in the amount of methane being emitted at various sites – especially in the gathering sector. The study found that less than 1 percent of the methane that passed through natural gas gathering and processing facilities in the United States leaks. It also revealed that roughly one-third of gathering facilities account for 80 percent of methane emissions. The study went on to say that variations among similar facilities were being driven by differences in inlet and outlet pressure and abnormal process conditions. The research team is using the measurement data to develop an estimate of total methane emissions from all gathering and processing facilities in the country. Those results are expected to be published later in 2015. Hess is also collaborating with six other oil and gas companies, EDF and the Southwestern Research Institute in the Methane Sensor Challenge. This challenges technology developers and engineers to develop low cost methane monitors that can help the oil and gas industry better detect, and ultimately reduce, methane emissions.
In January 2015 the Obama Administration 
announced plans to cut methane emissions from  oil and gas operations by 45 percent by 2025 from 2012 levels. While we view this goal as ambitious, the Administration is focused first on regulation of new and modified sources of emissions and has deferred direct regulation of existing sources of methane emissions in hopes that voluntary initiatives such as ONE Future, 
IMPROVING OUR UNDERSTANDING OF 
METHANE EMISSIONS
Gas Plant, Seminole, Texas
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   42 7/1/15   3:44 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   44 7/1/15   4:35 PM43which is described below, will minimize the 
need for regulatory action to control existing sources.
Hess is a founding member of the ONE Future 
Coalition, which was established in late 2014. ONE Future is a coalition of companies from across the natural gas industry focused on identifying policy and technical solutions that yield continuous improvement in the management of methane emissions associated with the production, processing, transportation and distribution of natural gas. ONE Future offers a performance-based, flexible approach to managing methane emissions that is expected to yield significant reductions in emissions. The goal is to voluntarily lower methane emissions to less than 1 percent of gross natural gas production across the value chain. ONE Future’s approach will be for each of the four industry sectors to aim for reduction targets proportional to their share of total emissions. As shown at right, emissions across the full natural gas value chain are averaging 1.31 percent, according to the EPA’s established methodology.
ONE Future, through the use of an external 
consultant, will review current methane emissions factors, in light of the recent EDF coordinated research studies, to determine whether those methodologies are representative and include all major sources. This will allow ONE Future to establish and agree on an emissions protocol with the EPA. After a baseline is established, ONE Future will set sector targets for proportional reductions beyond current emissions rates. Consideration will also be given to the safety, practicality and cost effectiveness of potential reductions and, if appropriate, they may place increased emphasis on specific processes and sectors. Each of ONE Future’s member companies seeks to provide maximum value  to the consumer, and it is for that reason that our approach to reducing methane emissions 
is focused on identifying and addressing the most cost-effective emissions sources. To resolve potential conflicts, ONE Future has commissioned independent technical studies by leading researchers in the field that will determine specific emission reduction targets for each sector in order to achieve the overall goal of an industry-wide average target of 1 percent or less of gross production.
With improvements in measurement 
methodology and strategies to reduce methane emissions that will likely result from studies like the CSU study, we are confident that we can gain a better understanding of the methane issue. The company commits to work toward setting reasonable methane reduction targets over the next one to three year period, working in collaboration with the ONE Future coalition.
For the past 18 years, Hess has been a 
partner in the EPA’s Natural Gas Star program. This program created a partnership between the EPA and industry to identify and share best practices that yield reduced methane emissions. Since joining the Natural Gas Star Program in 1997, Hess has achieved cumulative methane emission reductions of 1.6 million tonnes of CO
2 equivalent 
(3,325,333 MCF). These results have been achieved through employing the Natural Gas Star methane reduction technologies and practices shown in the pie chart at the right.
The EPA is currently developing the next 
generation of Natural Gas Star through a program called Enhanced Natural Gas Star, which Hess is helping to shape through ONE Future and the American Petroleum Institute. While all of this collaborative activity is  going on, Hess is continually looking for opportunities to reduce our methane footprint.  2014 Corporate Sustainability Report
Methane Leakage Rates Across the 
Percentage Gross Natural Gas Production
Distribution & Retail
Gathering & Production
Transmission & Storage
26.2%28.4%
17.8%
18.4%Flare Reduction
5.0%  Other
4.2% 
Installation of Vapor 
Recovery Units
Installation of Electric  
CompressorsInstallation of   
Flash Tank
Separators on Glycol
DehydratorsInstallation of 
Catalytic Converters0.26%
0.44%0.42%
0.19%
* of 1.31% overall average methane leakage rate
* of 1.6 million tonnes of CO 2e emission reductionsExploration & Production 
%11ee
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   43 7/1/15   3:44 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   45 7/1/15   4:35 PMENVIRONMENT
Utica Drilling Operations
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   44 7/1/15   3:44 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   46 7/1/15   4:35 PM45We consider responsible management of 
our environmental footprint to be an important component of our operational excellence. We dedicate significant staff and resources to ensuring compliance with environmental laws and regulations, international standards and our voluntary commitments. 
We have several key performance 
metrics that we track at the asset and enterprise levels, and performance on these metrics is included in the employee bonus formula. Our assets have spill preparedness and response plans and conduct emergency response exercises. Through these efforts, we continuously strive to reduce the amount of water and energy we use, limit our emissions to air, and prevent spills and other unplanned releases.
WATER  
At Hess, we recognize public concern about our industry’s use of water, and we 
are committed to using water wisely in our operations. We understand the importance of a risk-based approach to water management, which means considering the entire water lifecycle –from sourcing to use to disposal. We closely monitor our water use and are always looking for ways to reduce our water footprint. We also work hard to safeguard underground drinking water aquifers in the areas near our wells, as discussed in the Shale Energy section of this report.
Our total exploration and production 
water use increased by 11 percent year-over-year, due to growth in our shale 
operations in Ohio and North Dakota. 
Our Seminole Gas Processing (SGP) plant 
in West Texas remains our biggest single water user, accounting for 66 percent of our usage in 2014. The SGP plant uses water primarily for process cooling and sources it from a Hess owned and operated groundwater well field that withdraws from the Ogallala Aquifer. 
The SGP plant is located in a region 
where baseline water stress is categorized as “high risk,” based on evaluations we have conducted using the World Resources Institute’s Aqueduct water risk mapping tool. Water demand in the region is driven primarily by agricultural uses, and Hess’ consumption is a small fraction of that use. According to Texas Water Development Board data, our withdrawals from the aquifer represent only 0.1 percent of estimated annual water demand. 
We have been working for several years 
to find ways to reduce our water use at the SGP plant. The facility recirculates water in its cooling towers between three to five cycles, and to prevent buildup of solids in the circulating water, a portion is removed as “blowdown.” This blowdown water, which totaled 939,000 cubic meters in 2014, is reused in our Permian production operations to maintain reservoir pressure. 
In 2014 a consultant completed a  
feasibility study of water efficiency options for the SGP plant. The study 2014 KEY DEVELOPMENTS
>  Conducted study to 
evaluate water efficiency options at Seminole Gas Plant>  Continued progress  on environmental  and social impact assessments at  several of our assets2015 GOALS
>  Continue initiatives to reduce environmental impacts of shale energy development>  Utilize Environmentally Friendly Drilling scorecard to assess drilling performance  in North Dakota>  Conduct hydrogeological study to assess capacity of Ogallala Aquifer to better understand long term availability and yield
Freshwater Use
Million Cubic Meters
Surface Water
Municipal WaterGroundwater
Seminole Gas Plant 6,078North Dakota 1,688Ohio 1,000Tioga Gas Plant 271 International 19266%18%11%3%2%12
10
8
6
4
2
0
2014 Freshwater Use by  
Business and Facility
Thousand Cubic Meters
(continued on page 49)2012 2013 20140.070.450.89
2.0 1.5 2.2
6.5 6.3 6.2
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   45 7/1/15   3:44 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   47 7/1/15   4:35 PM46 
                 
SHALE ENERGYENVIRONMENT
1.  Comparison of Water Use for Hydraulic Fracturing for Unconventional Oil and Gas versus Conventional Oil. B. R. Scanlon, R. C.  Reedy, and J.-P . Nicot. Environmental Science & Technology  2014 48 (20), 12386-12393.  
DOI: 10.1021/es502506vIn recent years Hess has made significant 
investments in unconventional oil and gas plays – first in the Bakken formation in North Dakota, the premier tight oil play in the United States, and more recently in the Utica formation in Ohio, an emerging shale gas play. In both plays we extract hydrocarbons from tight rock formations using horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing. The oil and gas from these two plays constitute about 30 percent of Hess’ total production.  
We recognize that the public has voiced concerns 
about the potential effects of shale energy operations on the environment, public health and safety. At Hess, we aim to develop our resources responsibly and with minimal impacts. To do this, we employ multidisciplinary risk management processes in our planning and decision making. Our enterprise risk management process, discussed in the How We Operate section, includes activity aspect identification and technical review as well as value assurance activities.  
All of our assets also undergo several stages of 
detailed, activity-based risk assessment during the capture, appraisal, development and production phases. These multidisciplinary risk assessments help us identify mitigation measures we can pursue to ensure protection of the environment, protection of the communities in which we operate, and the safety of our combined contractor and employee workforce.  
We also have a multi-year internal audit plan in 
place that ensures we perform Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) audits of our assets regularly. Our North Dakota and Ohio assets were audited in 2013, and our Tioga Gas Plant was audited in 2014. Going forward, we will be conducting focused EHS audits at our unconventional assets on an annual basis. Furthermore, we continue to identify and address stakeholder concerns to improve our performance and enhance our “license to operate,” as discussed in the Community and 
Social Performance section.  
Protection of Water Quality  
To help ensure that water resources are 
protected, we make groundwater and surface water monitoring a priority. In Ohio we determine baseline groundwater and surface water conditions at sites prior to drilling. We also perform post-drilling assessment and, depending on risk, we annually sample wells and surface water at select assets. In North Dakota, the state operates a regional network of groundwater quality monitoring wells. We sample surface water where requested by landowners and when the surface water body is close to our activities and test the water to assess its suitability for hydraulic fracturing.  
Groundwater resources are protected by sensible 
onsite operating practices, including the development of plans to prevent spills of chemicals used in well construction and completion. We employ closed-loop fluid containment systems for drilling fluids at our North Dakota and Ohio shale energy drilling sites. Frac fluid flowback is stored in closed top tanks with secondary containment. These practices prevent potential surface water and groundwater impacts. In addition, the practices allow for the recycling of drilling materials and reduce the volume of waste that needs disposing onsite in lined impoundments or transported offsite for disposal at regulated facilities.  
Water Use  
A recent study showed that, on average, hydraulic fracturing uses less water than conventional drilling to retrieve the same amount of oil or gas.
1 That said, fracturing does require 
significant amounts of fresh, locally sourced water, and that water is sent deep underground and thus removed from the Earth’s water cycle. We understand the importance of managing this precious resource responsibly, and as part of our environmental commitment, we aim to reduce 
our freshwater use. 
Hydraulic fracturing accounted for about 28 
percent of Hess’ total freshwater consumption in 2014, with North Dakota at 18 percent and  Ohio at 10 percent.  
No flowback water was reused, due to high 
salinity in North Dakota and limited quantities  in Ohio.  
In early 2015 we analyzed our full-year 2014 
water use in the Bakken compared to 12 major peers in the region. Using publicly available data reported to state regulatory authorities, we found that Hess used 46,000 barrels of water per well fractured, which was significantly less than our peers.  
In recent years we have tested several 
alternatives to fresh water – including non-potable water sources such as treated domestic wastewater, saline water and frac fluid flowback – to assess their suitability for hydraulic fracturing. In North Dakota, we do use small quantities of non-potable, underground water (from the Beaver Lodge Devonian Unit formation) for workover and drilling operations. In Ohio, in early 2015 we successfully piloted the use of produced water for pump down operations in one well, and the use of produced water for additional wells is planned. Though several projects have shown promise, most have not proven economically feasible to date. 
Well Integrity  
Whether for conventional or unconventional resources production, the key to protecting underground water resources is well integrity –that is, ensuring strong and impermeable physical barriers between our wellbores and the surrounding rock and underground aquifers. 
While the well completion and hydraulic 
fracturing processes occur miles below the Earth’s surface, our wellbores pass through 
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   46 7/1/15   3:45 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   48 7/1/15   4:35 PM47groundwater at shallower depths during drilling 
and well construction. Therefore before designing or constructing any well, we investigate the depth and lateral extent of any underground fresh water to ensure that we protect that water and conform to regulatory requirements and internal standards. 
In the U.S. we are typically required by state 
agencies to design casing and cementing plans that will isolate any underground fresh water from the contents of the wellbore. We submit this information in applications for well construction permits, which must be reviewed and approved by regulators. Even in locations where such permitting processes are not in place, we use prudent industry well construction standards, as described below. Well completion designs can vary from asset to asset due to differences in the formation, the management of drilling risks and technology applications.  
To help ensure well integrity, our wellbores are 
lined with multiple layers of steel pipe and encased in cement to depths well below the deepest freshwater zones. Specifically:    •  A “surface casing” is installed from the  
surface to below the lowest known freshwater zone and then cemented in that interval from the deepest point to the surface around the casing, thereby creating a physical barrier between the materials in the well and the strata containing the groundwater being protected.  
•  Inside the surface casing, a second 
“intermediate” casing is installed and cemented in place.
   •  An acoustic cement bond log is selectively 
employed to ensure the cement barrier is in place, which prevents fluid migration. 
   •  The well completion is performed through a 
third casing (Ohio) or liner (North Dakota) placed inside the intermediate casing to the depth of the lateral. In North Dakota, a “frac string” is then run and connected to the top of the liner. This provides an additional physical barrier to isolate fluids within  the well. 
   •   Due to potential fracture stimulation 
interference (i.e., stimulating one well and observing increased pressure on nearby producing wells), nearby oil and gas wells are shut-in during fracturing activity (based on distance from the well being stimulated), and wellhead systems are tested for integrity prior to any activity. 
•  During hydraulic fracturing, procedures are in 
place to operate surface and downhole equipment within their design ratings. 
•  Monitoring of microseismic events is 
conducted in real-time, for two purposes:  •    to monitor the growth, i.e., the orientation 
and dimensions of induced hydraulic fractures, which are created during the completion of wells, and
 •    to monitor for any low-level seismicity.
Using these and other practices, we ensure 
annullar integrity in our well construction 
operations. In North Dakota we have drilled over 200 new wells annually for the past several years and experienced zero cases of failed well 
integrity in our unconventional operations.
 
Note: Bakken example. Drawing is not to scale and numbers are approximate.
 •  Inside the surface casing, a second 
“intermediate” casing is installed and cemented in place.2014 Corporate Sustainability Report
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   47 7/1/15   3:45 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   49 7/1/15   4:35 PM48ENVIRONMENT
Frac Fluid Additives  
To conduct drilling and fracturing operations effectively and safely, we use water mixed with very small concentrations of chemical additives in the wellbore. Each additive has an essential purpose, such as reducing friction, killing bacteria or inhibiting corrosion or scale deposits. The well casing and cementing processes described previously help to ensure that the chemicals in our fracturing fluid never come into contact with groundwater or surface waters.  
We know that some stakeholders are concerned 
about the makeup of these fluids, however, and we have worked to select the compositions of least concern. For instance, we do not use diesel or benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene or xylene (BTEX) in our frac fluids. Also, we require our hydraulic fracturing contractors to provide non-proprietary data regarding the chemicals used in each fractured well. This information is publicly available on the FracFocus website, and we conduct periodic audits of FracFocus submissions to ensure accuracy.
We participate in stakeholder forums that are 
developing science-based frameworks for the evaluation of hazards and risks associated with chemical additives and the promotion of safer and more protective alternatives. We respect our frac fluid and service providers’ desire to keep proprietary formulations confidential, while we also encourge our suppliers to voluntarily disclose all chemical additives. 
Air Emissions   
In our shale energy operations, greenhouse gases and other air pollutants are emitted during flowback and production operations when the infrastructure is not available for immediate connection to the wellhead. Where a pipeline connection is unavailable, flaring of the natural gas produced during flowback may be utilized to create a safe working environment during that process.  
In Ohio, during well completions, we typically 
direct gas directly into the gas gathering Since 2013 in North Dakota we have been rapidly 
increasing our use of flexible hose for transporting fresh water to drilling sites, rather than trucks. In 2014 more than 43 percent of our water was transported this way, and we expect to reach 60 percent in 2015. See the Climate Change and Energy section for more information on this initiative.  
Crude-by-Rail Safety  
The transport of crude oil by rail has become an issue of increasing concern in the United States and Canada, as shipments have increased alongside the increase in shale oil production, and several high-profile derailments have occurred. Improving crude-by-rail safety is a shared effort among railroad companies, regulators and operators. At Hess, we are taking the issue very seriously and are committed to doing our part to minimize the risks involved.  
Hess’ Tioga Rail Terminal is fed by pipeline and a 
truck offloading facility. Hess was the first company in the industry to have a fleet comprised entirely of the AAR Petition P-1577 railcar, which was designed to safely transport crude oil, including the light sweet crude found in the Bakken. In 2015 Hess will be one of the first companies to procure crude oil tank cars equipped with thicker shells and full height head shields for puncture resistance, enhanced thermal protection, and bottom fittings protection as called for in the latest DOT-117 enhanced tank car design standard.    
We have an internal, cross-functional Rail 
Transport Working Team, which meets weekly to share information regarding any and all issues relating to rail safety. We are also actively engaged with oil and gas industry efforts to further improve the safety of rail crude oil transport. We are represented on the American Petroleum Institute (API) Rail Policy Committee, Government Affairs Committee and Rail Transportation Group, and are active on several multi-stakeholder task forces addressing these issues. Also, we work closely with railroad companies to help ensure that our oil is delivered safely.
SHALE ENERGY CONT.
infrastructure. This eliminates the need to flare, although we do occasionally need to flare gas for testing purposes. In some well locations in North  Dakota, this type of infrastructure is still being built. We have a flaring reduction strategy for North Dakota and have been steadily investing in infrastructure, as discussed in the Climate Change and Energy section.  
See the Climate Change and Energy section for 
more information on greenhouse gas emissions, and the Environment section for more on other air emissions. 
Land Use  
We seek to minimize land use and reduce the number of well sites needed to develop our acreage. In North Dakota, we continue to transition from a single well per pad to hold the lease to multi-well pad drilling. In 2015 we are developing one “super pad” that will contain 19 wells on a single well pad with shared surface facilities. In Ohio, we have employed a geographic information systems (GIS) tool for use during appraisal activities in order to minimize impact on the environment and streamline permitting. The tool incorporates environmental and social baseline data as GIS layers and is used to identify sensitive areas and select well pad locations.  
Transportation Impacts  
We are sensitive to stakeholder concerns about increased trucks on the road in areas of high drilling activity. In North Dakota, we have participated in multi-stakeholder initiatives aimed at minimizing the oil industry’s impact on public roads and traffic congestion. And we have collaborated with community partners and state officials in North Dakota to ensure adequate infrastructure funding to improve traffic safety and support road maintenance. In 2015 we plan to remove additional trucks from the road through the use of remote truck offloading at the Ramberg truck facility and the addition of new crude oil booster pumps, which will deliver oil from Ramberg to the Tioga Rail Terminal. 
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   48 7/1/15   3:45 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   50 7/1/15   4:35 PM49included both practice- and technology-
based recommendations for reducing water use. For 2015, we have contracted for a hydrogeological study to be completed, to assess the capacity of the aquifer and help us better understand long term water availability and yield.
Drilling and completion activities in North 
Dakota and Ohio comprise our second-largest water use. Most of this water is used for hydraulic fracturing. As discussed in the Shale Energy section of this report, in North Dakota we have tested several options for using nonpotable water for this purpose, though none have proven economically feasible to date. 
Because water optimization is a concern 
not just for our company but for our entire industry, we participate in two industry forums focused on this issue. A Hess representative is vice chair of a water working group convened by IPIECA, the oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues. The working group aims to help companies improve their water use performance and reduce their water footprint by providing sound analysis, assessment tools, good practices, credible data sources and appropriate indicators. 
We are also a founding member of the 
Energy Water Initiative, a collaborative effort among 18 oil and natural gas companies to study, describe and improve lifecycle water use and management in upstream unconventional oil and natural gas exploration and production.
BIODIVERSITY  
At every Hess location around the globe, we include the protection of biodiversity in our project decision making and management. We typically conduct formal 
environmental and social impact assessments (ESIAs) on all major capital projects as part of site evaluation, selection and risk assessment. These ESIAs include biodiversity baseline studies as well as screenings of identified species against the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List and other threatened, endangered and protected species lists. The results of the ESIAs are used to create mitigation strategies. When a full ESIA is not appropriate, we still routinely conduct biodiversity risk screenings and impact assessments and undertake appropriate mitigation activities. In addition, we conduct assessments where the classification of species and habitats change in areas where we operate. 
In 2014 we completed two full ESIAs –
one for our deepwater Stampede project in the Gulf of Mexico and one for our onshore Pires asset in Kurdistan. The Stampede ESIA found no species of concern and recommended no mitigation efforts beyond those already outlined in the regulatory permits. The Pires ESIA identified three birds and one plant from the IUCN Red List in our area of operation. We subsequently developed mitigation measures to help protect these species, which included surveying drilling locations for these species. 
In the United States we have been 
monitoring the addition of new species to the national endangered and threatened species lists by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS). (The FWS is expected to add approximately 250 new such species by the end of 2015.) We are identifying locations where we may need to conduct new biological risk assessments and develop mitigation plans as a result of these listings. Already, we have adjusted 
drilling site locations to accommodate  habitat features and priorities for certain species.
In the Permian Basin in Texas, we 
conducted a biological survey of lesser prairie chicken habitat, as this species was listed by the FWS as threatened in early 2014. We determined that our leased areas did not overlap with habitat for this species. As part of an Environmental Assessment process that is currently underway, we are working with the FWS in North Dakota to help ensure that our proposed Hawkeye pipeline does not unduly impact the Dakota skipper, a butterfly species listed as threatened in October 2014.
We maintain a list of IUCN Red List  
species with habitat that overlaps with  our operations (see table).
1
We also identify IUCN protected areas (categories I-III) adjacent to our operations. In 2014 there were three such areas – two in North Dakota (Lostwood Wilderness Area and Theodore Roosevelt National Park) and one in Australia (Wanjarri Nature Reserve).
2
IUCN CategoryNumber of 
Species
Critically Endangered 13
Endangered 30
Vulnerable 141
Near Threatened 188
1 The numbers in this table – especially for vulnerable and 
near threatened species – are greater than reported in previous years because both our operational footprint and our internal measurement techniques have changed. We are now using internationally verified data sets at a less granular scale for consistency across our assets, while previous measurement was based more on individual biological assessments, localized to each asset.
2 Our reporting on IUCN protected areas has also become 
more robust compared to past years, as we now have tools to categorize protected areas in an internationally consistent way .2014 Corporate Sustainability Report
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   49 7/1/15   3:45 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   51 7/1/15   4:35 PM50We regularly work with our industry 
peers on biodiversity-related issues. For example, we are an active member of the Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services working group of IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues. In October we helped lead (and had several staff members participate in) the working group’s first peer-to-peer training workshop on managing biodiversity and ecosystem services in the oil and gas industry.
We also participate in the Cross Sector 
Biodiversity Initiative (CSBI), a partnership of IPIECA, the International Council on Mining and Metals and the Equator Principles Association. This initiative brings the mining, oil and gas and financial sectors together to develop and share good practices for safeguarding biodiversity and ecosystems. In 2014 the CSBI published a timeline tool designed to help align project development, biodiversity impact management, and financial timelines and milestones. 
Hess is also a sponsor and active 
member of the Environmentally Friendly Drilling (EFD) program. The EFD program is a partnership among multiple oil and gas companies, academia and environmental organizations and is coordinated by the Houston Advanced Research Center. It aims to provide unbiased science and develop solutions to address environmental issues associated with oil and gas development. For example, the EFD developed a scorecard that provides oil and gas companies with a means for objectively assessing and continually improving their environmental performance and that of their service providers. In 2014 we used the scorecard to assess and improve practices at our Ohio assets; we plan to 
use it at our North Dakota assets in 2015. 
WASTE  
Our operations generate a variety of waste streams, including construction debris; scrap metal and wood; oily tank bottoms; contaminated soil; office and domestic waste such as paper, cardboard and light bulbs; and other waste items specific to drilling and production operations. It should be noted that, consistent with IPIECA reporting guidelines, our waste data do not include mud and cuttings generated in our onshore operations. Wastes are managed according to the waste management plan specific to each operating location. The waste management plan is designed to comply with all applicable regulatory requirements and to protect human health and the environment. Following our lean philosophy, our operations try to minimize waste generation and recycle wherever possible. 
In 2014 we generated approximately 
188,000 tonnes of waste, nearly all (99 percent) of which was deemed non-hazardous according to applicable regulations. In addition, we disposed of 84,693 tonnes of drill cuttings from our North Dakota and Ohio operations at licensed disposal sites in 2014.
DISCHARGES  
Discharges from our offshore facilities include drilling mud, drill cuttings and produced water. At some of these facilities, these waste streams are reinjected for disposal or reservoir management, whereas others discharge directly to the ocean. In some other cases we ship drilling waste to shore for treatment and disposal.ENVIRONMENT
Waste
Thousand Tonnes
3.9
103.63.6
145.11.7
187.6
2012 2013 2014
Hazardous
Non-hazardous
Oil in Produced Water  
Discharges to Sea
Oil Volume in Produced Water (tonnes)
Oil Concentration in Produced Water (ppmv)300
200
100
0
119
970
14136
10
2012 2013 2014Oil Volume in Water (tonnes)
Oil Concentration in 
Produced Water (ppmv)140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   50 7/1/15   3:45 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   52 7/1/15   4:35 PM51Offshore discharges of non-aqueous 
drilling mud and cuttings in Equatorial Guinea and Ghana in 2014 contained approximately 140 tonnes of low toxicity synthetic fluid. This represents an increase from the previous year because of an increase in the number of offshore wells drilled.
Offshore produced water discharges 
totaled 6 million cubic meters in 2014. Produced water discharges had an average oil content of 14 parts per million volume (ppmv), totaling 70 tonnes of oil discharged. This reflects a year-over-year decrease in total oil discharged and an increase in the average oil content, primarily due to the divestiture of our offshore operations in Indonesia which had high volumes of discharges with relatively low oil content.
SPILL PREVENTION 
The number of spills remained relatively 
flat year-over-year. The volume of non-hydrocarbon spills decreased, while the volume of hydrocarbon spills increased due to a handful of larger spills in our Denmark and North Dakota operations.
In 2014 we conducted a detailed analysis 
of our spill reporting. The aim of this analysis was to better identify root causes and to make recommendations with respect to improved data collection 
and indicators and to provide targeted input to spill mitigation strategies. Based on encouraging results from this analysis we embarked on a more detailed analysis as part of our 2015 EHS “Must Do’s.”
We maintain strong relationships with 
mutual aid and emergency response organizations at the local, regional and global levels to enhance our ability to respond swiftly and effectively to any incidents. More information about our emergency response program, including our memberships and partnerships with spill response organizations, is provided in the Safety and Health section of  this report.
CRITERIA POLLUTANTS  
Air emissions of nitrogen oxides (NO X) 
and sulfur dioxide (SO 2) result from fuel 
combustion, process operations and flaring activities. Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) are mainly emitted during product loading and storage. In 2014 our normalized emissions of VOCs remained relatively consistent with the previous year, while emissions of NO
X 
and SO 2 decreased. The decrease in NO X 
emissions is due to reduced drilling activity in 2014. The decrease in SO
2 
emissions is due to the completion of the Tioga Gas Plant expansion.Volume of Spills (bbls)
Number of SpillsCriteria Pollutants
SO 2
VOCsNO
x25
20
15
10
5
0SO2 Emissions (tonnes per million BOE)
NOx/VOC Emissions
(tonnes per thousand BOE)
Hydrocarbon Spills
79 7975
2012 2013 20141,000
900
800
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
Number of Spills200
150100500Volume of Spills (bbls)
Non-Hydrocarbon Spills
1,86758
1,923
1,120
Volume of Spills (bbls)
Number of Spills2012 2013 201450 52Volume of Spills (bbls)
Number of Spills5,000
4,000
3,000
2,000
1,000
0100
8060402002012 2013 201421.1 21.7
8.1
7.19.2 9.0
7.7
6.525
20
15
10
5
013.7
Okume Complex, Equatorial Guinea734
4686012014 Corporate Sustainability Report
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   51 7/1/15   3:45 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   53 7/1/15   4:35 PM52PERFORMANCE DATA
  Where relevant, all data are restated to exclude joint ventures and the downstream businesses. See Our Approach to Reporting fo r details.
*  Supplier spend for 2010 is U.S. only; 2013 and 2014 data are E&P only.
Y Reflects data for exploration and production only.Units 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
Business Performance
Sales and other operating revenue $ Million 10,737 11,905 12,245 10,647 9,123
Net income attributable to Hess Corporation $ Million 2,317 5,052 2,025 1,703 2,125
Total assets $ Million 38,578 42,754 43,441 39,136 35,396
Total debt $ Million 5,987 5,798 8,111 6,057 5,583
Stockholders’ equity $ Million 22,320 24,784 21,203 18,592 16,809
Debt to capitalization ratio % 21.2 19.0 27.7 24.6 24.9
Exploration and Production
Total net hydrocarbons produced Thousand BOE/D 329 336 406 370 418
Proved reserves (total) Million BOE 1,431 1,437 1,553 1,573 1,537
   Liquids (crude oil (light and medium oils), condensate & natural gas liquids) % 78 77 75 74 72
   Gas % 2 22 32 5 2 6 2 8
Reserve life Years 12 12 10 11 10
Replaced production % 158 118 141 147 176
Economic Contributions
Capital and exploration expenditures $ Million 5,606 6,209 8,152 7,462 5,855
Operating costs $/BOE 21.0 22.6 20.6 19.7 14.5
Income tax $ Million 744 565 1,529 702 1,188
Royalties and other payments to governments $ Million 707 807 920 947 1,542
Cash dividends paid to shareholders $ Million 303 235 171 136 131
Employee wages and benefits (U.S.) $ Million 1,040 1,037 1,045 1,057 992
Interest expense before income taxes $ Million 323 406 419 383 361
Supplier spend * (approximate) $ Billion 8 8 8 6 2
Communities and Social Performance
Total social investment $ Million 42 37 40 23 18
Education % 8 05 24 7 3 3 3 4
Health % 124 5 1 2
Disaster relief % 2 3 13 5 9
Community contributions (not in-kind) % 13 25 22 20 19
In-kind %4 1 2 9 2 8 1 8
Arts and culture % — 6 5 8 7
Environment % <1 <1 <1 1 1
Our People
Number of permanent employees # 3,045 12,128 13,277 13,021 12,587
U.S. % 7 89 19 0 9 1 9 1
International % 22 9 10 10 9
Part time employees % 1 27 23 24 NC
Full time employees % 99 73 77 76 NC
Employee turnover – voluntary  Y % 9.1 13.1 10.4 7.9 NC
Employee layoffs Y % 19.8 14.6 3.2 1.1 NC
Female employees (U.S. and International) % 28 43 40 39 40
Minority employees (U.S.) % 24 39 38 37 36
Employees represented by collective bargaining agreements % 1 4 6 7 9
Safety Performance
Fatalities – employees + contractors # 0 0 100
Hours worked – workforce (employees + contractors) Million hours 37.8 47.1 45.3 35.5 22.5
Employee Recordable Incident Rate Per 200,000 hrs worked 0.20 0.20 0.14 0.25 0.24
Contractor Recordable Incident Rate Per 200,000 hrs worked 0.45 0.60 0.71 0.75 0.50
Workforce (employees + contractors) Recordable Incident Rate Per 200,000 hrs worked 0.40 0.52 0.60 0.64 0.42
Employee Lost Time Incident Rate Per 200,000 hrs worked — 0.05 0.05 0.08 0.09
Contractor Lost Time Incident Rate cident Rate Per 200,000 hrs worked 0.14 0.16 0.20 0.12 0.08
Workforce Lost Time Incident Rate Per 200,000 hrs worked 0.12 0.14 0.17 0.11 0.08
Products with Material Safety Data Sheets % 100 100 100 100 100
Health and safety fines and penalties – operated $ Thousand 37.5 0 0 0 0
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   52 7/1/15   3:45 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   54 7/1/15   4:35 PM53PERFORMANCE DATA2014 Corporate Sustainability Report
Units 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbons MMSCF 35,987 29,356 26,386 21,604 15,491
Operated direct emissions (Scope 1) Million Tonnes CO2e 4.8 4.4 5.0 4.3 3.7
    CO2 Million Tonnes CO2e 4.4 4.2 4.7 4.2 3.5
    CH4 Thousand Tonnes CO2e 403.1 166.5 207.4 139.6 123.7
    N2O Thousand Tonnes CO2e 28.4 31.1 24.5 21.8 23.6
Operated direct emissions (Scope 1) by source    Flaring/venting % 61 54 49 43 36
    Fuel combustion % 35 41 46 55 61
    Other % 3 5 5 2 3
Operated indirect emissions (Scope 2) Million Tonnes CO
2e 0.64 0.75 0.76 0.74 0.78
    CO2 Million Tonnes CO2e 0.6 0.8 0.8 0.7 0.8
    CH4 Thousand Tonnes CO2e 0.29 nil 0.15 0.15 0.15
    N2O Thousand Tonnes CO2e 2.7 3.1 7.8 7.2 6.7
Net equity GHG emissions (includes HOVENSA) Million Tonnes CO2e 6.0 6.5 8.0 9.1 9.0
Scope 3 emissions – use of sold products Million Tonnes CO2e 11.5 13.9 22.1 35.7 40.2
Energy Use
Production energy intensity Gigajoules/BOE 0.29 0.28 0.24 0.25 0.22
Operated direct energy use Thousand Gigajoules 25,829 26,421 28,074 27,125 26,617
Operated indirect energy use (gross) Thousand Gigajoules 8,597 7,429 6,913 6,729 6,447
Net purchased electricity by primary energy source **Thousand MWh 865 688 663 646 619
Green-e certified renewable energy certificates (wind power) Thousand MWh 125 140 140 180 140
Freshwater Use
Groundwater Million m36.2 6.3 6.5 8.5 6.6
Municipal water Million m32.2 1.5 2.0 0.7 0.2
Surface water Million m30.89 0.45 0.07 0.02 0.04
Reused/recycled (estimated) % 10.2 10.7 11.0 11.1 NC
Waste
Non-hazardous waste Thousand Tonnes 187.6 145.1 103.6 152.8 83.5
Hazardous waste Thousand Tonnes 1.7 3.6 3.9 4.0 4.2
Basel Convention (recovery/reuse/recycle) Tonnes 0 22 10 0 0
Spills
Hydrocarbon spills – number # 75 79 79 56 23
Hydrocarbon spills – volume bbls 601 468 734 445 306
Non-hydrocarbon spills – number # 52 50 58 86 38
Non-hydrocarbon spills – volume bbls 1,120 1,923 1,867 4,351 436
Air Emissions (Excludes GHGs) X
Sulfur dioxide (SO2) Tonnes 2,016 2,888 3,168 3,069 2,911
SO2 intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 13.7 21.7 21.1 21.3 18.9
Nitrogen oxides (NOx) Tonnes 9,595 10,270 10,600 9,784 8,882
NOx intensity Tonnes/Thousand BOE 6.5 7.7 7.1 6.8 5.8
Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) Tonnes 13,288 12,279 12,175 7,152 10,879
VOC intensity Tonnes/Thousand BOE 9.0 9.2 8.1 5.0 7.1
Exploration & Production Discharges
Oil in produced water to sea Tonnes 70 136 119 149 221
Oil in produced water to sea ppmv 14 10 9 10 13
Produced water to sea Million m36.0 16.7 16.5 17.4 20.1
Other Environmental Indicators
ISO 14001-certified operations % of production 7 2 8 12 13
ISO 14001-certified operations # 2 2 3 3 3
Environmental fines and penalties – operated $ Thousand 84 509 105 115 —
Environmental expenditures – remediation $ Million 12 16 19 19 13
Environmental reserve $ Million 80 65 55 60 55
 Where relevant, all data are restated to exclude joint ventures and the downstream businesses. See Our Approach to Reporting fo r details. 
**  Third party power generation
X    The gross operated hydrocarbon production (normalization factor) was 403,781 BOE/D in 2014.
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   53 7/1/15   3:45 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   55 7/1/15   4:35 PMGRI CONTENT INDEX
This index refers to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 indicators, with cross-reference to the 10 Principles in the Un ited Nations 
Global Compact (UNGC) and IPIECA sector-specific guidelines. Detailed information on GRI indicators related to Board-level governance (4.1–4.7, 4.9, 4.10) and defined benefit plan obligations (EC3) can be found at hess.com/investors and in our Securiti es 
and Exchange Commission (SEC) forms 10-K and DEF 14A. An expanded GRI Index is available at hess.com/gri-index.
Strategy and Analysis
1.1 Message from the CEO 2–3 O
1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities (a) 2–5 O
Organizational Profile
2.1–2.9 Organizational profile (a) 4 O
2.10 Awards received during reporting period 58 O
Report Parameters O
3.1–3.4 Reporting period, scope and boundary 6–7 O
3.4 Contact point for questions regarding report 59 O
3.5–3.8 Determination for content 6–7 O
3.9 Data measurement techniques and basis of calculations 6–7 O
3.10–3.11 Explanation of restatements and significant changes 6–7 O
3.12 GRI content index (c) 54–56 O
3.13 External assurance 7, 57 O
Governance
4.1–4.7, 4.9, 4.10 Information on highest governance body (a, b, c) 9–10 O
4.8 Internal values, codes of conduct and principles 12–13, 20–21 O 1–10
4.11 The precautionary approach OCI O 7
4.12 Externally subscribed or endorsed voluntary initiatives (c) 17 O 1–10
4.13 Key memberships and associations 27, 58 O
4.14–4.17 Stakeholders, types of engagement, key topics and concerns 6–7, 17–20 O
Economic
EC DMA Disclosure on management approach to economic performance (a, b) 2–4 O
EC DMA Disclosure on management approach to market presence 2–4 O
EC DMA Disclosure on management approach to indirect economic impacts 4, 14–15, 17–23 O
EC1 Direct economic value (a, b) 4, 52 O SE4, SE13
EC2 Financial implications of climate change 35–37 O 7
EC3 Defined benefit plan obligations (a, b, c) OCI O
EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government (c) OCI
EC5 Comparison of standard entry level wage with local minimum wage (c) OCI O 1
EC6 Local supplier spend at significant locations of operation 14–15 SE5, SE7
EC7 Local hiring at significant location of operation 32–33 O 6 SE5, SE6
EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services 21–23, 52 O SE4
EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts (c) 21–23, 52 SE6
OG1 Volume and type of estimated proved reserves and production 4, 37, 52 O
Environment
EN DMA Disclosure on management approach to environmental aspects 34–51 O 7
54O Fully reported Partially reported GRI G3.1 Core & OGSS Indicator GRI G3.1 Additional Indicator IPIECA only
GRI  
IndicatorGeneral Description Page(s)GRI 
StatusUNGC  
Principle(s)IPIECA  
Indicator
OCI: GRI Online Content Index 
NM: Not Materiala – See also Annual Report and SEC 10-Kb – See also hess.com/investors 
c – See Online GRI Content Index (hess.com/gri-index)Page(s)
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   54 7/1/15   3:45 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   56 7/1/15   4:35 PMGRI CONTENT INDEX
EN1, EN2 Materials used and percentage recycled input materials (c) 45, 53 8
EN3, EN4 Direct and indirect energy use by primary source 41, 53 O 8E 2
OG2, OG3 Total amount invested in renewable energy and total amount generated by source (c) OCI O 8, 9
EN5 Energy conservation and efficiency initiatives and improvements 39–41 8, 9 E2
EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable products and services (c) OCI O 8, 9 E3
EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved 39–41 8, 9 E2
EN8, EN9 Total water withdrawal by source, significantly affected water sources 45–46, 49 O 8E 6
EN10 Water recycled and reused 45, 49, 53 O 8, 9 E6
EN11, EN12 Proximity of protected areas/areas of high biodiversity 49–50 O 7, 8 E5
EN13 Habitats protected or restored 49–50 O 8E 5
EN14 Strategies, current actions and future plans for managing impact on biodiversity 49–50 O 8E 5
OG4 Significant operating sites in which biodiversity risk has been assessed and monitored 49–50 7, 8
EN15 Number of IUCN Red List and national conservation list species 49 O 7
EN16, EN17 Total direct and indirect and other relevant greenhouse gas emissions 38–39, 53 O 8 E1, E4
EN18 Greenhouse gas reduction initiatives and resuts 39–43 8E 1
EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (c) OCI NM 8E 7
EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions 51, 53 O 8E 7
EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 50–51, 53 O 8E 9
OG5 Volume of formation of produced water (c) 50–51, 53 O 8
EN22 Total weight of waste by type of disposal method 50, 53 O 8 E10
EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 51, 53 O 8E 8
EN24 Basel Convention waste management summary (c) OCI O 8
EN25 Biodiversity value of receiving waters for water discharges and runoff 49–51 O 8
OG6 Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbons 39–40, 53 O 8
OG7 Amount of drilling waste (drill mud and cuttings) and strategies for treatment and 
disposal50–51 8
EN26 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 34–51 O 7–9
EN27 Products sold and packaging reclaimed (c) OCI O 8, 9
OG8 Benzene, lead and sulfur content in fuels (c) OCI O 8
EN28 Fines, penalties and non-compliances (c) OCI O 8
EN29 Transportation impacts 38–41, 48, 53 O 8
EN30 Environmental expenditures (c) OCI O 8
Labor Practices and Decent Work
LA DMA Disclosure on management approach to employment, labor/management relations, 
training and education and diversity and equal opportunity (c)30–33 O
LA DMA Disclosure on management approach to occupational health and safety (c) 24–29 O
LA1 Total workforce by employment type, contract and region 31, 52 O
LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region 31, 53 O 6
LA3 Benefits provided to full time employees that are not provided to temporary or part time 
employees, by major operations (c)OCI O
LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements (c) 52 O 1, 3
LA5 Minimum notice period of significant operational charges (c) OCI O 3
LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in joint safety committees (c) OCI 1 HS1, SE16
LA7 Injury, occupational illness, lost days, absenteeism and fatalities by region (c) 25, 52 1 HS3
LA8 Disease prevention programs (c) 28 O 1 HS2
LA9 Health and safety topics covered in collective bargaining agreements (c) OCI O 1 SE16
LA10 Average hours of training per employee by employee category (c) OCI O SE17
LA11 Programs for skills management, lifelong learning and career endings 32–33 O SE17
55GRI  
IndicatorGeneral Description     Page(s)GRI 
StatusUNGC  
Principle(s)IPIECA  
IndicatorPage(s)2014 Corporate Sustainability Report
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   55 7/1/15   3:45 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   57 7/1/15   4:35 PM56LA12 Employees receiving regular performance and development reviews 32–33 O SE17
LA13 Governing bodies and employees by category according to diversity indicators (c) 33 O 1, 6 SE15
LA14 Ratio of basic salary of women to men by employee category (c) OCI 1, 6
LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender (c) OCI NM
IPIECA Process safety 25–26 N/A — HS5
Human Rights
HR DMA Disclosure on management approach to human rights aspects 8–15, 20–21 O
HR1 Human rights and significant investment agreements (c) 14–15, 20–21 1–6 SE8
HR2 Significant suppliers/contractors screened for human rights (c) 14–15, 20–21 1–6 SE9
HR3 Employee training on policies and procedures concerning human rights 20–21 O 1–6 SE8
HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken (c) OCI O 1, 2, 6 SE18
HR5 Operations and significant suppliers at risk re: freedom of association and collective (c) OCI 1, 2, 3
HR6 Operations and significant suppliers at risk re: child labor (c) OCI 1, 2, 5
HR7 Operations and significant suppliers at risk re: forced and compulsory labor (c) OCI 1, 2, 4
HR8 Security personnel trained on human rights 15, 21 O 1, 2 SE10
HR9 Violations of indigenous peoples' rights (c) OCI O 1, 2
OG9 Indigenous communities present or affected by operations; location of engagement 
strategies19–21 O
HR10 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments (c) 20–21 O
HR11 Grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved though formal
grievance mechanisms (c)OCI O
Society
SO DMA Disclosure on management approach to corruption, public policy, anti-competitive 
behavior and compliance8–15 O 10
SO DMA Disclosure on management approach to community 16–23 O
SO1 Programs and practices that assess and manage impacts of operations on communities 16–23 O SE1–SE5
SO2 Business units analyzed for risks related to corruption (c) OCI O 10 SE11–SE12
SO3 Employees trained in anti-corruption policies and procedures (c) 12–13 O 10 SE11
SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption (c) OCI O 10 SE11
SO5 Public policy positions/participation in public policy development and lobbying (c) 13–14 1, 10 SE14
SO6 Political contributions (c) 13–14 O 10 SE14
SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior and outcomes (c) OCI O
SO8 Fines and penalties for non-compliance with laws and regulations (c) OCI O
SO9, SO10 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities 16–23 O
OG10 Significant disputes with local communities and indigenous peoples (c) OCI O
OG11 Number of sites that have been decommissioned and sites that are in the process (c) OCI O
OG12 Extent and impact of involuntary resettlement (c) OCI O
OG13 Number of process safety events, by business activity 26 O
Product Responsibility
PR DMA Disclosure of management approach (c) OCI O
PR1 Life cycle assessment for health and safety impacts of products/services (c) OCI O 1 HS4
PR2 Non-compliances with health and safety impact requirements for products/services (c) OCI O 1 HS4
PR3 Product and service labeling requirements for significant products (c) OCI O 8 HS4
PR4 Non-compliances with product and service labeling requirements (c) OCI O 8 HS4
PR5 Customer satisfaction practices (c) OCI O
PR6 Marketing communications compliance programs (c) OCI O HS4
PR7 Non-compliance with marketing communications regulations/voluntary codes (c) OCI O
PR8 Substantiated customer privacy complaints and data loss (c) OCI O 1
PR9 Fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations re: products and services (c) OCI O
OG14 Volume of biofuels produced and purchased meeting sustainability criteria (c) OCI OGRI  
IndicatorGeneral Description Page(s)GRI 
StatusUNGC  
Principle(s)IPIECA  
IndicatorGRI CONTENT INDEX
Page(s)
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   56 7/1/15   3:45 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   58 7/1/15   4:35 PM57Engagement Summary
Scope:• Whether the report is presented fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with GRI G3.1 including the Oil and Gas  
  Sector Supplement guidelines.
• Confirmation of Hess’ self-declared GRI Application Level.• Confirmation that the report meets the common elements of the IPIECA/API reporting requirements.
Reporting Criteria:The Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G3.1 of the Global Reporting Initiative (including the Oil and Gas Sector 
Supplement) and the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA) – Oil & Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting, 2nd Edition, 2010
Assurance Standard:ERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000) Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information
Assurance Level: Limited assurance
Respective responsibilities:Hess is responsible for preparing the Report and for the collection and presentation of the information within it.  ERM CVS’s responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities performed and exercising our professional judgementERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was engaged by Hess Corporation (Hess) to provide assurance in relation to the 2014 
Corporate Sustainability Report (the Report). 
Our conclusions
Based on our assurance activities, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the report is not fairly presented, in al l material respects, 
with the reporting criteria.  
GRI application level and IPIECA reporting requirements
We conclude that the Application Level A+ as stated on page 6 and based on the GRI Content Index on page 54 of the Report is co nsistent 
with the GRI criteria for this Application Level. We also confirm that the report meets the IPIECA/API reporting requirements.
Our assurance activities
A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and assurance specialists performed the following activities: 
• A review of external media reporting relating to Hess to identify relevant sustainability issues in the reporting period.
• Interviews with relevant staff to understand Hess sustainability strategy, policies and management systems.• Interviews with relevant staff to understand and evaluate the data management systems and processes (including IT systems and  internal  
   review processes) used for collecting and reporting the information.• Visits to production and drilling sites in Utica, Ohio, the Tioga Gas Plant in North Dakota, and the Baldpate platform in the  Gulf of Mexico,  
   USA to verify the source data and review sustainability management systems.• An analytical review of the year end data submitted by all sites included in the consolidated 2014 group data.• A visit to Hess Exploration and Production office in Houston, Texas to review the data from all sites, the consolidation proce ss and the 
   results of the internal data validation process. • Reviewing selected evidence related to the design, information collection, and production of the Report in accordance with GR I  
   requirements.• Reviewing the presentation of information relevant to the scope of our work in the Report to ensure consistency with our findi ngs, including  
   the results of ERM CVS separate engagement providing verification of the Hess 2014 CDP submission.
The limitations of our engagement
The reliability of the assured data is subject to inherent uncertainties, given the available methods for determining, calculat ing or estimating 
the underlying information. It is important to understand our assurance conclusions in this context.
Our Observations
We have provided Hess with a separate detailed management report. Without affecting the conclusions presented above, we have th e 
following key observation:  
•  Hess’ restructuring now means that the focus for collecting and managing HSE data for the purposes of annual reporting has shif ted from 
the Woodbridge, New Jersey office to the E&P function in Houston, Texas. This change has highlighted the need for additional use r guidance 
and instruction to be implemented to ensure the ongoing consistency of reporting and review of annual GRI/IPIECA performance da ta from 
operations.
ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that ERM CVS conducts for clients is solely related to independent assurance act ivities and auditor training. Our processes are designed and 
implemented to ensure that the work we undertake with clients is free from bias and conflict of interest. ERM CVS and the staff that have undertaken work on this assurance exercise provide no 
consultancy related services to Hess Corporation in any respect.ERM Certification and Verification Services, London
www.ermcvs.com
Email: post@ermcvs.com
INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT
Jennifer Iansen-Rogers Partner, Head of Report Assurance27 June 20152014 Corporate Sustainability Report
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   57 7/1/15   3:45 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   59 7/1/15   4:35 PMSustainability
•  CDP 
- S&P 500 Leadership Index - S&P 500 (#1 in Energy Sector)
•  Dow Jones Sustainability Index North 
America
•   Corporate Responsibility Magazine   
100 Best Corporate Citizens
•  Newsweek  Green Rankings 
- U.S. Energy Sector (#1)
•  STOXX Global ESG Leaders Index
•  MSCI ESG Indexes
- MSCI Global Sustainability Indexes- MSCI Global SRI Indexes- MSCI KLD 400 Social Index
•  Corporate Knights’ Global 100 Most 
Sustainable Corporations
•  Environmental Investment Organization 
Environmental Tracking Carbon Rankings
- Global 800- North America 300Workforce
•  Workforce Diversity for Engineering &  
IT Professionals  magazine’s Top 50 Employers
•  Woman Engineer Magazine ’s Top 50 Employers  
List
•  Gas Processors Association Safety Award
•  North Dakota Safety Council Occupational Safety  
Merit Award
•  IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association 
for environmental and social issues 
• Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative• U.S. Oil and Gas Association•  International Association of Oil and Gas Producers
• Council on Foreign Relations• American Petroleum Institute•  Center for Strategic and International Studies• Center for Offshore Safety
• MIT Energy Initiative• Business Roundtable• U.S. Chamber of Commerce• Brookings Institute• Greater North Dakota ChamberAWARDS AND RECOGNITION
MEMBERSHIPS AND ASSOCIATIONS
Design: incdesign.com
79372he_txt_T_88P.pdf   58 7/1/15   3:45 PM 79372he_Web_LR.pdf   60 7/1/15   4:35 PMFor copies of our Environment, Health and Safety Policy, Corporate Social Responsibility Policy or Human 
Rights Policy, or for more information regarding our operations, please visit our website at hess.com.
We invite your questions, comments and suggestions regarding this report. To send us your questions or 
comments, or to request more information or additional copies of this report, please contact:
Vice President, 
Environment, Health and Safety  Hess Corporation 1501 McKinney Street Houston, TX 77010
You can also send us an email at sustainability@hess.com.
This report contains projections, future estimates, plans, 
expectations and other forward-looking statements, including information about sustainability goals and targets and planned social, safety and environmental policies, programs and initiatives. These statements reflect the company’s current views with respect to future events and the company’s performance. No assurance can be given that the development or continuation of any policy, program or initiative expressed in any forward-looking statement will be achieved, and actual results could differ materially from those expected for a number of reasons, including risk factors affecting the company’s business. A discussion of these risk factors is included in the company’s annual report of Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION
SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
The savings below are achieved when PCW 
recycled fiber is used in place of virgin fiber: 
112 trees preserved for the future322 lbs. water-borne waste not created 47,370 gallons wastewater flow saved 5,241 lbs. solid waste not generated 10,319 lbs. net greenhouse gases 
 (GHGs) prevented
78,988 BTUs energy not consumedSavings from the use of emission-free, 
wind-generated electricity:
5,244 lbs. GHG emissions not generated
Displaces this amount of fossil fuel:
5 barrels  of fuel oil unused
In other words your savings from the use of 
wind-generated electricity are equivalent to:
Not driving  5,190 miles or 
Planting 357 treesSandy Alexander Inc., an ISO 14001:2004 
certified printer with Forest Stewardship Council™ (FSC
®) Chain of Custody, printed 
the Hess Annual Corporate Sustainability Report with the use of renewable wind power resulting in nearly zero carbon emissions. This report was printed on FSC
®-certified Mohawk Options paper, a 
process-chlorine-free 100 percent post-consumer waste (PCW) paper manufactured entirely with 100 percent certified wind energy and containing 100 percent post-consumer recycled fiber.2014 Corporate Sustainability Report
79372he_Web_LR.pdf   61 7/1/15   4:35 PMCommunity and Social 
Performance
A review of corporate social 
responsibility as a way of doing business
www.hess.com/sustainability/communities 
-social-performance 
Climate Change and Energy
Balancing the world’s energy needs 
with cost-effective greenhouse gas emissions reduction policy
www.hess.com/sustainability/climate- 
change-energy Safety and Health
Aiming to get everyone, everywhere 
every day, home safe
www.hess.com/sustainability/safety-health 
Environment
Responsible management of our environmental footprint
www.hess.com/sustainability/environment Our People
Creating a company culture and high quality workforce that innovates, leads and learns
www.hess.com/careers/life-at-hess 
GRI Content Index
Performance against GRI G3.1 indicators
www.hess.com/sustainability/ 
sustainability-reports/GRI-Index Learn more at 
www.hess.com/sustainability
www.hess.com
79372he_Web_LR.pdf   62 7/1/15   4:35 PM