Environment, Health, Safety
and Social Responsibility 
2003 Report2003 OPERATING STATISTICS
Exploration Net Crude Oil and NGL Production 259,000 bbls/day
& Production Gross Crude Oil and NGL Production from operated fields 344,600 bbls/day (a)
Net Natural Gas Production 683,000 Mcf/day
Gross Natural Gas Production from operated fields 1,262,000 Mcf/day (a)
Total Net Barrels of Oil Equivalent Production 373,000 boed
Refining & Marketing Port Reading facility production rate 54,000 bbls/day
Gross HOVENSA refinery production rate 440,000 bbls/day (a)
Terminals throughput 423,000 bbls/day (a)
Owned and operated retail outlets year-end 2003 885
Net Refined Products Sold 419,000 bbls/day
(a)Gross operated production and throughput figures are used for data normalization for consistency with reported emissions.SCOPE OF REPORT
Amerada Hess Corporation is a leading global independent energy company, engaged in the exploration and produc-
tion of crude oil and natural gas, as well as in refining and marketing petroleum products, natural gas, and electricity.
This report covers the principal facilities and assets operated by Amerada Hess Corporation and its subsidiaries.
Information from HOVENSA, which has its own Board of Directors and policies, is not included in this report.Information and data pertaining to HOVENSA is available in our web-based report at www.hess.com. 
This report does not include data on oil and gas fields or marketing sites in which we have an equity interest but which
are operated by other companies. Data from new assets are included in this report but may be reported separately from Company totals. Emission data and other environmental metrics refer to gross figures from operatedfacilities. Company baselines are not adjusted to reflect material changes from acquisitions or divestitures. For copiesof the data referred to in this report in tabular format, please visit our web-based report at www.hess.com. 
The format of this report follows the framework of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). However, gaps may exist where
GRI reporting requirements are not applicable or are not reported for Amerada Hess operations. 
Our average number of employees in 2003 was approximately 11,481. Additional operating and financial data
are available in our 2003 Annual Report at www.hess.com. 
CONTENTS
1 Management Letter
3 Management of Environment, Health, and Safety at Amerada Hess5 Social Responsibility7 Health, Safety and Environmental Performance13 Stewardship14 Verification Statement
Cover — Terminal Operations – Recipients of the 2003 Chairman’s Safety Award1We are pleased to report that in 2003 substantial
progress was made in achieving our Environment,
Health, Safety and Social Responsibility goals. In this
report we highlight many of these successes and alsothe challenges that we face. 
In 2003, we achieved our best safety performance ever,
reducing our recordable injury rate by 25%. Althoughwe exceeded improvement targets for 2003, our com-mitment to the health and safety of our employees and contractors requires that we continue our campaignto improve our safety performance throughout our Company.
Considerable progress was also made towards achieving
our environmental commitments. In comparison to our2001 baseline, on a normalized basis we signiﬁcantlyreduced our emissions of oxides of sulfur and nitrogenby 42% and 36 % respectively. We also achieved our tar-
get for reduction of greenhouse gases. Although we didreduce our normalized emissions of volatile organiccompounds by 2% when compared to last year, we are1% above our 2001 target baseline.
This is the seventh year of our publishing an annual
report on our environmental, health and safety perform-ance and our third year of including discussion on oursocial responsibility initiatives. It is also the third yearwhere these reports and the underlying data have beenindependently veriﬁed by external auditors. We trustthat this report, in conjunction with the Company’sannual report and the data available on our website(www.hess.com), will provide insight into both our commitment and performance. We welcome your comments and suggestions. 
JOHN B. HESS
Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive OfﬁcerJ. BARCLAY COLLINS
Executive Vice President andGeneral CounselGERALD I. BRESNICK, Ph.D.
Vice President, Environment, Health and SafetyManagement 
LetterDrilling operations in Southeast Asia3GOVERNANCE
In order to provide consistent direction and support for
the Company’s Environment, Health, Safety and SocialResponsibility policies and programs, the HessLeadership Team, consisting of top executive ofﬁcers ofAmerada Hess, is engaged in establishing performanceexpectations and holding business units accountablefor their performance. Likewise, our performance inthese areas is reviewed routinely with the AuditCommittee of our Board of Directors. We have put inplace formal management systems, strengthened ourenvironmental, health and safety governance andCorporate audit program to help drive continuousimprovement. 
MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK – Ethical and sound
business conduct is essential in order to maintain ourreputation and performance as we expand and diversi-fy. Amerada Hess has in place a Business Practice Guidewhich provides our employees guidance and expecta-tions in regards to business ethics, corporate citizen-ship, contracting and labor practices, regulatory com-pliance, safety, and protection of the environment. In 2003, the Guide was revised to emphasize theCompany’s Values. One of our six key corporate values,
Social Responsibility, includes safeguarding the envi-ronment, protection of the health and safety of ouremployees and contractors and a commitment to thecommunities where we do business.
In 2003, we maintained nearly a quarter of our total oil
production and throughput from ISO14001 certiﬁedoperations. In addition, several business units are currently working towards ISO certiﬁcation.
ORGANIZATION – Technical support and functional
guidance is provided to our business units through cor-porate and business unit staff. A chart showing ourEnvironment, Health & Safety organization is presentedin our web-based report at www.hess.com.
We continue to work with other companies and exter-
nal groups, including various trade associations andprofessional societies, to advance our knowledge ofdeveloping worldwide Environment, Health, Safety andSocial Responsibility challenges. We have also devel-oped various internal task forces to foster knowledgesharing and assist business managers in addressing theobjectives established by the Company.Management of
Environment, Health,Safety and SocialResponsibilityHESS supported school in Indonesia5Building on our value of Social Responsibility, we 
continue to create a long-lasting, positive impact on the communities where we do business, acting responsi-bly towards human rights, labor, and societal issues wherever we operate. 
HUMAN RIGHTS – The Company is committed to
human rights and has a policy to accept and upholdthe principles contained in the Universal Declaration
of Human Rights within our sphere of inﬂuence. In
further support of our commitment, we endorsed theU.S. State Department’s Voluntary Principles on
Security and Human Rights , which promote security
and the protection of human rights by advocating precautionary risk assessments and encouraging inter-actions between public and private security providers.
We also continue to support the United Nations Global
Compact , which challenges businesses to adhere to 
ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor and the environment.
COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT – Our Company has a
long history of socially responsible community involve-ment and charitable contributions. In 2003, we provid-ed aid to earthquake victims in Algeria, and providededucational assistance in Brazil, Equatorial Guinea,Gabon, Thailand and Indonesia. We also began a majorprogram in Azerbaijan to improve the delivery of emer-gency medical care. Working with internationally 
recognized medical experts we are assisting in themodernization of emergency medicine through train-ing, supplies and hospital upgrades.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT – In 2003, we contin-
ued to engage in discussions with both internal andexternal stakeholders to maintain and improve key rela-tionships and reinforce transparency in our industry. Ata corporate level, we participated in communicationsand surveys with numerous socially responsible invest-ment groups. 
Through industry associations we participated in dia-
logue sessions with various stakeholder groups andnon-governmental organiz ations. In order to better
address stakeholder concerns in South East Asia, ourlocal area Business Unit implemented a regional SocialResponsibility program to identify issues as soon as possible in the business process so that issues can beaddressed and appropriate resources allocated.
EMPLOYEES – In response to concerns identiﬁed during
discussions with employees and via internal surveys, theCompany implemented a Leadership Development
Program, enhanced its performance management pro-gram, and launched a “Refining and MarketingUniversity” in order to manage career growth and helpprovide necessary skill sets to our employees.Social 
Responsibility6
Terminal operations – Jacksonville, FloridaHEALTH AND SAFETY
Our commitment to safety is grounded in our desire
that every employee return home after work safe and sound. One of our most important goals each year is to make significant improvements in our safety performance.
We established safety targets based on achieving top
quartile Occupational Safety and Health Administration(OSHA) recordable incident rate performance com-pared to our business unit peers, and matchingAmerican Petroleum Industry (API) performance for lostwork time incident rates based on API company wideaverages by 2005. 
Our Company achieved its safety objective for 2003.
This was accomplished across the board with all majorbusiness divisions achieving excellent improvements inperformance. We achieved a 25% Reduction in ourrecordable incident rate when compared to 2002 and a31% improvement in those incidents which resulted inlost time or restricted duty for our employees. We arealso very pleased to report that we experienced noemployee or contractor fatalities. All of our business units met their internal 2003 targets
and several Business Units achieved their 2005 objec-tives. We are, however, not satisﬁed with this improvedlevel of performance and are continuing to aggressive-ly address safety improvements. 
THE CHAIRMAN ’S AWARD FOR SAFETY EXCELLENCE
The Chairman’s Award for Safety Excellence was 
established in January 2003 to underscore that exem-plary health and safety performance is important toAmerada Hess and is an integral part of being a leading global independent energy company. The program recognizes individuals, teams, facilities andoperations for: 
•Outstanding health and safety performance, whether
it be on a absolute basis or for improvement; 
•Innovative ideas, programs, practices and manage-
ment systems; 
•Activities and initiatives that promote teamwork and
team spirit in protecting employees, contractors andcommunities. 
7Health, Safety 
and EnvironmentalPerformance00 01 024
2
1
0# cases per 100 em ployeesAHC OSHA Recordable 
Work place Injury 
Rate Performance
033
00 01 023
2
1
0# cases per 100 em ployeesAHC Lost Work Time 
& Restricted Duty Incident 
Rate Performance
03 00 01 0212
8
4
0LT/mmhrsAHC Lost Time Injuries 
Per Million Man Hours
03
8
For 2003, there were six selected ﬁnalists for the
award. The ﬁnalists were: 
1. Algeria SonaHess Gassi El Agreb Operations
who worked their third consecutive year with-out a Lost Time Injury. 
2. Equatorial Guinea Operations – which achieved
a 67% reduction in Recordable Injuries withouta single Lost Time Injury. 
3. Global Drilling Operations – which worked over
2 million person-hours, often in remote andinhospitable locations, with only one Lost Time Injury. 
4. HOVENSA – which achieved a 51% reduction 
in Recordable Injuries and a 33% reduction inLost Time Injuries while establishing a vital safety culture. 
5. Retail Division 1 – which achieved a system-wide
45% reduction in Recordable Injuries and a 60%reduction in Lost Time Injuries. 
6. Terminal Operations – which achieved a 73%
reduction in Recordable Injuries and a 91%reduction in Lost Time Injuries while movingfrom 3rd to 1st quartile performance whenmeasured against its peers. TERMINAL OPERATIONS 
WINS SAFETY AWARD
Terminal Operations was selected as the 2003 recipient
of the Chairman’s Award for Safety Excellence as aresult of their impressive safety improvement, their useof multiple improvement processes and their establish-ment of a sustainable safety culture. 9ENVIRONMENTAL 
PERFORMANCE
Amerada Hess recognizes that its operations will
impact the environment. We manage these impacts within our business as identiﬁed by both our environ-mental management systems and by our key stake-holders. The reporting metrics discussed herein presentour performance related to these metrics over time,and in relation to our performance targets in the pur-suit of continuous improvement. 
GLOBAL CLIMATE CHANGE – The combustion of fossil
fuels is responsible for emissions of greenhouse gases(GHG), which have been linked to global climatechange. The full impacts of climate change are stilluncertain but are believed to have an increasing impactupon both terrestrial and marine ecosystems as well ashuman activity such as agriculture and forestry. TheGHG of particular relevance to our operations are car-bon dioxide (CO
2), and methane (CH4).
Within our operations, there are two major sources of
GHG emissions: combustion of hydrocarbon fuels forpower generation and ﬂaring of associated gas. Minorsources include fugitive emissions from equipment suchas ﬂanges and valves, venting emissions from storagevessels, and emissions from loading and unloadingoperations. 
We have set a company wide target of reducing our
normalized greenhouse gas emissions by 5% by 2005.On a normalized basis, we have reduced our GHG emis-sions by 6% in comparison to our 2001 baseline.
However, as we expand our operations, we acknowl-edge that our absolute atmospheric emissions willincrease and we are evaluating options to sustain orreduce our overall emissions footprint. 
With increasing global focus on the issue of climate
change and the introduction of both regulatory andvoluntary carbon trading initiatives, we recognized thatthere is a need to improve our GHG reporting. In 2003we began work on a revised GHG Reporting Protocol.This protocol will better deﬁne our inventory and itsboundaries. It will also allow us to monitor our emis-sions according to our equity share in both operatedand non-operated facilities, thus aligning our GHGreporting with our ﬁnancial reporting practices. We arealso developing a standardized reporting methodologyfor the entire corporation based on the protocol. 
ACIDIFICATION AND SMOG – Acidiﬁcation occurs
when certain gases, mainly the oxides of sulfur (SOx)and nitrogen (NOx), are emitted to the atmosphere and react to enhance the natural acidity of precipita-tion. This precipitation, commonly termed “acid rain,”can impact animals, plants, water bodies, and man-made structures.
Smog, or ground level ozone, is formed by complex
chemical reactions between Volatile OrganicCompounds (VOC) and NOx in sunlight. The build-up ofground level ozone can have human health effects,cause damage to vegetation, and cause poor visibility.0
US lbs/1000 bbl 
01 02 0320000
15000
10000
5000
0US TonsAHC NOx Emissions  
4080120
Actual US Tons  
Normalized US lbs/1000 bbl
(excluding Equatorial Guinea)AHC Greenhouse Gas 
(CO2 Equivalent) Emissions
Actual US Tons  
Normalized US lbs/1000 bbl(excluding Equatorial Guinea)0
US tons/1000 bbl
01 02 030US tons816
12
46000000
4500000
3000000
01500000As with greenhouse gases, the predominant source of
SOx and NOx from our operations are power genera-tion and ﬂaring. Major sources of VOC emissions areﬂaring, venting and hydrocarbon loading operations.
We made further progress in reducing our NOx and
SOx emissions in 2003 compared to our 2001 baseline.
On a normalized basis we decreased our company-wide
NOx emissions by 36% and SOx emissions by 42%. 
Despite a normalized reduction of 2% between 2002
and 2003, VOC emissions have increased slightly (1%)from our 2001 baseline on a normalized basis. 
AQUEOUS IMPACTS – Our operations have the poten-
tial to impact water resources. Offshore, we undertakea number of activities that can affect the marine envi-ronment, such as the discharge of oil and chemicals inproduced water or the use of seawater for re-injection.Similarly, onshore operations may result in dischargesto rivers and also have the potential to impact groundwater supplies. We are cognizant of these impacts and have established controls to minimize theseimpacts and metrics to help us monitor and improveour performance.
Oil Spills – Our overall goal is to achieve zero spills.
However, oil spills and releases to the environment dooccur accidentally. We track our company-wide spillperformance in order to identify common causes andto plan mitigation measures accordingly.In 2003, we experienced 184 spills which totaled 1,325
barrels of oil. The overall number of spills and spill vol-ume increased as compared to 2002. Customer related
spills at retail stations account for 40% of spill inci-dents, while spills at onshore production locations inthe United States accounted for the greatest volume(89%). All spills were promptly addressed and the vastmajority of spilled material was recovered and properly
disposed of.
Controlled Discharges – We generally improved our
performance regarding permitted discharges to waterduring 2003. 
At the Port Reading facility, we continued our excellent
discharge performance, with actual concentrations of discharged materials substantially below permittedlevels.
The volume of oil discharged in produced water at off-
shore facilities decreased to 2,346 barrels (bbls) in 2003compared to 2,534 bbls in 2002. The company-wide oilin water concentration remained stable at 15 parts permillion in 2003 and 2002 compared to 21 ppm in 2001.
The overall volume of drilling mud and cuttings dis-
charged decreased  in 2003. However, the amount of oil discharged with the cuttings increased. 
100
US lbs/1000 bbl 
01 02 0375000
60000
45000
30000
0US TonsAHC VOC Emissions  
375500
Actual US Tons  
Normalized US lbs/1000 bbl
(excluding Equatorial Guinea)15000250
125
0
US lbs/1000 bbl 
01 02 036000
4000
2000
0US TonsAHC SOx Emissions  
203040
10
Actual US Tons  
Normalized US lbs/1000 bbl
(excluding Equatorial Guinea)11RESOURCE USE – Our operations and design decisions
ultimately have an effect on the use of raw materialsand natural resources, from the kinds of drilling mudused to materials chosen for valves, casing, pipelinesand the construction of rigs and installations. Materialselection, re-use, recycling or the use of alternatives isa consideration when making these decisions.
Although the waste we produce is a function of our
overall level of activity, it is an indirect measure ofresource usage. Resource usage can be minimized byboth the optimum use of non-renewable resourcessuch as fuel and the sustainable use of renewablesources such as wood, wind and solar power. In addi-tion to reducing the amount of materials used in ouroperations, we reduce waste through re-use of drillingchemicals and by recycling ofﬁce paper and packaging.We are initiating the collection of water and energy use data in order to better assess our overall resource usage performance and to facilitate futuretarget setting.
Waste – In our 2002 report we estimated a total of
86,335 tons of waste handled. Waste disposal fromconstruction at our Seminole Gas Plant and remedia-tion projects in the Permian Basin had signiﬁcantlyaffected this total. In addition, quantiﬁcation errors inour solid waste inventory also overestimated our wastehandling. Following re-evaluation, our 2002 totalwaste is calculated at 69,273 tons. In 2003 the overall
quantity of waste decreased by 25% to 51,896 tons. Ofthese, 45,049 tons (87%) were recycled. Disposal byincineration, landfarming and landﬁll amounted to6,847 tons. 
In addition, we revised our waste reporting practices
during 2003 to differentiate between wastes consideredhazardous and non-hazardous. Approximately 1% ofthe waste handled in 2003 was considered hazardous. 
In Algeria, our metal recycling campaign continued
with 1,400 tons of scrap metal recovered and recycled.Since Amerada Hess began operations in 2001 we haverecycled over 5,000 tons of scrap metal. 
EXCEEDANCES AND ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS –
Company policy has long stressed our fundamental
commitment to comply with applicable environment,health and safety laws and regulations. Although full compliance is an operational goal, exceedances of permitted levels can occur, as do citations from regulatory authorities.
In 2003, Amerada Hess had a total of 875 regulatory
inspections and received 60 violations. The amount of ﬁnes paid in 2003 were reduced by 87% comparedto 2002.0
Concentration ( ppm) 
01 02 033500
2500
1500
500
0Volume (bbls)Oil in Produced 
Water Discharges
Volume of oil discharged (bbls)
Concentration of oil in produced water ( ppm)101525
520
0
Volume (bbl)
00 01 02210
140
70
0No. S pills AHC Number & 
Volume of S pills  
Total Volume bbl
Total S pills20006000
034000HESS EXPRESS retail facility, Bronx, New York13FUEL QUALITY – As part of our commitment to prod-
uct stewardship, we demand good environmental per-formance in addition to excellent fuel performancefrom our products. Emissions from the consumption ofgasoline and other fuels can impact air quality. Ourgasoline is considerably cleaner than the United Statesnational averages for sulfur and benzene content, andour reformulated gasoline is signiﬁcantly cleaner thanrequired by federal standards.
Gasoline and diesel fuels sold in the United States will
be required to have reduced sulfur content by 2004and 2006. Amerada Hess is preparing for these reduc-tions and will be in compliance with sulfur reductionregulations.
ALTERNATIVE ENERGY – Amerada Hess is a principal
shareholder of Nuvera Fuel Cells — a leading companyin the commercial development of fuel cell technologyranging from power modules that support distributedgeneration and commercial hydrogen industries, tofuel cell stacks and on-board fuel processors for theautomotive industry. We believe that the developmentof fuel cells, which convert hydrogen into electricitythrough a process that results in water as the wastematerial, offers signiﬁcant future opportunities for efﬁcient, environmentally benign power sources.ENERGY EFFICIENCY – Hess is supporting the develop-
ment of energy efﬁcient technologies through our HessMicrogen subsidiary. Hess Microgen cogeneration unitsgenerate both electrical and thermal power from thesame energy source. The cogeneration units are moreefﬁcient than central power stations and subject tolower transmission losses resulting in a greater percentage of fuel conversion into usable energy. In addition to natural gas fueled units, systems havebeen developed to run on methane derived from live-stock facilities such as dairy farms. In regards to airemissions, the units are capable of meeting some ofthe lowest emission standards in the world, includingthose of the California South Coast Air QualityManagement District. 
BIODIVERSITY – The Company’s operations are man-
aged to avoid or minimize impacts on biodiversity. Thisincludes undertaking environmental baseline surveysand environmental impact assessments prior to thestart of our operations, the introduction of appropriateoperational controls and ongoing monitoring, and siterestoration activities either during or following the ces-sation of operations.Stewardship14Veriﬁcation Statement
VERIFICATION OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE – ERM
Certiﬁcation & Veriﬁcation Services (ERM CVS) was commis-sioned by Amerada Hess Corporation (AHC) to undertake ver-iﬁcation of its 2003 Environment, Health, Safety and SocialResponsibility Report (the Report). This is the second year thatwe have been engaged in this role. The objective of the veri-ﬁcation was to establish that the information presented is areliable representation of AHC’s performance and programsduring 2003.
The veriﬁcation scope included both data and representations
made by AHC in the 2003 Report and relevant linked informa-tion provided by the company at their web site. TheManagement of AHC is responsible for the information con-tained within the Report.
VERIFICATION APPROACH – ERM CVS veriﬁcation proce-
dures and methodologies have been developed with dueregard to the requirements of international standards govern-ing environmental management systems, and general princi-ples of auditing. Our veriﬁcation approach involves detailedchallenge of the contents of the report, random chain of cus-tody audits for data, selected interrogation of both sourceand consolidated data, and interviews with corporate andoperational staff with responsibilities for data managementand report content. 
Substantiation of a sample of statements and claims made in
the Report has been undertaken and evidence sought wheredeemed appropriate. Our activities also included interroga-tion of source data at the following Amerada Hess operations:SonaHess Operations at Gassi El Agreb in Algeria, NorthDakota Production Operations and the Tioga Gas Plant, theEdgewater Terminal and a retail station in New Jersey. Wewere not able to witness any stakeholder engagement pro-grams in action and our review was based on interviews withcorporate personnel responsible for developing social strate-gies and ﬁeld personnel responsible for speciﬁc activities, forexample, actions associated with two gas projects in SouthEast Asia.
OPINION & RECOMMENDATIONS – In the opinion of ERM
CVS, and based on the sample of data reviewed, the 2003environment, safety and health data are provided with a rea-sonable level of reliability and we are not aware of the exclu-sion of any material issues. The assertions, claims and state-ments made by AHC are supported by evidence obtained dur-ing the veriﬁcation process and we are not aware of any mis-statements made. Where ERM CVS uncovered errors in datawe have conﬁrmed that these errors have been corrected byAHC. The Corporate EHS team at AHC introduced signiﬁcant
changes to reporting structures in 2003 and these are judgedto provide a sound basis for future reporting while yet to befully implemented. It is clear from our review that these devel-opments will continue to have an affect on improving the reli-ability, completeness and accuracy of information provided infuture years.
ERM CVS has provided a recommendations report to AHC
linking trends in our ﬁndings to root causes associated withinternal processes. Our key recommendations to AHC build onthose provided by ERM CVS previously and the work that AHChas accomplished this year. These are as follows:
• Signiﬁcant attention must be paid to ensure that data
delivered to corporate meets the reporting expectations-actions will need to be focused on developing clear deﬁni-tions for data inclusion and improving the understanding ofthese across the varied activities of AHC. Actions taken herewill improve the completeness, reliability and comparability ofdata in the longer term.
• Internal assurance processes need to be more clearly
deﬁned and communicated to ensure that practices are efﬁ-cient and robust at each level of checking.
• Further attention on air emissions data is required,
speciﬁcally reporting of GHG emissions to ensure that compa-rable and complete inventories are reported.
• A program of increased stakeholder engagement is
recommended to ensure that both internal and external viewsregarding AHC’s EHS&SR performance are understood.
• Activities AHC has undertaken to establish its internal
position with respect to social issues will require further atten-tion to ensure effective implementation and thus wider cover-age in future reports.
• A review of the completeness and materiality of per-
formance indicators, taking into account both internal andexternal stakeholder views on the relevance and importanceof information presented.
• AHC management should consider increased inclusion
of data associated with activities upon which they may have inﬂuence as opposed to direct control, for example,greenhouse gas emissions associated with non-operatedproduction.
• The increased collation of local data via the global
reporting system should be examined with a view to includ-ing more local information in the Report.
ERM Certiﬁcation and Veriﬁcation Services
LondonAugust 6th 2004FOR MORE INFORMATION
For copies of our Environment, Health and Safety Policy and our
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy, or for more information regard-ing our operations, please visit our website at www.hess.com. 
We invite your questions, comments and suggestions regarding this
report. To send us your questions or comments, or request more infor-mation or additional copies of this report, please contact:
Assistant Corporate Secretary
Amerada Hess Corporation1185 Avenue of the AmericasNew York, NY  10036
You can also send us an e-mail at ehs@hess.com.
The Fox River Coronado recycled paper used in this report contains
50 percent recycled fiber, including 30 percent post consumer wasteand meets or exceeds federal EPA guidelines for recycled paper. This product is manufactured to be consistent with the principles of sustainable forestry.
Design: Inc Design, www.incdesign.com1185 AVENUE OF THE AMERICAS
NEW YORK, NY 10036WWW.HESS.COM