2020 Sustainability ReportHESS VALUESHESS VALUES
Our purpose is to be the world’s most trusted energy partner. Hess Values set the 
framework and establish the ethical standards by which we conduct our business.
Integrity
People Performance
Value
CreationSocial
Responsibility
Independent
Spirit
REPORTING STANDARDS AND 
ASSURANCE
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) STANDARDS
This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: 
Core option. Our declaration of conformance with the GRI Standards has 
been reviewed and confirmed by our external verifier, ERM Certification 
and Verification Services. See the assurance statement on page 64.
UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 
COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS
This is our Communication on Progress in implementing 
the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. 
We welcome feedback on its contents.INDEX OF REPORTING 
INDICATORS
An index of our sustainability reporting indicators, including 
those from the GRI Standards, with cross reference to the 
Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, 
IPIECA (the global oil and gas industry organization for 
environmental and social issues) sector specific guidelines 
and Sustainability Accounting Standards Board oil and 
gas industry metrics, can be found at hess.com/ 
sustainability/sustainability-reports/GRI-Index . The index 
includes all indicators required for a GRI Standards Core 
report, as well as a number of additional indicators for 
which we are able to provide supporting information.
REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION
For copies of our Environment, Health and Safety Policy, Social 
Responsibility Policy or Human Rights Policy, or for more 
information regarding our operations, please visit our website at 
hess.com/sustainability/how-we-operate .
We invite your questions, comments and suggestions regarding this 
report. To send us your questions or comments, or to request more 
information or additional copies of this report, please contact:Vice President,
Environment, Health and Safety
Hess Corporation
1501 McKinney Street
Houston, TX 77010
You can also send us an email at sustainability@hess.com.INTEGRITY
We are committed to the highest level of integrity in all our relationships.
PERFORMANCE
We are committed to a culture of performance that demands and 
rewards outstanding results throughout our business.
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
We are committed to meeting the highest standards of corporate 
citizenship by protecting the health and safety of our employees, 
safeguarding the environment and creating a long lasting, positive 
impact on the communities where we do business.
INDEPENDENT SPIRIT
We are committed to preserving the special qualities and unique 
personality that have made us a successful independent enterprise.
VALUE CREATION
We are committed to creating shareholder value based on sustained 
financial performance and long term profitable growth.
PEOPLE
We are committed to attracting, retaining and energizing the best 
people by investing in their professional development and providing 
them with challenging and rewarding opportunities for personal growth.TABLE OF CONTENTS
1 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
55
12
21
272
MESSAGE FROM THE CEO
Our CEO’s view on building a sustainable 
enterprise
4
ABOUT HESS
Our company operations in brief
5
CREATING VALUE  
FOR SOCIETY
An overview of ways we deliver value for our 
stakeholders
6
APPROACH TO REPORTING
A description of our materiality assessment, 
reporting framework and boundaries
8
STRATEGY AND PROGRESS
A snapshot of our progress and path forward
12
HOW WE OPERATE
The values that define our expectations for 
sustainable management and performance
21
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
A review of social responsibility as our way of 
doing business27
SAFETY AND HEALTH
Aiming to get everyone, everywhere,  
every day, home safe
35
OUR PEOPLE
Creating an inclusive culture and high quality 
workforce that innovates, leads and learns
39
CLIMATE CHANGE  
AND ENERGY
Balancing the world’s growing energy needs 
with responsible greenhouse gas emissions 
management
43CARBON ASSET  
RISK ASSESSMENT
Evaluating sustainability risks 
and global scenarios in making 
strategic decisions
55
ENVIRONMENT
Responsible management of our  
environmental footprint
62
PERFORMANCE DATA
64
INDEPENDENT 
ASSURANCE STATEMENT
65
AWARDS AND 
RECOGNITIONTABLE OF CONTENTS
ON THE COVER
Offshore Operations, Gulf of Thailand
Note: Some photos that appear in this report were 
taken prior to the COVID-19 pandemic.2
Our longstanding commitment to sustainability supports our 
company’s purpose to be the world’s most trusted energy 
partner and guides our strategy and actions to create business 
and societal value. In keeping with our company values, we are 
focused on building a sustainable enterprise that helps meet 
the world’s energy needs in a safe, environmentally responsible, 
socially sensitive and profitable way. 
Our strategy has been – and continues to be – to grow our 
resource base, have a low cost of supply and sustain cash flow 
growth. Producing and enabling access to affordable, reliable 
energy is key to creating economic prosperity and raising standards 
of living across the globe, especially as the world begins to recover 
from the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
At the same time, the world is faced with the significant challenge 
of addressing climate change. Our strategy aligns with the energy 
transition needed to achieve the International Energy Agency's 
(IEA's) Sustainable Development Scenario, which assumes all 
the pledges of the Paris Agreement are met and projects oil and 
gas will still be 46% of the global energy mix in 2040. Our current 
asset portfolio is robust, and our pipeline of forward investments is 
projected to provide strong financial returns under the Sustainable 
Development Scenario.
We believe sustainability practices create value for the benefit 
of all stakeholders. Our commitment to sustainability starts with 
our Board of Directors and senior management and is reinforced 
at every level of our organization. Our Board of Directors is 
climate change literate and actively engaged in overseeing Hess’ 
sustainability practices. The Board’s Compensation Committee 
has tied executive compensation to advancing the company’s 
environmental, health and safety goals.
In 2020, we completed a review and update of our environment, 
health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy, 
beginning with a materiality assessment, and established new 
targets through 2025 to drive progress in high priority areas 
including climate change. The Board’s EHS Committee was actively 
involved in this process, approved the new targets and will continue 
to oversee management’s implementation. 
Our 2020 Sustainability Report shows how we are addressing 
sustainability issues and integrating sustainable business practices 
into our strategy, goals and daily operations. Several key areas are 
highlighted below, with detailed information in this report and on 
our company website at www.hess.com.
ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE
We see climate change as one of the greatest scientific challenges 
of the 21st century. We believe climate risks can and should be addressed while at the same time providing the safe, affordable 
and reliable energy necessary to ensure human welfare and global 
economic development in the context of the U.N. Sustainable 
Development Goals. We support the aim of the Paris Agreement 
and also a global ambition to achieve net zero emissions by 2050. 
We support a carbon price to encourage the investments needed 
to accelerate decarbonization across all sectors of the economy 
while keeping energy affordable. 
Our Board and senior leadership have set aggressive targets 
for greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reduction. In 2020, 
we significantly surpassed our five year targets to reduce 
Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity by 25% and flaring 
intensity by 50% from our operated assets – reducing GHG 
emissions intensity and flaring intensity by 46% and 59%, 
respectively, compared to 2014 levels. We recently announced 
our new five year GHG reduction targets for 2025, which are 
to reduce operated Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity 
by approximately 44% and methane emissions intensity by 
approximately 52% from 2017. These targets are designed to 
exceed the 22% carbon intensity reduction by 2030 in the IEA’s 
Sustainable Development Scenario, which is consistent with the 
Paris Agreement’s less than 2°C ambition. 
In addition, we are investing in technological and scientific advances 
designed to reduce, capture and store carbon emissions, including 
groundbreaking work being conducted by the Salk Institute to 
develop plants with larger root systems that according to the Salk 
Institute are capable of absorbing and storing potentially billions of 
tons of carbon per year from the atmosphere.
Our climate strategy and reporting are closely aligned with the 
recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) established by the G20 Financial Stability Board. 
Our efforts to support the transition to a low carbon economy and 
mitigate climate change in line with TCFD recommendations have 
been independently assessed by the Transition Pathway Initiative, 
and we were the only U.S. oil and gas company to be awarded a 
Level 4 star rating in their September 2020 report.
We understand that a substantive climate strategy requires 
companies to look beyond a five year timeframe. We have 
established an executive led taskforce to consider our medium 
and longer term climate strategy.
SAFETY
We work closely with our employees and contractors to promote 
a strong safety culture and continuously improve our performance. 
Since early 2020, a multidisciplinary Hess emergency response 
team has been overseeing our plans and precautions to reduce 
the risks of COVID-19 in our work environment.MESSAGE FROM THE CEO3
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTIn 2020, in the midst of the pandemic and the most active 
Atlantic hurricane season on record, our company achieved 
a 19% reduction in our workforce total recordable incident 
rate compared with 2019 driven by a decrease in contractor 
incidents, and a 50% reduction in our workforce lost time 
incident rate. We reached a five year low in our severe and 
significant safety incident rate, achieving a nearly 10% reduction 
from 2019. We also continued to improve our process safety 
performance in 2020 with zero Tier 1 process safety incidents.
The safety performance of our contractors, who represent 
approximately 70% of our total workforce hours, is critical 
to achieving our safety goals. In 2020, we progressed our 
engagement efforts with many of our contractors to ensure 
alignment on the standards expected in Hess operations and to 
work together on opportunities for improvement.
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 
Being a trusted energy partner means making a positive impact on the 
communities where we operate. Through our community investments, 
we strive to help address societal inequities in keeping with Hess 
Values and create opportunities with a particular focus on education 
and work skill development. In 2020, we  also provided financial and 
volunteer support for a variety of COVID-19 community relief efforts.
In Houston, we continued to invest in our LEAP (Learn, Engage, 
Advance, Persevere) educational program and related initiatives 
to support students in Houston’s underserved Magnolia Park 
and Second Ward communities, where we have contributed 
approximately $7.4 million since 2013. Over the next three years, 
Hess will invest $9 million to fund education programs and support 
services for children in three economically disadvantaged Houston 
communities – Magnolia Park, Second Ward and, starting in 2021, 
the nearby Third Ward neighborhood. Earlier this year, we donated 
$2 million to Houston’s emergency relief efforts following a severe 
winter storm that significantly impacted underserved communities 
already suffering from the economic effects of the pandemic.
In Guyana, Hess and our partners contributed more than  
$3 million in 2020 as part of ongoing efforts to build capacity in 
the local Guyanese economy as well as COVID-19 relief efforts. 
In Malaysia, we contributed more than 60,000 units of personal 
protective supplies in response to the pandemic including face 
masks, hand sanitizers and medical gloves to the country’s 
frontline workers, and donated approximately 4,000 meals 
to frontline workers and underserved communities. In North 
Dakota, for the third year in a row, we provided Hess toy trucks 
to every elementary school in the state together with a science, 
technology, engineering and math (STEM) curriculum designed by 
Baylor College of Medicine’s Center for Educational Outreach. 
We have endorsed or formally joined a number of international 
voluntary initiatives designed to advance transparency, 
environmental protection, human rights and good governance, 
including our continued support for the U.N. Global Compact and the Global Compact U.S. Network, which share best practices 
in sustainable business conduct across the private sector. 
We are also guided in our activities by the U.N. Sustainable 
Development Goals, which were considered as part of the 
development of our updated EHS & SR strategy.
PEOPLE  
Our success as a company depends on having a world class 
workforce and a culture defined by our values. In 2020, we 
continued to focus on making Hess a great place to work through 
quality leadership, learning and engagement, and diversity, equity 
and inclusion for all employees.
To foster employee engagement, our leadership team regularly 
shares strategic updates, explains the rationale for business 
decisions and listens to the views of our workforce through a robust 
employee communications program. In 2020, we increased our 
cadence of communications and leveraged new virtual platforms 
to help our workforce feel supported and connected in the midst of 
the pandemic and internal organizational changes as we reduced 
our workforce headcount to better align with activity levels.
As part of our commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion, Hess 
leaders began hosting a series of listening sessions in 2020 with 
small groups of underrepresented employees to better understand 
their experiences and shape our actions moving forward.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE 
DISCLOSURE
We see transparency in reporting as an important part of being 
a trusted energy partner and are proud to have been recognized 
by a number of leading sustainability organizations as an industry 
leader in our environmental, social and governance performance 
and disclosure. We have been publishing a sustainability report 
since 1997, which is prepared in accordance with the Core 
option of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. Our 
reporting aligns with a number of frameworks including oil 
and gas industry metrics from the Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board (SASB) and TCFD recommendations.
As we continue to execute our strategy, our Board, our leadership 
team and each of our employees will be guided by our Hess 
Values and our purpose. We want to thank our employees, 
communities, customers, business partners and investors for 
your ongoing support. Together, we are building a sustainable 
enterprise that makes a positive difference for all our stakeholders 
and the world around us.
John B. Hess 
Chief Executive Officer
June 20214
2020 Highlights
• In response to lower oil prices, we safely 
reduced activity in the Bakken from six 
operated rigs at the start of 2020 to one 
rig by June. Bakken 2020 net production 
averaged 193,000 barrels of oil equivalent 
per day, well above our original guidance 
and 27% above 2019 levels.
• Through the continued application of 
technology and Lean manufacturing 
techniques, we reduced our average 
drilling and completion costs in the 
Bakken to $6.2 million per well in 2020, 
down from $6.8 million in 2019. 
• On the Stabroek Block in Guyana, 
where Hess has a 30% interest, 2020 
was another outstanding year. Three oil 
discoveries during the year brought total 
discoveries on the block to 18. 
• In October, the estimate of gross 
discovered recoverable resources on 
the Stabroek Block was increased to 
approximately 9 billion barrels of oil 
equivalent with multibillion barrels of 
future exploration potential remaining.
• Production from the Liza Phase 1 
development on the Stabroek Block 
reached its nameplate capacity of 
120,000 gross barrels of oil per day in 
December 2020, and the Liza Phase 2 
development, with a capacity of 220,000 
gross barrels of oil per day, is expected 
to achieve first oil in early 2022. 
•  In September 2020, we sanctioned our 
third oil development on the Stabroek 
Block at the Payara Field, which will have 
a capacity of 220,000 gross barrels of oil 
per day and is expected to achieve first 
oil in 2024.
• In the Gulf of Mexico, the Esox-1 well was 
brought online as a low cost tieback to 
the Tubular Bells production facilities in 
February 2020, less than four months 
after discovery. Hess Corporation is a leading global independent energy company 
engaged in the exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas.
   
Note: For the purposes of this report, Hess Midstream LP is considered a subsidiary of Hess Corporation. Boundaries and restatements of data 
included in this report are discussed in the Approach to Reporting section.ABOUT HESS
 Hess Portfolio of Operations
EXPLORATION
Activities are focused on the Atlantic Margin and include nonoperated interests 
offshore Guyana and Suriname and both operated and nonoperated interests in 
the Gulf of Mexico.DEVELOPMENTS
Activities are focused on nonoperated developments on the Stabroek Block, 
offshore Guyana.MIDSTREAM
Assets operated by Hess Midstream LP include a natural gas processing plant, 
a rail loading terminal and associated rail cars, a crude oil truck and pipeline 
terminal, and crude oil and natural gas gathering systems, all in North Dakota.PRODUCTION 
Operated assets include the Bakken in North Dakota; Baldpate, Conger, Penn 
State, Stampede and Tubular Bells in the Gulf of Mexico; South Arne in Denmark 
and North Malay Basin in Malaysia. Nonoperated assets include the Liza Phase 1 
development offshore Guyana, the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area, 
Llano in the Gulf of Mexico and the Waha Concessions in Libya.331,000
Barrels of Oil Equivalent per Day 
Total Net Hydrocarbons Produced1,170
Million Barrels of Oil Equivalent 
Proved Reserves9.4
Years of  
Reserve Life
Production
Midstream
Developments
Exploration5
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTHess’ purpose is to be the world’s most trusted energy partner. We seek to help meet the world’s energy needs and address key 
challenges facing the world today, including climate change, and to create value for the benefit of all our stakeholders – our shareholders 
and business partners, our employees, the local communities and economies where we operate – which in turn benefits society at large. 
We believe our company is well positioned, with our low cost of supply and high return investments, to deliver strong performance under 
a wide range of market conditions. 
MAINTAINING FOCUS ON SOCIETY’S GREATEST CHALLENGES
We integrate sustainable business practices, corporate citizenship and environmental stewardship into our operations and long term 
strategy. Our sustainable business practices are guided by the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and our recently 
updated environment, health, safety and social responsibility strategy is aligned with the SDGs that are most relevant to our business (see 
pages 10–11). Producing and enabling access to affordable, reliable energy is key to creating opportunity and raising living standards 
across the globe. At the same time, the world is faced with the significant challenge of addressing climate change and achieving the energy 
transition to a lower carbon economy. We believe the oil and gas industry can play a vital role in helping to address these challenges.
We have significantly surpassed our aggressive 2020 targets for greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reductions and have set new 2025 GHG 
reduction targets that are consistent with the Paris Agreement’s less than 2°C ambition (see page 46). We remain committed to doing our part 
to limit GHG emissions while supporting sustainable global development and the transition to a lower carbon economy.CREATING VALUE FOR SOCIETY
Delivering Value for Our Stakeholders
The following are some of the primary ways Hess delivered value for our stakeholders in 2020.
We generate value through the jobs we create directly as 
well as those we support indirectly – both in our supply chain 
and in the broader economy, where the energy we produce is 
essential to industries across the globe. We extend our high 
ethical and safety standards throughout our supply chain by 
requiring suppliers and contractors to abide by our Code of 
Business Conduct and Ethics and our Voluntary Commitments 
regarding labor and human rights (see pages 19 and 35–37).
• 1,621 Hess employees globally
• $591 million in employee wages and benefits (U.S.)
• $2,800 million in total supplier spend across 3,400 
suppliers
•  60% of employees in underrepresented groups reached 
through Hess VOICES engagement sessions with senior 
leadersWorkforce
Hess is committed to delivering long term value to our 
shareholders. We continue to successfully execute our long 
term strategy of disciplined capital allocation, focusing 
only on low cost, high return opportunities, while investing 
in our people and business. Furthermore, our efforts to 
lower our costs and our emissions intensity are aligned 
with the energy transition needed to achieve long term 
sustainable development (see page 46).
•  $309 million in dividends paid to investors
• Three year total shareholder return first among peers (For 
peer list, see page 34 of Hess’ 2021 proxy statement.)Shareholders
We contribute value to society at large through the direct 
economic value we generate, the affordable energy we 
produce and our commitment to operate responsibly and 
advance sustainable development (see pages 10–11, 21–25, 49).
• $2,039 million in capital and exploration expenditures
• $388 million in royalties and other payments
• $11 million in social investments, including $5 million 
going toward the Salk Institute’s Harnessing Plants 
Initiative research and development programSocietyOur community investments are designed to make long 
lasting, positive impacts on the communities where we 
operate. We seek to develop the local workforce to enable 
upward mobility into higher paying jobs in our industry and 
supply chain (see pages 19, 24–25, 36).
• $5 million in social investments directed toward 
communities in Louisiana, North Dakota and Texas
• $3 million by our joint venture in support of capacity 
building initiatives in Guyana
• 20,000 hours of volunteering by our workforce, with the 
majority in Texas
•  97% local nationals employed in Denmark and 91% in 
Malaysia
• 92% of our total supplier spend was on purchases 
made within the same country in which we were doing 
businessCommunities6
In this report, we provide descriptions of 
Hess’ strategy and 2020 performance 
regarding material economic, social 
and environmental issues. Our annual 
report, U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission Form 10-K filing and 
proxy statement detail our financial and 
governance information and can be found 
on our website.
Additional sustainability and investor 
information is available at hess.com/
investors
REPORTING STANDARDS
This report was prepared in accordance 
with the Core option of the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards.  
Our reporting is also informed by:
• The Sustainability Reporting Guidance 
for the Oil and Gas Industry, which was 
jointly developed by IPIECA (the global 
oil and gas industry organization for 
environmental and social issues), the 
American Petroleum Institute and the 
International Association of Oil & Gas 
Producers
• The United Nations (U.N.) Global 
Compact’s Ten Principles
• Recommendations from the Task 
Force on Climate-Related Financial 
Disclosures 
• Oil and gas industry metrics from the 
Sustainability Accounting Standards 
Board (SASB)
• Key external environmental, social and 
governance ratings and scorecards
 An index of GRI, IPIECA, SASB and U.N. Global 
Compact reporting indicators is available at 
hess.com/sustainability/sustainability-
reports/gri-index
MATERIALITY
We determined the content for this 
report by applying the GRI’s reporting 
principles; for example, we considered our 
operations and performance in the wider 
context of sustainability issues as well as ensured stakeholder inclusiveness and 
completeness of information. Consistent 
with the GRI Standards’ materiality 
guidance, we identified and prioritized 
new and emerging issues important to 
our stakeholders. Engagement with our 
stakeholders – which include employees, 
suppliers, customers, communities, 
shareholders, government bodies, 
nongovernmental organizations, industry 
peers and academics – enables us to 
strengthen our license to operate and brings 
increased focus to our transparency goals.
In 2020, we completed an updated 
materiality assessment, facilitated by third 
party experts, to help us prioritize the 
key sustainability topics most relevant 
to our company. The assessment was 
consistent with approaches and guidance 
provided by leading standards bodies, 
including GRI, IPIECA and the International 
Organization for Standardization; it also 
considered the SASB materiality profile for 
the oil and gas industry as an additional 
reference point. 
The prioritization process helped us to 
determine the top eight material issues, 
which were then used to develop focused 
initiatives aimed at driving continuous improvement in our environment, health, 
safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) 
strategy for the next five years. The 
materiality assessment and strategy 
development effort is described more fully 
in the section Strategy and Progress (see 
pages 10–11). While these eight topics will 
be the focus of our strategic sustainability 
actions through 2025, many of the other 
relevant topics included in our materiality 
assessment are still important to our 
stakeholders and our company and will 
continue to be addressed in our business 
processes and external reporting.
Based on the materiality assessment, the 
eight most material sustainability issues 
for our company are as follows:
• Climate Related Risk and Greenhouse 
Gas (GHG) Emissions
• Community and Stakeholder 
Engagement
• Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
• Emergency Preparedness and 
Response
• Occupational Health and Safety
• Process Safety and Release Prevention
• Supply Chain and Contractor 
Management
• Water Management
These material issues have not only 
informed our forward looking EHS & SR 
strategy, but have also helped to define 
the boundaries of this report.
As has been our practice, we plan 
to continue annual, document based 
assessments of key stakeholder 
perspectives and Hess’ operational and 
regulatory risks to validate our top material 
issues for our sustainability reporting 
and strategy.
 See reporting boundaries for each of these 
issues at hess.com/sustainability/approach-
to-reporting/boundaries-for-material-issuesAPPROACH TO REPORTING
Liza Unity Construction, Singapore7
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTBOUNDARY SETTING
Included within the scope of this report are 
the facilities and assets operated by Hess 
Corporation and our subsidiaries during 
calendar year 2020, unless otherwise 
indicated. Data presented are gross 
figures from operated facilities, unless 
specified otherwise.
We report GHG emissions on both 
an operated and equity share basis in 
accordance with the GRI G4 Oil and 
Gas Sector Supplement and the IPIECA 
Sustainability Reporting Guidance for the 
Oil and Gas Industry (4th edition, 2020), 
Module 3: Climate Change and Energy, 
as well as IPIECA’s 2016 report Estimating 
Petroleum Industry Value Chain (Scope 3) 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions. We report 
social investments for our operated assets, 
joint ventures and nonoperated facilities 
in which we hold a significant interest. 
Our workforce metrics include data for 
contractors whose hours we track.
See our expanded performance data at  
hess.com/sustainability/performance-data/ 
key-sustainability-metricsRESTATEMENTS
We believe our approach to restating data 
complies with the GRI Standards’ principle 
of comparability and specific disclosure 
regarding restatements of information, 
as well as IPIECA guidance. For GHG 
emissions, in cases of acquisitions and 
divestitures and other source ownership 
and control changes, we adjust our base 
year emissions if the change exceeds 
10% of the original base year emissions 
total. The exact timing of the adjustment 
depends on several factors, as described 
in the Hess GHG Inventory Protocol. We 
also review and adjust targets included as 
part of our annual incentive plan formula 
to account for divestitures as needed. In 
2017 and 2018, this included restating 
our targets and associated annual metrics 
for severe safety and environmental 
incident rates to account for the Permian, 
Equatorial Guinea and Utica divestitures.
Access the Hess GHG Inventory Protocol at  
hess.com/sustainability/climate-change-energyINTERNAL QUALITY ASSURANCE
Our internal information systems promote 
the centralized collection of data from 
Hess operated and joint venture assets 
around the world. In order to evaluate 
accuracy and reliability, we conduct quality 
assurance/quality control reviews and 
validation of both aggregated and facility 
level data. Individual numbers in the charts, 
tables and text may not precisely sum to 
the total amounts shown due to rounding. 
All currency references in the report are in 
U.S. dollars.
EXTERNAL ASSURANCE
This report, including our sustainability 
data and self declared GRI “in accordance” 
status, was assured by ERM Certification 
and Verification Services (see page 64). This 
external review helps to ensure consistent 
and objective data collection and reporting 
of our sustainability performance.
In addition to providing assurance in 
relation to our sustainability report, ERM 
Certification and Verification Services also 
conducts a separate verification of the 
GHG emissions data provided in the report 
and in our CDP Climate Change response.
Drilling Operations, North Dakota8
STRATEGY AND PROGRESS 
FINAL PROGRESS REPORT ON 2020 GOALS
Our environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy is designed to improve our understanding and management 
of nontechnical risks in our day-to-day operations while addressing the material sustainability issues facing Hess and the oil and gas 
industry at large. Following is a final progress report on the priority areas and goals established in 2015. The goals and targets for our 
most material sustainability topics through 2025 are shown on pages 10–11.
Category Goals for 2020END 2020 
STATUSDISCUSSION  
(PAGE #)
Regulatory 
AssuranceRevisit the draft compliance standard as part of the Hess Operational Management System (HOMS) streamlining exercise; 
continue to conduct Tier II assurance activities on routine, high volume compliance obligations in 2020*14, 28, 61
Continue providing our assets with routine updates and discussions on emerging regulatory risks and changes through the 
use of existing communication methods and operating rhythms in 2020*17, 61
Transparency  
in Business 
ConductContinue to refine our sustainability disclosures to align with stakeholder expectations in 2020 6–7, 40
Improve our third party due diligence policy and enterprise procedures to enhance coverage and reduce redundancies; 
improve and diversify the compliance training curriculum in 202016
Supply Chain and 
Contractor 
ManagementContinue to deepen relationships with strategic suppliers focused on mutual collaboration; further revise, create and 
implement policies for supplier relationship management; develop category strategies that consider potential emissions 
reductions in 2020 and beyond18–19
Management 
SystemsDevelop a framework for further integrating Lean and innovation into the Hess culture, including revamping and expanding 
the suite of training and coaching tools to include Lean and innovation, training new embedded Lean and innovation leaders 
and further improving the skills and effectiveness of current embedded Lean leaders; continue to use a structured Lean 
approach to take out unnecessary work and foster creative thinking and innovation in 2020 and beyond16
Continue progressing the EHS global standards effort across all assets to meet the 2021 target for full implementation 14
Monitor strategic actions from the 2020 EHS & SR strategy through the end of the year; develop an updated EHS & SR strategy, 
including the next set of strategic initiatives and forward looking goals, based on the 2019–2020 materiality assessment*8–11
Social 
Responsibility 
StrategyConsider avenues for further aligning our social responsibility strategy with applicable United Nations Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs); assess the availability of tools or metrics to measure the impacts of our investments on the SDGs in 2020 
and beyond* 10–11, 24–25
Community and 
Stakeholder 
EngagementIdentify communities in areas of operation most severely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and pursue engagement or 
investment opportunities to mitigate health and economic impacts; maintain the asset retirement obligation program in North 
Dakota; identify opportunities for social investment in Guyana focused on public health and education in 2020 and beyond*24–25
Social Risk 
ManagementParticipate in sector specific and broader industry workshops and symposiums on human rights best practices; implement 
learnings in operated assets deemed as higher risk in 2020 and beyond*23–24
Develop an enterprisewide compliance training module on human rights in 2020* 23–24
Continue confirming inclusion of human rights clauses and alignment with Hess policies in contracts in 2020 and beyond* 19
Process Safety  
and SpillsContinue reinforcement of critical maintenance compliance through our annual incentive plan metric in 2020* 30–31
Continue bow tie program implementation at our North Malay Basin and Denmark assets; commence rollout of the 
electronic Management of Change system at selected operated assets in 2020*30
Continue collaboration with industry groups on a set of process safety fundamentals in 2020* 27
Through 2022, focus competency efforts on continued implementation of local competency programs and processes at our 
operated assets; beginning in 2022, restart efforts to build a standardized enterprisewide approach to competency, assurance and 
learning (CAL), define safety critical job profiles across the enterprise and integrate CAL with HOMS and our learning 
management system*28
Achieve a 10% reduction from our 2019 actual severe and significant environmental incident rate in 2020 57–58
Occupational 
Health and SafetyAchieve a 10% reduction from our 2019 actual workforce total recordable incident rate in 2020 29
Achieve a 10% reduction from our 2019 actual severe and significant safety incident rate in 2020 29
Employment 
PracticesReinforce the Hess Way of Leadership by providing practical tools, training and guidance; evaluate the flexible working 
arrangements that were employed during the COVID-19 pandemic as part of normal work practice in 202036–37
Refine practices to assure inclusive, high quality succession planning; leverage technology to improve our hiring practices in 2020 35–37
Continue to focus on removing unconscious bias from employment practices, including recruiting and talent development, in 2020 35–36
Climate Risk 
ManagementContinue to evaluate carbon asset risk through portfolio specific scenario planning, using scenarios from the International 
Energy Agency’s 2019 World Energy Outlook, in 2020 and beyond*43–45
Climate Strategy, 
Metrics and 
TargetsContinue to pursue additional natural gas processing and compression capacity; continue planning for the Tioga Gas Plant 
turnaround and expansion project in 202050–51
Achieve a 25% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions intensity (tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per thousand barrels of 
oil equivalent (BOE)) by 2020, versus our 2014 baseline*46
Continue to make progress against the ONE Future sectoral 2025 targets* 51–52
Achieve a 50% reduction in flaring intensity (standard cubic feet per BOE) by 2020, versus our 2014 baseline* 46, 49
Water 
ManagementContinue to baseline the characteristics of emergent contaminants and chemicals considered “highly toxic” in 2020* 56
Complete the water data mapping exercise at North Malay Basin and a chemical analysis at South Arne in 2020; participate, 
through the National Alliance for Water Innovation, in the U.S. Department of Energy’s five year program for research and 
development and mapping of water treatment technologies in 2020 and beyond*55–56
* Denotes a key goal or target of our 2020 EHS & SR strategy.    = Goal achieved as planned   = Goal partially achieved or still in progress    = Goal not achieved as planned9
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTEHS & SR STRATEGY UPDATE
Our EHS & SR strategy drives value for Hess and helps to promote continuous improvement on the key sustainability issues important to 
our stakeholders.
In order to align our strategic sustainability actions with changes to the social, political, economic and regulatory landscape and evolving 
stakeholder expectations, we convened a multidisciplinary project team and steering committee in late 2019 to develop and oversee an 
update of our EHS & SR strategy, including establishing our next set of climate related goals and targets. We enlisted the help of third party 
experts to help facilitate the effort, which was conducted in three distinct phases in 2019 and 2020, as shown in the figure below. During key 
decision points throughout the process, we vetted the results with Hess leadership as well as our Board of Directors’ EHS Committee.
In Phase 1, we first developed an initial list of potential sustainability topics through desktop research. This research involved reviewing 
public reports and websites – including those of our oil and gas industry peers and other important stakeholders – that document key 
issues for our industry. Based on that research, we identified 26 sustainability topics relevant to our company. We then validated and 
prioritized the topics through a stakeholder engagement process, which included a survey and workshop to obtain internal viewpoints 
and interviews with a sampling of key external stakeholders. The internal stakeholders involved in the assessment included those in 
leadership positions or with expertise across the 26 sustainability topics. External stakeholders interviewed for the assessment included 
nongovernmental organizations and industry associations, as well as one of our key suppliers. 
After prioritizing the sustainability topics from Phase 1, we conducted a benchmarking assessment to review best practices from our 
peers, as well as supermajors and national oil companies, in Phase 2. The project team and steering committee reviewed the results of 
this assessment and carefully considered best practices in each area and what was fit for purpose for Hess.
After fully evaluating the results of Phases 1 and 2 of the project, we identified the eight most material sustainability topics for our 
company and slated those to be the focus of our EHS & SR strategic actions through 2025. In Phase 3, we convened internal subject 
matter experts in each area to review the results of the project to that point, to discuss alignment of these issues and potential actions to 
support the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and to help develop findings and recommendations to inform our 2025 EHS 
& SR strategy. These findings and recommendations were reviewed by senior management and the Hess Board’s EHS Committee. 
The following pages outline the new elements of our updated EHS & SR strategy and related goals and targets.Phase 1: Materiality assessment  
2nd Quarter 2019–2nd Quarter 2020
1.  Refreshed the universe of 
relevant sustainability issues:
• Reviewed Hess' risk registers
• Conducted a desktop analysis of:
 –Peers, supermajors, national 
oil companies; investors; 
regulators; nongovernmental 
organizations and industry 
groups
 –Sustainability reporting 
frameworks
2. Prioritized 26 material topics:
• Interviewed external stakeholders
• Conducted an internal stakeholder 
survey and workshop 
• Reviewed the results with the 
project team and steering 
committee, Hess leadership and 
the Board's EHS CommitteePhase 2: Benchmarking  
1st Quarter 2020–2nd Quarter 2020
1.  Performed a benchmark 
assessment of sustainability 
strategies and material topics:
• Included peers, supermajors, 
national oil companies
• Provided examples of 
benchmarking and scoring 
criteria
2.  Validated the benchmark 
assessment results:
• Reviewed Hess' strategic 
positioning on each of the topics 
with the project team and 
steering committee and Hess 
leadership
• Identified the eight most material 
topics based on the results of 
Phases 1 and 2Phase 3: Strategy development  
2nd Quarter 2020–4th Quarter 2020
1.  Conducted future focused 
discussions with cross functional 
Hess teams for eight material 
topics:
• Current state 
• Alignment with U.N. Sustainable 
Development Goals
• Desired future state, including 
potential goals, key performance 
indicators, commitments and 
position statements
2.  Developed findings and 
recommendations to enhance 
the EHS & SR strategy:
• Reviewed with the project team 
and steering committee, Hess 
leadership and the Board's EHS 
Committee10
STRATEGY AND PROGRESS
LOOKING AHEAD TO 2025
The strategic initiatives planned as a result of our EHS & SR strategy update represent a focused set of actions designed to drive progress 
and enhance the strategies already in place for our top eight material issues. These are not the sum of all activities that will drive continuous 
improvement in each of these areas, but are instead the specific areas targeted for improvement or to maintain or achieve leadership among 
our industry peers for each of our material issues. Our management approach, annual performance (including achievements and challenges 
in 2020) and forward plans for a broader set of issues relevant to our company and our stakeholders are described further in this report and 
on our website at hess.com/sustainability.
The table below summarizes the initiatives, goals and targets that we have established as part of our updated 2025 EHS & SR strategy and 
indicates their alignment with and support of the United Nations (U.N.) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Targets included as one of 
Hess’ annual incentive plan (AIP) performance metrics for 2021 are indicated with “AIP .”
Hess’ Material Issues  
& Relevant U.N. SDGsKey Actions to Enhance Hess’ EHS & SR Performance DISCUSSION  
(PAGE #)
Climate Related Risk and 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Enhance disclosure in 2021 regarding alignment with trade associations on climate related 
issues and position on public policies that would set a carbon price17–18, 48
Enhance data collection methodologies in 2021 to enable a direct linkage between the new 
enterprisewide climate related target and employee compensation39, 46
Align carbon pricing for internal processes in 2021 for decisions on significant new 
investments and scenario planning methodology15, 41, 44  
Strengthen governance and climate strategy oversight by continuing to foster climate literacy 
at the Board level and through a newly formed, executive led climate strategy taskforce in 
2021 and beyond41
Evaluate the feasibility of achieving net zero greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 2050 in 
2021 and beyond41 
Continue to look for opportunities for Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions and flaring reductions in 
2021 and beyond49–51  
Continue to support external climate initiatives such as ONE Future and The Environmental 
Partnership in 2021 and beyond51–52
QUANTITATIVE TARGETS:
• Reduce operated Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity by approximately 44% from 
2017 to 17 kilograms carbon dioxide equivalent per barrels of oil equivalent by 202546–47
• Reduce methane emissions intensity by approximately 52% from 2017 to an intensity of 
0.19% by 2025
• Continue to improve performance related to reducing methane emissions through ONE 
Future sectoral targets by 2025
• Achieve a 7% gross flaring rate from wells and pads, as reported to the North Dakota 
Industrial Commission, in 2021 (AIP)
Process Safety and Release 
Prevention
Enhance Tier II assurance through major accident event barrier health reviews in 202130
Integrate process safety fundamentals into safety training to increase process safety 
awareness by 202327
Complete the rollout of the electronic Management of Change system, where applicable, and 
the rollout of the electronic Permit to Work system across onshore assets, both by 202330 
QUANTITATIVE TARGETS:
• Achieve a 10% reduction from our 2020 actual loss of primary containment rate in 2021 
(AIP)30–31, 57–58
• Achieve 99% completion of all safety critical equipment maintenance and corrective 
work orders with performance standards in our work order system in 2021 (AIP)
Occupational Health and Safety
 Continue to elevate Hess’ safety culture by conducting an enterprisewide safety culture 
assessment and implementing updated safety leadership training by 202327–28
Evaluate emerging technologies and consider implementation into Hess’ standard operating 
practices in 2021 and beyond27–29  
QUANTITATIVE TARGETS:
• Achieve a 10% reduction from our 2020 actual workforce total recordable incident rate 
in 202129           
• Achieve a 10% reduction from our 2020 actual severe and significant safety incident 
rate in 2021 (AIP)11
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Production Operations, North Dakota
Hess’ Material Issues  
& Relevant U.N. SDGsKey Actions to Enhance Hess’ EHS & SR Performance DISCUSSION  
(PAGE #)
Emergency Preparedness  
and Response
Enhance the tracking, reporting, closure and validation of actions identified as part of training 
and drill after-action reviews in 2021 31–32
Continue the development of competencies to maintain asset level capability by 2025 31–32
Implement learnings from participation in external networks related to the latest technologies 
and processes by 202531–32  
Water Management
 Enhance the chemical selection process for hydraulic fracturing to further evaluate risks and 
water quality impact by 202356
Develop decision making criteria or thresholds for proactive water management projects by 2023 55–56
Identify and prioritize mitigations related to water stress and scarcity by 2023 55–56
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
 Continue to engage employees of diverse backgrounds through various initiatives in 2021 13–14, 35–36
Progress efforts of the newly formed diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) task forces in 2021, 
further embedding strategic initiatives into forward planning13–14, 35–36
Build DEI elements into Hess’ people strategy in 2021 and beyond 13–14, 35–36
Supply Chain and Contractor 
Management
Incorporate environmental, social or governance (ESG) criteria in the procurement and 
supplier evaluation processes by 202318–19  
Develop a program to include diverse suppliers in the procurement process and increase 
diverse supplier spend that is aligned with ESG and DEI goals by 202313–14, 19  
Enhance contractors’ shared responsibility and accountability for safety performance 
through tools such as integrated safety committees and the behavioral safety observation 
program by 202332–33
Community and Stakeholder 
Engagement
Enhance the consistency of social investment spend tracking and reporting in 2021 24–25
Develop an outcomes measurement framework for key social investment programs in 2021 24–25
Refresh the Social Responsibility and Human Rights Policies to align with the company’s 
current asset base and strategic objectives by 202321–24  
Enhance the reporting and communication of social risks through our enterprise risk 
management process by 202514–15, 23–2412
HOW WE OPERATE
We aim to help meet the world’s growing 
energy needs in a way that protects the 
health and safety of our people, safeguards 
the environment and contributes to the 
sustainability of the communities where we 
operate while delivering long term value to 
our shareholders and other stakeholders. 
The Hess Values, our Code of Business 
Conduct and Ethics (Code of Conduct), 
Social Responsibility (SR) Policy, Human 
Rights Policy, and Environment, Health 
and Safety (EHS) Policy define internal 
expectations for sustainable management 
and performance at Hess. We apply these 
principles to key company processes and 
initiatives, as described in this section.
GOVERNANCE
The highest level of oversight at Hess rests 
with the Board of Directors, which has four 
standing committees: the Audit Committee, 
the Compensation and Management Development Committee, the Corporate 
Governance and Nominating Committee 
and the EHS Committee.
See Hess’ committee charters and Corporate 
Governance Guidelines at hess.com/investors
Board Accountability
Hess’ Board is actively engaged in 
overseeing the company’s sustainability 
strategy and performance, working 
alongside senior management to evaluate 
sustainability risks and global scenarios 
in making strategic decisions, including 
those related to climate change. Our 
independent Chairman periodically 
accompanies our CEO and other 
members of senior management to 
meet with investors to solicit shareholder 
views on various topics, including the 
environment, health, safety and social 
responsibility. For more information on 
Board involvement in climate change related issues, see the Climate Change 
and Energy section (page 39).
The Board’s Audit Committee oversees 
the integrity of the company’s financial 
statements, financial reporting practices, 
systems of internal accounting and 
financial and disclosure controls, and other 
financial matters, such as tax planning, 
compliance and reporting for income 
taxes. It also oversees compliance and 
risk management.
The Board’s EHS Committee leads the 
Board’s oversight of Hess’ sustainability 
practices, working with the full Board and 
senior management so that sustainability 
risks and opportunities are taken into 
account when making strategic decisions. 
The EHS Committee assists the Board 
in identifying, evaluating and monitoring 
EHS strategies and material risks with the 
potential to affect the people, environment 
Offshore Operations, Gulf of Mexico13
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
or communities where we operate 
or our company’s business activities, 
performance or reputation. The EHS 
Committee makes recommendations to 
the full Board on policies, programs and 
practices to address such strategies and 
risks and also monitors the company’s 
compliance with these policies, programs 
and practices. The EHS Committee 
advises the Board’s Compensation and 
Management Development Committee 
regarding executive compensation 
measures to advance the EHS goals 
of the company. The EHS Committee 
also reviews emergency response 
preparedness and planning and EHS legal 
and regulatory matters that could affect 
the company’s business and operations, 
including our ongoing response to the 
COVID-19 pandemic.
The EHS Committee met five times in 
2020, and each committee member 
attended at least 75% of the meetings. 
Our Vice President of EHS met regularly 
with the EHS Committee and the Chair 
of the committee in 2020 to prioritize 
actions on a number of topics, including 
EHS performance and strategic priorities; 
COVID-19 response; enterprise risk 
management; regulatory matters; 
environmental, social and governance 
reporting; climate change strategic 
actions; and establishing and monitoring 
progress against greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions and flaring targets.
Each member of the EHS Committee 
is independent and qualified under the 
standards established by applicable law, 
stock exchange listing standards and 
Hess’ Corporate Governance Guidelines. 
Committee members have extensive oil 
and gas industry experience, including 
operational, regulatory and financial 
expertise. To supplement the expertise 
of EHS Committee members and the 
full Board of Directors, Hess brings in 
internal and external subject matter experts to brief members on current 
and developing issues relevant to our 
business, such as climate change. Board 
members, together with our executive 
leadership, also participate in field visits 
to Hess operated and nonoperated 
assets to better understand our key EHS 
strategies and risks. During these visits, 
the EHS Committee engages with the 
Hess workforce and observes how Hess 
is managing and mitigating EHS risks 
and opportunities, such as leveraging 
Lean and technology focused initiatives 
in the field. While the 2020 field visit was 
deferred due to the COVID-19 pandemic, 
plans are underway to recommence this 
practice when it is deemed safe and 
appropriate to do so.
Executive Oversight
The company is managed by an Executive 
Committee, which is composed of Hess’ 
most senior executives and chaired by our 
CEO. The Executive Committee focuses 
on operational, strategic, financial, EHS 
and social issues and is the highest 
approval body before the Board. The 
Executive Committee holds regularly 
scheduled meetings, and our Chief 
Operating Officer chairs an operating 
subcommittee of the Executive Committee 
that also meets routinely to discuss these 
and other matters.
  See information on our approach to 
sustainable tax policy at hess.com/
sustainability/how-we-operate/tax-practices
DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND 
INCLUSION
Hess has a longstanding commitment 
to diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI), 
which we believe creates value for all of 
our stakeholders and is essential to being 
a socially responsible and sustainable 
enterprise. Within Hess, our focus is 
on fostering a diverse and inclusive 
work environment, in which all Hess 
employees have equal opportunities to achieve their full potential. Externally, our 
company has a long history of social 
investment programs in the communities 
where we operate. We have focused our 
investments on those that make a positive 
and lasting impact through education and 
work skill development, both of which 
are fundamental to societal equity and 
sustainable economic growth. We also 
promote diversity and inclusion in our 
supply chain and in our industry. (See 
page 19 for further detail on our supplier 
DEI efforts.)
Hess’ senior management is actively 
engaged in our DEI plans and programs, 
with oversight by our Board. Our DEI 
Council provides executive leadership 
and guidance in recruitment, work 
environment and development activities; 
we are expanding the Council to include 
employee resource group representation. 
In 2020, we extended unconscious bias 
training to all Hess employees, expanded 
our employee resource groups and held 
listening sessions with small groups of 
employees from underrepresented groups 
to better understand their experiences in 
society and at our company, which will 
guide our efforts moving forward. (See 
pages 35–36 for further detail on our 
workforce DEI efforts.)
Building on previous programs and 
investments in Houston to expand 
education and work skill development 
for diverse communities, we donated 
$200,000 to help establish the Program 
Management Office for the Houston 
Complete Communities Initiative. 
The initiative is aimed at providing all 
Houstonians with equal access to quality 
services and amenities. Starting in 2021, 
we have committed approximately 
$9 million over a three year period to help 
expand educational programs in Houston 
to areas that include the Third Ward, an 
economically disadvantaged community.14
In 2020, we launched three task forces 
with employees from a mix of assets 
and functions to help advance our DEI 
strategy. The task forces have made 
recommendations in the following key areas, 
for implementation beginning in 2021:
• Recruiting: Consider strategies for 
increasing diversity in candidate slates, 
hiring, and representation within Hess; 
identify alternate sources of talent and 
opportunities to broaden outreach of 
recruiting efforts
• Employee Development: Consider talent 
management programs to provide 
focused career growth and development 
for minority and other underrepresented 
employee groups within Hess
• Supplier Diversity: Establish tools to 
broaden sources of supplier diversity; 
implement and monitor supplier diversity 
goals; join key supplier certification 
councils
KEY INITIATIVES
We continue to evolve and advance our 
management system to align with Hess’ 
portfolio and organizational structure and 
to support our performance objectives. 
Our teams of functional leaders (e.g., 
EHS, Wells, Reliability Operations, Projects 
and Facilities Engineering, and Global 
Supply Chain) provide expertise in key 
functional areas within each asset and 
provide oversight and assurance across 
the company. The Head of each functional 
area is responsible for overseeing activities 
in that area across the company, verifying 
that relevant standards are applied as 
appropriate and working with each asset to 
optimize safety, quality, delivery and cost.
The Heads of each function are supported 
by technical authorities and subject 
matter experts – many of whom are 
embedded directly into our assets. 
Together with leadership from each asset, 
these individuals form the “Heads of” 
and Technical Authority Network, which supports operations across the company. 
This group – and other functional leaders 
and subject matter experts as relevant 
– meets monthly to optimize synergies 
across our functions and assets, support 
enterprisewide initiatives and promote 
transparency of activities.
In 2020, we continued implementing 
and optimizing the Hess Operational 
Management System (HOMS), a single, 
enterprisewide system that governs how 
we operate. HOMS establishes a common 
operational framework outlining how 
we address risk management, process 
safety, environmental responsibility, 
and management of employees and 
contractors, as well as the efficient and 
reliable design and operation of our 
assets. This integrated and consistent 
enterprisewide approach is designed to 
help us manage risks associated with a 
changing organization; coordinate technical 
expertise, standards and processes across 
the organization; and align asset level 
operations with enterprisewide corporate 
standards and business priorities.
Ongoing assurance and continuous 
improvement are central aspects of how 
we manage our organization, including 
using audits and assessments of our 
implementation of and compliance with 
HOMS. Key operations and processes are 
reviewed regularly based on assessed risk 
and compliance requirements.
In 2020, we began a thorough review 
of our operational standards and 
procedures focused on improving the 
balance of global, enterprisewide and 
asset specific requirements to better 
address asset specific risks and needs 
while maintaining consistency across the 
company. Representatives from various 
Hess functions (e.g., EHS, Wells, Reliability 
Operations, Projects and Facilities 
Engineering, and Global Supply Chain), 
at the corporate and asset levels, are 
working to review relevant standards and procedures to help ensure cross functional 
communication and accountability. 
We will complete implementation of 
our EHS standards, which formalize 
enterprisewide expectations and 
accountabilities for key areas of EHS risk 
and performance, as part of the HOMS 
optimization process.
  Information on Reliability Operations, another 
key initiative, can be found at hess.com/ 
sustainability/how-we-operate/key-initiatives
KEY ENTERPRISE PROCESSES
Several key processes in our company help 
to identify and mitigate risks in potential, new 
and existing operations; achieve operational 
excellence; and evaluate investment 
opportunities.
While these processes are focused on our 
operated assets, it is important to note 
that we also review potential risks in Hess’ 
nonoperated assets. We generally prioritize 
four main objectives for nonoperated assets: 
making a positive contribution to local 
communities; influencing project outcomes 
by focusing on issues with the greatest 
potential impact; establishing governance 
structures and project assurance plans; 
and documenting and internally sharing 
high value lessons learned. As these 
assets represent a significant portion of 
Hess’ capital spend, we have continued 
to conduct targeted, high level reviews of 
nonoperated activities, including production 
operations, facilities and designs.
Enterprise Risk Management 
Hess applies a comprehensive, 
standardized approach to identifying 
and managing risks of all types across 
our operations, such as those related 
to process safety, climate change 
and cybersecurity. Our enterprise risk 
management (ERM) program, which 
includes consideration of EHS & SR 
risks, delivers a framework that enables 
Hess’ Board of Directors and executive 
leadership to work together to strengthen HOW WE OPERATE15
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTthe consistency of risk consideration in 
making business decisions. Our Board 
of Directors has ultimate oversight over 
the ERM process and is charged with 
understanding the key risks affecting the 
company’s business and how those risks 
can be managed. Annually, our Chief 
Risk Officer (CRO) provides the Board’s 
Audit Committee with a comprehensive 
review of Hess’ enterprise level risks, 
the status of the ERM program and risk 
management strategies utilized under our 
Risk Management Standard. The status 
of EHS & SR risks and mitigations are also 
discussed at the Board’s EHS Committee 
meetings, as appropriate. Periodically, our 
Chief Financial Officer and CRO provide 
an update to the Board on enterprise level 
risks, including the relative risks of assets 
and projects within the portfolio. Corporate 
Risk oversees day-to-day implementation 
of the ERM process, including developing 
and verifying compliance with relevant 
policies and standards.
Hess’ ERM framework is used to develop 
a holistic risk profile for each asset and 
major capital project, drawing input from 
subject matter experts, performance data, 
incident investigations, lessons learned and 
recent audits. In these risk assessments, we 
identify risks and assess their likelihood and 
potential impact to people, the environment, 
our reputation and our business.Our Risk Management Standard, which 
applies to all assets and major capital 
projects, helps to align and integrate risk 
management across the company. The 
standard establishes a risk framework, 
accountabilities and expectations across 
the organization to provide a consistent and 
integrated risk management process across 
our assets, projects and business functions.
As part of our ERM process, all assets 
are required to have a risk assessment 
and risk plan in place that are refreshed 
at least annually. In addition, major capital 
projects and new development opportunities 
that go through the value assurance 
process (described at right) must have 
risk assessments completed prior to each 
value assurance stage gate. Risk registers 
and reports that are generated through 
these processes are reviewed and updated 
periodically as part of asset and major 
project operating rhythm meetings.
We also require that functional level risk 
assessments be included in each asset’s 
or project’s risk plan. Examples include 
identifying and validating concept selection 
or confirming the technical basis of design 
for a facility.
Climate risks are considered throughout 
both enterprise and functional risk 
assessments from the perspective of 
potential financial, physical, reputational 
and regulatory impacts. Further discussion of our approach to managing climate risks 
can be found in the Climate Change and 
Energy section.
Value Assurance
Major investment opportunities are 
assessed through our value assurance 
process. This process helps to provide 
increased objectivity in our investment 
decisions by including those who are not 
directly involved with the asset or project 
in internal reviews. Following this process 
helps to provide assurance that our capital 
allocation and portfolio management 
decisions are based on independently 
reviewed, high quality input.
The value assurance reviews are risk based 
and focus on economics, subsurface and 
facility design, safety, environmental and 
socioeconomic considerations, regulatory 
requirements and other technical and 
nontechnical risks. In order to evaluate the 
potential impact of carbon cost on project 
economics, we apply either actual carbon 
pricing where a regulatory framework for 
it exists or – where a framework does not 
exist – we evaluate the potential impact 
of carbon cost as set out in our planning 
guidance. In April 2021, we updated our 
planning guidance to expand the evaluation 
for all significant investment decisions to 
include a sensitivity using the International 
Energy Agency’s Sustainable Development 
Scenario carbon pricing (see pages 41–45). 
Through our value assurance process, we 
bring in technical experts from across the 
company, who are chosen based on how 
their skills and experience contribute to the 
project under review. Including experts from 
across the organization creates learning 
opportunities for participants to take back 
to their respective assets and functions and 
apply to future assurance processes.
The value assurance process is closely 
aligned with our ERM process so that we 
can apply consistent methodologies and 
criteria to risks across our company.
Planning Meeting, Houston, Texas16
Due Diligence
Our due diligence processes help us assess 
nontechnical, aboveground risks when 
evaluating opportunities, including those in 
new geographies. The process also helps 
the project team mitigate identified risks 
once a commitment is made to proceed. 
Ultimately, the process is complementary to 
our ERM and value assurance workflows, 
utilizing the necessary information at key 
decision points in our investment and project 
planning processes.
See more detail on these processes at hess.
com/sustainability/how-we-operate/
key-enterprise-processes 
Lean and Innovation
For more than a decade, Hess has 
been implementing Lean thinking and 
methodologies across our operations 
to eliminate waste, improve safety and 
reliability, drive continuous improvement 
and create value for our shareholders, 
business partners, employees and other 
stakeholders. We have encouraged our 
leaders to develop a Lean mindset, learn 
fundamental Lean skills and apply them to 
business problems. The leaders then coach 
and develop employees and contractors 
on Lean thinking and how they can identify 
and solve problems themselves. While 
Lean started as a series of special projects, 
it is now integrated into our company 
culture, and our workforce is empowered 
to be an “army of problem solvers” focused 
on continuous improvement.
Building on the successes and lessons 
learned from our efforts to integrate 
Lean into the Hess culture, we are 
expanding this culture to include both 
Lean and innovation. We see these as 
complementary mindsets that will help 
us achieve significant performance 
improvements. Through Lean thinking, 
we encourage our people to identify 
opportunities for incremental improvements 
– ways to do what they already do better. 
An innovation focus helps our people think of entirely new ways to do what they do, 
producing step change improvements. 
In 2020, we progressed several initiatives 
aimed at further operationalizing these 
principles into how we work. For example, 
we developed innovation guidelines that 
establish a common framework for driving 
innovation and integration with Lean across 
our organization. We also further developed 
an innovation funnel process to collect 
ideas from employees and a variety of 
relevant industry sources, identify ideas that 
have the potential to add value, rank ideas 
for future development and select those 
that align with our priorities for piloting. 
This process helps formalize and organize 
innovative thinking and drives ideas from 
conception to implementation. Moving 
forward, we will continue to expand our 
efforts by developing Lean and innovation 
leaders, fostering internal collaboration 
networks and sharing learnings from these 
pilots across the organization. 
BUSINESS CONDUCT
The Hess Code of Conduct outlines 
the business conduct and behaviors 
we expect of our employees, officers, 
directors and contractors. Any individual 
or company working on behalf of Hess 
or our subsidiaries is expected to follow 
similar principles. Failure to comply with the 
Code of Conduct and related policies, or 
applicable laws, may result in disciplinary 
action, including termination.
All of our key compliance policies 
and procedures are described in our 
Code of Conduct. These policies and 
procedures are communicated to and 
available for all employees globally. Our 
Global Compliance team establishes, 
maintains and enforces the compliance 
policies and procedures, as well as other 
processes and initiatives to prevent and 
detect compliance violations. Our aim 
is to promote an organizational culture 
that is committed to ethical conduct 
and compliance with the law. The Chief Compliance Officer updates the Audit 
Committee of the Board of Directors on a 
regular basis.
To continuously enforce compliance 
controls and embrace best practices, 
our Global Compliance team focuses 
on internal investigations and antibribery 
and anticorruption (ABAC) programs, as 
well as other enterprise programs and 
systems. In 2020, our Global Compliance 
team investigated all issues and allegations 
referred to the team through the various 
channels available to our workforce, 
including our dedicated compliance 
hotline. In addition, Global Compliance 
continued to manage the company’s 
automated approval systems – which are 
used to review and approve higher risk 
transactions and relationships with our 
business partners – including our system 
for the disclosure, review and approval or 
mitigation of potential conflicts of interest.
Providing employees with effective training 
on the Hess Values is a key element of 
strengthening our culture so that employees 
understand and embody the Values in their 
daily work. As part of this effort, our Global 
Compliance team has developed in-depth 
online trainings on our Code of Conduct and 
our ABAC Policy and Procedure. At year 
end 2020, 99% of active employees had 
completed the Code of Conduct training, 
and 99% had completed the ABAC training. 
See more detail on ABAC at hess.com/
sustainability/how-we-operate/anti-bribery-
and-anti-corruption-compliance
POLITICAL ENGAGEMENT
HessPAC 
HessPAC serves as the political action 
committee (PAC) of Hess’ U.S. employees 
and acts in full compliance with U.S. 
federal and state campaign finance 
and election laws. HessPAC is used to 
promote the interests of Hess Corporation. 
In 2020, HessPAC continued in its 
third full cycle of operation, generated 
approximately $96,500 in member HOW WE OPERATE17
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTcontributions and distributed $88,500 
in political contributions in a bipartisan 
manner to candidates at the federal level.
HessPAC publicly discloses all of its 
contributions to political candidates, parties 
and committees. Its federal contributions 
are accessible via the U.S. Federal Election 
Commission’s website (www.fec.gov). In 
2020, HessPAC did not make any state 
level contributions, but if it does in the 
future, these will be publicly available on 
the appropriate website of each respective 
state where HessPAC is active. As legally 
permitted, Hess corporate funds were 
used to provide administrative support for 
HessPAC. Both direct and indirect corporate 
political contributions are prohibited by 
Hess company policy. HessPAC permits 
political contributions only through voluntary 
employee funded PAC contributions.
Advocacy
Hess regularly communicates with an 
array of stakeholders in the public policy 
arena, including legislators and regulators 
both in the U.S. and internationally. Hess 
executives and our External Affairs function 
engage with legislative and regulatory 
institutions to offer a unique perspective on 
energy policy issues, to better understand 
federal and state requirements applicable 
to our operations and to mitigate potential 
risks to the company’s license to operate.
Consistent with Hess principles and values, 
our legislative and regulatory engagement 
is done in accordance with all applicable 
laws and regulations. 
Our commitment to transparency also 
means that the company fully complies 
with all lobbying reporting requirements 
outlined in the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 
1995 and all amendments made to the law 
by P .L. 110-81, the Honest Leadership and 
Open Government Act of 2007. In 2020, 
the company’s lobbying expenses totaled 
approximately $589,700. This includes fees 
and expenses for external consultants and trade association dues used for lobbying 
purposes, as required by the Lobbying 
Disclosure Act. We also comply with any 
and all relevant state and foreign legal and 
regulatory requirements concerning direct 
and indirect lobbying activities and contacts.
Hess belongs to a number of trade 
associations (organized under section 501(c)
(6) of the Internal Revenue Code) that include 
our industry peers and other companies 
in related sectors. Trade associations 
provide forums through which companies 
across the oil and gas industry can develop 
unified public policy agendas, exchange 
technical and industry best practices and 
approach issues relevant to our business 
with a common voice. We require all trade 
associations to publicly disclose all expenses 
related to lobbying activities, as outlined 
by the Lobbying Disclosure Act. Our trade 
associations’ lobbying activities accounted 
for 21% of our total lobbying spend in 2020.
In 2020, none of Hess’ membership fees or 
dues were used by any of our associations 
for direct or indirect political advocacy. 
Furthermore, no payments made by Hess 
to 501(c)(6) or 501(c)(4) organizations 
were used for political purposes. A list 
of memberships and associations that received more than $50,000 from Hess in 
2020 is shown below.
Hess’ Vice President of External Affairs is 
responsible for approving and overseeing 
employee engagement with elected officials 
or regulators when these employees act 
as official representatives of the company. 
This strict internal policy extends to Hess 
employees who serve on trade association 
committees that advocate for policy 
changes. This helps to ensure that we 
continue to operate at the highest level 
of integrity and transparency and remain 
compliant with all reporting requirements.
We aim to align our advocacy priorities 
with our established processes related to 
ERM and EHS. We also conduct ongoing 
assessments of our global advocacy 
priorities to drive improvements to our 
process for tracking and informing our 
advocacy efforts.
Trade Association Alignment
We recognize that our positions do not 
always align with all formal positions 
of the associations, organizations and 
collaborative working groups in which we 
participate. Our membership should not 
be considered a direct endorsement of 
the entire range of activities undertaken 
by these groups; however, many of them 
share Hess’ position on climate change. 
In 2020, we actively participated in several 
updates to association positions, including 
on climate change and methane emissions, 
so that they more closely align with our 
positions. To address concerns related 
to potential inconsistency on a variety of 
issues, we publish our own positions on key 
sustainability topics in this annual report.  
To illustrate our alignment on climate change 
policies with our national and international 
memberships and associations, we 
chose to evaluate those major advocacy 
organizations that have historically received 
more than $50,000 from Hess in any given 
year. Our evaluation was conducted using Memberships and 
Associations
• American Petroleum Institute
• Center for Offshore Safety
•  Center for Strategic and 
International Studies
• Council on Foreign Relations
•  Extractive Industries Transparency 
Initiative
•  Independent Petroleum Association 
of America
• International Association of  
Oil & Gas Producers
•  IPIECA
• Marine Well Containment Company
• National Ocean Industries 
Association
•  National Petroleum Council 
• Oil Gas Denmark
•  U.S. Chamber of Commerce18
publicly available positions and statements, 
along with our own assessment of each 
organization’s activities on climate change 
and whether their climate positions are 
consistent with the following Hess positions: 
(1) acknowledgement of the science of 
climate change; (2) support for the Paris 
Agreement’s aim to limit global average 
temperature rise; (3) acknowledgement 
of the need to accelerate GHG emissions 
reductions through technological innovation; 
and (4) support for a carbon price applied to 
emitters across all sectors.
We did not include IPIECA in this analysis, 
although we are an active member of IPIECA 
on sustainable development issues such as 
climate change, biodiversity impacts and 
access to energy – issues that are often too 
complex for individual companies to tackle 
alone. Unlike many of the organizations 
that we have reviewed below, IPIECA is 
not a lobbying organization. IPIECA instead 
represents its members by engaging with 
stakeholders and governments on climate 
change and other sustainability topics and by providing a forum for encouraging 
continuous improvement of industry 
performance. IPIECA enables collaborative 
work with stakeholders by promoting an 
understanding of the key role the oil and gas 
industry should play in providing innovation, 
global reach, knowledge and technical 
expertise to help develop and implement 
feasible future energy solutions.
All of the organizations we analyzed 
acknowledge the science of climate 
change and support GHG emissions 
reductions through technological 
innovation, whereas one of the 
organizations has not publicly supported 
the aim of the Paris Agreement nor a 
carbon price and thus is identified as 
“somewhat inconsistent” with Hess’ 
positions on these issues. The table below 
summarizes the overarching results of our 
review as of May 2021. 
More detailed information on this evaluation 
can be found at hess.com/sustainability/
climate-change-energy/trade-association-
alignmentSUPPLY CHAIN
Our suppliers and contractors are critical 
to our success and play a significant role 
in Hess’ day-to-day business operations, 
collaborating with us to promote efficient 
operations, maintain high standards of EHS 
performance, mitigate risks and create 
shared value. We rely on them to provide key 
goods and services and perform essential 
tasks. In 2020, we purchased approximately 
$2.8 billion in commercial goods and 
services from approximately 3,390 suppliers, 
whose workhours comprised approximately 
70% of our total workforce hours.
We work collaboratively with many of our 
suppliers to review processes, procedures 
and data to help drive the right actions 
and foster continuous improvement. 
In 2020, we worked to strengthen our 
supplier relationships through enhanced 
engagements focused on increasing 
transparency, delivering mutual value and 
discovering improved ways of working 
together, especially with our most strategic 
suppliers. For example, we are actively 
working with suppliers to develop and 
implement new technologies that will help 
us meet our environmental goals, including 
exploring options for battery hybrid rig power 
to reduce emissions in the Bakken.  
In response to COVID-19, Hess 
implemented a supply chain resilience 
assessment program through which we 
worked with suppliers to understand the 
impact of the pandemic on their operations, 
monitor potential operational risks and 
develop mitigation strategies. This effort 
included maintaining a dashboard of supplier 
operational status, risks and mitigation 
measures that was updated weekly.
While this section describes our general 
approach to engagement with our 
suppliers, these practices may differ 
in certain instances, if necessary, to 
comply with applicable local laws and 
requirements or if otherwise appropriate.HOW WE OPERATE
Findings of Hess' Trade Association Evaluation
INDUSTRY ADVOCACY 
ORGANIZATIONSSUMMARY OF ALIGNMENT WITH HESS' CLIMATE POSITIONS
American Petroleum 
Institute (API) The API recently took significant steps to revise its position on climate 
and continues to consider forward leaning climate action that is 
consistent with the four Hess positions included in our analysis. We 
will continue to use our influence to promote changes in climate policy 
direction at the API, where appropriate.
U.S. Chamber of 
CommerceThe Chamber’s climate position has recently evolved in a positive 
direction, and the organization continues to consider forward leaning 
climate action that is consistent with the four Hess positions included in 
our analysis. As the Chamber represents a broad group of companies 
of various sizes and from different economic sectors, we will continue 
to leverage our membership to align with Hess’ policies and positions, 
where possible and appropriate.
National Ocean 
Industries Association 
(NOIA)The NOIA’s recently adopted Climate Change Position and Principles 
are consistent with the four Hess positions included in our analysis. 
Hess supported NOIA’s effort and will continue to support and 
influence its efforts to balance the environmental, social, economic,  
and energy needs of society.
Independent 
Petroleum Association 
of America (IPAA)The IPAA maintains climate positions that are somewhat inconsistent with 
the four Hess positions included in our analysis, although discussions 
are proceeding in a positive direction. We will use our influence in 
this organization to promote a change in policy direction, where 
appropriate, and if we cannot, we will further assess our membership 
and take appropriate actions, balancing the broader value that we 
realize from our participation.19
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTManagement Approach
Effective supply chain management 
underpins our business and operational 
strategies. For example, supply chain 
management will play an important role in 
helping us achieve the new environmental, 
safety and DEI goals outlined in our updated 
EHS & SR strategy (see pages 9–11). It was 
also identified as one of our most important 
material issues in our refreshed materiality 
assessment (see page 6). 
We continue to enhance our capabilities 
to understand the market and strategically 
manage our suppliers with cross functional 
teams that work collaboratively to reach 
safety, quality, delivery and cost targets. 
Our Procurement Policy specifies who 
should participate in the evaluation of 
tenders, management of contracts and 
ongoing procurement of goods and 
services. It also includes code of ethics and 
conflict of interest guidelines that establish 
clear expectations for our employees when 
engaging with suppliers. A central goal of 
our supply chain management system, 
including our Procurement Policy, is to 
help ensure that suppliers understand and 
abide by our high ethical, safety and other 
performance standards while helping 
us to avoid unexpected commitments 
and leverage our spend more effectively. 
In 2020, certain of our supply chain 
management processes were integrated 
into HOMS, as described on page 14.
Hess follows a standardized approach to 
evaluate and measure the performance of 
key potential and current suppliers on the 
basis of total value, including safety, quality, 
delivery and cost. We employ a systematic 
prequalification and selection process to 
help ensure we are working with qualified 
and safe suppliers. Where appropriate, 
potential suppliers – as determined by a 
risk based decision matrix – undergo a 
risk review; an antibribery, anticorruption 
and legal compliance review; and a review 
of EHS performance and programs. In addition, our procurement staff reviews, 
where appropriate, potential suppliers’ 
insurance, tax and quality information. 
If discrepancies with our applicable 
requirements arise, the relevant function 
within Hess conducts an additional review 
and develops mitigation plans, as needed.
Contracts that involve higher risk, due to 
factors such as the number of workhours 
or the scope of work, are subject to an EHS 
review during the procurement process 
that covers training qualifications, safety 
programs and performance, environmental 
management systems and measurement, 
and emergency preparedness and 
response, among other topics. As one 
part of the EHS review, we use recognized 
industry prequalification systems for our 
areas of operation in the U.S. and Europe. 
In Malaysia, we use a standardized process 
with a questionnaire based on the 14 HOMS 
elements. Further detail on our EHS related 
qualifications review during procurement can 
be found in the Safety and Health section.
We recognize the value of engaging a 
diverse supplier base to bring innovation, 
agility and value to our business and 
to reflect our commitment to creating 
opportunity in the communities we impact. 
Intentionally expanding the diversity of our 
supply base is one of the pillars of our DEI 
efforts. In 2020, we established a task 
force of cross functional leaders to guide 
the development of our supplier diversity 
strategy and to provide recommendations 
on key actions needed to help ensure an 
impactful and sustainable program. In 
2021, our activities will focus on developing 
a three to five year road map, establishing a 
supplier diversity implementation team and 
incorporating inclusion and diversity in our 
supply chain processes.
The companies that supply Hess with 
goods and services must comply with all 
applicable laws and regulations, including 
in areas such as EHS, conflicts of interest 
and anticorruption, and must maintain any applicable licensing or permitting 
requirements for their activities. Suppliers 
are also required to meet the expectations 
set forth in our Code of Business Conduct 
and Ethics and our Voluntary Commitments 
regarding labor and human rights. Standard 
contract clauses include requirements 
with respect to ethical business practices, 
human rights, social responsibility, business 
integrity, search and seizure, EHS and 
quality of materials and services. 
Local Content
Internationally we often prioritize local 
suppliers when performing under production 
sharing contracts or other agreements with 
host countries. These agreements vary by 
country, but may include use of an approved 
supplier list, requirements for government 
approval of suppliers or threshold 
specifications for local companies or workers. 
In Malaysia, for example, we use an 
approved vendor list that includes 
Malaysian owned companies, and we 
also require our suppliers to prioritize 
hiring local staff. Hess’ joint venture 
in Guyana also seeks to employ local 
nationals and support local suppliers. A 
continuing focus by the joint venture has 
been support for the Centre for Local 
Business Development. Since its opening 
in 2017, the Centre has held 42 supplier 
forums, assessed over 512 businesses’ 
strengths and weaknesses, registered 
nearly 2,700 businesses in a supplier portal 
and conducted the equivalent of more 
than 3,600 days of training. The trainings 
have covered the fundamentals of offshore 
oil and gas production, procurement and 
supply chain management, financial and 
human resources management, and safety, 
security, health and environmental topics 
such as waste management, incident 
response and air quality monitoring.
See more on Hess’ expectations and 
requirements for suppliers at suppliers.hess.
com and hess.com/sustainability/
how-we-operate/supply-chain20
LEAP Program, Houston, Texas21
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSocial responsibility (SR), which is one 
of the six Hess Values, is foundational to 
the culture of our company and to our 
engagement with the communities where 
we operate. To us, SR means maintaining 
the highest corporate citizenship standards 
while delivering the energy the world 
needs. It includes protecting the health and 
safety of our workforce, safeguarding the 
environment and creating a long lasting 
positive impact on our communities.
Our approach to SR emphasizes proactive 
stakeholder engagement, social risk 
and impact management, and strategic 
social investments that provide direct 
and indirect benefits to the communities 
where we operate. Our SR activities are 
designed to generate opportunities for our 
stakeholders, create valued partnerships 
and maximize value for shareholders.
GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
We are committed to implementing ethical 
and responsible business practices in all that 
we do. Through the Hess Code of Conduct, 
we have established the business conduct 
and practices we expect of our employees, 
officers, directors and contractors, including 
adherence to the highest standards of human 
rights. We have endorsed or formally joined 
a number of voluntary initiatives designed to 
protect the environment, promote human 
rights and encourage financial transparency. 
We collectively call these our Voluntary 
Commitments. They include:
• The Universal Declaration of Human 
Rights
• The International Labour Organization’s 
Declaration on Fundamental Principles 
and Rights at Work
• The United Nations (U.N.) Global Compact
• The Extractive Industries Transparency 
InitiativeHess’ Voluntary Commitments help to 
provide a foundation for our SR and 
Human Rights Policies. Our SR Policy, 
for example, compels us to demonstrate 
high standards of ethics and integrity 
and outlines our commitments to the 
communities where we operate and 
to our workforce. Our Human Rights 
Policy specifically prohibits child labor, 
forced labor and workplace harassment 
in our operations; it also covers key 
issues relating to our supply chain and 
community engagement. These policies 
are supported at the local level through 
training and procedures specific to the 
needs of our operational locations.
Additionally, Hess is a member of the Human 
Rights Campaign’s Business Coalition for 
the Equality Act. This legislation, which is 
under review in the U.S. Congress, would 
guarantee explicit, permanent protections for 
lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer 
people under existing civil rights laws and 
would create a federal standard to treat all 
employees equally.
We remain committed to supporting 
the U.N.’s Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs). Through the update of 
our environment, health, safety and 
social responsibility strategy in 2020, we 
considered opportunities to further align our 
business practices and strategic actions to 
the SDGs and underlying targets that are 
relevant to our industry. (See the Strategy 
and Progress section for more information.) 
Organizational Structure
Hess’ External Affairs function serves 
as an internal coordination body and 
resource for our assets and project teams 
as they implement our SR commitments 
and programs. External Affairs develops 
governance, reports companywide 
social performance, provides technical and functional support to the assets and 
project teams, and provides assurance 
across these efforts. The asset and project 
resources report into the business line 
management structure and are responsible 
for developing and executing asset or 
project specific SR plans. SR activities are 
integrated and aligned between our central 
organization and global locations.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
As we work to help meet the world’s 
energy needs, we collaborate, as 
appropriate, with resource owners, 
communities and stakeholders from 
across the industry and civil society to 
develop oil and natural gas resources in a 
manner that is environmentally and socially 
responsible. We prioritize safety, integrity 
and transparency and are committed to 
managing our stakeholder relationships with 
respect. We actively pursue dialogue with 
stakeholders – including local communities, 
employees, contractors, suppliers, 
customers, industry members, governments 
and investors – to share our values, vision 
and goals and to seek feedback.
Stakeholder Planning and 
Engagement Process 
Our stakeholder planning and engagement 
process is aligned with and included in 
the Hess Risk Management Standard. 
Alignment with this standard helps 
to establish clear links between our 
stakeholder identification and engagement 
activities and the key external issues 
impacting each asset. 
We maintain individualized External 
Affairs and Stakeholder (EAS) Plans for 
each of Hess’ operated locations. The 
individualized EAS Plans involve a five 
step process (see graphic on the next 
page). The first step is understanding 
the specific risks faced by each asset as SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY22
identified in the asset level risk register 
and “heat maps,” as well as identifying 
external facing issues that are critical to 
maintaining Hess’ license to operate. 
In the second step, we establish 
documented internal accountabilities 
for managing each key issue – including 
identification of a Business Owner (i.e., an 
individual from senior management with 
accountability for the issue) and an Issue 
Manager or Managers (i.e., individuals 
responsible for managing the ongoing 
strategy and engagement to mitigate 
stakeholder impacts). In step three, each 
Issue Manager, with support from our 
External Affairs function, documents the 
relevant stakeholders, and then, in step 
four, outlines the engagement strategies 
for those stakeholders. The final step is 
monitoring and tracking the key issues, 
with updates to the Business Owner and, 
as required, other senior management at 
least twice per year.
We update these plans annually and use 
the results to guide our social engagement 
strategy. Through our 2020 EAS process, 
we identified an opportunity to expand the 
education of our workforce on our human 
rights approach and the mechanisms 
available for our workforce and local 
community members to share complaints 
or concerns. Collaborating with stakeholders helps us to 
identify opportunities for beneﬁting our host 
communities while improving our business 
and strengthening our license to operate. 
We engage with a wide range of external 
stakeholders, including the following:
• Land Users/Landowners: Residents, 
landowners, commercial land interests, 
farmers, ranchers
• Resources Users/Rights Holders: 
Mineral rights owners, water rights owners 
and users, hunters, fishers, gatherers
• Governments: Local, regional and 
national authorities; national militaries; 
international governing authorities
• Parties with Direct Economic Interests: 
Investors, vendors and suppliers, 
contractors, unions, shareholders
• Parties with External Business Interests: 
Chambers of commerce, industry 
organizations, local businesses, 
sustainability initiatives
• Special Interest Groups: Nongovernmental 
organizations, religious groups, cause 
oriented nonprofits, community groups
• Community Services: Police, fire and 
emergency medical services; health 
care services; education; human service 
agencies
• Indigenous Groups: Formally recognized 
groups, tribal coalitions, government 
supporting agencies, indigenous 
advocacy groups
Recent examples of our stakeholder 
engagement activities can be found at  
hess.com/sustainability/social-responsibility
Grievance Mechanisms
In the communities where we operate, we 
do our best to address potential issues 
early – before they mature into more severe 
challenges – and we believe that strong and 
transparent stakeholder relationships help us 
to do that. Formal grievance mechanisms 
are an important part of soliciting stakeholder 
feedback for our company’s operational 
impacts and help us respond to and act on 
feedback through an established process. Hess’ grievance mechanisms facilitate 
stronger relationships with communities, 
landowners and other stakeholders and 
allow for a more effective response to 
community concerns. We have reached out 
to community members through forums, 
such as community meetings, town halls and 
local hearings, to share information about 
our grievance mechanisms and to establish 
channels of communication. As an additional 
step in the process, we survey stakeholders 
who communicate concerns to assess 
whether they are satisfied with our response. 
Through one of the grievance mechanisms 
at our Bakken asset, we accept feedback 
and complaints (anonymously, if desired) 
through several access points, including 
our Grievance Officer, the Hess Owner 
Solutions team, our North Dakota front 
desk staff and our Surface Land team. We 
receive and address concerns relating to 
employee and contractor performance, 
behavior and activities related to external 
stakeholders. We may also receive feedback 
on environment, health and safety (EHS) 
concerns and workplace, procurement and 
supplier issues. The most commonly raised 
topics include road conditions, erosion, 
land reclamation, fencing, cattle guards and 
weed control. In 2020, we received 311 
grievances through this process.
When alerted to a potential issue, the 
response team draws employees from 
various disciplines within Hess – such as 
EHS, drilling, completions, operations, 
maintenance, civil construction and 
human resources – that are best able 
to respond to the concern and reach a 
resolution. For example, safety concerns 
are forwarded to our EHS function; 
individual worker complaints are handled 
by Human Resources; and business 
integrity or ethics complaints are referred 
to our Code of Business Conduct and 
Ethics hotline. By engaging each discipline 
as appropriate, we escalate management 
of the grievance upward in the company 
as necessary to help resolve the issue. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
INTEGRATED STAKEHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENT PROCESS
STEP 1
Identify Risks & Issues
STEP 2
Establish Internal Accountabilities
STEP 3
Identify Key Stakeholders
STEP 4
Outline Engagements
STEP 5
Monitor & Track23
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTWe maintain an internal database – 
the stakeholder management system 
(SMS) – to track grievances from start 
to completion. (The SMS also supports 
our stakeholder engagement process 
described previously.) The response team 
strives to complete each investigation 
within 14 days of the original report and 
to provide a response and/or resolution 
within 30 days. As a final step before 
closing a case, we contact the stakeholder 
to confirm the issue has been adequately 
addressed. Trending data on grievances 
are reported upward to the Bakken 
Leadership Team, composed of key senior 
decision makers for the Bakken asset, as 
part of our regular operating rhythm.
In 2020, we enhanced our grievance 
reporting and tracking process to include 
quarterly reviews by the asset level General 
Manager, our External Affairs function and 
EHS personnel. This approach bolsters 
accountability and sharing of lessons 
learned throughout the organization. 
Separately, we maintain a grievance 
mechanism for landowners and mineral 
rights holders associated with the Bakken 
asset. Specifically, we have an owner 
relations telephone hotline, webpage and 
email address through which these individuals 
can ask questions and share concerns 
and complaints. Our Owner Relations and 
Owner Support teams manage this system 
and use the SMS to track open issues and 
to help ensure resolution. In 2020, these 
teams handled more than 35,000 emails 
and phone calls, assisting an average of 20 
customers per hour.
SOCIAL RISK AND IMPACT 
MANAGEMENT
When entering a new geography, 
commissioning a new development or 
expanding an existing facility, Hess uses 
strategic planning processes to examine 
the social, political and reputational 
environment and to identify nontechnical 
risks and mitigation activities. Where our operations are ongoing, we regularly 
conduct heat map reviews that take into 
account new and emerging risks and 
develop recommended mitigating actions. 
When we expand our operations, we work 
with stakeholders to proactively identify, 
mitigate and manage aboveground 
risks that can impact our activities or 
the communities where we operate. We 
address human rights considerations 
throughout these processes, including 
during due diligence and social risk 
identification, mitigation and management.
In 2020, with the help of an external 
consultant, we performed a social risk 
assessment focused on human rights 
issues for our North Malay Basin asset. 
The assessment, for which the final 
report was completed in early 2021, 
resulted in an overall finding of low risk. 
Several opportunities for improvement 
were identified, including enhancing 
human rights training and establishing a 
local human rights key point of contact. 
Mitigations recommended as part of the 
assessment will be tracked through our 
Enterprise Risk Management process.Human Rights
Everywhere we operate, we work to 
uphold human rights and to treat everyone 
with dignity and respect. By engaging 
with stakeholders, we aim to proactively 
address potential issues and work to 
prevent human rights related incidents. 
We seek to make positive and lasting 
contributions in governance, transparency, 
respect for rule of law, and social and 
economic development.
Our business practices are aligned with 
our SR and Human Rights Policies. 
Human rights issues are analyzed at 
various phases of our business activities, 
beginning with due diligence.
Hess is committed to educating our 
personnel on the importance of respecting 
human rights, as well as raising internal 
awareness of the best practices outlined 
in our Human Rights Policy. We include a 
human rights training module as part of 
our online Code of Business Conduct and 
Ethics training for employees that explains 
the concept and importance of human 
rights, reviews our Human Rights Policy, We regularly collaborate with external stakeholders to bolster our environmental 
and social performance. In 2020, we identified a flaring increase from our operations 
in the Stony Creek Field in North Dakota as a result of gas gathering infrastructure 
constraints. Addressing this issue required us to work with Kinder Morgan, the 
company that collects and transports the natural gas produced from our Stony Creek 
wells. A multidisciplinary Hess team worked together with their counterparts at 
Kinder Morgan to determine that the flaring increase was due to recent increases in 
production from both our and other producers’ wells that occurred at a pace above 
the capacity that Kinder Morgan was able to transport at that time.
After identifying the cause, we worked collaboratively with Kinder Morgan on a 
solution by convening a workshop, visiting the pipeline and reviewing digital models 
of the pipeline system. Using Lean problem solving principles, we identified the 
constraints that had limited the pipeline’s transportation volume and developed a 
range of short and long term solutions. Ultimately, we replaced a 500 foot section of 
pipeline with higher volume pipe, reconfigured equipment and improved systems for 
removing the liquids that reduce pipeline gas flow. The project increased gas collection 
by 3 to 5 million standard cubic feet per day and decreased flaring considerably. 
The collaboration also strengthened the Hess and Kinder Morgan teams’ working 
relationship, which is reinforced through weekly meetings as part of their regular 
operating rhythm and helps to create efficiencies in the performance of both teams.Collaboration with Our Supplier to Reduce Flaring24
offers guidance on integrating respect for 
human rights into employees’ daily work 
and provides directions on how to report 
suspected human rights violations.In 2020, we participated in IPIECA’s Human 
Rights and Supply Chain working groups, 
which aim to advance our industry’s 
approach to human rights and help to inform 
Hess’ policies and practices. These IPIECA 
groups are working to develop an online 
human rights training module for our industry, 
which is scheduled to be completed in 2021. 
COMMUNITY BENEFITS AND 
CAPACITY BUILDING
As part of Hess’ commitment to the 
communities where we operate, we focus 
on creating local shared value, mutually 
beneficial relationships and a safe and 
reliable environment for our operations. 
At the local level, our assets and Houston 
operational headquarters create, maintain 
and implement strategic social investment, 
capacity building and infrastructure 
improvement programs tailored to each 
operation and community.
We evaluate our programs to confirm 
a balance of strategic investment and 
support of local organizations, which helps 
us meet the changing development needs of the communities where we operate. 
Hess focuses on established partnerships 
with key organizations and projects best 
aligned with our values and the business 
and the social risks identified through risk 
assessments. We integrate this strategy 
into our business, enhancing investment 
visibility and leveraging volunteer 
opportunities for our employees.
Our social investment programs contribute 
to education improvement and work skill 
development, which are fundamental to 
sustainable economic growth. We also 
seek opportunities to have a positive 
impact on economic inclusion and equity in 
our supply chain to provide lasting benefit 
to the communities in which we operate.
In 2020, our social investments totaled 
nearly $11 million. This included $5 million 
going toward our $12.5 million commitment 
to support the Salk Institute’s Harnessing 
Plants Initiative research and development 
program (see page 49) and $2.7 million 
going toward education projects.SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
COVID-19 Relief
Helping our neighbors during the pandemic was an important focus of our social 
investment activities in 2020. Across our operating regions, we supported local 
communities through donations to meet COVID-19 related needs and through creative, 
socially distanced employee volunteer opportunities. 
In Houston, we partnered with the nonprofit Second Servings to initiate the “Dinner’s 
on Us” program, and our Food Services team distributed more than 125,000 meals from 
April to December. We also donated 12,000 “Stay Well” care packages – including items 
such as hand sanitizer and reusable masks – to emergency and intensive care workers in 
Houston’s largest hospital network. 
In North Dakota, Hess contributed $100,000 to the Great Plains Food Bank – a 
contribution that helped the food bank respond to a 45% increase in need during the 
COVID-19 pandemic. We also donated nearly 200 computers to Minot State University 
to support virtual learning during the pandemic. 
In Malaysia, Hess contributed more than 60,000 units of personal protective supplies – 
including face masks, hand sanitizers and medical gloves – to hospitals, district health 
clinics and police headquarters. In addition, we helped distribute almost 4,000 meals to 
frontline workers and underprivileged communities. 
In Guyana, Hess and its joint venture contributed $300,000 to COVID-19 relief efforts. 
The funding helped to provide additional quarantine facilities, food, sanitation items and 
equipment through the Civil Defense Commission, Salvation Army and Rotary Guyana. 2020 Social Investment Spend
by Country  
$ Thousands
9%
90%1%
■  U.S. $9,819
■  Guyana $1,040
■  Other* $100
*Other countries include Denmark and Malaysia.
47%15%9%4%
25%
■  Environment $5,172
■  Education $2,69 9
■  Health $1,686
■  Community $950
■  Matching gifts $449
These charts include all social investments in 2020,  
including those associated with joint venture operations.  
Noncash or “in-kind” contributions have been included 
within the category for the social issue which they support.2020 Social Investment Spend
by Type of Investment  
$ Thousands25
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTLocal Program Highlights
Hess’ global assets and Houston operational headquarters engaged in a variety of local social investment activities in 2020. 
The following are selected highlights. 
LEAP Program in Houston
In Houston, Hess continued to invest in our LEAP (Learn, Engage, Advance, Persevere) educational program and related initiatives, making 
adjustments for a virtual learning environment due to the pandemic. LEAP aims to support students in economically disadvantaged areas 
with programs and services to keep them in school and aspiring toward college or vocational training. Since 2013, Hess has contributed 
approximately $7.4 million to support students in Houston’s underserved Magnolia Park and Second Ward communities. 
Water Watch Programs in Texas and Louisiana
Hess continues to work with the Gulf of Mexico Alliance (GOMA) to support the sustainability and health of the Gulf’s aquatic 
resources, primarily through programs that help to improve water quality and clean up marine waste. In 2020, for the third year in a 
row, we contributed $100,000 to the GOMA Gulf Star program to support Water Watch and citizen science programs.
JET Apprenticeships in North Dakota
Job Experience Training (JET) is an apprenticeship program developed by Hess in 2017, in collaboration with Bismarck State College, 
to develop local, qualified reliability operators in North Dakota. Since inception, 27 apprentices have entered the JET program, 17 
have completed the apprenticeship and 12 have transitioned to be Hess employees. Given the success of the program, we made an 
additional investment of $50,000 in 2020. In 2021, we plan to fund six new JET apprentices. 
Toy Trucks in North Dakota
In partnership with North Dakota state education officials and the governor’s office, Hess uses toy trucks as STEM (science, technology, 
engineering and math) teaching tools. Since 2018, we have shipped these trucks, along with a corresponding STEM curriculum designed 
by Baylor College of Medicine’s Center for Educational Outreach, to every public elementary school in North Dakota. The materials 
provide teachers with ready made plans for STEM educational opportunities and help children learn about energy efficiency, kinetic 
energy and other STEM lessons.
Education in Malaysia
Hess continues to support local communities in Malaysia by investing in regional education. In 2020, we supported the MyKasih 
Foundation’s “Love My School” Student Bursary Programme in Kelantan. We “adopted” a school that serves the Orang Asli indigenous 
community, providing financial assistance to underprivileged primary students to help them complete their educations and build better 
lives for themselves and their families. 
Capacity Building in Guyana
In 2020, Hess’ joint venture in Guyana invested more than $3 million in an ongoing effort to build the capacity of the local business 
community and supplier base, with the ultimate aim of improving long term economic prosperity. A continuing focus has been support for 
the Centre for Local Business Development (see additional detail on page 19). Looking forward, Hess and our joint venture partners remain 
committed to continuing investment in programs that support capacity building in Guyana. In this context, we and our joint venture partners 
have committed a further $8 million in 2021 to continue building on the business development, education, health and agricultural programs.
Centre for Local Business Development, GuyanaSee more detail on these programs at hess.com/sustainability/social-responsibility26
Offshore Operations, Gulf of Thailand27
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Safety is Hess’ top priority and one of our 
core values, embodied within the Hess 
Value of Social Responsibility. Occupational 
health and safety, process safety and 
release prevention, and emergency 
preparedness and response are three of 
our most material sustainability issues, and 
we will continue to prioritize improvement 
in these areas through our updated 
environment, health, safety and social 
responsibility strategy. (See pages 10–11 
for our goals and targets through 2025.) 
We faced significant health and safety 
challenges related to the COVID-19 
pandemic and the most active hurricane 
season on record in 2020. We responded 
to these challenges with what is always 
our main objective: putting the safety 
of our workforce first. Our Environment, 
Health and Safety (EHS) function and 
our emergency response organization 
developed and led Hess’ responses to 
these events, helping us to keep our 
workforce safe and maintain business 
continuity while achieving record health 
and safety performance.
Our safety programs and practices aim 
to maintain a culture in which employees 
and contractors keep each other safe 
on the job so that everyone across our 
operations returns home safe every day. 
Our commitment to safety begins at the  
top of our company, and we work to 
reinforce it at every level. For example, we 
include key enterprisewide safety metrics 
in our annual incentive plan formula for 
executives and employees.
We also conduct leadership site visits 
and safety observations to engage our 
organization in safety performance. For 
leadership site visits, we continued to use the “Go to Gemba” approach in 2020 to 
engage our workforce in conversations 
about safety. Gemba means “the real 
place” in Japanese and, in practice, 
“Going to Gemba” means having leaders 
from Hess visit our worksites to better 
understand safety challenges and 
reinforce our commitment to “everyone, 
everywhere, every day, home safe.” 
When a site’s workforce includes contract 
workers, managers from our contractor 
companies will often accompany our 
leaders on these visits. While we had 
to scale back the site visits in 2020 due 
to the COVID-19 pandemic, we still 
completed approximately 115,000 site 
visits and observations. 
In 2020, we held our 12th annual Global 
Safety Appreciation Day virtually. The 
event provided an opportunity for the 
Hess workforce to reflect on safety, review 
the company’s COVID-19 response 
and acknowledge our workforce’s 
contributions to staying safe in a 
challenging year. 
We continue to advance our safety 
leadership training, which focuses on 
embedding ownership for safe work 
with frontline leaders by training them on 
specific Hess safety expectations and 
processes that help minimize risk and 
improve safety performance. We began 
rolling out this approach in our Bakken 
asset in 2019 by training 275 frontline 
leaders to be safety role models who 
help to set expectations and model key 
leadership and safety behaviors.
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, further 
expansion of this program was delayed. 
However, we will introduce virtual safety 
leadership training for frontline leaders at our Bakken, North Malay Basin and Gulf 
of Mexico assets in 2021, with a particular 
focus in the Bakken on integrating routine 
“Go to Gemba” type safety site visits and 
strategies for more effectively leading 
discussions about safety. In the Gulf of 
Mexico and North Malay Basin, we will 
begin training frontline safety leaders 
following the model developed in the 
Bakken. We also continue to collaborate 
with the Center for Offshore Safety and 
the International Association of Oil and 
Gas Producers (IOGP) on a set of process 
safety fundamentals, which we plan to 
integrate into our training in the future.  
We continued our participation in the 
development of the American Petroleum 
Institute’s Onshore Safety Alliance in 
2020, drawing on our own experience to 
support improvement within the oil and 
gas industry. This effort aims to establish 
industry standards for managing activities 
in U.S. onshore exploration and production 
operations that have historically high 
incident rates, with the ultimate goal of 
improving understanding of best practices 
and creating effective and efficient safety 
processes that are standardized across 
onshore upstream operations.
MANAGEMENT APPROACH
At Hess, our objective is continuous 
improvement in safety performance. The 
Hess Operational Management System 
(HOMS), which is discussed in the How 
We Operate section (see page 14), 
serves as a framework for managing and 
measuring our safety performance.
Over the past several years, we have 
formalized and standardized many of 
our EHS practices across the company 
through a global EHS standards project. SAFETY AND HEALTH28
These safety standards and associated 
procedures address key areas of safety 
risk – such as energy isolation, dropped 
objects and confined space entry – 
and promote leadership, awareness, 
consistency and accountability across all 
levels of the organization. As described 
in the How We Operate section, the EHS 
Global Standards are now embedded into 
HOMS (see page 14). We also maintain a 
set of Hess Rules to clearly express our 
universal, mandatory safety requirements 
to our workforce. 
We review conformance with the external 
and internal requirements (e.g., regulations, 
policies, standards and procedures) related 
to HOMS through our HOMS Audit Element 
and associated Assurance Procedure.
The HOMS Assurance Procedure operates 
in three tiers. At the Tier I Assurance level, 
and as an independent assurance function 
within the corporation, the Hess Corporate 
Audit Department (CAD) conducts annual 
audits following a risk based plan that 
covers various topics, including occupational 
safety and health; drilling, completions 
and production process safety; and 
management of environmental impacts. 
CAD’s annual plan is reviewed and approved 
by both the Audit Committee and the EHS 
Committee of Hess’ Board of Directors, 
while audit summaries are reported to and 
reviewed by the EHS Committee.
At the Tier II Assurance level, working 
collaboratively with Hess assets, subject 
matter experts and technical authorities 
conduct assessments to evaluate 
conformance with corporate and asset 
EHS standards and procedures, as 
well as with applicable regulations, and 
assist the assets in addressing identified 
improvement opportunities.
The Tier III Assurance level constitutes 
routine self assessments by assets against 
corporate EHS standards, corporate and 
asset level procedures, and regulations.In 2020, Hess’ CAD conducted Tier I audits 
and consulting activities in accordance 
with a Board approved plan that was 
adjusted to account for COVID-19 
impacts. Based on asset requests, Hess 
subject matter experts and technical 
authorities also completed various Tier II 
assessments in 2020. At the Tier III level, 
self assessments in the form of behavioral 
safety observations, leadership site visits, 
hazard observations, drilling rig inspections 
and other reviews occurred throughout the 
year, although these activities were also 
impacted by COVID-19.
Beginning in 2021, we have adopted a 
revised tiered assurance framework. EHS 
audits will be conducted as part of our 
Tier II Assurance program, managed by 
the central EHS function and performed 
by technical authorities and subject 
matter experts. In this revised framework, 
Hess’ CAD will then perform Tier I “health 
of process” audits of this Tier II EHS 
Assurance program. In order to preserve 
audit independence, an EHS audit role 
was created within the central EHS 
function with reporting lines separate 
from operations. The Tier III Assurance 
structure and activities remain unchanged 
in the revised framework.  
OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY
Hess emphasizes a culture of ownership 
for occupational safety by empowering 
workers and giving them the responsibility 
to identify and mitigate the safety issues 
relevant to their operations. For example, 
our behavioral safety observation program 
(BSOP) trains workers to conduct peer 
to peer workplace observations in order 
to identify and track safe and at risk 
behaviors. Immediate feedback is given to 
workers who have been observed.
We have implemented formal behavioral 
safety programs at all of our operated 
assets and provide ongoing training 
on behavioral safety, analysis and identification, and conversation skills. After 
pausing in person trainings throughout 
much of 2020 due to COVID-19, we 
hosted an enterprisewide BSOP virtual 
summit in October 2020, followed by a 
series of BSOP virtual training sessions. 
In 2021, our BSOP efforts will focus on 
developing asset steering teams that 
collect and analyze data on an ongoing 
basis to identify specific actions for 
continued improvement and to help 
remove barriers to improvement.
We are in the midst of a multiyear process 
to build a standardized approach to the 
competency assurance and learning (CAL) 
programs that we will use to define, assess 
and develop workforce competencies. 
As part of this effort, we are developing a 
common electronic management system 
for CAL programs, defining safety critical 
job profiles across the enterprise and 
integrating CAL into HOMS. (See page 14 
for more on HOMS.) In 2020, our focus 
was on compliance with regional regulatory 
training requirements, which we achieved. 
Transportation is another key focus 
of our occupational safety efforts at 
Hess. The Hess Land Transportation 
Standard has three pillars: driver training 
and competency, the use of in vehicle 
monitoring systems for company owned 
vehicles, and journey management 
planning. We also reward drivers who 
have perfect driving records and recognize 
them at team safety meetings. We believe 
this approach has helped us reduce 
collisions per million miles traveled by 69% 
from 2016 to 2020. We also reduced time 
spent driving over the speed limit by 99% 
from 2018 to 2020, thanks in part to an 
enhanced in vehicle speed monitoring 
system we implemented in 2018.
Hess workers are required to take proactive 
driver training prior to the first time they 
operate a motor vehicle on company 
business, with refresher training required SAFETY AND HEALTH29
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTevery three years. We modified our in 
vehicle training program during COVID-19 
based on the recommendations of medical 
and occupational health experts, so we 
could continue this training safely. For 
example, we used dedicated, sanitized 
vehicles; required mask wearing in vehicles; 
and instructed trainers to ride in the back 
seat to increase social distancing. 
Our Land Transportation team publishes 
weekly safety bulletins that address key 
topics, such as distracted driving, safe 
parking and safety technology. These 
bulletins are also provided to many of 
our contractors. Our key contractors are 
required to comply with Land Transportation 
Safety Recommended Practice, Report No. 
365, published by the IOGP . 
We participate in several industry groups 
to share best practices and further 
improve our transportation safety. We 
are active participants in the IOGP Land 
Transportation subcommittee, which sets 
industry standards for upstream oil and 
gas producers, and we adhere to these 
standards. We are also a board member 
of the Network of Employers for Traffic 
Safety, an employer led collaborative 
group that works to improve the safety 
and health of employees, their families 
and community members where they live 
and work by preventing traffic crashes. 
Our Bakken asset is an active member of 
Vision Zero, a traffic safety organization 
aiming to reduce collisions in North 
Dakota that includes participation by law 
enforcement, the state’s Department of 
Transportation and Department of Health, 
and the private sector.
Hess’ Corporate Aviation Safety 
Management System and HOMS form 
the basis of our aviation safety program. 
Our aviation standards and procedures 
frequently go beyond national regulations in 
our countries of operation, and we regularly 
conduct aviation contractor safety audits, 
site visits and readiness reviews to monitor the safe operation of aircraft used to 
support our operations. While our aviation 
contractors have experienced no significant 
Hess related aviation accidents or injuries 
in more than 25 years, we continuously 
work with these contractors to further 
reduce risk. In addition, in response to the 
expanded use of unmanned aerial systems 
to survey our assets and operations, we 
have increased our assurance activities 
to proactively validate that safe practices 
are used and regulations are met. While 
Hess experienced a safe year of aviation 
operations in 2020, total flying hours were 
significantly reduced due to COVID-19 and 
changes to offshore rotations. 
Key Performance Metrics
In 2020, we achieved a 19% reduction in 
our workforce total recordable incident rate 
(TRIR) compared with 2019, surpassing our 
goal of a 10% reduction. Our workforce lost 
time incident rate also decreased in 2020, 
from 0.18 in 2019 to 0.09. We experienced 
no workforce fatalities among either 
employees or contractors during 2020.
Hess’ enterprisewide annual incentive 
plan metrics include a target aimed at 
reducing the rate of severe and significant 
safety incidents. As part of our severe and 
significant safety incident (SSSI) rate, we 
track near miss incidents that have the 
potential to result in severe consequences, 
as well as incidents that result in an actual 
consequence, including Tier 2 process 
safety events and recordable incidents. We 
require that near miss incidents be reported 
internally and recorded into our incident 
management system as if an actual 
consequence had occurred. Our SSSI rate 
stood at 0.487 for 2020. This represents a 
10% reduction compared with 2019 and is 
better than our target rate of 0.489.
In response to incidents throughout the 
year, our assets conducted root cause 
analyses and implemented corrective 
actions across our onshore and offshore 
operations.While we did achieve a significant reduction 
in TRIR for 2020, primarily driven by a 37% 
decrease in contractor TRIR year over 
year, we also experienced a significant 
increase in employee TRIR from 2019. After 
observing an uptick in employee incidents 
in the third quarter of 2020, we conducted 
a systemic review and addressed factors 
that may have impacted our workers, such 
as worker distraction due to COVID-19.0.32
0.080.43
0.18
0.090.35Workforce 
Safety Performance*
Cases per 200,000 Hour s
■  Workforce TRIR
■  Workforce Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR)
*Hess’ workforce data includes both employees and 
contractors. When calculating LTIR, calendar workdays are 
used. A lost time incident involves one or more days away  
from work, excluding the day of the incident.0.00.10.20.30.40.5
2018 2019 20200.00.10.20.30.40.50.6
2018 2019 20200.13
0.050.410.57
0.320.36
■Employee Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)
Contractor TRIR■  Employee and Contractor
Safety Performance
Cases per 200,000 Hour s
 30
PROCESS SAFETY
The aim of Hess’ process safety program 
is to prevent the unplanned or uncontrolled 
loss of primary containment of any material, 
including materials that are nontoxic and 
nonflammable (e.g., steam, nitrogen, 
compressed air), that could result in an 
incident such as an injury, fire, explosion, 
toxic release or environmental impact.
We focus on understanding and identifying 
key points within process safety systems 
that could impact asset integrity and the 
safe and proper operation of equipment. In 
particular, we address:
• Design integrity: reducing risks in the 
design and construction of facilities
• Technical integrity: inspecting, testing 
and maintaining hardware and 
software barriers
• Operational integrity: working within 
operational design parameters
Our approach to process safety involves 
identifying, managing and mitigating 
risks across Hess operations. We do 
this by raising awareness of risks among 
our workforce, providing strong safety 
leadership and maintaining a commitment 
to continuously improving our process 
safety procedures, systems and standards.A key strategy we are using to minimize 
process safety risk is enhancing our 
integrity management program. Integrity 
critical equipment (ICE) are barriers 
and safeguards that prevent or mitigate 
process safety events (PSEs) through 
detection, isolation, containment, control 
or emergency preparedness and response 
within our facilities. We have established 
ICE performance standards, which set 
specific requirements and criteria for 
inspections and tests to help ensure ICE 
barriers are effective. In 2020, we again 
surpassed our target of 98% inspection 
and testing of ICE, with approximately 
12,000 critical performance standard 
assurance test work orders completed, 
further expanding our understanding of 
barrier health. In 2021, we will continue 
to measure compliance with planned 
assurance tests and add corrective critical 
maintenance to our metric. We also plan 
to initiate a pilot of Hess technical authority 
led integrity assessments of barrier health, 
which was deferred in 2020 due to 
COVID-19. 
In 2020, we continued to implement 
the use of “bow tie” diagrams, which 
help to visualize threats, barriers and 
consequences, at our assets in the 
Gulf of Mexico and North Malay Basin. We also completed implementation of 
an electronic Management of Change 
system at our assets in the Gulf of 
Mexico and North Dakota.
In Denmark, we continue to strengthen 
barrier effectiveness and maintenance 
as part of our effort to obtain third party 
validation for the asset’s performance 
standards, as required by applicable 
legislation. Specifically, we are working 
to validate the existing assessments of 
threats, barriers and consequences for the 
asset to identify and mitigate safety risk. 
In 2021, we plan to continue validating 
our maintenance management system by 
conducting a third party audit of selected 
performance tests.
Key Performance Metrics
Hess tracks process safety key performance 
indicators (KPIs) pursuant to the IOGP’s 
Process Safety – Recommended Practice 
on Key Performance Indicators, Report 
No. 456, November 2018. Categorized as 
Tier 1 and Tier 2 KPIs, these are reported at 
an enterprisewide level in both internal and 
external reports.
We experienced an increase in our total 
number of PSEs in 2020 compared with 
2019. However, the overall severity of our SAFETY AND HEALTH
Local Efforts
Across our operating regions, Hess teams delivered outstanding safety results and continuous improvement in 2020 despite the 
significant safety challenges posed by the pandemic and a record Atlantic hurricane season. 
Hess assets in the Gulf of Mexico achieved their best overall safety record in five years, despite the extraordinary challenges posed by seven 
hurricanes and the pandemic. Notably, there were zero severe or significant safety incidents in 2020 on the Stampede, Tubular Bells or 
Baldpate production hubs – including during the six evacuations and subsequent repopulating of the platforms. Additionally, Tubular Bells 
surpassed its combined safety observation cards/BSOP and leadership site visit target by 22%, and Baldpate achieved a 75% reduction in 
dropped object incidents year over year. 
In the North Malay Basin, Hess achieved several notable safety milestones, with employees and contractors logging 3.2 million work hours 
without any lost time incidents (LTIs) across Operations, Drilling and Completions, Development Projects and Logistics since July 2019. 
In May 2020, the offshore production platform achieved three years with no LTIs, while in September the Tok Bali Supply Base achieved 
five years with no LTIs. Of particular note, the North Malay Basin team completed transportation, installation, hookup, commissioning and 
startup of a major new mercury removal facility without a single recordable injury.
We successfully completed a 20 day turnaround at our South Arne platform in the North Sea, involving more than 200 people from 
different regions, without a single known offshore COVID-19 case. 
The excellent safety performance at these assets was supported by a strong safety culture, reliance on established Hess standards and 
procedures for safe operation of the facility, and implementation of a robust control of work process. 31
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPSEs was lower than in 2019 because 
we did not have any Tier 1 PSEs in 2020 
– a significant achievement. We have 
completed investigations of the PSEs that 
occurred in 2020 and are implementing 
appropriate corrective actions to help 
prevent similar incidents in the future.
We also track Tier 3 and Tier 4 KPIs, 
which are leading process safety 
indicators primarily designed to monitor 
risk control systems and process 
safety barriers at the facility, asset or 
enterprise level. Hess uses these KPIs 
to drive continuous improvement at 
particular facilities. An example of a global 
Production Tier 4 KPI is the execution 
of required maintenance on ICE, which 
was an indicator that was again included 
in the 2020 annual incentive plan bonus 
calculation for employees.EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS  
AND RESPONSE
Hess’ emergency preparedness and 
response program is designed to respond 
to actual or threatened injuries to people, 
spills and releases to the environment, 
damage to our assets and impacts to the 
company’s reputation – in that order of 
priority. We use a three tiered approach 
to plan for and respond to emergencies 
that integrates communication and action 
from the corporate level, in Houston, to 
asset and facility level response teams. This 
system helps ensure that standards, plans, 
information and resources work efficiently so 
that we understand and address the specific 
needs of the situation at hand. 
Preparedness at Hess involves our 
emergency response organization (illustrated 
at right), engagement with officials and 
communities, emergency facilities and 
response plans. We undertake regular 
emergency preparedness and response 
exercises to engage our employees and key 
stakeholders, including our contractors, in 
preparing for and responding to an incident. 
The exercises help to define and clarify roles, 
responsibilities and resources. They also 
include notification drills, in which personnel 
practice the communication protocols 
required in case of an emergency, and full scale equipment mobilization exercises. 
We conduct annual training on hurricane 
emergency response and choose other 
topics for training and drills using a risk 
based approach. For example, we are 
planning a drill focused on cybersecurity 
risks in 2021.
Continuous improvement is an essential 
element of our Emergency Preparedness 
and Response Standard by which we 
incorporate lessons learned from incidents 
and exercises into our preparedness 
planning, training and future exercises.
Hess’ Gulf of Mexico employees and 
contractors delivered outstanding safety 
performance during the record breaking Process Safety Events
2018 2019 2020
Tier 1
PSE Count3 6 0
Tier 2
PSE Count10 10 19
Production Operations, North Dakota
HESS EMERGENCY 
RESPONSE ORGANIZATION
ISTIncident Support Team
HOUSTON
IMTIncident Management Team
ASSETTIER 1ERTEmergency Response Team
FACILITYSAFETY AND HEALTH
Hess Emergency Response 
Organization32
2020 Atlantic hurricane season. Led by 
Hess’ emergency response organization, 
our team responded to seven hurricanes 
with zero severe or significant safety 
incidents on the Stampede, Tubular 
Bells or Baldpate production hubs while 
simultaneously addressing the challenges 
posed by the COVID-19 pandemic (see 
case study on page 33). 
At our onshore and offshore facilities, 
operations personnel collaborated with 
our Gulf of Mexico Incident Management 
Team – a cross functional group trained 
to respond to emergencies on a rotational 
basis – to close down and reopen our 
offshore facilities before and after the 
hurricanes. This team not only prepared 
Hess people and assets for each storm, 
they also offered recovery essentials, such 
as lodging, fuel and generators, to those 
with damaged homes. 
We also maintain relationships with mutual 
aid and emergency response organizations 
at the local, regional and global levels (see 
page 57).
CONTRACTOR MANAGEMENT
Contractors are critical to Hess, comprising 
around 70% of our total workforce hoursand performing key tasks throughout  
our operations. 
We use a recognized industry safety 
database to standardize our prequalification 
processes across multiple sites for our 
U.S. operations. This enables us to clearly 
communicate requirements and expectations 
to our contractors and share information 
efficiently across Hess operations. 
HOMS addresses contractor capabilities 
and competencies, and, as part of this 
framework, we have implemented a 
Contractor Management Standard at our 
operated assets. For in scope contractors, 
the standard includes requirements 
from initial sourcing, to contracting, to 
reviewing the work they do for us. For 
example, the standard requires that we 
grade in scope contractors based on 
factors such as past EHS performance 
and existing safety management systems. 
If a contractor receives an unsatisfactory 
grade based on EHS criteria, the 
asset vice president or director must 
endorse a safety improvement action 
plan before that contractor may be 
approved for procurement or provide 
services on a Hess controlled work 
location. If an operational situation (such as an emergency) requires the use of 
a contractor that has not completed 
the prequalification process or that has 
received an unsatisfactory EHS grade, 
the asset vice president or director 
must approve the use of the contractor, 
and asset management must provide 
increased oversight.
As an extension of the Contractor 
Management Standard, we are 
implementing a new risk based  
contractor engagement process, 
developed in 2019, that requires 
certain engagement activities based 
on a contractor’s EHS risk profile. One 
of the required activities is to perform 
“bridging” for higher risk, in scope 
contractors using a standard bridging 
philosophy and methodology that help 
bring consistency to the exercise and 
associated documents. The bridging 
process works to align Hess’ expectations 
with our contractors’ through a range 
of other engagement activities including 
management system reviews and 
performance evaluations. The process also 
helps us prioritize engagement with higher 
risk contractors and focus our contractor 
management resources accordingly.SAFETY AND HEALTH
Offshore Operations, Gulf of Mexico33
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPlanning and Response to the COVID-19 Pandemic
In 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic was a central focus of our occupational safety and emergency response efforts. As always, our first 
priority in responding to this crisis has been the safety of our workforce, their families and the communities where we live and operate. 
Per our pandemic response plan, we activated our corporate Crisis Response Team, which is composed of an Incident Support Team 
(IST) and local Incident Management Teams (IMTs) at our assets and office locations in Europe, Asia and the U.S. The IST took charge 
of long term business continuity, developing and evolving COVID-19 safety and health protocols, remote working arrangements, 
corporate communications and regular leadership updates. This team was supported by asset level IMTs focused on supporting our 
operations and office locations, maintaining the health and safety of our workforce and conducting local stakeholder engagement. A 
Business Continuity Coordinator served as the conduit between the IMTs and the IST, facilitating resource requests and standardizing 
and streamlining communications.
To help keep our workforce safe, we implemented a range of health and safety measures and evolved those measures based on 
guidance from the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and other health authorities and with ongoing engagement with 
various governmental agencies, medical experts, industry peers and suppliers, external industry experts and local communities. 
For field workers and others who have been unable to work remotely, we implemented testing protocols, hand hygiene requirements, 
face masks, social distancing, enhanced cleaning procedures and travel restrictions. To reduce the possibility of COVID-19 transmission 
among offshore and onshore field based workers, we extended work schedules at offshore platforms, reduced the number of 
personnel on worksites wherever feasible and instituted work team “pods” to minimize interactions among workers. We also 
postponed scheduled turnaround work at the Tioga Gas Plant, which was to be part of our capacity expansion at the site, to avoid the 
potential for COVID-19 transmission that could result from the amount of travel and number of people required to complete the work. 
For most of our office based staff, we focused on helping workers transition to remote work, providing information technology, mental 
health resources and occupational safety support. 
In the second quarter of 2020, we began to develop site specific plans to facilitate getting our employees back to office based work. We 
used a risk based, phased approach to help ensure the continuing safety and health of our workers. This encompassed ongoing review of 
key criteria, including local COVID-19 case and transmission rates, strain on local health care resources, the availability of essential third party 
services such as first responders, and the number of our own workers unable to perform their work duties. While the majority of our office 
based workers continued to work remotely throughout 2020, we were able to restore access to some of our offices with these protocols in 
place for a limited number of people – primarily employees and contractors who perform tasks that are challenging to do remotely. 
We continue to keep our workforce informed about updated guidance from government and health authorities, Hess’ actions, and 
available benefits and resources through internal channels such as emails, the company intranet site, virtual town hall meetings, 
internal social media posts and supervisor led small group virtual meetings. 
For more on our workforce support efforts related to COVID-19, see page 37; for community support efforts, see page 24. We audit contractors through annual 
management system reviews, desktop 
reviews and field verification to confirm 
compliance with applicable Hess 
EHS requirements; contractor EHS 
requirements; local, state and federal 
requirements; and industry standards and 
best practices. In 2020, desktop reviews 
were conducted by third parties in place 
of in person interviews due to COVID-19. 
In addition, new contractors working on 
Hess controlled worksites must take part 
in an onboarding process.
HEALTH AND WELLNESS
At Hess, we prioritize the health of our 
employees and contractors both on 
and off the job. In key locations – such 
as Houston and North Dakota – and for eligible employees and their spouses, 
we offer a comprehensive wellness 
program that encompasses emotional, 
social, physical and financial wellbeing. 
The program includes annual on site flu 
vaccines and biometric screenings. 
In 2020, COVID-19 was the central focus 
of our employee health and wellness 
efforts. In addition to the safety protocols 
we implemented to protect employees 
from COVID-19 (see below), we provided 
enhanced mental health and work life 
balance support. 
We also continue to evaluate health risks 
as technologies in drilling and operations 
evolve. In North Dakota, Hess has worked 
with the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) – a branch of 
the federal Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention – to stay abreast of 
changes to regulations and trending 
health topics and to promote the health 
of workers. NIOSH studies have helped 
Hess to improve work practices, raise 
awareness among oilfield workers of 
potential hazards, and find and promote 
ways of reducing risks in our operations 
and throughout the industry.
We maintain a random drug and alcohol 
testing program for employees and select 
contractors at our U.S. facilities. This effort 
includes the management of regulatory 
drug testing programs required by the 
U.S. Department of Transportation and the 
U.S. Coast Guard.34
 Planning Meeting, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia35
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTOur success as a company depends 
on our people. To attract and retain the 
best team, we focus on making Hess a 
great place to work, by building a culture 
of quality leadership; fostering diversity, 
equity and inclusion; creating learning 
and engagement opportunities; driving 
innovation; and embracing Lean processes. 
Through our Life at Hess initiative, we seek 
to deliver a positive and fulfilling employee 
experience by emphasizing our company 
culture, managing the physical work 
environment and incorporating the use of 
new technologies.
EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS
At the start of 2020, Hess had 1,775 
employees. As of December 31, 2020, 
we had 1,621 employees; approximately 
87% were in the U.S. and 13% were in 
international locations.
2020 Employees by Country
United States 1,405 87%
Malaysia 140 9%
Denmark 73 4%
Libya 3 <1%
EMPLOYEES IN TRANSITION
In 2020, we reduced our workforce 
headcount to better align with current 
activity levels. We focused our headcount 
decisions on retaining key capabilities 
and making our organization more 
effective to support ongoing top 
quartile performance and future growth. 
Employees who were not retained through 
the company’s restructuring were offered 
enhanced severance packages to help 
ease their transitions in the midst of the 
COVID-19 pandemic. We also provided 
outplacement services to support them with resume preparation, interview skills 
and job search strategies. 
DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND 
INCLUSION
In keeping with our company values 
and purpose, Hess has a longstanding 
commitment to diversity, equity and 
inclusion (DEI) in our workplace, which 
we believe creates value for all of our 
stakeholders and is essential to being 
a socially responsible and sustainable 
enterprise. DEI is among our most material 
issues. We continue to prioritize this area in 
our updated environment, health, safety and 
social responsibility strategy (see page 11) 
and in the composition of our Board of 
Directors. The independent members of 
the Hess Board are 40% diverse, based on 
gender, race and/or ethnicity.
Hess’ DEI Council provides executive 
leadership and direction to our hiring, work 
environment and development activities. In 
2020, we expanded this council to include 
an executive sponsor from each of our 
employee resource goups (ERGs). (See 
pages 13–14 for more on our DEI efforts.) 
Our expectations for a diverse and inclusive 
workplace and a company culture of 
mutual respect and trust are spelled out 
in our Code of Business Conduct and 
Ethics, as well as in our Equal Employment 
Opportunity, Harassment-Free Workplace 
and Human Rights and Social Responsibility 
Policies and other human resources 
policies. These expectations are reinforced 
regularly with employees at every level of 
our company through training. We provide 
equal employment opportunities for all 
employees and job candidates regardless 
of race, color, religion, gender, age, sexual 
orientation, gender identity, creed, national 
origin, genetic information, disability, veteran status or any other protected status in 
all aspects of employment. We provide 
reasonable workplace accommodations 
for employees with disabilities, as well as 
for religious practice, family circumstances 
and other individual needs. We do not 
tolerate any form of workplace harassment, 
including sexual harassment. 
Recruiting Diverse Hires
In 2020, we continued to advance 
our efforts to attract more diverse job 
candidates. For example, we expanded 
use of a new recruiting technology, 
HireVue, to recruit for field positions in 
North Dakota and the Gulf of Mexico. 
HireVue helps us access a larger talent 
pool including – for example – expanding 
our recruiting to historically Black colleges 
and universities. We also began working 
with the Professional Diversity Network 
to gain access to their networks of 
diverse candidates. We continue to 
advance our relationship with the National 
GEM Consortium, which supports the 
development of diverse STEM (science, 
technology, engineering and math) talent 
at the master’s and doctoral levels. As 
part of the Genesys Works program, 
we welcomed two more high school 
level interns who represent diverse 
backgrounds. We are also supporting the 
Jackie Robinson Foundation by funding 
college scholarships and providing 
internships and mentoring support.
Fostering Inclusion
Hess is committed to fostering an inclusive 
work environment where all employees can 
reach their full potential. We also create 
opportunities in the communities where 
we operate, in our supply chain and in the 
oil and gas industry as a means to help 
address societal inequities. OUR PEOPLE36
In 2020, Hess leaders began hosting Hess 
VOICES listening sessions with small groups 
of underrepresented employees to better 
understand their experiences in society and 
at our company. Each member of our Chief 
Operating Officer’s operating committee 
attended at least one session. Based on 
the themes identified, we launched a series 
of actions to advance Hess’ culture. For 
example, we expanded our ERGs, which 
provide an opportunity for employees of 
similar background – gender, ethnicity, 
lifestyle or interest – to connect for personal 
and professional development. We now 
have ERGs for Asian, Black, Hispanic/Latinx, 
veteran, female, and lesbian, gay, bisexual, 
transgender and queer (LGBTQ) employees. 
We also enhanced our DEI training in 
2020. Building on the unconscious bias 
training we rolled out to managers in 2019, we implemented a new training for all 
Hess employees, “Fostering an Inclusive 
Environment,” that includes an online 
education module followed by a facilitated 
team discussion. A group of Hess leaders 
began training and discussions in the 
fourth quarter of 2020, and teams across 
the company completed this exercise 
by the second quarter of 2021. We also 
trained some employees to be small group 
facilitators for additional DEI training for all 
U.S. based employees in 2021.
Hess was included in the 2021 Bloomberg 
Gender Equality Index, which tracks and 
reports on public companies’ performance 
on gender equality and representation, as 
well as transparency in reporting on gender. 
We received an 85% score on the 2021 
Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s 
Corporate Equality Index, which ranks the 
largest U.S. businesses on their practices 
related to LGBTQ equity and inclusion. 
We remain committed to fostering the 
professional growth of women and 
minorities at Hess. We are a member of 
Lean In Energy, an industry group focused 
on providing women with opportunities for 
enrichment, development, networking and 
mentoring, and continue to provide U.S. 
employees with a corporate membership 
to the Women’s Energy Network. 
Tracking Our Performance
We track Hess’ U.S. employee demographic 
metrics, including the proportions of our 
workforce that are female or minority (as 
defined by the U.S. Department of Labor). 
Despite reducing our workforce over the 
past several years, the percentage of our 
total female and minority employees has 
remained largely unchanged. 
We also track the number of local national 
employees in our international operations 
and report publicly where the number is 
100 or more. Overall, the proportion of 
local nationals and of nationals holding 
managerial or professional positions has grown over the past five years. During this 
period, the percentage of local nationals 
increased from 85% to 97% in Denmark 
and from 84% to 91% in Malaysia.
External Efforts
We take part in external efforts and 
professional organizations that are helping 
to make our industry more diverse. We 
are a member of the Human Rights 
Campaign’s Business Coalition for the 
Equality Act (see page 21).
We also engage with groups such as the 
National Business & Disability Council 
at the Viscardi Center, the National 
Diversity Council, the U.S. Business 
Leadership Network, the National Action 
Council for Minorities in Engineering, the 
Society of Women Engineers and the 
Veteran Jobs Mission.
TALENT MANAGEMENT
Hess takes a strategic and deliberate 
approach to talent development so 
that our employees have meaningful 
opportunities and a clear path to develop 
within the company.
In 2020, aligned with our efforts to 
help ensure inclusive and high quality 
succession planning, we had 217 internal 
promotions and 131 internal moves. Our 
talent management efforts also focus on 
promoting a Lean and innovative culture 
(see page 16). 
Learning and Development
We’re committed to a culture of continuous 
learning. Our enterprisewide learning 
management system, CareerManager 
Learning, houses computer based training 
modules and supporting materials for 
instructor led courses. It also tracks 
employee training and measures training 
effectiveness through surveys and 
evaluations. In 2020, approximately 1,300 
employees participated in CareerManager 
trainings, for a total of around 2,300 hours. 
This represents a decrease from 2019, OUR PEOPLE
2020 Women and Minority*  
Representation
WOMEN  
(U.S. AND INTERNATIONAL)
JOB  
CATEGORYTotal 
Employees in 
Job CategoryNumber 
of 
WomenPercent 
Women
Executives and 
Senior Officers32 4 13%
First- and Mid-  
Level Managers404 94 23%
Professionals 787 253 32%
Other 398 66 17%
TOTAL 1,621 417 26%
MINORITIES  
(U.S.-  BASED EMPLOYEES)
JOB  
CATEGORYTotal 
Employees in 
Job CategoryNumber 
of 
MinoritiesPercent 
Minorities
Executives and 
Senior Officers31 4 13%
First- and Mid-  
Level Managers328 66 20%
Professionals 686 183 27%
Other 360 57 16%
TOTAL 1405 310 22%
*As defined by the U.S. Department of Labor.37
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTsince many of our third party facilitated 
trainings were not conducted in 2020 due to 
COVID-19. (These numbers do not include 
our mandatory safety and technical training, 
which is tracked and reported separately.)
We were able to shift some of our training 
online in 2020, including virtual instructor 
led sessions for new supervisors. 
New Hires and Early Career 
Programs
Passport to Hess is an onboarding 
and orientation program for our new 
employees designed to facilitate a smooth 
transition through close interaction 
with supervisors. After starting at Hess, 
employees can access a structured, on 
demand learning program that explains 
our culture and values. In addition, 
supervisors receive tools and coaching to 
help new hires successfully integrate into 
their work teams. With the onset of the 
pandemic, our onboarding teams quickly 
adjusted to the remote work environment, 
ensuring new workers had equipment 
before their first day and dedicated 
resources to assist in their transition. 
Early career engineers and geoscientists can 
take part in our Foundation Program, which 
helps prepare them for their careers through 
focused training, mentoring and on-the-
job assignments. Over 60% of participants 
in this program are women and minorities.
Hess has also continued to support the Job 
Experience Training (JET) apprenticeship 
program in North Dakota (see page 25). 
Since 2017, 27 apprentices have entered 
the JET program, 17 have completed the 
apprenticeship, and 12 have been brought 
onto Hess as new hires.
BENEFITS
We are committed to offering comprehensive 
benefits for employees and their families.
In 2020, we provided more than $106 
million in benefits to our U.S. employees 
and added voluntary benefit options, such as accident and critical illness insurance 
and identity theft protection, to broaden 
coverage options beyond traditional benefit 
programs. For our U.S. employees, we 
continue to extend all benefits coverage to 
spouses and partners and offer transgender 
benefits and equitable benefits for LGBTQ 
employees and their families.
We provide an award winning wellness 
program focusing on emotional, social, 
physical and financial wellbeing to 
employees and their spouses and 
partners. Employees can earn company 
contributions to their Health Savings 
Accounts by participating in the wellness 
program. In 2020, we provided enhanced 
mental health support during the 
COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, we 
award stock to new hires so that all Hess 
employees are shareholders. 
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
We regularly share information with and 
solicit feedback from employees about 
our business performance, programs and 
processes through town hall meetings, 
webcasts and small group discussions, as 
well as the company intranet. In 2020, we 
increased our cadence of communications 
and leveraged more virtual platforms to 
help our workforce feel supported and 
connected in the midst of the pandemic 
and internal organizational changes. We 
also poll employees throughout the year to 
assess engagement based on their pride in our company, their enthusiasm about 
our future, whether they feel valued and if 
they believe Hess is a great place to work. 
In 2019 and 2020, we maintained a high 
employee engagement score (four on a 
five point scale) on these assessments. 
We continued our education assistance 
program in 2020, with 60 employees 
taking advantage of this benefit. Beginning 
in March 2020, due to the COVID-19 
pandemic, most office based employees 
began working remotely.
During the pandemic, our employees 
continued to look for ways to make a 
positive impact on our communities 
through volunteering and giving. Our 
Volunteer Policy allows employees, 
with manager approval, to participate in 
company sponsored volunteer events 
during business hours. Employees can 
request matching gifts of up to $5,000 
annually for personal donations, and 
qualified charities may receive a $500 
grant on behalf of employees who support 
that charity on their own time. In 2020, 
our employees spent around 1,000 
hours volunteering and donated more 
than $440,000 through our matching gift 
program. Additionally, our Houston Food 
Services contractors spent approximately 
20,000 hours volunteering through 
nonprofit Second Servings in 2020, 
helping to distribute meals to hospitality 
workers and other Houstonians in need.
Throughout the pandemic, Hess has implemented a variety of COVID-19 health and 
safety measures in consultation with suppliers and partners that include travel 
restrictions, health screenings for workers entering work sites, social distancing 
initiatives such as remote working, and the requirement to wear masks. To support 
employees' physical and mental wellbeing at this difficult time, we offered "ask the 
expert" webinars that were accessible on smartphones as well as computers. We also 
launched a remote work resource center including tips for maximizing online work 
tools, cybersecurity in a remote work environment, work life balance, leadership during 
remote working and in times of crisis, and answers to other frequently asked questions. 
We also increased leadership communications to keep employees informed about Hess’ 
response to COVID-19 and to share up-to-date, factual information about the pandemic. Supporting our Employees During COVID-1938
Midstream Operations, North Dakota39
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTEXTERNAL ENGAGEMENT
We engage with key stakeholders including 
government agencies, investors, private 
landowners and communities on select 
issues such as climate change, and we will 
continue to communicate our performance 
on these topics in this annual sustainability 
report and the sustainability section of our 
company website.Hess has consistently been recognized 
as a leader in the oil and gas industry 
for the quality of our performance and 
our disclosure relating to sustainability 
(see pages 41 and 65), and we participate 
in a number of voluntary initiatives related 
to climate change disclosure.
Hess is the only U.S. oil and gas company 
to be awarded the highest rating (Level 4-star) by the Transition Pathway Initiative 
(TPI), a global initiative that assesses 
companies’ preparedness for the 
transition to a low carbon economy and 
their efforts to address climate change. 
TPI complements and aligns with 
existing climate reporting initiatives and 
frameworks such as the TCFD.  
(Continued on page 41)CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY
We see climate change as one of the greatest scientific challenges 
of the 21st century. We believe climate risks can and should be 
addressed while at the same time providing the safe, affordable 
and reliable energy necessary to ensure human welfare and global 
economic development in the context of the United Nations (U.N.) 
Sustainable Development Goals. We support the aim of the Paris 
Agreement, as well as a global ambition to achieve net zero 
emissions by 2050. Governments, businesses and civil society 
must work together on cost effective policies. We support a 
carbon price to encourage the investments needed to accelerate 
decarbonization across all sectors of the economy while keeping 
energy affordable.  
Our Board of Directors is climate change literate, and our Board’s 
Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Committee, comprised  
of independent directors, has a mandate to identify, evaluate, 
monitor and report to the full Board on climate change issues, 
trends, risks and opportunities. This committee is actively 
engaged in overseeing Hess’ sustainability practices and works 
alongside senior management to evaluate climate change risks 
and global scenarios in making strategic decisions. Furthermore, 
the Board’s Compensation and Management Development 
Committee has tied executive compensation to advancing the 
company’s EHS and climate change goals. 
Our climate strategy is closely aligned with the recommendations 
of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD), established by the G20 Financial Stability Board, and its 
implementation is led by senior members of our leadership team. 
Our efforts to support the transition to a low carbon economy 
and mitigate climate change in line with TCFD recommendations 
have been independently assessed by the Transition Pathway 
Initiative. We were the only U.S. oil and gas company to be 
awarded a Level 4-star rating in their September 2020 report. 
We set aggressive 2020 targets to reduce Scope 1 and 2 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity by 25% and flaring 
intensity by 50% from our operated assets compared to 2014 
levels, which we significantly surpassed (see page 46).  
As part of our updated EHS & SR strategy, Hess leadership and 
our Board have set new five year GHG reduction targets for 2025 
(see page 46). These targets are designed to exceed the 22% 
carbon intensity reduction by 2030 in the International Energy 
Agency’s (IEA’s) Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS), which 
is consistent with the Paris Agreement’s less than 2°C ambition.Flaring reduction – particularly from our Bakken operations –  
is a key driver to reducing our overall GHG emissions intensity.  
For 2021, continued Bakken flaring reduction is one of the 
performance metrics in the company’s annual incentive plan. 
In addition to addressing our direct emissions, we also seek to 
fund innovation with the potential to mitigate societal emissions. 
In 2020, we announced a gift of $12.5 million over five years to 
help fund the Salk Institute’s Harnessing Plants Initiative, a 
research and development program aimed at developing plants 
with larger root systems that are capable of absorbing and storing 
potentially billions of tons of carbon per year from the 
atmosphere (see page 49). We also address 100% of the indirect 
emissions from our purchased electricity through a combination 
of renewable energy generated from the grid and the purchase  
of renewable energy certificates. 
We account for the cost of carbon in significant new capital 
investment decisions. We conduct scenario planning that includes 
the SDS, developed by the IEA, to test the resilience of Hess’ 
portfolio against a range of energy supply and demand, 
environmental policies and market conditions. According to the 
IEA’s 2020 World Energy Outlook (WEO), oil and gas are essential 
to meet the world’s growing energy demand through 2040 – even 
with the ambitious GHG reductions assumed within the IEA’s well 
below 2°C scenario (the SDS). In 2020, we once again tested 
Hess’ portfolio under the SDS and confirmed the robustness of 
our portfolio and our inventory of forward investments. These 
2020 IEA scenarios, although they are long term in nature, reflect 
the global impact of COVID-19 on short term energy supply and 
demand. We also consider potential physical risks associated with 
climate change, such as increased severity of storms, drought and 
flooding, for new projects and existing operations.
We understand that a substantive climate strategy requires 
companies to look beyond a five year timeframe. We have 
established an executive led task force to consider our medium 
and longer term climate strategy.
Hess’ strategic priorities – to grow our resource base, achieve a 
low cost of supply and sustain cash flow growth – are aligned with 
the energy transition needed to achieve the IEA SDS and position 
us well for the coming decades. Our business planning includes 
actions we will undertake to continue reducing our carbon 
footprint consistent with the aim of the Paris Agreement to limit 
global average temperature rise to well below 2°C.Hess’ Climate Change Position40
CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY
TCFD FRAMEWORK:  
CORE ELEMENTSHESS’ ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH, SAFETY AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (EHS & SR) STRATEGY:  
CLIMATE CHANGE ACTIONSDISCUSSION 
(PAGE #)
Governance• Maintain the Board of Directors’ Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Committee, which oversees 
our climate change strategy and other EHS matters and aim to strengthen sustainability and climate 
governance through periodic reviews and updates to the Committee charter
• Continue to brief the Board of Directors on climate change matters to help ensure they remain 
climate change literate and that climate change related risks are considered in the development of 
company strategies and policies
• Evaluate alignment with our trade associations with respect to climate related issues 
• Link employee compensation to EHS and climate initiatives, including flare reduction 12, 17–18, 
39, 41, 46
Strategy• Maintain a Climate Change Position and update it as needed to align with internal initiatives and 
stakeholder expectations
• Support the aim of the Paris Agreement, as well as a global ambition to achieve net zero emissions by 2050
• Support a carbon price to encourage the investments needed to accelerate decarbonization across all 
sectors of the economy while keeping energy affordable
• Set targets to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, methane and flaring; continue to take 
proactive steps to measure and manage emissions and flaring
• Apply technological innovation and efficiency to decrease energy use and GHG emissions across our 
operations and continue to explore additional opportunities to do so
• Work with government and industry partners to advance the development of a range of low GHG 
emissions pathways and technological advancements
• Invest in innovative research and scientific solutions to mitigate climate change
• Continue environmental, social and governance disclosures, such as our annual sustainability report 
and the CDP Climate Change survey
• Purchase renewable energy credits, in combination with renewable energy generated from the grid, 
to address 100% of our Scope 2 emissions from purchased electricity and purchase carbon offsets to 
mitigate 100% of our business travel related emissions39–53
Risk 
Management• Utilize an enhanced enterprise risk management process to manage climate change related risk
• Use International Energy Agency’s (IEA’s) Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS) carbon pricing as a 
sensitivity analysis for all significant new investment decisions to evaluate risk and return on investment
• Incorporate carbon risk scenario analysis into our business planning cycle to test the resilience of our 
portfolio against various alternative views of future market conditions, including evaluation of the most 
ambitious IEA GHG reduction scenarios, where sufficient public data is available to conduct modeling14–15, 
41–45
Metrics  
and Targets• Set and disclose targets to reduce the carbon intensity of our operations, applying the TFCD's 
considerations for target setting 
• Design GHG reduction targets to exceed the 22% carbon intensity reduction by 2030 in the IEA’s 
SDS, which is consistent with the Paris Agreement’s less than 2°C ambition 
• Reduce operated Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity by approximately 44% from a 2017 baseline 
to 17 kilograms carbon dioxide equivalent per barrels of oil equivalent by 2025 
• Reduce operated methane emissions intensity by approximately 52% from a 2017 baseline to 0.19% 
by 2025 
• Consider the medium and long term aspects of our climate change strategy through a new executive 
led task force46–53Hess’ Climate Change Actions, Aligned with the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures
Many corporations, lenders and investors are integrating climate change risks and opportunities into their future financial planning. The 
TCFD provides a universal framework to communicate companies’ responses to the physical, reputational and transition risks of climate 
change, and the TCFD has become a leading benchmark approach for climate disclosure. Through widespread adoption of the TCFD 
recommendations, climate related risks and opportunities are meant to become a natural part of companies’ risk management and 
strategic planning processes.
We believe that Hess’ climate change strategy – fully reviewed and enhanced as part of our materiality assessment and EHS & SR 
strategy update in 2019–2020 – is aligned with the TCFD recommendations to evaluate the potential impacts of climate change related 
risks and opportunities on our organization’s operations, strategy and financial planning. We complete annual scenario based carbon 
asset risk assessments to evaluate Hess’ transition risks. We also examine physical and reputational risks, completing the necessary steps 
to be aligned with the TCFD’s approach to analyzing climate related risks and opportunities.
The TCFD guidelines describe the corporate disclosures being sought. Broadly, disclosures should fall under four categories: 
governance, strategy, risk management, and metrics and targets.  41
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTWe also achieved leadership status in 
CDP’s 2020 Global Climate Analysis, a 
position we have held for 12 consecutive 
years. CDP’s ranking recognizes our 
continued leadership in transparency 
and performance as we address climate 
related risks and opportunities. Hess is 
one of only two U.S. oil and gas producers 
to achieve leadership status in the 2020 
analysis, earning an A-. We obtained an 
A- by earning high marks in many of the 
leadership categories critical to the TCFD. 
Access our latest CDP Climate Change 
response and CDP Score Report at hess.com/
sustainability/climate-change-energy
GOVERNANCE
Hess’ Board of Directors works alongside 
senior management and actively oversees 
Hess’ sustainability practices so that 
sustainability risks – including those related 
to climate change – are taken into account 
when making strategic decisions.
The Board’s EHS Committee is tasked 
with assisting the Board in identifying, 
evaluating and monitoring EHS risks and 
strategies with the potential to affect the 
people, environment or communities where 
we operate, or our company’s business 
activities, performance or reputation. The 
Board is routinely briefed by experts to help 
ensure members remain climate change 
literate and that climate change related 
risks are considered in the development 
of company strategies and policies. Our 
Vice President of EHS continued to meet 
regularly with the Board’s EHS Committee 
in 2020 to provide updates on climate 
change related issues and strategic 
initiatives, to review external drivers for 
strategy and reporting, and to prioritize 
ongoing and future actions. (See page 12 
of the How We Operate section for more 
detail on governance.)
In late 2020, Hess established a new 
task force to lead our climate change 
strategy implementation and to evaluate 
the medium and longer term aspects of our strategy. The task force is 
comprised of nine senior executives 
from multiple disciplines throughout 
the company, with oversight provided 
by our Chief Operating Officer and 
members of his operating committee. 
The task force will evaluate three main 
areas: (1) GHG, methane and flare data 
reporting and metrics; (2) opportunities for 
Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions and flaring 
reduction; and (3) feasibility of achieving 
net zero GHG emissions by 2050.  
INVESTMENT DECISIONS
All significant new investment proposals, 
as presented for approval to senior 
management, incorporate the cost 
of carbon as set out in our planning 
guidance documentation. In geographies 
where there is an established regulatory 
framework in relation to carbon dioxide 
(CO2) cost, impacts are included in the 
base case of the investment analysis. 
Where there is currently no regulatory 
framework, we evaluate the potential 
impact of carbon cost as set out in our 
planning guidance. In April 2021, we 
updated our planning guidance to expand 
the evaluation for all significant investment decisions to include a sensitivity using the 
IEA’s SDS carbon pricing. 
RISK MANAGEMENT
Through our enterprise risk management 
(ERM) process, we have developed risk 
profiles for each of our assets that identify 
key risks including those related to climate 
change. For each risk scenario, we estimate 
the likelihood and potential impact that 
the identified risks, including physical, 
reputational and transition related climate 
change risks, could have on our business. 
We compile all identified risks on an 
integrated risk register that catalogs actions 
for managing or mitigating each risk.
Transition Risks
Transition risks are the risks associated 
with the rate of change in policy actions, 
technologies or market conditions 
aimed at emissions reductions, energy 
efficiencies, subsidies or taxes that may 
be needed to achieve climate related 
aims. In order to assess a broad range 
of transition risks, and as an integral part 
of our planning cycle, we conduct an 
annual scenario based carbon asset risk 
assessment (see pages 43–45).
Offshore Operations, Gulf of Mexico42
CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY
Physical Risks
Hess considers the potential physical 
risks associated with climate change – 
such as increased severity of storms, 
droughts and flooding – for both 
new projects and existing operations 
through our ERM and value assurance 
processes. For example, meteorological 
and oceanographic studies undertaken for 
offshore developments include modeling 
that incorporates assumptions from the 
latest climate change science. Mitigations 
to address changing storm magnitude are 
incorporated into the design of our facilities, 
where appropriate, and severe weather 
management and business continuity 
plans are maintained for severe weather 
events. See pages 30–32 of the Safety and 
Health section for details of our emergency 
preparedness and response efforts related 
to the 2020 Atlantic hurricane season, 
which was the most active on record 
with 30 named storms and 13 hurricanes 
across the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic 
Ocean, and with seven storms impacting 
our Gulf of Mexico operations.
We also assess how climate change may 
impact water availability and water stress 
in the areas we operate using the World 
Resources Institute’s Aqueduct Tool.
In 2019, we began an evaluation of our 
approach to physical risk assessment 
to inform enhancements to how it is 
incorporated into our wider ERM process. 
As part of this effort, we undertook an 
in-depth assessment of our Gulf of Mexico 
operations, which considered the potential 
impact to the facilities and infrastructure 
we operate, as well as how these may 
be affected by predicted future climate 
change scenarios (e.g., increasing storm 
intensity and coastal flooding). This work 
identified potential risks associated with 
worker heat stress and flooding of coastal 
logistics infrastructure. However, none of 
the risks identified were unique to Hess 
and would also impact other operators 
in the Gulf of Mexico. In 2021, we will conduct an in-depth assessment of our 
Bakken operations utilizing geographical 
information system tools to incorporate 
climate modeling scenarios to evaluate 
changing vulnerabilities, such as the 
potential for heat stress and flooding.
We also maintain insurance coverage 
for physical damage to our property and 
liability related to negative environmental 
effects resulting from a sudden and 
accidental pollution event, excluding 
Atlantic Named Windstorm coverage, for 
which we are self insured. The amount 
of insurance covering physical damage 
is based on the asset’s estimated 
replacement value or the estimated 
maximum loss.
Reputational Risks
The TCFD identifies climate change as 
a potential source of reputational risk or 
opportunity for companies. The TCFD 
further categorizes reputational risks and 
opportunities posed by climate change 
into three distinct categories:
• Shifts in consumer preferences
• Stigmatization of a sector
• Increased stakeholder concern or 
negative stakeholder feedback
In 2019, to address this potential risk as 
identified by the TCFD, Hess undertook an 
exercise to measure the potential impacts 
of changes in corporate reputation (driven 
by climate change risks and opportunities) 
on Hess’ market valuation. Our analysis 
attempted to use a Capital Asset Pricing 
Model (CAPM) to calibrate the historical 
relationship between the stock price 
return of Hess to changes in our RepRisk 
exposure, oil prices and Standard and 
Poor’s Oil and Gas Stock Price Index. 
RepRisk – a global data science company 
focused on due diligence of material 
environmental, social and governance (ESG) 
risks – produces a quantitative summary 
of the ESG risk exposure of a company, including climate related risks. RepRisk’s 
assessment of the ESG risk exposure of 
a company is based on the company’s 
activities observed by media, stakeholders 
and third party sources and excludes 
information provided by the company itself. 
A company’s RepRisk ESG exposure 
is based on a combination of company 
specific ESG risk and country sector ESG 
risk determined by where the company 
operates. A company's RepRisk rating 
is a proprietary risk metric ranging from 
AAA to D, which captures and quantifies 
a company's risk exposure related to 
ESG issues. As of February 2021, Hess’ 
RepRisk exposure of BBB places our 
company in the lowest category of medium 
risk exposure, which is comparable to 
many other oil and gas companies. 
The goal of our 2019 analysis was to 
measure the potential impact of changes 
in RepRisk scores for Hess resulting from 
the publication of a series of historical 
news articles related to climate change 
risks and then correlate this impact to 
a change in market valuation for Hess. 
The CAPM model showed a moderately 
statistically significant correlation between 
our stock price and our RepRisk score 
when general market conditions were 
assumed to be held constant; however, 
this did not result in substantial changes in 
Hess’ market valuation. 
While we found this 2019 exercise helpful, 
we did not repeat this exercise in 2020 
because we found that measuring and 
valuing reputational risks and opportunities 
is extremely challenging due to the 
difficulty of isolating the long term climate 
change related reputation impacts from 
other company specific, industry related 
and stock market fluctuations. In addition, 
we found that these types of climate related 
risks, for the most part, have already been 
identified through Hess’ ERM process and 
are being managed and mitigated through 
that process. 43
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTCarbon Asset Risk Assessment
The IEA 2020 World Energy Outlook’s Two Key Scenarios
• The STEPS takes into account implementing measures affecting energy markets that have been adopted (chiefly the Nationally 
Determined Contributions – the emissions reductions agreed to by individual countries under the Paris Agreement), together 
with relevant policy proposals, even though specific measures necessary to put them into effect may need to be fully developed. 
The 2020 World Energy Outlook makes a case-by-case judgment of the extent to which policy proposals will be implemented. 
• The SDS reflects a pathway to achieving key energy related components of the U.N. Sustainable Development Agenda – 
including universal access to modern energy by 2030, urgent action to tackle climate change and measures to improve poor air 
quality. The SDS is fully aligned with the Paris Agreement and is designed to achieve net zero emissions by 2070. If emissions 
were to remain at zero from 2070, the SDS provides a 50% probability of limiting the increase in global average temperature rise 
to 1.65°C in 2100; if negative emissions technologies were to be deployed after 2070, the temperature rise in 2100 could be 
limited to 1.5°C with a 50% probability.  To help quantify climate related risks and opportunities – and to 
provide perspectives to our investors and other key stakeholders on 
how Hess’ oil and gas portfolio might be impacted by a transition to 
a lower carbon economy – Hess conducts an annual scenario 
planning exercise as a methodology to assess portfolio resilience 
over the longer term. This scenario based approach allows us to 
assess and communicate to our shareholders our understanding of 
future risks and opportunities in relation to the potential evolution 
of energy demand, energy mix, the emergence of new technologies, 
and possible changes by policymakers with respect to greenhouse 
gas emissions.
Because the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD) recommends transparency around key parameters, 
assumptions and analytical choices, Hess has chosen to model the 
two key scenarios detailed in the International Energy Agency's 
(IEA's) 2020 World Energy Outlook (WEO) against our own internal 
base planning case. The TCFD recommends that organizations use a 
scenario under which global warming is kept to well below a 2°C 
increase, compared with preindustrial levels, to test portfolio 
resilience. Such scenarios usually feature a reduction in demand for 
oil, natural gas and coal, and a growth in clean technologies. The 
Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS) in the IEA’s 2020 WEO, 
which is part of Hess’ modeling, fits with this recommendation.
Considerations for Carbon Risk Scenario Assessment
To evaluate the potential exposure of our portfolio in a carbon 
constrained future, we began by considering the long range 
outlook for energy supply and demand, as well as for oil, gas 
and carbon prices. We have used the IEA’s 2020 WEO to examine supply and demand and oil, gas and carbon price 
scenarios through 2040 in the Stated Policy Scenario (STEPS) 
and the SDS (see iea.org/reports/world-energy-outlook-2020). These 
scenarios are recognized as a leading industry standard and 
benchmark worldwide and are, therefore, an appropriate choice 
for an oil and gas producer such as Hess.
Our assessment of carbon risk is based on these scenarios, which 
are premised on a long term view of energy supply and demand. 
For its 2020 scenarios, the IEA has noted that there are minimal 
short term impacts on energy supply and demand related to the 
global COVID-19 pandemic. 
In the IEA’s SDS, the emphasis on strong early action and the 
subsequent rapid reduction in emissions is fully aligned and 
internally consistent with the Paris Agreement’s objective to 
hold temperature rise to well below 2°C. The SDS is also 
consistent with universal access to modern energy by 2030 
(United Nations (U.N.) Sustainable Development Goal 7, target 
7.2) and net zero emissions by 2070.  
We have not modeled the WEO’s newly introduced 2050 Net 
Zero Emissions Scenario, which is more aggressive than the  
SDS in reducing carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, on the basis 
that the IEA does not provide sufficient public data in the form 
of oil and natural gas demand, energy price and portfolio impact 
information to conduct the appropriate modeling.  
The pair of charts below depicts the 2020 WEO’s world energy 
demand and CO2 emissions under the IEA’s two key scenarios.
World Primary Energy Demand by Fuel, and 
Energy Related Carbon Dioxide Emissions, by IEA Scenario
■  CO2 equivalent     ■  Other Renewables     ■  Bioenergy     ■  ■  Hydrogen
■  Nuclear     ■  Natural Gas     ■  Oil     ■  CoalSustainable Development Scenario Stated Policy Scenario
010203040
Gigatons of Carbon Dioxide
2040 2025 2018 200005101520Billion Tons of Oil Equivalent
2040 2025 2018 200044
Carbon Asset Risk Assessment, continuedCLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY
In STEPS, which is consistent with enacted energy policies and a 
pragmatic view of proposed policies, worldwide energy use is 
expected to grow by approximately 20% between 2019 and 2040. 
While there is a decline in demand for coal in this scenario between 
2019 and 2040, oil and natural gas are expected to grow by 7% 
and 29%, respectively, and account for 54% of the energy mix in 
2040, up by 1% from the prior year’s STEPS.
In the SDS, worldwide energy use is projected to experience a 
moderate decline of 10% between 2019 and 2040. While oil and 
natural gas demand is projected to decrease by 24% in 2040, 
demand is still expected to account for nearly half of the energy 
mix (46%).
While the SDS projects lower oil demand in the 2040 timeframe, 
the IEA states that “decline in production from existing fields 
creates a need for new upstream projects, even in rapid energy 
transition” (2020 WEO, page 21).
In terms of the continuing upstream oil and gas investment 
required to meet such demand, in STEPS, projected annual global 
spending averages about $600 billion to meet demand during 
the 2020–2040 period. In the SDS, continuing investment in both 
new and existing oil and gas fields remains an important part of 
the energy transition (see the IEA chart above, right). 
Approximately $390 billion of annual upstream oil and gas 
investment is required to meet demand in the 2020–2040 period.  
Since the oil price crash of 2014, upstream oil and gas investment 
has been significantly curtailed. During the past five years, 
upstream oil and gas investment has averaged about $400 billion 
annually, well below historical levels prior to 2014. In 2021, 
upstream oil and gas investment is projected to average about 
$320 billion, which is about 20% below the last five year period. 
Even with a major capital reallocation from fuels to power, the 
IEA’s SDS requires upstream oil and gas investment over the next 
20 years to approximate the past five years, at slightly under 
$400 billion per year. The oil and gas industry is a long cycle 
business, and this continued underinvestment is a risk that could 
manifest itself as a medium term supply gap, where recent levels of 
investment are insufficient to meet medium term demand.
Hess’ Approach to Scenario Planning 
The TCFD recommends that, once a less than 2°C scenario is 
established, companies should define a base case or business-as-
usual outlook for the future. The base case should use the same set of 
metrics as the less than 2°C scenario (e.g., oil demand, carbon prices 
and other market factors) and share the same fundamental economic foundations. Establishing multiple scenarios allows measurement of 
the delta between metrics at future points to properly understand 
the envelope within which risk and opportunity may occur.
Hess’ approach to scenario planning is aligned with the TCFD 
recommendations. We have prepared internal guidance that details 
our approach and establishes a specified methodology. This also 
serves as a roadmap for our external verifier to review and verify 
that we followed our specified methodology when conducting this 
scenario analysis.
Our first step in this process was to establish a Hess base case, 
which for 2021 was premised off a $45 per barrel Brent oil price, 
increasing to $55 per barrel in 2022 through 2040, and a $2.75 per 
million British thermal units Henry Hub natural gas price held 
constant for the 2021–2040 period; both cost bases are in 2021 real 
terms. In addition, in the base case, we applied either actual carbon 
pricing for our assets and intended forward investments (where a 
regulatory framework for such exists) or used a carbon price of $40 
per tonne through 2040 for other geographies. Hess’ base case was 
then compared against the various oil, natural gas and carbon prices 
in the IEA’s two key scenarios – STEPS and SDS – running our 
current asset portfolio and intended forward investments through 
these varying sets of assumptions to assess financial robustness.
The three charts below show the oil, natural gas and CO2 prices 
under the IEA’s STEPS and SDS against Hess’ base case. As these 
charts show, there is a wide spread of oil, natural gas and carbon 
pricing across the two IEA scenarios, a key ingredient for 
informative scenario planning.Global Oil Demand by IEA Scenario and 
Declines in Oil Supply from 2019
Note: As reported in the IEA 2020 World Energy Outlook. Oil demand /f_lattens (in STEPS) or declines (in SDS),  
but continued upstream investment is still needed to offset declines from existing oil /f_ields.
  ■  Supply with no new investment
■  Supply with investment in existing field s■  New fields in the SD S
■  Additional new fields in the STEPS2040 2035 2030 2025 2020 2015 2010Million Barr els of Oil per Da y
020406080100120
■  Hess Base Case  ■  IEA Stated Policies Scenario  ■  IEA Sustainable Development Scenari oCrude Oil Pric e Natur al Gas Pric e CO2 Price
2021 2026 2031 2036 2041U.S. Dollars per MMBtu, 2021 Real Terms04
26
2021 2026 2031 2036 2041U.S. Dollars per Tonne, 2021 Real Terms04080120160
050
25100
75125
2021 2026 2031 2036 2041U.S. Dollars per Barrel, 2021 Real Terms45
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTCarbon Asset Risk Assessment, continued
Results of the Hess Scenario Planning Exercise
Through our methodology, we have tested the robustness of Hess’ 
asset portfolio and intended forward investments under multiple 
energy scenarios, including the IEA’s SDS. In the chart below, 
the first column shows the net present value (NPV), at a 10% 
discount factor, of the Hess portfolio under our base case 
commodity and carbon prices normalized to 100%, and the 
second column shows the NPV of the Hess portfolio under the 
IEA’s SDS as an index to the Hess base case. The NPV of the Hess 
portfolio under the IEA’s SDS assumptions is 10% higher than 
under the Hess base case assumptions.
This demonstrates the robustness of Hess’ portfolio against even 
the most challenging of the IEA’s scenarios, aligned with the goals 
of the Paris Agreement, driven by our conservative planning 
assumptions as they relate to crude oil prices and the competitive 
pipeline of future investments in our portfolio.
Validation of Hess Strategy
With the lower oil demand assumed in the IEA’s SDS, industry 
competition will intensify, and higher cost producers may be forced 
out of the marketplace. Our scenario analysis validates Hess’ 
strategic priorities to grow our resource base, have a low cost of 
supply and sustain cash flow growth. This strategy is consistent 
with the IEA’s SDS, which envisions a meaningful role for oil and 
natural gas through 2040, when oil and natural gas are still 
projected to account for 46% of global primary energy demand.
Although recent events and market conditions have necessitated 
major reductions to our capital and exploratory budget, over the 
longer term, Hess plans to allocate the majority of our capital 
expenditures to developing the company’s assets located offshore of 
Guyana and in the Bakken shale play in North Dakota. Our offshore 
oil discoveries in Guyana are among the industry’s largest discoveries 
made globally over the last decade. The Liza Phase 1 and Phase 2 
and Payara developments have long term oil price breakeven costs 
of between $25 and $35 per barrel Brent oil, at point of sanction for 
a 10% return. They also have rapid investment payback and strong 
cash flow generation under a range of oil prices, thereby 
underpinning and validating Hess’ strategy. In the Bakken, Hess has approximately 1,600 and 2,200 locations 
at $50 per barrel and $60 per barrel West Texas Intermediate 
(WTI), respectively, that can generate at least a 15% internal rate 
of return. That equates to greater than 60 to 80 rig years for the 
company, assuming one rig drills 30 wells per year.
We expect that the combination of Guyana’s low breakeven costs, 
along with aggressive cost reduction activities in the Bakken, will 
contribute substantially to structurally lowering our portfolio 
breakeven costs to less than $40 per barrel Brent oil by 2025. As 
a result, Hess is well positioned for the long term to retain our share 
in the marketplace as a low cost producer, even with the gradually 
reducing global oil demand projected under the IEA’s SDS.
In summary, based on the results of our 2020 scenario planning 
analysis, we conclude that it is highly unlikely any of our assets 
would be “stranded” by CO2 pricing including under scenarios 
that are consistent with the aim of the Paris Agreement – and we 
believe that during the projected period we can continue to 
monetize our reserves and deliver strong performance under a 
wide range of market conditions.
05001000150020002500
8001,6002,2002,4002,500
$50/bbl
~53$60/ bbl
~73$70/bbl
~80$80/bbl
~83$40/bbl
~27
*Point forward/uni00A0January 2021, locations generating higher than 15% after tax 
return. Assumes approximately 30 wells per rig-year. Operating cost assumptions 
include Hess net tariffs and /f_ield general and administrative costs.WTI
    Ye ars*RigHess Bakken Locations with Investment Rate 
of Return of 15% or Higher, as of January 1, 2021
Gross Number of Economic Locations at Various WTI Prices *Hess Portfolio NPV Index* 
*The NPV index normalizes the value of the Hess portfolio under Hess’ base case 
to 100% and indexes the value of the Hess portfolio under the IEA’s Sustainable 
Development Scenario to the Hess base case.IEA Sustainable
Development Sc enarioHess Base
Case100110
10%
50100
90
80
70
60110% PercentInvest Only 
in High Return, 
Low Cost 
Opportunities
Build a Focused & 
Balanced Portfolio
– Robust at 
Low Prices
Maintain Financial
Strength & 
Manage for RiskPrioritize Return
of Capital to
Shareholders
Grow Free Cash
 Flow in a Disciplined,
Reliable MannerCOMMITMENT TO
SUSTAINABILITYHess Strategic Priorities46
METRICS AND TARGETS
Performance Against 2020 
Reduction Targets
In 2015, we set aggressive 2020 targets 
to reduce Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 
intensity by 25% and flaring intensity by 
50% from our operated assets compared 
to 2014 levels. We are pleased to report 
that we have significantly surpassed both 
of these targets. Specifically, Hess has 
achieved the following:
• Reduced the GHG emissions intensity 
of our operated assets from 41 tonnes 
per thousand barrels of oil equivalent 
(BOE) in 2014 to 22 tonnes per 
thousand BOE in 2020, or by 46% 
versus our target of 25%• Reduced the flaring intensity of our 
operated assets from 276 standard 
cubic feet (SCF) per BOE in 2014 to 
114 SCF per BOE in 2020, or by 59% 
versus our target of 50%
These results were primarily achieved 
through investing more than $3.4 billion in 
midstream infrastructure in North Dakota 
over the past nine years and strong 
production performance. 
Based on the Hess GHG Inventory 
Protocol, which is published on our 
company website, and as part of our 
target setting process, we restated our 
2014 baseline and subsequent years’ 
emissions in our 2018 Sustainability 
Report to remove the impact of the 
divestitures that took place in 2017 
and 2018. At that time, we decided to 
maintain our commitment to achieving our 
original 25% GHG emissions intensity and 
50% flaring intensity reduction targets. 
In the operated GHG emissions and 
flaring charts shown at left, we reference 
divested assets for the purpose of 
continuity. All target related discussions 
are based on restated numbers, which 
remove the impact of the divestitures.
New 2025 Reduction Targets
As part of Hess’ updated climate change 
strategy and in alignment with TCFD’s 
criteria for target setting, we have 
established a new GHG intensity reduction 
target for 2025, using 2017 as a baseline. 
Our new target is to reduce the GHG 
emissions intensity of our operated assets 
to 17 kilograms (kg) carbon dioxide 
equivalent (CO2e) per BOE by 2025 versus 
a 2017 baseline of 30 kg CO2e per BOE. 
We aligned this GHG intensity reduction 
target with the IEA’s WEO 2020 SDS, 
which requires a 22% carbon intensity 
reduction by 2030 versus 2017 in order to 
be consistent with the Paris Agreement’s 
less than 2°C ambition. This 22% carbon 
intensity reduction figure is derived from 
the SDS’s CO2 emissions divided by primary world energy demand in 2030 
versus 2017. Hess’ new GHG intensity 
reduction target (see table on page 47), 
is based on our operated Scope 1 and 2 
GHG emissions normalized by production. 
This target results in a 44% GHG intensity 
reduction between 2017 and 2025, which 
is more aggressive than the IEA SDS’ 22% 
reduction by 2030, and keeps us aligned 
with the Paris Agreement’s less than 2°C 
ambition. This target is also designed 
to place us in a leadership position for 
emissions performance among our peers 
in the oil and gas industry, based on 
current publicly available data.
Continued flare reduction is a primary driver 
for achieving our 2025 GHG emissions 
intensity target and, therefore, we have not 
established a separate 2025 flare target. 
However, we continue to focus on gas 
infrastructure and flare reduction initiatives 
in the Bakken. Compensation has been tied 
to performance on these initiatives to help 
drive further GHG reductions. Specifically, 
we have set a target to achieve a 7% 
gross flaring rate from wells and pads, as 
reported to the North Dakota Industrial 
Commission (NDIC), in 2021.This target is 
more aggressive than the 9% gross flaring 
rate currently required by the NDIC.
As part of advancing our updated climate 
change strategy, Hess has established a new 
executive led task force (described more fully 
on page 41) that will evaluate the medium 
and longer term aspects of our strategy. 
While natural gas continues to play a 
critical role in the transition to a low carbon 
economy, there remains debate about 
fugitive methane leakage along the natural 
gas value chain and whether that may have 
the potential to reduce this fuel’s climate 
benefits. We are a founding member of 
the ONE Future Coalition, a group of 
companies from the natural gas industry 
focused on reducing methane emissions 
across the value chain. We are also 
founding participants in The Environmental Hess Flaring Rates
020406080100
050100150200250300
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 201498
74
60
5171
5299
■■  Divested Assets
■  Hess Portfolio
 Flaring Intensity (Current Hess Portfolio )
 2020 Target (138 SCF per BOE )Flaring (MMSCFD)
Flaring Intensity (SCF per BOE)180
114164 163174276
192CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY
Operated Greenhouse Gas
Emissions (Scopes 1 and 2)                                                  Million Tonnes CO2e
GHG Intensity (Tonnes per Thousand BOE) 012346
5
01020304050
2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2019 20205.4
4.3
3.75.6
4.6
4.1 3.9 
■■  Divested Asset s
■  Hess Portfolio
 GHG Emissions Intensity (Current Hess Portfolio )
 2020 Target (31 Tonnes per Thousand BOE )2241
3033 33 34 3447
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPartnership, which aims to further action to 
reduce air emissions associated with natural 
gas and oil production. Our voluntary 
commitments to pursue emissions 
reductions through these groups are 
described further on pages 51–52.
Consistent with these efforts, Hess is setting 
a new target, detailed in the table at right, 
to reduce operated methane emissions 
intensity to 0.19% by 2025. This target 
equates to a 52% reduction in methane 
emissions intensity versus our 2017 baseline.
We expect that our continued efforts to 
increase natural gas capture and reduce 
flaring, paired with our leak detection and 
repair program and replacement and retrofit 
of the remaining high bleed pneumatic 
controllers in our North Dakota operations, 
will support achieving this target.
GREENHOUSE GAS PERFORMANCE 
We report GHG emissions from our oil and 
gas assets on both operated and equity 
bases. Our GHG emissions estimates include 
CO2, methane and nitrous oxide, which are 
reported in units of CO2e. In 2014, Hess 
began using global warming potentials based 
on the values in the Fourth Assessment 
Report: Climate Change 2007 (AR-4), 
prepared by the Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate Change, to estimate CO2e totals.
Approximately 94% of Hess’ direct reported 
(Scope 1) operated GHG emissions are 
from stationary combustion sources such 
as flaring, heaters, turbines and engines. 
The factors used to estimate emissions for 
these sources enterprisewide are those 
prescribed by the U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency (EPA) in its GHG 
Mandatory Reporting Rule (40 CFR Part 
98, Subpart C). The remaining 6% of 
our reported operated GHG emissions 
are from a variety of noncombustion and 
fugitive emissions sources, such as storage 
tanks, compressor seals, pneumatic 
pumps and valves. For such sources at 
onshore facilities, we use the emissions factors prescribed by the EPA in its GHG 
Mandatory Reporting Rule (40 CFR 
Part 98, Subpart W). Hess uses other 
appropriate regulatory or industry specific 
factors to estimate fugitive emissions for all 
other facilities.
We also report indirect emissions associated 
with purchased electricity (Scope 2) and 
other indirect (Scope 3) emissions.
Operated Emissions (Scopes 1 and 2)
In 2020, of the estimated 3.7 million 
tonnes of gross GHG emissions 
reported from our operated oil and gas 
assets, 3.3 million tonnes were Scope 1 
emissions, primarily from flaring and fuel 
combustion, and approximately 0.4 million tonnes were Scope 2 emissions from 
purchased electricity. Process operations 
(primarily fuel combustion) and flaring 
accounted for 38% and 56% of our Scope 
1 GHG emissions, respectively.
In 2020, our absolute GHG emissions 
decreased by 0.7 million tonnes compared 
with 2019, due primarily to a significant 
reduction in natural gas flaring in North 
Dakota associated with aggressive 
expansion of our natural gas gathering 
and processing infrastructure. Our 
cumulative GHG emissions intensity 
through 2020 (i.e., tonnes of emissions 
per thousand BOE) decreased by 46% 
compared to our 2014 baseline, thereby 
significantly surpassing our 25% GHG 
intensity reduction target for 2020.
Equity Emissions (Scopes 1, 2 and 3)
Since 2007, Hess has tracked GHG 
emissions from our operated and 
nonoperated oil and gas assets based on 
our equity interest. The graphs on page 48 
detail our Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions 
from 2008 to 2020 on an equity basis. 
These graphs show that over the past 
13 years we have reduced our absolute 
Scope 1 and 2 equity emissions from 
10.8 million tonnes of CO2e to 4.4 million 
tonnes, or approximately 59%. During the 
same period, Scope 3 equity emissions 
decreased from 114 million tonnes to 
53 million tonnes of CO2e, or 53%. In total, 
over this period, our combined Scope 1, 
2 and 3 absolute CO2e emissions have 
decreased 54% through a combination of 
emissions reduction initiatives, asset sales 
and refinery shutdowns.
Scope 1 and 2 Equity Emissions
Our major source of Scope 1 and 2 
emissions from nonoperated oil and gas 
assets in 2020 was from the A-18 Block in 
the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development 
Area. Our equity emissions from this asset 
were approximately 1.1 million tonnes, a 
decrease of 0.1 million tonnes from 2019.   Methane Emissions IntensityBaseline 
Year 
2017Target  
Year 
2025
Methane Emissions  
(Million Cubic Meters) 
Numerator13.16 ---
Natural Gas Sales
(Million Cubic Meters) 
Denominator3,318 ---
Methane Emissions Intensity (%)
(Methane Emissions per Sales  
of Natural Gas)   0.40 0.19New Operated Emissions 
Reduction Targets
GHG Emissions IntensityBaseline 
Year 
2017Target  
Year 
2025
GHG Emissions  
(Million Tonnes)
Numerator2.7 ---
Production  
(Millions of BOE)
Denominator92 ---
GHG Emissions Intensity
(kg CO2e per BOE)   30 17
Notes: Production includes oil and natural gas liquids production 
and natural gas sales. For our 2025 target, we have adjusted our 
baseline denominator to reflect actual natural gas sales rather 
than wellhead production in order to better align with metrics 
established by other oil and gas companies. With this change in 
methodology, our 2017 GHG intensity changes from 34 to 30 kg 
CO2e per BOE.
Our 2017 baseline year data have also been adjusted to exclude 
the South Arne asset in Denmark. In March 2021, Hess entered 
into an agreement to sell its interests in Denmark with an effective 
date of January 1, 2021. The sale is expected to close during the 
third quarter of 2021. 48
Major sources of emissions from our 
operated assets in 2020 included those 
from the Tioga Gas Plant and our North 
Dakota, North Malay Basin and offshore 
Gulf of Mexico production assets, which 
together accounted for an estimated 
2.4 million tonnes of equity emissions.
Our other operated and nonoperated 
assets made up the balance of equity 
emissions at an estimated 0.9 million 
tonnes, of which Guyana accounted for 
approximately 0.4 million tonnes from the 
first full year of production for the Liza 1 
development. Our 2020 Scope 1 and 2 
equity emissions were approximately 
0.1 million tonnes higher than in 2019, 
primarily due to increased production.
Scope 3 Equity Emissions
Scope 3 GHG emissions are those 
generated from corporate value chain 
activities that are not accounted for and 
reported in our Scope 1 and Scope 2 
emissions. We disclose our Scope 3 GHG 
emissions, the vast majority of which 
are from the processing and end use of 
our sold products, on an equity basis as 
described below.
Unlike fully integrated energy companies 
that are positioned to offer a full range of 
energy products and services directly to 
consumers, Hess, as an exploration and 
production company, has no direct control 
over these Scope 3 emissions. Therefore, 
we are focusing on scientific solutions and 
innovative research with the potential to 
address GHG emissions on a global scale. 
Our support of groundbreaking research on 
plant based carbon capture and storage by 
the Salk Institute is described on page 49.
Hess supports a carbon price to 
encourage the investments needed to 
accelerate decarbonization across all 
sectors of the economy while keeping 
energy affordable. We believe that a 
market based mechanism will drive 
innovation for new technologies and lead to a more efficient end use of hydrocarbon 
products. A policy that puts a price on 
carbon should ensure uniform cost of GHG 
emissions on a CO2e basis throughout 
the global economy and should address 
key pricing risks, such as carbon leakage, 
energy affordability and policy durability, and 
equity issues such as regressive impacts on 
underdeveloped communities. 
To estimate our Scope 3 emissions, 
we follow the methodology established 
by IPIECA in its 2016 report Estimating 
Petroleum Industry Value Chain (Scope 3) 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions. This guidance, 
which is currently the industry standard, is 
based on the World Resources Institute’s 
and World Business Council for Sustainable 
Development’s Scope 3 guidance.
Per the IPIECA guidance, we report Scope 3 
emissions for category 11 “Use of Sold 
Products” by calculating combustion 
emissions for our oil, natural gas and 
marketed oil products. We also report 
Scope 3 category 10 “Processing of Sold 
Products” emissions, which result from the 
refining of our crude oil production by others.
In 2020, we sold 554 million standard cubic 
feet per day (MMSCFD) of natural gas, 
which, when used by customers, accounted 
for an estimated 11 million tonnes of GHG 
emissions. We sold 239 thousand barrels 
per day of crude oil, which accounted for 
another 38 million tonnes of GHG emissions, 
for an estimated total of 49 million tonnes of 
Scope 3 category 11 emissions. This crude 
oil, when processed by refiners, resulted 
in an additional 4 million tonnes of Scope 
3 category 10 emissions, which brings our 
total Scope 3 emissions to 53 million tonnes. 
The 8% increase in Scope 3 emissions 
compared with 2019 is primarily related to 
a 6% increase in oil equivalent sales year 
over year, as well as a shift in product mix to 
slightly more oil sales relative to natural gas.
Although not material, we also track and 
report Scope 3 emissions associated ■  Flaring 1,82 3
■  Fuel Combustion 1,23 1
■  Other 19 72020 Operated Scope 1 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
by Source
Thousand Tonnes CO2e
56% 38%6%
Note: The /f_laring total above includes 567 tonnes 
of CO2e emissions from venting.
■■  Denmark
■  Malaysia
■■  Divested Asset s■  Guyana
■  Malaysia/Thailand■■  Libya
■  U.S.Million Tonnes CO2e
024681012
2020 2019 2018 2017 20084.4 4.33.9 4.010.8Equity Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) 
by Country
Million Tonnes CO2e
Note: Our 2020 equity Scope 3 emissions were comprised of 
49 million tonnes of CO2e from use of sold products, and 
4 million tonnes from processing of sold products.   020406080100120 Million Tonnes CO2e114
49 494353
2020 2019 2018 2017 2008Equity Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions (Scope 3)  
Million Tonnes CO2eCLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY49
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTwith employee business travel. Combined 
emissions from employee business travel via 
commercial air carrier and rail in 2020 were 
less than 1,000 tonnes of CO2e, significantly 
reduced from prior years due to COVID-19 
related travel restrictions.
Carbon Offsets
As an element of our EHS & SR strategy, 
we purchase carbon credits annually to 
offset 100% of our Scope 3 business 
travel emissions and 100% of our Scope 1 
and Scope 3 emissions associated with 
operating the company’s truck fleet, 
aviation activities (aircraft and helicopters) 
and personal and rental vehicle miles 
driven while on company business. Due to 
the COVID-19 pandemic, both business 
travel and fleet operations emissions were 
considerably reduced from 15,340 tonnes 
of CO2e in 2019 to 9,800 tonnes in 2020. 
We purchased 9,800 tonnes of carbon 
credits from 3Degrees for the retirement of 
offsets related to a third party landfill gas-to-
energy project in Montana. This contribution 
offset 100% of the GHG emissions we 
estimate were generated from our business 
travel (694 tonnes of Scope 3 emissions) 
and company operated truck fleet, aviation 
activities and vehicle miles driven in 2020 
(9,082 tonnes of Scope 1 and 3 emissions).
EMISSIONS REDUCTION INITIATIVES
In support of our GHG emissions and 
flaring intensity reduction targets, we 
track and monitor air emissions at each 
of our assets and undertake a variety of 
emissions reduction initiatives. Our efforts 
focus on our largest emitting facilities, 
on opportunities that are technically and 
economically feasible, and where we are 
able to achieve stakeholder approval.
As discussed earlier, we established a 
new executive led task force in 2020 to  
provide oversight for our climate change 
strategy implementation and to evaluate 
the medium and longer term aspects of our strategy. A subgroup of this task force 
will focus on identifying and recommending 
GHG reduction opportunities, evaluating 
and implementing technologies as 
appropriate and evaluating capital and 
infrastructure requirements. Initially, the 
group is considering the following:
• Optimizing field development and 
infrastructure plans for our Bakken 
operations
• Examining alternatives to wellhead 
flaring, such as utilizing natural gas for 
onsite power generation or conversion to 
liquified natural gas
• Examining Power Purchase Agreements 
to address Hess’ electricity needs 
through renewable energy, thereby 
offsetting or eliminating our Scope 2 
GHG emissions
The subgroup will report out on these 
initiatives to our Chief Operating Officer’s 
operating committee.Flaring
In 2020, flaring from Hess operated assets 
totaled 52 MMSCFD, a decrease of 19 
MMSCFD or nearly 27% compared with 
2019, primarily related to our focus on 
natural gas capture through increased 
availability and reliability at our compressor 
stations, with reliability increasing 
from 87% in 2019 to 95%; aggressive 
expansion of gathering infrastructure; 
enhanced communication with third party 
gatherers; and improved planning of 
new wells to prioritize gathering of new 
natural gas production. We are taking 
multiple steps, which are described on the 
following pages, to continue to drive flare 
reductions in the next several years.
On an intensity basis, we have reduced 
our cumulative flaring intensity by over 
59% through 2020 compared with our 
2014 baseline.As an additional measure beyond our greenhouse gas emissions reduction target, which 
is currently focused on our operated Scope 1 and 2 emissions, we are pursuing ways to 
help mitigate climate change on a global scale. We are now into our second year of a 
five year commitment of $12.5 million to help fund the Salk Institute’s Harnessing Plants 
Initiative research and development program. As our CEO, John Hess, stated, “What 
better way to help tackle the challenge of climate change than by harnessing the power 
of Mother Nature, which has been capturing and storing carbon since the beginning of 
time. Research being done at the Salk Institute has the potential to be a game changer 
in addressing climate change.” 
Salk’s research is a bold, scalable approach aimed at using plants to mitigate climate 
change. The initiative is run by leading biologists and chemists in the fields of plant 
genetics and biochemistry and builds on their discovery of a crucial gene to enhance 
the natural abilities of plants to store CO2. One track of Salk’s research, the Harnessing 
Plants Initiative, is targeted at developing plants that can store more carbon and keep it 
in the soil longer. The aim is to develop plants with larger root systems that, according 
to the Salk Institute, are capable of absorbing and storing potentially billions of tons of 
carbon per year from the atmosphere. 
Hess recently donated an additional $3 million to create a newly endowed Hess Chair 
in Plant Science, intended to recognize outstanding individuals making a significant 
impact on plant science research. The first holder of the Hess Chair in Plant Science, 
Wolfgang Busch, is being recognized for his contributions and dedication to advancing 
science through research. Contribution to the Salk Institute’s Development of Plant 
Based Carbon Capture and Storage 50
More than $3.4 billion has been spent on 
midstream infrastructure in North Dakota 
over the past nine years, supporting our 
strong performance in 2020. Through our 
subsidiary, Hess Midstream LP , we are 
continuing to execute significant capital 
projects to increase natural gas capture rates 
and reduce flaring in the Bakken region.
• The Tioga Gas Plant is planned to be 
shut down for approximately 45 days 
in the third quarter of 2021 to complete 
a turnaround that will allow for required 
maintenance and completion of the 
$150 million expansion project that 
commenced in 2020. The expansionwill increase plant capacity from 250 
MMSCFD to 400 MMSCFD and allow 
the plant to process a combination 
of additional Hess and third party 
natural gas. During the turnaround, 
we will lose the capacity to gather 
and process natural gas at the Tioga 
Gas Plant. This will likely result in a 
temporary increase in flaring at certain 
sites where allowed by applicable 
regulations. It will be our aim to limit 
this nonroutine flaring, but it is likely 
that there will be some impact on our 
2021 GHG emissions performance. Ultimately, the increased capacity 
gained from the expansion project will 
help reduce flaring in future years.
• As a result of limited gas capture and 
processing facilities, increased volumes 
of gas were flared south of the Missouri 
River prior to 2019. Hess Midstream 
LP partnered with Targa Resources to 
build a new $200 million gas plant, the 
Little Missouri Four gas plant, which 
came online in August 2019 and can 
process up to 200 MMSCFD of natural 
gas that had previously been flared. 
Hess Midstream LP is now able to 
utilize the plant as planned.CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY
Emissions Reduction Initiatives
The following case studies are additional examples of emissions reduction initiatives at Hess.
Natural Gas Capture
We have continued to use technology developed through our 
partnership with GTUIT – a designer, manufacturer and operator 
of wellsite natural gas capture and natural gas liquid (NGL) 
extraction equipment – to recover high British thermal unit (BTU) 
gas from locations in North Dakota that were previously flaring 
this raw, wet natural gas. The GTUIT equipment successfully 
addresses some of the technical challenges associated with 
capturing NGLs from the Bakken gas. The units are modular and 
mobile, they can operate reliably unmanned, and they can adapt 
to the changing flow conditions at the well level.
In 2020, we operated four GTUIT mobile units and two 
ColdStream energy recovery units (14 MMSCFD of capacity in 
total), allowing us to capture 2.2 million gallons of NGLs. As a 
result of this NGL capture, about 120 MMSCFD of gas flaring was 
avoided, and CO2e emissions were reduced by an estimated 
13,705 tonnes. This project provides dual economic and 
environmental benefits because it converts gas into marketable 
products, as well as reduces the amount of gas flared and the 
associated air emissions. Utilization of the units was scaled back 
in 2020 due to the pandemic amid record low commodity prices. Flexible Hose for Freshwater Transport
In North Dakota, we continue to utilize flexible hose to transport 
fresh water directly from the water sources to our wells, instead of 
using truck transport. In 2020, 100% of the water we used for 
hydraulic fracturing in North Dakota (approximately 20 million 
barrels) was transported using flexible hoses, eliminating 178,042 
truck deliveries and 8.9 million truck miles driven and reducing 
about 19,392 tonnes of transportation related GHG emissions.
Utilizing Wellsite Natural Gas for Electricity
In 2020, we initiated a pilot project through a company called 
Digital Stream Energy to take natural gas from a wellsite that 
would otherwise be flared to generate electricity. The electricity 
generated is used to power computer servers. The natural 
gas consumed by this pilot project was 250,000 SCFD, which 
equated to around 1,300 tonnes of CO2e emissions in 2020.  
We will continue to monitor this pilot and will evaluate expansion 
options at additional wellsites.
Replacement of Diesel with Natural Gas
Hess Midstream LP’s compressed natural gas (CNG) fuel facility 
near the Tioga Gas Plant in North Dakota has been in operation 
since 2016. The CNG is partially displacing diesel in high 
horsepower engines for drilling and in water heaters for well 
completion operations in the region and is capable of fueling 
CNG/gasoline bifuel light duty trucks. In 2020, the operation of 
this facility helped to displace 1,230,000 gallons of diesel fuel, 
resulting in a reduction of 3,561 tonnes of CO2e.
Initiatives to Reduce Flaring in Midstream Operations 
In 2020, several initiatives were pursued to reduce flaring at 
individual compressor stations and the Tioga Gas Plant in North 
Dakota. One such effort, for which we collaborated with Kinder 
Morgan, is detailed in the Social Responsibility section of this 
report (page 23). As a result of these efforts, in total, our Bakken 
flaring volume was reduced by 1 billion cubic feet in 2020, which 
is equivalent to a reduction of 81,238 tonnes of CO2e.
Digital Stream Energy Pilot Project, North Dakota51
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT• Over the last 30 months, Hess 
Midstream LP has added 
approximately 200 MMSCFD of 
additional gas compression capacity. 
Two new compression stations were 
built at Blue Buttes and East Nesson, 
and the Wheelock, Sorkness and 
Myrtle compressor stations each 
had two compressors that were 
added. Hess Midstream LP also 
reactivated the Silurian and Legacy 
Blue Buttes Compressor Stations 
and will be activating an additional 
14 MMSCFD of capacity at the new 
Blue Buttes Compressor Station in 
the second quarter of 2021, which 
will significantly expand our ability to 
bring more natural gas to market.
Over the next several years, we plan to 
continue to pursue additional natural gas 
processing and compression capacity, 
which will help us continue to reduce flaring.
At many of our production facilities, Hess 
relies on third parties to provide the natural 
gas gathering and processing infrastructure 
needed to mitigate gas flaring. In 2019, the 
rate of gas capture by third party gathering 
and processing facilities was less than 
expected. In 2020, we made significant 
inroads in improving third party gathering 
and processing rates by enhancing 
communication to share learnings and 
collaborate on improving capacity.
We are continuing to explore additional 
commercial arrangements to improve third 
party gas gathering and processing capacity 
in an attempt to minimize flaring.
Methane
In 2020, our total Scope 1 methane 
emissions were around 10,900 tonnes, 
down from around 12,800 tonnes in 2019. 
This equates to around 272,200 tonnes 
of CO2e (assuming a Global Warming 
Potential of 25), which represents around 
9% of our operated Scope 1 GHG emissions. Our major sources of methane 
are fugitive emissions from pneumatic 
devices, pumps, tanks, compressor seals 
and pipelines, and the residual unburned 
methane associated with flaring.
Stakeholder interest in methane emissions 
has been at the forefront in recent years. 
The Biden Administration has committed 
to review the EPA’s and Bureau of Land 
Management’s regulations to control 
methane emissions from oil and gas 
operations and revise them as needed. 
The oil and gas industry, through the 
American Petroleum Institute (API), has 
expressed its willingness to work with the 
Biden Administration and other interested 
stakeholders to advance direct regulation 
of methane from both new and existing 
sources as part of API’s new Climate Action 
Framework. 
One ongoing element of our EHS & SR 
strategy has been to pursue voluntary 
reductions in methane emissions from two 
angles: performance based targets and 
best practices. In support of our strategy, 
in 2014, Hess and seven other companies 
founded the ONE Future Coalition – a 
group with representation from across 
the natural gas industry focused on 
identifying policy and technical solutions 
that yield continuous improvement in 
the management of methane emissions 
associated with the production, processing, 
transportation and distribution of natural 
gas. By the end of 2020, ONE Future 
membership had grown to around 
40 companies. ONE Future offers a 
performance based, flexible approach that 
is expected to yield significant reductions 
in methane emissions. ONE Future’s 
measurement protocol has been approved 
by the EPA.
The goal of ONE Future is to voluntarily 
lower methane emissions to less than 1% 
of gross methane production across the 
U.S. value chain by 2025. Peer reviewed analyses indicate that a leak/loss rate 
of 1% or less across the U.S. natural 
gas value chain provides immediate 
GHG reduction benefits. To achieve 
this goal, ONE Future has established 
2025 methane emissions rate targets 
for each sector of the natural gas value 
chain: production (0.28%), gathering and 
boosting (0.08%), processing (0.11%), 
transmission and storage (0.30%) and 
distribution (0.22%), which cumulatively 
total the 1% target. The combined target 
for the three sectors in which Hess has 
operations (production, gathering and 
boosting and processing) is 0.47%.  
In 2019, the ONE Future members’ 
cumulative methane emissions intensity 
was 0.33% across the U.S. onshore 
natural gas value chain, the same as 
in 2018. The improvements made in 
methane intensity performance by ONE 
Future companies since 2014 have been 
acknowledged by the U.S. Department 
of Energy’s National Energy Technology 
Laboratory in a number of studies. ONE 
Future’s 2020 progress report will be 
published later this year.
In 2020, Hess’ onshore U.S. methane 
intensity was 0.51%, slightly above 
the 2025 ONE Future combined target 
of 0.47% for the sectors in which we 
operate. Our relative methane intensity 
continues to improve, and we attribute this 
to the continued implementation of our 
leak detection and repair (LDAR) program 
across all of our North Dakota production 
facilities and our program to phase out 
high bleed pneumatic controllers. We 
anticipate that we will achieve the ONE 
Future targets by 2025.
Our combined U.S. methane emissions 
intensity across our onshore and offshore 
operations was 0.22% in 2020, while our 
global methane intensity was 0.15% – 
both based on the ONE Future Protocol 
calculation methodology.52
In addition to these commitments, as 
part of our EHS & SR strategy update, 
we established a 2025 global methane 
intensity target. Our new target uses 
natural gas sales as a denominator, where 
the ONE Future Protocol uses methane 
production. For our new global methane 
intensity target of 0.19% by 2025, we 
are using a 2017 baseline intensity of 
0.40%; our 2020 intensity based on this 
methodology was 0.22%.  
We will continue to report progress on the 
ONE Future targets for our onshore U.S. 
operations in addition to progress on our 
new global target.
Other External Commitments
In a related voluntary effort to adopt  
and promote industry best practices,  
Hess became one of the founding 
participants of The Environmental 
Partnership (The Partnership) in 2017.  
The Partnership is focused on 
technologically feasible and commercially 
proven solutions that result in significant 
emissions reductions. In addition to 
specifying best practices for member 
companies over specific timeframes, 
The Partnership provides a forum for 
participants to share information and analyze best practices and technological 
breakthroughs in order to help the industry 
improve its understanding of emissions 
reduction strategies.
A key goal of The Partnership is furthering 
action to reduce air emissions associated 
with natural gas and oil production. The 
Partnership has initiated several programs 
and allows member companies to decide 
which are best suited for their operations.  
The Partnership originally launched three 
oil and gas emissions reduction programs 
for member companies to implement 
and phase into their operations starting 
January 1, 2018. Hess was one of the 
first companies to commit to participating, 
and we have been implementing the two 
programs applicable to our operations in 
North Dakota, as follows:
• Leak Program for Natural Gas and 
Oil Production Sources: Participants 
will implement monitoring and timely 
repair of fugitive emissions at selected 
sites utilizing detection methods and 
technologies such as EPA Method 21 
or optical gas imaging cameras. Hess 
conducted 850 semiannual surveys at 
421 sites in 2020. • Program to Replace, Remove or Retrofit 
High Bleed Pneumatic Controllers: 
Participants will remove, replace or 
retrofit high bleed pneumatic controllers 
with low or zero emitting devices within 
five years. After identifying 248 high 
bleed pneumatic controllers remaining in 
our North Dakota operations, we have 
begun phasing them out of service. By 
the end of 2020, we had taken 181 
high bleed pneumatic controllers out of 
service; we plan to phase the remaining 
67 out by 2022.
The third original program, involving 
manual liquids unloading for natural gas 
production sources, is not applicable to 
Hess because we do not currently operate 
any natural gas-only production wells.
The Partnership initiated three new voluntary 
programs in 2020 focused on pipeline 
blowdowns, compressor station emissions 
reductions and flare management. Hess 
has committed to participating in all three 
programs and was able to shape the 
Flare Management Program by serving 
as the development co-chair. Companies 
participating in the Flare Management 
Program commit to advance best practices 
that reduce flare volumes, promote the 
beneficial use of associated gas, improve 
flare reliability and efficiency when flaring 
does occur, and collect data to calculate 
flare intensity as the key metric to gauge 
progress from year to year.
Hess submits information on our 
implementation of all of these programs to 
The Partnership, which in turn publishes 
an annual report every summer. We also 
plan to report on our progress in each 
of these programs as part of our annual 
sustainability report.
In line with our commitments through The 
Partnership and ONE Future, in 2020, we 
continued implementation of our LDAR 
program across all Hess operated facilities 
in North Dakota.CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY
Hess Upstream Methane Emissions Intensity, based on the
ONE Future Protocol Methodology  
(Tonnes Methane Emitted/Tonnes Methane Produced )                                         
0.00%0.10%0.20%0.30%0.40%0.50%0.60%0.80%
0.70%
U.S. Onshor e 
ProductionU.S. Onshor e 
Gas Gathering 
and BoostingGlobal 
ProductionU.S. Onshor e 
ProcessingU.S. Onshor e
Upst ream
■  2017  ■  2018  ■  2019  ■  2020    ONE Future 2025 Target53
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTFurther detail on our LDAR program is 
provided in the Environment section of this 
report and at hess.com/sustainability/
environment  
ENERGY USE
Reducing our energy use has the dual 
benefit of lowering costs and GHG 
emissions, and it is a central focus of 
both our EHS & SR strategy and our Lean 
approach to managing our business. We 
generate and purchase energy primarily for 
power, processing, heating and cooling. 
In 2020, energy consumption from Hess 
operated assets was approximately 28 
million gigajoules, 2% lower than in 2019. 
Seventy-two percent of Hess’ energy use 
was directly generated from our operations, 
primarily at the Tioga Gas Plant and at our 
production facilities in North Dakota, the 
North Malay Basin, Denmark and the Gulf 
of Mexico. The remaining 28% was indirect 
energy (i.e., energy used by utilities to 
provide electricity) purchased for our North 
Dakota production operations and the 
Tioga Gas Plant.In 2020, our U.S. operations accounted 
for all of our purchased electricity of 
approximately 840,000 megawatt hours 
(MWh), or a 20% increase from last 
year, primarily attributable to increased 
production in North Dakota and the 
conversion of new compressor stations 
from natural gas to electric compression. 
Based on U.S. electricity generation 
profiles, we estimate that approximately 
27% of this electricity was generated 
from renewable sources, primarily wind 
power. We also support renewable energy 
through the purchase of renewable energy 
certificates (RECs) so that, in total, 100% 
of the net electricity used in our operations 
is attributable to renewable sources. 
To offset our purchased electricity that 
came from nonrenewable sources, we 
purchased 634,000 Green-e Energy 
certified RECs from Multiple Mix Products, 
including wind, solar, biomass, landfill, 
geothermal or hydroelectric, equivalent 
to 634,000 MWh or about 76% of the 
electricity purchased for our operated exploration and production assets in 2020. 
In total, including the RECs, 100% of our 
indirect energy use came from renewable 
sources.
See more detail on our purchased electricity 
use at hess.com/sustainability/climate-
change-energy/energy-use
Offshore Operations, Gulf of Mexico05,00010,00015,00020,00025,00030,00035,000
2020 2019 201830,653
28,18227,596
■  Direct ■  Indirect Ener gy Use
Thousand Gigajoules54
Drilling Operations, North Dakota55
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTProtecting the environment is a core 
commitment for Hess and a central part of 
the work we perform every day. We strive to 
reduce our footprint across the range of our 
potential environmental impacts, including 
water and energy use, air emissions, 
waste and spills. We dedicate significant 
staff and resources to this effort to help 
ensure compliance with environmental laws 
and regulations, international standards 
and voluntary commitments. We have 
developed key performance metrics to 
track our environmental performance and 
drive improvement over time at both the 
enterprise and asset levels. Some of these 
metrics are also factored into our annual 
incentive plan, helping to further advance 
our culture of environmental stewardship.
We collaborate with peers, governments 
and nongovernmental organizations 
(NGOs) to help drive environmental 
performance improvements across 
our industry. We sponsor and actively 
participate in the Bakken Production 
Optimization Program, a research program 
led by the Energy and Environmental 
Research Center (EERC) and funded by 
the North Dakota Industrial Commission, 
that aims to improve Bakken system oil 
recovery and reduce the environmental 
footprint of Bakken oil and gas operations. 
In 2020, we continued working with the 
EERC as part of the Intelligent Pipeline 
Integrity Program (iPIPE), a consortium of 
oil and gas producers leading and funding 
research on innovative technologies 
to detect leaks and other pipeline 
integrity issues (see page 61). The iPIPE 
consortium is one of several initiatives 
we are sponsoring that are designed to 
help meet North Dakota Governor Doug 
Burgum’s challenge to achieve zero 
pipeline spills. We also voluntarily sponsor the Houston 
Advanced Research Center, which aims 
to develop science based solutions to 
environmental issues associated with oil 
and gas development. 
WATER MANAGEMENT
The communities and ecosystems where 
we operate depend on water to thrive. 
Hess operations have the potential to 
impact water resources, primarily through 
our use of fresh water and possible 
impacts on water quality that could 
occur due to well integrity issues, spills or 
discharges. We continue to employ a risk 
based, lifecycle approach to managing 
water through which we carefully assess 
and work to mitigate any potential impacts 
on water resources in both our onshore 
and offshore operations. 
Water management, in particular reducing 
the potential for impacts to freshwater 
resources, continues to be one of our most 
material sustainability issues. In 2020, 
we updated our stressed water resource 
analysis in the Bakken region – the primary 
region where we use fresh water for our 
operations – and confirmed that we are 
not operating in any high baseline water 
stress areas. While the potential for us to 
impact fresh water is therefore limited, we 
know this is an issue of importance to our 
stakeholders and generally for safeguarding 
the environment. 
Engaging with stakeholders on water 
management issues is central to our 
approach. In the Bakken region, we have 
developed our water use strategy based 
on engagement and feedback with local 
stakeholders, including local governmental 
authorities. We are active members of the 
IPIECA Water Working Group, which aims to help companies improve their water 
use performance and reduce their water 
footprint by providing sound analysis, 
assessment tools, good practices, 
credible data sources and appropriate 
indicators. We are also members of the 
Energy Water Initiative, a collaborative 
effort among 20 oil and gas companies 
to study, describe and improve lifecycle 
water use and management in upstream 
unconventional oil and natural gas 
exploration and production. 
We also engage with a variety of nonprofit 
organizations focused on water issues. For 
example, Hess is a member of the Gulf 
of Mexico Alliance’s Gulf Star program. 
The Gulf of Mexico Alliance is a nonprofit, 
public–private partnership that aims to 
enhance the ecological and economic 
health of the Gulf region by encouraging 
collaboration among government agencies, 
businesses, education providers and 
NGOs. In 2020, we continued to support 
projects focused on water quality and 
citizen science engagement. For example, 
we worked with the Gulf Offshore Research 
Institute and the Barataria-Terrebonne 
National Estuary Program, which focus 
on cultivating native plants and grasses to 
restore the function and habitat of critical 
Gulf Coast wetlands.
 See the Shale Energy section online for more 
detail on our approach to water management 
in our shale operations: hess.com/
sustainability/environment/shale-energy
Freshwater Use
Most of our freshwater use occurs in our 
onshore operations, where we primarily 
use it for drilling and completions in 
upstream operations and for cooling in 
midstream gas processing. We also need 
fresh water offshore for some drilling ENVIRONMENT56
ENVIRONMENT
operations and to supply potable water 
to personnel on offshore rigs; however, 
we primarily meet these needs by using 
reverse osmosis to make fresh water 
from seawater. When necessary, we bring 
fresh water from onshore river systems to 
offshore rigs.
Hess’ total freshwater use in 2020 
decreased by 28% compared with 2019. 
The largest driver of this decrease was 
a reduction in freshwater use in our Gulf of Mexico drilling operations (specifically 
fresh water brought in from onshore river 
systems rather than made from seawater). 
Our freshwater use for onshore drilling and 
completions operations in the U.S. was 
29% lower than in 2019. This decrease 
was largely the result of reduced activity 
because we drilled 88 fewer wells and 
hydraulically fractured 47 fewer wells in 
2020 than in 2019. 
As our operational profile and practices 
continue to evolve, we remain committed 
to assessing the best ways to reduce 
water use impacts across our operations. 
In 2021, we plan to continue evaluating 
completion strategies to maximize product 
recovery while focusing on effective 
utilization of water resources. 
The total amount of water we need for 
our operations and our ability to reuse 
produced water varies based on the 
geology of the formation, production 
levels and changes in hydraulic fracturing 
technologies, among other factors. In 
North Dakota, our freshwater reduction 
strategy primarily involves reusing produced 
water – the nonpotable water that is 
released from underground formations 
along with produced oil and natural gas 
– for production maintenance. During 
2020, we used 142,541 cubic meters of 
produced water to replace fresh water in 
our operations – less than in 2019 due 
to reduced production and completions 
activity, which decreases our opportunities 
to use produced water. 
Water Quality 
Our onshore operations have the potential to 
affect water quality, primarily through releases 
that could occur due to well integrity issues 
or spills. Offshore, potential water quality 
impacts are related to releases that could 
occur from well integrity failures, other oil spills 
or produced water discharges. 
We have implemented rigorous 
management practices to help mitigate the potential for impacts on water quality, 
including continuously improving our 
approach to well integrity and to managing 
produced water, our primary source 
of wastewater. In 2020, we initiated 
several projects to better understand 
and mitigate our potential to affect water 
quality. We began two pilot projects 
focused on produced water management: 
one testing new tools to improve the 
measurement and tracking of produced 
water collection, reuse and disposal; and 
the other assessing new approaches to 
treat and reuse produced water during 
completions. We also initiated a project to 
evaluate potential microplastics pollution 
from offshore drilling; this project involves 
testing for microplastics in seawater near 
the three platforms we operate in the Gulf 
of Mexico, in our discharge water, and in 
all of the chemicals used in the processes 
at those platforms.
We discuss responsible produced water 
management in more detail online at 
hess.com/sustainability/environment/shale-
energy; we discuss release prevention, a 
central element of our efforts to protect 
water quality and one of our top material 
sustainability issues, on page 57. 
Discharges from Offshore Facilities
Discharges from our offshore facilities, 
including drilling mud, drill cuttings and 
produced water, have the potential to 
impact water quality. These waste streams 
are either reinjected for disposal or 
reservoir management, discharged directly 
to the ocean (when allowed by applicable 
regulations) or transported to shore for 
treatment and disposal or recycling. In 
2020, our offshore facilities discharged 
to sea approximately 1,500 tonnes of 
nonaqueous drilling mud and cuttings, 
which included 80 tonnes of nonaqueous 
base fluid.
Offshore produced water discharges to sea 
totaled an estimated 1 million cubic meters Freshwater Use
Million Cubic Meters                                                        
2020 2019 20183.65.0
3.8
012345
■  Groundwater  
■  Municipal Water
■  Surface Water
2020 Freshwater Use by 
Facility/Business Function
Thousand Cubic Meters
88%9%3%
■  North Dakota Drilling and Completions 3,20 5
■  Tioga Gas Plant 32 5
■  All Other Operations 10 257
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTin 2020, with an average oil content of 5 
parts per million volume (PPMV) for a total 
of 9 tonnes of oil discharged. This data 
reflects a year-on-year decrease in PPMV 
and tonnes of oil discharged.
At our South Arne asset, we have 
significantly reduced the amount of 
produced water discharged to sea by 
instead reinjecting it into our wells to 
stimulate production. By reinjecting the 
produced water, we are able to offset 
our use of seawater and reduce the 
environmental footprint of our North 
Sea operations. We steadily increased 
reinjection volumes of produced water 
from an estimated 76% in 2014 to 88% in 
2019; we maintained an 88% reinjection 
rate in 2020. While reinjection is somewhat 
driven by regulations, we have gone beyond 
what is required, substantially reducing our 
produced water discharges over time.
SPILL PREVENTION
The prevention of releases is one of Hess’ 
top material sustainability issues. We 
maintain spill preparedness and response 
plans and conduct emergency response 
exercises at each of our assets. To support 
a swift and effective response to any loss of 
primary containment (LOPC) incident, we 
maintain strong relationships with mutual 
aid and emergency response organizations 
at the local, regional and global levels. 
Hess’ international oil spill response 
needs are supported by our partnership 
with Oil Spill Response Limited (OSRL), an 
industry funded cooperative. International 
and domestic travel, medical and security 
incident responses are covered by our 
agreements with International SOS and 
Global Guardian. Our domestic needs for 
oil spill response are supported by the 
Marine Spill Response Corporation, Clean 
Gulf Associates, the Sakakawea Area 
Spill Response Cooperative, Tri-State Bird 
Rescue and Research, and the Wildlife 
Center of Texas. Hess representatives serve on the board of directors of OSRL and 
on the executive committee of Clean Gulf 
Associates, a nonprofit oil spill cooperative 
that supports the Gulf of Mexico.
Our international subsea well control 
preparedness and response capabilities 
are supported by Wild Well Control. 
Hess is a member of the OSRL Global 
Dispersant Stockpile and the Capping 
Stack agreements that would support our 
international assets’ well control activities, 
if needed. In the Gulf of Mexico, we are 
members of and serve on the executive 
committee of the Marine Well Containment 
Company. These organizations provide 
well capping, containment and dispersant 
capabilities, as well as equipment and 
personnel mutual aid.
We are active members of the 
Oil Spill Response Joint Industry 
Project organized by IPIECA and the 
International Association of Oil & Gas 
Producers, and we contribute to the 
IPIECA Oil Spill Working Group in 
support of our international assets. 
We are also a member of the Oil Spill 
Emergency Preparedness and Response 
Subcommittee of the American Petroleum 
Institute (API). In addition, we participate 
in Area Planning Committee meetings for 
Regions 6 and 8 of the U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency.
We track LOPC events through our incident 
reporting system by size and material, and 
we report spills following applicable industry 
and regulatory guidance. We also use 
leading and lagging indicators to monitor 
LOPC performance, including continuing 
to tie LOPC performance to our annual 
incentive plan.
In 2020, the number of hydrocarbon 
spills decreased by 31% compared with 
2019, and the volume decreased by 69%. 
The number of nonhydrocarbon spills 
decreased by 17% compared with 2019, 
and the volume decreased by 14%.Hydrocarbon Spills                                                       
152
47
2018 2019 2020Volume of Spills (Barrels )
Number of Spills
05101520253035
04080120160
29 29
20123
■  Volume of Spills
■  Number of SpillsOil in Produced Water 
Discharges to Sea
13
10
6
516
2018 2019 20209
04681012141618
2
04681012141618
2Oil Mass in Produced Water (Tonnes)
Oil Concentration in Produced Water (PPMV)
Oil Mass in Pr oduc ed Water (T onne s)
Oil Conc entration in Pr oduction Water (PPMV)
Nonhydrocarbon Spills                                                       
113776
671
2018 2019 2020Volume of Spills (Barrels )
Number of Spill s
0100200300400500600700
05101520253035404550
2030
25800
■  Volume of Spills
 Number of SpillsNonhydrocarbon Spills58
We continued to implement a range of 
programs focused on spill prevention 
in 2020. To address spills that result 
from corrosion and integrity issues, we 
continued to enhance our inspection and 
surveillance programs. For example, in 
the Bakken we implemented enhanced, 
real time, remote monitoring systems 
for equipment, including integrity critical 
equipment, that track alignment with 
applicable operating parameters to help 
us identify and prioritize maintenance 
planning and response. We also 
undertook engineering studies and 
mitigation efforts to protect facility pipeline 
equipment from residual fracturing 
proppants, which can impact reliability 
and integrity. In addition, we continued to 
enhance the range of key performance 
indicators we use to track performance 
internally and increase internal 
transparency and reporting.
We are also continuing a multiyear 
effort through the API’s Pipeline Safety 
Management System group to implement 
API Recommended Practice 1173, which 
is related to pipeline safety management 
systems. A key aspect of our commitment 
to this initiative is the evaluation and 
enhancement of our integrity management 
systems pertaining to pipelines.
LIFECYCLE APPROACH TO WELL 
INTEGRITY
Maintaining the integrity of our wells – 
that is, preventing the uncontrolled or 
unintended release of oil, natural gas 
or produced fluids to the surface or 
belowground to aquifers – is fundamental 
to protecting the environment, the health 
and safety of our workforce and the communities where we operate and to 
safeguarding our product.
For all Hess wells, both offshore and 
onshore, we take a lifecycle approach to 
integrity. In the initial design phase, we 
identify the appropriate barrier systems 
for maintaining integrity throughout the 
well lifecycle. We establish these barriers 
during construction and maintain and 
monitor them through production and 
maintenance, and then we add new 
barriers during abandonment.
Our global standards for well integrity 
outline the criteria for installation, 
verification, maintenance and operating 
limits for barriers to be used through 
the lifecycle of the well, and they require 
completion of a detailed well barrier 
diagram before undertaking activities 
in the field; an example well barrier 
diagram is shown on our website at 
hess.com/sustainability/environment. We 
use a combination of barriers – such as 
casing, wellheads, seal assemblies, blowout 
preventers, cement, packers and bridge 
plugs – that work together to prevent 
uncontrolled flow. For example, we use 
cement in the annular space between the 
casing and the underground formation as a 
key structural component to protect aquifers.We require a minimum length of annular 
cement above and below potential flow 
zones that meets or exceeds applicable 
regulations. We also require maintaining 
multiple and redundant barriers throughout 
the well lifecycle, and our minimum 
requirements for the configuration of 
blowout preventers on drilling rigs meet or 
exceed applicable regulations.
We validate well components and barriers 
as part of the construction process to 
verify they are working as designed. For 
example, we pressure-test barriers and 
well components during construction, after 
first utilizing computer models to confirm 
we will not overpressure the component 
during testing. We utilize techniques 
including well logging that either meet 
or go beyond applicable regulatory 
requirements to validate correct cement 
placement between the production casing 
and the formation before completing our 
wells. In deepwater offshore wells, we 
use remotely operated vehicles to verify 
cement installation and proper isolation of 
wellbore fluids from the environment.
We monitor each well’s integrity from initial 
drilling through plugging and abandonment. 
Offshore, barriers critical to well integrity are 
digitally monitored on a continuous basis. ENVIRONMENT
Deepwater Assets
Deepwater assets, which include wells at a depth of more than 1,000 feet underwater, 
can, in certain circumstances, present unique challenges compared to land based wells. 
In particular, because offshore wells tend to operate much deeper and under greater 
pressure, they present specific risks related to the containment of accidental discharges. 
Hess currently operates offshore production facilities in the Gulf of Mexico at the 
Baldpate, Tubular Bells and Stampede Fields. These assets are subject to the U.S. federal 
government’s Safety and Environmental Management System regulations, which provide 
a systematic approach for identifying, managing and mitigating hazards.
WELL DEVELOPMENT LIFECYCLE
MAINTENANCE
(Repair, Intervention 
and Workover)ABANDONMENT OPERATIONCONSTRUCTION
(Drilling &
 Completions)DESIGN SCOPE59
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTOnshore, annular pressures are routinely 
monitored as an indicator of well integrity 
issues; however, we are in the process of 
transitioning to a remote, digital, continuous 
monitoring system.
In 2020, we updated and enhanced 
our well integrity management system, 
which defines the organizational structure 
responsible for managing well integrity 
and the standards, procedures and risk 
management protocols that support well 
integrity. The enhanced management 
system establishes a framework of 
technical standards and procedures 
for each stage of the well lifecycle and 
associated field activity that specify 
requirements for designing, constructing 
and operating Hess wells. The standards 
require the identification and assessment of 
elements critical to well integrity, including 
the barriers designed to prevent or stop the 
uncontrolled flow of well fluids. Moving to 
this structured and holistic approach to well 
integrity is in line with our commitment to 
operating safely and delivering value in our 
diverse global portfolio.Moving forward, we will continue to 
enhance our system based on ongoing 
reviews of field activity and will reassess 
integrity risks throughout the well lifecycle 
if we identify or anticipate any material 
changes to a well’s design, construction or 
eventual operation. We are also continuing 
to improve documentation, data collection 
and key performance indicator reporting 
to measure compliance with applicable 
technical standards and procedures and 
to enhance the chain of communication as 
responsibility for the well passes from one 
Hess team to another. 
 See the Shale Energy section online for 
specifics on our approach to well integrity in 
our shale operations at hess.com/
sustainability/environment/shale-energy
BIODIVERSITY
We are committed to conserving 
biodiversity and habitats in the places 
where we operate. We consider biodiversity 
protection in our decision making and 
management from the earliest stages of 
exploration and development through 
production and closure at every Hess 
location around the globe.We conduct formal environmental and 
social impact assessments (ESIAs) on 
major capital projects as part of site 
evaluation, selection and risk assessment. 
These ESIAs include biodiversity baseline 
studies, as well as screenings of identified 
species using the International Union for 
Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List 
and other threatened, endangered and 
protected species lists. We use the results of 
ESIAs to create mitigation strategies, where 
appropriate. Even where the conditions or 
circumstances do not call for a full ESIA, 
we routinely conduct biodiversity risk 
screenings and impact assessments and 
undertake appropriate mitigation activities. 
In addition, we conduct assessments when 
the classification of species and habitats on 
the IUCN Red List changes in areas where 
we operate.
As part of our goal to improve biodiversity 
management at Hess’ global assets, 
we have developed threatened and 
endangered species field guides for 
personnel to use during field activities. 
We also have a standard work instruction 
New Mercury Removal Facility, Gulf of Thailand60
for all projects involving field activities to 
help ensure we take appropriate steps 
to protect natural resources across our 
operations.
We monitor the addition of new species 
to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s 
national endangered and threatened 
species lists. Through these efforts, we 
identify locations where we may need to 
conduct new biological risk assessments 
and, where applicable, develop mitigation 
plans as a result of these listings. Also, 
where appropriate, we adjust drilling site 
locations to accommodate habitat features 
and priorities for certain species. During 
the 2020 construction season, a total of 
31 onshore pipeline projects in the Bakken 
region required environmental evaluation. 
Of those 31 projects, 25 required field 
studies. Based on those field studies, 13 
projects required mitigations or adjustments 
to protect species habitat, including that of 
the threatened Dakota skipper moth, and 
17 projects included wetlands mitigations.
Hess utilizes third party software programs, 
such as the Integrated Biodiversity 
Assessment Tool, to identify protected 
areas and key biodiversity areas, as well 
as specific species listings. We maintain a 
list of IUCN Red List species with habitats 
that overlap with our operations. (See 
table above, which provides a snapshot of 
relevant species at this report’s publication 
time.) The IUCN updates the Red List 
species classifications regularly based on 
new information and improved data from 
ongoing third party studies, and we update 
our species list accordingly.We also identify IUCN protected areas 
(categories I–III) adjacent to our operations. 
In 2020, there were four such areas, all in 
North Dakota (Lostwood Wilderness Area, 
Fort Union Trading Post National Historic 
Site, Two Top and Bit Top Mesas and 
Theodore Roosevelt National Park).
We regularly work with our industry peers 
on biodiversity related issues. For example, 
we are an active member of the Biodiversity 
and Ecosystem Services Working Group 
of IPIECA. We participate in the API’s 
Endangered Species Working Group, with 
the goal of proactively balancing oil and gas 
development with environmental decision 
making. We also participate in the Cross-
Sector Biodiversity Initiative, a partnership of 
IPIECA, the International Council on Mining 
and Metals and the Equator Principles 
Association. This initiative brings the mining, 
oil and gas and financial sectors together 
to develop and share good practices for 
safeguarding biodiversity and ecosystems.
WASTE
We generate a variety of waste streams, 
including waste specific to drilling and 
production activities. For each Hess asset, 
we manage waste through specific waste 
management plans designed to comply 
with all applicable regulatory and Hess 
requirements for that location, as well as to 
protect human health and the environment. 
These plans, which are developed to 
align with the Hess Waste Management 
Standard, require the application of our 
waste minimization principles of “Remove, 
Reduce, Reuse, Recycle, Recover, Treat 
and Dispose” – with disposal being the 
least preferred option.
In 2020, we generated approximately 
43,000 tonnes of solid waste, approximately 
98% of which was classified as 
nonhazardous according to applicable 
regulations. Our overall waste generation 
volume was lower in 2020 compared 
with 2019 due to a decrease in asset 
retirement obligations and a reduction in field activity related to the ongoing 
COVID-19 pandemic. 
We also disposed of approximately 
61,100 tonnes of drill cuttings from our 
North Dakota asset at licensed disposal 
sites in 2020. These drill cuttings, as well as 
the discharges from our offshore facilities 
(see page 56), are not included in our 
overall waste totals per IPIECA reporting 
guidance.
We have continued our efforts to reduce 
landfilled piping waste by decontaminating 
it (i.e., removing technologically enhanced 
naturally occurring radioactive material, or 
TENORM) and then recycling it. In 2020, we 
recycled 150 tonnes of nonhazardous piping 
waste in North Dakota due to these efforts.
 See the Shale Energy section online for more 
information on NORM and TENORM: hess.
com/sustainability/environment/shale-
energy
AIR EMISSIONS
The normal operation of fuel combustion 
and processing equipment as well as 
flaring activities result in air emissions 
of nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur dioxide 
(SO2) and volatile organic compounds 
(VOCs). Fugitive emissions sources, ENVIRONMENT
2018020406080100120
2019 202005,00010,00015,00020,00025,00030,00035,000Air EmissionsEmissions (Tonnes)
Emissions Intensity (Tonnes per Million BOE )
708790
1412
3121
69
46
■  NOx
■  VOC
■  SO2NOx Intensit y
VOC Intensit y
SO2 Intensit yIUCN Red List Species 
with habitats overlapping Hess operations
CATEGORY SPECIES (COUNT)
Critically Endangered 21
Endangered 50
Vulnerable 160
Near Threatened 16461
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTincluding those related to product loading 
and storage, also can contribute to VOC 
emissions. In 2020, absolute emissions 
of NOx, SO2 and VOCs decreased and, 
compounded by increased oil and 
natural gas production compared with 
2019, intensities of these three pollutants 
decreased as well.
We observed a decrease in absolute 
and normalized NOX emissions in 2020 
due in part to decreased consumption 
of fuel gas at compressor stations and 
decreased flaring. The newer compressor 
stations that have come online in recent 
years utilize electric driven compressors, 
replacing natural gas fired engines. 
Additionally, in 2020, flaring was reduced 
and operations were optimized at the 
Tioga Gas Plant, meaning that electric 
compression was prioritized ahead of 
natural gas fired engines.  
Absolute SO2 emissions in 2020 were 
significantly reduced compared with 
2019. This is mainly attributable to 
the phaseout of processing legacy 
gas containing hydrogen sulfide and 
decommissioning of the sulfur recovery 
unit, both at the Tioga Gas Plant. 
Both absolute and normalized VOC 
emissions decreased slightly from 2019 
to 2020, primarily attributable to reduced 
flaring.
Leak Detection and Repair
As mentioned in the Climate Change 
and Energy section, we continued 
our leak detection and repair (LDAR) 
program in 2020 across all of our U.S. 
onshore operations. LDAR helps us to 
achieve emissions reductions as part of 
our ONE Future and API Environmental 
Partnership commitments. In our North 
Dakota production operations, the 
LDAR program helps to decrease the 
turnaround time for repairs identified 
through LDAR inspections. The program has a formalized process for assigning 
work material flows to field personnel, 
which helps to increase the accountability 
and efficiency of any needed repairs.
For a detailed description of our LDAR 
program,  visit hess.com/sustainability/
environment
REGULATORY COMPLIANCE AND 
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
Assuring compliance with external 
regulations is an important element of the 
Hess Operational Management System. 
Internal assurance also helps us to ensure 
the effectiveness of our management 
systems. As part of our long term 
compliance strategy, our regulatory team 
uses a compliance tracking tool for our  
U.S. assets.Environmental Expenditures
Hess received 10 alleged violations for 
various administrative activities regarding 
timing on submittals, well status changes 
and procedural reporting activities. Of the 
10 alleged violations, seven resulted in 
penalties totaling $34,000 during 2020.
The majority of our environmental fine 
and penalty expenditures ($31,000) in 
2020 were from a 2018 spill that reached 
state waters in North Dakota. Other 
expenditures were related to an alleged 
transfer delay of a waste storage drum 
from one of our facilities to the waste 
disposal facility (no releases or impacts 
occurred) and a well pad stormwater 
collection bypass valve that was 
determined to be improperly closed.Intelligent Pipeline Integrity Program in North Dakota
Hess continues our active involvement in the Intelligent Pipeline Integrity Program 
(iPIPE), a collaboration of oil and gas operators, the Energy and Environmental 
Research Center – a nonprofit division of the University of North Dakota – and the 
North Dakota Industrial Commission (NDIC). Program participants are investing a 
total of $9 million (a $2.6 million grant from the NDIC plus matching funds from 
participating operators) over a period of four years to research and demonstrate 
emerging technologies that can enhance pipeline integrity efforts and then encourage 
industrywide adoption of worthy technologies. Participating operators have also 
contributed more than $2.5 million in additional in-kind donations as part of their 
support of the research projects.  
Each year, iPIPE members review a range of technologies and choose a few for 
additional investment and testing. In 2020, iPIPE members supported the following 
three projects:
• Continued funding  and testing of Direct-C technology, a pipeline coating that can 
act as a sensor to detect leaks. 
• Continued assessment of a low orbiting satellite based leak detection system that 
is able to synthesize data collected from thousands of miles of pipeline into 
simple visualizations and actionable alerts of potential leaks. In 2020, the 
assessment was expanded to test the system’s ability to identify leaks in colder 
weather and to identify vapor methane and liquid leaks. Controlled small releases 
of liquids and methane were used to test the leak detection capabilities of the 
satellite technology compared to mid and long wave optical gas imaging (OGI) 
cameras, fixed wing aircraft and drone leak detection devices. The results 
suggested that the satellite based remote methane detection was effective. 
• Funded and laid the groundwork to test a new satellite based leak detection 
technology with different detection methods and opportunities for identifying 
leaks compared to the technology previously assessed, which will launch in 2021. 
We will continue to test the effectiveness of these systems compared to our current 
standard OGI camera based LDAR systems, maintaining our current LDAR practices until 
remote sensing systems are further improved and accepted as regulatory best practice. 62
PERFORMANCE DATA
This table contains a subset of our publicly reported performance data. An expanded version of this table, which includes cross references  
to supporting narratives in this sustainability report, can be found at hess.com/sustainability/performance-data/key-sustainability-metrics. 
Our annual report, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Form 10-K filing and proxy statement, which can be found at  
hess.com/investors, provide more detail on our financial and governance information. A copy of our annual EEO-1 Report to the U.S. Equal 
Employment Opportunity Commission, which includes additional detail on our diversity metrics, can be found at hess.com/sustainability/
how-we-operate/diversity-and-inclusion.
UNITS 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Business Performance
Sales and other operating revenue $ Million 4,667 6,495 6,323 5,466 4,762
Net income (loss) attributable to Hess Corporation $ Million (3,093) (408) (282) (4,074) (6,132)
Total assets $ Million 18,821 21,782 21,433 23,112 28,621
Total debt (including finance lease obligations) $ Million 8,534 7,397 6,672 6,977 6,806
Total equity $ Million 6,335 9,706 10,888 12,354 15,591
Debt to capitalization ratio % 57.4 43.2 38.0 36.1 30.4
Exploration and Production
Total net equity hydrocarbon production* Thousand BOE/D 331 311 277 306 322
Total operated hydrocarbon production** Thousand BOE/D 454 394 323 340 361
Proved reserves (total) Million BOE 1,170 1,197 1,192 1,154 1,109
Liquids (crude oil (light and medium oils), condensate & 
natural gas liquids)%78 78 75 72 74
Gas % 22 22 25 28 26
Reserve life Years 9 10 12 10 9
Replaced production (excluding asset sales) % 95 104 170 351 119
Selected Economic Metrics
Capital and exploration expenditures $ Million 2,039 3,159 2,340 2,168 2,154
Income tax expense/(benefit) $ Million (11) 461 335 (1,837) 2,222
Royalties and other payments to governments $ Million 388 580 468 379 330
Cash dividends paid to shareholders $ Million 309 316 345 363 350
Employee wages and benefits (U.S.) $ Million 591 594 598 603 707
Interest expense before income taxes $ Million 468 380 399 325 338
Operating costs $/BOE 10 12 13 14 16
Supplier spend (approximate) $ Billion 3 4 4 5 6
Total social investment 
 $ Million 11 8 7 14 20
Nitrogen oxides (NOX) taxes $ Million 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.8 0.8
Our People
Number of permanent employees # 1,621 1,775 1,708 2,075 2,304
U.S. % 87 86 86 85 83
International % 13 14 14 15 17
Part-time employees % <1 <1 <1 <1 <1
Full-time employees % 100 100 100 100 100
Employee turnover – voluntary % 3 6 6 5 5
Employee layoffs % 13 0 20 13 18
Female employees (U.S. and International) % 26 26 26 28 27
Minority employees (U.S.) % 22 22 22 23 25
Employees represented by collective bargaining agreements % 2 2 2 2 2
Safety Performance
Fatalities – workforce (employees + contractors) # 0 0 0 0 0
Hours worked – workforce Million hours 13.2 16.0 14.9 20.8 21.7
Employee total recordable incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.32 0.05 0.13 0.09 0.10
Contractor total recordable incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.36 0.57 0.41 0.31 0.50
Workforce total recordable incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.35 0.43 0.32 0.24 0.39
Employee lost time incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.09 0.00 0.00 0.03 0.06
Contractor lost time incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.09 0.24 0.12 0.10 0.15
Workforce lost time incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.09 0.18 0.08 0.08 0.13
Employee occupational illness rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.00 0.05 0.13 0.06 0.00
Contractor occupational illness rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.05 0.12 0.02 0.08 0.14
Workforce occupational illness rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.03 0.10 0.05 0.08 0.10
Products with Safety Data Sheets % 100 100 100 100 100
 *Total net hydrocarbons produced are equity share values from Hess' SEC Form 10-K.
**Total operated hydrocarbon production is used for intensity metrics (i.e., flaring, GHG emissions, energy and other air emissions).
Total includes investments associated with joint venture operations, as well as noncash or "in-kind" contributions.
§  The rates reflected above for incidents and illness do not account for COVID-19 cases that were determined to be work related on the basis that an alternative explanation for how 
an employee contracted the disease could not be identified. While not included in our rates, these cases are recorded on Hess’ OSHA Injury and Illness logs, where applicable.63
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTUNITS 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbons MMSCF 18,896 25,828 18,797 22,009 26,991
Flaring intensity* SCF/BOE 114 180 163 164 174
Operated direct emissions (Scope 1) Million tonnes CO2e 3.3 3.9 3.6 3.7 4.1
    Carbon dioxide Million tonnes CO2e 3.0 3.6 3.3 3.4 3.7
    Methane Thousand tonnes CO2e 272.2 319.4 283.0 313.4 296.9
    Nitrous oxide Thousand tonnes CO2e 2.1 2.5 2.7 2.7 2.3
Operated direct emissions (Scope 1) by source       
Flaring/venting % 56 61 52 52 52
Fuel combustion % 38 34 43 42 43
Other % 6 6 5 6 5
Operated indirect emissions (Scope 2) Million tonnes CO2e 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.4 0.5
    Carbon dioxide Million tonnes CO2e 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.4 0.5
    Methane Thousand tonnes CO2e 1.1 1.1 0.8 0.9 0.2
    Nitrous oxide Thousand tonnes CO2e 1.9 1.9 1.6 1.9 2.4
Operated GHG emissions intensity* Tonnes CO2e/thousand BOE 22 30 34 34 33
Equity (Scopes 1 and 2) GHG emissions Million tonnes CO2e 4.4 4.3 3.9 4.0 4.2
Equity Scope 3 emissions Million tonnes CO2e 53.1 49.2 43.4 48.8 51.6
Energy Use
Production energy intensity* Gigajoules/BOE 0.17 0.20 0.26 0.27 0.29
Operated direct energy use Thousand gigajoules 19,854 21,650 25,064 25,831 29,973
Operated indirect energy use (gross) Thousand gigajoules 7,742 6,532 5,589 7,290 8,273
Net purchased electricity by primary energy source** Thousand MWh 839 708 606 790 896
Green-e certified renewable energy certificates (wind power) Thousand MWh 634 531 70 90 100
Freshwater Use
Groundwater Million cubic meters 0.5 1.0 1.5 5.6 5.7
Municipal water Million cubic meters 0.7 0.9 0.8 1.2 0.6
Surface water Million cubic meters 2.5 3.2 1.6 0.8 1.2
Total fresh water Million cubic meters 3.6 5.0 3.8 7.7 7.6
Reused/recycled (estimated) ◊ % 3.9 3.6 3.3 7.7 14.5
Solid Waste
Nonhazardous Thousand tonnes 42.0 107.0 45.4 154.4 92.5
Hazardous Thousand tonnes 1.0 0.8 1.7 2.6 0.9
Liquid Waste†
Nonhazardous waste Thousand cubic meters 200 542 141 48 73
Hazardous waste Thousand cubic meters 0 0 0 0 11
Spills
Hydrocarbon spills – number # 20 29 29 52 46
Hydrocarbon spills – volume Barrels 47 152 123 245 308
Nonhydrocarbon spills – number # 25 30 20 22 42
Nonhydrocarbon spills – volume Barrels 671 776 113 581 1,104
Air Emissions (Excludes GHGs)*
Sulfur dioxide (SO2) Tonnes 500 1,711 1,655 2,987 3,804
SO2 intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 3 12 14 24 29
NOX Tonnes 7,629 9,909 14,306 12,665 10,261
NOX intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 46 69 121 102 77
Volatile organic compounds (VOC) Tonnes 11,659 13,000 10,303 10,724 9,441
VOC intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 70 90 87 86 71
Exploration and Production Discharges
Oil in produced water to sea Tonnes 9 16 13 70 87
Oil in produced water to sea PPMV 5 6 10 17 18
Produced water to sea Million cubic meters 1 2 1 6 6
Other Environmental Indicators
Environmental fines and penalties – operated $ Thousand 34 7 75 842 24
Environmental expenditures – remediation $ Million 15 20 15 15 10
Environmental reserve $ Million 65 70 80 80 80
*The annual gross operated hydrocarbon production (normalization factor) for 2020 was 166,044,374 BOE.
** Third party power generation.
† Liquid waste totals include wastewater treatment and deep well disposal.
◊ Reused/recycled water in 2018, 2019 and 2020 represents the percentage of total Bakken produced water that was reused in those years. By reusing 142,000 cubic meters of 
produced water for well maintenance in 2018, 223,000 cubic meters in 2019 and 143,000 cubic meters in 2020, we have been able to offset freshwater use in those same amounts.64
ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was engaged by Hess Corporation (Hess) to provide assurance on the 2020 Sustainability 
Report (the Report).    
Engagement Summary
Scope: Whether the Report is fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria.
Reporting Criteria: The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards (Core option).
Assurance Standard: ERM CVS’s assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised).
Assurance Level: Limited assurance. 
Respective 
Responsibilities:•  Hess is responsible for preparing the Report and for its correct presentation, including disclosure of the reporting 
criteria and boundary.    
•  ERM CVS’s responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities performed 
and exercising our professional judgment. 
OUR CONCLUSION
Based on our activities, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the Report is not fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance 
with the GRI Standards (Core option).
OUR ASSURANCE ACTIVITIES
We planned and performed our work to obtain all the information and explanations that we believe were necessary to provide a basis for our 
assurance conclusion. A multidisciplinary team of sustainability and assurance specialists performed the following activities: 
•    A review of external media reporting relating to Hess to identify relevant sustainability issues in the reporting period.
•    Interviews with relevant staff to understand Hess’ sustainability strategy, policies and management systems.
•  Interviews with relevant staff to understand and evaluate the data management systems and processes (including IT systems and internal 
review processes) used for collecting and reporting the information.
•    Virtual “visits” to Hess’ operations in North Dakota and the North Malay Basin, to verify the source data for the assets’ sustainability 
performance indicators for 2020 and to review sustainability management implementation at the asset level.
•    An analytical review of the 2020 data for the sustainability performance indicators from all assets and a check on the completeness and 
accuracy of the data consolidation at the Hess corporate level.
•       A virtual “visit” to Hess’ head office in Houston, Texas to review the consolidation process and the results of the internal data validation process, 
and to conduct interviews with subject matter experts regarding the content of the Report.
•       A review of samples of documentary evidence, including internal and external documents, relating to the assertions made regarding 2020 
sustainability performance and activities in the Report.
•    A review of selected evidence related to the design, information collection, and production of the Report in accordance with GRI requirements.
•    A review of the presentation of information relevant to the scope of our work in the Report to ensure consistency with our findings.
THE LIMITATIONS OF OUR ENGAGEMENT
The reliability of the assured data is subject to inherent uncertainties, given the available methods for determining, calculating or estimating the 
underlying information. It is important to understand our assurance conclusions in this context.
Due to COVID-19 related travel restrictions our head office and site visits to Hess’ operations for this year’s assurance engagement were 
conducted on a wholly virtual basis via tele- and video conference calls. This approach to conducting head office and site visits does not affect 
our limited assurance conclusion above. However, it is possible that in person visits may have identified errors and omissions that we did not 
discover through the alternative virtual approach. 
OUR OBSERVATIONS
We have provided Hess with a separate detailed management report including our observations. INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT
Beth Wyke
Partner, Head of Corporate Assurance 
25 June 2021 
ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that ERM CVS conducts for clients is solely related to independent assurance activities and 
auditor training. Our processes are designed and implemented to ensure that the work we undertake with clients is free from bias and conflict of 
interest. ERM CVS and the staff who have undertaken this engagement work have provided no consultancy-related services to Hess in any respect.ERM Certification and Verification Services Inc.
www.ermcvs.com
Email: post@ermcvs.com
65
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTDesign: incdesign.comAWARDS AND RECOGNITION 
SUSTAINABILITY
• CDP Climate Change leadership status,  
12 consecutive years
• Dow Jones Sustainability Index North 
America, 11 consecutive years
• 3BL Media’s 100 Best Corporate Citizens, 
13 consecutive years; No. 1 oil and gas 
company
• Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index; only 
U.S. oil and gas producer to be included
• STOXX Global ESG Leaders Index,  
8 consecutive years
• MSCI AA ESG Rating, 10 consecutive years• FTSE4Good U.S. Index, 8 consecutive years 
• Newsweek magazine’s America’s Most 
Responsible Companies; highest ranked  
oil and gas producer
• Transition Pathway Initiative; only U.S.  
oil and gas company to achieve a  
Level 4-star rating
• Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate 
Equality Index; top third of oil and gas 
companies
• Springbuk's 2020 Healthiest Employers of 
Texas Award; 7th place WORKFORCE
• Minority Engineer magazine’s Top 50 
Employers
• STEM Workforce Diversity magazine’s  
Top 50 Employers, 12 consecutive years
• Hispanic Network magazine’s Best of the 
Best Employers
• Black EOE Journal’s Best of the Best 
Employers
• Careers and the disABLED magazine’s  
Top 50 Employers, 10 consecutive years
• Woman Engineer magazine’s Top 50 
Employers, 9 consecutive years
• Equal Opportunity magazine’s Top 50 
Employers, 2 consecutive years
This report contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning 
of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 
21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Words 
such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “guidance,” 
“could,” “may,” “should,” “would,” “believe,” “intend,” “project,” “plan,” 
“predict,” “will,” “target” and similar expressions identify forward-looking 
statements, which are not historical in nature. Our forward-looking 
statements may include, without limitation: our future financial and 
operational results; our business strategy; estimates of our crude oil 
and natural gas reserves and levels of production; benchmark prices 
of crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas and our associated 
realized price differentials; our projected budget and capital and 
exploratory expenditures; expected timing and completion of our 
development projects and proposed asset sale; future economic 
and market conditions in the oil and gas industry; and information 
about sustainability goals and targets and planned social, safety and 
environmental policies, programs and initiatives.
Forward-looking statements are based on our current understanding, 
assessments, estimates and projections of relevant factors and 
reasonable assumptions about the future. Forward-looking statements 
are subject to certain known and unknown risks and uncertainties 
that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical 
experience and our current projections or expectations of future 
results expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. 
The following important factors could cause actual results to differ 
materially from those in our forward-looking statements: fluctuations 
in market prices of crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas and 
competition in the oil and gas exploration and production industry, 
including as a result of COVID-19; reduced demand for our products, 
including due to COVID-19 or the outbreak of any other public health 
threat, or due to the impact of competing or alternative energy 
products and political conditions and events; potential failures or 
delays in increasing oil and gas reserves, including as a result of 
unsuccessful exploration activity, drilling risks and unforeseen reservoir conditions, and in achieving expected production levels; changes in 
tax, property, contract and other laws, regulations and governmental 
actions applicable to our business, including legislative and regulatory 
initiatives regarding environmental concerns, such as measures to 
limit greenhouse gas emissions and flaring as well as fracking bans; 
disruption or interruption of our operations due to catastrophic events, 
such as accidents, severe weather, geological events, shortages of 
skilled labor, cyber-attacks or health measures related to COVID-19; 
the ability of our contractual counterparties to satisfy their obligations 
to us, including the operation of joint ventures under which we 
may not control; the ability to satisfy the closing conditions of the 
proposed asset sale; unexpected changes in technical requirements 
for constructing, modifying or operating exploration and production 
facilities and/or the inability to timely obtain or maintain necessary 
permits; availability and costs of employees and other personnel, 
drilling rigs, equipment, supplies and other required services; any 
limitations on our access to capital or increase in our cost of capital, 
including as a result of weakness in the oil and gas industry or 
negative outcomes within commodity and financial markets; liability 
resulting from litigation, including heightened risks associated with 
being a general partner of Hess Midstream LP; and other factors 
described in Item 1A—Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 
10-K and any additional risks described in our other filings with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission.
As and when made, we believe that our forward-looking statements 
are reasonable. However, given these risks and uncertainties, caution 
should be taken not to place undue reliance on any such forward-
looking statements since such statements speak only as of the date 
when made and there can be no assurance that such forward-looking 
statements will occur and actual results may differ materially from 
those contained in any forward-looking statement we make. Except as 
required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise 
any forward-looking statements, whether because of new information, 
future events or otherwise.SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTSLEARN MORE AT  
WWW.HESS.COM/SUSTAINABILITY
www.hess.comSOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
A review of social responsibility as our way of doing business
www.hess.com/sustainability/social-responsibility
CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY
Balancing the world’s growing energy needs with responsible 
greenhouse gas emissions management
www.hess.com/sustainability/climate-change-energy
SAFETY AND HEALTH
Aiming to get everyone, everywhere, every day, home safe
www.hess.com/sustainability/safety-health
ENVIRONMENT
Responsible management of our environmental footprint
www.hess.com/sustainability/environment
OUR PEOPLE
Creating an inclusive culture and high quality workforce 
that innovates, leads and learns
www.hess.com/careers/life-at-hess
GRI CONTENT INDEX
Performance against GRI Standards indicators
www.hess.com/sustainability/sustainability-reports/GRI-Index
