2007 CORPORATE  
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
2007 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
1185 Avenue of the Americas
New York, NY 10036
www.hess.comThis report covers the principal facilities and assets operated 
by Hess Corporation and its subsidiaries during calendar year 2007. The format of this report follows the Global Reporting  Initiative (GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and also the joint International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association and the American Petroleum Institute’s Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Sustainability Reporting.
Environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & 
SR) metrics refer to gross figures from operated facilities. Data and information concerning contracted activities are included where contracts dictate that Hess has overall responsibility for those operations. With the exception of net equity greenhouse gas emissions this report does not include EHS & SR data on operations in which the company has an equity interest but which are operated by other companies. In order to make  
representative comparisons year on year we report many metrics as a normalized rate based on hours worked or on operated production and throughput.Hess has adopted the GRI Reporting Guidance for Boundary Setting for reporting data on joint venture companies where we have significant influence, but not direct operational control. These include the HOVENSA Refinery in the United States Virgin Islands and the Joint Development Area in Malaysia/Thailand. Data pertaining to these joint ventures is presented separately from Hess operated data. Data from our SonaHess joint venture are included in Hess totals to facilitate comparisons with previous years. For joint ventures, data gaps may exist where reporting practices and definitions were not fully aligned with Hess in 2007. We are working to address these data gaps. In addition, we are in the process of evaluating data collection for our recently acquired assets in Russia, which we have  designated as an asset in transition.
For copies of the data in tabular format referred to in this  
report, please visit our web based report.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
01 Our Company
02 Message From the Chairman
04 2007 Highlights
08 How We Operate
18 Review of Operations
22 Safety Performance28 Environmental Performance
36 Global Workforce
42 Community & Social Performance
48 Global Compact and GRI Indexes
50 Verification Statement Note: Following a review by ERMCVS, our external verifier, Hess is 
self-declaring a GRI Application level of B+ in conformance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.Report Application Levels2002
In Accordance C C + B B + A A +
Third
Party
CheckedSelf
Declared
Report Externally Assured
Report Externally Assured
Report Externally AssuredGRI
CheckedOptional Mandatory
2002
In Accordance C C + B B + A A +
Third
Party
CheckedSelf
Declared
Report Externally Assured
Report Externally Assured
Report Externally AssuredGRI
CheckedOptional MandatorySCOPE
OF REPORT
Cover: Second grade student at Hess supported school in Khon Kaen, Thailand Data available in web based reportSandy Alexander Inc., an ISO 14001:2004 certified printer with Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) Chain of Custody printed the  
Hess Annual Corporate Sustainability Report with the use of renewable wind power resulting in nearly zero volatileorganic compound (VOC) emissions. This report was printed on FSC-certified Mohawk Options paper, a process-chlorine-free 100 percent post-consumer waste (PCW) paper manufactured entirely with 100 percent certified wind energy and containing 100 percent post-consumer recycled fiber.
The savings below are achieved when PC recycled fiber is used in place of virgin fiber. 
 118.98 trees  preserved for the future
 343.57 lbs   waterborne waste not created
 50,541 gallons  wastewater flow saved
 5,592 lbs  solid waste not generated
 11,011 lbs  net greenhouse gases prevented
 84,279,200 BTUs  energy not consumed
Savings from the use of emission-free wind-generated electricity: 5,721 lbs  air emissions not generated
In other words your savings from the use of wind-generated electricity are equivalent to: Not driving  6,197 miles
 Planting  387 treesOPINION & RECOmmENdATIONS
For copies of our Environment, Health and Safety Policy and 
our Corporate Social Responsibility Policy, or for more information  regarding our operations, please visit our Web site at www.hess.com. 
We invite your questions, comments and suggestions regarding this 
report. T o send us your questions or comments, or request more information or additional copies of this report, please contact:
Vice President, 
Environment, Health and SafetyHess Corporation1185 Avenue of the AmericasNew York, NY 10036You can also send us an e-mail at ehs@hess.com.
Cert n o.  S W -COC-1576 1OUR 
COMPANY
Hess Corporation is a leading global  
independent energy company engaged  
in the exploration and production of crude 
oil and natural gas, as well as in refining 
and marketing refined petroleum products,  
natural gas and electricity. Our strategy is to build a company that will sustain profitable growth and create significant shareholder value. We are committed to meeting the highest standards of corporate 
citizenship by protecting the health and safety of our employees, safeguarding the environment and creating a long lasting, positive impact on the communities in which we do business.
ExPl ORA ti ON  & P RO d UC ti ON
Our worldwide oil and gas production 
averaged 377,000 barrels of oil equivalent (BOE) per day in 2007 and our proved 
reserves grew to 1.33 billion BOE with 
a reserve life of 9.5 years. We have built a strong organization with the technical capabilities that enable us to undertake the 
world class challenges of developing crude oil and natural gas resources around the globe. Exploration and production activities account for over 80 percent of capital  
employed and 96 percent of annual capital expenditures. These exploration and production activities take place principally 
in Algeria, Australia, Azerbaijan, Brazil, Den-mark, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Ghana, Indonesia, Libya, Malaysia, Nor -
way, Russia, Thailand, the United Kingdom and the United States. Our international 
exploration portfolio continued to grow in 2007 with the acquisition of new licenses in Australia, Columbia, Egypt, Ghana, Norway, 
Ireland, Russia, Brazil and Peru. We also acquired new seismic data in Libya, Egypt, Brazil and Norway. The Corporation  
has significant interests in several joint 
venture companies including SonaHess in Algeria, and Caragali Hess in the Malaysia/
Thailand Joint Development Area.MAR k E ti N g & R E fi N i N g
Hess is the leading independent gasoline 
convenience store marketer on the East Coast of the United States with 1,371 
Hess branded retail locations. Our Energy 
Marketing business provides oil, natural gas and electricity to more than 15,000 commercial and industrial customers, primarily on the East Coast. The company operates a network of 22 terminals stra-tegically located to support our marketing 
operations and a fluid catalytic cracking unit in Port Reading, New Jersey. The company also has a 50 percent interest in the HOVENSA Refinery in the United States Virgin Islands. The Hess LNG joint venture is pursuing investments in liquefied natural gas terminals and related supply, trading and marketing opportunities.MESSA g E f ROM 
t
HE CHA
i
RMAN
In 2007 we continued to execute successfully our strategy to 
build a company that will sustain profitable growth and create significant shareholder value while making a positive impact in  the communities where we operate. 
Our company is committed to helping meet the world’s growing  
demand for energy in a responsible manner that protects the 
safety and health of our stakeholders and respects our environment. While we continue to invest in the development of new forms of energy for the future, we also recognize the more immediate challenge of developing sufficient supplies of hydrocarbons to meet rising global demand.
We are operating in an environment of over $100 per barrel  
crude oil where access to opportunities for oil resources,  
equipment and skilled professionals is increasingly limited.  
In the last 10 years the world has moved from a supply led market to a demand led one. To conserve energy, we need to improve fuel efficiency in transportation and increase investments in breakthrough technologies to make fuel cell vehicles a reality. To grow production, it is important that our industry, OPEC  
and non-OPEC countries significantly increase their long-term investments to avoid a supply shortfall in the next 10 years. 
To contribute toward meeting these global energy needs, our 
company is investing cash flow in a disciplined manner to find, develop and produce energy resources. For 2008, capital and  exploratory expenditures are expected to be $4.4 billion, with $1.6 billion for production, $1.5 billion for field developments  
and $1.2 billion for exploration. We also continue to explore new frontiers of energy with our investment in Nuvera Fuel Cells,  a subsidiary developing alternative forms of hydrogen-powered transportation systems that are fuel efficient, safe and clean.
We have an important challenge ahead of us. We owe it to future 
generations to leave the world with greater energy security and a cleaner environment than we have today.
HESS  C ORPORA ti ON  P ER f ORMANCE
In 2007, we achieved another year of strong performance in our operations. In Exploration and Production, our year end proved  
reserves grew by 7 percent to 1.33 billion barrels of oil equivalent  
and we replaced 167 percent of production. Our reserve life  
increased to 9.5 years, marking the fifth consecutive year of  
improvement. Our production grew 5 percent to 377,000 barrels  
of oil equivalent per day, with a substantial increase in crude oil  
production at the Okume Complex in Equatorial Guinea, the  
commencement of natural gas production from the Ujung Pangkah Field in Indonesia and a full year of natural gas sales at Sinphuhorm in Thailand.
Marketing and Refining continued to meet its goals of providing 
near term earnings and free cash flow while serving the needs of our customers. Refining generated solid financial performance in a challenging environment with $193 million in earnings. Retail Marketing showed increases in both fuel sales and convenience store sales, but this improvement in volumes was more than offset by lower fuel margins. Our Energy Marketing business launched a Demand Response program to incentivize customers 
to use energy more efficiently.  
We have worked hard over the past five years to reshape our 
company, build a global organization with strong technical  
capability and deliver superior performance. Our total shareholder return for the year was up 104 percent, an increase that was first among integrated oil companies and tenth in the S&P 500.
Although we are pleased with our performance, we recognize  
the significant global challenges we face including volatile commodity  
prices, access to resources, technological challenges of exploring 
in deepwater areas, rising cost pressures, competition from national oil companies, increasing environmental and social  
concerns and attracting and retaining the best talent. 
2John B. h ess 
Chairman of the Board and  Chief Executive OfficerIntegral to our progress is a social responsibility strategy focused 
on improving safety, health and environmental performance while making a positive impact on the communities where we operate. This strategy is guided by our corporate values, policy statements and management systems, which work to protect our employees, customers, host communities and the environment.
In 2007, we achieved our best personal safety performance since 
the company began recording such data more than 20 years ago.  The incident rate was one-third the rate it was in 2000 and has improved seven of the past eight years. 
As a consequence of our growth, we experienced a significant 
increase in the absolute amount of greenhouse gas emissions over 2006. Increases were largely associated with rapid production growth in Equatorial Guinea and new production in Indonesia and Thailand. We are developing plans to manage and mitigate our total greenhouse gas emissions.
Social responsibility is a key company value and we remain  
committed to making a positive, sustainable impact in our local 
communities. Our company’s charitable contributions grew from 
$6 million in 2006 to more than $16 million in 2007 as we provided  
support for education, health and community development throughout our global operations. We are particularly proud of the program we initiated in partnership with the government of Equatorial Guinea to strengthen the country’s education system. In 2007, more than 1,000 teachers were trained and the first five of 40 model schools began refurbishment. We are especially pleased with the broad support this program has received from the local communities.
OUR COMM it MEN t
Our company engages in voluntary initiatives to support human rights, environmental protection and financial transparency.  Hess has endorsed four major voluntary initiatives: the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, the Universal Declaration on Human Rights, the United Nations Global Compact and the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative. In 2007, we drafted and began implementation of a comprehensive, company-wide “Human Rights Risk Assessment” to comply with all four of the voluntary multi-stakeholder initiatives.Our commitment to the environment includes improving our processes to reduce pollution and waste and to design and operate our facilities in a responsible and sustainable manner. We believe energy conservation plays a critical role in sustainable development and reduces the potential for global warming. We introduced an expanded energy conservation and management program that includes greater use of renewable resources. In 2007, 10 percent of all electricity purchased by the company  for our operations was provided by renewable sources.
Climate change is a global environmental concern with potentially 
significant consequences for society and the energy industry.  Hess is committed to the responsible management of greenhouse gas emissions from our existing assets and future developments and has formed a Climate Change Network, comprised of business  
leaders from across the company, to develop a sustainable Carbon Management Program. The Network is focused on developing and implementing a corporate strategy for managing and mitigating greenhouse gas emissions and proposing activities to control our carbon footprint. The Network is addressing key issues such as policy, energy efficiency, flare and vent reduction, and carbon capture and storage.
Hess supports U.S. climate change legislation that treats all  
affected parties equitably and in a cost effective manner. We are 
committed to finding a pathway that will slow, stop and reverse the increase in emissions while sustaining economic growth. Legislative action should encourage innovation, enhance energy security, foster growth, improve our balance of trade and set an example for global leadership.  
We are proud of the progress we have made in the growth of  
our company. With the continuing support of our customers,  
employees, investors, business partners and communities where 
we do business, we are confident that we are building a sustainable enterprise that makes a positive impact on the world around us.
3John B. h ess 
Chairman of the Board and  
Chief Executive Officer2007 
H
ig
H
lig
H
t
S
Major Joint Venture Locations Hess Operated Location Non-operated Locations  
4Retail and Energy Marketing Area Major Office Locations
tHE A MER i CAS
Our Exploration & Production business advanced 
several Hess operated field development projects, including the Bakken Shale in North Dakota and the Residual Oil Zone at Seminole San Andres in West Texas. We also made significant progress in the development of the Shenzi Field in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. In exploration, we continued the 
appraisal of the Pony and Tubular Bells discoveries 
in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. We hold more than 1.5 million net acres in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. We also have exploration interests in Brazil, Colombia and Peru.
Our U.S. Marketing & Refining operations are 
focused on the East Coast of the United States. We operate Hess gasoline stations, most of which have convenience stores. We supply natural gas, electricity and fuel oil to commercial and industrial customers. We operate 21 oil terminals in the U.S., plus one in St. Lucia. We also operate the Port Reading Refinery in New Jersey and have a joint venture in the HOVENSA Refinery in the U.S. Virgin Islands, which is one of the largest refineries in the world. 
•  The 2007 Chairman’s Award for Safety Excellence 
was awarded to the West Florida Region of our Retail Operations in the United States. West Florida Region achieved a 55 percent reduction  
in recordable incidents since 2005. 
• 
 
Hess supports Habitat for Humanity’s Houston 
projects, which have been improving the lives of local 
families for nearly 20 years. Hess joined the program several years ago and has made it a permanent part of its Social Responsibility Program.
• 
 
Hess purchased 10 percent (100,000 MWhrs)  
of its worldwide electricity from Green E certified 
renewable energy sources.
• 
 
In 2007, Terminal Operations Region II in the Southeastern U.S. worked more than 350,000 hours, handled close to 57 million barrels of refined product and logged 2.5 million miles in Hess trucks to deliver 151 million gallons of fuel to customers, all without a single recordable incident.North Dakota
West Texas
Houston
Gulf of Mexico
St. Lucia ColombiaU.S. Virgin Islands
BrazilNew York, N.Y .
Woodbridge, N.J.Port Reading, N.J.
Employee Safety Performance
(Total Recor dable Incident Rate)
1.01.52.02.53.03.5
Hess Employee s
Hess We st Florida Retai lHess Retail Employee s05 06 07Cases per 200,000 hours5EUROPE , AS i A & A US t RA li A
We have assets in the British, Danish and Norwegian 
sectors of the North Sea. We also have exploration interests in Ireland and the Faroes. We have a majority  
interest in the Samara region of Russia, as well as minority interests in the Azerbaijan Azeri-Chirag-Gunashli (ACG) Fields and the Baku-Tiblisi-Ceyhan (BTC) Pipeline in Azerbaijan. We have a joint venture in 
the Joint Development Area of Malaysia and Thailand 
(JDA), which is the largest gas field in the Gulf of Thai-land. We commenced natural gas production at both Sinphuhorm in Thailand and Pangkah in Indonesia. Our total exploration acreage position in Australia is approximately 1.5 million acres.
•  The South Arne production platform in Denmark 
earned the 2007 Exploration and Production President’ s Award for Safety Excellence. This  
operation sustained improvements in safety  
during a period of high activity. 
• 
 
The Triton facility in the U.K. North Sea installed  
a new separation package late in 2006 which significantly improved its produced water  
discharge performance. 
• 
 
Both Sinphuhorm and Pangkah operations were commissioned on time and within budget with 
no injuries or process safety incidents. Algeria
LibyaEgypt
Ghana
Equatorial Guinea
Gabon
U.K. North Sea
AustraliaIndonesiaAzerbaijanRussia
Thailand
Joint Development AreaNorway
DenmarkLondon
Kuala LumpurOil Discharged with 
Produced W ater
05 06 070500100015002000BBLS
Hess Hess U.K. North SeaAfRiCA
During 2007, production from Hess operations in Equatorial Guinea 
exceeded 90,000 barrels of oil per day. In Algeria, the Gassi El Agreb Fields continued work on the Gas Compression and Reinjection Project. We are a partner in the Oasis joint venture which operates the Waha concession in Libya and we have interests in three major onshore oil fields in Gabon. We also have offshore exploration projects in Ghana, Egypt and Libya.
•  In 2007, Hess contributed $8 million toward 
the development of a 10 year program, in partnership with the government of Equatorial  
Guinea to strengthen the educational system  
in the country.
• 
 
Hess has made a significant commitment  
to training and hiring National employees  
in Equatorial Guinea.
• 
 
Hess went beyond industry best practice to protect marine mammals during seismic surveys in offshore Ghana.             
• 
 
In Algeria, SonaHess achieved the best safety performance in its history in 2007. Community Spending
(Excluding Disaster Relief)
05 06 0705101520
Hess Hess Equatorial Guinea$ MillionBUSi NESS PER f ORMANCE
Our financial performance benefited from 
higher volumes of crude oil and natural gas production and strong commodity prices, 
which were partially offset by higher industry 
costs in Exploration and Production and lower margins in Marketing and Refining. Our corporate net income was $1.8 billion, or $5.74 per share. While we continued to reinvest the majority of our cash flow in Exploration and Production, we strengthened 
our financial position in 2007 with debt-to-capitalization improving to 28.9 percent at year end compared to 31.6 at the end of 2006. 
Exploration and Production, which earned 
$1.8 billion, delivered strong operational performance. Marketing and Refining, which earned $300 million, continued to make contributions to our company’s progress.
HEAlt H  & S A f E t Y
In 2007 our employee safety performance 
improved by 25 percent over 2006. Since 2000, we have reduced our injury rate by 
two-thirds and are nearing our goal of top 
quartile safety performance in all of our businesses. As the complexity and scope of our operations grow, we will continue  to make safety a top priority in all we do.
The 2007 Chairman’s Award for Safety 
Excellence was awarded to Retail Market-
ing’s West Florida Region. The region  
improved its safety performance 33 percent through focused initiatives, teamwork and strong leadership support. Since 2002 incidents in the region have decreased by 64 percent and performance is now among the best in the retail industry.CliMA t E  C HAN g E
Greenhouse gas emissions from our 
operated facilities increased by 1 million tonnes in 2007. Increased emissions are 
attributable to a doubling of production in 
Equatorial Guinea where associated gas has to be flared, as well as delays in the commissioning of the Gas Compression and Reinjection project in Algeria.
In 2007 we formed a Climate Change 
Network comprised of senior managers 
and specialists from across the company to develop a mitigation strategy for minimizing our carbon footprint. The network is focused on energy efficiency, flaring and venting and carbon capture and storage. We are also including carbon pricing in our future development strategies. For the first time, this report includes data on our net equity carbon emissions.
Hess supports U.S. climate change  
legislation that treats all affected parties 
equitably in a cost-effective manner. We  
are committed to finding a pathway that will slow, stop and reverse the growth of U.S. emissions while expanding the economy.
ENvi RONMEN t
Atmospheric emissions increased as  
a result of increased production. Our  
company wide oil spill performance was 
top quartile when benchmarked against 
industry peers. We reduced the volume  
of oil discharged in produced water and on drill cuttings. In 2007 we initiated the collection of additional environmental  
metrics including freshwater consumption,  
waste water reinjection and non-oil spills.COMMUN it Y  S UPPOR t
We remain committed to improving the  
social well being of the communities where  
we operate and continue to enhance our 
relationships with our host countries.  
The Company’s investment in social  
responsibility grew from $6 million in 2006  
to more than $16 million in 2007, with  
over 57 percent of spending dedicated  
to improving education. 
We initiated a major program in Equatorial 
Guinea to strengthen its educational system in 2006. As part of this program in 2007, we enrolled more than 1,200 in-service teachers in a seven week accelerated  
diploma program, began refurbishment of five models schools, developed a school census and provided education materials. The company also continued to provide assistance in the areas of education, health and community development in Azerbaijan, Algeria, Denmark, Indonesia, Malaysia, Russia, Thailand, the United Kingdom and the United States.
vOlUN t ARY COMM it MEN t S
The company has endorsed four major  
voluntary initiatives: The Voluntary Prin-
ciples on Security and Human Rights,  
the Universal Declaration on Human 
Rights, the United Nations Global Compact and the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative. In 2007, we began to implement a comprehensive, company-wide “Human Rights Risk Assessment” to comply  
with the multi-stakeholder initiatives we 
have endorsed.
62007 AT A GLANCEPERFORMANCE DATA
7Units 2005 2006 2007
Business Performance
Gross operated production/throughput (Normalization factor) ‘000 BOE/D 1,210 1,120 1,171
Total net hydrocarbons produced ‘000 BOE/D 335 359 377
Net gas production % 27 28 27
Natural gas production available for sale MCFD 544 612 613
Refined petroleum product sales ‘000 BOE/D 456 459 451
Sales and other operating revenue $ Million 22,747 28,067 31,647
Net income $ Million 1,226 1,920 1,832
Capital and exploratory expenditures $ Million 2,490 4,056 3,926
Stockholders equity $ Million 6,318 8,147 9,774
Convenience store sales (excluding petroleum products) $ Million 973 1,015 1,051
Income tax to governments $ Million 1,139 1,799 1,826
Royalties and other payments to governments $ Million NR 580 885
Benefits to employees – wages, share-plans, pensions $ Million 564 596 636
Amount of money paid to political parties $ Million 0 0 0
Spending with suppliers (U.S. only) $ Million 1,715 1,929 2,276
Spending with minority suppliers (U.S. only) % of Vendors 42 41 31
% Spend 29 37 33
Community contributions $ Million 8 6 16
safety Performance
Fatalities - Employees # 0 0 0
Fatalities - Contractors # 0 0 0
Recordable Incident Rate - Employees per 200,000 hrs worked 1.99 1.73 1.29
Recordable Incident Rate - Contractors per 200,000 hrs worked 1.01 0.50 0.53
Recordable Incident Rate - Workforce per 200,000 hrs worked 1.57 1.04 0.91
Lost Work Time Incident Rate - Employees per 200,000 hrs worked NR 0.79 0.43
Lost Work Time Incident Rate - Contractors per 200,000 hrs worked NR 0.10 0.13
Lost Work Time Incident Rate - Workforce per 200,000 hrs worked NR 0.41 0.28
Employee Hours Worked Million hrs 21.49 22.56 23.59
Contractors Hours Worked Million hrs 16.17 28.59 23.30
environmental Performance
Number of Oil Spills # 270 115 129
Volume of Oil Spilled bbls 531 31,455 458
Number of Other Spills # NR NR 36
Volume of Other Spills bbls NR NR 1,959
Operated Direct CO2 Million Tonnes 4.84 4.66 5.65
Operated Indirect CO2 Million Tonnes 0.531 0.506 0.541
Operated Direct Methane Thousand Tonnes 8.04 7.06 7.39
Operated Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions Million Tonnes 5.05 4.85 5.85
Operated Carbon intensity Tonnes GHG/1000 boe 12.68 13.14 14.99
Net Equity Greenhouse Gas Emissions Million Tonnes NR NR 9.61
Non Hazardous Waste (Restated) Thousand Tons 173.90 193.42 108.30
Hazardous Waste (Restated) Thousand Tons 1.00 0.58 1.19
Recycled Waste % 38 45 72
EHS Fines and Penalties $ Thousands 279 188 79
Environmental Expenditures (inc. low sulfur projects) $ Million 26 71 22
Remediation Expenditure $ Million 15 15 23
Environmental Reserve $ Million 77 75 60
Direct Energy Use Peta Joules 37.45 39.54 40.15
Indirect energy consumption Peta Joules 9.00 8.91 9.48
Production energy intensity Giga Joules/tonne 0.77 0.87 0.85
Environmental Management Systems % Production ISO 14001 Certified 16 12 10
Freshwater Consumption Million bbls NR NR 66.88
Glo B al Workforce
Number of full time equivalent permanent employees # 11,975 12,921 12,071
Proportion of hourly paid employees % 68 68 67
Non U.S. Workforce % 5.2 6.1 8.5
Females in management (U.S. only) % 36 36 38
Female employees (U.S. only) % 45 44 41
People from U.S. racial minorities % 25 27 29
Technical and personal developement training $ Million NR 9 11
www.hess.com NR - Not Reported More extensive data onHOW WE
OPERA
t
E
Retail station in West Florida. West Florida Region earned the 2007 Chairman’s Award for Safety ExcellenceHOW WE OPERATE
ENvi RONMEN t, HEA lt H , SA f E t Y  
AN
d 
SOC
i
A
l 
RESPONS
i
B
ilit
Y
 
MANA
g
EMEN
t
Hess Corporation has implemented a values 
based, Environment, Health, Safety and Social Responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy. 
This strategy is guided by the company’s 
policies, management systems and pro-grams that work to protect our employees, customers and host communities.
We are committed to continually improving 
our EHS & SR performance. Since perfor -
mance must be measured to be meaningful  
we have well-developed performance 
objectives. Some of these are “end of  
process” targets focusing on the results of our actions. Others are “in process” objectives that focus on how well we are performing the actions themselves.
EHS & SR Management System
EHS & SR is managed as a critical function 
that is integrated into each business area, which has primary accountability for  
performance and results, with guidance from the Hess Leadership Team.
Our EHS & SR management system  
ensures that there is a systemic, reliable process for identifying risks and achieving EHS & SR objectives. Our management system is based on recognized international standards that promote consistency,  
adherence to policies, and continued  
improvement in performance. In 2007,  
10 percent of our total oil production (gross operated) and throughput was  
from ISO 14001 certified operations.  
 
Our ISO 14001 locations are: the St. Lucia 
Terminal, U.K. Production and Denmark Production. In addition, our Denmark  
operations are OHSAS 18001 certified. 
Our CarigaliHess joint venture is also  
OHSAS 18001 certified and is preparing for ISO 14001 certification in 2008.
Audit
The role of our corporate audit program is 
to ensure that our operations consistently 
adhere to company policy and objectives, comply with regulatory requirements and, as appropriate, implement best in class industry standards.
Communication & Collaboration
The company maintains an intranet Web 
site for employees that provides updates 
on regulatory information and issue-oriented 
training programs. Injury and illness perfor -
mance and targets are also included.
We have established internal networks to 
help guide the company on issues such  as safety, corporate social responsibility  
and climate change. Since much can  be learned from industry peers, other companies and external groups, we also participate in various organizations such  
as the International Petroleum Industry  
Environmental Conservation Association, the International Association of Oil and  
Gas Producers, the National Petrochemicals and Refiners Association and the National Safety Council.
INTEGRIT Y
PEOPLE PERFORMANCE
VALUE
CREA TIONSOCIAL
RESPONSIBILITY
INDEPENDENT
SPIRI T
OUR vA l UES 
Our values provide guidance throughout the company on how we conduct our 
business. All representatives of the  
company are required to operate in  accordance with our values.
• 
 
i
ntegrity: We are committed to  
the highest level of integrity in all  
of our relationships.
• 
 
People: We are committed to attracting, retaining and energizing the very best people by investing in their professional development and providing them with challenging and rewarding opportunities for personal growth.
• 
 
Performance: We are committed to a culture of performance that both demands and rewards outstanding 
results throughout our business.
• 
 
v
alue 
c
reation: We are committed  
to creating shareholder value based  on sustained financial performance and long term profitable growth.
• 
 
s
ocial 
r
esponsibility: We are  
committed to meeting the highest standards of corporate citizenship by protecting the health and safety  of our employees, by safeguarding  the environment, and by creating a long lasting, positive impact on the communities where we do business.
• 
 i
ndependent 
s
pirit: We are committed 
to preserving the special qualities and 
unique personality that have made us  
a successful independent enterprise.
9StAk EHO ld ER  E N g A g EMEN t
We continue to engage in discussions with 
both internal and external stakeholders to maintain and improve key relationships 
and reinforce transparency in our industry.
We pursue many initiatives to keep share-
holders and the investment community informed and to attract new investment. Each quarter, we host a conference call providing further clarity on our earnings press release. The calls are accessible to 
the public. Transcripts are made available on our Web site within 24 hours. All investor presentations are posted on hess.com. 
   In addition we participate in various surveys 
and rankings undertaken by financial insti-tutions and socially responsible investment groups, including: the Carbon Disclosure Project; Goldman Sachs Environmental, 
Social, Governance Index; KLD (SiRi survey); Ethical Investment Research Service (EIRIS); and Oekom.
This report and the associated Web site 
form a major component of our stakeholder  
engagement efforts. Since 2007, we have 
adopted the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines  
as our framework for this report in order to 
10HOW WE OPERATE
Solicitations 47%
Information Request 17%
Job Applications 17%
Retail Issues 10%
Sustainability Report
Notification 9%Hess.com EHS & SR Inquiries
(481 Emails)
www.hess.comgOv ERNMEN t S
» 18 countries
» 14 U.S. states» Oil and Gas ministries
» Environmental and safety agencies
» Regional and local governments
types of Engagement
•  Negotiation and dialogue with  
host countries
• 
 
Participation in the Extractive Industries 
Transparency Initiative (EITI)
• 
 
Communicating with governments/ 
regulators on legislative impacts
• 
 
Local community/environmental reports
• 
 
Corporate Sustainability Report
• hess.comCOMMUN iti ES
»  Partner with NGO’s and Government  
agencies (e.g. AED, USAID)
types of Engagement
•  Community consultation and feedback 
mechanisms in our management systems
• 
 
Dialogue with NGOs and  
other organizations
• 
 
Social and Environmental  
Impact Assessments
• 
 
Community engagement in emergency 
response planning and drills
• 
 
Partnerships in local associations
• Local publications, Web sites
• 
 
Speaking at universities, and community 
and business organizations
• E-mail address: ehs@hess.com
• Corporate Sustainability Report• hess.comSHAREHO ld ERS
» 5,673 shareholders
» 
 
Over 80 percent held by 
institutional investors
types of Engagement
•  Meetings with analysts and  major shareholders
• 
 
Shareholder dialogues
• Quarterly earnings communications
• Proxy statements• 
 
Securities and Exchange  
Commission filings
• Annual Report
• Annual shareholders’ meeting• Annual analyst meeting• E-mail address: ehs@hess.com
• Corporate Sustainability Report• hess.commaximize the relevance for stakeholders.  
In our Corporate Sustainability Report and on our public Web site, we provide an e-mail 
address (ehs@hess.com) for feedback as 
well as EHS & SR inquiries and comments.  
In 2007 we received 481 e-mails. 
Through industry associations, we engage  
with various stakeholder groups and 
non-governmental organizations. In order to better address stakeholder concerns, 
our businesses implement locally based Social Responsibility programs to identify issues as early as possible in the business process so that they can be addressed and resourced appropriately. Our EHS & SR 
policies require that we regularly communicate with the communities where we operate 
to develop and maintain a mutual under -
standing of goals and expectations.
We initiate Environmental and Social Impact 
Assessments (ESIA) in the early stages of projects to evaluate how our business plans may affect a location. Integral to these assessments is dialogue with local, 
regional and national stakeholders. We work with these representatives on an ongoing basis in order to produce an ESIA which provides a baseline from which to start project development and an assessment 
of the impacts a project may have. This program typically begins during the initial 
project scoping stages to determine the 
best options for project planning. In 2007 ESIAs were underway for exploration and development projects in Australia, Brazil, Denmark, Ghana, Indonesia, Libya and  the United Kingdom.
In addition to the ESIA consultations, we 
also conduct informal engagements to keep local communities fully apprised of our plans as they evolve. Consultation initiated during the formal ESIA process has been maintained  
11HOW WE OPERATE
CUSt OMERS
»  Serve more than 1 million customers  
per day at Hess Retail sites
» 
 
Provide natural gas, fuel oil and  
electricity to more than 15,500  
commercial and industrial customers 
in 14 states
types of Engagement
• Customer feedback programs
• Customer service organizations• Consumer care programs
• Customer surveys
• 
  
Business-to-business  
communications
• 
 
Product quality information  
(inc. MSDS)
• E-mail address: ehs@hess.com
• Corporate Sustainability Report• hess.comSUPP li ERS
»  3,000 U.S. minority and  
women suppliers
types of Engagement
•  Supplier diversity program
• 
 
Mentoring of suppliers in negotiation and business plan development
• 
 
Ongoing day-to-day contact  and negotiation
• Corporate Sustainability Report
• hess.comEMPl OYEES
» 12,071 employees
» 91 percent U.S. based» 67 percent retail workers
types of Engagement
• Town Hall meetings• Employee forums• Labor management committees
• Confidential hotline/e-mail
• Union representation• Joint health and safety committees• Intranet sites• Local publications• Corporate Sustainability Reportvoluntary Commitments
Hess Corporation has endorsed four international voluntary initiatives designed to protect the environment, promote universal human  
rights and encourage financial transparency. Hess is one of only six oil and gas companies worldwide, and the only U.S. energy company, 
to endorse these four initiatives:
United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights:
 Comprising 30 articles covering fundamental 
freedoms ranging from the right to nationality to the right to equality before the law, the Universal  
Declaration of Human Rights was established in 1948 by the United Nations (UN) General Assembly.  
It serves as the international standard and codification of human rights norms and has been endorsed  
by 148 countries.
United Nations Global Compact:
 We are proud to be the first U.S. signatory in the oil and gas industry 
to the UN Global Compact, which provides businesses a learning platform to embrace, support and 
promote a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. 
Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights:
 We endorse the U.S. State Department’s Voluntary 
Principles on Security and Human Rights, a voluntary guide for companies to assure the safety and security of their operations while respecting human rights and fundamental freedoms. It covers issues such as the potential for violence, conflict analysis, equipment transfers, security arrangements, responses to human rights abuses, and interactions between companies and private security forces.
 
Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative:
 This initiative is discussed in the Transparency  
section of this report.through the construction phases of our 
projects at Sinphuhorm in Thailand and Ujung Pangkah in Indonesia. This process 
allows feedback into the relevant management  
programs and facilitates early mitigation  
of issues.
The company has programs and initiatives 
to raise project awareness that allow for feedback including: establishing information offices in the field, distributing information 
brochures, conducting meetings with  
potentially affected communities, conducting study tours with focus groups, distributing posters, broadcasting taped messages, ad hoc meetings and feedback forms. This information exchange provides us with valuable local knowledge and helps in the identification of a community’s concerns.CORPORA t E  g O v ERNANCE
We are committed to conduct our busi-
ness with the highest ethical standards. We support the goals of the Securities 
and Exchange Commission (SEC) and New 
York Stock Exchange (NYSE) corporate governance initiatives to achieve greater transparency for investors.
Board of Directors
Our Board currently consists of 13 directors, 
nine of whom are independent. There are 
currently eight regular meetings per year. The Board has three principal committees: the Audit Committee, the Compensation and Management Development Committee  
and the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee. Members of these committees are independent under NYSE and SEC rules. Each committee has a 
written charter that sets forth its purpose and responsibilities. 
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee’s purpose is to fulfill the Board’s oversight responsibility relating 
to the company’s financial statements, 
financial reporting practices, systems of internal accounting and financial and disclosure controls, internal audit function, the retention and oversight of independent auditors and oversight of the company’s environment, health, safety and social  
responsibility programs. The Audit Committee  
currently consists of five members and usually meets six times per year. The  
Audit Committee routinely reviews our EHS & SR performance.
12 HOW WE OPERATE
Hess Leadership Team
The Hess Leadership Team, consisting  
of the top executive officers of Hess Corpo -
ration, provides strategic business direc-
tion and key operational decisions for the company. Several objectives established by the Leadership Team are focused on pro-motion of EHS & SR policies and manage-ment systems that protect the company’s workforce, customers and local communities. 
Executive compensation is linked to selective EHS & SR performance metrics.
The Hess Leadership Team is engaged 
in establishing performance expectations and holding business units accountable for their performance. Our business units and line management are ultimately responsible for incorporating EHS & SR expectations into their business activities and providing adequate resources and mechanisms to meet performance objectives.
EHS & SR Organization
The company has corporate and business 
unit EHS & SR staff who provide technical support and functional guidance to our 
business units. The organization of our EHS & SR function is presented in our 
Web-based report. 
EHS & SR Reporting
This report represents one of several key products from our EHS & SR reporting 
systems. Reporting includes centralized 
incident tracking systems that provide real time access to information on safety and environmental incidents and social spending. We use these systems to provide information  
and monthly reports to our management. We have initiated a greenhouse gas protocol 
and monitoring system to enable quarterly  
internal reporting of these emissions together with our overall energy efficiency. Our corporate system is used for collecting the metrics included in this report. Wherever possible, measurements and reporting are conducted in accordance with relevant international standards or with reference to applicable legislation and regulations. We have put procedures in place to standardize reporting methodologies wherever possible  
to provide consistent EHS & SR data throughout our organization. As previously mentioned we have adopted the GRI G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines as our framework for this report. We also use the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA) and the American Petroleum Institute (API) Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Sustainability Reporting 
for further guidance when necessary. 
In 2007 we employed CorporateRegister.com  
to notify stakeholders regarding the release 
of our 2006 Corporate Sustainability Report. This service allows readers to provide feedback on the content of the report. 
The response to the report was favorable with the majority of respondents indicating that the report met or exceeded expectations.
In addition, we engaged csrnetwork
TM  
and AccountAbility to benchmark our 2006 
performance against their Fortune Global 
100 (G-100) Accountability RatingTM. 
Hess scored 53 percent, which compares 
favorably to the G-100 average of 40 percent. 
Hess’ ranking would place it in 22nd place 
among the G-100. 
EtHiCA l BUS i NESS  CON d UC t
The company has adopted a Code of 
Business Conduct and Ethics that provides company representatives with guidance 
and expectations regarding business 
ethics, citizenship, contracting and labor practices, regulatory compliance, safety and stewardship of the environment. It is applicable to all of the company’s directors, officers and employees. 
13HOW WE OPERATE 
Terminal operations in St. LuciaThe company monitors compliance with  
the law and its own policies and has  
established both telephone and internet 
e-mail hotline services to facilitate reporting  
of potential noncompliance. All reports  
of suspected violations, whether made  
anonymously or otherwise, are treated 
confidentially and are investigated promptly, thoroughly and fairly. In 2007, there were 103 calls received on the hotline, 25 of which 
were substantiated and resulted in follow up action including six employee dismissals. Reports are made periodically to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
We conduct regular mandatory training  
and evaluate salaried employees on ethical  
guidelines using a computer based Ethics 
Awareness Training course. No action is taken against an employee for making a complaint or reporting, in good faith, known or suspected violations of company policy. Intimidation or retaliation against anyone making such reports is not tolerated and any employee, officer or director who retaliates against another employee, officer or director will be in violation of company policy and subject to disciplinary action.
Political Contributions
It is the company’s policy not to make 
political contributions to any political candidate or political party or to permit 
the use of Hess facilities or property for campaign activities. Contributions include 
not only financial support but also the use 
of corporate resources and the use of corporate personnel in ways that assist the campaigns of candidates. It is also company policy not to permit management personnel to coerce political contributions from other employees. The corporation 
may not directly or indirectly reimburse  
an employee for a political contribution  
or channel a contribution through an employee in order to disguise its true origin. Employees, acting in their individual capacities, are encouraged to exercise their rights as citizens.tRANSPARENCY
Good governance is a precondition  
for converting revenues from extractive  
industries into economic growth and  
poverty reduction. When transparency  
and accountability are weak, the extractive  
industries may contribute to poverty, 
corruption and conflict. Our policies and commitment to the United Nations Global Compact pledges us to work against all forms of corruption, including extortion 
and bribery.
In addition, the company has endorsed  
the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative 
(EITI). The EITI supports improved governance  
in resource rich countries through the verification and publication of company payments and government revenues from oil, gas, and mining. The Initiative works to build multistakeholder partnerships in developing countries in order to increase the accountability of governments. Companies participating in EITI pledge to support the initiative in countries that have adopted it and 
14HOW WE OPERATE
www.hess.comGeoscience training conference in TexasWe must create value and consistently achieve outstanding 
results in our business and also excel in other critical areas including personal and business ethics.to advocate for EITI participation in countries 
that have not.
During 2007 Hess Corporation was an  
active participant in the EITI process. At the international level, Hess was an early endorser of the EITI Principles and Criteria. Senior Hess executives have participated in International EITI summits in London and Oslo and Hess has embedded strategic 
responsibility for EITI implementation in  
senior management. Hess was recognized as one of the first U.S. companies to provide the EITI Secretariat with documentation of the company’s support for EITI at the international level.
We have been a major international advocate 
of EITI. In November 2007, Hess sponsored a workshop on transparency in Capetown, South Africa. Presenters included the World Bank Vice President for Africa, and the EITI Executive Secretary. 
Hess led a long-term effort that resulted 
in Equatorial Guinea achieving status as an EITI candidate country. Through its chairmanship of the Corporate Council on Africa Working group, Hess led efforts to inform the government on the benefits  of EITI and undertook an on the ground mission while working closely with the country’s U.S. Embassy in Washington. Hess also worked with others on encouraging the U.S. government to support an EITI program in Equatorial Guinea. Hess will be a strong supporter of EITI implementation in Equatorial Guinea through direct partici-pation in the multi-stakeholder group.In Azerbaijan and Gabon, where EITI is 
well established, Hess provides requested data on its payments to the government 
in support of the EITI process.
ExCEE d ANCES AN d   
EN
f
ORCEMEN
t
 AC
ti
ONS
Corporate policy reinforces our fundamental  
commitment to comply with applicable 
environment, health and safety laws and 
regulations. Although 100 percent compliance  
is our objective, exceedances of permitted  
levels can occur, as do citations from 
regulatory authorities. A total of $79,000 was paid in penalties in 2007, which was $109,000 less than 2006 and $200,000 less than 2005.
lEgA l  PROCEE di N g S
Hess Corporation is one of many oil and 
gas companies that have been party to multiple lawsuits and claims related to the 
use of methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE) 
in gasoline. The principal allegation is that gasoline containing MTBE is a defective product and that the parties are liable for damage to groundwater resources. As a result of court ordered mediation, 
Hess anticipates that settlement will be reached in a majority of the pending cases, the number and terms of which are under negotiation and subject to a confidentiality  
agreement. In the fourth quarter 2007, Hess recorded a pre-tax charge of $40 million related to MTBE litigation.
Since 2000, most of the U.S. refinery busi-
ness, representing over 80 percent of U.S. refining capacity, has entered into consent agreements with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regarding asser -
tions that refining facilities were modified  or expanded without complying with air 
emission regulations that require permits and new emission controls in certain circumstances. These consent agreements  
have typically imposed substantial civil fines and penalties, required significant capital expenditures to install emissions  
control equipment, and resulted in changes 
to operations that increased operating costs. These settlements have allowed controls to be phased in over several years. We are currently engaged in discussions with the EPA regarding the Petroleum  Refining Initiative, although we have  already installed many of the pollution  
controls required of other refiners under the consent agreements. While the effect on the company cannot be estimated at this time, Hess and HOVENSA are likely to experience increased capital expenditures and operating expenses related to air emission controls.
Hess Corporation is among 60 companies 
that have received a directive from the 
15HOW WE OPERATE 
Envir onmental, Health & Safety 
Fines & Penalties
05 06 07050100150200250300$ Thousand
279
188
79New Jersey Department of Environmental 
Protection to remediate contamination in the sediments of the lower Passaic River. 
The Hess directive relates to alleged  
prior releases from a bulk storage terminal in New Jersey, now owned by Hess.  
A remedial investigation and feasibility study is being conducted on a portion of the Passaic River by the EPA under an agreement with Hess and more than 40 
other companies. Based on currently known facts, we do not believe this matter will result in material liability to Hess.
In early 2008, the company agreed to a 
settlement of $1.1 million with the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation relating to alleged violations regarding the structural integrity of tanks and bulkheads which occurred in 2001 at its petroleum terminal in Brooklyn, New York, and at 65 gasoline stations across the state. Hess also contributed $300,000 
to the Nature Conservancy to help pay for the restoration of wetlands along the 
Hudson River.
In July 2005, the Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC) commenced a private investigation into payments made to the government of Equatorial Guinea or to officials and persons affiliated with officials of the government of Equatorial Guinea. 
Hess has been cooperating and continues to cooperate with the SEC investigation.
HOVENSA Joint Venture
Hess is a 50 percent owner of a major refinery in St. Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands (HOVENSA). In September 2007, HOVENSA received a Notice Of Violation (NOV)  
pursuant to the Clean Air Act from the EPA finding that HOVENSA failed to obtain proper permitting for the construction and operation of its delayed coking unit. 
HOVENSA believes it properly obtained all necessary permits for this project. 
The NOV states that EPA has authority 
to issue an administrative order assessing penalties for violation of the Act. However, HOVENSA intends to enter into discussions with the EPA to reach resolution of this  
matter. Hess does not believe that this matter will result in material liability to 
HOVENSA or Hess.
In December 2006, HOVENSA received 
an NOV from the EPA alleging non-com-pliance with emissions limits in a permit issued by the Virgin Islands Department  of Planning and Natural Resources for  
two process heaters in the delayed coking unit. Any exceedances were minor from the perspective of the amount of pollutants emitted in excess of the limits. HOVENSA intends to work with the appropriate  
governmental agency to reach resolution  
of this matter and does not believe that  it will result in material liability.
An action was filed in 2005 in the District 
Court of the Virgin Islands against HOVENSA, Hess Oil Virgin Islands Corporation (HOVIC) and other companies that operated industrial facilities on the south shore of St. Croix  
asserting that the defendants are liable  
under the Environmental Response,  
Compensation and Liability Act and  
territorial statutory and common law for damages to natural resources. HOVIC  
16HOW WE OPERATE
www.hess.comWind powered remediation system in St. Croix, U.S.V.I.and HOVENSA do not believe that this 
matter will result in a material liability as they believe that they have strong defenses 
to this complaint and they intend to  
vigorously defend this matter.
ENvi RONMEN t A l  E x PEN dit URES
Capital expenditures incurred over several 
years to comply with low sulfur gasoline and diesel fuel requirements totaled  
approximately $400 million at HOVENSA 
and approximately $70 million at Port Reading. Additional capital expenditures for facilities to comply with environmental standards, other than for the low sulfur projects, were $22 million in 2007.
Our commitment to environmental stewardship 
extends beyond our operations to include decommissioning and remediation activities. Sites where remediation may be necessary  
include gasoline stations, terminals, onshore exploration and production facilities and refineries. The company accrues for  
environmental assessment and remediation  
expenses when the future costs are probable and reasonably estimable. At 
year end 2007, the company reserve for its estimated environmental liability was approximately $60 million. The company routinely audits its reserves and expects 
that existing reserves for environmental liabilities will adequately cover costs to assess and remediate known sites. The company’s remediation spending was  
$23 million in 2007.
17HOW WE OPERATE 
Groundwater monitoring wells at Chesapeake Terminal, Virginia
We are committed to complying with applicable environment, health and safety  
laws and regulations wherever we operate. We conduct our business with the  
highest ethcial standards.REviEW  O f 
O
PERA
ti
ONS
South Arne Platform, North Sea. Recipient of the 2007 President’s Award for Safety ExcellenceREVIEW  OF  O PERATIONS
2007 was another year of strong achievement  
for our company. We successfully executed 
our strategy of growing our reserves and 
production on a sustainable basis in  
Exploration and Production and managing 
for near term earnings and free cash flow in Marketing and Refining. Our financial performance benefited from higher volumes of crude oil and natural gas production and strong commodity prices, which were 
partially offset by higher industry costs in Exploration and Production and lower margins in Marketing and Refining. 
We have worked hard over the past five 
years to reshape our company, build a global organization with strong technical  
capability and deliver performance. Our total shareholder return for the year was up 104 percent, an increase that was first among integrated oil companies and tenth in the S&P 500.
Our corporate net income was $1.8 billion, 
or $5.74 per share. Cash flow from operations  
was $3.5 billion. While we continued to reinvest the majority of our cash flow in  Exploration and Production, we strengthened our financial position in 2007 with debt-to-capitalization improving to 28.9 percent at year end compared to 31.6 percent at the end of 2006.
Going forward, we will continue to invest  
our cash flow in a disciplined manner to sustain long-term profitable growth. For 2008, capital and exploratory expenditures are expected to be $4.4 billion, with $1.6 
billion for production, $1.5 billion for field developments and $1.2 billion for exploration. We believe this investment program will  
create significant value for our shareholders.
ExPl ORA ti ON  & P RO d UC ti ON
Exploration and Production earned  
$1.8 billion in 2007 and delivered  
strong operational performance:
• 
 
Our year end proved reserves grew  
by 7 percent to 1.33 billion barrels of  
oil equivalent.
• 
 
We replaced 167 percent of production 
at a finding, development and acquisition cost of about $16.20 per barrel.
• 
 
Our reserve life increased to 9.5 years, 
marking the fifth consecutive year  
of improvement.
 
• 
 
Our worldwide crude oil and natural  
gas production grew by 5 percent versus the prior year to an average of 377,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
19Exploration and Production 3D seismic evaluation 
in Houston, TexasIn 2007, production growth was primarily 
attributable to: 
  
 
Equatorial Guinea;
 in 2007, the Hess 
operated Okume Complex, where our 
working interest is 85 percent, achieved  
a substantial increase in crude oil pro-
duction, reaching its design capacity of 60,000 barrels of oil per day.
  
 
Indonesia;
 the company-operated Ujung 
Pangkah Field commenced natural gas 
production in April 2007 and ramped up to 100 million cubic feet per day gross  
in the fourth quarter. Production of con-densate from Ujung Pangkah was also achieved in 2007.
  
 
Malaysia/Thailand;
 appraisal drilling in 
the Joint Development Area was a major activity for Hess in 2007. We achieved the set milestones for the Phase 2 develop-ment of Block A-18 in the Gulf of Thailand.  
  United States;  the Company is making a 
major investment to build our strategic  
position in the Bakken Shale play in 
North Dakota. In 2007 we drilled 32 wells 
and increased our land holdings from 220,000 acres to 356,000 acres. At year end, six rigs were drilling on our Bakken properties and net production averaged near 5,000 barrels of oil per day. 
  
 
United Kingdom North Sea;
 natural 
gas production from the Atlantic and 
Cromarty fields added to our production growth. As part of our continued portfolio optimization, in 2007 we concluded the sale of our interests in the Scott and Telford fields in the North Sea.
  
 
Thailand;
 achieved the first full year of 
natural gas sales at Sinphuhorm. 
  
 
Russia
 and 
Azerbaijan;
 both achieved 
increased production.
We also advanced several Hess operated field development projects, including the Residual Oil Zone at the Seminole San  Andres unit in West Texas. In the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, we achieved first production  
from the Genghis Khan oil and gas develop -
ment using a third party owned production facility. We made significant progress in the development of the Shenzi Field, achieving planned milestones.
In Indonesia, the second phase of devel-
opment of the company-operated Ujung Pangkah Field continued on schedule.  
Engineering and construction for the offshore facilities also continued.In addition, we sanctioned two new field 
developments: the Hess operated Jambi Merang natural gas project in Indonesia and 
the Valhall Field Redevelopment in Norway.
2007 was a significant year in exploration 
for new acreage and appraisal activity as the Company continued to build for the  
future and grow its portfolio. Hess captured two highly prospective blocks on the  
Australian Northwest Shelf, bringing our 
total gross acreage position in Australia to approximately 1.5 million acres. In  
Colombia, Hess won two offshore blocks,  
totaling nearly 1.3 million gross acres. Hess also won three deepwater blocks in the Gulf of Mexico increasing its total deepwater blocks held to 371 at the end of the year. Appraisal drilling in the Gulf  
of Mexico and the Malaysia/Thailand JDA areas were core activities for Hess  
in 2007. We also continued the appraisal of the Pony and Tubular Bells discoveries in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. 
MAR k E ti N g  & RE fi N i N g
Marketing and Refining, which earned  
$300 million, continued to contribute to  our company’s progress:
• 
 
Our refineries operated reliably last year 
generating solid financial performance in a challenging environment with $193 million in earnings.
• 
 
Hess Energy Marketing doubled electricity  
sales compared to the previous year 
through strong organic growth and acqui-sitions and increased natural gas sales. 
20REVIEW  OF  O PERATIONS
www.hess.com
Joint Development Area Platform in Malaysia/Thailand21R
EVIEW
 
OF
 O
PERATIONS
Hess convenience store in South Florida
2007 Contribution to Economic Developments
($ Million)
Capital and exploration expenditur es $ 3,926
Payments to suppliers $ 2,276
Income T ax $ 1,826
Wages and Benefits $ 636
Royalties and Other Payments $ 885
Dividends $ 127•  The company opened 10 new H ESS  
Ex
PRESS
 locations and added conve-
nience stores to 11 existing locations. 
Our WilcoHess joint venture added 27 new sites in North and South Carolina. Retail Marketing showed increases in both fuel sales and convenience store sales. However, the improvement in volumes was more than offset by lower fuel margins.
Hess is also is a joint venture partner with a 92.5 percent interest in Hess LNG, which is pursuing the develop-ment of liquefied natural gas terminal projects located in Fall River, Massa-chusetts and Shannon, Ireland. Hess also has a 50 percent voting interest in a consolidated partnership that trades energy commodities and derivatives. We are also a significant investor in  
Nuvera Fuel Cells, Inc., which is engaged in the development of fuel cells for auto-motive use and electric generation.CON t R i BU ti ON t O ECONOM i C 
d
E
v
E
l
OPMEN
t
Hess Corporation is committed to social 
responsibility and contributes to the economies of the countries in which we 
operate by supplying energy to support 
economic development and by investing capital, employing personnel and paying 
taxes and royalties.
SHAREHO ld ERS
During the year shareholder value in-
creased by more than $16 billion. As of December 31, 2007 there were 5,673 
shareholders who owned a total of 
320,599,585 shares of common stock, on which dividends of $127 million were paid. 
More than 80 percent of the common stock was held by institutional investors.
tAxES & ROYA lti ES
In 2007, we paid a total of $1.8 billion in 
income taxes along with additional pay-ments of $885 million to governments in 
the form of royalties, severance, re-entry 
payments and leasehold arrangements.SUPP l Y CHA i N
The petroleum industry depends on its sup-
plier network for most materials and services. In 2007 our total U.S. spending with third party 
suppliers was approximately $2.3 billion. 
Our industry requires safe, high-performance 
equipment. We work with our direct suppliers to improve processes and ensure adherence  
to Hess environment, health and safety standards. We contractually require our suppliers to comply with all environmental, 
health, safety and labor laws for themselves and their subcontractors. Adherence to drug and alcohol policies is also included in our contracts with suppliers.
CAPit A l  & E x P l ORA ti ON  
E
x
PEN
dit
URES
We continue to re-invest our internally 
generated cash to grow our reserves in a sustainable and financially disciplined 
way. Capital and exploratory expenditures 
were $3.9 billion in 2007, with 96 percent of these expenditures being made in Exploration and Production. SAfE t Y 
P
ER
f
ORMANCE
Okume Complex in Equatorial GuineaSAFETY  P ERFORMANCE
Safety is critical to our company and is 
a key element of operational excellence. We strive to create a working environ-
ment in which incidents are avoided and 
employees, contractors and the public are not exposed to health and safety hazards. We have systems in place to ensure that our personnel and processes are safe and appropriately managed in order to prevent incidents. Avoiding incidents and process 
upsets protects people, the environment and the communities in which we work. Effective process safety management and improved personal safety results also deliver economic benefits. 
By reducing injuries our workforce is more 
productive. By ensuring sound process safety management we minimize busi-ness interruptions and environmental risks, resulting in lower insurance and workers’ compensation premiums and improved as-set integrity and operational reliability. A safe working environment also helps us attract high quality employees and contractors.
Where we exercise operational control we 
have implemented systems, standards, practices, and plans to communicate our safety expectations and guide our activi-ties. We continually improve our safety pro-cesses and procedures, conduct regular inspections of our facilities, and have well developed incident reporting and emergen-cy response systems. We perform process safety risk assessments of our operations to evaluate whether our processes and 
practices should be enhanced. Where we do not have operational control 
we seek to influence and promote good safety practices through contractual 
requirements, active participation in joint 
venture management committees and industry stakeholder initiatives. 
EMPl OYEE SA f E t Y  
PER
f
ORMANCE
In 2007, Hess achieved its best employee 
safety performance since the company began record keeping more than 20 years 
ago. Results were 25 percent better than in 
2006 and 20 percent better than the year’s target. The 2007 incident rate was one-third what it was in 2000 and has now declined seven of the last eight years. There has not been an employee work-related fatality for three consecutive years. 
Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) is one 
metric we use to track safety performance. The employee TRIR for the corporation was 1.29 in 2007, better than the 1.73 achieved in 2006 and our 2007 target of 1.60. 
 
230.00.51.01.52.02.53.0
02 03 04 05 06 07  2.81
2.06
2.13
1.45
2.17
1.57
1.99
1.50
1.73
1.17
0.761.29Employee Safety PerformanceCases per 200,000 hours
Employee TRIR Employee LT /RD
TRIR Ta rget (Employee) 1.60We also reduced our employee lost work 
time and restricted duty (LT/RD) incident rate by 35 percent between 2006 and 2007. We 
had an employee LT/RD incident rate of 0.76 
in 2007 compared to 1.17 in 2006.
Other safety metrics, including those for 
process safety, fires and explosions, and motor vehicle incidents are being collected for inclusion into our monthly progress reports. Our Retail operations, where almost 70 
percent of our employee hours occur, have a significant impact on our consolidated 
safety performance. Diligent attention to 
retail safety performance management led to a 25 percent reduction in employee TRIR from 2006 to 2007. 
Each year the company’s annual Chairman’s 
Award for Safety Excellence recognizes one operation or group that has demon-
strated outstanding commitment to safety through systematic processes, exceptional safety performance and sustainable safety 
improvement. The 2007 Chairman’s Award for Safety Excellence was awarded to the West Florida Region of our Retail operations in the United States.
The West Florida Region, with 1,700  
employees and more than 150 high volume 
Hess Express stores in Tampa, Orlando, Fort Myers and Naples, is the largest region in Retail Marketing, serving close to 250,000 customers per day. West Florida achieved premier safety performance in the Retail organization with a 33 percent 
reduction in recordable incident rate and a 
58 percent reduction in lost time/restricted duty rate in 2007 compared to 2006. 
WOR kf ORCE SA f E t Y  
PER
f
ORMANCE
Safety processes and performance targets 
include both employees and contractors where appropriate. Over the past three 
years we have institutionalized the  
collection of both employee and contractor 
data across the corporation. 
In order to provide a safe work environment 
for our workforce, we continue to emphasize contractor safety management in our  
operations. Contractor selection processes 
include review and verification of contractor management systems and historical safety performance. An emphasis on competency in hazard recognition, safe work behaviors and process safety capabilities is included in these reviews. Clear expectations for 
24SAFETY  P ERFORMANCE
The company’s annual Chairman’s Award  
for Safety Excellence recognizes one  
operation or group that has demonstrated an 
outstanding commitment to workforce safety 
through systematic processes, exceptional safety performance and sustainability of safety improvement. In addition to the Chair -
man’s Award, President’s Awards are also given in both the exploration and production and marketing and refining operations for 
excellent safety performance. 
www.hess.comChairman’s Award for  
Safety Excellence
Seminole Gas Plant, Texasstrong safety awareness on the part of 
contract personnel are included in  
orientation briefings before contractors  
are allowed access to Hess facilities or 
sites, and ongoing emphasis on safety work practices is provided.
We have achieved significant improvement 
in the past three years in total workforce safety performance. Our TRIR decreased by 42 percent between 2005 and 2007. 
During this same time period the workforce LT/RD incident rate declined by 53 percent.In 2007 , 50 percent of our 46.9 million workforce hours were from employees (23.6 million), with the balance of  
hours from contractors (23.3 million). The  
majority of contractor hours are accounted  
for at our overseas locations, predominantly 
at our major development projects in  
Indonesia, Thailand and Equatorial Guinea. 
ExPl ORA ti ON & PRO d UC ti ON
Our Exploration and Production (E&P)  
organization achieved a 4 percent reduction 
in TRIR and met their employee/contractor  
target for 2007. This improvement was 
achieved during a period of significant  
diversification of our geographical and technical portfolio and increasing competition  
for qualified labor. In 2007, 59 percent of E&P incidents occurred in Production operations, 35 percent in Drilling and  
6 percent in Developments.
These performance results are driven  
by improvement efforts across the E&P  
organization. One example is our South  
Arne Production Operation, which earned the 2007 Exploration and Production  
President’s Award for Safety Excellence. 
The South Arne production platform is  
located in the Central North Sea off the 
coast of Denmark. This operation has  
sustained improvements in employee  
and contractor safety since 2005 during  
a period of high activity in challenging  
circumstances. Actions to improve 
performance and the results achieved were recognized by the Danish regulatory authorities, certifying bodies, partners  
and contractors.
Two other notable safety successes in E&P , 
the Sinphuhorm and Pangkah operations,  
were commissioned and started up in 2007 in Southeast Asia in a short time frame with no injuries or process safety incidents. Using an implementation strategy 
developed to ensure safe start up beginning in the design stage and followed through to commissioning, production facilities and associated developments personnel worked more than 10 million hours without a lost time incident.
MAR k E ti N g  & RE fi N i N g
Our Marketing and Refining (M&R)  
businesses, operated primarily by Hess 
employees, continued to make progress  
in employee safety performance, achieving  
a 24 percent reduction in incidents 
compared to 2006. M&R met its targeted reduction in the employee recordable  
incident rate, reaching a year end rate of 1.65, compared to the target rate of 1.95. 
25S
AFETY
 P
ERFORMANCE
Hess l ocations and  
Operations Celebrate 
g
lobal  
Safety Appreciation 
d
ay
Global Safety Appreciation Day, held 
worldwide across Hess for the first time in September 2007, helped highlight 
the progress the company has made 
in instilling safe practices in the culture 
and focused each work group on 
actions they could take to make their workplace even safer.
U.S. Retail 33%
U.S. Remainder 21%
Algeria 19%
Equatorial Guinea 9%
Indonesia 9%
Thailand 3%U.K. 2%
Malaysia 1%
Denmark 1%
St. Lucia 1%
Remainder  1%
(10 countries)2007 Wo rkfor ce Hours
(47 Million Employee + Contractor Hours)Workfor ce Safety Performance
1.57
0.00.20.40.60.81.01.21.41.61.8
05  06  07  1.10
1.04
0.63
0.91
0.52
Workforc e TRIR (Employee + Contractor)
Workforc e LT/RD (Employee + Contractor)Cases per 200,000 hoursRetail employees had notable performance  
improvement in 2007 enabling M&R and 
the company to achieve better than  
targeted performance.
In addition, our Terminal Operations  
have made significant progress in safety  
improvement. Region II earned the 2007 Marketing and Refining President’s Award for Safety Excellence. Employees and 
Contractors in Terminal Operations Region II,  
encompassing eight terminals along the East Coast of the United States, had no recordable injuries in 2007. 
The Hess Oil St. Lucia Ltd. Terminal, which 
handled 105 ships and 49 million barrels of oil and refined product introduced several key safety initiatives in 2007. The Terminal employees experienced zero recordable 
incidents in 2007 and only one recordable 
incident in the past three years.
JOiN t  v EN t URES
Beginning in this report we are including  
information on the performance of our  
major joint venture partnerships. Our major joint ventures (SonaHess, HOVENSA, and 
the Caragali Hess Joint Development Area) improved their employee safety performance results in 2007 compared to 2006. All  
of these joint venture operations have  
significant contractor involvement. 
To continue to drive performance 
improvement, our SonaHess joint venture conducted a comprehensive Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) gap analysis that  
identified objectives which focus on adding value. Prioritized 90-day EHS improvement plans were identified and completed as a 
means to ensure implementation of safety improvement strategies. Efforts like these helped SonaHess reduce its combined employee/contractor recordable incident rate to 0.33, achieving top quartile perfor -
mance for E&P onshore operations and  
the best workforce safety performance 
since the joint venture started.
Our HOVENSA joint venture uses a set of 
Key Behavior Indices (KBI’s) which identify and communicate critical EHS performance issues to site personnel. Sustained 
improvement of the site’s Process Safety Management system has continued to  
reduce risk and improve reliability. Additionally,  
HOVENSA conducted a Safety Climate Survey in the second quarter of 2007.  
This survey opened a clear communication channel and identified key areas for improvement in EHS. Actions like these, combined with other strong systems, helped HOVENSA achieve a combined employee/contractor recordable incident rate of 0.52 to make 2007 the safest year on record and resulted in a 17 percent 
improvement over the 2006 rate.
The Caragali Hess Joint Development Area 
achieved a combined employee/contractor recordable incident rate of 0.44 a reduction of 17 percent compared to 2006.Exploration & Pr oduction
Total Recor dable Incident Rate
0.00.20.40.60.81.01.2
05  06  07  1.04
0.88
0.18
0.53
0.48
0.12
0.54
0.460.22
Employee Contractor Workforc e
Target (W orkfor ce) 0.53Cases per 200,000 hours
26SAFETY  P ERFORMANCE
Marketing & Refining
Total Recor dable Incident Rate
0.00.51.01.52.02.53.0
0.822.39
2.25
2.17
2.01
0.441 .65
1.560.14
Employee Contractor Workforc e
Target (Employee) 1.95Cases per 200,000 hours
05  06  07  Joint Ve ntures
Total Recor dable Incident Rate
0.00.10.20.30.40.50.60.7
SonaHess HOVENSA JDA0.49
0.33
0.52
0.53
0.440.63
2006 2007Cases per 200,000 hours
www.hess.comEMER g ENCY RESPONSE 
Hess Corporation works to ensure that  
our operations run as safely as possible.  
As part of this effort, employees routinely 
participate in preparedness drills to train 
and practice response and recovery capabili-ties in a realistic but controlled environment. Emergency response and crisis management drills are valuable tools for maintaining a 
high level of preparedness should a major incident take place.
EMER g ENCY COMMUN i CA ti ONS
Natural and man-made disasters such as  
earthquakes, hurricanes, and power black-
outs have demonstrated the importance 
of communications in crisis situations. 
Hess has implemented a new emergency notification system that substantially im-proves our ability to maintain contact with employees using two-way communication with voice, text and internet-based devices. Should operations be affected, the company 
is able to alert employees and provide vital information on workplace status, health and safety instructions and crisis management  
decisions. In the event of a crisis, the whereabouts and safety of staff can be established and employees can provide feedback on their personal safety. 
27S
AFETY
 P
ERFORMANCE
Emergency Response d rill –  
Port Reading Refinery
In October 2007, the Hess Port Reading 
Refinery hosted an emergency response drill conducted by the New Jersey Division 
of Fire Safety and the New Jersey Office 
of Homeland Security and Preparedness. 
The purpose of the drill was to exercise 
current emergency response plans and capabilities in which industry and U.S. federal, state, county, and local government agencies would respond to a terrorist 
event in New Jersey involving infrastructure critical to national security. Teams discussed the actions required in response to a fire necessitating the deployment of equipment and personnel from across Northern New Jersey. The primary consideration in each decision was the safety of employees and neighboring residential and commercial communities. The refinery plans to  
participate in a “live” emergency drill  
with the same agencies in 2008.Sinphuhorm Gas Plant, Thailand
0510152025303540Joint Ve nture - 2007 ManhoursMillion hours
ContractorsHess* SonaHess JV HOVENSA JV JDA JV
Employee
*Hess W orkforce hours excludes SonaHessENvi RONMEN t A l 
PER
f
ORMANCE
Rice field near Sinphuhorm Project, ThailandENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
We recognize that to grow our business 
and help meet the increasing global  demand for energy, we must do so in a 
manner that protects the world’s land,  
water and air resources. We understand that our operations will have some impact upon the environment. We manage  
these impacts, as identified by both our  
management systems and by our key stakeholders, through environmentally  
sound practices.
glOBA l Cli MA t E  C HAN g E
Climate change is a global concern with 
potentially significant consequences for society and the energy industry. The 
company is committed to the responsible 
management of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from our operations and will seek to minimize its carbon footprint  
wherever practicable. We will also use  
the emerging carbon market to help  
manage our compliance and identify  
capital project opportunities.
In 2006, we outlined our four element GHG 
strategy to Monitor, Measure, Manage and Mitigate our emissions. Over the past two years the company has made significant progress in monitoring and measuring its GHG emissions. We have standardized our reporting methodology based on our 
own detailed protocol (available on hess.com)  
 which is derived from The GHG  
Protocol, a collaborative effort of the  
World Business Council for Sustainable 
Development and the World Resources  
Institute, and also relies upon guidance 
provided in the Petroleum Industry Guidelines for Reporting Greenhouse Gas Emissions developed by the International Petroleum 
Industry Environmental Conservation  Association (IPIECA), the International  Association of Oil and Gas Producers (OGP), and the American Petroleum Institute (API). In order to standardize emissions measurement practices we have adopted the API tool (SANGEA) designed specifically for the oil and gas industry. 
We have had a leading third-party verification  
organization conduct an independent 
review of our protocol and greenhouse gas inventory. In 2007 , we implemented recommendations made during this review by providing source materiality definitions and a list of potential emission sources. We have also issued specific business unit guidance and implemented a tiered uncertainty analysis methodology.
In 2007 , we implemented a Climate Change 
Network comprised of senior managers and specialists from across the company 
to develop a mitigation strategy for minimizing  
our carbon footprint. The network is focusing on energy efficiency, flaring and venting and carbon capture and storage. The network is also providing guidance on factoring carbon price into our future development strategies.
Hess supports the development of a 
global GHG market as a practical means to reduce overall emissions. We recently strengthened our commitment to GHG 
markets by joining the International Emissions Trading Association. We also support climate change legislation that treats all affected parties equitably and in 
29a cost-effective manner. Furthermore, we 
believe that legislative action in the U.S. will encourage innovation, enhance energy 
security, foster economic growth, improve 
the balance of trade and set an example for global leadership. We are committed to finding a pathway that will slow, stop and reverse the growth of emissions while expanding the economy.
gREENHOUSE g AS  
PER
f
ORMANCE
The company has two major sources of 
GHG emissions: combustion of hydrocarbon fuels for power generation and flaring of  
associated gas. Additional processes, 
such as acid gas removal, can also be a significant source.
Hess Operated Emissions
Our total GHG emissions increased by  
19 percent, from 5.36 million tonnes in 
2006 to 6.40 million tonnes in 2007.  
Our normalized emissions also increased 
by 14 percent. Increases in emissions are 
largely associated with new production 
in Indonesia and Thailand together with rapid production growth in Equatorial Guinea. 
In addition, anticipated reductions from the Gas Compression and Reinjection (GCR) project in Algeria did not occur in 2007 due to project delays. However, the  commissioning of GCR projects in both  Algeria and Equatorial Guinea are expected to lead to significant reductions in 2008.
Hess Net Equity Emissions
In 2007, we began to quantify our GHG emissions based on our net equity (financial) interests. Quantifying net equity emissions 
is complicated and we consider it a work in progress. Our net equity emissions are estimated at 9.61 million tonnes in 2007. Net equity emissions are far greater than our operated base mainly due to the inclusion of emissions from our major Joint Ventures: 
the HOVENSA refinery, one of the worlds largest refineries, and the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area (JDA) as well as non-operated assets.
Also included are emissions from the  
Samara Nafta operation in Russia. Other 
significant non-operated sources include our interests in: the Pailin field in Thai-land; the Azeri-Chirag-Gunashli fields in Azerbaijan; the Beryl field and associated tiebacks in the U.K.; the Sage, St. Fergus, 
Gas Terminal in the U.K.; the Valhall and Snovit fields in Norway; the Toucan, Rabi Kounga and Atora fields in Gabon; and  
the Oasis Joint Venture in Libya.
30ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
Operated Gr eenhouse Gas Emissions by Sour ce
(6.40 Million tonnes)
Flaring 50%
Fuel Combustion 38%
Indirect Emissions 9%
Acid Gas Removal 2%
Other  1%Greenhouse Gas Emissions (CO2 Eqv.)
(Operated Assets)
02 03 04 05 06 0701234567
10111213141516
GHG        Normalized GHG6.12
5.44
5.13
5.58
5.36
6.4013.80
12.26
12.02
14.9912.68
13.14GHG
(Million Tonnes)
Emission Rate
(tonnes/1,000 boe)
2007 Gr eenhouse Gas Emissions
Hess Operated Hess Net Equity
Hess M&R Hess E&P Samara Nafta
SonaHess JV JDA JV HOVENSA JV
Non-Operated E&P012345678910
6.40
9.61GHG
(Million Tonnes)
www.hess.comHess Net Equity Emissions by Country
(9.6 Million tonnes CO2 eqv.)
U.S.V .I. 28%
U.S. 18%
JDA Malaysia/Thailand 14%
Equatorial Guinea 14%
Algeria 10%
Other Countries (<2% each)  8%
U.K. 6%
Thailand 2%Other Countries
Gabon 1.72%
Norway 1.46%
Russia 1.34%
Denmark 1.27%
Libya 1.18%
Indonesia 0.80%
Azerbaijan 0.54%
St. Lucia 0.03%Hydrogen
We continue to explore new frontiers of energy with our investment in Nuvera  
Fuel Cells, a subsidiary in Billerica, Mass. 
Nuvera is a global leader in the development and advancement of multi-fuel processing  
and fuel cell technology committed to providing safe, efficient and sustainable hydrogen power solutions for automotive and transportation applications. Our invest-
ment in creating greater fuel efficiency in transportation would have the important added benefit of helping to solve the critical challenge of climate change. ENER g Y USE
Our overall energy consumption, which 
includes all of the energy we use and purchase plus the energy we are unable to 
use in the form of flaring, increased by 1.5 
percent from 39.54 Peta Joules in 2006 to 40.15 Peta Joules in 2007. When normalized against production and throughput our overall energy decreased by 2.3 percent from 0.87 Giga Joules/tonne in 2006 to 0.85 Giga Joules/tonne in 2007.
AiR EM i SS i ONS
The predominant source of sulfur oxides 
(SOx) and nitrogen oxides (NOx) from  
our operations are power generation and 
flaring. Major sources of volatile organic 
compounds (VOC) are flaring and hydro-carbon loading operations. The impacts of these criteria air emissions are much more localized than those associated with climate change. Therefore, the appropriate  
controls and mitigation measures vary from  
location to location. This makes a corporate 
wide target for emission reductions difficult. Our goal, where possible, is to reduce our normalized emissions year on year. 
Over the past six years the normalized  
overall trend has been downward, decreasing on average by around 25 percent. However, in 2007 our normalized emissions of NOx, 
SOx and VOC increased by 4 percent,  
3 percent and 2 percent respectively. 
 
These slight increases in emissions are 
due mainly to incremental increases in 
energy use, especially in maturing assets 
where additional energy is required to maintain production.Fuel Quality
The production of motor fuels and other 
fuels in the U.S. and elsewhere has faced increasingly stringent regulatory standards in recent years to reduce sulfur content and other components. Our refining opera-tions manufacture conventional and refor -
mulated gasolines that meet or exceed all U.S. federal requirements. In addition, 100 percent of the diesel fuel that we produce meets or exceeds the ultra-low sulfur 
diesel standards that were implemented in 2006. Our fuels are also formulated to allow for blending of renewable products such as ethanol. Over 50 percent of the gasoline sold to our customers contains renewable fuel. The Federal Renewable 
Fuels Standards implemented in 2006 and significantly expanded in 2008 mandate a rapid increase in renewable fuel usage in the U.S. through 2022. Our current products exceed existing requirements, and we are poised to continue to surpass these 
standards with our ongoing commitment 
to clean, renewable fuel sources.
31ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
Renewable Energy
As a significant customer for electricity, 
Hess set a 2007 target that 10 percent of its electricity purchases would come 
from renewable sources. We achieved 
this target with the purchase of 100,000 
Megawatt hours of Green E-certified  
renewable energy. This quantity of  
renewable energy is equivalent to 60,000 
barrels of oil or 14,000 tons of coal and has potentially avoided the emission 
of 40,000 tonnes of CO
2 equivalent. 
Similarly, we have avoided the emission 
of 170 tonnes of SO2 and 68 tonnes 
of NOx from fossil fuel generation. We have not applied any GHG avoidance 
from this purchase to our corporate 
emissions inventory.012345678910Normalized Emissions
NOx (tonnes/100,000 boe)
SO2 (tonnes/million boe)VOC (tonnes/100,000 boe)02 03 04 05 06 07SPill S AN d  RE l EASES
Our operations have the potential to  
impact land and water resources. We  
have established controls to minimize 
these impacts and metrics to help us 
monitor and improve our performance.
Oil Spills
Although our goal is to have no spills,  
accidental releases do occur. We track  our spills company wide to monitor  performance, identify root causes and  
plan mitigation measures.
Hess operations experienced 129 oil spills 
in 2007 compared to 115 in 2006. 
 The 
majority (55 percent) of our spills occurred 
at retail stations and were very small. We 
did have a single 97 barrel gasoline spill 
from the failure of an underground storage tank at a retail station in Florida. Cleanup activities were initiated immediately and resulted in the recovery of approximately 40 percent of the gasoline within the first seven days. Removal of gasoline 
impacted soil and groundwater cleanup was subsequently completed. 
Our Exploration and Production operations 
had 47 spills in 2007 compared to 27 in 2006. In total, 329 barrels were spilled in 2007. A single incident at the South Arne platform in Denmark resulted in a 220  
barrel spill into the sea when a diesel tank was overfilled. HOVENSA, which is tracked  
seperately from Hess operated facilities, had 14 oil spills amounting to 16 barrels of oil.
Other Spills
Other spills are those which have the  potential to result in environmental impact but which do not meet our oil spill definition. Examples include produced brine from onshore oil fields, drilling fluids and chemicals. In 2007 there were 36 spills other than oil amounting to 1,959 barrels, with 75 
percent of the spilled volume occurring on land. There were five spills greater than 100 barrels in 2007, which included a 347 barrel acid spill in North Dakota, a synthetic  based drilling mud spill in the Gulf of Mexico 
and three produced water line failures in the Permian Basin. Typically, we apply  the same level of attention to other spill  reporting, investigation and cleanup as  we do for hydrocarbon spills.
Offshore Discharges
The volume of oil discharged in produced water at Hess operated offshore facilities decreased from 1,409 barrels in 2006 to 1,193 barrels in 2007. The average oil in water concentration across all discharging  
installations decreased from 17 ppm in 2006 to 15 ppm in 2007. This is well below the generally accepted regulatory limits of 30-40 ppm. Major reductions were achieved at the Triton Floating Production  
Storage and Offloading facility in the U.K. North Sea, where a new separation package was installed late in 2006 which 
has improved its 2007 produced water discharge performance significantly.  
In addition, the South Arne platform in  
Denmark injected 1.5 million barrels of produced water for disposal in 2007.  
Reinjection reduces the volume of oil  
discharged to sea. Produced water  
discharges at the JDA joint venture  
were around 20 ppm in 2007, well  
below the design discharge limit.
In 2007, our overall volume of drilling mud 
and cuttings increased due to a larger 
number of wells drilled. The amount of oil discharged with cuttings decreased from 585 tons in 2006 to 352 tons in 2007.  
On a well-to-well basis, oil on cuttings fell from 33 tons per well to 15 tons per well.
32ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
Number & V olume of Oil Spills
050100150200250300
    020040060080010001200140016001800      2000
02 03 04 05 06 07
Volume of Oil Spills (bbls)
Number of Oil Spills (#)406
1 ,330
192
270
31,445
458 129181
184
313
531
14.98115Number of Spills
Volume of spills (bbls)
www.hess.comDelayed coker unit, HOVENSAOnshore Discharges
At our U.S. E&P , Terminals and Refining  
facilities, we continued our excellent 
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination 
System performance, achieving 99.7 percent compliance in 2007. Both Port Reading and HOVENSA refineries had good waste water discharge performance with all permitted parameters well below specified limits. 
RESOURCE USE
Waste
In 2007 we amended our waste definitions to incorporate waste water treatment in 
order to align with regulatory reporting 
requirements in most of our locations.  
We have applied this definition retroactively to 2006 and 2005 data. The overall quantity of waste generated at Hess operated locations decreased by 44 percent from 193,997 tons in 2006 to 109,492 tons in 
2007. 
 The majority of the reduction is 
accounted for by the completion of clean 
up operations in the Permian Basin, which 
was responsible for 40 percent of the 2006 total. Approximately 70 percent of waste 
generated was recycled. Approximately  
1 percent of waste generated in 2007  
was categorized as hazardous. 
In 2007 we did not export any waste 
deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention.
Our HOVENSA joint venture refinery  
generated 20,441 tons of waste in 2007, 
61 percent of which was recycled. 7,918 tons of the waste generated at HOVENSA was classified as hazardous, 87 percent of which was recycled. The JDA joint venture generated 236 tons of hazardous waste in 2007, 66 percent of which was recycled.
Water
We consumed approximately 67 million barrels of water for cooling and reservoir pressurization purposes. Our biggest con-sumers were Permian Basin Production (31 percent), the Seminole Gas Plant (31 percent) and the Port Reading Refinery (22 percent). Around 68 percent of water used is abstracted. All 14 million barrels used at 
Port Reading and 6 million used in Retail and Terminal operations is provided by the local utility companies.
HOVENSA used approximately 5 million 
barrels of ground water. It meets most of its water needs by seawater desalination.
In 2007, we reinjected approximately 97 
million barrels of produced non-potable water, 64 percent of which was used for  oil field pressurization and the remaining 
36 percent for disposal. ENvi RONMEN t A l  S t EWAR d SH i P 
AN
d
 B
i
O
div
ERS
it
Y
Our systematic approach to environmen-
tal management and our commitment to understanding the human and natural 
ecosystems in which we work includes  
undertaking environmental baseline  
surveys and environmental and social  
impact assessments (ESIA) prior to  
the start up of new operations. These  assessments are used to develop  
appropriate operational controls and  
on going monitoring during operations.
As a global organization we face the chal-
lenge of conducting operations in many geographic areas with sensitive or unique biological characteristics. We do not cur -
rently operate in any areas designated as protected areas by the World Conserva-tion Union (IUCN). Our environmental policy clearly states our commitment to recognize the existence of, and to comply with, all legal and regulatory requirements related to any protected area. Further, our commitment to high standards of environ-mental responsibility in all aspects of our global operations extends to areas where legal and regulatory requirements are less defined. In all areas, both with and without “protected” designations, our processes identify sensitivities and form the basis for practices that protect the environment.
Our EHS & SR management system en-
sures key environmental objectives are in-tegrated into the overall business planning process and identifies appropriate ways to reduce environmental impacts related 
33ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
Oil in Pr oduced W ater Discharges to Sea
02 03 04 05 06 0705001,0001,5002,0002,5003,000
05101520252,534
2,461
1,985
1,796
1,409
1,19315
15
16
20
1517Oil Volume in Pr oduced W ater (bbls)
Oil Concentration in
Produced Water (ppm V)
Oil Volume in Pr oduced W ater (bbls)
Oil Concentration in Pr oduced W ater (ppm V)to current operations and new projects. 
Our operating units establish and maintain documented environmental objectives, 
including those addressing biodiversity, and 
manage progress toward those objectives.
Environmental/Social Impact Assessments
Our commitment to the UN Global 
Compact, together with our policies and working practices, reflect the links between human welfare, cultural diversity 
and environmental conservation. For major new projects, we employ a risk-based  
approach to ESIA that enables the evaluation of potential impacts and the effectiveness of mitigation measures.
Biodiversity considerations are incorporated 
throughout an ESIA, including consideration of the biological, chemical and physical characteristics of the area under study. The ESIA examines boundaries, services, continuity and scale of ecosystems, as well as crossborder and human interactions with ecosystems. We use the best available  
guidelines and tools, such as those developed by the Energy and Biodiversity 
Initiative (EBI), the IPIECA, Wildlife Con-servation Society (WCS), and IUCN to 
assess biodiversity sensitivities.  
Assessments are enhanced through local 
knowledge, site specific investigations and risk assessments. Typically, ESIAs are conducted by qualified consultants with specific expertise relevant to the natural and socioeconomic setting of the project 
or activity. These consultants are managed through a process that ensures our  
environmental expectations and  
requirements are met.
We also consider the interactions between 
ecosystems and the people who depend on them. Community environmental and health expectations are considered, regard-less of regulations. Ongoing and open consultation with concerned communities is a priority. Community input is integrated into key decision making and information sharing with communities occurs regularly during all phases of operations.gHANA  - S E i SM i C  S UR v EYS   
AN
d M
AR
i
NE
 M
AMMA
l
S
 
During the first quarter of 2007 we 
conducted 2D and 3D seismic surveys offshore Ghana. In an effort to minimize 
or avoid potential impacts to marine 
mammals, Hess put in place a detailed mitigation effort that included a protected species watch program in response to our environmental assessment. Identifying  and understanding the environmental  sensitivities in the area was a key compo-
nent to the project. As there were very  little baseline data on marine mammals in the area to be surveyed, we elected to take a precautionary approach by following  
Joint Nature Conservation Committee Guidelines (JNCC) for minimizing acoustic  
disturbance to marine mammals from seismic surveys. 
As an additional measure of protection  
we voluntarily employed trained marine 
biologists as Marine Mammal Observers (MMOs), certified under JNCC requirements. There were no observations on the 2D survey, but many on the 3D survey. The vast majority of observations were different species of dolphins and pilot whales. 
Exploration activity in Ghanaian waters 
continued in early 2008 with a controlled source electromagnetic (CSEM) survey. In  
a concerted effort to provide a consistent and cohesive protected species watch program MMOs were once again voluntarily utilized for this survey even though CSEM is considered to have a much more benign  
effect upon fauna. The ongoing deployment 
34ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
www.hess.com
Sperm whale, offshore Ghanaof leading practice monitoring and mitigation  
activities is intended to strengthen the 
baseline understanding of marine mammal 
behaviors in the area, enabling our future 
operations to continue to minimize potential impacts to the marine environment.
HOvENSA gROUN d WA t ER  Cl EANUP
HOVENSA has worked closely with the EPA 
on groundwater cleanup following the 1982 discovery of petroleum leaks from under -
ground tanks. Since that time, more than 95 
percent of petroleum has been reclaimed, with 1.2 million gallons still to be recovered. HOVENSA’s release impacted non-potable groundwater and has been largely confined  
on site. The recovered groundwater is treated  
in the refinery’s wastewater treatment system  
to separate the petroleum product from the 
water and to ensure that the water meets regulatory standards before it is discharged. The recovered petroleum is recycled in the refinery. In addition, HOVENSA has instituted extensive measures to prevent future releases.liQUE fi E d  NA t URA l  g AS
Natural gas, together with energy conser -
vation, efficiency, and renewable energy, 
can help meet the growing demand for 
cleaner energy, while helping to reduce 
emissions of greenhouse gases and air pollutants. Liquefied natural gas (LNG) is a cost-effective means of moving natural gas from producers to consumers where pipelines are not economically viable due  
to distance or technical limitations. 
Hess has a 92.5 percent interest in a joint 
venture, Hess LNG, which is pursuing investments in LNG terminals and related supply, trading and marketing opportunities. Hess LNG owns Weaver’s Cove Energy, which is proposing to build a LNG receiving terminal in Fall River, Massachusetts. The project has received approval from the  
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, but  
is opposed by officials from Massachusetts and Rhode Island over perceived security and environmental issues.In addition, Shannon LNG, an Irish subsidiary  
of Hess LNG, is proposing to build a liquefied 
natural gas LNG receiving terminal on the Shannon Estuary in County Kerry, Ireland. Planning consent was granted for this  
facility in April, 2008. 
PROd UC t  S t EWAR d SH i P
Our company’s products are consumed  
by millions of people each day. We manu-
facture quality products that can be used 
safely by our customers. Our products 
comply with all relevant legislation and meet health, safety and environmental requirements. Our Customer Service organization provides our customers with detailed information and support in relation to the products they purchase from us. 
We continuously review the potential hazards 
and risks associated with our product line to prevent and minimize impacts to human health or the environment. We collaborate  
with industry partners, government agencies  
and the scientific community concerning the safe use of our products. We do not perform any animal testing on our products nor do we contract for any animal testing on our behalf. Our EHS professionals pro-vide our businesses and customers with expert guidance on all of the products we sell. We assess our products to detect any environmental, health or safety hazards, and provide Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) that are intended to enhance the  
safe handling, storage and use of our  
products. MSDSs for all our products are available to the public on our company Web site and by direct mail when requested.
35ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
Pumping unit in North DakotaDrilling operations in AlgeriaglOBA l  
WOR
kf
ORCEGLOBAL WORKFORCE
Access to skilled professionals is an  
increasing challenge for the energy industry and for Hess. Over the next decade the 
industry will experience a tight labor market 
in which talented people will become a key competitive advantage. Hess is committed to attracting, retaining and energizing the very best people by investing in their  
professional development and providing them with challenging and rewarding  
opportunities for growth. 
At year end 2007 our worldwide employee 
headcount was 12,071. More than 91 percent of our employees are based in the U.S., with approximately 67 percent of employees working in our U.S. retail field network. Non U.S. employees are located  
in the United Kingdom, Norway, Denmark, Russia, Equatorial Guinea, Egypt, Algeria,  Gabon, Libya, Indonesia, Thailand, Azerbaijan, Singapore, Brazil and Malaysia.We hired 786 new professionals in 2007, 
with 79 percent in the U.S., 6 percent in the U.K., 5 percent in Indonesia and 4 
percent in Malaysia. In addition, at our 
U.S. locations we hired 165 cooperative education and summer students.
Hess Corporation paid $636 million in 
salary and benefits to employees in 2007. The global oil and gas sector has seen increased activity and capital investment 
in recent years that has raised workforce demand. As would be expected in this environment, employee turnover rates and contractor hiring has increased across the entire oil sector. Despite this challenging environment, our salaried employee turnover rate was a modest 4.7 percent.
tRAiN i N g  AN d  d E v E l OPMEN t
Our values help guide our company in  
attracting and retaining a diverse global workforce. In order to attract skilled national 
employees in our areas of operation we 
actively recruit through national professional and trade associations and advertise in local and national publications. We also present information regarding the company and its operations at international professional conferences. To provide all employees 
opportunities for development and long term advancement, we offer training and  career counseling and list open global  positions on an internal Web site. The company offers an extended array of benefits that includes flexible spending accounts with dependent care options and work/life referral services.
37U.S. Retail 67%
U.S. Remainder 24%
International 9%2007 Employee Headcount
(12,071 Employees)
Inter national
U.K. 2.25%
Equatorial Guinea  1.63%
Indonesia 1.59%
Malaysia 1.10%Denmark 0.58%
Thailand 0.36%
Algeria 0.36%
Other Countries 0.71%38Hess Workforce Nationalization Programs in Equatorial Guinea
www.hess.comHess has made significant progress in developing national employees for their current and 
future roles. We are committed to enabling all of our Equatorial Guinea national employees to develop and achieve their potential. Hess endeavors to attract high potential Equatorial Guinea 
national residents as employees so that they can be trained and guided to occupy positions 
of increasing responsibility. 
Through our commitment to nationalization we have achieved a 75 percent level of employee 
positions being filled by Equatorial Guinea nationals. We are now approaching a level where the remaining expatriate employee positions are specialized and require significant interna-
tional industry experience. Upward movement by our national employees into these more senior roles will take time, but Hess will continue to explore opportunities to accelerate the process where possible. Of the management team reporting to the Hess country manager, two are senior level nationals. The effectiveness of our management team is enhanced by having this national perspective represented in management decisions.
In addition, the main contractor providing operations and maintenance personnel and other technical support services to Hess is developing and implementing a Nationalization Plan on behalf of Hess. The operations and maintenance of the facilities will be increasingly performed by nationals to meet the targets set by Hess and the government. The scope of the Nationalization Plan includes all positions within the scope of services being supplied by the contractor. There are two groups of personnel involved in the Nationalization Plan: existing nationals and future 
‘new recruits’.
The program commenced in January 2007 with 15 recruits and will increase its numbers over the next few years. This phased approach  
allows the number of trainees undergoing various levels of training to be kept in optimum class sizes. To ensure the highest standard of  training, a new training facility has been established and staffed with internationally experienced trainers. The first group of trainees graduated from phase 1, English class, in September 2007 and began further language, science and safety training. A second class of an additional 15 trainees commenced in September 2007. 
Each trainee will undergo a seven-year program leading to qualification as a base level production operator or maintenance technician. The first 
three years of the program involve full time attendance at the training facility. During this period, trainees will develop the language, science, safety and foundation skills necessary to be able to commence the offshore stage of their development. The fourth year is a mix of classroom based and field training. The final three years is their apprenticeship in the specific discipline where they will be employed. The apprenticeship focuses on technical and safety development. Detailed competency profiles are established for each discipline and the progress of each trainee is tracked against these competencies.
In a separate initiative, the oil Industry, in conjunction with the government, is establishing the Instituto Tecnologico Nacional de Hidrocarburos 
de Guinea Ecuatorial (ITNHGE). Hess is participating in this initiative and is examining ways it can integrate the Nationalization Plan with the development of an industry accredited training program conducted under the auspices of the ITNHGE.Equatorial Guinea - 2007 Staf fing Summary
(175 Employees)
National Staf f
   Professional 13
   Trainee Pr ofessional  20
   Business Support 33
   Other Support 68Expatriate Staf f
   Professional 41The company develops employees to 
maximize their potential in order to create an organization capable of achieving its 
business objectives. In 2007, we spent 
$11.4 million on technical and personal development training with each salaried employee averaging approximately 25 hours of training. In 2007, 311 U.S. em-ployees received support for continuing further education.
Our Africa Business Unit has initiated  
an industry-leading Nationalization and 
Training program to attract and retain  
employees who can make a significant  
contribution not only to the Hess business but also to the skills base of the country where we do business. Expatriates are  
recruited for both their technical expertise and their commitment to mentor and develop national employees. National employees  
are engaged
 
after a rigorous recruitment 
program based on both their ability and their potential for growth and advancement. EQUA l  EMP l OYMEN t   
OPPOR
t
UN
it
Y
Our commitment to global diversity is essential 
as we strive for top quartile performance across the company. The company does not 
tolerate any form of workplace harassment 
including sexual harassment of an employee or employment candidate.
The company provides equal employment 
opportunity to all employees and job  
applicants regardless of race, color, religion, sex, age, sexual orientation, creed, national 
origin or disability. All terms and conditions of employment, including compensation  and opportunities for advancement, are based on qualifications and job performance. In addition to the requirements of national laws and regulations, the company adheres to fair employment practices because it makes good sense and is the right thing  
to do. The company’s reputation as a fair 
employer that recognizes individual rights not only attracts and retains employees, but is also valuable in vendor and customer 
relationships. The company prepares  
an annual Affirmative Action Program  
to set specific goal oriented guidelines.  
The program strives to ensure realization 
of equal employment opportunity objectives.
All complaints of harassment are treated 
seriously and confidentially. Employees  are encouraged to report any questionable behavior to their supervisors. If the  
situation involves the supervisor, the  
employee contacts the department  
manager or Human Resources. 
As of December 2007, there were  
two female non executive members of  
our board and there was no board  
representation from outside the United 
States. In the United States, 38 percent of managers and 41 percent of our  
workforce were women. There are currently no women or minorities among the Hess  
Leadership Team.
39GLOBAL WORKFORCE
Joint Development Area Platform in Malaysia / Thailand40GLOBAL WORKFORCE
www.hess.comSupplier Diversity Program  
Our Supplier Diversity Program ensures that qualified minority owned and women 
owned suppliers are included in our pro-
curement sourcing process. Of the $2.3 billion in U.S. supplier payments in 2007, 33 percent ($749 million) of materials and services were purchased from more than 3,000 minority and women owned businesses. Most of these suppliers are 
located in the communities where we conduct business, such as New Jersey, Texas and North Dakota. Purchasing from these small businesses promotes quality and competitive pricing and strengthens communities in which we live and work.
PROMO ti N g  EMP l OYEE  
i
N
v
O
lv
EMEN
t
Several mechanisms exist for employees 
to provide feedback to the company. Our compliance hotline is a 24-hour resource 
available to employees to share their 
concerns or report issues. To assess our employees’ level of engagement, as well as their perspectives of our overall 
performance, we conduct a periodic global employee survey, “The Voice of Hess”. 
In April 2008 we completed our most 
recent survey with an 89 percent response rate, which was 4 percent higher than our target, 7 percent better than the last global employee survey and 9 percent above the average response rate for high performing companies. Our challenge is to identify those themes or patterns that emerge from the survey data in order to develop our action plans and implement them to improve our working environment. We will share additional information in next year’s report when results are available.
Hess is committed to providing a Total Pay 
Program that will help attract, retain and reward a skilled, extremely competent  and energized workforce wherever we  do business. Hess targets total pay levels  
that are higher than the average of other companies, and we actively survey to maintain that position. We are committed to practices, structures and processes  that help ensure a pay system that’s fair to everyone. We strive to reward people based on their performance and their 
contributions to the company’s success. Our Total Pay system includes a formal performance review for every employee each year and a proactive approach  
to career development. We utilize  
a Web-based career development  
performance tracking system. SUPPOR ti N g  HUMAN R ig H t S
Hess has endorsed the United Nations’ (UN) Global Compact which addresses human rights and labor issues. 
 This 
endorsement supports the UN Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights as it applies  
to companies and the International  
Labor Organization Declaration on the  
Fundamental Principles and Rights to  
Work. The Declaration asserts that four 
fundamental rights apply to all people in all states. Our policies and procedures support our commitment to human rights, freedom 
of association, elimination of forced or  
compulsory labor, abolition of child labor, and equal employment opportunity.
Freedom of association and right 
to collective bargaining. 
We recognize and respect our employees’ 
right to join associations and choose  representative organizations for the purpose of engaging in collective bargaining in a manner that is consistent with applicable laws, rules, and regulations as well as local customs as appropriate. Approximately  
7 percent of our employees are members  
of trade unions.
Prohibition of forced or  
compulsory labor.
We do not use forced or compulsory labor 
in any of our global operations.
Prohibition of child labor. 
We forbid the employment of children in our workforce. All employees are above the legal employment age in the country  of employment.U.S. Wo rkforc e
Employees Managers
Males Females59%
62%41%38%Gender %Prohibition of discrimination in respect 
of employment and occupation.
Hess recruits its employees and provides 
working conditions, including payment of 
wages and benefits, in compliance with  
applicable laws and regulations.
Voluntary Principles on Security  
and Human Rights.
Hess has adopted the internationally  
sponsored “Voluntary Principles on Security 
and Human Rights” requiring that any security services we employ, whether public or private, conform to the highest standards of professionalism and protect the human rights of all community members.
The company endorsed the Voluntary 
Principles process in 2003 and actively promotes the Voluntary Principles, as well 
as their underlying human rights obligations, 
through both our publications and our  
business practices. 
In 2007, Hess began implementation  
of a comprehensive, company-wide  “Human Rights Risk Assessment” (HRRA) document through which we can ensure compliance with all four of the voluntary multi-stakeholder initiatives we have endorsed. The HRRA will guide Hess in assessing the degree to which we, and where appropriate our business partners and the host governments, are meeting our com-mitments. In addition, the HRRA will help us identify any legal or reputational exposure we may face with respect to human rights issues and to take action accordingly. 
The HRRA will be distributed to Hess’ international operations during the first 
half of 2008 and training will be provided to employees and contractors. Subse-
quently, Hess will use the assessment tool 
as a guide for monitoring the company’s incorporation of policies and processes to ensure respect for human rights.
HEAlt H MANA g EMEN t
We encourage our employees to adopt  
a healthy lifestyle and offer programs  and initiatives to support their efforts. 
Workplace health promotion activities 
include: influenza vaccination, employee health fairs (blood pressure testing,  
nutritional advice) and presentations  
covering such topics as stress management, seasonal flu prevention, office ergonomics and nutrition. We also provide discounts for 
employees at selected health clubs. 
We recently launched a wellness initiative 
in the U.S. to help employees and their families live a healthy lifestyle and better manage health care. The initiative, called Health4Life, focuses on areas that  
can have the greatest positive impact  on personal health. Health4Life provides education, awareness, tools, incentives and programs through office-based and community activities, an Internet-based Web site, and a quarterly printed newsletter. 
We continue to provide comprehensive 
health, safety and personal security guidance to our employees traveling overseas.
We have developed pandemic preparedness 
plans and policies that can help protect the health and well being of Hess employees before and during a pandemic outbreak. In addition, we are strengthening our business continuity plans to help minimize business interruption in the event a pandemic should occur. Business unit preparedness plans 
have been drafted that are aligned with  the Corporate Pandemic Preparedness Action Plan, as well as local, national and international health efforts.
41GLOBAL WORKFORCE
Hess Corporation is committed  
to equal opportunity regardless of 
marital/family status, race, color,  
sex, age, religion, disability, sexual  
orientation, national origin or status  
as a disabled or Vietnam-era  
veteran. The company adheres  
to a policy of affirmative action  
and seeks to provide a work  
environment in which employees  
can realize their potential.
Hess is formally recognized by the following  
organizations for excellence in recruiting:COMMUN it Y & SOC i A l  
PER
f
ORMANCE
Third grade student in Hess sponsored school in Bata, Equatorial GuineaSocial Responsibility is a core value of our 
company. We have a strong commitment to make a long lasting, positive impact 
on the communities where we do busi-
ness. Because we believe that long-term sustainable progress can only be made by a healthy, well-educated community, we have chosen to focus our efforts largely on health and education. We seek to work closely with local communities to develop 
projects that provide measurable results. We also support the community based volunteer activities of our employees. In 2007, our social investment was more 
than $16 million, nearly triple the 2006 budget of $6 million. More than 57  
percent went to improving education. In 
addition to program support, we provided approximately $160,000 to disaster relief efforts principally in Indonesia, Ghana  and Peru. We also worked with a range of social development organizations in Algeria, Azerbaijan, Equatorial Guinea, 
Indonesia, Russia, Thailand, the United Kingdom and the United States. 
Equatorial Guinea
In partnership with the government, Hess has been instrumental in the development of the first 5 years of a 10 year $40 million education program. Termed “Prodege”, this project is designed to strengthen the nationwide educational system with a focus on children between ages 6 and 18. The project is improving teacher training, developing learning initiatives and improving school infrastructure. In 2007 , we contributed more than $8 million to this program. More information is presented later in this section.
In 2007, Hess Equatorial Guinea contributed 
an additional $700,000 for 15 projects in education and health. Several schools throughout the country were refurbished  
to enhance the learning environment.  
In addition, more than 3,000 treated bed nets were distributed in 22 communities to help fight malaria, and water wells were drilled and equipped to provide clean  
potable water. To date the water wells 
project is providing 50,000 residents in 
Equatorial Guinea 56%
USA 35%
Russia 3%
Indonesia 2%
Algeria 1%Azerbaijan 1%
Denmark 1%
Malaysia 0.4%
Egypt 0.1%2007 Social Investment by Country
(Excluding Disaster Relief)
Education 57%
Community 35%
Arts & Cultur e 6%
Health 2%
Environment 0.3%2007 T ype of Investment - $16.4 Million
(Excluding Disaster Relief)
43COMMUNITY & SOCIAL PERFORMANCEmore than 28 communities with clean  
water. Local contractors were used in all of 
the social works projects to provide addi-
tional local jobs and help residents develop 
trade skills and experience.
Algeria
In Algeria, Hess provided $50,000 to  
the non-governmental organization SOS Kinderdorf to build a new home for 100  orphans to live in a family-style environment. 
A total of four homes are under construction. Each home is managed by a “housemother” who cares for 10 to 12 preschool-age children. The Hess home is scheduled to open in August 2008. 
We also funded several education related 
projects including refurbishment of the Tizi 
Ouzou Kabylie Primary School, located in 
a poor mountain community. This project included the installation of a heating system and media room and the purchase of school supplies and equipment.
Azerbaijan
In 2004, Hess launched an Emergency 
Medical Development Initiative (EMDI), the first global development alliance project in Azerbaijan. Today, EMDI receives broad support from government bodies and private donors, including the USAID and oil and gas companies that are involved in projects within the country. In recent years, the $2.2 million program has helped improve emergency medical care services and policies, developed new outreach efforts focused on injury prevention and safety promotion, rehabilitated several  
hospitals to modern standards, and  secured the latest medical equipment. In 2007, Hess provided medical equipment  
to facilities in Evlakh, Shamkir and Kurdamir. 
Emergency response workshops were 
conducted at six regional hospitals involving 
more than 150 doctors and nurses. In  
addition, a new regional emergency  
response training center was established in Ganja. Those projects totaled $113,000, bringing the company’s three-year  
investment to $450,000.
Denmark
Hess Denmark formed a partnership with  
the Danish Society for Nature Conservation  
to sponsor the Danish Ponds and Lakes 
Project, which gives school children a hands-on understanding of the importance of taking care of the country’s aquatic  
environment. Each class adopts a local pond or lake and engages in discovery, monitoring and conservation activities.  The project will also be used within Hess’  
Denmark facilities to reinforce the  
importance of environmentally  
responsible behavior. Indonesia 
In Indonesia, the company made a three-
year commitment to improve the quality of 
education in the Ujung Pangkah sub-district 
by working with local officials to implement a new development model in primary and middle schools. The program reaches 400 students in more than 50 schools. So far, 27 school principals, 108 teachers and  
54 school committees have been trained.
Hess helped educate local fishermen, youth 
groups and women’s groups to gain the skills they need to be more effective small business owners, and supported healthcare volunteers in their efforts to provide quality health services for children, mothers and the elderly. The health program cared for more than 300 children.
Russia
When Hess employees in Russia learned 
that a children’s orphanage in the nearby village of Koshki was in need of essential items, they provided immediate assistance 
44COMMUNITY & SOCIAL PERFORMANCE
www.hess.com
Hess supported medical care in Khon Kaen, Thailandin the form of clothing, food and educational 
materials. They also helped with building maintenance and social activities. Sizable 
donations to hospitals in Pestravka and 
Glushitza have enabled staff to purchase equipment, hire qualified medical personnel and maintain the facilities.
Thailand
In Thailand, Hess worked with local 
experts in rural development to support 
73 village improvement projects including water storage and sanitation. Now in its second year, the $200,000 program has encouraged community ownership in the design, construction and maintenance of public facilities. The company also initiated a program to teach life skills, problem solving and interpersonal skills to build the capacity of disadvantaged children and youth in Udonthani and Khon Kaen.
United Kingdom
Employees in the U.K. have provided gen-
erous support matched by the company for Children 1st, a group that supports the Royal Scottish Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children and works to give every child in Scotland a safe and secure childhood. 
Aberdeen employees also participated in the 
North Sea Chaplaincy Trust, which provides financial relief to those in the oil and gas industry or their dependants who find them-selves with immediate financial problems. 
United States
In Houston, Hess employees have partnered 
with Habitat for Humanity and are building 126 homes for disadvantaged families in a 
new development 10 miles south of Houston. Habitat for Humanity projects have been making a real difference in the lives of  
Houston families for nearly 20 years. Hess has supported this program for several years and has made it a permanent element of its Social Responsibility Program.
Nearly 60 Hess employees and their  
family members in Woodbridge, N.J.,  and New York City joined with their  communities in two different Making Strides Against Breast Cancer Walks in October 2007. Hess participants raised funds for the American Cancer Society’s research, education, advocacy and patient service programs. 
Working through the U.S. Marine Toys for  
Tots Foundation, Hess donated its 2007 
Toy Trucks, a perennial holiday favorite,  to thousands of low-income children  along the U.S. Eastern Seaboard from 
Massachusetts to Florida. Hundreds  more were given to children near Hess  operations in St. Croix and St. Lucia,  and to the children of some New York  City police officers, including those who have died in the line of duty. 
With its sponsorship of the annual Arthur Ashe 
Kids Day , the kickoff event for the United States Open T ennis Championship in Queens, New York, Hess was once again able to include thousands of low-income children in the fun. In addition, employees at Hess Express Retail operations along the U.S. East Coast rallied with in-store promotions to raise funds for the March of Dimes and St. Jude’s Chil-dren’s Hospital.
45COMMUNITY & SOCIAL PERFORMANCE
Habitat for Humanity project near Houston, Texas46HOVENSA, ST. CROIX
In 2007, HOVENSA spent $3 million on social investment programs, with more 
than $2.2 million dedicated to education 
and $0.7 million dedicated to community projects. The Industrial Craft Training  
Program was established in 2007 by HOVENSA, a refining joint venture between Hess and Petroleos de Venezuela (PDVSA), in collaboration with the Virgin Islands 
Board of Vocational Education and the Virgin Islands Department of Education. Every year thirty local students – 10 per 
craft – will be offered technical courses at the St. Croix Career and Technical Education
 
Center while attending high
 
school to earn 
a nationally recognized certificate as an 
industrial electrician, instrument mechanic or millwright. In 2007, HOVENSA spent $1.5 million on the Craft Training Program 
and has made a commitment to annually place 20 graduates of the four-year program in jobs at the refinery. This program should provide an incentive for students to stay in 
school and help counter the high dropout rate of high school students in St. Croix. 
HOVENSA also funded numerous community 
projects including agricultural and student art fairs and charitable events sponsored by the Women’ s Coalition and the United Way. COMMUNITY & SOCIAL PERFORMANCE
We remain committed to improving the social well-being of the communities where we  
operate and continue to enhance our partnership activities with our host countries.
Classroom in Asonga Model School near Bata, Equatorial Guinea47Doña Pilar Bengobsam Ndong is a third year teacher at Asonga 
Model School in Bata, the Republic of Equatorial Guinea (EG). Six months ago, her school was, as she describes, simply “a house with 
walls.” There were no desks or educational materials, “only benches 
where children sat in twos and threes,” and teachers had limited 
knowledge and experience.
Today, she teaches in a renovated facility where classrooms have desks 
and chairs. Children sit around a table with six or seven other students, who each have their own workbooks, and the walls are filled with  
colorful learning aids.
Doña Pilar has seen quite a change at the school since it joined  
Prodege, a program established by Hess Corporation and the EG 
government to improve the country’s education system over the next 10 years. The partners are each investing $20 million in the first five years. They have engaged the Academy for Educational Development (AED),  
a Washington D.C.-based organization with extensive experience in  education and international development, to provide technical assistance.
“Prodege trained us in active learning teaching methods, lesson  
planning and involving parents and community members in the  
classroom,” she said during a recent interview. “This new approach  
is helping the students.”
Only one year into the program, the children are already making great 
progress. Little things like signing a daily attendance sheet are instilling greater responsibility in the classroom while the new seating arrangement is helping them learn from each other and work as part of a team. Doña Pilar says she sees an increase in literacy and cooperation among the older and younger children and that has given them confidence  to speak up in class and become more active. “Change is difficult,” she said, “but I am very optimistic and I feel that I am becoming a better teacher.”
“I know that in the long term Prodege will be very good for the  
students, especially for the younger ones who are just beginning school. In the long run, they will do very well and will be able to  reach the university,” she said.
Doña Pilar admits that the changes are difficult for some. And though 
her own life is full — she farms and sees to her family of five children and four grandchildren — she is confident and feels her hard work has paid off. “I see teachers becoming more accepting of the new 
program,” she said. “It continues to improve and is helping the chil-dren to learn.” 
In many ways, Doña Pilar is a role model for the future of Equatorial  
Guinea. Two of her children are studying at the Teacher Training 
College of the University of Equatorial Guinea, where she earned her degree. Her youngest child, who is in his last year of high school, hopes to study medicine.
Social Responsibility in Action: Prodege 
Doña Pilar and her class
Prodege Program Elements:
•  Active Learning Curriculum
•  Model Schools•  Accelerated Teacher Certification•  
 
Skills strengthening at the Ministry of Education
•  2 national quality teaching laboratories•  
 
1,200 teachers training in the new methodology
2007 Accomplishments
•  1,000 school directors trained•  National school census conducted•  School furniture procured locally•  2 schools refurbished and 3 underway•  
 
1,200 teachers enrolled in a diploma equivalency course
•  
 
Quality teaching laboratory built in Bata 48The UN Global Compact (UNGC) is an 
international initiative that brings together companies, UN agencies, labor organizations 
and civil society in support of 10 principles 
covering human rights, labor, the environment  
and corruption. The 10 principles are based on the Universal Declaration of  Human Rights; the International 
   
  Labour Organization’s Declaration of  
the Fundamental Principles and Rights  
at Work; and the Rio Declaration on  
Environment and Development. 
As a signatory of the Global Compact,  
we believe that our business policies are in  
accordance with the 10 principles. We partici-
pate in Global Compact meetings in the U.S.. 
    
 Here we provide an index to our performance 
in demonstrating the Global Compact’s  10 principles in our work. This index  
cross-references to relevant IPIECA/API 
and GRI G3 indicators. Further information is available throughout this report and on our website . 
    Glo B al c om P act Princi P les iPieca / a P i  i ndicators G ri  i ndicators r eport s ection Page 
1. 
 
Businesses should support and respect the  
protection of international proclaimed human  rights within their sphere of influence.SOC-1
SOC-4
 
HR1, HR2 Voluntary Commitments,
Supporting Human Rights6,1240-41
2. 
 
Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.HR1, HR2, HR3 Voluntary Commitments, Supporting Human Rights6,12 40-41
3.
 
 
 
Businesses should uphold the freedom  of association and the effective recognition  to the right to collective bargaining.SOC-7 HR5 Voluntary Commitments, Supporting Human Rights6,12 40
4. 
 
Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms 
of forced and compulsory labor.SOC-7 HR7 Voluntary Commitments,Supporting Human Rights6,12 40
5. 
   
Businesses should uphold the effective  abolition of child labor.SOC-6 HR1, LA4, LA5 Voluntary Commitments,Supporting Human Rights6,12 40 
6. 
 
Businesses should eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.SOC-4 HR1, LA13, LA14 Voluntary Commitments,Equal Employment Opportunity6,12 
39-41
7. 
 
Businesses should support a precautionary  
approach to environmental challenges.Environmental Performance,Global Climate Change,Environmental Stewardship and Biodiversity6,9,17
29-35
8. 
 
Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote 
greater environmental responsibility.ENV-1, ENV-2, ENV-3, ENV-5, ENV-9, ENV-A1, ENV-A2,ENV-A3, ENV-A4, ENV-A6, ENV-A7EN1-EN30 Environmental Performance, 
Global Climate Change, Air Emmisions, Oil Spills and Releases, Resource Use, Environmental Stewardship  and Biodiversity29-35
9. 
 
Businesses should encourage the development and 
diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.EN6,EN7 Global Climate Change, Renewable Energy, Environmental Stewardship and Biodiversity, Liquefied Natural Gas, Product Stewardship29-35
10. 
 
Businesses should work against all forms of corrup-tion, including extortion and bribery.SOC-2 SO2, SO3, SO4 Voluntary CommitmentsEthical Business Conduct, Transparency6,12-16
www.hess.comglOBA l C OMPAC tgRi iN d E x
This index refers to Global Reporting  
Initiative (GRI) indicators on which we  
have fully or partially reported.
 
 
 Some of the information regarding these 
indicators appears in the Web version of this report.
Disclosures and i ndicators G ri  i ndicators  Page
strate G y an D  a nalysis
1.1, 1.2 2-3, 9-15, 19-21
orG anizational Profile
2.1-2.10 1-5, 6-7, 9-14, 19-21
rePort Parameters
Report Profile 3.1-3.4  Scope, Inside Back Cover
Report Scope and Boundary
3.5-3.11
 
Scope, 26
GRI Content Index
3.12
 
49
Assurance
3.13
 
50
Governance, c ommitments an D  e n G a G ement
Governance 4.1-4.10 9-17
Commitments to External Initiatives
4.11-4.13
2-3, 6, 10, 12, 13, 14-15, 40-41
Stakeholder Engagement
4.14-4.17
 
9-13, 21
mana G ement aPP roach an D  Performance i n D icators
Economic Economic Performance EC1,  EC2, EC3,  EC4  2-3, 6-7, 19-21, 37-41, 43
Market Presence EC5, 
EC6, EC7
 
1, 4-5, 7, 10-11, 19-21
Indirect Economic Impacts
EC8,
 
EC9
 
21
Environmental Materials
EN1, EN2
 
7, 19, 20
Energy
EN3,EN4,
 
EN5, EN6, EN7
7, 31
Water
EN8,
 
EN9,
 
EN10
 7, 33
Biodiversity
EN11, EN12, EN13,
 
EN14,
 EN15
 
33-35
Emissions Effluent and Waste
EN16, EN17, EN18,
 EN19, 
EN20, EN21, EN22,
 
EN23, EN24,
 EN257, 32-33
Products and Services
EN26,
 EN27  
 
7, 35
Compliance
EN28
14-17
Transport
EN29
 
 
30-32
Overall - Environmental Expenditure
EN30
 
17
social
Labor Practices & Decent Work Employment LA1, LA2, LA3  6-7, 37-41
Labor/Management Relations
LA4, LA5
 
40-41
Occupational Health & Safety
LA6, LA7 ,
 
LA8,
 LA9
 
6-7, 23-27
Training and Education
LA10, LA11, LA12
 
6-7, 37-39
Diversity & Equal Opportunity
LA13, 
LA14
 
6-7, 39-40
Human Rights Investment & Procurement Practices HR1, HR2, 
HR3
21, 40
Non-discrimination
HR4
37-41
Freedom of Association & 
Collective Bargaining
HR5
40
Child Labor
HR6
40
Forced & Compulsory Labor
HR7
40
Security Practices
HR8
12, 41
Indigenous Rights HR9 12
Society Community
SO1
6-7, 43-47
Corruption
SO2,
 
SO3, SO4
12-15
Public Policy
SO5,
 
SO6
9-13
Anti-Competitive Behavior
SO7
13-14
Compliance
SO8
9, 13-17
Pro D uct r es P onsi B ility
Customer Health & Safety PR1, PR2 35
Product & Service Labeling
PR3,
 PR4, PR5 35
Marketing Communications PR6, PR7
Customer Privacy PR8
Compliance
PR9
15-17
Fully Reported,  Partially Reported,  Not Reported in 2007 49SCOPE  AN d O BJEC tiv ES  
ERM Certification & Verification Services (ERM CVS) was commis-
sioned by Hess Corporation to undertake verification of its 2007 Corporate Sustainability Report (the Report). The objective of the verification was to establish that the information presented is a reliable representation of Hess Corporation’s performance and programs, and that the data presented conform to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 and also the IPEICA/API  Reporting Framework guidelines.  
The Management of Hess Corporation is responsible for the information 
contained within the Report.
vERifi CA ti ON  A PPROACH
We based our work on Hess Corporation’s internal guidance and 
definitions for the reported metrics.  Our assurance approach was developed with reference to the International Standard for Assurance Engagements 3000: Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Information issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (ISAE 3000); as well as principles that ERM CVS has developed and refined for report assurance 
assessments.   Our work involved detailed challenge of the data 
through selected interrogation of both source and consolidated data information in conjunction with interviews with operational and corporate staff with responsibilities for data management and report content.  Substantiation of a sample of statements and claims made in the Report has been undertaken.  
Our activities included review of activities and source data at the 
following Hess operations: exploration and production operations in Phu Horm, Thailand; Erath, Louisiana, USA (Sea Robin Gas Plant); South Arne (North Sea Platform), Denmark; and marketing and refining operations at the Charleston Terminal in South Carolina and First Reserve Terminal in New Jersey, USA; and two representative Hess Express convenience stores in New Jersey, USA. The review also included visits to offices in Thailand, Denmark, Houston, Texas, and 
Woodbridge, New Jersey to assess and review data collection, data management and internal review processes.  
OPiN i ON  & R ECOMMEN d A ti ONS
In the opinion of ERM CVS, Hess Corporation has continued to 
improve the quality, breadth of information and overall presentation  
of the sustainability data and we are not aware of the exclusion of any material issues or of any misstatements made in relation to the information presented.  ERM CVS has evaluated the Report for conformance to GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and sup-ports Hess Corporation’s assertion that the Report meets the GRI 
application level B+. 
Our key observations build on those provided by ERM CVS previ-
ously and the work that Hess Corporation has accomplished this year and is committed to pursuing further.  These are to:  
• 
 
Continue to develop consistent and reliable methodologies and 
processes to capture data across all operations and support this with the provision of user guidance related to the data collection 
requirements.
• 
 
Include some discussion of key stakeholder views and concerns, and how the Company is responding to these inputs;
• 
 
For metrics that are currently not reported review the materiality of 
these periodically for the potential for future inclusion in the Report.
• 
 
Where relevant, the measurable targets Hess Corporation is pursu-ing in relation to its sustainability objectives should be considered for representation in the Report.  
• 
 
Consider adding a section on the key challenges that face Hess Corporation in relation to achieving the sustainability objectives in order to provide greater context.
A full report of the result of the verification activities has been pre-
sented to Hess Corporation.
OUR iN d EPEN d ENCE
ERM CVS, responsible for reporting to Hess Corporation on its as-
surance conclusions, is a member of the ERM Group.  This is the sixth year that ERM CVS has been engaged by Hess Corporation in this role.  The work that ERM CVS conducts for clients is solely related to independent assurance activities and training programmes related to auditing techniques and approaches. Our processes are designed to ensure that the work we undertake with clients is free 
from bias and conflict of interest.  ERM CVS staff that have undertak-
en work on this assurance exercise provide no consultancy related services to Hess Corporation in any respect.
Leigh Lloyd, Managing Director
5 June 2008
ERM Certification and Verification Services, London
www.ermcvs.comEmail: post@ermcvs.comvERifi CA ti ON
This report covers the principal facilities and assets operated 
by Hess Corporation and its subsidiaries during calendar year 2007. The format of this report follows the Global Reporting  Initiative (GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and also the joint International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association and the American Petroleum Institute’s Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Sustainability Reporting.
Environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & 
SR) metrics refer to gross figures from operated facilities. Data and information concerning contracted activities are included where contracts dictate that Hess has overall responsibility for those operations. With the exception of net equity greenhouse gas emissions this report does not include EHS & SR data on operations in which the company has an equity interest but which are operated by other companies. In order to make  
representative comparisons year on year we report many metrics as a normalized rate based on hours worked or on operated production and throughput.Hess has adopted the GRI Reporting Guidance for Boundary Setting for reporting data on joint venture companies where we have significant influence, but not direct operational control. These include the HOVENSA Refinery in the United States Virgin Islands and the Joint Development Area in Malaysia/Thailand. Data pertaining to these joint ventures is presented separately from Hess operated data. Data from our SonaHess joint venture are included in Hess totals to facilitate comparisons with previous years. For joint ventures, data gaps may exist where reporting practices and definitions were not fully aligned with Hess in 2007. We are working to address these data gaps. In addition, we are in the process of evaluating data collection for our recently acquired assets in Russia, which we have  designated as an asset in transition.
For copies of the data in tabular format referred to in this  
report, please visit our web based report.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
01 Our Company
02 Message From the Chairman
04 2007 Highlights
08 How We Operate
18 Review of Operations
22 Safety Performance28 Environmental Performance
36 Global Workforce
42 Community & Social Performance
48 Global Compact and GRI Indexes
50 Verification Statement Note: Following a review by ERMCVS, our external verifier, Hess is 
self-declaring a GRI Application level of B+ in conformance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.Report Application Levels2002
In Accordance C C + B B + A A +
Third
Party
CheckedSelf
Declared
Report Externally Assured
Report Externally Assured
Report Externally AssuredGRI
CheckedOptional Mandatory
2002
In Accordance C C + B B + A A +
Third
Party
CheckedSelf
Declared
Report Externally Assured
Report Externally Assured
Report Externally AssuredGRI
CheckedOptional MandatorySCOPE
OF REPORT
Cover: Second grade student at Hess supported school in Khon Kaen, Thailand Data available in web based reportSandy Alexander Inc., an ISO 14001:2004 certified printer with Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) Chain of Custody printed the  
Hess Annual Corporate Sustainability Report with the use of renewable wind power resulting in nearly zero volatileorganic compound (VOC) emissions. This report was printed on FSC-certified Mohawk Options paper, a process-chlorine-free 100 percent post-consumer waste (PCW) paper manufactured entirely with 100 percent certified wind energy and containing 100 percent post-consumer recycled fiber.
The savings below are achieved when PC recycled fiber is used in place of virgin fiber. 
 118.98 trees  preserved for the future
 343.57 lbs   waterborne waste not created
 50,541 gallons  wastewater flow saved
 5,592 lbs  solid waste not generated
 11,011 lbs  net greenhouse gases prevented
 84,279,200 BTUs  energy not consumed
Savings from the use of emission-free wind-generated electricity: 5,721 lbs  air emissions not generated
In other words your savings from the use of wind-generated electricity are equivalent to: Not driving  6,197 miles
 Planting  387 treesOPINION & RECOmmENdATIONS
For copies of our Environment, Health and Safety Policy and 
our Corporate Social Responsibility Policy, or for more information  regarding our operations, please visit our Web site at www.hess.com. 
We invite your questions, comments and suggestions regarding this 
report. T o send us your questions or comments, or request more information or additional copies of this report, please contact:
Vice President, 
Environment, Health and SafetyHess Corporation1185 Avenue of the AmericasNew York, NY 10036You can also send us an e-mail at ehs@hess.com.
Cert n o.  S W -COC-1576 2007 CORPORATE  
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
2007 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
1185 Avenue of the Americas
New York, NY 10036
www.hess.com