2004 ReportEnvironment, 
Health, Safety and Social ResponsibilityThis report covers the principal facilities and assets operated by
Amerada Hess Corporation and its subsidiaries. Information fromHOVENSA, our 50% owned refining joint venture, is not includedin this report. Information and data pertaining to HOVENSA isavailable in our web-based report at www.hess.com. 
This report does not include data on oil and gas fields or 
marketing sites in which we have an equity interest but whichare operated by other companies. Emission data and other environmental metrics refer to gross figures from operated facilities. Company baselines used for assessing performanceagainst targets have been adjusted to reflect material changesfrom acquisitions or divestitures. For copies of the data referredto in this report in tabular format, please visit our web-basedreport at www.hess.com.Amerada Hess Corporation and its subsidiaries explore for,
produce, purchase, transport and sell crude oil and natural gas.These exploration and production activities take place in theUnited States, United Kingdom, Norway, Denmark, EquatorialGuinea, Algeria, Gabon, Indonesia, Thailand, Azerbaijan,Malaysia and other countries. 
The Corporation also manufactures, purchases, trades and 
markets refined petroleum and other energy products. TheCorporation owns 50% of the HOVENSA refinery joint venturein the United States Virgin Islands. In addition, the Corporationowns and operates a fluid catalytic cracking facility in PortReading, New Jersey. Substantially all of Port Reading’s production is gasoline and heating oil. The Corporation marketsrefined petroleum products on the East Coast of the UnitedStates to the motoring public, wholesale distributors, industrialand commercial users, other petroleum companies, governmentalagencies and public utilities. It also markets natural gas to utilities and other industrial and commercial customers. TheCorporation’s energy marketing activities include the sale ofelectricity. The Corporation has a 50% voting interest in a consoli-dated partnership that trades energy commodities and derivatives.The Corporation also takes trading positions for its own account.In early 2004, a 50% owned joint venture acquired a chain of
gasoline stations, adding approximately 50 HESS
® retail outlets.
Most of the Corporation’s gasoline stations are in New York,New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Florida, Massachusetts and Northand South Carolina. The Corporation owns approximately 50% of the properties on which the stations are located. The Corporation has 22 terminals with an aggregate storagecapacity of 21 million barrels in its East Coast marketing areas.
In June 2004, the Corporation formed a 50% owned joint 
venture, Hess LNG, which will pursue investments in liquefiednatural gas (LNG) terminals and related supply, trading andmarketing opportunities. The joint venture is pursuing developmentof an LNG terminal project located in Fall River, Massachusetts.
The Corporation has a wholly-owned subsidiary that provides
distributed electricity generating equipment to industrial and commercial customers as an alternative to purchasingelectricity from local utilities. The Corporation also has investedin long-term technology to develop fuel cells through a venture
with other parties.Our Company
Contents Scope of Report
Cover:  Drilling operations—Algeria1 Management Letter
2 Management of Environment, Health, 
Safety and Social Responsibility 
4 Health, Safety and 
Environmental Performance
10 Social Responsibility
13 Alternative Energy
14 Verification Statement
Glossary — A glossary of terms used in this report
is available in our web-based report atwww.hess.com.2004 Operating Statistics can be found on the inside back cover.1We made significant progress in 2004 in building a portfolio
of assets that will provide both long-term profitable growthfor our Company and sustainable benefits to the communitieswhere we do business. 
During 2004 and early 2005 our Company contributed
over four million dollars to education, healthcare and disasterrelief efforts. This included two million dollars to aid reliefefforts resulting from the devastating tsunami in SoutheastAsia. We remain committed to meeting the highest standardsof corporate citizenship and are proud to be the first UnitedStates oil and gas company to voluntarily endorse theUnited Nations Global Compact, which addresses humanrights, labor, environment and transparency issues worldwide.
Our safety performance for 2004 was maintained at the
same level as in 2003, which was the best in our Company’shistory. We are strongly committed to further improvement inthis critical area and are developing additional programs to
meet our promise of providing a safe and healthy workplacefor our employees, contractors and neighbors.
We are pleased to report that we successfully met our emissions
goals for reducing significant air pollutants. Although wedid not meet our interim target to reduce greenhouse gasemissions, we have developed a solid reporting protocol andmethodology which allows for more precise measurement,management and control of these emissions.
As a leading global independent energy company our goal 
is to help provide the world with affordable energy in an environmentally and socially responsible manner. We believe that the actions we are taking, as reflected inthis, our eighth annual report on Environment, Health,Safety and Social Responsibility, will create social benefitsand business value for our stakeholders. We welcome yourcomments and suggestions.
JOHN B. HESS
Chairman of the Board and  Chief Executive Officer
MANAGEMENT LETTER
GERALD I. BRESNICK, PH.D.
Vice President,
Environment, Health and SafetyJ. BARCLAY COLLINS
Executive Vice President and 
General Counsel 2 Drilling operations—Thailand3GOVERNANCE 
The Company has implemented a values-based, socially-responsible strategy
focused on improving environment, health and safety (EHS) performanceand making a positive impact on communities. The strategy is supportedby the Company’s environment, health, safety and social responsibilitypolicies and by management systems that help protect the Corporation’sworkforce, customers and local communities. These policies can be foundin our web-based report at www.hess.com. The Company’s managementsystems are based on international standards and are intended to promote internal consistency, adherence to policy objectives and continualimprovement in EHS performance. 
The Hess Leadership Team, consisting of the top executive officers of
Amerada Hess, provides direction and support in establishing performanceexpectations and holding business units accountable for their performance.Our performance in these areas is also reviewed routinely with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. Our business leaders are ultimately responsible for incorporating EHS and social responsibility (SR)expectations into their business activities and providing adequate resourcesand mechanisms to meet performance objectives. A chart showing ourEHS organization is presented in our web-based report at www.hess.com.While overall governance is the responsibility of senior management, theCorporation has programs in place to evaluate regulatory compliance, auditfacilities, train employees and to generally meet corporate EHS&SR goals.EHS metrics are an integral part of each employee’s compensation package.
We will continue to use this report as a forum to report on our progress.
We believe that these actions are helping us to create value for our stakeholders and for our Company and are instrumental in helping us to
achieve a leadership position within our industry. A summary of our objectives
and performance is included on the following pages.“… the actions we 
are taking will createsocial benefits andbusiness value for our stakeholders.”MANAGEMENT OF ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH, 
SAFETY AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITYPort Reading refining facility—New Jersey 45HEALTH AND SAFETY 
At Amerada Hess, our aim is to create a working environment where
employees, contractors and the public are not exposed to health and safetyhazards. We employ safe systems of work, conduct regular inspections ofour facilities and have well-developed incident reporting and emergencyresponse systems. We emphasize training and competency within ourworkforce and promote communication on safety through regular safetymeetings, work permitting processes and internal reporting. All new company and contract personnel are subject to mandatory safety orientationprior to commencing work. Our safety programs are audited regularly.
While in 2003 we achieved our best safety performance ever, we were not
able to improve upon that again in 2004. Our safety performance remainedessentially unchanged between 2003 and 2004. There was a slight increasein both our recordable incident rate and our lost time or restricted duty ratebetween 2003 and 2004.
Our Chairman’s Award for Safety Excellence program continued in 2004.
The program is intended to underscore that exemplary health and safetyperformance is important to Amerada Hess and is an integral part of beingthe leading global independent energy company. The program recognizesindividuals, teams, facilities and operations for: 
•Outstanding health and safety performance, whether it be on an
absolute basis or improvement; 
•Innovative ideas, programs, practices and management systems; 
•Activities that enhance our leadership position and image; and 
•Activities and initiatives that promote teamwork and team spirit 
in protecting employees, contractors and communities. 
The SonaHess Gassi El Agreb operations in Algeria were selected as the
2004 recipient of the Chairman’s Award for Safety Excellence as a result oftheir impressive safety improvement, their use of multiple improvementprocesses and their establishment of a sustainable safety culture. 3.0
2.52.01.5
1.0
0.5
0
01 02 03 04
AHC OSHA RECORDABLE 
WORKPLACE INJURY RATE PERFORMANCE# cases per 100 employees
2.5
2.01.51.00.5
0
01 02 03 04
AHC LOST WORK TIME & 
RESTRICTED DUTY INCIDENTRATE PERFORMANCE# cases per 100 employeesHEALTH, SAFETY AND 
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE66ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 
We recognize that our operations will impact the environment. We manage
these impacts within our business as identified by both our environmentalmanagement systems and by our key stakeholders. The reporting metricsdiscussed herein present our performance related to these metrics over time, andin relation to our performance targets in the pursuit of continuous improvement.
GLOBAL CLIMATE CHANGE 
The Corporation shares the worldwide concern about the environmental andsocial impact of air emissions. On a global scale, climate change is an issuethat has prompted much public debate and has a potential impact on future
economic growth and development. 
Within our operations, there are two major sources of greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions; combustion of hydrocarbon fuels for power generation and flaring
of associated gas. Minor sources include fugitive emissions from equipment
such as flanges and valves, venting emissions from storage vessels, and emissions from loading and unloading operations.
The Corporation has undertaken a program to assess, monitor and reduce
the emission of GHG, including carbon dioxide and methane. The challengesassociated with this program are significant, not only from the standpoint oftechnical feasibility, but also from the perspective of adequately measuringthe Corporation’s entire GHG inventory. We recognize that there is a need
to improve our reporting. In 2004 we made significant progress in thedevelopment of our GHG Reporting Protocol and standardized reportingmethodology.
We have set a companywide target of reducing our normalized greenhouse
gas emissions by 5% by 2005 compared to 2001. Despite an 8% reductionin normalized emissions compared to 2003, our 2004 GHG emissionsincreased by 3% in comparison to our 2001 baseline. The increase in 2004is largely attributed to changes in our asset base compared to previous years.Reductions were achieved through efficiency gains in Algeria and in United States Exploration and Production activities. 
Our absolute GHG emissions increased by around 14%, from 4.9 million tons
in 2001 to 5.6 million tons in 2004. This is largely attributable to the inclusionof sources not previously quantified such as emissions from drilling rigs. 8,000,000
6,000,0004,000,000
2,000,000
0
01 02 03 04
AHC GREENHOUSE GAS
(CO2 EQUIVALENT) EMISSIONS
       GHG (CO 2 Eqv.) (US Tons)
       GHG (CO 2 Eqv.) (US Tons/1000 bbls)
       GHG (CO 2 Eqv.) (US Tons)
GHG (CO 2 Eqv.) (US Tons/1000 bbls)14.2
14.013.813.013.413.213.012.812.612.412.2
12
20,000
16,00012,000
8,000
4,000
0
01 02 03 04
AHC NOX EMISSIONS
       NOx (US Tons)
       NOx (US lbs/1000 bbls)NOx (US Tons)
NOx (US lbs/1000 bbls)90
8070
60
507As we expand our operations our absolute atmospheric emissions will
increase and we are evaluating options to sustain or reduce our overall emissions footprint. For example, our North Dakota Operations are participating in the Plains CO
2Reduction Partnership, assessing the 
technical and economic feasibility of capturing and storing CO2emissions
from stationary sources in the northern Great Plains and adjacent areas. 
ACIDIFICATION AND SMOG 
Acidification occurs when certain gases, mainly the oxides of sulfur (SOx)and nitrogen (NOx), are emitted to the atmosphere and react to enhancethe natural acidity of precipitation. This precipitation, commonly termed“acid rain,” can impact animals, plants, water bodies, and man-made structures. Smog, or ground level ozone, is formed by complex chemicalreactions between Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) and NOx in sunlight. The build-up of ground level ozone can have human healtheffects, cause damage to vegetation, and cause poor visibility.
As with greenhouse gases, the predominant source of SOx and NOx from
our operations are power generation and flaring. Major sources of VOCemissions are flaring and hydrocarbon loading operations.
We have a target of reducing our normalized NOx, SOx and VOC 
emissions by 5% by 2005 compared to 2001. We made further progress in2004 reducing our company-wide NOx emissions by 21%, SOx emissionsby 32% and VOC emissions by 7%. These reductions have been heavilyinfluenced by changes to our asset base. 
AQUEOUS IMPACTS 
Our operations have the potential to impact water resources. Offshore, we undertake a number of activities that can affect the marine environment,such as the discharge of oil and chemicals in produced water or the use ofseawater for re-injection. Similarly, onshore operations may result in discharges to surface waters and also have the potential to effect ground waterresources. We understand these impacts and have established metrics tohelp us monitor and improve our performance and controls to minimizethese issues.
76,000
5,0004,0003,0002,0001,000
0
01 02 03 04
AHC SO 2 EMISSIONS
       SO2 (US Tons)
       SO 2 (US lbs/1000 bbls)
       SO2 (US Tons)
SO2 (US lbs/1000 bbls)30
26221814
10
60,000
50,00040,00030,00020,00010,000
0
01 02 03 04
AHC VOC EMISSIONS
       VOC (US Tons)
        VOC (US lbs/1000 bbls)       VOC (US Tons)
VOC (US lbs/1000 bbls)210
200
190
1808OIL SPILLS: Our goal is to have no spills. However, oil spills and releases to
the environment do occur accidentally. We track our company-wide spillperformance in order to identify common causes and to plan mitigation measures accordingly.
In 2004, we had 192 spills which totaled 313 barrels of oil. Although the
overall number of spills increased slightly from 2003, the overall volume ofoil decreased significantly. Customer related spills at retail stations accountfor a significant number (39%) of spill incidents, while spills at onshoreproduction locations in the United States accounted for the greatest vol-ume (55%) of oil spilt. All spills were promptly addressed and the vastmajority of spilled material was recovered and properly disposed of.
CONTROLLED DISCHARGES: In the United States our good performance
under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System continued.Compliance dropped slightly from 99.76% in 2003 to 99.53% in 2004. Atthe Port Reading facility, we continued our excellent discharge performance, with concentrations of all waste water discharges substantiallybelow permitted levels.
The volume of oil discharged in produced water at offshore facilities
decreased significantly from 2,461 barrels (bbls) in 2003 to 1,985 bbls in2004. However, the quantity of water discharged also decreased and consequently the oil in water concentration increased slightly from 15 partsper million (ppm) in 2002 and 2003 to 16 ppm in 2004. This is well belowthe generally accepted regulatory limits of 30-40ppm.
In 2004, our overall volume of drilling mud and cuttings discharged
decreased significantly. The amount of oil discharged with the cuttingsdecreased from 247 tons in 2003 to 101 tons in 2004. 
RESOURCE USE 
While adhering to modern engineering standards, decisions regarding materials ultimately impact natural resources. We consider material selection,reuse and recycling during all phases of engineering and operations.2,800
2,2401,6801,120
560
0
01 02 03 04
AHC NUMBER &
VOLUME OF OIL SPILLS
       Volume of Oil Spills (bbls)
        Number of Oil Spills (#)       Volume of Oil Spills (bbls)
Number of Oil Spills (#)210
205200195190185180175170165
3,500
3,0002,5002,0001,5001,000
500
0
01 02 03 04
OIL IN PRODUCED WATER 
DISCHARGES TO SEA
       Oil Volume in Produced Water (bbls)
       Oil Concentration in 
       Produced Water (ppmV)      Oil Volume in Produced Water (bbls)
Oil Concentration in 
Produced Water (ppmV)24
22201816141210Case Study: 
GABON
AHC recognized the existence of
numerous species of cetaceans inthe Gulf of Guinea, includinghumpback whales and the Atlantichumpback dolphin. Research indicated that the Gabon coastalareas is a particularly importantarea for whale breeding and calving, specifically during Julyand August. In an effort to minimize or avoid potential impactto these species during seismicevaluation, Amerada Hess put inplace a detailed monitoring andcontrol plan that involved workingwith the Wildlife ConservationSociety and GardineEnvironmental Ltd. More detailsare provided at www.hess.com.
9WASTE: The overall quantity of waste generated increased from 51,890 tons
in 2003 to 90,708 in 2004. Waste disposal from remediation projects inthe Permian Basin and improvements to Algeria’s waste monitoring procedures had the most significant impact on overall totals in 2004. 
From a total of 90,708 tons of waste generated in 2004, about 81% was 
recycled. The remaining 16,772 tons were disposed of by landfill, landfarm and incineration. In 2004, approximately 0.3% of waste generated (287 tons)was categorized as hazardous. 
EXCEEDANCES AND ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS
Company policy has long stressed our fundamental commitment to complywith applicable environment, health and safety laws and regulations.Although 100% compliance is an operational goal, exceedances of permittedlevels can occur, as do citations from regulatory authorities. The amount offines paid in 2004 were reduced by 31% compared to 2003.
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP AND BIODVERSITY
The Company’s operations are managed to avoid or minimize impacts onthe environment. As a global organization we face the challenge of conducting operations in many geographic areas with sensitive or uniquebiological characteristics. Our systematic approach to environmental management and our commitment to understanding the human and natural ecosystems in which we work provide us with a framework to meetthese challenges effectively. This includes undertaking environmental baseline surveys and environmental impact assessments prior to the start ofour operations, the introduction of appropriate operational controls andon-going monitoring during operations.
Our commitment to environmental stewardship extends beyond our 
operations to include decommissioning and remediation activities.Decommissioning activities may include plugging old oil and gas wells anddismantling both surface equipment and offshore platforms. Sites whereremediation may be necessary include gasoline stations, terminals, onshoreexploration and production facilities and refineries. Details of our estimatedliabilities and existing reserves can be found in our Annual Report at www.hess.com.10 Equatorial Guinea11HUMAN RIGHTS 
Our commitment to human rights is evident in our Social Responsibility
Policy, which states that Amerada Hess accepts and upholds the principlescontained in the United Nations (UN) Declaration of Human Rights. TheDeclaration was established in 1948 by the UN General Assembly and continues to serve as an international standard and as a codification ofhuman rights norms. 
We endorse the United States (U.S.) State Department’s Voluntary
Principles on Security and Human Rights, a voluntary guide for companiesto assure the safety and security of their operations while respecting humanrights and fundamental freedoms. It covers issues such as the potential forviolence, conflict analysis, equipment transfers, security arrangements,responses to human rights abuses, and interactions between companies andprivate security forces.
We are proud to be the first U.S. oil and gas signatory to the UN Global
Compact, an international voluntary agreement which addresses the privatesector’s role in human rights, labor, the environment and transparency.
Looking forward, our objective is to build on these commitments in 
partnership with all of our operating businesses, to continue to make a lasting positive impact wherever we work.
COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT 
During 2004 we convened a Social Responsibility Working Group to helpinstitutionalize social investment planning. We also established a system for tracking and reporting company-wide social investments, activities andkey learnings. During 2004 and early 2005, we contributed more than four million dollars to education, health and relief programs throughoutour operations. 
As our asset portfolio was significantly reshaped over the last several years
so too was our focus on community involvement. We have gone beyondour long standing support of education and health projects in the U.S. andin Europe and made significant progress in developing social programs inEquatorial Guinea, Algeria, Gabon, Indonesia, Thailand and Azerbaijan. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
“… our goal is to 
provide sustainable benefits to the communities where we do business”12DISASTER RELIEF
TSUNAMI IN SOUTHEAST ASIA: We were deeply saddened by the tragic loss of
life caused by the tsunami in late 2004. We immediately responded withlocal contributions in Indonesia, Thailand and Malaysia.
As the massive destruction became more apparent in the following days, we
contributed $2 million to assist the disaster relief efforts in Indonesia andin Thailand. Of the $2 million, $1 million was contributed to Save theChildren for their invaluable work in Indonesia and $1 million to theRachaprachanukroach Foundation, under the Royal patronage of the King,for their support of children in Thailand impacted by the tragedy. In addition, a further $200,000 was raised through a company matchedemployee donations program and by donations from our operations in thedirectly affected countries.
HURRICANES IN FLORIDA: In the wake of Hurricanes Charley and Frances,
the company donated diesel fuel and gasoline for government emergencyresponse vehicles to keep the relief efforts moving around the clock. Inaddition, Hess Express stores donated drinks, sandwiches, grills, coolersand backpacks to local food banks so that they could care for those lefthomeless.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 
Local community expectations were an essential part of our SocialResponsibility programs during 2004. For example, we solicited extensivestakeholder feedback for our Ujung Pangkah gas development in Indonesiaand for our Phu Horm gas development in Thailand to build local capacityand to allow impacted communities to choose their desired pipeline route.  
EMPLOYEES
Amerada Hess Corporation is committed to equal employment opportunity.This philosophy is demonstrated through affirmative action programs thatencompass every facility and employee.
Our efforts have been recognized over the last two years by a number of
respected organizations. Readers of Woman Engineer Magazine rated Hessone of the top 50 private-sector employers. Subscribers to Careers and theDisabled Magazine recognized us as one of the top 50 employers for people with disabilities. Diversity Inc. Magazine also singled us out as one
of 20 Noteworthy Companies.Case Study:
AZERBAIJAN
In Azerbaijan, we partnered with
the International Medical Corpsand Azeri health Authorities todevelop the Emergency MedicineDevelopment Initiative (EMDI).
The EMDI will bring modern
emergency medical services to North-West Azerbaijan through the implementation of a comprehensive emergency medicine program centered atGanja Hospital No. 3.
It is estimated that as many as 
1.3 million people will benefitfrom the EMDI. Our involvementreflects our commitment to building partnerships and to along term business relationship in Azerbaijan. The project is further described on our websiteat www.hess.com.13ALTERNATIVE ENERGY 
Through its investment in Nuvera Fuel Cells, Inc., Amerada Hess is
preparing for the future when the evolving energy mix will include newsources and end use technologies. The long term goal is a transportationmarket utilizing fuel processors and fuel cell stacks that will provide ameaningful reduction in greenhouse emissions. Nuvera is also pursuingnear term opportunities including industrial vehicles and the recovery ofhydrogen from chlor-alkali plants. Starting in 2007, each chlor-alkali plantinstallation will reduce CO
2emissions by over 9,000 tons per year, or the
equivalent output of 5,000 light duty vehicles.
ENERGY EFFICIENCY 
Hess is supporting the development of energy efficient technologiesthrough our Hess Microgen subsidiary. Hess Microgen cogeneration unitsgenerate both electrical and thermal power from the same energy source.The cogeneration units are more efficient than central power stations andsubject to lower transmission losses resulting in a greater percentage of fuelconversion into usable energy. In addition to natural gas fueled units, systems have been developed to run on methane derived from livestockfacilities such as dairy farms. In regards to air emissions, the units are capableof meeting some of the lowest emission standards in the world.
Amerada Hess is also involved in a study with the University of North
Dakota, Energy and Environmental Research Center, the U.S. Departmentof Energy, the North Dakota Division of Community Services, andInterstate Power Systems (a distributor for Capstone Turbine Corporation)to determine the economic viability of distributed generation from microturbines fueled with well-field sour gas. “… estimates are 
that in 15 years the world will require 30% moreenergy than is produced today.”ALTERNATIVE ENERGY14VERIFICATION OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE
ERM Certification & Verification Services (ERM CVS) was commissionedby Amerada Hess Corporation (AHC) to undertake verification of its2004 Environment, Health, Safety and Social Responsibility Report (the Report). This is the third year that ERM CVS has been engaged byAHC in this role. The objective of the verification was to establish that theinformation presented is a reliable representation of AHC’s performanceand programs during 2004.
The verification scope included both data and representations made by
AHC in the 2004 Report and relevant linked information provided by thecompany at their web site. Verification of information pertaining toHovensa, a refining joint venture has not been included in the scope of ouractivities. The Management of AHC is responsible for the informationcontained within the Report.
VERIFICATION APPROACH
ERM CVS verification procedures and methodologies have been developedwith due regard to the requirements of international standards governingenvironmental management systems, and general principles of auditing.Our verification approach involves detailed challenge of the contents ofthe report, random chain of custody audits for data, selected interrogationof both source and consolidated data, and interviews with corporate andoperational staff with responsibilities for data management and reportcontent. Substantiation of a sample of statements and claims made in theReport has been undertaken and evidence sought where deemed appropriate.
Our activities included interrogation of source data at the following
Amerada Hess operations: Permian Basin Operations, the Seminole GasPlant and data collection and data management for Exploration andProduction data at the Houston AHC Office, and the Port ReadingRefinery. In addition consolidated data practices were interrogated atAHC Head Office, including data associated with Retail and Marketingactivities. Business level and Group level data collection tools and processeswere reviewed for accuracy, explanation of trends and claims related to thereported data, and included checks on selected source data submissionsand methods of internal review. OPINION & RECOMMENDATIONS
In the opinion of ERM CVS, and based on the sample of data reviewed,the 2004 environment, safety and health data are provided with a reasonablelevel of reliability and we are not aware of the exclusion of any materialissues. The assertions, claims and statements made by AHC are supportedby evidence obtained during the verification process and we are not aware ofany misstatements made. Where ERM CVS uncovered errors in data we haveconfirmed that these errors have been corrected by AHC. The CorporateEHS team at AHC introduced significant changes to reporting structuresin 2003 and these have proven effective in increasing the understanding ofreporting requirements and thus reducing the potential for errors arisingfrom misinterpretation. Internal processes for data checking by AHC business units has improved as a result of increased ownership of data andpractices designed to check data submissions and sources. 
ERM CVS has provided a recommendations report to AHC linking trends
in our findings to root causes associated with internal processes. Our keyrecommendations to AHC build on those provided by ERM CVS previouslyand the work that AHC has accomplished this year and is committed topursuing further. These are as follows:
• The planned implementation of the protocol now developed by
AHC for collection of consistent and comparable data related togreenhouse gas emissions.
• The development of processes to enhance capture and thus review
significant data fluctuations year on year for internal assurance purposes.
• Efforts to improve understanding of corporate requirements associated
with the definition of contractor hours in order that incident ratesreported are consistent and comparable across the Company.
• The reporting of information on contractor EHS data relevant to
AHC’s operations in future reports.
• Continuation of efforts to understand stakeholder concerns and to
ensure programmes and practices are in place within AHC to identify,react to and evaluate these both at an Operational level and globally.
• Continuation of efforts to develop reportable social responsibility
metrics that demonstrate AHC commitments in this area and aidmanagement in future strategic and local planning.Verification Statement from ERM CVS
 
ERM Certification and Verification Services
London, July 2005For copies of our Environment, Health and Safety Policy and our
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy, or for more informationregarding our operations, please visit our website at www.hess.com. 
We invite your questions, comments and suggestions regarding
this report. To send us your questions or comments, or requestmore information or additional copies of this report, please contact:
Assistant Corporate Secretary
Amerada Hess Corporation1185 Avenue of the AmericasNew York, NY 10036
You can also send us an e-mail at ehs@hess.com.The Mohawk recycled paper used in this report is FSC-
certified and contains 100 percent post-consumer waste.This product is made with windpower and is Green Seal certified. It is acid free.
Design: 
Inc Design, www.incdesign.com2004 Operating Statistics
At December 31, 2004, the Corporation had 646 million barrels of proved crude oil and natural gas liquids reserves.
Proved natural gas reserves were 2,400 million Mcf at December 31, 2004. Our average number of employees in 2004 was 11,119. 
PRODUCTION & THROUGHPUT 2004 2003
EXPLORATION Net Crude Oil and NGL Production (‘000 bbls/day) 246 259
& PRODUCTION Gross Crude Oil and NGL Production from operated fields bbls/day(a)281 320
Net Natural Gas Production Mcf/day 575 683
Gross Natural Gas Production from operated fields Mcf/day 1,164 1,258
Total Net Barrels of Oil Equivalent Production (‘000 bbls/day) 342 373
REFINING Port Reading facility production rate 000 bbls/day 52 54
& MARKETING Gross HOVENSA refinery production rate ‘000 bbls/day(a)484 440
Retail / Terminals throughput Values ‘000 bbls/day(a)442 441
Retail Outlets Year-end(b)1,254 1,196
Net Refined Products Sold ‘000 bbls/day 428 419
(a)Gross operated production and throughput figures are used for data normalization for consistency with reported emissions.
(b)Approximately 67% are company operated.
Additional operating and financial data are available in our 2004 Annual Report at www.hess.com. 
For More Information1185 AVENUE OF THE AMERICAS
NEW YORK, NY 10036www.hess.com