2017 Sustainability Report
2017 Sustainability Report■ INTEGRITY : We are committed to the highest level of
integrity in all our relationships.
■ PEOPLE:  We are committed to attracting, retaining and
energizing the best people by investing in their professional
development and providing them with challenging andrewarding opportunities for personal growth.
■ PERFORMANCE:  We are committed to a culture of
performance that demands and rewards outstanding resultsthroughout our business.
■ VALUE CREATION: We are committed to creating
shareholder value based on sustained financial performanceand long-term profitable growth.
■ SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY : We are committed to meeting
the highest standards of corporate citizenship by protectingthe health and safety of our employees, safeguarding theenvironment and creating a long-lasting, positive impact on thecommunities where we do business.
■ INDEPENDENT SPIRIT : We are committed to preserving
the special qualities and unique personality that have madeus a successful independent enterprise.Hess Values set the framework and establish the ethical 
standards by which we conduct our business.
Integrity
People Performance
Value
CreationSocial
Responsibility
Independent
Spirit
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) IN ACCORDANCE OPTION
This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards:  
Core option. Our declaration of conformance with the GRI Standards has  
been reviewed and confirmed by our external verifier, ERM Certification and 
Verification Services. See the assurance statement on page 54.REPORTING STANDARDS AND ASSURANCE
INDEX OF REPORTING INDICATORSUNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 
COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS
This is our Communication on Progress in implementing the 
principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We welcome feedback on its contents.
An index of our sustainability reporting indicators, including those from the GRI Standards, with cross reference to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and IPIECA (the global oil and gas industry organization for environmental and social issues) sector-specific guidelines, can be found at  
hess.com/gri-index.  The index includes all indicators required for a GRI 
Standards Core report, as well as a number of additional indicators for which  
we are able to provide supporting information. HESS VALUES
ON THE COVER
Offshore Operations, Gulf of Thailand
1 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT2
MESSAGE FROM THE CEO
Our CEO’s view on building  
a sustainable enterprise
4
ABOUT HESS
Our company operations in brief
5
APPROACH TO REPORTING
A description of our materiality assessment, reporting framework  and boundaries 
6
PROGRESS AND GOALS
A snapshot of our progress  and path forward11
HOW WE OPERATE
The values that define our expectations for sustainable management and performance37
CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY
Balancing the world’s growing energy needs with our cost-effective greenhouse  gas emissions reduction policy
47
ENVIRONMENT
Responsible management  of our environmental footprint17
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
A review of social responsibility  as our way of doing business
25
SAFETY AND HEALTH
Aiming to get everyone, everywhere,  every day, home safe52 PERFORMANCE DATA
54  INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE 
STATEMENT
55 AWARDS AND RECOGNITION
55 MEMBERSHIPS AND    ASSOCIATIONS
33
OUR PEOPLE
Creating a company culture and  
high-quality workforce that innovates, leads and learns
37 33 11TABLE OF CONTENTS2Hess is committed to helping meet the world’s growing energy 
needs in a safe, environmentally responsible, socially sensitive and profitable way that delivers long-term value and superior financial returns to shareholders. As part of this commitment, we successfully completed an ambitious asset sales program in 2017 to high grade and focus our portfolio by investing in our highest return assets — Guyana, which is one of the industry’s largest oil discoveries in a decade, and the Bakken, our largest operated asset where we have more than 500,000 net acres in the core of the play — and by divesting higher cost, mature assets. In Guyana, we continued our extraordinary exploration success on the Stabroek Block with five world-class discoveries in 2017. The Liza Phase 1 development, which was sanctioned in June 2017 , will have the gross capacity to produce approximately 120,000 barrels of oil per day, with first production expected in March 2020. The second phase of the Liza development is expected to start up by mid-2022, closely followed by a third phase of development that is expected to bring gross production to more than 500,000 barrels of oil per day. In the Bakken, we continued to drive down drilling and completion costs and increase well productivity. Through the application of geosteering, optimized spacing, higher stage counts and proppant loading, we have increased Bakken well productivity by approximately  50 percent over the last two years. In terms of developments, we safely completed the North Malay Basin full field development in Malaysia in 2017 and advanced the Stampede development in the Gulf of Mexico, which achieved first oil in January 2018.
These achievements support our strategy to grow our resource 
base in a capital disciplined manner, move down the cost curve so we are resilient in a low oil price environment and be cash generative at a $50 per barrel Brent oil price post-2020. Our strategy reflects our view that shale alone will not be enough to meet the world’s oil demand growth and offset global base production declines. For the past several years the industry has significantly underinvested in conventional projects, which currently represent approximately 95 percent of global oil supply. 
Sustainability practices are an integral part of our strategy 
and operations because we believe they create value for our shareholders and opportunities to improve business performance. Sustainability issues are therefore examined by 
our Board of Directors and taken into account in formulating our company strategy. Our Board is climate change literate and evaluates various sustainability risks and global scenarios, including some of the most ambitious greenhouse gas reduction scenarios from the International Energy Agency, in making strategic decisions. The Board’s Compensation Committee also has tied executive compensation to advancing the environmental, health and safety goals of the company. 
Our 2017 Sustainability Report shows how we are addressing 
sustainability issues and integrating sustainable business practices into our strategy and goals. Hess’ environment, health, safety and social responsibility strategy is focused on several key areas for our operations, including process safety, social responsibility and climate change, which are described below. Detailed information on our programs and performance is provided in this report and on our company website at hess.com.
SAFETY
Our company’s top priority is the safety of our workforce and the communities in which we operate. We work closely with our employees and contractors to promote a strong safety culture, 
with the ultimate goal of everyone, everywhere, every day, 
home safe. As a result, we reduced both our 2017 workforce recordable incident rate and lost time incident rate by 38 percent compared with 2016, with improvements in both employee and contractor performance. While our overall safety performance was positive, our severe safety incident rate did not meet our internal target. After identifying an upward trend early in the year, we implemented immediate corrective actions that resulted in an 18 percent reduction in our severe safety incident rate from June to December. Severe safety incidents will continue to be a focus of our key improvement initiatives in 2018. 
We continually work to increase awareness of process 
safety across the company and enhance our process safety management systems, which are an integral part of our business and play a critical role in mitigating risk. In 2017 we concluded a two-year assessment of our process safety management systems across the company, along with a MESSAGE FROM THE CEO3 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT“Our company’s mission is to be a trusted energy partner. ”
review of the mechanical integrity of our onshore and offshore 
locations as part of our ongoing integrity management program. Recommendations and actions from both reviews will help inform improvement programs from 2018 onward.
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 
Our company’s mission is to be a trusted energy partner, and as part of that mission we strive to make a positive impact on the communities where we operate. We are guided by our commitments to international voluntary initiatives designed to advance transparency, environmental protection, human rights and good governance. Along with our other voluntary commitments, Hess continues to support the United Nations Global Compact and the Global Compact U.S. Network, which share best practices in sustainable business conduct across the private sector.
In 2017 our social investments totaled nearly $16 million, with 
more than $8 million going toward education projects, more than $1 million going to disaster relief and recovery efforts in the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey and the balance directed toward economic development, health and capacity building.
ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE
Climate change is a global challenge that requires government, business leaders and civil society to work together on cost-effective policy responses that recognize the vital role that safe, affordable and reliable energy plays in ensuring human welfare, economic growth and security. In June 2017, the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures, which was an outgrowth of the G20 Financial Stability Board, issued its final recommendations on how the financial sector should take account of climate-related issues. Our climate change strategy, which was implemented beginning in 2015, is closely aligned with these recommendations.
Our company has established 2020 reduction targets for 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and flaring. Through 2017 ,  we have reduced flaring and GHG emissions intensities by  38 percent and 23 percent, respectively, compared to our 2014 baseline. Between 2008 and 2017 , we have reduced our equity GHG emissions by more than 6 million tonnes. We will continue to take steps to monitor and measure our progress, including 
additional infrastructure investments in the Bakken that will continue to reduce flaring.
PEOPLE
Hess’ culture is defined by our Values of Integrity, People, Performance, Value Creation, Social Responsibility and Independent Spirit. As part of our Values, we are committed to a diverse and inclusive workplace that fosters learning and development, engagement and innovation. 
In 2017 we continued to reduce the size of our workforce as 
a result of our divestitures and cost-reduction initiatives and announced plans to introduce a new organizational structure in early 2018. Throughout these changes, the Hess Values guided our decisions and the support we provided to those affected. 
Our leadership team regularly shares strategic updates, explains 
the rationale for business decisions and listens to the views of our workforce through a robust program of employee engagement and communications.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURE
Our company views transparency in reporting as a key part of being a trusted energy partner. We are proud to have been recognized once again in 2017 for the quality of our environmental, social and governance performance and disclosure, reinforcing our position as a top-quartile performer in our industry. 
Thank you to our employees, communities, customers, business 
partners and investors. With your ongoing support and partnership, we are building a sustainable enterprise that makes  a positive difference for all our stakeholders and the world around us.
John B. Hess 
Chief Executive Officer
42017 HIGHLIGHTS
2017 KEY ECONOMIC 
METRICS
$ MILLIONS
Recordable Supplier Spend 
(Exploration & Production)$4,656
Capital and Exploration 
Expenditures$2,168
Income Tax Expenses/(Beneﬁt) $(1,837)
Wages and Beneﬁts (U.S.) $603
Royalties and Other Payments $379
Dividends $363
Interest Expenses $325
Social Investments $16
Carbon and NO x Taxes $1
A portion of capital and exploration expenditures  
may include payments to suppliers.Hess Corporation is a leading global independent energy 
company engaged in the exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas.
  306,000
Barrels of Oil Equivalent per Day 
Total Net Hydrocarbons Produced1,154
Million Barrels of Oil  
Equivalent Proved Reserves10.2
Years of 
Reserve Life■  We achieved continued exploration 
success on the Stabroek Block (offshore 
Guyana), in which Hess holds a  
30 percent working interest, with  
four additional world-class discoveries 
announced in 2017. The ﬁrst phase of 
the Liza development was sanctioned in 
June 2017, with ﬁrst production expected 
by 2020. At the end of 2017, total gross 
discovered recoverable resources on the 
Block were estimated at more than  
3.2 billion barrels of oil equivalent. 
■  Our Bakken team increased well 
productivity by approximately  
50 percent over the last two years 
through the application of geosteering, 
optimized spacing, higher stage counts 
and proppant loading. 
■  The North Malay Basin Full Field Development, offshore Malaysia, 
achieved ﬁrst gas in July 2017 safely,  
on time and under budget.
■  We continued to advance the Stampede Development Project in the 
deepwater Gulf of Mexico, achieving 
ﬁrst oil in January 2018.
■  We high graded and focused our portfolio by divesting mature, lower-
return assets in Norway, Equatorial 
Guinea and West Texas. Our 2017 asset 
monetizations resulted in total proceeds 
of $3.4 billion.ABOUT HESS
Production
Midstream
DevelopmentsExploration  HESS PORTFOLIO OF OPERATIONS
Production:  Operated assets include the Bakken in North Dakota; the Utica 
in Ohio; Baldpate, Conger, Penn State, Stampede and Tubular Bells in the Gulf of Mexico; South Arne in Denmark and North Malay Basin in Malaysia. Nonoperated assets include the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area, Shenzi and Llano in the Gulf of Mexico and the Waha Concessions in Libya.
Midstream:  Assets operated by Hess Midstream Partners LP include a natural 
gas processing plant, a rail-loading terminal and associated rail cars, a crude oil truck and pipeline terminal, and crude oil and natural gas gathering systems,  all in North Dakota. 
Developments:  Activities are focused on the nonoperated Liza development  
on the Stabroek Block, offshore Guyana.
Exploration:  Activities are focused on the Atlantic Margin and include 
nonoperated interests in offshore Guyana, Suriname and Canada, and both operated and nonoperated interests in the Gulf of Mexico.
Note: Divestitures in 2017 and early 2018 are not shown on the map. For the purposes of this 
report, Hess Midstream Partners LP is considered a subsidiary of Hess Corporation. Boundaries and restatements of data included in this report are discussed in the Approach to Reporting section.5 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTIn this report, we provide descriptions 
of the company’s 2017 strategy and performance regarding material economic, environmental and social issues. Our annual report, Form 10-K filing and proxy statement detail our financial and governance information and can be found on our website.
   Additional sustainability and investor information  
is available at hess.com/investors
REPORTING STANDARDS
This report was prepared in accordance 
with the Core option of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. It was also informed by the Oil and Gas Industry 
Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting  developed by IPIECA, the 
American Petroleum Institute and the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers; the United Nations (UN) Global Compact’s Ten Principles; key environmental, social and governance (ESG) ratings, including Disclosing the 
Facts,  an investor scorecard developed 
by As You Sow, Boston Common Asset Management and the Investor Environmental Health Network; and recommendations from the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures.
   An index of GRI, IPIECA and UN Global  
Compact reporting indicators is available  at hess.com/gri-index
MATERIALITY
Consistent with GRI’s materiality 
guidance, we identified and prioritized new and emerging issues important  to our stakeholders when developing the content for this report. Through a survey of select industry peers and external stakeholder groups, as well as an annual, document-based assessment of key stakeholder perspectives and Hess’ operational and regulatory risks, we identified the 10 most material issues  for our company: 
■  Regulatory Assurance
■   Water Management■  Transportation Impacts
■  Emergency Preparedness  
and Response
■  Process Safety and Spills
■  Community Engagement
■  Climate Change and Greenhouse  Gas (GHG) Emissions
■  Stakeholder Engagement
■  Transparency in Business Conduct
■   Human Rights and Security
These material issues have informed  
our environment, health, safety and social responsibility strategy and helped to define the boundaries of this report.
   See reporting boundaries for each of these 
issues at hess.com/sustainability/approach-to-
reporting/boundaries-for-material-issues
BOUNDARY SETTING  
Included within the scope of this report 
are the principal facilities and assets operated by Hess Corporation and our subsidiaries during calendar year 2017, unless otherwise indicated. Data presented are gross figures from operated facilities, unless specified otherwise. The report includes partial-year data for the following assets that were divested in 2017:
■  West Texas, including the Permian Basin enhanced oil recovery assets. Period  of data included: January−July 2017.
■  Equatorial Guinea, including the  Okume and Ceiba production operations. Period of data included: January−November 2017.
■  Norway, including the (nonoperated) Valhall production operations. Period of data included in GHG equity-share emissions and social investment spend: January−November 2017.
We report GHG emissions on both an 
operated and equity-share basis in accordance with the GRI G4 Oil and 
Gas Sector Supplement  and the IPIECA Petroleum Industry Guidelines for 
Reporting GHG Emissions (3rd edition, 
2015). We report social investments for our operated assets, joint ventures and nonoperated facilities in which we hold a significant interest. We include contractors in workforce metrics for those contractors whose hours we track.
   See our expanded performance data at  
hess.com/sustainability/performance-data/ key-sustainability-metrics
RESTATEMENTS
We believe our approach to restating 
data complies with the GRI Standards’ principle of comparability and the specific disclosure regarding restatements of information, as well as IPIECA guidance. For GHG emissions, in cases of acquisitions and divestitures and other source ownership and control changes, we adjust our base year emissions if the change exceeds 10 percent of the original base year emissions total. The exact timing of the adjustment depends on several factors, as described in the Hess GHG Inventory Protocol.
   Access the Hess GHG Inventory Protocol at hess.
com/sustainability/climate-change-energy
ASSURANCE
In order to evaluate accuracy and 
reliability, we conduct quality assurance/quality control reviews and validation of both aggregated and facility-level data. Individual numbers in the charts, tables and text may not precisely sum to the total amounts shown due to rounding.  All currency in the report is in U.S. dollars.
This report, including our sustainability 
data and self-declared GRI “in accordance” status, was assured by ERM Certification and Verification Services (see page 54). This external review helps to ensure consistent and objective data collection and reporting of our sustainability performance.APPROACH TO REPORTING6PROGRESS AND GOALS
This section offers a snapshot of our progress and path forward with respect to our most material sustainability programs and 
initiatives; as such, it provides an indication of our commitment to improve performance across a range of issues. Through cont inued 
implementation of our environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy, we are improving how we unders tand 
and manage nontechnical risks in our day-to-day operations while addressing the material sustainability issues facing Hess and the oil 
and gas industry at large. Our strategic efforts planned for 2018 will build on our progress to date.   
Elements of our EHS & SR strategy are included in the summary table that follows, along with our key accomplishments in 2017 an d 
select targets and metrics that we have established to measure how effectively we are implementing our strategy. Our progress a nd 
goals are categorized according to the six sections of the report in which they are discussed.
HOW WE OPERATE
CATEGORY 2017 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2017 GOALS FOR 2018+DISCUSSION  
(PAGE #)
Regulatory 
AssuranceContinue to evaluate and 
enhance our EHS management system*Strengthened the use of our compliance 
tracking tool through the addition of a mobile application for ﬁeld assurance personnel and synchronization with our work order system; formalized the process for assigning work material ﬂows to ﬁeld personnelAs our regulatory compliance systems 
are becoming embedded in daily operations, begin to shift focus to more formal assurance of Hess’ EHS management system in 2018 and beyond*51
Reﬁne and enhance the 
regulatory advocacy process  to ensure that regulatory risks and potential impacts are appropriately characterized  and considered in company decision making*Initiated quarterly regulatory risk 
presentations and monthly summary reports for U.S. onshore assets; formed a team focused on U.S. offshore regulatory risksLaunch a regulatory tracking system 
that aligns regulatory priorities with our risk registers; further enhance U.S. offshore regulatory coordination through quarterly presentations to offshore leadership, aligned with their established operating rhythm in 2018*14
Transparency  
in Business ConductContinue to reﬁne our 
sustainability disclosures to align with stakeholder expectationsPublished our 2016 Sustainability Report  
with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Core “in accordance” option, and prepared to align 2017 reporting with recommendations from the Task Force  on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and the GRI StandardsPublish our 2017 Sustainability Report 
in accordance with the GRI Standards and aligned with the TCFD recommendations in 20185, 37 –38
Enhance our Global Trade 
Compliance Program and revise our Code of Business Conduct and EthicsRevised our Code of Business Conduct and 
Ethics and supported employee training programsContinue to enhance our Global Trade 
Compliance Program and implement training on our revised Code of Business Conduct and Ethics in 201813–14
Supply  
Chain and Contractor ManagementEmbed standard model contracts 
and continue training on and implementation of standards,driving consistency and efﬁciency across all assetsRevised our Procurement Policy to improve 
safety, minimize risk and standardize work throughout the organization; continued to advance the standardization and alignment  of our contractor selection, management  and review process across the enterprise; developed and began implementing new  and updated standard templates for supply contractsContinue to enhance standardization 
and alignment on contractor selection, contracting and management processes across our assets in 201814–15
Management 
SystemsFurther embed the Lean way  
of thinking into Hess’ cultureContinued Lean implementation and 
embedment across Hess: certiﬁed more than 80 employees in ﬁve basic skills who then taught their teams; progressed development of over 110 embedded Lean leaders; and sponsored 12 kaizen workshops with six key contractors, helping to improve safety performance and deliver three producing Stampede wells below budget Expand Lean deployment across Hess, 
including developing Lean leaders in our offshore organization; implement Lean with our key Stampede contractors, including at the offshore drill ships, to apply Lean improvements to routine drilling activities in 201813
Continue to develop and 
implement EHS global standards on a prioritized basis Approved three new EHS global standards 
and completed gap assessments for these standards at selected assetsContinue progressing the EHS global 
standards project through 202011–12
Continue to measure effective 
implementation of the EHS & SR strategy through established targets and metrics*Continued tracking individual EHS & SR 
initiatives through project-speciﬁc work plans as part of our business operating rhythmContinue to measure effective 
implementation of the EHS & SR strategy through 2020*6–9
*Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy.7 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
CATEGORY 2017 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2017 GOALS FOR 2018+DISCUSSION  
(PAGE #)
Governance 
and Management ApproachApprove and continue implementation 
of the Social Responsibility (SR) and Human Rights Standards; integrate  SR and Human Rights Guidelines  into enterprise business processes  to support policies and standards*Continued to integrate social 
responsibility considerations into our enterprise business processesReview governance framework  
and processes to ensure alignment with our business strategy and geographic footprint in 2018; build on prior efforts to map business activities and social investment to the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals in 2018*17
Community  
and Stakeholder EngagementContinue to expand implementation  
of stakeholder engagement and grievance mechanism processes*Initiated stakeholder engagement and 
grievance mechanism processes at two assets and carried out an integrated stakeholder mapping review with one additional assetContinue to advance progress in 2018* 18 –20
Social Risk 
ManagementReview enterprisewide social, 
reputational and human rights risks  to update risk identiﬁcation*Conducted risk assessments in  
North Dakota as part of an increase  
in activity levelContinue to monitor potential risks and 
conduct risk assessments if needed 
based on activity levels in 2018*20–21
Refresh and conduct human  
rights training as needed based on identiﬁed risks*Planned a training for Equatorial 
Guinea for 2017, but it was no  
longer needed with the divestiture  
of that assetConduct human rights training as 
needed based on identiﬁed risks  in 2018 and beyond*20–21
Continue to track the implementation 
of new standards through the number of employees and contractors completing human rights training at high-risk assets, as well as the percentage of new contracts with human rights clauses*No new training statistics to track; 
continued to monitor contracts with human rights clausesContinue to track implementation  
of these efforts in 2018 and beyond*20–21
*Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy.Production Operations, North Dakota  8SAFETY AND HEALTH
CATEGORY 2017 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2017 GOALS FOR 2018+DISCUSSION  
(PAGE #)
Process 
Safety  and SpillsContinue to promote performance 
standards for integrity critical equipment (ICE) and complete asset integrity assessments for all Hess-operated production locations*Achieved established targets for  
ICE performance standards and completed all asset integrity assessmentsBuild on our work with ICE through 
critical maintenance compliance (i.e., inspect, test and maintain ICE to ensure it is performing as expected); actively manage risks identiﬁed through the asset integrity assessments through quarterly reviews in 2018 and beyond*28
Implement our enhanced barrier 
management approach in South Arne in 2017 and at Stampede and North Malay Basin as those assets come online*Completed implementation of our 
enhanced barrier management approach at Stampede through  the use of “bow tie” diagrams; implementation at North Malay  Basin and South Arne is ongoingComplete implementation at these key 
offshore assets in 2018*29
Continue to make improvements in our 
process safety management system and standards*Completed several major efforts  
to bolster our process safety management systems, standards  and practices, as discussed in the Safety and Health sectionPursue improvement programs based 
on recommendations from the 2016–2017 process safety assessment, mainly around deeper integration of our EHS and operational management systems and increased focus on integrity risks in 2018*27–28
Further enhance the enterprisewide 
competency strategy, with a focus  on integrating and enhancing existing global systems; begin the implementation of an enterprisewide tiered EHS assurance program*Launched and implemented the 
enterprisewide three-tiered assurance program; met established targets for number of Tier II audits completedContinue to conduct audits and 
assessments under the tiered assurance program in 2018 and beyond; continue to develop our enhanced enterprisewide competency and training strategy in 2018, with a risk-based implementation program planned for 2019*25
Occupational 
Health  and SafetyMeet a workforce total recordable 
incident rate (TRIR) target of 0.34  or belowSurpassed this goal with a workforce 
TRIR of 0.24 in 2017Meet a workforce TRIR target of 0.20 
or below in 201826
Meet a severe safety incident rate 
target of 0.15 or belowDid not meet this internal target, though 
after identifying an upward trend early in the year, implemented immediate corrective actions that resulted in an  18 percent reduction in the rate from June to DecemberMeet a severe safety incident rate 
target of 0.16 or below in 201827
OUR PEOPLE
CATEGORY 2017 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2017 GOALS FOR 2018+DISCUSSION  
(PAGE #)
Employment 
PracticesPromote a culture of engagement and 
continuous learning; embed the Hess Way of Working into more of our people processes (e.g., performance management and leadership development programs)Integrated the Hess Way of Working 
(including Lean leadership behaviors) into the performance review process for all Hess employeesOffer four Managerial Essentials 
programs in 201834
Continue to simplify and streamline 
talent management processes to deliver targeted development and succession plansCompleted a project to streamline and 
further increase the alignment of our performance, compensation and talent management practicesLeverage our newly implemented 
succession planning technology to identify, develop and track the progress of our high-potential talent and future leaders in 201834–35
Continue to align our structure and 
strategy to provide appropriate promotion and development opportunities and more fully leverage each person’s capabilityDesigned a new grading structure that 
includes additional grades, to provide more career growth opportunities and improve internal equity between different jobsImplement the new grading structure 
and provide a consistent evaluation framework for jobs across the company; address job scope changes due to portfolio adjustments in 201834–35
*Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy.PROGRESS AND GOALS9 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTCLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY
CATEGORY 2017 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2017 GOALS FOR 2018+DISCUSSION  
(PAGE #)
Risk 
ManagementBegin to assess our value assurance 
process to identify opportunities to fully integrate EHS deliverables that include climate change-related actions (e.g., assessment protocols)*Due to organizational realignment  
and asset sales, deferred initiative to further integrate EHS deliverables into our value assurance process; reviewed alignment of our EHS & SR strategy with TCFD recommendations, and identiﬁed an action to conduct portfolio-speciﬁc scenario planningAssess opportunities to integrate EHS 
deliverables into the value assurance process for new projects; conduct a portfolio-speciﬁc carbon asset risk scenario planning exercise in the 2018–2019 timeframe*37–40
Strategy, 
Metrics  and TargetsOperate the Hawkeye Gas Facility  
to help reduce gas ﬂaring*Achieved startup of the Hawkeye Gas 
Facility; initiated additional infrastructure projects slated for completion in 2018 and beyondPursue additional infrastructure projects 
in 2018 that will continue to help  with ﬂaring r eduction in the Bakken, 
including an additional compressor station and a new joint-venture gas plant slated for completion in 2018*43
Complete the capital phase of a 
project to pipe gas that had traditionally been ﬂared in our Okume operation to the Ceiba Field to use as fuel gas to help power our operation*Deferred this project due to the 
divestiture of the Equatorial Guinea asset in 2017No longer applicable, as the asset was 
sold in 2017—
Continue to make progress toward  
our 2020 goal to achieve a 25 percent reduction in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity (tonnes per thousand barrels of oil equivalent (BOE)), versus our 2014 baseline*Reduced GHG emissions intensity  
by 23 percent, compared to our 2014 baselineReview and — if needed per the Hess 
GHG Inventory Protocol — adjust the 2020 GHG intensity reduction target based on asset divestitures*41–42
Continue to improve performance 
related to reducing methane emissions, through ONE Future sector-based targets*Maintained methane emissions below 
the overall 2025 ONE Future target  of less than 1 percent of gross methane production across the value chainContinue to make progress against 
ONE Future sector-based 2025 targets*45
Continue to make progress toward our 
2020 goal to reduce ﬂaring intensity (standard cubic feet per BOE) by  50 percent, versus our 2014 baseline*Reduced ﬂaring intensity by  
38 percent, compared to our 2014 baselineReview and — if necessary — adjust 
the 2020 ﬂaring intensity reduction target based on asset divestitures*42–43
ENVIRONMENT
CATEGORY 2017 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2017 GOALS FOR 2018+DISCUSSION  
(PAGE #)
Water 
ManagementContinue to improve water data 
quality*Enhanced our water data collection 
methodologyContinue to evolve the water data 
collection process to automate collection for trending and future 
target setting in 2018*47
Advance efforts to incorporate water 
management in the risk assessment process*Began water risk planning efforts for 
assets in North Dakota and the Gulf of Mexico, considering the lifecycle of water for each operational activity, as well as mapping of key stakeholdersConduct water risk assessment 
workshops for the North Dakota  and Gulf of Mexico assets in 2018*47
Process 
Safety  and SpillsAchieve a severe environmental incident 
rate target of 0.027; continue to evaluate and enhance our pipeline integrity management programSurpassed our target, achieving  
a severe environmental incident  rate of 0.016Achieve a severe environmental 
incident rate target of 0.019 in 201850–51
Hydraulic 
FracturingContinue involvement with the 
Environmentally Friendly Drilling program and the Energy and Environmental Research Center (EERC) and continue to evaluate water reduction strategiesContinued initiatives to reduce the 
environmental impacts of shale energy development, including advising the EERC working group that developed salt water remediation cleanup guidanceConduct water-related pilot studies  
to assess alternative practices for improving operating efﬁciencies  in both onshore and offshore assets  in 201847–49
*Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy.Stampede Sailaway, Gulf of Mexico11 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTAt Hess, we are committed to helping 
meet the world’s growing energy needs in a safe, environmentally responsible, socially sensitive way, while delivering long-term value to our shareholders and other stakeholders. The Hess Values and our company culture help us meet these high standards of corporate citizenship. 
The six core Hess Values support our 
aim to be the most trusted energy partner. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (Code of Conduct), Social Responsibility (SR) Policy, Human Rights Policy and Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Policy build on our Values to define internal expectations for sustainable management and performance at Hess. We apply these principles to key company processes and initiatives, as described in this section.
GOVERNANCE  
The highest level of oversight at Hess rests with the Board of Directors, which has three principal committees: the Audit Committee, the Compensation and Management Development Committee and the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee.
   See Hess’ committee charters and Corporate 
Governance Guidelines at hess.com/investors
The Audit Committee oversees the 
integrity of the company’s financial statements, financial reporting practices, systems of internal accounting and financial and disclosure controls, and other financial matters such as tax planning, compliance and reporting for income taxes. It also provides oversight of issues relating to environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR), compliance and risk management. Through the Audit Committee and the Board as a whole, Board members actively oversee Hess’ sustainability practices, working alongside senior management so that sustainability risks and strategies receive appropriate 
attention.
   See more on our approach to sustainable tax 
policy at hess.com/sustainability/how-we-
operate/tax-practices
The EHS Subcommittee of the Audit 
Committee is tasked with assisting the Board in identifying, evaluating and monitoring EHS risks and strategies with the potential to affect the people, environment or communities where we operate or our company’s business activities, performance or reputation. The Subcommittee also develops recommendations for the Audit Committee and the full Board on policies, programs and practices to address such strategies and risks. Our Vice President of EHS meets regularly with the Subcommittee and the Chair of the Subcommittee to prioritize actions. The Subcommittee met four times in 2017. 
Each member of the EHS Subcommittee 
is independent and qualified under standards established by applicable law, stock exchange listing standards and Hess’ Corporate Governance Guidelines. Subcommittee members have extensive oil and gas industry experience, including operations, research and development, and financial expertise. To supplement their expertise, Hess brings in outside subject matter experts to brief members on current and developing issues relevant to our business, such as climate change. In addition, Subcommittee members, together with our executive leadership, have engaged in field visits to better understand our key EHS strategies and risks. In 2017, for example, Subcommittee members visited two sites to observe how Hess is managing and mitigating process safety risks to prevent incidents: the Texas fabrication site for the Stampede platform and hull and our South Arne asset in Denmark. The company is governed by the Hess 
Executive Committee, which is composed of Hess’ most senior executives and chaired by our Chief Executive Officer. The Executive Committee focuses on operational, strategic, financial, EHS and social issues and is the highest approval body before the Board. While the Executive Committee meets face to face at least every other month, our Chief Operating Officer chairs an operational subcommittee of the Executive Committee that meets regularly to discuss these same matters.
KEY INITIATIVES
Hess’ Operational Excellence (OE) Network is made up of business leaders and process owners across the company who oversee high-impact, enterprise-level initiatives and align and integrate these 
efforts to create value for the company. 
The network enables us to more effectively design and implement key enterprise initiatives by fostering collaboration across Hess’ global resources and creating standardized methodologies supported by tools and processes. 
Employing this integrated, cross-functional 
network helps us to ensure that projects are planned and implemented holistically — for example, by evaluating how a new or changed process will impact other processes throughout Hess. We also establish metrics to monitor the effectiveness of our processes and verify we are sustaining improvements. 
In 2018 we will restructure the  
OE Network to reflect organizational changes made early in the year. The group, which will be composed of technical authorities in various disciplines, will remain focused on overseeing key enterprise-level initiatives.
Over the past several years, we have 
been working on a number of initiatives to enhance our operational effectiveness and EHS performance. For example, HOW WE OPERATE12we are developing and implementing 
EHS standards across the company to formalize enterprisewide expectations and accountabilities and support a globally consistent approach to operational excellence. These standards, which address key areas of EHS risk and performance,  will be fully implemented by 2020.
We also continue to implement Operations 
of the Future (OOTF), an operational reorganization and improvement plan that focuses on better aligning job duties to business processes to maximize efficiency, reliability, integrity and surveillance; optimize production and costs; and drive continuous improvement, including improvements to EHS performance. OOTF has been implemented at our Bakken and Gulf of Mexico assets, and we will begin to implement it at our North Malay Basin asset in 2018.
   Additional detail can be found at hess.com/
sustainability/how-we-operate/key-initiatives
KEY ENTERPRISE PROCESSES
We apply a number of key processes 
in our company that help to identify and mitigate risks in potential, new and existing operations; achieve operational excellence; and evaluate investment opportunities. 
While these processes are focused on 
our operated assets, it is important to note that we have also established internal expectations for reviewing potential risks in Hess’ nonoperated joint-venture developments. We prioritize four main objectives: building respectful relationships; influencing project outcomes by focusing on issues with the greatest potential impact; establishing governance structures and project assurance plans; and documenting and internally sharing high-value lessons learned. As nonoperated assets represent a significant portion of Hess’ capital spend, we have continued to emphasize our assurance efforts by 
conducting targeted, high-level reviews  of the operators’ facilities and designs.
Enterprise Risk Management
Hess applies a comprehensive, standardized approach to identifying and managing risks of all types across our operations. Our enterprise risk management (ERM) process is used to develop a holistic risk profile for each asset and major capital project, drawing input from subject matter experts, performance data, incident investigations, lessons learned and recent internal audits. In these risk assessments, we identify risks and assess their likelihood and potential impact to people, the environment, our reputation and our business.
Our Risk Management Standard — 
finalized in early 2017 — applies to all assets and major capital projects and has improved the alignment and integration of risk management across our operations and functional areas. The standard establishes a risk framework, accountabilities and expectations across the organization to provide a consistent and integrated risk management process.
As part of our ERM process, risk 
assessments are conducted for all assets and major capital projects annually and for all projects and new opportunities that go through the value assurance process (described at right). Risk registers and reports that are generated through these processes are reviewed and updated throughout the year as part of each asset’s and major project’s operating rhythm. 
We also require that functional-level  
risk assessments be included in each asset’s or project’s risk plan, as determined by each function. Examples include identifying and validating concept selection or confirming the technical basis of design for a facility.In 2017 we concluded a detailed review 
of integrity risk at our producing assets, as part of our ongoing asset integrity management process. This comprehensive effort, which focused on identifying  and mitigating process safety and loss  of containment risks, is described further  in the Safety and Health section.
Value Assurance
Value assurance is a review process Hess uses to characterize and assess our major investment opportunities. It entails internal reviews by those who are not directly involved with the asset or project to provide additional objectivity. Following this process helps us ensure that our capital allocation and portfolio management decisions are based on independently reviewed, high-quality input.
We conduct value assurance reviews of 
our assets and major capital projects as 
part of the business planning cycle to verify that they add value to our company and that the relevant technical expertise has been incorporated. The reviews focus on economics, subsurface and facility design, environmental and socioeconomic considerations, regulatory requirements and other nontechnical risks. We apply a carbon price of $40 per tonne to the greenhouse gas emissions projected to be generated by significant new projects to evaluate the potential impact of carbon cost on project economics and to compare alternative project configurations.
The value assurance process is closely 
aligned with our ERM process so that we can apply consistent methodologies and criteria to risks across our company.
New Country Entry
Our new country entry process helps us assess nontechnical, aboveground risks when evaluating opportunities in a new country of operation. The process also helps the project team mitigate identified risks once a commitment is made to enter HOW WE OPERATE13 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTa new country. Ultimately, the process 
supports our ERM and value assurance workflows, utilizing the necessary information at key decision points in our investment and project planning processes.
   See more detail on these processes at hess.
com/sustainability/how-we-operate/key-enterprise-processes
Lean
At Hess, Lean is not a short-term program 
for achieving cost savings, but rather a holistic cultural shift, changing the way we think and act. Central to this shift has been encouraging our leaders to learn fundamental Lean skills and then apply them to business problems. The leaders then coach and develop employees and contractors to generate solutions themselves. The result is a distinctive Lean culture in which continuous improvement comes from the entire workforce — our “army of problem solvers.”
For nearly a decade, we have been 
implementing Lean principles across our operations to eliminate waste, create value and drive reliability and continuous improvement for our shareholders, business partners, employees and other stakeholders.
We continued Lean implementation 
across Hess in 2017. We certified more than 80 employees as embedded Lean leaders (ELLs), who then trained their teams in basic Lean skills. Our ELLs each delivered one or more kaizen (Japanese for “improvement”) workshops that endeavored to improve business results for their respective assets. We also documented a standard process for ELL selection, training and development, and assessment that includes standard content, templates and a health check. The health 
check provides a structured approach for evaluating the process and ensuring accountability. We are now developing over 110 ELLs, with more planned in the future.
   See examples of success stories on the  
Lean section of our website at hess.com/lean-
advantage  
BUSINESS CONDUCT
In the Hess Code of Conduct, we describe 
the business conduct and behaviors we expect of our employees, officers, directors and contractors. Any individual or company working on behalf of Hess or our subsidiaries is expected to follow similar principles. To promote the Hess Values across our global operations, the Code of Conduct has been translated into the local language of all of our countries of operation. Hess takes disciplinary actions for violations of the Code of Conduct and related policies.
Hess’ compliance policies and procedures 
all stem from our Code of Conduct. These policies and procedures are communicated to and available for all employees globally. Our Global Compliance team establishes, maintains and enforces the compliance policies and procedures, as well as other processes and initiatives to prevent and detect compliance violations. Our aim is to promote an organizational culture that is committed to ethical conduct and compliance with the law. The Chief Compliance Officer informs the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors on  a regular basis regarding certain business conduct issues.
To continuously enforce compliance 
controls and embrace best practices, our Global Compliance team focuses on internal investigations and anti-bribery 
and anti-corruption (ABAC) programs, as well as other enterprise programs and systems. In 2017 our Global Compliance team investigated all issues and allegations referred to the team through the various channels available to our workforce, including our dedicated compliance hotline. In addition, Global Compliance continued to manage the company’s automated approval systems — which are used to review and approve higher-risk transactions and relationships with our business partners — including our system for the disclosure, review and approval or mitigation of potential conflicts of interest. Throughout 2017, Global Compliance also continued to partner with key functions across the company, including Legal, EHS, Human Resources 
and Corporate Audit, to review potential 
issues and implement appropriate remediation steps.
Providing employees with effective training 
on the Hess Values is a key element of strengthening our culture and helping  to ensure that employees understand and embody the Values in their daily work. As part of this effort, our Global Compliance team has developed in-depth online trainings on our Code of Conduct and our ABAC Policy and Procedure. The trainings include examples of how employees can translate the Hess Values into on-the-job actions. All employees who are active at the time training is launched, as well as  all new employees and certain contracted staff, are required to take these trainings and certify compliance with the Code  of Conduct and other applicable policies and procedures. 
EMBEDDED LEAN LEADER (ELL) CERTIFICATION PROCESS
ELL Candidate  
SelectionELL Immersion  
TrainingELL Post-  
CertiﬁcationELL and Manager PreparationHealth  
CheckELL Skill Development  
Assessment and  Certiﬁcation Cycles14The Global Compliance team conducts 
audits and ongoing monitoring to help ensure that all employees complete these online trainings. At year-end 2017, 94 percent of active employees had completed the Code of Conduct training and 96 percent had completed the ABAC training. The Global Compliance team further reinforced the training program in 2017 by conducting live, in-person compliance training for our operations in North Dakota.
POLITICAL ENGAGEMENT
HessPAC
HessPAC serves as the political action 
committee of Hess’ U.S. employees and acts in compliance with U.S. federal election law. HessPAC is used to promote the interests of Hess Corporation. In 2017 HessPAC generated $87,319 in member contributions and distributed $34,000 to candidates of both major parties at the state and federal levels.
All federal contributions from HessPAC are 
publicly disclosed and accessible through the U.S. Federal Election Commission’s website (www.fec.gov). State contributions from HessPAC are publicly available on the Secretary of State website of each respective state where HessPAC is active. As legally permitted, Hess corporate funds were used to provide administrative support for HessPAC.
Advocacy
Hess is in regular communication with an array of stakeholders in the public policy arena, including legislators and regulators both in the U.S. and internationally. Hess executives and our Government and External Affairs team engage with legislative and regulatory institutions to offer a unique perspective on energy policy issues, to better understand federal and state requirements applicable to our operations and to mitigate potential risks to the company’s license to operate. Consistent with Hess principles and 
values, our political engagement is done in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations, and no direct political contributions are made by Hess employees using corporate funds.
Hess complies with all lobbying reporting 
requirements outlined in the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 and all substantial amendments made to the law by  P .L. 110-81, the Honest Leadership and Open Government Act of 2007. In 2017 the company’s lobbying expenses totaled approximately $825,000. This includes expenses for external consultants and trade association dues used for lobbying purposes, as required by the Lobbying Disclosure Act.
Hess belongs to a number of associations 
that include our industry peers and other companies in related sectors. Trade associations provide forums through which companies across the oil and gas industry can develop unified public policy agendas, exchange technical and industry best practices and approach issues relevant to our business with a common voice. Hess requires all trade associations to report all expenses related to lobbying activities, as outlined by the Lobbying Disclosure Act. Our trade associations’ lobbying activities 
accounted for 17 percent of our total 
lobbying spend in 2017.
In 2017 none of Hess’ membership 
fees or dues were used by any of our 
associations for direct political advocacy. Furthermore, no payments made by Hess 
to 501(c)(6) or 501(c)(4) organizations were 
used for express political advocacy. A list 
of memberships and associations that received more than $50,000 from Hess in 
2017 can be found on page 55.
We recognize that our positions do not 
always align with all formal positions of the associations, organizations and collaborative working groups in which we participate. Our funding should not 
be considered a direct endorsement of the entire range of activities undertaken by these associations, organizations or 
collaborative working groups.
Hess has a strict internal policy that 
prohibits our employees from engaging with elected officials or regulators as an official representative of the company without the approval of the Vice President of External Affairs. Our policy extends 
to Hess employees who serve on trade association committees that advocate for policy changes. The policy helps to ensure that Hess continues to operate at the highest level of integrity and transparency and remains compliant with all reporting requirements.
As part of the regulatory assurance 
element of our EHS & SR strategy, we aim to align our advocacy priorities with our established processes related to ERM and EHS. We also conduct ongoing assessments of our global advocacy priorities, to drive improvements to our process for tracking and informing our advocacy efforts.
SUPPLY CHAIN
Nearly 70 percent of Hess’ total workforce hours are completed by business partners, suppliers and contractors, making them critical to our overall success and our ability to operate efficiently and responsibly. In 2017 we purchased approximately $4.7 billion in goods and services from more than 4,000 suppliers.
We work collaboratively with these 
suppliers to improve performance and create shared value. We jointly review processes, procedures and data with suppliers to help drive the right actions and foster continuous improvement.
While this section describes our general 
approach to engagements with our suppliers, these practices may differ HOW WE OPERATE15 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTin certain instances if necessary to 
comply with applicable local laws and requirements.
Management Approach 
We manage our key suppliers with a cross-functional team that works collaboratively to reach mutually agreed-upon targets for safety, quality, delivery and cost.
In 2017 we revised and improved our 
Procurement Policy to help us improve safety, minimize risk and standardize work throughout the organization. Our policy specifies who should participate in the evaluation of tenders, management of contracts and ongoing procurement of goods and services. It also includes code of ethics and conflict of interest guidelines and states that employees who violate the Procurement Policy are subject to disciplinary actions. The combination of our updated policy with other parts of our supply chain management system help to ensure that suppliers understand and abide by our high ethical, safety and other performance standards, while helping us avoid unexpected commitments and leverage our spend more effectively. 
Hess follows a standardized approach to 
evaluate and measure the performance of key potential and current suppliers on the basis of total value, including safety, quality, delivery and cost. We employ a systematic prequalification and selection process to help ensure we are working with qualified and safe suppliers. Where appropriate, potential suppliers — as determined by a risk-based decision matrix — undergo a risk review, an ABAC and legal compliance review and a review of EHS performance and programs. In addition, our procurement staff reviews where appropriate the potential suppliers’ insurance, tax and quality information. If discrepancies with our applicable requirements arise, the relevant department within Hess conducts an additional review and develops mitigation 
plans as needed.
Contracts that involve higher risk, due 
to either the number of workhours the supplier will work for Hess or the scope of that work, are subject to an EHS review during the procurement process that covers training qualifications, safety programs and performance, environmental management systems and measurement, and emergency preparedness and response. As one part of the EHS review, we use recognized industry prequalification systems for our areas of operation in the U.S. and Europe. Outside of these areas, we use a standardized process with a questionnaire based on our 14 EHS & SR management system elements. Further detail on our EHS-related qualifications review during procurement can be found in the Safety and Health section.
The companies that supply Hess with 
goods and services must comply with applicable laws and regulations in areas such as EHS, drug and alcohol use, conflicts of interest and anti-corruption 
laws, and must maintain any licensing or permitting requirements with respect to their activities. Suppliers are also required to meet the expectations set forth in our Code of Conduct and Hess’ Voluntary Commitments regarding labor and human rights (see pages 17 and 20). Standard contract clauses include requirements with respect to ethical business practices, human rights, social 
responsibility, business integrity, search 
and seizure, quality and EHS.
Local Content
Internationally we often prioritize local suppliers when performing under 
production-sharing contracts or other 
agreements with host countries. These agreements vary, but may include use of 
an approved supplier list, requirements 
for government approval of suppliers 
or threshold specifications for local companies or workers.
   See more on Hess’ expectations and requirements 
for suppliers at suppliers.hess.com and  
hess.com/sustainability/how-we-operate/supply-chain
Planning Room, Houston, TexasMeal Preparation for Hurricane Harvey Relief Efforts,  
Houston, Texas17 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTOur company has integrated social 
responsibility (SR) into the way we do business every day, proactively engaging with communities and stakeholders in all our areas of operation. Hess’ approach to SR centers on three focus areas: stakeholder engagement, social risk and impact management, and strategic social investments that facilitate direct and indirect local benefits. These efforts help us to maximize our business value, manage social risks and impacts and create opportunities for stakeholders. 
GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
Hess’ commitment to ethical and responsible business practices begins with the Hess Values and Code of Conduct. The Hess Value of Social Responsibility commits us to meet the highest standards of corporate citizenship by protecting the health and safety of our employees, safeguarding the environment and creating a long-lasting positive impact on the communities where we do business. Our Code of Conduct describes the business conduct and behaviors that we expect of our employees, officers, directors and contractors, including our expectations regarding human rights.
We have endorsed or formally joined a 
number of voluntary initiatives designed  to protect the environment, promote human rights and encourage financial transparency. We collectively call these our “Voluntary Commitments.” They include: 
■  The Universal Declaration of  Human Rights
■  The International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work
■  The United Nations (UN) Global Compact
■  The Voluntary Principles on Security  and Human Rights
■  The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI)These Voluntary Commitments inform our 
SR, Human Rights, and Security and Human Rights Policies. Hess’ SR Policy, for example, obligates us to demonstrate high standards of ethics and integrity and outlines our commitments to communities and our workforce. Our Human Rights Policy specifically prohibits child labor, forced labor and workplace harassment  in our operations; it also covers key  issues relating to our supply chain and community engagement. Our Security  and Human Rights Policy sets forth guidelines governing the use of force by Hess employees and private security contractors employed by Hess, when such security is needed. These policies are supported at the local level through training, toolkits and procedures specific to the needs of our operational locations.
In early 2018 we initiated a review of the 
company processes that support our Voluntary Commitments, to align them with 
our changed asset portfolio and risk profile.
Organizational Structure
Hess deploys SR resources across the organization. To do this effectively, we have a core SR team combined with local resources who are embedded with our assets and project teams. The role of the core team is to develop governance, advise executives, manage companywide social performance, provide technical and functional support to the assets and project teams, and provide assurance across these efforts. The asset and project resources report into the business line management structure and are responsible for developing and executing asset- or project-specific SR plans. SR activities are integrated and aligned between the core team at our operational headquarters in Houston and global locations.
 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
United Nations member countries have adopted a set of 17 goals — called the 
Sustainable Development Goals, or SDGs — as part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development. It is widely recognized that governments, civil society and the private 
sector must all play a role in achieving these ambitious goals. In 2017 Hess undertook a 
mapping exercise to review alignment between our current practices and the SDGs. 
The exercise revealed that our contributions align with eight of the 17 goals, with the 
greatest positive impact on the following two: 
Goal 4: Ensure inclusive and quality education for all and promote lifelong learning 
Our ongoing commitment to supporting quality education is evident through our 
ﬁnancial support for educational programs for young people, including Succeed 2020 
in North Dakota, PRODEGE II in Equatorial Guinea, English literacy in Malaysia and 
LEAP 2.0 in Houston, all of which are discussed later in this section. While the ﬁrst two 
of these programs came to a close in 2017, education will continue to be a focus of our 
social investments. We invested more than $8 million in education in 2017, representing 
54 percent of our overall social investment spend. 
Goal 8: Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth  
We prioritize hiring local workers across our areas of operation, and we purchase from 
local vendors where practicable. In Denmark and Malaysia, for example, local nationals 
represent 99 and 92 percent of employees at those locations, respectively. In 2017 we 
spent approximately $4 billion on local suppliers, or 85 percent of our total supplier 
spend for the year. In the U.S., we are supporting the development of local resources 
through the Job Experience Training program (discussed later in this section), as well as 
supporting current Hess employees through an early-career development program for 
engineers. Hess’ joint venture in Guyana also seeks to employ local nationals and 
support local suppliers. 
We plan to further evaluate the alignment of the SDGs with our material issues in 2018.18STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Effectively engaging with stakeholders  
in our host communities helps Hess to responsibly access the resources we require as an international energy company — from the earliest phases of our new country entry process through the decommissioning of an asset. Proactive, two-way and ongoing stakeholder engagement helps to establish a mutual understanding of expectations between Hess and those who live and work in our areas of operation. We understand that our success is in part tied to our ability to mitigate the potential risks associated with our activities, which could impact stakeholder relationships and public perception. We aim to create value through mutually beneficial opportunities with our stakeholders, which include communities, employees, contractors, suppliers, customers, industry members, governments and investors. 
Stakeholder Engagement Process
Our stakeholder engagement process focuses on the proactive relationship- and trust-building opportunities created by 
meaningful engagement, as well as the business value that engagement brings when it is integrated as a part of project risk management. Consistent with our continuous improvement methodology, we follow a “Plan, Do, Check, Adjust” cycle to direct our stakeholder management efforts. As the expectations, priorities and concerns of our stakeholders evolve, we adjust our approach to align with their needs and our business activities. 
In 2017 we reviewed our stakeholder 
engagement process and associated tools 
at our Bakken asset as part of the regular 
planning cycle. The result was a refreshed and robust engagement strategy, which will be integrated into the asset’s 2018 business plan. We will also continue to integrate stakeholder issues and engagement into our enterprise risk workshops and value assurance reviews.
We are working with our other assets,  
as part of implementing our environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy, to develop individualized plans for engaging with 
their priority stakeholders. Our Gulf of Mexico, Denmark and Ghana assets developed engagement plans in 2017, and our other assets are in various stages of developing their plans.
Grievance Mechanisms
We believe that developing strong and transparent relationships with communities and addressing potential issues early — before they may grow into more severe  or widespread problems — helps to avoid incidents. At the same time, formal grievance mechanisms provide stakeholders with a means for sharing feedback with companies on their operational impacts, while also helping companies respond to and act on that feedback through an established process. Through the use of our grievance mechanisms, we aim to strengthen our relationships with communities and respond more effectively to their concerns. 
At our Bakken asset in North Dakota, we 
maintain a grievance mechanism called Hess Community Connection. Launched in 2015, this system accepts complaints (anonymously, if desired) through several access points, including via our Grievance Officer, Hess Owner Solutions team, North Dakota front desk staff and Surface Land department. We have reached out to community members through forums such as community meetings to share information about this grievance mechanism and explain how  to contact us if they perceive a problem.
Hess Community Connection receives 
and addresses concerns relating to employee or contractor performance, behavior and activities toward external stakeholders. We may also receive feedback on workplace, procurement, EHS and supplier issues. The most commonly raised topics include issues such as road conditions, erosion, land 
Define :
Desired Outcome,
Relationship Owner,
Engagement and/or Response,
Indicators and Metrics
Implement Engagement Plan  
           Grievance 
           ManagementUnderstand: 
Stakes, Needs and 
Timing Interrelationships 
One-Off or Cross-Asset 
 
Map to Grids:
Rate Influence & Interest
Rate Strength of
RelationshipSTAKEHOLDERSTrack Engagements &Grievance Resolution
Report Regularly
Share Lessons 
LearnedLong-Term & 
Short-Term
Business
ObjectivesRisksImpacts/
Issues    IDENTIFY OBJECTIVES, RISKS & IMPACTS                                 ANALYZE  &  MAP   
  MON
ITO
R                                                            DEFINE & IMPLEMENT 1
2 4
3SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PROCESS19 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTEXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS
Collaborating with stakeholders helps us to identify opportunities for beneﬁting our host communities while improving our busin ess and 
strengthening our license to operate. We engage with a wide range of external stakeholders — from local landowners and governme nts to 
community service agencies and indigenous groups. Recent examples of our stakeholder engagement activities are provided below.
CATEGORY EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDER GROUPS RECENT EXAMPLES OF ENGAGEMENT
Land Users/LandownersResidents, landowners, 
commercial land interests, farmers, ranchersContinued to work through the Hess Community Connection to increase 
communication with stakeholders. Conducted annual meetings with landowners. Developed a new process for monitoring pipelines after construction to prevent potential issues. Donated funds to landowners who are ranchers and farmers to help feed their livestock during a drought.
Resources Users/ 
Rights HoldersMineral rights owners, water 
rights owners and users, hunters/ﬁshers/gatherersIntegrated our Stakeholder Management System with Hess’ Owner 
Relations function, enabling us to improve information sharing between systems and decrease the turnaround time for answering questions and resolving grievances. Also, improved the user interface and accessibility  of the website for owners.   
GovernmentsLocal, regional and national 
authorities, national militaries, international governing authoritiesHosted the governor of North Dakota and his staff on a ﬁeld tour of Hess 
facilities in the Bakken, to increase awareness of our operations, technology and safety. Hosted the director of the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement at Hess’ operational headquarters in Houston, to tour Hess’ Emergency Operations Center and brief him on safety measures and procedures in relation to severe weather and the impact on offshore operations. Also, a Hess representative serves on the North Dakota Oil and Gas Research Council, a public–private partnership.
Direct Economic InterestsInvestment partners, vendors and 
suppliers, contractors, unions, shareholdersImplemented the Job Experience Training program in North Dakota, 
providing valuable work experience to students from Bismarck State College. Also, a Hess representative was appointed by the North Dakota governor to sit on the Innovative Education Task Force Advisory Committee, which is aimed at helping colleges meet the state’s workforce needs. Through our joint venture in Guyana, hosted open houses for key business associations and launched an oil and gas literacy series through the newly opened Centre for Local Business Development. Also through the joint venture, opened an online supplier registration portal aimed at providing greater opportunities to Guyanese suppliers.  
External Business InterestsChambers of commerce, industry 
organizations, local businesses, sustainability initiativesA Hess representative served on the executive committee of IPIECA. 
Leaders of Hess’ EHS and SR functions actively participated in IPIECA and International Association of Oil and Gas Producers working groups and stakeholder engagement activities focused on topics such as social responsibility, water, climate change, environment, health, safety and sustainability reporting. A Hess representative also served on the advisory board for the University of North Dakota’s Petroleum Engineering Program, the board of directors for the Greater North Dakota Chamber of Commerce and the executive committee and board of directors for the North Dakota Petroleum Council.
Special Interest GroupsNongovernmental organizations, 
religious groups, cause-oriented nonproﬁts, community groupsParticipated in multi-stakeholder initiatives, including the Voluntary 
Principles on Security and Human Rights, the EITI and the UN Global Compact, to advance responsible business practices globally. A Hess representative served on the board of the North Dakota Outdoor Heritage Fund, a governor-appointed position. Helped to fund the construction of a mountain bike trail in Theodore Roosevelt National Park in North Dakota.
Community ServicesLocal police/ﬁre/emergency 
medical services, health care services, education, human service agenciesContinued to sponsor the Scholars Program in Ghana, which has provided 
secondary, vocational, technical and health education to underprivileged students since 2012. Distributed food supplies, stoves and electrical equipment to almost 500 families affected by monsoon ﬂooding in Malaysia, where we work with nonproﬁt groups to identify and respond  to community needs. Donated signiﬁcant funds and volunteer time to Hurricane Harvey relief efforts in Houston. 
Indigenous GroupsFormally recognized groups, tribal 
coalitions, government supporting agencies, indigenous advocacy groupsContinued engagement with local ﬁshing villages in Ghana, through  
their Paramount Chiefs and community members, including providing updates on Hess business activities.20SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
reclamation, fencing, cattle guards  
and weeds. In 2017 we received 281 grievances through Hess Community Connection.
When alerted to a potential issue, our 
response team draws employees from various disciplines within Hess such as EHS, drilling, completions, operations, maintenance, civil construction and human resources in order to reach a resolution. For example, safety concerns are forwarded to Hess’ EHS department; individual worker complaints are handled by Human Resources; and business integrity or ethics complaints are referred to our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics hotline. By engaging each discipline as appropriate, we are able to escalate management of the grievance upward in the company as necessary to help resolve the issue.
We maintain an internal database — the 
stakeholder management system (SMS) — to track these grievances from start  to completion. (The SMS also supports  our stakeholder engagement process, described previously.) The response team strives to complete their investigation within 14 days of the original report and provide a response and/or resolution within 30 days. As a final step before closing a case, we contact the stakeholder to confirm they feel the issue has been adequately addressed. Trending data on grievances are reported upward to the Bakken Leadership Team  as part of our weekly operating rhythm.
As we continue to work toward the 
integration of formal grievance mechanisms at additional assets, we are relying on our existing manual tracking process at those assets to resolve issues in a timely manner. 
Separately, we maintain a grievance 
mechanism for landowners and mineral rights holders associated with all of our U.S. onshore assets. Specifically, we have a telephone hotline, webpage and email address through which these individuals can ask questions and share 
concerns and complaints. Our Owner Relations and Owner Support teams manage this system, and in 2017 they began using the SMS to track open issues and ensure they are resolved. During the year, we received more than 16,000 emails and 3,000 phone calls through this mechanism, approximately 2,500 of which developed into SMS cases to be tracked and addressed.
SOCIAL RISK AND IMPACT MANAGEMENT
When Hess enters a new country, commissions a new development or expands an existing facility, we engage with stakeholders to proactively identify, mitigate and manage aboveground risks that can impact our activities or the communities 
where we operate. As part of our strategic 
planning processes for these activities,  we examine the social, political and reputational environment to identify nontechnical risks and mitigation activities.
We address human rights considerations 
throughout the process, including during due diligence and social risk identification, mitigation and management. We also  have a Security and Human Rights Toolkit that we utilize locally for training security 
personnel on human rights issues. 
In North Dakota, risk assessment and 
impact management are ongoing as  we expand operations and choose new well pad locations. Elsewhere around the world, our business cycle is such that assessments have been completed in  past years, with potential risks taken into account, incorporated into management plans and mitigated.
Human Rights
While we believe it is the duty of governments to protect human rights, we know that companies like ours must build trusted partnerships and treat all citizens with dignity and respect wherever we operate. Our strategy is to prevent human 
rights-related incidents by engaging with stakeholders to proactively address potential issues. The complex environments in which we operate present an opportunity to make positive and lasting contributions in the areas of governance, transparency, respect for rule of law, and social and economic development.
We have worked to align our business 
practices with our SR, Human Rights, and Security and Human Rights Policies. Human rights issues are analyzed at all phases of our business activities, beginning with new country entry.
Hess is committed to educating our 
personnel on the importance of respecting human rights as well as raising internal awareness of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (Voluntary Principles). Over the years, we have invited external experts to provide human rights training to our employees around the globe. We also utilize an online human rights training module for employees that explains the concept of human rights and why they are important for Hess, reviews our Human Rights Policy, offers guidance on integrating respect for human rights into employees’ daily work and provides directions on how to report suspected human rights violations.
We developed an internal SharePoint site 
focused on Hess’ SR policies and initiatives that covers our Voluntary Commitments, including the Voluntary Principles. Through that site, Hess employees can link to the Voluntary Principles website and key components of our security and human rights governance framework. The internal SharePoint site is updated periodically with additional reference materials, presentations and internal examples of security and human rights best practices.
While we had planned to conduct security 
and human rights training for employees in 21 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTEquatorial Guinea last year, the event was 
canceled due to the sale of that asset. Instead, we focused on due diligence related to that transaction during the latter portion of 2017. Implementation of the Voluntary Principles and human rights-related questions were part of the due diligence process.
COMMUNITY BENEFITS AND CAPACITY BUILDING
At Hess, we seek to be a responsible corporate citizen and to create positive, mutually beneficial relationships with our host communities. Our programs are focused on creating shared value in local communities and a favorable environment for our operations. At the local level, our assets create, maintain and implement strategic social investment programs tailored to each operation and community.
We evaluate our programs to confirm  
a balance of strategic investment and support of local organizations, which helps us evolve along with the changing development needs of the communities where we operate. Hess focuses on established partnerships with key organizations, projects best aligned with business and social risks and projects identified from social assessments. We integrate this strategy into our business, enhancing investment visibility and leveraging volunteer opportunities for  our employees.
Our social investment programs contribute 
to education improvement and work skill development, which are fundamental to sustainable economic growth. We also seek to identify opportunities in our supply chain to provide lasting economic benefit through local job creation. Our programs generally fall into two categories: corporate-led, multi-year, larger-scale programs and asset-based projects with moderate funding levels.In 2017 our social investments totaled 
$15.7 million, with $8.5 million going toward education projects. Another  $5.9 million was earmarked for economic development, health and capacity building. The remaining $1.3 million was for disaster relief efforts, mainly related to Hurricane Harvey recovery.
Flagship Investments in Education
Hess has been supporting two flagship social investment programs focused on developing secondary education systems and capacity: PRODEGE II and Succeed 2020. While these programs have been  an important cornerstone of Hess’ 
educational investment over the past  
five to eight years, we concluded our involvement in both programs in 2017 and are working to develop our forward-looking educational investment strategy in 2018.
PRODEGE II
The Program for Educational Development of Equatorial Guinea, or PRODEGE II, has been a partnership between Hess and the Equatorial Guinean government aimed at strengthening preschool, primary and junior secondary education in that country. This $50 million, public–private partnership has sought to increase the capacity of the education sector and improve the work  of teachers, school directors and public officials in their policy making. Over the past eight years, PRODEGE has accredited almost 1,000 teachers and reached more than 135,000 students. The following are the program’s most significant results:
■  Launched a new professional development program to certify up to 1,500 preschool and primary school teachers; when fully implemented, this  will decrease the number of unaccredited teachers by 33 percent.
■  Developed a new nationwide professional development program, focused on reinforcing active learning methods, for approximately 7,500 teachers in a peer-support network.■  Developed the first Education Management Information System in  the country, to accurately identify weaknesses in the educational system and make data-based policy decisions.
■  Assisted the Education Ministry’s Statistical Unit in annual data collection; this data has since been used to produce the census and educational reports  of several international organizations, including the World Bank, the UN  and UNICEF. 54%8%6%
27%2%1%
<1%
QEducation $8,492
Q  Community $4,302
Q  Disaster Relief $1,281
Q  Environment $877
Q  In-Kind $348
Q  Arts and Culture $194
Q  Health $102
Q  Civic and Employee $752017 Social Investment Spend  
by Type of Investment
($ Thousands)
1%
Note: These charts include all social investments in 2017, including those 
associated with joint-venture operations.2017 Social Investment Spend by Country
($ Thousands)
* Includes Denmark, Malaysia and Norway.OU.S. $10,455
OEquatorial Guinea $3,444
OGuyana $1,365
OGhana $308
OAll Others* $9867%
22%2%
9%22■  Developed the interventions needed by 
secondary schools to strengthen school management and improve the quality  of teaching, including training more than 750 school directors and master teachers in instructional leadership  and active learning, and training lead teachers and department heads at 137 public secondary schools in updated  and innovative teaching methods  for mathematics.
We have transferred our role in the 
PRODEGE II program to the new operator of the Equatorial Guinea asset. We feel confident that the progress made during our participation will continue to pay dividends for the country’s education system for years to come.
Succeed 2020
In North Dakota, we initiated the five-year Succeed 2020 program in 2012 with a $25 million grant to FHI 360, a nonprofit human development organization that ran the program. Succeed 2020 was implemented through the state’s Regional Education Associations (REAs). The program’s overarching goal was ambitious: The successful transition of all North Dakota students from secondary education to college and careers. The 
program sought to achieve this goal by implementing activities supporting access to and success in rigorous academic and career and technical education (CTE) programs, ongoing college and career counseling and planning, and targeted and coordinated support for students needing additional help.
In 2017, the last year of the program, FHI 
360 and the REAs assessed progress over the preceding five years and prepared for the transition to post-Succeed 2020 operations. Program outcomes revealed by the assessment include an 8 percentage point increase in the number of state scholarships and a 1 percentage point increase in high school completion rates. 
More than 90 percent of educators 
surveyed who took part in Succeed 2020’s professional development programs reported a positive change in their teaching practices and in student learning. Ninety-three percent of students surveyed reported knowing more about careers after taking part in the program. In addition, five REAs developed strategic plans and created or updated their human resources policies. During the 2016–2017 school year 
alone, more than 1,000 students took CTE courses and nearly 3,000 took part in career fairs, job shadows, internships and other career exploration activities.
Overall, Succeed 2020 has served as  
a foundation and springboard for future advancements in North Dakota’s education system, with the REAs now poised to build on their accomplishments and continue helping students complete their educations and start their careers. 
We are currently evaluating inroads  
from Succeed 2020 and where future investment in education can link with Hess’ business needs, as demonstrated in the Job Experience Training program described in the next section.
Local Program Highlights
Hess’ global assets and Houston operational headquarters engaged in a variety of local social investment, capacity building and infrastructure improvement opportunities in 2017.
Continued Commitment to Education 
As illustrated in the previous two examples, Hess has long supported educational opportunities for children and young adults around the world. In 2017 Hess also teamed up with the British Council on  a one-year project aimed at improving 
English literacy in three rural primary 
schools near our operations in Malaysia. 
While children in urban regions in Malaysia often go to special classes to learn English, 
those in rural areas do not always have that 
opportunity. With funding support from 
Hess, this project is helping to set up 
libraries in the three schools, conduct 
teacher training and mentor teachers  
to ensure the project’s sustainability. During 
the year, Hess Asia team members visited 
each of the three schools to meet with 
children and parents and assess the 
program’s progress.
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
English Literacy Program, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia23 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTIn the Houston area, Hess previously 
supported LEAP (Learn, Engage, Advance, Persevere) — a three-year pilot program that sought to prevent at-risk middle school students from dropping out. That program concluded in 2016, so in 2017 Hess launched LEAP 2.0 in collaboration with the Greater Houston Community Foundation. LEAP 2.0 is a three-year program that will engage students at three elementary schools, one middle school and one high school. Among other activities, the program will give books to the elementary-aged students; offer a summer program for middle school students that focuses on science, technology, engineering and math (STEM); and provide college- and career-readiness training to high school students. Hess is contributing more than $500,000 annually to the program. 
Growing with Guyana 
Through our joint venture with Esso Exploration and Production Guyana Limited (EEPGL), Hess is focusing on three key areas of social investment in Guyana — spending with local suppliers, developing local resources and inv esting 
in the community. A key achievement for the joint venture in 2017 was the opening of the Centre for Business Development, which aims to further the capabilities of local Guyanese businesses by helping them build their capacity and improve their competitiveness; providing opportunities  for procurement, as well as mentoring, coaching and financial support; and providing information on safety and technical standards. Through EEPGL, Hess will contribute approximately $460,000  to the Centre over a period of three years.
EEPGL also hosted several training events 
for potential suppliers and employees in 2017. Two of the training events, which were open to government agencies and private-sector groups (including EEPGL waste contractors), focused on waste management and included both classroom and field components. The summer 
session covered general waste management principles and practices  (i.e., waste management strategy and planning, waste management technologies and cost recovery), while the fall session focused on landfill design and operation. Other environmentally-focused trainings have covered oil spill management and protected species observer certification. Hess is working closely with EEPGL to develop social investments planned for  the coming years.
Apprenticeships in North Dakota
In May 2017 our Bakken asset launched Job Experience Training (JET), an  apprenticeship program for reliability 
operators and craft personnel developed in collaboration with Bismarck State College. Driven by the need for qualified personnel in North Dakota, we established the JET program to train potential employees in our corporate culture and way of operating while also teaching them the basics of several key Hess roles. The students, for their part, gain valuable job experience and earn academic credits. Four students took part in the first year  of the JET program; three of them were subsequently hired by either Hess or our contractors. Although it began as a one-year pilot, JET is primed to continue in 2018 with a new set of students.SUPPORTING HURRICANE HARVEY RECOVERY  
IN HOUSTON
In the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey, Hess convened the cross-functional Hurricane 
Harvey Recovery Team (HHRT) to allow for a coordinated, holistic response to the 
needs of our employees and the greater Houston community. Hess’ HHRT executed a 
variety of actions to meet the following key objectives:
■   Implement an employee assistance program
■   Identify and mitigate business continuity issues
■   Deliver communications to stakeholders to help the workforce recover, meet business 
objectives, minimize disruption and enhance our reputation
■   Prioritize and implement a social responsibility program to support community 
recovery efforts
■   Capture lessons learned from the HHRT to develop standard work for future  
recovery efforts
To address the needs of the community, we donated $1 million to the Hurricane Harvey 
Relief Fund (administered by the Greater Houston Community Foundation). This fund 
provided emergency supplies such as food, water and medicine, in addition to longer-
term recovery assistance to help impacted individuals recover and rebuild.
We also established a matching gift program for employees worldwide who wanted to 
make a personal donation to one of three relief organizations that our company would 
match, and we accelerated the annual United Way fundraising campaign in our Houston 
operational headquarters. These efforts raised $645,000, which was disbursed as follows:
■   $250,000 to the Hurricane Harvey Relief Fund
■   $55,000 to the American Red Cross
■   $340,000 to the United Way of Houston
In addition, our Houston kitchen staff prepared 10,000 hot meals for evacuees and ﬁrst 
responders. We also donated 19,000 Hess Toy Trucks to ﬁrst responders for their holiday 
toy drives and to schools near our Houston ofﬁce to brighten the holidays for children 
impacted by the hurricane.
The immediate emergency response efforts are discussed further in the Safety and 
Health section of this report, and the employee assistance program is further detailed  
in the Our People section.Drilling Operations, Gulf of Mexico25 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTHess’ first priority is the safety of our 
workforce. Our safety programs and practices are designed to promote a culture in which employees and contractors keep each other safe on the job so that everyone across our operations returns home safe every day. 
Our commitment to occupational and 
process safety begins at the top of our organization and is reinforced at every level. We include key enterprisewide safety metrics in our annual incentive plan formula for executives and employees. We reinforce the importance of safety through annual Chief Executive Officer’s and President’s Awards for Safety Excellence, which recognize Hess teams and individuals who exemplify outstanding safety performance. We have also been working to enhance our safety leadership training program by developing operational leads as trainers, with pilots of the enhanced program planned for implementation at selected assets in 2018. 
We aim for continuous improvement in 
safety performance, with the ultimate goal of zero safety incidents. Hess’ 14-element Environment, Health, Safety and Social Responsibility (EHS & SR) Management System Manual serves as a 
framework for managing and measuring our safety performance.
Through our global EHS standards 
project, we have been working to formalize and standardize many of our EHS practices across the company. Hess’ safety standards and procedures address key areas of safety risk — such as energy isolation, dropped objects and confined space entry — and promote leadership, awareness, consistency and accountability across all levels of the organization.
In 2017 we formalized our EHS assurance 
program for reviewing conformance with our external and internal obligations, including regulations, standards and procedures. The program operates in three tiers. At the Tier I level and as an independent assurance function, Hess’ Corporate Audit department conducts annual audits following a risk-based plan that covers various EHS topics, including occupational safety, process safety, management of environmental impacts and drilling process safety. Highlights from Tier I audits are reported to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, as well as the boards of several of our 
joint-venture assets, as applicable. At the Tier II level, working collaboratively with assets, subject matter experts conduct assessments to evaluate conformance with corporate and asset EHS standards and procedures, as well as regulations, and assist assets in addressing identified improvement opportunities. The Tier III 
level constitutes routine self-assessments 
by assets against corporate EHS standards, corporate and asset-level procedures, and regulations. 
Hess’ Corporate Audit department 
conducted EHS audits and advisories across the organization during 2017, in 
accordance with an EHS Tier 1 Audit Plan, 
which was reviewed and approved by the 
Board of Directors’ EHS Subcommittee. Hess subject matter experts also 
completed 83 percent of our scheduled 
Tier II assessments in 2017, surpassing 
our goal of 80 percent completion. At the Tier III level, self-assessments in the 
form of behavioral safety observations, 
leadership site visits, hazard observation 
cards and other mechanisms are ongoing 
and happen throughout the year.
SAFETY AND HEALTH
IDENTIFYING AND ADDRESSING ROOT CAUSES  
THROUGH LEAN PRACTICES
In line with Hess’ commitment to Lean practices, we held an enterprisewide “Go to 
Gemba” event in January 2017 to engage our workforce directly through open-ended 
conversations about pre-job planning. Gemba means “the real place” in Japanese and, 
in practice, “Going to Gemba” means having EHS and Lean experts travel to our 
worksites to observe safety behaviors and interview personnel. Hess asset and central 
function leadership conducted Gemba site visits at several of our operational locations 
in 2017, including those in Equatorial Guinea, Denmark, the Gulf of Mexico, Malaysia, 
North Dakota, Ohio and West Texas. 
Based on our learnings from the ﬁeld visits, we were able to identify root causes that 
have the potential to impact our safety performance and also develop countermeasures 
to address those root causes. One of the countermeasures, for example, was to develop 
a standard work instruction (SWI) to improve the pre-job planning process. The project 
team held a kaizen (Japanese for “improvement”) workshop to collaboratively develop 
the SWI, which was ﬁeld tested and ultimately ﬁnalized later in the year. We are 
planning a follow-up exercise in 2018 to review the status of the SWI’s adoption by our 
operational locations.
TIER I 
Corporate Audit:  
Evaluates risk 
and control structure 
 
TIER II 
Central EHS:
Verifies compliance to standards 
 
TIER III 
Assets and Facilities:
Tests systems and barriersEHS ASSURANCE STRUCTURE26OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY
We encourage a culture of ownership 
over occupational safety by tasking workers with identifying and mitigating the safety issues most relevant to their operations. As an example, our Behavioral Safety Observation Program (BSOP) has helped to advance our global safety performance by identifying specific at-risk behaviors through trend analysis and then providing feedback to our workforce on mitigation strategies. As a peer-to-peer observation program, 
BSOP utilizes trained workers to observe their colleagues’ workplace behaviors and then provide constructive feedback on safe work practices. Behavioral safety programs have been in place at our U.S. onshore assets since 2011, and best practices developed at those assets were codified into an enterprisewide standard in early 2017. Later in the year, we began implementing this standard at the Gulfstar 1 production platform operated by Hess in the Tubular Bells Field (Gulf of Mexico). The 22 trained behavioral observers on Gulfstar 1 are obtaining valuable data to enable the platform’s leadership to focus their efforts to improve safe work practices. 
In 2018 we plan to extend BSOP 
implementation to the platforms operated by Hess in the Stampede and Baldpate Fields in the Gulf of Mexico. 
Transportation safety is another key 
focus of our occupational safety efforts at Hess, as safe driving practices are important to both our workers and the communities where we operate. Our 
Land Transportation Standard outlines the 
three pillars of land transportation safety at Hess: driver training and competency, the use of in-vehicle monitoring systems for company-owned or -operated vehicles, and journey management planning. Hess workers take proactive driver training before operating a motor vehicle on company business, with refresher training required every three years. Our key contractors are required to comply with Land Transportation Safety 
Recommended Practice , Report No. 365, 
published by the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP).
Our Land Transportation group publishes 
weekly safety bulletins that are sent to Hess assets globally and address key topics, such as distracted driving, safe parking and safety technology. Many  
of our bulletins are also provided to  key contractors. 
In 2017 we began installing upgraded 
performance-monitoring systems in Hess-owned or -operated vehicles. Technological advancements enable the new monitors to collect driver performance data in greater detail than prior versions. The monitors provide direct feedback to drivers, and data from the monitors help managers promote continual improvement by allowing them to reinforce positive driving behaviors and directly address areas for improvement.
Key Performance Metrics
Our enterprisewide safety performance was strong in 2017, with improvements in key safety metrics. The total recordable incident rate (TRIR) for our workforce — which includes employees and contractors — decreased from 0.39 in 2016 to 0.24 in 2017. This 38 percent reduction was primarily driven by a significant decrease in contractor incidents, which allowed us to surpass our target of 0.34 for the year. Working with companies whose safety philosophy aligns with ours is critical, and we have been promoting Hess’ safety expectations with key contractors through implementation of our Contractor Management Standard, discussed later in this section. 
Also of note, we observed a positive trend 
in our workforce lost time incident rate, which decreased 38 percent — from 0.13 in 2016 to 0.08 in 2017. We experienced no workforce fatalities among either employees or contractors in 2017.
We believe that tracking leading 
safety indicators — such as near-miss incidents that have potential high/severe consequences — is as important as tracking lagging indicators to improve safety performance. We require that information concerning near-miss SAFETY AND HEALTH
QWorkforce TRIR
Q  Workforce Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR)
* Hess’ workforce data includes both employees and contractors. When 
calculating LTIR, calendar work days are used. A lost time incident involves one or more days away from work, excluding the day of the incident. Occupational illness and occupation-related disease for current employees are included in our companywide safety totals.Workforce Safety Performance*
Cases per 200,000 Hours
2015 20160.36
0.08 0.080.39
0.130.24
2017QEmployee Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)
Q  Contractor TRIR2015 20160.240.39
0.100.50
0.090.31
2017Employee and Contractor  
Safety Performance
Cases per 200,000 Hours27 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTincidents be reported internally and 
recorded into our incident management system. Hess’ enterprisewide annual incentive plan metrics include targets aimed at reducing the rates of severe safety incidents and severe environmental incidents; both rates include near-miss incidents with potential high/severe consequences.
Our revised EHS Incident Reporting and 
Investigation Standard, which took effect at the beginning of 2017, provides tools and procedures for classifying incidents and near misses; standardizes notification requirements and action timelines for incidents and near misses; and sets forth the appropriate investigation technique based on the severity of the incident. Tracking and reporting incidents and near misses enables us to communicate lessons learned and take actions to address at-risk behaviors and observed workplace hazards. PROCESS SAFETY 
Hess’ process safety program aims to prevent unplanned or uncontrolled loss of primary containment of any material, including materials that are nontoxic and nonflammable (e.g., steam, nitrogen, compressed air), that could result in an incident such as an injury, fire, explosion, toxic release or environmental impact. Our efforts focus on understanding and identifying key points within process safety systems that could impact integrity and the safe and proper operation of equipment, as follows:
■  Design integrity  – reducing risks in the 
design and construction of facilities
■  Technical integrity  – inspecting, testing 
and maintaining hardware and software barriers
■  Operational integrity  – working within 
operational design parameters
Our design integrity processes, which 
involve detailed risk analyses, have been a key aspect of our recent and 
ongoing development projects, including the Stampede Project in the Gulf of Mexico; the North Malay Basin Full Field Development Project, offshore Malaysia; and the Hawkeye Gas Facility in North Dakota. These projects have applied various risk assessment and mitigation studies and tools — such as hazard and operability studies, layers-of-protection analyses, “bow tie” analyses and quantitative risk analyses — throughout the development process, as appropriate. 
Key Initiatives
Across Hess operations, our approach to process safety involves identifying, managing and mitigating risks. We do this by raising awareness of risks among our workforce, providing strong safety leadership and maintaining a commitment to continuously improving our process safety procedures, systems and standards. In 2017 we completed several major efforts aimed at enhancing our practices. 
For example, we concluded an 
enterprisewide assessment of our process safety systems. We contracted an independent third party to review and benchmark Hess’ process safety organization, leadership, commitment and culture; process safety management system documentation; and process safety performance and metrics. The assessment involved a review of documentation and interviews with leadership and relevant subject matter experts, as well as field audits at facilities in our Bakken, Denmark, Gulf of Mexico and North Malay Basin operations. The team also audited the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area operated by the Carigali Hess joint venture, which operates under its own process safety organization and management system. These field audits focused, in varying 
LOCAL EFFORTS: KNOWLEDGE-SHARING IN THE BAKKEN
At our Bakken asset, joint employee–contractor safety committees have become a 
successful aspect of our approach to safety. After convening these committees to 
address dropped object incidents in 2014, we expanded them to include consideration  
of a wide range of safety topics (e.g., energy isolation, lifting and hoisting, job safety 
analyses, etc.) throughout our Bakken operations. We now have three committees in the 
Bakken, representing the drilling and workover operations, completions, and construction 
and infrastructure groups. Each committee meets monthly to review key leading safety indicators and collaboratively decide how to manage opportunities for improvement. 
In addition to these joint safety committees, we have a formal Bakken Safety Committee 
— composed of leaders from our production reliability operations, drilling and 
completions, and construction and infrastructure groups — that meets monthly to discuss 
current leading and lagging metrics and address any issues observed based on trends  
in the data. 
Separately, we hold quarterly meetings with our key contractors to discuss topics such as 
our respective behavioral safety observation programs. During these sessions, we discuss 
trends in safety metrics and actions taken to correct unsafe behaviors and conditions.
Among Hess employees, we also convene monthly BSOP meetings to discuss 
observations, scores (used to gauge the quality and effectiveness of the program), 
behaviors (safe and unsafe) and the removal of potential obstacles to safe work. 
These processes complement other safety activities in the region, such as job safety 
analyses, job task hazard hunts, safety stand downs and monthly communication of 
program metrics. As a testament to all of these activities, the Bakken Well Factory 
organization (i.e., well planning, construction, drilling and completions) observed no 
recordable incidents — as deﬁned by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration 
— from February 2016 to year-end 2017.28degrees, on the integrity and reliability of 
specific safety critical equipment (e.g., the inspection and maintenance of fire systems, pressure relief valves, etc.), training and competency, management of change, contractor management, emergency response, risk assessment, stop-work authority, alarm management and incident investigation, among other key topics. 
The assessment was designed to identify 
improvement opportunities directly relevant to each asset, as well as systemic, enterprisewide opportunities. For the improvement areas identified, we reviewed alignment with current and planned future EHS initiatives. Recommendations and actions from the assessment will help inform our process safety and management system improvement programs from 2018 onward. The Carigali Hess joint venture will also utilize the assessment results to inform improvements to its process safety and management systems moving forward.
Also in 2017 we concluded a 
comprehensive review of mechanical integrity at our assets as part of our ongoing integrity management program. These Asset Integrity Assessments 
(AIAs) involved detailed reviews of the 
mechanical integrity of wells, pressure equipment, piping, flow lines, injection lines, tanks, vessels and other equipment that is intended to avoid or mitigate a loss of primary containment. All Hess-operated production locations completed their AIAs by year-end 2017. We are using the results from the AIAs to augment our existing integrity risk management processes and provide us with a consistent baseline for future risk studies.
In addition, we met our goal for 
establishing performance standards and maintenance and test plans for all integrity critical equipment (ICE), which acts as a barrier for the occurrence of incidents through isolation, containment, prevention, detection, control, mitigation or emergency preparedness and response. The standards set specific expectations and criteria for inspections and maintenance that help to ensure each barrier is effective. By systematically establishing performance standards for individual pieces of equipment, we have enhanced the maintenance programs previously in place for our production 
operations. For 2018 and beyond, we are building on this effort by formalizing our critical maintenance compliance program — that is, inspecting, testing and maintaining ICE to verify it is performing as expected and meeting the standards. 
We have also substantially finished 
addressing actions from a series of process safety health checks, which have provided a high-level, global assessment of process safety in our production  and drilling operations. We completed  99 percent of the identified actions by the end of 2017 and are now closing out the few remaining items.
A survey of existing Hess engineering 
standards and specifications identified 52 additional standards that could be issued to further improve process safety and operations by establishing consistent 
technical requirements across the enterprise. Utilizing a Lean project plan we issued 49 of these standards by the 
end of 2017. 
Deepwater assets, which include 
wells at a depth of more than 1,000 feet underwater, can, in certain circumstances, present unique challenges compared to land-based wells. In particular, because offshore wells tend to operate much deeper and under greater pressure, they present specific risks related to the containment of accidental discharges. Hess currently operates offshore production facilities in the Gulf of Mexico at the Baldpate, Tubular Bells and Stampede Fields — the latter of which achieved first oil in early 2018. These assets are subject to the U.S. federal government’s Safety and Environmental Management System regulations, which provide a systematic approach for identifying, managing and mitigating hazards.
SAFETY AND HEALTH
Offshore Operations, Gulf of Thailand29 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTOur Stampede Development Project 
provides a positive example of how process safety is integrated into design from the outset, helping to support strong process safety performance. On the platform, living quarters and other selected buildings are protected from fire and blast hazards, stored quantities of hazardous substances are minimized, and some chemicals are stored in the hull (instead of on the deck) with double containment to prevent leaks. In addition, pipelines and production flowlines are routed to provide maximum separation between the hydrocarbons and personnel, and are located away from marine traffic and loads lifted by cranes. The design also includes subsea isolation valves and boarding valves on the platform to protect both the facility and personnel in the event of an accidental release.
At Stampede and our other offshore 
operations, “barrier thinking” has been a key part of our ongoing process safety efforts. Barrier thinking involves understanding the role of barriers in relation to hazards, threats, events and consequences. 
In 2017 we continued to use “bow tie” 
diagrams to help employees and contractors visualize threats, barriers and consequences. During the year we used bow tie models within our Gulf of Mexico organization, to test awareness of the presence, use and effectiveness of barriers (both preventative and mitigative) designed to guard against major accidents. Stampede’s bow tie models were developed and in place prior to first oil and were used to promote safe operations on the platform from day one of production. Similarly, while still our asset, Equatorial Guinea used bow tie models at the Ceiba and Okume facilities. Our South Arne and North Malay Basin assets’ bow tie project implementation  is ongoing. Key Performance Metrics
Hess collects information on process safety key performance indicators (KPIs) pursuant to the IOGP’s Process Safety 
— Recommended Practice on Key Performance Indicators , Report No. 456, 
November 2011. Categorized as Tier 1 and Tier 2 KPIs, these are reported at an enterprisewide level in both internal and external reports.
We continued a positive trend in our 
process safety performance in 2017, in line with our goal to continually reduce our number of process safety events (PSEs). We experienced seven Tier 1 events in 2017, compared to 11 in 2016. Likewise, we had 22 Tier 2 events in 2017, down 
from 30 in 2016.
PROCESS SAFETY EVENTS
2015 2016 2017
Tier 1
PSE Count21 11 7
Tier 2
PSE Count43 30 22
Hess also tracks Tier 3 and 4 KPIs, 
which are leading process safety indicators primarily designed to monitor risk control systems and process safety barriers at the facility, asset or enterprise level. We use these KPIs to support continuous improvement at particular facilities or within company systems. For instance, our global drilling and completions function tracks Tier 3 KPIs specific to their operations, such as well control system performance and loss of power events. An example of a Tier 4 KPI is the implementation of performance standard tests for ICE (discussed on the previous page), which was an indicator included in the 2017 annual incentive plan bonus calculation for employees. 
  EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS  
AND RESPONSE
Hess’ safety programs endeavor to prevent incidents from happening. At the same time, we diligently prepare to respond effectively to any emergency that may occur. We regularly participate in emergency preparedness and response drills with our contractors, ranging from notification drills to full-scale equipment mobilization exercises. In the event of an incident, Hess’ emergency preparedness and response program is designed to respond to injuries to people, spills and releases to the environment, damage to our assets and impacts to the company’s reputation — in that order of priority.
The Hess Emergency Preparedness and 
Response Standard, which every Hess asset is working to fully implement by year-end 2018, establishes a framework through which we can further improve the effective management of emergency preparedness and response across our assets and defines company expectations for preparedness, training, exercises and continuous improvement. Preparedness focuses on our three-tiered response organization (illustrated below), engagement with officials and 
communities, emergency facilities and 
response plans. The training and exercise component defines and clarifies roles, 
HESS EMERGENCY 
RESPONSE ORGANIZATION
TIER 3ISTIncident Support Team
HOUSTONTIER 2IMTIncident Management TeamASSETTIER 1ERTEmergency Response TeamFACILITY30SAFETY AND HEALTH
responsibilities and resources. Continuous 
improvement is an essential element of the standard by which we incorporate lessons learned from incidents and exercises into our preparedness, training and exercises.
Our emergency preparedness and 
response efforts were put to the test in 2017 when four hurricanes struck the Gulf of Mexico. The most challenging of these was Hurricane Harvey, a Category 4 storm that made landfall in Texas on August 26. In response to this event, we activated our Gulf of Mexico Hurricane Response Plan, Hess Tower Hurricane Response Plan and Hess Tower Business Continuity Plan. 
During the storm, all three tiers of our 
emergency response organization were activated. The Tier 1 Emergency Response Teams de-manned four facilities — three platforms and one contract drilling rig — and shut-in the wells at two facilities. Our Tier 2 Incident Management Team (IMT) set the response objectives, tracked weather updates, provided status reports and monitored logistical support. The Tier 3 Incident Support Team at Hess’ operational headquarters in Houston kept the Hess Executive Committee informed and stood ready to support the IMT as necessary. 
After the hurricane passed through, 
we focused on getting business back to normal. We were able to re-man all assets by September 1. Hess Tower in Houston closed for business until September 5, primarily to help prevent our employees and contractors from traveling through flooded water and in unsafe driving conditions. As discussed in the Social Responsibility section of this report, we formed the Hurricane Harvey Recovery Team to allow for a coordinated, holistic response to the needs of our employees and the greater Houston community. Also, our Global Supply Chain group identified and worked with contractors impacted by the 
hurricane, resolving all key supply chain issues by September 29.
CONTRACTOR MANAGEMENT
We rely on contractors — who comprise nearly 70 percent of our total workforce hours — to perform key tasks in our operations. Hess’ EHS management system helps us to keep contractors safe on the job. 
We use a recognized industry 
safety database to standardize our prequalification processes and contractor data management across multiple sites for our U.S. operations. This enables us to more clearly communicate requirements and expectations to our contractors and share information more efficiently across Hess operations.
Our Contractor Management Standard 
includes requirements for both current and potential new contractors to whom 
the standard applies. For example, we 
require compliance with the seven Hess Rules, which outline global safe work practices. We also require our U.S. onshore contractors to submit Hess-specific workhour and safety incident data for each of our asset locations. In addition, we expect our contractors to follow their own EHS programs and comply with local, state and federal requirements as well as applicable industry standards and best practices.
For potential contractors subject to the 
Contractor Management Standard, we continue to conduct reviews of those who are considered higher risk, due to considerations such as the number of exposure hours for the job or the nature of the work they will perform (e.g., drilling and completions or offshore work). The prequalification process may also include an on-location audit. In addition, new contractors working on Hess-controlled worksites must take part in an enhanced 
onboarding process.
Our contractor management process 
gives contractors a letter grade based on factors such as past EHS performance and existing safety management systems. Contractors must earn a satisfactory grade. If a contractor receives an unsatisfactory grade based on EHS criteria, the asset vice president or director or a more senior Hess employee must endorse a safety improvement action plan before that contractor may be approved for procurement. If an operational situation (such as an emergency) requires the use of a contractor that has not completed the prequalification process or that has received an unsatisfactory grade, the asset vice president or director must approve the use of the contractor, and asset management must provide increased oversight.
In 2017 we began implementing our 
Contractor Management Standard across our international assets, and we continued our development of asset-specific procedures.
For the evaluation of marine contractors 
and vessels, we use our enterprisewide marine assurance framework as well as the Offshore Vessel Management and Self-Assessment program, a tool developed by the Oil Companies International Marine Forum. The program helps ensure a clearer and more consistent communication of our needs and expectations to our marine contractors and enables us to review the qualifications of marine contractors from around the world using an internationally accepted, standardized approach. Also as part of the program, we rate our marine contractors’ performance and use the resulting scores to determine where improvement plans may be needed.31 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTHEALTH AND WELLNESS
Hess strives to provide a healthy work 
environment for both employees and contractors. We provide annual on-site flu vaccines, first aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation training, and health and wellness fairs for our workforce. Our health and wellness fairs bring local vendors directly to workers during business hours and provide many options for improving personal health, including meal plans developed by a nutritionist, exercise programs shared by personal trainers and outdoor events to increase physical activity.
We maintain a random drug and alcohol 
testing program for employees and contractors at our U.S. facilities. This effort includes the management of regulatory drug testing programs required by the U.S. Department of Transportation and U.S. Coast Guard. In early 2018 we approved a Drug and Alcohol Testing Standard, which updates and expands upon our prior Drug and Alcohol Procedure. 
Over the past several years Hess has 
worked with the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) — a branch of the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention — in order to promote the organization’s efforts to partner with the oil and gas industry to help ensure the industry is taking appropriate measures to keep workers safe. Through Hess’ partnership with NIOSH under the National Occupational Research Agenda, we have provided support to NIOSH in its conduct of in-depth, on-site studies on occupational health and industrial hygiene topics. These studies help raise awareness among Hess employees of best practices and opportunities for improvement, in addition to leading to industrywide recommendations. For example, this collaborative effort has led to the development of recommendations on topics such as 
manual tank gauging, levels of exposure to particulates and vapors during the drilling and completions process, and the effectiveness of personal protective equipment in preventing exposure to technically enhanced naturally occurring radioactive materials. 
We continually seek new ways to address 
potential health risks that may arise for our workforce. For example, in 2017 we 
completed a transition to truck-mounted Lease Automatic Custody Transfer (LACT) units. LACT units provide an automated way for employees to assess the amount and quality of oil in a tank, as manual tank gauging can potentially expose workers to harmful vapors if not performed properly. LACT units are now used at various locations throughout our Bakken and Utica assets.
Production Operations, North DakotaMidstream Control Room, North Dakota33 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTOur employees are critical to Hess’ 
success. We seek to maintain a company culture that emphasizes leadership, continuous learning, employee engagement and diversity and inclusion. 
In line with our strategy to deliver 
significant long-term value to shareholders, we divested our interests in assets in West Texas, Equatorial Guinea and Norway in 2017 in order to focus the company’s portfolio and allocate capital to our higher-return assets. As a result, we had to make some difficult choices about continuing to reduce our workforce in line with Hess’ portfolio going forward. Our decisions were grounded in the Hess Values, with a focus on long-term sustainability and growth without compromising our focus on safety. The company’s restructuring and associated staff reductions took place in January 2018 and will not be reflected in our employee totals until next year’s sustainability report.  
EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS
Hess began last year with 2,304 employees, and as of December 31, 2017, we had 2,075 employees. At year’s end, approximately 85 percent of employees were located in the U.S. and 15 percent were in international locations.
2017 EMPLOYEES BY REGION
Americas 1,770 85%
Asia-Paciﬁc 156 8%
Europe 124 6%
Africa 25 1%
EMPLOYEES IN TRANSITION
Employees who were not retained through 
the company’s restructuring in 2017 and early 2018 were offered severance packages to help ease their transitions. The company also provided outplacement services to support them with resume preparation, interview skills and job search strategies as they launched their search for new employment. This approach 
is consistent with Hess’ values, which include treating people with fairness, honesty and respect.
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
Hess is committed to diversity and equal employment opportunities for all employees and job candidates regardless of race, color, gender, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, creed, national origin, genetic information, disability, veteran status or any other protected status in recruitment, hiring, compensation, promotion, training, assignment of work, performance evaluation and all other aspects of employment.
We do not tolerate any form of workplace 
harassment, including sexual harassment. We reinforce these expectations through our Code of Conduct, our Equal Employment Opportunity and Harassment-Free Workplace Policies and training (for U.S.-based managers), other human resources policies and our Human Rights and Social Responsibility Policies.
In 2017 we created the Hess Inclusion 
and Diversity Council to provide executive leadership and direction to our inclusion and diversity initiatives. The council develops strategies that align with our overall business objectives and measures progress on the strategies’ implementation throughout the organization. Last year the group focused on better alignment of Hess 
policies and practices, with the ultimate goals of attracting the best available talent and more fully utilizing the potential and contributions of all employees. Through this effort we aim to better engage employees from across the organization to foster the innovation that often comes from different ideas and experiences.
Also in 2017 we continued our diversity 
outreach efforts with organizations that advocate for minorities, women, veterans and the disabled, including the National Business & Disability Council at the Viscardi Center, the National Diversity Council, the U.S. Business Leadership Network, the National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering, the Women’s Energy Network, the Society of Women Engineers and the Veteran Jobs Mission. We also continue to support additional membership-based organizations that promote a diversity of expression and thought.
Our proportion of women and U.S. 
minority employees, as defined by the U.S. Department of Labor, remained relatively 
flat in 2017 compared to 2016. We are 
committed to fostering the professional growth of women and minorities throughout Hess. As an example, Women Inspiring Success and Excellence (WISE) — an internal networking group formed 
OUR PEOPLE
2017 WOMEN AND MINORITY* REPRESENTATION
WOMEN  
(U.S. AND INTERNATIONAL)MINORITIES  
(U.S.- BASED EMPLOYEES)
JOB  
CATEGORYTotal 
Employees 
in Job 
CategoryNumber of 
WomenPercent 
WomenTotal 
Employees 
in Job 
CategoryNumber of 
MinoritiesPercent 
Minorities
Executives and 
Senior Ofﬁcers42 5 12% 37 4 11%
First and Mid-Level 
Managers477 96 20% 382 73 19%
Professionals 1,103 365 33% 937 245 26%
Other 453 105 23% 399 74 19%
Total 2,075 571 28% 1,755 396 23%
*As deﬁned by the U.S. Department of Labor34OUR PEOPLE
in 2015 at our operational headquarters 
in Houston — has a vision to “help promote and cultivate leadership skills, business practices, career opportunities and personal contacts for women.” WISE expanded to include a chapter in North Dakota in 2017 and has grown to more than 270 members companywide. The group held monthly lunch meetings, and its members attended external conferences and networking events in the Houston area throughout the year.
In keeping with our aim to foster diversity 
and cultivate leadership, we employ a high number of local nationals in our international operations and report publicly where the number of employees is 100 or more. Overall the percentage of local nationals, as well as the proportion of nationals holding managerial or professional positions, has increased significantly at our international operations over the past five years. In particular, the percentage of local nationals increased from 83 to 99 percent in Denmark and from 72 to 92 percent in Malaysia during this period.
TALENT MANAGEMENT
Hess’ comprehensive talent management process helps enable our employees to develop the skills they need to perform their current jobs and to take on more responsibility as their careers progress. It also enables the company to develop succession and hiring plans and develop talent in support of Hess’ strategic goals.
CareerManager, our integrated human 
resources system, provides a common platform for Individual Development Plans (IDPs), objective setting and performance evaluations. We encourage every employee to prepare an IDP as a roadmap for setting and achieving career goals, developing capabilities and maximizing career opportunities. In 2017 we implemented additional 
succession-planning functionality to the system to further enhance the availability of talent data, assessments and career-planning tools. These improvements give us the ability to analyze critical information about our organizational capabilities and bench strength. In 2018 we will drive the usage of our talent tools deeper into the organization to provide additional guidance and resources to employees to support 
their individual career development.
We regularly seek out opportunities for 
continuous improvement in our talent 
management practices. In 2017, for example, we convened a project team to streamline and further integrate our performance, compensation and talent management practices to better enable us to reward and retain our critical talent.
Integrating Lean as a Way of 
Working
In 2017 we advanced our goal of 
establishing a distinctive Lean culture across the company. Notably, we developed and launched a new Lean-based behavioral model we call the Hess Way of Working, which represents an evolution in our leadership model and also builds on the Hess Values. The Hess Way of Working outlines multiple expectations for employee and leadership behavior, organized into three categories: people, direction and results. In the people category, as one example, the model states that we expect leaders to focus on the needs of others before they consider their own. To support this new model, we introduced compulsory, computer-based training for all employees, to set Lean expectations and introduce core Lean skills that employees can apply immediately in their own work. Going forward, we will use this model to assess the annual performance of every employee.
In addition to launching the Hess Way 
of Working, we have embedded Lean in our operations by continuing to train 
select employees to teach Lean and apply its concepts and tools to specific improvement projects in their work areas. We also assigned our most experienced Lean practitioners to facilitate a number of high-value enterprise projects. Hess will continue to build on these efforts moving forward.
Learning and Development
Our enterprisewide learning management system — CareerManager Learning — houses a variety of computer-based training modules and supporting materials for instructor-led courses. It also tracks and records employee training and measures training effectiveness through surveys and evaluations.
In 2017 we piloted a new learning program 
focused on professional development. The training covered topics such as delivering presentations, improving individual productivity and project management. We also continued to offer focused training for employees who are new to supervisory roles. Program topics in this course include setting performance expectations, motivating team members, providing effective feedback and more.
Throughout the year, individual operating 
and support functions within Hess encouraged knowledge-sharing through “lunch and learns” and other informal gatherings. Employees also took part in professional development opportunities, including engagement with trade associations, attendance at conferences and enrollment in external courses.
New Hires and Early-Career 
Programs
Employees new to Hess benefit from our 
onboarding and orientation program, Passport to Hess. This year-long program is designed to facilitate a smooth assimilation into the company through close interaction between supervisors and 35 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTnew employees. The experience begins 
with access to a pre-hire portal that enables new employees to learn about their work location prior to their first day on the job. After beginning their jobs at Hess, employees can access a structured, on-demand learning program that explains our culture and values. In addition, supervisors receive tools and coaching to guide them in helping a new hire successfully integrate into a work team. The Passport to Hess program intersects with our employee engagement activities (discussed at right) to help new hires get to know our senior leadership.
In 2017 we launched an early-career 
development program for engineers in our Drilling and Completions function. The program is designed to help these individuals develop the skills and proficiencies needed to succeed in their current and future jobs.
Early-career engineers and geoscientists 
can also take part in our Foundation Program, which helps prepare them for their careers through focused training, mentoring and on-the-job assignments. The Foundation Program maintains relationships with universities that align with our values, standards and business operations. As a part of our commitment to education in the engineering and geosciences fields, Hess leaders serve as members of the academic advisory committees of some of these universities.  
BENEFITS
Hess provided more than $112 million in benefits to our U.S. employees in 2017. During the year, we also updated some of our benefit offerings as part of a long-term strategy to provide better service for employees. In particular, we introduced new short-term disability, maternity and sick leave policies. We simplified the administration of our benefits and health and welfare programs by changing our vendors that provide these services, and 
we moved our savings and pension plans to the same financial firm that administers our employee stock ownership programs. 
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
Hess regularly shares information with and solicits feedback from employees about our business performance and processes. We use a range of engagement tools, including one-on-one and small-group discussions, focus groups and town hall meetings and webcasts. We also utilize the company intranet, digital signage at our major locations and feedback surveys to share information and connect with employees 
in a timely and meaningful manner.
As an example, our Chief Executive 
Officer and Chief Operating Officer 
continue to host small-group sessions, called Leadership Dialogues, to discuss enterprise opportunities and challenges. In 2017 Hess convened 24 Leadership Dialogue sessions, reaching more than 400 employees at our Houston operational headquarters. Additional sessions were held at our regional offices in North Dakota, Denmark, Norway and Malaysia, where we connected with 
another 400 employees. 
We also held three global town hall 
meetings in 2017. The town halls were webcast to all company locations and sought to communicate business updates, reinforce strategy and values and answer questions. Each meeting was followed by a pulse survey to solicit feedback on key company issues and measure the meeting’s effectiveness.
Our employees continue to participate in 
volunteer activities that demonstrate the Hess Value of Social Responsibility. All told, the data we gathered for 2017 show that our employees volunteered approximately 6,700 hours during the year. We are especially proud of their efforts to help the Houston community in the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey, as described below. Employees also raised funds during the year through activities such as the MS 150 bike ride and the Easter Seals Walk. In May, we held a volunteer fair at our Houston operational headquarters where a dozen nonprofit groups set up tables and talked to employees about volunteer needs  and opportunities.
RESPONDING TO HURRICANE HARVEY
When Hurricane Harvey hit Houston in August 2017, Hess joined ﬁrst responders, city 
ofﬁcials and neighbors in responding to the disaster and providing relief — including sending 
money, preparing meals, providing transportation and starting the process of rebuilding.
Through Hess’ Hurricane Harvey Recovery Team, we created a Qualiﬁed Disaster Relief Plan 
to provide recovery assistance to employees who were personally impacted by the storm. 
The plan included four formal assistance programs: cash disaster relief, temporary 
accommodations, transportation and loans. Sixty-six employees received assistance 
through these programs.
To provide employees enough time to volunteer if they wished, Hess developed and 
announced guidance for Harvey-related volunteering that included paid time off for up to 
two days per month through year-end 2017. In total, Hess employees volunteered about 
1,290 hours of time in 2017 related to Hurricane Harvey response and recovery, including at 
local nonproﬁts such as the Avenue Community Development Corporation and the Houston 
Food Bank. 
Hess employees were also generous with donations, contributing $143,000 to the American 
Red Cross and Hurricane Harvey Relief Fund. In addition, our annual United Way campaign 
was accelerated and received a total employee contribution of $170,000. With the employer 
match, Hess’ and our employees’ total contribution to these three organizations (not 
including Hess’ separate $1 million gift to the Hurricane Harvey Relief Fund) was $645,000.Tioga Gas Plant, North Dakota37 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTClimate change is a global challenge that 
requires government, business leaders and civil society to work together on cost-effective policy responses that recognize the vital role safe, affordable and reliable energy plays in ensuring human welfare, economic growth and security. 
Oil and gas are essential to meet 
the world’s growing energy demand, and we are committed to developing these resources in an environmentally responsible and sustainable manner. Our environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy incorporates climate change into our risk management process and addresses actions we can undertake to control and 
reduce our carbon footprint.
Hess will continue to take cost-effective, 
appropriate steps to monitor, measure  and reduce emissions through the following actions:
■  Setting targets to reduce the carbon intensity of our operations
■  Accounting for the cost of carbon in significant new investments
■  Applying innovation and efficiency to reduce energy use, waste and emissions across our operations
 EXTERNAL ENGAGEMENT
We engage with key stakeholders — 
including government agencies, private landowners and communities — on select issues, including climate change-related issues, and we will continue to communicate our performance on these topics in our annual sustainability report and the sustainability section of our company website (hess.com/sustainability). 
Hess is an active member of IPIECA on 
sustainable development issues such as climate change, biodiversity impacts and access to energy — issues that are too complex for individual companies CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY
ALIGNMENT WITH THE TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES 
In June 2017, the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), an outgrowth of the G20 Financial Stability Board , issued its ﬁnal 
recommendations on how the ﬁnancial sector should take account of climate-related issues. The TCFD structured its recommendatio ns around 
the four core elements of how an organization operates: governance, strategy, risk management, and metrics and targets. 
We believe that our strategy is aligned with the TCFD recommendations to evaluate the potential impacts of climate change-relat ed risks and 
opportunities on our organization’s businesses, strategy and ﬁnancial planning.
The table below highlights the TCFD’s four core elements and the actions Hess is taking or will take to integrate these element s into the way we  
do business.
TCFD 
FRAMEWORK:  CORE ELEMENTS HESS EHS & SR STRATEGY: CLIMATE CHANGE ACTIONSDISCUSSION 
(PAGE #)
Governance■   Maintain the EHS Subcommittee of the Board of Directors, which oversees our climate change strategy  
and other EHS matters 
■   Continue to have a climate change subject matter expert brief the Board of Directors, to help ensure  
they are climate change literate and that climate change-related risks are considered in the development  of company strategies and policies3, 11
Strategy■   Maintain a Climate Change Position (Policy) Statement
■   Continue to take proactive steps to measure, manage and mitigate emissions; set targets to reduce 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, methane and ﬂaring
■   Continue environmental, social and governance disclosures, such as our annual sustainability report  
and the CDP Climate Change survey
■   Purchase renewable energy credits and carbon offsets to mitigate a portion of annual emissions totals37, 41–45
Risk 
Management■   Utilize an enhanced enterprise risk management (ERM) process to manage climate change-related risk
■   Screen new projects to balance risk and return on investment
■   Factor carbon pricing of $40 per tonne into signiﬁcant new project evaluations
■   Continue to publish a carbon asset risk analysis (ﬁrst published in Hess’ 2013 Sustainability Report) that 
evaluates the most ambitious GHG reduction scenarios from the International Energy Agency
■   Plan a carbon asset risk scenario planning exercise for execution during the 2018–2019 timeframe12, 38–40
Metrics  
and Targets■   Continue to track progress against Hess’ three global targets that align with the TCFD’s considerations  
for target-setting; i.e., whether the target is absolute or intensity, timeframes over which the target applies, base year against which progress is measured, and key performance indicators used to assess progress against targets41–4538
to tackle alone. IPIECA represents its 
members by engaging with stakeholders and governments on climate change-related topics. It enables collaborative work with stakeholders and governments by promoting an understanding of the key role the oil and gas industry should play in providing innovation, global reach, knowledge and technical expertise to help develop and implement feasible future energy solutions.
Hess has consistently been recognized 
as a leader in the oil and gas industry for our disclosure and transparency relating to sustainability, and we remain committed to our goal of top-quartile performance in this regard. In addition to preparing this sustainability report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s Standards at the Core reporting level, we participate in a number of voluntary initiatives related to climate change disclosure. In 2017 we were recognized on the prestigious CDP Global Climate List as a leader in addressing climate change-related risks and opportunities. Hess earned leadership status, the highest category, for the ninth 
consecutive year and was among the top-ranking energy producers on the list.
Also, for the eighth consecutive year 
we were included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index North America, which highlights public companies with outstanding performance across economic, environmental and social factors, including those related to climate change.
   Access our latest CDP Climate Change response 
at hess.com/sustainability/climate-change-
energy
RISK MANAGEMENT
Through our ERM process we have 
developed risk profiles for each of our assets that capture key risks identified — including those related to climate change. For each risk scenario, we estimate the likelihood and potential impact that these risks could have on our business. We compile all risks we identify as critical on an integrated risk register that catalogs actions for managing or mitigating each risk. All new significant projects are rigorously  screened to verify they meet or exceed 
established threshold return-on-investment criteria to balance risk and return and meet Hess’ capital discipline philosophy.
In addition, we actively evaluate viability 
for significant projects based on potential future carbon constraints. We apply a theoretical carbon price of $40 per tonne of carbon dioxide — based on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) estimate (under the Obama Administration) of the social cost of carbon — in economic evaluations for significant new projects. Factoring carbon dioxide prices into our valuation process enables us to evaluate project viability based on differing ranges of potential future carbon constraints.
Hess has a physical risk management 
framework in place that includes severe weather management plans and procedures, and we utilize business continuity plans that address severe weather events. We maintain insurance coverage for physical damage to our property. The amount of insurance covering physical damage is based  on the asset’s estimated replacement value or the estimated loss.
As part of our ERM process, each Hess 
asset maintains an emergency response plan that details procedures for potential emergency scenarios. In addition to our own experts, Hess has established strategic relationships with third-party specialists who are experienced in emergency response and crisis management. We also have regional  and worldwide mutual aid agreements  and relationships with emergency response organizations that have strategically positioned equipment and personnel to supplement and support our response efforts. See the Environment section for a listing of these organizations.
CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY
Offshore Operations, Gulf of Mexico39 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTCARBON ASSET RISK ASSESSMENT
Our stakeholders have expressed an interest in understanding  
how Hess’ oil and gas portfolio might be impacted by a transition 
to a lower-carbon economy. In particular, a select group of stakeholders and investors has raised concerns that energy 
companies may be overvalued in a future carbon-constrained 
world because these companies may not be able to produce  
a portion of their reserves and, hence, these reserves will be 
“stranded.”
Since 2013, in our annual sustainability report, Hess has been 
providing an assessment of our company’s view on climate 
change-related risks and opportunities that might result from  
a potential transition to a lower-carbon economy. In order to 
evaluate any potential exposure to our portfolio in a lower-
carbon environment, we ﬁrst consider the long-range outlook 
for energy supply and demand. Hess uses the International 
Energy Agency (IEA) World Energy Outlook 2017  to examine 
various supply and demand scenarios through 2040 (see www.
iea.org/weo2017/). The World Energy Outlook 2017  contains 
three main scenarios, as follows:
■  Current Policies –  the business-as-usual case
■  New Policies –  incorporates existing energy policy as well as an 
assessment of the results likely to stem from the implementation 
of announced policy intentions (chieﬂy the Nationally 
Determined Contributions — i.e., the emission reductions agreed 
to by individual countries under the Paris Accord)
■  Sustainable Development –  reﬂects a pathway to achieving key 
energy-related components of the United Nations Sustainable 
Development Agenda, including universal access to modern 
energy by 2030, urgent action to tackle climate change and 
measures to improve poor air qualityThe charts below show world energy demand and carbon dioxide 
emissions under the IEA’s three main scenarios.
Hess’ focus is on the New Policies scenario, which we, along  
with the IEA, view as the most likely environment in which we will 
operate. While the Sustainable Development scenario would be 
extremely challenging to achieve, as discussed in more detail 
below, we also consider that scenario in examining potential risks 
and opportunities associated with our oil and gas portfolio in  
a low-carbon environment.
In the New Policies scenario, worldwide energy use will  
grow approximately 28 percent between 2016 and 2040. In  
this scenario, energy demand for oil and gas is projected to 
grow by 24 percent during the same period and account for  
52 percent of the energy mix in 2040, down slightly from  
54 percent today.
According to the IEA, in this New Policies scenario, the oil and  
gas sector requires cumulative investment of some $21 trillion 
between 2017 and 2040, three-quarters of which is in the 
upstream sector. Upstream capital spending needs to average 
around $640 billion every year to avoid potential mismatches 
between supply and demand. This ﬁgure takes into account the 
need to meet growing oil and gas demand while compensating 
for underlying declines in existing sources of production. Annual 
investment in the upstream sector alone under this scenario 
needs to increase from $435 billion in 2016 to about $535 billion 
per year through 2025 and then to $710 billion per year through 
2040 to balance oil and gas supply and demand. This would 
represent a 25 percent per year increase from current investment 
levels through 2025 and a 60 percent increase from current 
investment levels from 2025 through 2040.
World Primary Energy Demand by Fuel, and Energy-Related Carbon Dioxide Emissions, by IEA Scenario
■Coal ■Oil ■Gas ■Nuclear ■Renewables Carbon Dioxide Emissions0510152025
01020304050Current Policies
2040 2025 2016 2000New Policies
2040 2025 2016 2000Sustainable Development
2040 2025 2016 2000
Gigatons of Carbon DioxideTrillion Tons of Oil Equivalent40CARBON ASSET RISK ASSESSMENT CONTINUEDCLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY
The IEA states that “the impact of the near-record lows of new 
conventional oil projects receiving approval in recent years has yet 
to be fully seen” and stresses the dangers of a possible shortage 
of supply in the future ( World Energy Outlook 2017 , p. 155).
Even in the Sustainable Development scenario (which is consistent 
with a 50 percent chance of limiting the concentration of carbon 
dioxide in the atmosphere to around 450 parts per million), 
worldwide energy use is projected to grow by 2 percent through 
2040 and oil and gas is expected to account for 48 percent  
of the energy mix in 2040, down slightly from 54 percent today.
The IEA has indicated that the challenges of achieving the 
Sustainable Development scenario are substantial, requiring  
a major reallocation of energy-sector investment capital.  
The IEA states that “even in the carbon-constrained world of  
the Sustainable Development scenario, upstream oil and gas 
investment remains a major component of a secure energy 
system” ( World Energy Outlook 2017 , pp. 27–30). Therefore, 
Hess has no reason to assume widespread stranding of 
upstream assets.
Furthermore, according to IHS Energy’s September 2014 report 
Deﬂating the Carbon Bubble , the intrinsic value of an oil and gas 
company is based primarily on its proved reserves, 90 percent  
of which are expected to be monetized during the next 10 to 15 
years. According to IHS Energy, the stranded asset theory 
underestimates the realities of the projected growing demand  
for hydrocarbon resources through 2040 as well as how the 
categorization and timing of reserve development contribute  
to the market valuation of a company.
By using an extremely broad deﬁnition of proved reserves, 
stranded asset proponents misstate how reserves contribute  
to market valuation. The Securities and Exchange Commission 
deﬁnes “proved reserves” as those quantities of oil and natural 
gas that, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can 
within reasonable certainty be estimated to be economically  
 producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs and 
under existing economic conditions, operating methods and 
government regulations.
Stranded asset advocates argue that extractive companies will  
be left with stranded reserves over the next 30 to 40 years, thus 
undercutting valuations. According to IHS Energy, while proved 
reserves on average account for only 24 percent of the resource 
base by volume, they account for 84 percent of the 2014 resource 
base that drives a company’s total valuation. Therefore, reserves 
that are expected to be produced beyond a 15-year time horizon 
appear to have limited impact on a company’s valuation.
The stranded asset theory also assumes that coal, oil and natural 
gas are equally vulnerable to climate policies restricting energy 
sources, without considering the differences in carbon intensities. 
Coal is the most carbon-intensive energy source, with a 
signiﬁcantly larger carbon footprint than natural gas. As a result, 
coal is most likely to experience demand degradation in a 
carbon-constrained economy, while the production of less carbon 
intensive natural gas is being promoted as part of the transition  
to a lower-carbon environment. 
Based on the IHS study and the IEA positions cited in this section, 
Hess believes there is a high likelihood our reserves will be 
monetized and that markets are currently valuing our carbon 
assets rationally. However, in order to further evaluate any 
potential climate change-related risks and opportunities 
associated with Hess’ portfolio, senior management has approved 
a carbon asset risk scenario planning exercise to test the resilience 
of our portfolio against the IEA’s main scenarios. This exercise will 
establish a range of energy supply, demand, oil price and 
emissions estimates that are projected to prevail under different 
publicly available, long-term scenarios for environmental policy 
and market conditions. We anticipate this exercise will allow us to 
qualitatively assess any areas of potential stress on Hess’ portfolio 
in a lower-carbon environment. We expect to conduct this 
scenario planning exercise in 2018 and publish the results in 2019.
54%15%
31%2017 Hess Proved Reserves by Resource Type*
* Deepwater is a conventional resource, but it is shown separately here to provide more clarity 
on our reserve base. Deepwater refers to reserves found below 1,000 feet of water depth.2017 Hess Proved Reserves by Region*
1,154 Million Barrels of Oil Equivalent
* Hess’ proved reserves consist of 72 percent liquids (light and medium crude oils, condensate 
and natural gas liquids) and 28 percent natural gas.69%5%
13%13%
■■
■Conventional (Including Acid Gas)  
  Unconventional  Deepwater41 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTMETRICS AND TARGETS
As part of Hess’ climate change strategy, 
we established three targets aligned with the TCFD’s criteria for target-setting. We have committed to:
■  Reduce our GHG emissions intensity by 25 percent for our 2014 portfolio of operated assets, by 2020 (versus a 2014 emissions baseline)
■  Reduce our flaring emissions intensity by 50 percent for our 2014 portfolio of operated assets, by 2020 (versus a 2014 emissions baseline)
■  Lower methane emissions to less than 1 percent of gross methane production across the U.S. natural gas value chain by 2025
During the second half of 2017, Hess 
divested several assets, including our interests in Equatorial Guinea and enhanced oil recovery assets in the Permian Basin in West Texas. These divestitures may impact our 2020 flaring and GHG intensity reduction targets, which were established in 2014 with an emissions baseline that included these now-divested assets. In 2018 we plan to restate our 2014 baseline and evaluate the potential impact of these divestitures on our current targets. If necessary, we will adjust these targets and present revised targets in our next sustainability report. It is not anticipated that our methane emissions reduction target, which relates to U.S. assets, will be impacted by these divestitures. 
Our performance against our three 
established targets is detailed in the  next section. 
GREENHOUSE GAS 
PERFORMANCE
We report GHG emissions from our oil and 
gas assets on both operated and equity bases. Our GHG emissions estimates include carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide — reported in units of 
carbon dioxide equivalent (CO
2e). In 
2014 Hess began using global warming potentials based on the values in the Fourth Assessment Report: Climate Change 2007  (AR-4), prepared by the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, to estimate CO
2e totals. GHG 
data from 2013 and prior have not been restated, because the impact on historical values was not material (about 1 percent).
Approximately 94 percent of Hess’ direct 
(Scope 1) operated GHG emissions are from stationary combustion sources such as flaring, heaters, turbines and engines. The factors used to estimate emissions for these sources enterprisewide are those prescribed by the U.S. EPA in its GHG Mandatory Reporting Rule (40 CFR Part 98, Subpart C). The remaining  6 percent of our operated GHG emissions are from a variety of noncombustion and fugitive emission sources such as storage tanks, compressor seals, pneumatic pumps and valves. For such sources at onshore facilities, we use the emission factors prescribed by the U.S. EPA in its GHG Mandatory Reporting Rule (40 CFR Part 98, Subpart W). Hess uses other appropriate regulatory or industry-specific factors to estimate fugitive emissions for all other facilities.
We also report indirect emissions 
associated with purchased electricity (Scope 2) and other indirect (Scope 3) emissions.
Operated Emissions  (Scopes 1 and 2)
In 2017, of the estimated 4.1 million tonnes of gross GHG emissions from our operated oil and gas assets, 3.7 million tonnes were Scope 1 emissions, primarily from flaring and fuel combustion, and approximately 0.4 million tonnes were Scope 2 emissions, from purchased electricity. Process operations (primarily 42%6%
52%
QQ
QFlaring 1,918
Fuel Combustion 1,579Other 2262017 Operated Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions by Source
Thousand Tonnes CO2e
Operated Greenhouse Gas Emissions
(Scopes 1 and 2)
QScope 1 Emissions
QScope 2 Emissions
OGHG Emissions Intensity
Q2020 TargetMillion Tonnes CO2e
GHG Intensity (Tonnes per Thousand BOE)0123456
05101520253035404550
2016 2017 2015 2014 20205.6
5.4
4.6
4.143
3635
3331
QU.S. 3,178
Q  Equatorial Guinea 628
Q  Denmark 201
Q  Malaysia 1402017 Operated Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
by Country (Scopes 1 and 2)
Thousand Tonnes CO2e
77%
15%
5%
3%42CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY
fuel combustion) and flaring accounted 
for 42 percent and 52 percent of our Scope 1 GHG emissions, respectively.
In 2017 our absolute GHG emissions 
decreased by 0.5 million tonnes compared to 2016, due primarily to reduced flaring in Equatorial Guinea related to a decline  in production.
Our GHG emissions intensity (i.e., tonnes 
of emissions per thousand barrels of oil equivalent (BOE)) decreased by 23 percent in 2017 versus our 2014 baseline. This cumulative improvement brings us close to achieving our 25 percent emissions intensity reduction target for 2020.
Equity Emissions (Scopes 1 and 2)
Since 2007 Hess has tracked GHG emissions from our operated and nonoperated oil and gas assets based on our equity interest. Between 2008 and 2017, we reduced our absolute equity GHG emissions by over 6 million tonnes, achieving a GHG emissions intensity of 37.5 tonnes per thousand BOE, primarily through a combination of improving operating practices, selling assets and shutting down refinery operations.
Our major source of emissions from 
nonoperated oil and gas assets in  2017 was the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area. Our equity emissions from this asset were approximately  1.3 million tonnes. Major sources of emissions from operated assets in 2017 included those from the Equatorial Guinea production asset and the Seminole Gas Plant (both now sold), as well as the North Dakota production asset and the Tioga Gas Plant, which altogether accounted  for an estimated 2.1 million tonnes of equity emissions. Our other operated  and nonoperated assets made up  the balance of equity emissions at an estimated 0.6 million tonnes.Scope 3 Emissions
Scope 3 GHG emissions are those generated from corporate value chain activities that are not accounted for and reported in our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. To assess our Scope 3 emissions, we use the Petroleum Industry Guidance for Corporate Value Chain Accounting methodology.
The Petroleum Industry Guidance 
is based on the World Resources Institute’s and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development’s GHG Protocol Scope 3 standard, which includes 15 categories of Scope 3 emissions. Only two of the Scope 3 emissions categories — Use of 
Products (emissions generated from 
our natural gas sales) and Processing of Sold Products (emissions generated from energy used to refine petroleum products) — are material to Hess.
The table at left details our Scope 3 
emissions. In 2017 we sold 503 million standard cubic feet per day (MMSCFD) of natural gas which, when burned by customers, accounted for an estimated 10.0 million tonnes of GHG emissions.  We sold 182 thousand barrels per day (MBPD) of crude oil, which, when processed by refiners, accounted for another 3.1 million tonnes of GHG emissions, for an estimated total of  13.1 million tonnes of Scope 3 emissions.
Although not material, we also track 
and report emissions associated with employee business travel. Combined emissions from employee business travel via commercial air carrier and rail in 2017 were about 4,600 tonnes of CO
2e, down 14 percent compared to last 
year, representing a continued effort by management to limit employee travel. As an element of our EHS & SR strategy, we have purchased carbon credits annually 2017 SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS
MILLION TONNES CO2e
Use of Sold Products 10.0
Processing of Sold Products 3.1
Total 13.1024681012
2017 2016 2015 2014 2008
QU.S. Virgin 
IslandsQU.S.MalaysiaQ
QThailandQIndonesia
QRussiaQAzerbaijanQLibyaQGhanaQGabon
QEquatorial
GuineaQAlgeriaQDenmarkQNorwayQU.K.10.8
6.0
5.5
4.24.0Equity Greenhouse Gas Emissions  
by Country
Million Tonnes CO2e
QNorth Dakota
QEquatorial Guinea
QOther
OFlaring Intensity
Q2020 TargetHess Flaring Rates
99 99
74
60
2014 2015 2016 2017 2020020406080100
050100150200250300
287
228
203
177
145Flaring (MMSCFD)
Flaring Intensity (SCF per BOE)43 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
since 2010 to offset at least 100 percent 
of business travel emissions. In 2017 we purchased 5,300 tonnes of carbon credits from First Climate Markets AG, for the retirement of offsets related to a landfill gas recovery project in Nebraska. This contribution more than offset the GHG emissions we estimate were generated from employee business travel.
EMISSION REDUCTION 
INITIATIVES 
In support of our GHG emission and 
flaring intensity reduction targets, we track and monitor air emissions at each of our assets and undertake a variety of emission reduction initiatives. Our efforts focus on our largest emitting facilities and on opportunities that are technically and economically feasible and where we are able to achieve stakeholder approval. In 2017 ongoing reduced oil and natural gas production related to the continued low price of oil again presented us with a reduced pool of emission reduction opportunities. We have, however, been able to continue achieving emission reductions through a number of ongoing programs. 
Flaring
In 2017 flaring from Hess-operated assets — which totaled 60 MMSCFD — was down 18 percent compared to 2016. On an intensity basis, we continued to make progress toward our 50 percent reduction target by reducing our cumulative flaring intensity by 38 percent through 2017, compared to our 2014 baseline. We expect to continue to make progress as a result of major stakeholder-approved initiatives in our Bakken asset in North Dakota.
Over $2.6 billion has been invested in 
midstream infrastructure in North Dakota between 2012 and 2017 to capture and monetize natural gas produced from our operations and minimize flaring. The processing capacity of the Tioga Gas 
Plant — 250 MMSCFD of natural gas and 2.5 million gallons per day of liquids — is helping us to achieve our reduction target by processing gas that was previously flared upstream. In addition, the new Hawkeye Gas Facility is operating as designed and is resulting in significantly reduced flaring in the region.
We anticipate that expansion of the 
Bakken midstream gas gathering infrastructure, including additional gas compression facilities and natural gas liquids (NGLs) and gas gathering lines, will continue into 2018. These midstream 
infrastructure projects will leave Hess well 
positioned to reduce flaring by 2020 in  line with our target.
Natural Gas Capture
Using technology developed through our partnership with GTUIT — a designer, manufacturer and operator of well site natural gas capture and NGL extraction equipment — we are recovering high-BTU (British thermal unit) gas from locations in North Dakota that were previously flaring this raw, rich natural gas. The GTUIT 
equipment successfully addresses some of the technical challenges associated with capturing NGLs from the Bakken gas — the units are modular and mobile, they can operate reliably unmanned and they can adapt to the ever-changing flow conditions of the well and the changing chemistry of the associated gas.
In 2017 we operated 15 of these mobile 
units, allowing us to capture 7 million gallons of NGLs. As a result, we avoided more than 470 MMSCF of gas flaring, reduced CO
2e emissions by an estimated 
43,600 tonnes and saved about 14,200 tonnes of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) from entering the atmosphere. We are planning to install additional mobile units in 2018, increasing our capacity by 4 MMSCFD. This project provides dual economic and environmental benefits, as it converts gas into marketable products as well as reduces the amount of gas flared and the associated air emissions. 
   See additional examples of emission reduction 
initiatives at hess.com/sustainability/climate-
change-energy/emission-reduction-initiatives   
Midstream Operations, North Dakota 44QDirect 
Q  Indirect05,00010,00015,00020,00025,00030,00035,00040,000
2017 2016 201536,14838,246
33,121Energy Use 
Thousand Gigajoules
QU.S.  25,387
QEquatorial Guinea  3,656
QDenmark  3,092
QMalaysia  98677%11%9%3%2017 Energy Use by Country
Thousand Gigajoules
QNatural Gas 21,248
QDiesel 4,58482%18%2017 Direct Energy Use by Fuel Source
Thousand GigajoulesCLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY
ENERGY USE
Reducing our energy use has the dual 
benefit of lowering costs and GHG emissions, and it is a central focus of both our EHS & SR strategy and our Lean approach to managing the business. We generate and purchase energy primarily for power, processing, heating and cooling. In 2017 energy consumption from Hess-operated assets was approximately  33 million gigajoules (GJ), 13 percent lower than in 2016. Seventy-eight percent of Hess’ energy use was directly generated from our operations, primarily at the Seminole and Tioga gas processing plants and at our production facilities in North Dakota, Denmark, Equatorial Guinea and the Gulf of Mexico. The remaining 22 percent was indirect energy (energy used by utilities to provide net purchased electricity) purchased for the West Texas and North Dakota production operations and the Seminole and Tioga gas processing plants.In 2017 our U.S. operations accounted 
for all of our purchased electricity — approximately 790,000 megawatt 
hours (MWh), or a 12 percent reduction 
from last year. This reduction is mainly attributable to the sale of our interests in the Permian Basin, including the Seminole Gas Plant. Based on U.S. electricity generation profiles, we estimate that approximately 19 percent of this electricity was generated from renewable sources, primarily wind power. We also support renewable energy through the purchase of renewable energy certificates (RECs) equivalent to at least 10 percent of the net electricity used in our operations. In 2017 we purchased 90,000 Green-e Energy certified RECs for wind power, equivalent to 90,000 MWh or about 11 percent of the electricity purchased for our operated exploration and production assets. In  total, including the RECs, approximately 30 percent of our indirect energy use came from renewable sources.
   See more detail on our purchased electricity use 
at hess.com/sustainability/climate-change-
energy/energy-use
Production Operations, North Dakota45 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTMANAGING METHANE EMISSIONS
The advancement in shale energy technology in recent years  
has resulted in an increased supply of abundant, low-cost natural 
gas. The clean-burning characteristics of natural gas can play  
a critical role in the transition toward a low-carbon economy. 
Although natural gas burns cleaner than other fuels, there is 
considerable debate about fugitive methane leakage along the 
natural gas value chain, which may have the potential to reduce 
its climate beneﬁts.
Stakeholder interest in this issue has continued in recent years, 
and in 2016 the U.S. EPA and the Bureau of Land Management 
ﬁnalized several regulations aimed at controlling fugitive 
methane and VOC emissions. However, those regulations are now 
subject to administrative reconsideration as well as litigation 
challenges. Industry maintains that these regulations are largely 
unnecessary, as methane emissions have decreased at a time of 
growth in natural gas production and because it is in industry’s 
best interest to monetize gas to generate additional revenue.
One element of our EHS & SR strategy has been to pursue 
voluntary reductions in methane emissions. As a result, Hess 
became a founding member of the ONE Future Coalition, a 
group of companies from across the natural gas industry 
focused on identifying policy and technical solutions that yield 
continuous improvement in the management of methane 
emissions associated with the production, processing, 
transportation and distribution of natural gas. ONE Future 
offers a performance-based, ﬂexible approach that is expected 
to yield signiﬁcant reductions in methane emissions. The goal  
is to voluntarily lower methane emissions to less than 1 percent 
of gross methane production across the value chain by 2025. 
Peer-reviewed analyses indicate that a leak/loss rate of  
1 percent or less across the natural gas value chain provides 
immediate GHG reduction beneﬁts.
To achieve this goal, ONE Future has established methane 
emission rate targets for each sector of the natural gas value 
chain: production (0.36 percent), processing (0.11 percent), 
transmission and storage (0.30 percent) and distribution  
(0.22 percent), which cumulatively total to the 1 percent target. 
Hess has activities in two sectors, production and processing. In 
2017 our methane emissions rate for production was 0.13 percent,  
and our emissions rate from processing was 0.14 percent. Our 
combined methane emissions rate from the production and 
processing sectors was 0.13 percent, which is well below the ONE 
Future combined target of 0.47 percent for those two sectors. 
In a related voluntary effort, in 2017 Hess became one of the 
initial participants in the American Petroleum Institute’s 
Environmental Partnership. A key activity of the Environmental 
Partnership is furthering action to reduce air emissions, including methane and VOCs, associated with natural gas and oil 
production. To accomplish this, the Environmental Partnership 
has developed three separate Environmental Performance 
Programs for participating companies to implement and phase 
into their operations starting January 1, 2018. Hess has agreed to 
implement all three programs, which are not required for 
participation in the Partnership. They include the following:1.  Leak Program for Natural Gas and Oil Production Sources:  
Participants will implement monitoring and timely repair of 
fugitive emissions at selected sites utilizing detection methods 
and technologies such as U.S. EPA Method 21 or optical gas 
imaging cameras.
2.  Program to Replace, Remove or Retroﬁt High-Bleed 
Pneumatic Controllers:  Participants will replace, remove  
or retroﬁt high-bleed pneumatic controllers with low- or 
zero-emitting devices within ﬁve years.
3.  Program for Manual Liquids Unloading for Natural Gas 
Production Sources:  Participants will minimize emissions 
associated with the removal of liquids that, as a well ages,  
can build up and restrict natural gas ﬂow.
In addition to these programs, the Environmental Partnership will 
provide a platform for industry to collaborate with stakeholders 
and learn from one another.
In order to meet both our ONE Future and Environmental 
Partnership commitments, we continued implementation of our 
leak detection and repair (LDAR) program across all of our 
production facilities (existing and new) in North Dakota and Ohio 
and at the gas plants in West Texas and North Dakota. 
   Further detail on our LDAR program is provided in the Environment section of 
this report and at hess.com/sustainability/environment 
0.56
0.36
0.13
Production0.19
0.110.14
Processing00.2
0.10.30.6
0.5
0.4
Upstream
(Production and Processing)0.130.47Methane Emissions Rate (ONE Future Protocol)*Methane Emissions Rate (%)
QNatural Gas Value Chain 2012
Q  Hess 2017
Q  ONE Future 2025 Target
* The methane emissions rate represents the ratio of methane emitted (in tonnes) to methane produced  
or processed (in tonnes) from U.S.-operated assets.Drilling Operations, North Dakota47 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSafeguarding the environment is a key 
aspect of the Hess Values, which set the framework for how we operate. Managing environmental impacts — including water and energy use, air emissions, waste and spills — is an important aspect of the work we do every day. We dedicate significant staff and resources to help ensure compliance with environmental laws and regulations, international standards and voluntary commitments. To track our environmental performance and drive improvement over time, we use key performance metrics — including several factored into our annual incentive plan — at the asset and enterprise levels.
Hess sponsors and actively participates 
in the Bakken Production Optimization Program — a research program led by the Energy and Environmental Research Center and funded by the North Dakota Industrial Commission — that aims to improve Bakken system oil recovery and reduce the environmental footprint of Bakken oil and gas operations. Through this program, Hess has supported research on issues such as TENORM (technologically enhanced naturally occurring radioactive material) disposal, flaring reduction and produced water and hydrocarbon spill remediation. We also voluntarily sponsor and participate in the Environmentally Friendly Drilling (EFD) program, a partnership among oil and gas companies, academia and environmental organizations and coordinated by the Houston Advanced Research Center that aims to develop science-based solutions to environmental issues associated with  oil and gas development.
WATER MANAGEMENT
Water management is one of our material issues and a key element of our environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy. Water is a critical resource for our onshore exploration and production operations, where it is used primarily for 
cooling purposes in both our upstream and midstream operations, as well as for drilling and completions, including hydraulic fracturing. We know water is also an important resource for the communities and ecosystems in which we operate. In some areas where we operate, our water use may be restricted by local limitations on water supply and disposal.
We are committed, throughout our 
operations, to evaluating and reducing our water footprint. In 2017 we continued development of our risk-based, lifecycle approach to managing water, as well as 
associated improvements to our water 
data collection process.
Our total freshwater use for exploration 
and production in 2017 was essentially flat compared with 2016. The Seminole Gas Plant in West Texas, which uses water primarily for process cooling, remained our largest single user of fresh water. The rate of freshwater use at the plant increased in 2017 because the facility resumed normal operational levels after experiencing downtime for various reasons in 2016. Due to the sale of our interests in the Permian Basin — including the Seminole Gas Plant — we expect our drilling and completions activities in North Dakota and Ohio to account for the majority of our freshwater use going forward. 
We are assessing a range of projects 
to reduce our freshwater use in North Dakota and Ohio, where it is primarily used for hydraulic fracturing. For example, we continue to use small quantities of brackish groundwater for reservoir management in North Dakota. In 2018 we will be ramping up activity levels in these regions, so we expect to see an increase in absolute water use in the short term. However, as our assets and operational profile continue to change, we are assessing the best ways to reduce water use impacts across our operations. Hess participates in two industry forums 
focused on water management to advance our own performance and contribute to industrywide knowledge-sharing and progress. First, we are active participants in the IPIECA Water Working Group, which aims to help companies improve their water use performance and reduce their water footprint by providing sound analysis, assessment tools, good practices, credible data sources and appropriate indicators. We are also members of the Energy Water Initiative, a collaborative effort among 18 oil and natural gas companies to study, describe and improve lifecycle water use and management in upstream 
QGroundwater
Q  Municipal Water
Q  Surface Water2017 2016 20158.9
7.6 7.7
0246810Freshwater Use
Million Cubic Meters
QSeminole Gas Plant 5,649
QNorth Dakota Drilling and Completions 1,302
QTioga Gas Plant 318
QAll Other Operations 38374%17%4%5%2017 Freshwater Use by  
Facility/Business Function*
Thousand Cubic MetersENVIRONMENT
* There was no freshwater use by Ohio Drilling and Completions in 2017 
as there was no drilling activity there during the year.48ENVIRONMENT
SHALE ENERGY
Advances in horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing have 
resulted in signiﬁcant and rapid growth in shale oil and gas 
development in the U.S. Hess has made signiﬁcant investments in 
two unconventional oil and gas plays — the Bakken Formation in 
North Dakota, one of the premier U.S. tight oil plays, and the Utica 
Formation in Ohio. Oil and gas from these plays constitute about 
44 percent of Hess’ total operated production.
We recognize that some stakeholders have concerns about the 
potential effects of shale energy operations on the environment, 
public health and safety. The practices we use are well established 
and, in most cases, have been employed in conventional oil and 
gas development for many years.
We aim to develop our resources responsibly and with minimal 
impact and, as discussed in the Social Responsibility section, we 
seek to identify and address stakeholder concerns to improve our 
performance and enhance our license to operate. All assets 
undergo several stages of detailed, activity-based risk 
assessments during the appraisal, capture, development and 
production phases. These multidisciplinary risk assessments allow 
us to identify mitigation measures we can pursue to help us 
protect the environment, the communities in which we operate 
and the safety of our workforce. Our enterprise risk management 
process, discussed in the How We Operate section, includes the 
identiﬁcation and ranking of environmental considerations as well 
as technical review and value assurance activities. We also 
perform numerous EHS audits on an annual basis.
Well Integrity
Whether for conventional or unconventional resource production, 
a key to protecting groundwater is well integrity — that is, working 
to ensure physical barriers between the wellbore and the 
surrounding rock and underground aquifers.
While hydraulic fracturing processes occur several thousand feet 
below the Earth’s surface, wellbores pass through groundwater-
bearing zones at shallower depths. Before designing or 
constructing any well, we investigate the depth and lateral extent 
of any underground fresh water so that the well can be drilled and 
completed in a way that protects groundwater resources and 
conforms to regulatory requirements and Hess standards.Certain U.S. state agencies require operators to design casing and 
cementing plans that will isolate any underground fresh water 
from the contents of the wellbore. Where applicable, we submit 
this information in applications for well construction permits, 
which must be reviewed and approved by regulators. Well designs 
can vary from asset to asset due to differences in the formation, 
the management of drilling risks and the application  
of technology.
To help ensure well integrity, our drilling process for new shale 
wells is to line wellbores with multiple layers of steel pipe encased 
in cement to depths well below the deepest freshwater zones. 
Speciﬁcally:
■   A surface casing is installed from the surface to below the lowest 
known freshwater zone and then cemented in that interval to 
isolate the freshwater zone, thereby creating a physical barrier 
between the materials in the well and the strata containing the 
groundwater being protected.
■   Inside the surface casing, another casing is installed and 
cemented in place, and an acoustic cement bond log is 
employed to conﬁrm that the cement barrier meets regulatory 
requirements, where applicable.
■   The well completion is performed through a ﬁnal casing (Ohio) or 
liner (North Dakota) placed inside the production or intermediate 
casing to the depth of the lateral. In North Dakota, a “frac string”  is then run and connected to the top of the liner. This provides  
an additional physical barrier to isolate ﬂuids within the well.
■   To prevent potential fracture stimulation interference — that 
is, stimulating one well and having it result in hydraulic 
communication in nearby wells — existing offset oil and gas wells are shut-in during fracturing activity. In addition, the 
wellhead systems in nearby wells are tested prior to being 
shut-in or additional equipment is installed on wellheads  
that can safely operate within proper distances.
■   During hydraulic fracturing, procedures are in place to  
operate surface and downhole equipment within their design 
parameters.
Induced seismicity from hydraulic fracturing or underground 
injection wells has not been an issue for our operations in North 
Dakota. In Ohio, regulators have implemented measures through 
the permitting process to address seismicity concerns in the state. 
Hess follows a monitoring methodology and an operational 
control process for performing hydraulic fracturing in areas  
of known faults or areas where previous seismic activity greater 
than 2.0 magnitude has occurred.
Well integrity continues to be an important issue for 
safeguarding the subsurface long after the construction and 
initial hydraulic fracturing has been completed. At the end  
of well life we follow similar measures to ensure the wells are 
permanently plugged and abandoned in compliance with Hess, 
regulatory and industry standards.
   See the expanded Shale Energy section at hess.com/sustainability/
environment/shale-energy
Bakken example. Drawing is not to scale.
Intermediate 
Casing
Cement
Surface CasingConductor Casing
Freshwater Aquifer
Frac String49 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTunconventional oil and natural gas 
exploration and production. In 2018 Hess will partner with the EFD program to review beneficial uses of produced water in shale energy operations.
BIODIVERSITY
We are committed to conserving biodiversity and habitats in the places where we operate. We consider the protection of biodiversity in our decision making and management from the earliest stages of exploration and development through production and closure at every Hess location around the globe.
We conduct formal environmental and 
social impact assessments (ESIAs) on major capital projects as part of site evaluation, selection and risk assessment. These ESIAs include biodiversity baseline studies as well as screenings of identified species using the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List and other threatened, endangered and protected species lists. We use the results of ESIAs to create mitigation strategies, where appropriate. Even where the conditions or circumstances do not call for a full ESIA, we still routinely conduct biodiversity risk screenings and impact assessments and undertake appropriate mitigation activities. In addition, we conduct assessments when the classification of species and habitats changes in areas where we operate.
As part of our goal to mature biodiversity 
management at Hess’ global assets, we have been developing threatened and endangered species field guides for personnel to use during field activities. We have completed guides for our Bakken and Utica assets, as well as our Permian asset (sold in 2017), with guides for other assets planned over the next few years.
We monitor the addition of new species to 
the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s national endangered and threatened species lists. In addition, we are identifying locations 
where we may need to conduct new biological risk assessments and develop mitigation plans as a result of these listings. Already, we have adjusted drilling site locations to accommodate habitat features and priorities for certain species.
Hess utilizes third-party software programs, 
such as the Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool, to identify protected areas and key biodiversity areas as well as specific species listings. We maintain a list of IUCN Red List species with habitats that overlap with our operations. (See table below, which provides a snapshot of relevant species at the time of publication of this report.) The IUCN updates the Red List species classifications regularly based on new information and improved data 
from ongoing third-party studies, and we 
update our species list accordingly.
 IUCN RED LIST SPECIES
CATEGORY SPECIES (COUNT)
Critically Endangered 22
Endangered 61
Vulnerable 240
Near Threatened 258
We also identify IUCN protected areas 
(categories I-III) adjacent to our operations. In 2017 there were two such areas, both in North Dakota (Lostwood Wilderness Area and Theodore Roosevelt National Park).
We regularly work with our industry 
peers on biodiversity-related issues. For example, we are an active member of the Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services Working Group of IPIECA. We also participate in the Endangered Species Working Group of the American Petroleum Institute (API) to discuss oil and gas development with the goal of proactively balancing development with environmental decision making that aims to minimize biodiversity impacts.We also participate in the Cross-Sector 
Biodiversity Initiative, a partnership of IPIECA, the International Council on Mining and Metals and the Equator Principles Association. This initiative brings the mining, oil and gas and financial sectors together to develop and share good practices for safeguarding biodiversity and ecosystems. 
WASTE
We generate a variety of waste streams, including waste specific to drilling and production activities. For each Hess asset, we manage waste through specific waste management plans designed to comply with all applicable regulatory and Hess requirements for that location, as well as protect human health and the environment. These plans, which are developed to align with the Hess Waste Management Standard, require application of our waste minimization principles of “Remove, Reduce, Reuse, Recycle, Recover, Treat and Dispose” — with disposal being the least-preferred option.
In 2017 we generated approximately 
157,000 tonnes of solid waste, more than 98 percent of which was classified as nonhazardous according to applicable regulations. Our overall waste generation volume was higher in 2017 compared to 2016 due to an increase in asset retirement obligations.
We also disposed of approximately 
39,700 tonnes of drill cuttings from our North Dakota asset at licensed disposal sites in 2017. These drill cuttings, as well as the discharges from our offshore facilities (discussed in the next section), are not included in our overall waste totals per IPIECA reporting guidance.
We have continued our efforts to 
reduce landfilled piping waste by decontaminating it (i.e., removing the TENORM) and recycling it instead.   50ENVIRONMENT
In 2017 we recycled 3,561 tonnes of 
nonhazardous piping waste in North Dakota due to these efforts. 
DISCHARGES FROM OFFSHORE 
FACILITIES
Discharges from our offshore facilities 
include drilling mud, drill cuttings and produced water. These waste streams are either reinjected for disposal or reservoir management, discharged directly to the ocean (when allowed by applicable regulations) or transported to shore for treatment and disposal or recycling.
In 2017 our offshore facilities discharged 
to sea approximately 6,700 tonnes of nonaqueous drilling mud and cuttings, which included 600 tonnes of nonaqueous base fluid.
Offshore produced water discharges 
to sea totaled an estimated 5.7 million cubic meters in 2017. Produced water discharges had an average oil content of 17 parts per million volume (PPMV), totaling 70 tonnes of oil discharged. This data reflects a decrease in both the concentration and total oil discharged compared to 2016.
SPILL PREVENTION
Hess maintains spill preparedness and response plans and conducts emergency response exercises at each of our assets. To support a swift and effective response to any loss of primary containment (LOPC) incident, we maintain strong relationships with mutual aid and emergency response organizations at the local, regional and global levels. Hess’ international oil spill response needs are supported by our partnership with Oil Spill Response Limited (OSRL), an international, industry-funded cooperative that responds to oil spills globally. Our domestic needs are supported by Marine Spill Response Corporation, Clean Gulf Associates, Sakakawea Area Spill Response Mutual Aid, Tri-State Bird Rescue and Research, Control Risks and International SOS. Hess representatives 
serve on the board of directors of the OSRL and on the executive committee  of Clean Gulf Associates, a not-for-profit  oil spill cooperative that supports the Gulf of Mexico.
Our international subsea preparedness and 
response capabilities are supported by the Subsea Well Intervention Service and Wild Well Control. In the Gulf of Mexico, we are members and serve on the executive committee of the Marine Well Containment Company. These organizations provide well capping, containment and dispersant capabilities as well as equipment and personnel mutual aid.
We are also active members of the Oil 
Spill Response Joint Industry Project organized by IPIECA and the International 
Association of Oil and Gas Producers. 
Hess also participates in several of the API’s preparedness and response efforts, including serving as the chair of the Oil Spill Emergency Preparedness and Response Subcommittee, the Pandemic Planning Working Group and the Oil-Rail Emergency Response Joint Working Group. We also contribute to the IPIECA Oil Spill Working Group in support of our international businesses.
We track LOPC events through our incident 
reporting system by size and material and report spills following applicable industry and regulatory guidance. We also use leading and lagging indicators to monitor LOPC performance, including continuing  to tie LOPC performance to our annual incentive plan.
Hess continues to have a trend of year-
over-year reductions in overall (hydrocarbon and nonhydrocarbon combined) spills. In 2017 our number of hydrocarbon spills increased slightly, but the volume of spills decreased. The number and volume of nonhydrocarbon spills decreased in 2017 compared to 2016. Our overall decrease 
Hydrocarbon Spills
QVolume of Spills
ONumber of Spills5,130
98466
62685 86
2015 2016 201701,0002,0003,0004,0005,0006,000
020406080100120140160180200Volume of Spills (Barrels)
Number of SpillsOil in Produced Water Discharges to Sea
87
18177081
15
2015 2016 20170102030405060708090
051015202530Oil Mass in Produced Water (Tonnes)
Oil Concentration in Produced Water (PPMV)
OOil Mass in Produced Water (Tonnes)
OOil Concentration in Produced Water  (PPMV)
Nonhydrocarbon Spills
QVolume of Spills
ONumber of Spills2,66720,131
127
60061
27
2015 2016 2017020406080100120140160180200
05,00010,00015,00020,00025,000Volume of Spills (Barrels)
Number of Spills51 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTin 2017 can be attributed in part to a 
reduction in activity during the year and an increased focus on improvement. We realize that in order to maintain this positive trend, we will have to remain diligent in our spill prevention efforts as activity continues to ramp up in 2018.
We have been working to implement a 
range of programs to continue our focus on spill prevention. To address spills that result from corrosion and integrity issues, for example, we continue to enhance our inspection and surveillance programs, upgrade external corrosion protection and use of corrosion inhibitors, and replace or redesign pipes. We have also continued to expand spill-related worksite controls, such as fluid transfer checklists, and spill prevention training. The process safety assessment completed in 2017 and the asset integrity assessments we have been pursuing (see the Safety and Health section) should also help to drive improved LOPC performance. 
AIR EMISSIONS
The normal operation of fuel combustion and processing equipment as well as flaring activities results in air emissions of nitrogen oxides (NO
X), sulfur dioxide (SO 2) 
and volatile organic compounds (VOCs). Fugitive emission sources, including those related to product loading and storage, also can contribute to VOC emissions.
In 2017 our normalized emissions of 
VOCs and NO
X increased compared to 
2016.The upward trend in VOC emissions intensity may be attributable to the initial quantification of VOC leaks as determined by our newly implemented leak detection and repair (LDAR) program for upstream facilities in the Bakken. The upward trend in NO
X emissions intensity is attributable 
in part to a continued increase in drilling activity — and the associated increase in the use of diesel-powered equipment — at Hess assets in the Gulf of Mexico and the North Malay Basin.We observed a decrease in normalized SO
2 
emissions for 2017, mainly due to reduced flaring at the Seminole Gas Plant (which had experienced a number of operational upset events leading to incr eased SO
2 emissions 
in recent years) and the Tubular Bells Field (which was being commissioned in 2016 and therefore had relatively higher flaring and lower production d uring that year).
REGULATORY COMPLIANCE 
AND LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
Hess, as well as a number of other 
Bakken operators, entered into a Consent Decree with the North Dakota Department of Health (NDDoH) in 2017 resolving alleged noncompliance with state air pollution laws and provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. Hess helped lead the consultative process within the industry, which was foundational for individual company discussions with the NDDoH.
The majority of our expenditures on 
environmental fines and penalties in 2017 — $798,850 of the total $841,600 — were the result of this agreement. We worked quickly to make our operations compliant with the agreement, and the amount paid represents a reduced penalty based on our meeting compliance dates within the Consent Decree. Other expenditures were related to various alleged offshore violations ($32,750) and an alleged water discharge permit exceedance at a remediation system within our discontinued operations ($10,000). 
As mentioned in the Climate Change 
and Energy section, we have established an LDAR program across all of our U.S. operations as a way to achieve reductions as part of our ONE Future and API Environmental Partnership commitments, in addition to complying with the Consent Decree in North Dakota. 
   For a detailed description of our LDAR program 
visit hess.com/sustainability/environment
 Strengthening our regulatory assurance 
program is one of the six components of our EHS & SR strategy. Internal assurance also helps us to ensure the effectiveness of our management systems. As part of our long-term compliance strategy, our regulatory team continued to expand the use of a compliance tracking tool at our U.S. assets in 2017. Key enhancements to our compliance tool in 2017 included the addition of a mobile application for field assurance personnel and synchronization with our work order system. We are already seeing benefits from this enhancement in North Dakota, where we have decreased the turnaround time for repairs identified through LDAR inspections. We have also formalized the process for assigning work material flows to field personnel — with the goal of increasing accountability and efficiency of any repairs that are needed.
In addition, we are working through the 
API’s Pipeline Safety Management System group to implement API Recommended Practice 1173, which is related to pipeline safety management systems. A key aspect of our commitment to this initiative is the evaluation and enhancement of our integrity management systems pertaining to pipelines.OSO 2 Intensity O  NO X Intensity O  VOC IntensityAir Emissions
020406080100
83.1
23.628.6
24.172.877.2102.1
71.186.4
2015 2016 2017Emissions (Tonnes per Million BOE)52UNITS 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013
BUSINESS PERFORMANCE
Sales and other operating revenue $ Million 5,466 4,762 6,636 1 0,737 11,905
Net income (loss) attributable to Hess Corporation $ Million (4,074) (6,132) (3,056) 2,317 5,052
Total assets $ Million 23,112 28,621 34,157 38,372 42,482
Total debt $ Million 6,977 6,806 6,592 5,952 5,765Stockholders ’ equity $ Million 12,354 15,591 20,401 22,320 24,784
Debt to capitalization ratio % 36.1 30.4 24.4 21.2 19.0
EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION
Total net hydrocarbons produced Thousand BOE/D 306 322 375 329 336Proved reserves (total) Million BOE 1,154 1,109 1,086 1,431 1,437
       Liquids (crude oil (light and medium oils),  
condensate & natural gas liquids) % 72 74 76 78 77
      Gas % 28 26 24 22 23Reserve life Years 10 9 8 12 12Replaced production % 351 119 NM 158 118
ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTIONS
Capital and exploration expenditures $ Million 2,168 2,154 4,338 5,606 6,209Income tax expense/(beneﬁt) $ Million (1,837) 2,222 (1,299) 744 565Royalties and other payments to governments $ Million 379 330 457 707 807Cash dividends paid to shareholders $ Million 363 350 287 303 235
Employee wages and beneﬁts (U.S.) $ Million 603 707 791 1,040 1,037Interest expense before income taxes $ Million 325 338 341 323 406
Operating costs $/BOE 14 16 15 17 17Supplier spend (approximate) $ Billion 5 6 7 8 8
SOCIAL PERFORMANCE
Total social investment $ Million 16 20 22 42 37Education % 54 82 83 80 52
Health % 1 <1 1 1 2
Disaster relief % 8 1 <1 2 3
Community contributions (not in-kind) % 27 15 14 13 25In-kind % 2 1 <1 4 12Civic and employee % <1 1 0 <1 0Arts and culture % 1 <1 1 <1 6
Environment % 6 1 <1 <1 <1
OUR PEOPLE
Number of permanent employees # 2,075 2,304 2,770 3,039 12,128U.S. % 85 83 79 78 91International % 15 17 21 22 9Part-time employees % 0 0 0 1 27Full-time employees % 100 100 100 99 73
Employee turnover – voluntary 
¤ % 5559 1 3
Employee layoffs ¤ % 13 18 8 20 15
Female employees (U.S. and international) % 28 27 27 28 43Minority employees (U.S.) % 23 25 24 24 39Employees represented by collective bargaining agreements % 2 2 3 1 4
SAFETY PERFORMANCE
Fatalities – workforce (employees + contractors) # 00000
Hours worked – workforce Million hours 20.8 21.7 28.6 37.8 47.1
Employee total recordable incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.09 0.10 0.24 0.20 0.20Contractor total recordable incident rate* Per 200,000 hours worked 0.31 0.50 0.39 0.45 0.60Workforce total recordable incident rate* Per 200,000 hours worked 0.24 0.39 0.36 0.40 0.52Employee lost time incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.03 0.06 0.03 0.00 0.05
Contractor lost time incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.10 0.15 0.10 0.14 0.16Workforce lost time incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.08 0.13 0.08 0.12 0.14
Employee occupational illness rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.06 0.00 0.09 0.00 0.02
Contractor occupational illness rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.08 0.14 0.25 0.24 0.13Workforce occupational illness rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.08 0.10 0.21 0.20 0.11Products with Safety Data Sheets % 100 100 100 100 100
Where relevant, all data are restated to exclude joint ventures and the downstream businesses. See Approach to Reporting for de tails.
NM: Not meaningful. ¤ The values for 2015 and 2016 voluntary employee turnover and employee layoffs have been updated from those stated in our 2016 S ustainability Report to address 
discrepancies noted during a recent review of the data.* The 2016 total recordable incident rates for contractors and workforce have been revised from those stated in our 2016 Sustai nability Report to reﬂect the removal of a medical 
treatment case, which was determined to be non-Hess-related.PERFORMANCE DATA53 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTUNITS 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
Volume of ﬂared and vented hydrocarbons MMSCF 22,009 26,991 36,121 35,987 29,356
Operated direct emissions (Scope 1) Million tonnes CO 2e 3.7 4.1 5.1 4.8 4.4
    CO 2 Million tonnes CO 2e 3.4 3.7 4.7 4.4 4.2
    CH 4 Thousand tonnes CO 2e 313.4 296.9 403.7 403.1 166.5
    N 2O Thousand tonnes CO 2e 2.7 2.3 2.7 28.4 31.1
Operated direct emissions (Scope 1) by source 
Flaring/venting % 52 52 63 61 54Fuel combustion % 42 43 33 35 41
Other % 6 5 4 3 5
Operated indirect emissions (Scope 2) Million tonnes CO
2e 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.6 0.8
    CO 2 Million tonnes CO 2e 0.4 0.5 0.5 0.6 0.8
    CH 4 Thousand tonnes CO 2e 0.9 0.2 0.2 0.3 nil
    N 2O Thousand tonnes CO 2e 1.9 2.4 2.4 2.7 3.1
Equity GHG emissions (includes HOVENSA) Million tonnes CO 2e 4.0 4.2 5.5 6.0 6.6
Scope 3 emissions – use of sold products Million tonnes CO 2e 10.0 9.1 9.7 11.5 13.9
ENERGY USE
Production energy intensity ◊ Gigajoules/BOE 0.27 0.29 0.23 0.23 0.25
Operated direct energy use Thousand gigajoules 25,831 29,973 27,506 25,829 26,421Operated indirect energy use (gross) Thousand gigajoules 7,290 8,273 8,642 8,597 7,429Net purchased electricity by primary energy source** Thousand MWh 790 896 936 865 688
Green-e certiﬁed renewable energy certiﬁcates (wind power) Thousand MWh 90 100 135 125 140
FRESHWATER USE
Groundwater Million cubic meters 5.6 5.7 6.0 6.2 6.3
Municipal water Million cubic meters 1.2 0.6 1.2 1.9 3.8Surface water Million cubic meters 0.8 1.2 1.7 2.2 0.5Reused/recycled (estimated) % 7.7 14.5 12.0 9.0 8.0
SOLID WASTE
Nonhazardous Thousand tonnes 154.4 92.5 252.5 118.8 144.2Hazardous Thousand tonnes 2.6 0.9 0.4 1.1 3.6
Basel Convention (recovery/reuse/recycle) Tonnes 0000 2 2
LIQUID WASTE†
Nonhazardous waste Thousand cubic meters 48.28 73.05 7,275.07 5,295.63 2.22
Hazardous waste Thousand cubic meters 0.00 10.52 18.44 0.50 0.00
SPILLS
Hydrocarbon spills – number # 85 66 86 116 110
Hydrocarbon spills – volume Barrels 626 984 5,130 1,448 1,090
Nonhydrocarbon spills – number # 27 61 127 103 99
Nonhydrocarbon spills – volume Barrels 600 2,667 20,131 2,813 2,786
AIR EMISSIONS (EXCLUDES GHGS) ◊
Sulfur dioxide (SO 2) Tonnes 2,987 3,804 3,727 2,016 2,888
SO 2 intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 24.1 28.6 23.6 13.7 21.7
Nitrogen oxides (NO x) Tonnes 12,665 10,261 11,515 9,595 10,270
NO x intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 102.1 77.2 72.8 65.2 77.2
Volatile organic compounds (VOC) Tonnes 10,724 9,441 13,133 13,288 12,279VOC intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 86.4 71.1 83.1 90.3 92.3
EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION DISCHARGES
Oil in produced water to sea Tonnes 70 87 81 70 136
Oil in produced water to sea PPMV 17 18 15 14 10
Produced water to sea Million cubic meters 5.7 6.4 6.5 6.0 16.7
OTHER ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS
ISO 14001-certiﬁed operations % of production 5 6 5 7 2ISO 14001-certiﬁed operations # 1 1 1 2 2
Environmental ﬁnes and penalties – operated $ Thousand 842 24 25 84 509Environmental expenditures – remediation $ Million 15 10 13 12 16
Environmental reserve $ Million 80 80 80 80 65
Where relevant, all data are restated to exclude joint ventures and the downstream businesses. See Approach to Reporting for de tails.
9 The annual gross operated hydrocarbon production (normalization factor) for 2017 was 124,064,440 BOE.
** Third-party power generation.† Historical waste data have been restated to separately report solid and liquid waste where possible. Liquid waste totals incl ude wastewater treatment. Liquid waste totals  
for 2014–2017 include deep well disposal. Deep well disposal for 2013 is included in the landﬁll category and cannot be separat ed out.54ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was engaged by Hess Corporation (Hess) to provide assurance on the 2017 
Sustainability Report (the Report).  
ENGAGEMENT SUMMARY
Scope: Whether the Report is fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria.
Reporting Criteria: The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards 2016 (Core option).
Assurance Standard: ERM CVS’s assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised).
Assurance Level: Limited assurance.
Respective Responsibilities: ■  Hess is responsible for preparing the Report and for its correct presentation, including disclosure of the reporting 
criteria and boundary.  
■  ERM CVS’s responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities 
performed and exercising our professional judgment. 
OUR CONCLUSIONS
Based on our activities, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the Report is not fairly presented, in all material  respects, in accordance 
with the GRI Standards 2016 (Core option).
OUR ASSURANCE ACTIVITIES
We planned and performed our work to obtain all the information and explanations that we believe were necessary to provide a ba sis for our 
assurance conclusion. 
A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and assurance specialists performed the following activities:   
■    A review of external media reporting relating to Hess to identify relevant sustainability issues in the reporting period.
■    Interviews with relevant staff to understand Hess’ sustainability strategy, policies and management systems.
■    Interviews with relevant staff to understand and evaluate the data management systems and processes (including IT systems and i nternal review 
processes) used for collecting and reporting the information.
■    A site visit to Hess’ asset in the North Malay Basin, offshore Malaysia, as well as a remote verification of Hess’ production op erations in  
North Dakota, to verify the source data for the assets’ sustainability performance indicators for 2017 and to review sustainabi lity management 
implementation at the asset level.
■    An analytical review of the 2017 data for the sustainability performance indicators from all assets and a check on the complete ness and accuracy  
of the data consolidation at the Hess corporate level.
■    A visit to Hess’ head office in Houston, Texas, to review the consolidation process and the results of the internal data validat ion process, and to 
conduct interviews with subject matter experts regarding the content of the Report.
■    A review of samples of documentary evidence, including internal and external documents, relating to the assertions made regardi ng 2017 
sustainability performance and activities in the Report.
■    A review of selected evidence related to the design, information collection and production of the Report in accordance with GRI  requirements.
■    A review of the presentation of information relevant to the scope of our work in the Report to ensure consistency with our findi ngs.
THE LIMITATIONS OF OUR ENGAGEMENT
The reliability of the assured data is subject to inherent uncertainties, given the available methods for determining, calculat ing or estimating the 
underlying information. It is important to understand our assurance conclusions in this context. 
OUR OBSERVATIONS
We have provided Hess with a separate detailed management report including our observations.
Jennifer Iansen-Rogers Head of Corporate Assurance22 June 2018
ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that ERM CVS conducts for clients is solely related to independent assurance act ivities and auditor training. Our processes 
are designed and implemented to ensure that the work we undertake with clients is free from bias and conﬂict of interest. ERM C VS and the staff who have undertaken this 
engagement work have provided no consultancy-related services to Hess in any respect.ERM Certification and Verification Services Inc., Atlanta 
www.ermcvs.com
Email: post@ermcvs.com
 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT55 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTMEMBERSHIPS AND ASSOCIATIONS
REQUESTS FOR INFORMATIONSPECIAL NOTE REGARDING 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTSSUSTAINABILITY
■ CDP Climate Change leadership status for
ninth consecutive year
■
 Dow Jones Sustainability Index NorthAmerica for eighth consecutive year
■
 Corporate Responsibility Magazine’
s
100 Best Corporate Citizens for tenthconsecutive year– Leading independent oil and gas company
■
  Corporate Knights’ Global 100 MostSustainable Corporations for the thir
d time
■
  Thomson Reuters T
op 100 Global
Energy Leader■   STOXX Global ESG Leaders Index for fifthconsecutive year
■
 MSCI ESG Indexes for sixth consecutive year– MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes– MSCI SRI Indexes– MSCI KLD 400 Social Index
■
 The Rocky Mountain Oil and Gas A
ward
for Excellence in Health and Safety
■
 Excellent MPM A
ward for Safety, Health
& Environment
■
  American Petr
oleum Institute
■
 Center for Of
fshore Safety
■
 Center for Strategic and Inter
national
Studies
■
 Council on For
eign Relations■
 Extractive Industries T
ransparency Initiative
■
 Independent Petr
oleum Association
of America
■
 Inter
national Association of Oil and
Gas Producers
For copies of our Environment, Health and Safety Policy, Social 
Responsibility Policy or Human Rights Policy, or for more information regarding our operations, please visit our website at hess.com.
We invite your questions, comments and suggestions regarding this 
report. To send us your questions or comments, or to request more information or additional copies of this report, please contact:
Vice President,  
Environment, Health and Safety 
Hess Corporation  
1501 McKinney Street  
Houston, TX 77010
You can also send us an email at sustainability@hess.com.This report contains projections, future estimates, plans, 
expectations and other forward-looking statements, including information about sustainability goals and targets and planned social, safety and environmental policies, programs and initiatives. These statements reflect the company’s current views with respect to future events and the company’s performance. No assurance can be given that the development or continuation of any policy, program or initiative expressed in any forward-looking statement will be achieved, and actual results could differ materially from those expected for a number of reasons, including risk factors affecting  the company’s business. A discussion of these risk factors  is included in the company’s annual report of Form 10-K filed  with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Sandy Alexander Inc., an ISO 14001:2004 certified 
printer with Forest Stewardship Council™ (FSC®) Chain of Custody, printed the Hess Sustainability Report with the use of renewable wind power resulting in nearly zero carbon emissions. This report was printed on FSC®-certified Mohawk Options paper, a process-chlorine-free 100 percent post-consumer waste (PCW) paper manufactured entirely with 100 percent certified wind energy and containing 100 percent post-consumer recycled fiber.■  IPIECA
■
 Oil Gas Denmark
■
 National Petr
oleum Council
■
 U.S. Chamber of Commer
ceWORKFORCE
■
 W
oman Engineer magazine’s Top 50
Employers
■
 W
orkforce Diversity magazine’s Top 50
Employers
■
 Hispanic Network
 magazine’s Best
of the Best Employers
■
 Black EOE Jour
nal’s Best of the Best
Employers
■
 Car
eers and the disABLED magazine’s
Top 50 EmployersDesign: incdesign.comThe savings below are achieved when PCW  
recycled fiber is used in place of virgin fiber: 
73 trees preserved for the future
5 pounds of water pollutants not created34,217 gallons of water saved6,309 pounds of net greenhouse gases 
(GHGs) prevented
33 million British thermal units of energy  
not consumedSavings from the use of emission-free 
wind-generated electricity:
5,307 pounds of GHG emissions not generated
Displaces this amount of fossil fuel:
2.65 barrels of natural oil unused
In other words your savings from the use of  
wind-generated electricity are equivalent to:
2,720 miles not driven
30 trees plantedAWARDS AND RECOGNITIONSOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
A review of social responsibility as a way of doing business
www.hess.com/sustainability/social-
responsibility
CLIMATE CHANGE 
AND ENERGY
Balancing the world’s growing energy needs with cost-effective greenhouse gas emissions reduction policy
www.hess.com/sustainability/climate-
change-energySAFETY AND HEALTH
Aiming to get everyone, everywhere, every day, home safe
www.hess.com/sustainability/safety-health
ENVIRONMENTResponsible management of our environmental footprint
www.hess.com/sustainability/environmentOUR PEOPLECreating a company culture and  
high-quality workforce that innovates, leads and learns
www.hess.com/careers/life-at-hess
GRI CONTENT INDEXPerformance against GRI Standards indicators
www.hess.com/sustainability/
sustainability-reports/GRI-Index
www.hess.com
LEARN MORE AT  
 WWW.HESS.COM/SUSTAINABILITY2017 Sustainability Report