2006 Corporate Sustainability ReportSCOPE OF REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1 Message From the Chairman
2 Our Company4 2006 At A Glance7 How We Operate13 Review of Operations17 Safety Performance 23 Environmental Performance33 Global Workforce37 Community & Social Performance40 Global Compact and GRI Indexes42 Verification StatementThis report covers the principal facilities and assets operated by Hess Corporation (formerly Amerada Hess Corporation)
and its subsidiaries during calendar year 2006. 
Emission data and other environmental metrics refer to gross figures from operated facilities. Data and information 
concerning contracted activities are included where contracts dictate that Hess has overall responsibility for those operations. In order to make representative comparisons year on year we also report emissions as a normalized rate basedon operated production and throughput.  For copies of the data referred to in this report in tabular format, please visit our web based report 
/pc.
This report does not include environment, health, safety or social responsibility data on operations in which the company
has an equity interest but which are operated by other companies. In addition, it does not include data on those joint venture companies, for example the HOVENSA Refinery in the United States Virgin Islands or the Joint Development Areain Malaysia/Thailand where we have a significant financial interest but not direct operational control (some data pertainingto HOVENSA are available in the tables in our web based report 
/pc). Data from our recently acquired assets in Russia 
are not included in this report.
The format of this report follows the guidelines issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and also the framework of
the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA) and the American Petroleum Institute(API) Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Sustainability Reporting. Gaps may exist where reporting requirements are notapplicable or where Hess does not currently collect data.
Note: Following a review by ERMCVS, our external verifier, 
Hess is self-declaring a GRI Application level of B+ in conformancewith the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.
/pcwww.hess.com2002
In Accordance CC + BB + AA +
Third
Party
CheckedSelf
Declared
Report Externally A ssured
Report Externally A ssured
Report Externally A ssured
GRI
CheckedOptional MandatoryReport Application LevelsIn 2006 we continued to make progress in executing our
strategy to increase shareholder value on a sustainablebasis. Our challenge is to help meet the increasing world-wide demand for energy while managing our operations in a responsible manner that protects the environment,the health and safety of our stakeholders and has a positiveimpact on the communities where we operate. We areguided by our long established values that provide aframework for responsible policies and practices.
Throughout the year we maintained our strategic focus 
on growing reserves and production. Our year end proved reserves grew by 14 percent and we replaced 232 percent of production. We brought four new fielddevelopments into production, including our companyoperated Okume Complex in Equatorial Guinea and PhuHorm Project in Thailand and made a significant discoveryat our Pony prospect in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. 
In Marketing and Refining we generated solid financial
results and continued the selective expansion of ourRetail and Energy Marketing businesses. Our refineriescontinued to operate reliably and we successfully completed low sulfur fuel projects at both Port Readingand our HOVENSA joint venture refinery.
As we continue to make major investments to grow our
hydrocarbon reserves, we are also implementing standardsand systems that support our goals of improving ourenvironment, health, safety and social responsibility 
performance. We have put in place a new process toaddress and mitigate our greenhouse gas emissions andhave developed appropriate reporting tools to measure
our performance.
In 2006 we continued to improve our safety performance
and achieved a 13 percent reduction in recordable injuriesfrom the previous year. We are especially pleased that2006 represented the second consecutive year with nowork related fatalities. We are committed to further improving our safety performance and are developingnew safety initiatives and programs. 
We remain committed to having a positive impact on the
communities where we operate. In Equatorial Guinea, we joined with the government in a $40 million program tosupport education in the country. As part of this program,Hess will contribute $20 million over the next five years to help strengthen the education system for children fromages 6 to 18. 
We have significantly revised this annual report to align
with the latest global reporting guidelines and provide a comprehensive overview of our performance and commitment to our stakeholders. We are proud of theprogress we have made and remain confident that we are building a sustainable enterprise for future growth. MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN
JOHN B. HESS
Chairman of the Board andChief Executive Officer
JOHN B. HESS
Chairman of the Board andChief Executive OfficerOUR COMPANY
2
Hess Corporation, with headquarters in New York, is a global integrated 
energy company engaged in the exploration for and the development, production, purchase, transportation and sale of crude oil and natural gas.The company also manufactures, purchases, transports, trades and marketsrefined petroleum and other energy products.
We are committed to meeting the highest standards of corporate citizenship
by protecting the health and safety of our employees, safeguarding the environment and creating a long lasting, positive impact on the communitiesin which we do business.
EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION
In Exploration and Production, we are making the substantial investments togrow reserves and production on a sustainable basis. Our worldwide oil and gas production averaged 359,000 barrels of oil equivalent (BOE) per dayand our proved reserves grew to 1.24 billion BOE with a reserve life of 9.3years. We have built a strong organization with the technical capabilities thatenable us to undertake the world class challenges of developing crude oiland natural gas resources around the globe. Exploration and productionactivities account for nearly 80% of capital employed and over 95% ofannual capital expenditures. The company has operations in the UnitedStates, United Kingdom, Norway, Denmark, Russia, Equatorial Guinea,Egypt, Algeria, Gabon, Azerbaijan, Libya, Malaysia, Thailand and Indonesia. 
Our company holds one of the largest exploration portfolios in the deepwater
Gulf of Mexico with over 400 blocks covering approximately 1.5 million net acres. This area continues to be our most active for exploration. Our international exploration portfolio continued to grow in 2006, with the
acquisition of new licenses in Egypt, Ghana, Norway, Ireland, Russia, Brazil and Peru. We also acquired new seismic data in Libya, Egypt, Braziland Norway.
MARKETING & REFINING
In Marketing and Refining, we are delivering strong financial performancegenerating near term earnings and free cash flow. Hess is the leading independent gasoline convenience store marketer on the East Coast with1,350 Hess branded retail locations. We continue to expand our HESSEXPRESS convenience store network. Our Energy Marketing businessachieved increased sales of natural gas and electricity to utilities and other industrial and commercial customers. The company operates a networkof 22 terminals strategically located to support our marketing operations and a fluid catalytic cracking (FCC) unit in Port Reading, New Jersey. The company also has a 50 percent interest in the HOVENSA Refinery in the United States Virgin Islands. HESS OPERATED
LOCATIONS
North Dakota
Largest gas producer and thethird largest oil producer inNorth Dakota. 
West Texas
Seminole-San Andres Unit,recognized as one of the most successful tertiaryrecovery projects.
Gulf Coast
Sea Robin Gas Plant resumedoperation in March 2006 afterdamage from Hurricane Rita.
Gulf of Mexico
We hold one of the largest exploration portfolios in thedeepwater Gulf of Mexicocovering 1.5 million net acres.Notable exploration successesin 2006, including Pony.
Retail Marketing
Convenience store annual revenues, excluding petroleumproducts, exceeded $1 billion,for the first time.Energy Marketing
Supplies natural gas, electricityand fuel oil to commercial and industrial customers onthe East Coast of the UnitedStates.
Terminals
Upgraded during 2006 to handle ultra-low sulfur diesel,as well as ethanol blendingcapability in Northeast markets.
Port Reading, New Jersey
Refining Facility operated reliably throughout 2006.Successfully completed lowsulfur gasoline project.
Equatorial Guinea
The Okume Complex development commencedproduction in December 2006. 
UK North Sea
The Atlantic and Cromartynatural gas fields came onstream in 2006. 
Denmark
The South Arne Facility is the largest single producer of oil and gas in Denmark. Algeria
Gassi El Agreb Fields continuedwork on the Gas Compressionand Reinjection Project. 
Egypt
Acquired a working interest inthe deepwater section of theWest Mediterranean Block 1Concession.
Thailand
The Phu Horm Field was completed within 18 monthsof project sanction and commenced gas production.
Indonesia
Development of the UjungPangkah Field continued andwe expect to commence pro-duction of natural gas in 2007. 
Russia
Oil production in the Samararegion of Russia continued toincrease during 2006.
NON-OPERATED &
JOINT VENTURELOCATIONS
U.S. Virgin Islands
HOVENSA is one of theworld’s largest crude oilrefineries. C ompleted low 
sulfur diesel project in 2006.Norway
The Valhall Field is one of our most significant assets producing approximately28,000 BOE per day.
Libya
We reentered our former oil and gas production operations in the Waha concessions.
Gabon
We have interests in threemajor onshore oil fields.
Azerbaijan
The Azeri-Chirag-Gunashli(ACG) Fields in the CaspianSea and the Baku-Tiblisi-Ceyhan (BTC) Pipeline bothcommenced operations in2006.
Joint Development 
Area of Malaysia and Thailand (JDA) Production from the JDA, the largest gas field in the Gulf of Thailand, ramped up significantly in 2006.12006 Highlights
23
476810
11
12
913
14
15
1
2
36
7
8
912
13
14
15
4
510
11
1718
19
20
21
221918
21
20221716
3165HEALTH & SAFETY  
As the complexity and geographical scope of our companygrows, the challenge for safety improvement becomesmore significant. With higher activity levels across ouroperations in 2006, we achieved a 34% reduction in our workforce injury rate. For the second consecutiveyear, we experienced no employee or contractor fatalities.
We are proud of the progress we have made and the contributions of all our employees.
As our global operations expand, our reliance on 
contracted services will continue to increase. With a lessexperienced labor pool, improving our safety performancewill remain a continuing challenge.
CLIMATE CHANGE
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from our operated facilities decreased by 4% in 2006. This reduction islargely attributable to a decrease in production associatedwith asset sales. As part of our GHG program weengaged a thir d-party verifier, Det Norske Veritas (DNV) 
to review our protocol and emissions inventory. DNV didnot identify any significant omissions.
As we continue to grow our business, our total atmospheric
emissions may increase. We will look for opportunities to sustain or reduce our carbon footprint by improvingenergy efficiency, reducing flaring, and evaluating opportunities for capturing and storing CO
2emissions.
ENVIRONMENT
Our overall atmospheric emissions and effluent discharge performance improved in 2006. We reduced
the number of oil spills by 57% in 2006 compared to2005. Unfortunately, failure of a 10" export pipeline at our Algerian operations resulted in a 31,367 barrel spill,the majority of which was subsequently recovered. 
We continue to enhance our management systems in
order to maintain our goal of continuous performanceimprovement. Balancing the priorities of sustainingimprovements in energy efficiency and GHG emissions
versus the regulatory impacts of additional environmental
controls on fuel quality, criteria pollutant emissions and w ater discharges will be a challenge going forward.COMMUNITY SUPPORT
We have a long tradition of investing in projects thatimprove education, health and quality of life in communitieswhere we operate. We work closely with the local communities to help us understand and evaluate specificneeds. This collaboration ensures the sustainability of our social responsibility program. In 2006 we invested$4.5 million in cash donations worldwide, plus an additional $1 million in disaster relief contributions.
We are refining our social support strategy in order to 
better focus our efforts on education and health initiativeswhich are both impactful and sustainable. 
BUSINESS PERFORMANCE
We are making significant progress in executing our strategy to increase shareholder value over the long term.In 2006 we achieved record financial results. Net incomewas $1.9 billion or $6.07 per share. Cash flow from operations was $3.5 billion. Shareholder value grew by$1.8 billion. Our debt to capitalization ratio improved from37.6% a year ago to 31.7% at year end.
Our Exploration and Production (E&P) operations are 
challenged to gain access to new reserves and grow ourtechnical and organizational capabilities in order to sustain these opportunities. In Marketing and Refining
(M&R) our challenge is to maintain our customer focus in ahigh priced environment.
VOLUNTARY COMMITMENTS
Hess Corporation has endorsed four international voluntary initiatives designed to protect the environment,promote universal human rights and encourage financialtransparency: 
•United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights 
•United Nations Global Compact
•Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights 
•Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative
Our challenge is to fully integrate these commitments into
our day to day operations.2006 AT A GLANCE
4Units 2004 2005 2006
Business Performance
Gross operated production/throughput (Normalization factor) '000 BOE/D 1,170 1,210 1,120
Total net hydrocarbons produced '000 BOE/D 342 335 359
Net gas production % net hydrocarbons 28 27 28
Natural gas production available for sale MCFD 575 544 612
Refined petroleum product sales '000 BOE/D 428 456 459
Port Reading refinery throughput '000 BOE/D 52 55 63
Sales and other operating revenue $ Million 16,733 22,747 28,067
Net income $ Million 977 1,242 1,916
Capital and exploratory expenditures $ Million 1,650 2,490 4,056
Total assets $ Million 16,312 19,115 22,404
Total debt $ Million 3,835 3,785 3,772
Stockholders equity $ Million 5,597 6,286 8,111
Interest paid to lenders and holders of debt securities $ Million 243 245 200
Return on average capital employed % 12 14 17
Convenience store sales (excluding petroleum products) $ Million 932 973 1,015
Income tax to governments $ Million 632 1,139 1,799
Royalties and other payments to governments $ Million NR NR 580
Cash dividends paid to shareholders $ Million 157 159 161
Benefits to employees – salaries, bonuses, pensions $ Million 528 564 596
Spending with suppliers  (U.S. Only) $ Million 1,475 1,715 1,929
Spending with minority suppliers (U.S. Only) % Spend 24 29 37
Community contributions $ Million 3 8 6
Safety Performance
Fatalities - Employees # 1 0 0
Fatalities - Contractors # 1 0 0
Recordable Incident Rate - Employees per 200,000 hrs worked 2.17 1.99 1.73
Recordable Incident Rate - Contractors per 200,000 hrs worked NR 1.01 0.50
Recordable Incident Rate - Workforce per 200,000 hrs worked NR 1.57 1.04
Lost Time Incident Rate - Employees per 200,000 hrs worked NR NR 0.80
Lost Time Incident Rate - Contractors per 200,000 hrs worked NR NR 0.10
Lost Time Incident Rate - Workforce per 200,000 hrs worked NR NR 0.41
Employee Hours Worked Million hrs 21.25 21.49 22.56
Contractor Hours Worked Million hrs 11.40 16.17 28.59
Environmental Performance
Number of oil spills # 192 270 115
Volume of oil spilled bbls 313 531 31,455
Direct Carbon Dioxide Million Tonnes 4.94 4.84 4.66
Indirect Carbon Dioxide Million Tonnes NR 0.531 0.506
Direct Methane Thousand Tonnes 7.98 8.04 7.06
Direct Greenhouse Gases CO2Equiv. - Million Tonnes 5.13 5.05 4.85
Carbon intensity Tonnes GHG/1,000 boe 11.98 12.63 13.11
Flaring MSCF 21,910 32,133 29,888
Non Hazardous Waste Thousand Tons 90.40 169.30 182.48
Hazardous Waste Thousand Tons 0.29 0.49 0.50
Recycled Waste % 81 39 48
EHS Fines and Penalties $ Thousands 10 279 188
Environmental Expenditures $ Million 1 26 71
Remediation Expenditure $ Million 12 15 15
Total Energy Use Peta Joules NR 37.45 39.54
Indirect energy consumption Peta Joules NR 9.00 8.91
Production energy intensity Giga Joules/Tonne NR 0.73 0.81
Global Workforce
Number of full time equivalent permanent employees # 11,301 11,975 12,921
Proportion of hourly paid employees % 69 68 68
Non U.S. Workforce % 4.9 5.2 6.1
Females in management % 35 36 36
Female employees % 43 45 44
People from U.S. racial minorities in management % 24 25 27
NR - Not Reported; More extensive data table provided /pc. /pc www.hess.comPerformance DataOkume Complex Project, Equatorial Guinea. 
Winner of the 2006 Chairman's Award for Safety ExcellenceOUR VALUES  
Our values provide guidance throughout the company on how we conduct our business. All representatives of the company are required to operate in accordance with our values.
• Integrity: We are committed to the highest level of 
integrity in all of our relationships.
• People: We are committed to attracting, retaining 
and energizing the very best people by investing intheir professional development and providing them with challenging and rewarding opportunities for personal growth.
• Performance: We are committed to a culture of 
performance that both demands and rewards outstanding results throughout our business.
• Value Creation: We are committed to creating 
shareholder value based on sustained financial 
performance and long term profitable growth.
• Social Responsibility: We are committed to meeting 
the highest standards of corporate citizenship by protecting the health and safety of our employees, by safeguarding the environment, and by creating a long lasting, positive impact on the communitieswhere we do business.
• Independent Spirit: We are committed to preserving 
the special qualities and unique personality that have made us a successful independent enterprise.ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH, SAFETY AND SOCIAL
RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENTHess Corporation has implemented a values based, Environment, Health, Safety and Social Responsibility(EHS & SR) strategy. This strategy is guided by the company’s policies and by management systems and programs that work to protect our employees, customersand host communities.
We are committed to continually improving our EHS & 
SR performance. Since performance must be measured to be meaningful we have well developed performanceobjectives. Some of these are “end of process” targets,focusing on the results of our actions. Others are “inprocess” objectives which focus on how well we are performing the actions themselves. 
EHS & SR Management System
Our EHS & SR management system ensures that there is a systemic, reliable process for identifying risks andachieving EHS & SR objectives, including continualimprovement. Our management system is based on recognized international standards that promote consistency,adherence to policies, and continued improvement in performance. In 2006, 12% of our total oil production(gross operated) and throughput was from ISO14001 
certified operations.
EHS & SR is managed as a critical business activity. 
Each business has primary accountability for performanceand results. The business organization is supported by integrating the technical resources it needs at the facilitylevel, with guidance from the corporate organization.
Audit
The role of our corporate audit program is to ensure that
our operations consistently adhere to company policy andobjectives, comply with regulatory requirements and, asappropriate, implement best in class industry standards.
Communication & Collaboration
The company maintains an intranet web-site for employeesthat provides updates on regulatory information and issueoriented training programs, ranging from office ergonomicsto a general overview of the hazards associated withhydrogen sulfide. Injury and illness statistics tracking andgoals are also included. HOW WE OPERATE
INTEGRITY
PEOPLE PERFORMANCE
VALUE
CREATIONSOCIAL
RESPONSIBILITY
INDEPENDENT
SPIRIT
7We are committed to the highest level of integrity in all of our relationships.We have established internal networks to help guide the
company on issues such as safety, corporate socialresponsibility and greenhouse gas emissions. Since muchcan be learned from industry peers, other companies, and external groups, we also participate in various organizations such as the International Petroleum Industry
Environmental Conservation Association, the InternationalAssociation of Oil and Gas Producers, the NationalPetrochemicals and Refiners Association and the NationalSafety Council.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
We continue to engage in discussions with both internaland external stakeholders to maintain and improve keyrelationships and reinforce transparency in our industry. 
Our key stakeholders include:
•Shareholders
•Customers 
•Governments and communities
•Business partners and suppliers
•Employees
We pursue many initiatives to keep shareholders and 
the investment community informed and to attract newinvestment. Each quarter, we host a conference call providing further clarity on our earnings press release. The calls are open to the public. Transcripts are made available on our website within 24 hours. All investor presentations are posted on 
/pc. In addition we participate
in communications and surveys with numerous sociallyresponsible investment groups. In 2006 we respondedto the Carbon Disclosure Project Survey.
Through industry associations we participate in meetings
with various stakeholder groups and non-governmentalorganizations. In order to better address stakeholder concerns, our businesses implement locally based SocialResponsibility programs to identify issues as early as
possible in the business process so that they can be
addressed and resourced appropriately.
Our EHS & SR policies require that we regularly 
communicate with the communities where we operate todevelop and maintain a mutual understanding of goalsand expectations. We initiate Environmental and Social Impact Assessments
(ESIA) in the early stages of projects to evaluate how ourbusiness plans may affect a location. Integral to theseassessments is dialogue with local, regional and nationalstakeholders. We work with these representatives on anongoing basis in order to produce an ESIA, which providesus with a baseline from which to start project developmentand an assessment of the impacts a project may have. 
This program typically begins during the initial project
scoping stages to determine the best options for projectplanning. Consultation allows concerns regarding thepotential impacts to be recognized early in the projectplanning process. In 2006 ESIA were underway for development projects in Algeria, Libya, the United Kingdomand Denmark. 
In addition to the ESIA consultations, we have also 
conducted significant informal engagement to keep localcommunities fully apprised of our plans as they evolve.Consultation initiated during the formal ESIA process hasbeen maintained through the construction phases of our projects at Phu Horm in Thailand and Ujung Pangkahin Indonesia. This allows feedback into the relevantmanagement programs and facilitates early mitigationof issues.
The company has mechanisms and techniques to raise
project awareness that allow for feedback including:establishing information offices in the field, distributinginformation brochures, conducting meetings with potentially affected communities, conducting study tourswith focus groups, distributing posters, broadcastingtaped messages, ad hoc meetings, and feedback forms.This information exchange provides us with valuable local
knowledge and help in the identification of a community'smain concerns.
We also maintain ongoing communication with individuals
and relevant representative associations which may beaffected by our operation.
VOLUNTARY COMMITMENTS
Hess Corporation has endorsed four international voluntary initiatives designed to protect the environment, promote universal human rights and encourage financialtransparency
/pc. Hess is one of only six oil and gas 
companies worldwide, and the only U.S. energy company,to endorse these four initiatives:8/pc www.hess.com•United Nations Universal Declaration of Human
Rights Comprising 30 articles covering fundamental
freedoms ranging from the right to nationality to theright to equality before the law, the Universal Declarationof Human Rights was established in 1948 by the United Nations (UN) General Assembly. It serves as theinternational standard and codification of humanrights norms and has been endorsed by 148 countries.
•United Nations Global Compact We are proud to be
the first U.S. oil and gas signatory to the UN GlobalCompact, an international voluntary agreement whichaddresses the private sector’s role in promoting respect for human rights, labor, the environment andfinancial transparency.
•Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights
We endorse the U.S. State Department’s VoluntaryPrinciples on Security and Human Rights, a voluntaryguide for companies to assure the safety and securityof their operations while respecting human rights and fundamental freedoms. It covers issues such asthe potential for violence, conflict analysis, equipmenttransfers, security arrangements, responses to humanrights abuses, and interactions between companiesand private security forces.
•Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative This 
initiative is discussed in the Transparency section ofthis report.Looking forward, our objective is to better incorporate
these commitments into our work processes and in conjunction with our social responsibility strategy make a sustainable, positive impact wherever we work. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Our commitment is to conduct business in accordance
with the highest ethical standards. We support the goalsof the recent Securities and Exchange Commission(SEC) and New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) corporate
governance initiatives to achieve greater transparency for investors.
Board of Directors
Our Board currently consists of thirteen members, nine of whom are independent. There are currently eight regularmeetings per year. The Board has three principal committees: the Audit Committee, the Compensation andManagement Development Committee, and the CorporateGovernance and Nominating Committee. Each of themembers of these Committees is independent underNYSE and SEC rules. Each committee has a written charter that sets forth its purpose and responsibilities 
/pc.
9
Ujung Pangkah Field in
Indonesia. Community consultations have beenmaintained throughoutthe development of this project.Audit Committee
The Audit Committee's purpose is to fulfill the Board'soversight responsibility relating to the company's financial statements, financial reporting practices, systemsof internal accounting and financial and disclosure controls, internal audit function, the retention and oversightof independent auditors and oversight of the company'senvironment, health, safety and social responsibility programs. The Audit Committee currently consists of fivemembers and usually meets six times per year. The AuditCommittee routinely reviews our EHS & SR performance.
Hess Leadership Team
In 2002 the Hess Leadership Team, consisting of the topexecutive officers of Hess Corporation, was formed toprovide strategic business direction and key operationaldecisions for the company. Several of the objectivesestablished by the Leadership Team are focused on promotion of EHS & SR policies and management systemsthat protect the company's workforce, customers andlocal communities. Executive compensation is linked toselective EHS & SR performance metrics.
The Hess Leadership Team is engaged in establishing
performance expectations and holding business unitsaccountable fo r their performance. Our business units 
and line management are ultimately responsible for incorporating EHS & SR expectations into their businessactivities and providing adequate resources and mechanisms to meet performance objectives.
EHS & SR Organization
The company has corporate and business unit EHS & SRstaff in place to provide technical support and functionalguidance to our business units. We have a corporateaudit program to ensure that our operations and subsidiaries adhere to company policies and objectives,comply with regulatory requirements and, as appropriate,implement best in class industry standards. Our EHS & SRorganization is presented in our web-based report 
/pc.EHS & SR Reporting
This report represents one of several key outputs from our EHS & SR reporting systems. Reporting includes centralized incident tracking systems which provide realtime access to information on safety and environmentalincidents. We use these systems to provide informationand monthly reports to our management. We have initiateda greenhouse gas protocol and monitoring system toenable quarterly internal reporting of these emissionstogether with our overall energy efficiency. Our corporatesystem is also used for collecting the metrics included in this report. Wherever possible, measurements andreporting are conducted in accordance with the relevantinternational standards or with reference to applicablelegislation and regulations.
ETHICAL BUSINESS CONDUCT
The company has adopted a Code of Business Conductand Ethics which provides company representatives with guidance and expectations regarding business ethics,citizenship, contracting and labor practices, regulatorycompliance, safety and stewardship of the environment. It is applicable to all of the company's directors, officers and employees 
/pc. 
The company monitors compliance with the law and its
own policies and has established both telephone andinternet email hotline services to facilitate reporting ofpotential noncompliance. All reports of suspected violations, whether made anonymously or otherwise, are treated confidentially and are investigated promptly, thoroughly and fairly. In 2006 there were 127 callsreceived on the hotline, 20 of which were substantiatedand resulted in follow up action including 13 employeedismissals. Reports are made periodically to the AuditCommittee of the Board of Directors.
We conduct regular training and evaluate employees on
these ethical guidelines. Training is mandatory. In 2006, allsalaried employees completed a computer based EthicsAwareness Training course. No action is taken against
10/pc www.hess.coman employee for making a complaint or reporting, in
good faith, known or suspected violations of companypolicy. Intimidation or retaliation against anyone makingsuch reports is not tolerated and any employee, officer or director who retaliates against another employee, officer or director will be in violation of company policyand subject to disciplinary action.
Political Contributions
It is the company’s policy not to make political contributionsto any political candidate or political party or to permit the use of Hess facilities or property for campaign activities. Contributions include not only financial support,but also the use of corporate resources and the use ofcorporate personnel in ways that assist the campaigns of candidates. It is also company policy not to permitmanagement personnel to solicit or coerce political contributions from other employees. The corporation maynot directly or indirectly reimburse an employee for apolitical contribution or channel a contribution through an employee in order to disguise its true origin. Employees,acting in their individual capacities, are encouraged toexercise their rights as citizens.
TRANSPARENCY 
Good governance is a precondition for converting revenues from extractive industries into economic growthand poverty reduction. When transparency andaccounta bility are weak, the extractive industries may
instead contribute to poverty, corruption, and conflict. Our commitment to the United Nations Global Compactpledges us to work against all forms of corruption,includ ing extortion and bribery.
In addition, the company has endorsed the Extractive
Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI). The EITI supportsimproved governance in resource rich countries throughthe verification and publication of company payments andgovernment revenues from oil, gas, and mining. TheInitiative works to build multistakeholder partnerships indeveloping countries in order to increase the accountabilityof governments. Companies participating in EITI pledgeto support the initiative in countries that have adopted it,and to advocate for EITI participation in countries thathave not. 
11Over 40 countries have committed to EITI principles andcriteria since the EITI Lancaster House Conference inJune 2003. Some countries are only beginning to launchthe process, while others have published revenue and payment data. Hess is actively engaged with severalcountries seeking to comply with the EITI.
Equatorial Guinea 
Hess has led a multiyear effort to encourage theGovernment of Equatorial Guinea to join EITI. In 2003Hess facilitated the first ever meeting between theWorld Bank, U.S. companies operating in EquatorialGuinea and the Equatoguinean government to discuss transparency. Hess leads the CorporateCouncil on Africa, Equatorial Guinea Group, which hasadvocated collectively with the Equatoguinean andU.S. governments to encourage EITI implementationin Equatorial Guinea. Hess led a mission to EquatorialGuinea to advocate directly with the governmentfor EITI adoption.
Important steps have also been taken by the
Equatoguinean government. In September 2004the government made a public commitment toimplement EITI. In October 2004 a joint WorldBank-IMF workshop was held in Washington on
fiscal transpar ency and EITI. Participants included
government officials and representatives of themain oil companies operating in Equatorial Guinea. Afirst Stakeholders’ meeting was con vened in Malabo
in March 2005. The EITI Commission drafted a
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) to define
the objective and scope, terms of reference, and an
action plan. In December 2005 the governmentapproved a special EITI implementation budget. A World Bank mission took place in January 2006 toassess the challenges confronting EITI implementationand to develop a road map to facilitate EITI implementation. Promulgation of implementationregulation is the next step required to initiate EITI.Pony Discovery, Deepwater Gulf of MexicoWe achieved record financial results in 2006. Net income
was $1.9 billion or $6.07 per share. Cash flow from operations was a record $3.5 billion. During the yearshareholder value increased by more than $1.8 billion. As of December 31, 2006 there were 5,572 shareholderswho owned a total of 315,017,951 shares of commonstock. Over 80% of the common stock was held by institutional investors. 
EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION
ProductionWorldwide crude oil and natural gas liquids productionamounted to 257,000 barrels per day in 2006 comparedwith 244,000 barrels per day in 2005. Worldwide naturalgas production was 612 million cubic feet per day in 2006compared with 544 million cubic feet per day in 2005. On
a barrel of oil equivalent basis, production was 359,000
barrels per day in 2006 compared with 335,000 barrelsper day in 2005.
Reserves
In 2006 we added 310 million barrels of oil equivalent of proved reserves, replacing 232% of our production at a finding and development cost of $12.54 per barrel. This was our fourth consecutive year of growing reserves.At year end, proved reserves totaled 1.2 billion barrelsof oil equivalent bringing our reserve life to 9.3 years. 
Our r esource base reflects significant future value as we 
complete our major projects, delineate discoveries and
sanction new development projects. In 2007 we areplanning to invest approximately $4 billion to further ourprojects and explore for new growth opportunities.
Exploration
In 2006 we had a number of successes, particularly in thedeepwater Gulf of Mexico:
•An exploration well on the company’s Pony prospect 
on Green Canyon Block 468 in the deepwater Gulf of
Mexico encountered 475 feet of oil saturated sandstonein Miocene age reservoirs.
•On the Tubular Bells prospect in the Mississippi Canyon
area of the deepwater Gulf of Mexico a successfulappraisal well encountered hydrocarbons approximately5 miles from the initial discovery well. 
Development Projects
In 2006 we continued to make significant capital investments in field development programs. D evelopment
projects are typically multiyear projects where early and
extensive pl anning is key to success. Emphasis was given
to safely developing these projects on time and on budget.REVIEW OF OPERATIONS
13We are committed to growing shareholder value on a sustainable basis and delivering 
long term profitable growth.
Phu Horm Gas Plant 
in Thailand. Production commenced in November 2006. The development wascompleted within 18months of project sanction.
During 2006 the company commenced production from
four new field developments:
•The company operated Okume Complex development
in Equatorial Guinea commenced production inDecember. 
•First production from the company operated Phu 
Horm onshore gas project in Thailand commenced in November. 
•In the United Kingdom, the Atlantic and Cromarty 
natural gas fields came onstream in June 2006 andproduced at a combined net rate of approximately
95,000 mcf per day in the second half of the year.
•Phase 2 production from the ACG fields in Azerbaijan
also commenced during 2006.
The company has several additional development 
projects that will also increase production in the future:
•Development of the Shenzi field in the deepwater 
Gulf of Mexico was sanctioned and first production is anticipated in the second half of 2009. The GenghisKhan field, part of the same geologic structure asShenzi, was recently acquired. 
•The company operated Ujung Pangkah field in
Indonesia is scheduled to commence production ofnatural gas by mid 2007. The company’s plans for
Ujung Pangkah in  2007 also include drilling additional
development wells and the commencement of a
crude oil development project.
•Capital investments in the Malaysia/Thailand Joint
Development Area (joint venture) will be made during 2007 focused on facilities expansion and
development drilli ng associated with the anticipated
commencement of additional gas sales of 400,000
mcf per day (gross) in 2008. 
•Development of the residual oil zone at the company
operated Seminole - San Andres Unit in the U.S.Permian Basin is expected to commence in 2007and production is anticipated to begin in 2009.
In addition, during 2006 the company made the 
following acquisitions and also disposed of several producing properties:•In January 2006 the company, in conjunction with its
Oasis Group (joint venture) partners, re-entered its former oil and gas pr oduction operations in the Waha
concessions in Libya. The re-entry terms include a 
25 year extension of the concessions. 
•The company acquired a 55% working interest in the
deepwater section of the West Mediterranean Block 1Concession in Egypt. The company has a 25 yeardevelopment lease for the West Med Block, whichcontains four existing natural gas discoveries andadditional exploration opportunities.
•During 2006 the company completed the sale of its
interests in certain properties in the Permian Basin in Texas and New Mexico and certain U.S. Gulf Coastoil and gas producing assets. 
MARKETING & REFINING
The company manufactures, purchases, transports,trades and markets refined petroleum products, naturalgas and electricity. Our customers are the motoring public on the East Coast of the United States, wholesaledistributors of oil and natural gas, industrial and commercial users, other petroleum companies, governmental agencies and public utilities.
The company owns and operates a fluid catalytic cracking
facility in Port Reading, New Jersey that manufacturesgasoline and heating oil. Our Port Reading facility operatedreliably throughout 2006 and we successfully completed a low sulfur gasoline project. The company also owns 50percent of the HOVENSA Refinery in the United States
Virgin Islands, one of the world’s largest refineries. Our supply operation includes 22 storage terminals with a capacity of 22 million barrels.
The company is a significant retail operator through its
network of 1,350 Hess gasoline stations and HESSEXPRESS convenience stores along the United States EastCoast from Massachusetts to Florida. Our Retail Marketingbusiness continued to experience consistent growth. For the first time, our 2006 convenience store revenues,excluding petroleum products, exceeded $1 billion. The company also operates an Energy Marketing businesswhich supplies natural gas, electricity and fuel oil to commercial and industrial customers on the East Coast.Energy Marketing achieved increased sales of natural gas and electricity as a result of both organic growth andselective acquisitions in 2006.
14Hess Corporation also holds interests as a a joint venture
partner in other energy related businesses, including a 92.5 percent interest in Hess LNG, which is pursuinginvestments in liquefied natural gas terminals and relatedsupply, trading and marketing opportunities, a 50 percent voting interest in a consolidated partnership that
trades energy commodities and derivatives and an investment in Nuvera Fuel Cells, Inc., which is engaged in the development of fuel cells for automotive use andelectric generation. 
TAXES & ROYALTIES
Hess Corporation contributes to the economies of thecountries in which we work by providing energy to helpeconomic development and by paying taxes and royalties.We paid a total of $1.8 billion in income taxes in 2006 anda further $580 million in other payments to governmentswhich includes royalties, severance, re-entry paymentsand leasehold arrangements.SUPPLY CHAIN
The petroleum industry depends on its suppliers for mostmaterials and services. In 2006 our total U.S. spending with third party suppliers was approximately $1.9 billion.The oil and gas industry requires safe, high-performanceequipment and personnel. We work with our direct suppliersto improve processes and insure adherence to Hess standards. Our long term view is to develop relationshipswith suppliers who share our values around ethics, integrity,safety, environmental protection and social responsibility.We contractually require our suppliers to comply with allenvironment, health, safety and labor laws for themselvesand their subcontractors. Environment, health and safetycriteria and adherence to drug and alcohol policies arealso included in our contracts with suppliers.
In 2006 Hess Corporation purchased 37% ($716 million)
of materials and services used in the United States frommore than 3,800 minority and women owned businesses.Most of these suppliers are located in the communitieswhere we conduct business such as New Jersey, Texasand North Dakota. Purchasing from these small businessesbrings quality and competitive pricing and strengthenscommunities in which we live and work. Our SupplierDiversity Program ensures that qualified minority ownedand women owned suppliers are included in our procurement sourcing process.
15
Our network of 1,350
Hess gasoline stationsand HESS EXPRESS
convenience stores isstrategically locatedalong the United States 
East Coast.Gassi El Agreb, Algeria. 
Winner of the 2006 Exploration and Production President's Award for Safety ExcellenceSafety is critical to our corporate values and a key 
component of operational excellence. An injury free workplace sends our people safely home to their familiesand friends. We strive to create a working environmentwhere accidents do not occur and in which employees,contractors and the public are not exposed to health andsafety hazards. Good safety performance also deliverseconomic benefits. Our workforce is more productive,with fewer days lost to injury. Fewer injuries also result in lower insurance and workers’ compensation premiums.A safe workplace is also more attractive to prospectiveemployees and contractors.
Where we have operational control, we have implemented
standards, practices and plans to communicate our safety expectations and guide our activities. We continueto improve our safety processes and procedures, conduct regular inspections of our facilities and have welldeveloped incident reporting and emergency responsesystems. We emphasize training and competency withinour workforce and promote communication through regular safety meetings, work permitting processes andinternal reporting.
EMPLOYEE SAFETY PERFORMANCE
Since 2000 we have made significant improvements inour safety performance, reducing our annual injury rate by over one-half. We had our best safety performanceever recorded in 2006 and for the second consecutiveyear had no work related fatalities. In 2006 we achievedan overall reduction in our employee recordable incidentrate of 13% compared to 2005. We did not achieve ouraggressive target for reduction of employee recordableinjuries. The year end recordable rate was 1.73 comparedto a target rate of 1.60 
/pc.
We also reduced our lost work time and restricted duty
incident rate by 21% between 2005 and 2006. In 2006 we modified our data management systems to delineatelost time incidents from those resulting in restricted duty.We had a lost time incident rate of 0.80 in 2006.
17SAFETY PERFORMANCE
We are committed to meeting the highest standards of corporate citizenship by protecting 
the health and safety of our employees.
0.00.51.01.52.02.53.02.81
2.13 2.17
1.99
1.73
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006(Cases per 200,000 hour s)Recordable Workplace Injury Rate
(Employees Only)
2.06
1.451.571.50
1.18
2002 2003 2004 2005 20060.00.51.01.52.02.5(Cases per 200,000 hour s)
Lost Time/Re stricted Duty       Lo st Time       Re stricted DutyLost Work Time & Restricted Duty Incident Rate
(Employees Only)
The majority of our worldwide exploration, production,
refinery, terminal and office staff are represented in formalhealth and safety committees. The nature of our retailoperations means that it is difficult to organize and effectively manage such committees. In these instances,we have initiated the role of ‘Safety Captain’ at each retail facility. This Safety Captain’s responsibilities include facilitating safety communications between managementand employees.
/pc www.hess.comHess Corporation faces a number of challenges in 
attaining our safety objectives:
•Over 60% of our total employees are hourly paid 
retail employees with notably high turnover rates
•In 2006 for the first time our contractor manhours 
(28.6 million hrs.) exceeded our employee manhours(22.6 million hrs.)
•Our business is international, in countries where we
experience language and cultural barriers
•The increased competition for qualified labor has
reduced the experience of the workforce
EMPLOYEE & CONTRACTOR SAFETY PERFORMANCE
Our safety processes and where appropriate performancetargets include both employees and contractors. Themajority of contractor manhours are accounted for at our overseas locations, predominantly at our major development projects in Algeria, Indonesia, Thailand and Equatorial Guinea. 
These major projects led to a 77% increase in contractor 
manhours during 2006.
Our Exploration and Production (E&P) organization had 
an excellent year, achieving an 83% reduction in totalrecordable incidents and achieving their employee/contractor target. In 2006, 44% of incidents occurred inProduction operations, 36% in Major Projects and 20% in Drilling and other operations 
/pc.
Our Marketing and Refining (M&R) operations, which are
composed primarily of Hess employees, continued tomake progress in employee safety performance, achievinga 9% reduction in incidents compared to 2005. Thisimprovement follows an 8% improvement between 2004 and 2005. M&R did not, however, meet its targetedreduction in employee recordable incident rate, achievinga year end recordable rate of 2.17, above the target rateof 2.00. Retail, which represents 84% of M&R employeemanhours, achieved its target rate in 2006 
/pc.
18Algeria 21 %  
USA Remainder 19 %  USA Retail 30 %  Remainder 
(12 countrie s) 2%
UK 2%
Equatorial Guinea 7 %
Thailand 7 %
Indone sia 12%2006 Manhours
(51 Million Employee + Contractor Manhours)
2005 20060102030405060(Million manhour s)
Employee        Retail Employee         ContractorManhours
0.00.20.40.60.81.01.21.28
1.04
0.53
2004 2005 2006(Cases per 200,000 hour s)
Target 0.70
Employee        Contractor s0.51
0.22
0.181.4Exploration & Production - Total Recordables
/pc www.hess.comSAFETY PROCESSES
We implemented several safety process improvements in 2006. Our E&P organization made significant progressin implementing their EHS & SR management systemsacross all facets of the business. E&P also initiated afully integrated incident reporting and tracking systemthroughout our worldwide operations. Incidents arereported in all areas of our business. Investigation resultsand learnings are captured as a basis for improving oursafety management systems and preventing reoccurrences. 
The company’s annual Chairman's Award for Safety
Excellence recognizes one operation or group that hasdemonstrated an outstanding commitment to workforcesafety through systematic processes, exceptional safetyperformance, and sustainability of safety improvement. In 2006 we received 9 nominations for the award. Theywere all worthy candidates, demonstrating excellent safety achievements. In addition to the Chairman’sAward, President’s Awards are also given both in the E&Pand M&R areas of our company for excellent safety performance. Nominations for the Annual Chairman’sAward for Safety Excellence highlighted a wide range of innovative safety programs across the entire company.EXAMPLES OF SAFETY PROGRAMS
Okume Complex ProjectThe Okume Complex Project was selected as the 2006recipient of the Chairman’s Award for Safety Excellence.The award is in recognition of the Okume Project’s outstanding safety performance during design, transport,construction and commercialization of a highly complexproduction operation involving locations across the world.The Okume Project created and implemented a detailedsafety plan, proactively selected contractor groups, identified, communicated and measured individual safetyresponsibilities and aggressively managed activities to achieve first quartile safety performance comparedto industry peers.
Algeria
The Gassi El Agreb Production Operations were the recipient of the E&P President’s Award for safety excellencedue to their improved safety performance through thetheme of “Safety Leadership in Action”. The theme categorized and promoted proactive safety activities(Safety Leadership Training, Behavior Based SafetyAudit Training, Management Inspections, Job SafetyAnalysis, Safety Training Observation Program (STOP),Contractor Peer Group Meetings, and Lessons LearnedSharing). Performance improvements were driven by a consistent culture across drilling, production and construction functions.
Equatorial Guinea
The Equatorial Guinea production operations used thetheme of “Zero Incidents and Zero Injuries” (ZIZI) to communicate the system concept of IdentifyingWorkplace Hazards, Controlling Workplace Hazards, and Mitigating Behaviors that may lead to risk based
actions. This drove safety as a workforce value ratherthan as just a priority.
190.00.51.01.52.02.53.0
2004 2005 2006(Cases per 200,000 hour s)2.61
2.39
2.17
Target 2.00
Employee        Contractor s0.82
0.14Marketing & Refining - Total RecordablesNorthwest Europe Production
The United Kingdom North Sea assets implemented foursignificant safety initiatives:
•Integrated EH&S Improvement Plan
•STOP - Behavior Based Safety Program
•Unsafe Condition and Near Miss Reporting  
•Inspection / Audit Follow-up Activities 
These initiatives helped the assets shift to a more 
proactive safety culture with an emphasis on personalsafety responsibility.
The South Arne facility in the Danish sector of the 
North Sea improved safety performance through a 5 element plan:
•Management Safety Visits
•Contractor Management Safety Visits
•Contractor Safety Induction Workshops
•Individual Responsibility Program
• Incident Investigation Training
Retail
Retail Operations presents a number of workforce safety challenges including high employee turnover and a diverse workforce where English is frequently a
second language. To address these challenges, Retail
Operations has introduced targeted safety programswhich include safety moments at divisional meetings,designated store safety captains, improved injury case
management, quarterly safety awareness days, bilingualsafety training and annual safety leadership development.Retail Division 5 in Florida achieved a 30% decrease in recordable injuries.
Terminal Operations
Our Terminal Operations have implemented several safetyinitiatives to improve their performance:
•Behavior Based Safety Program
• Hazard Warning Signage Installation
•A new Tractor Trailer Safety Orientation
• At Home Safety Initiatives
The Pennsauken Terminal in New Jersey won the M&R
President’s Award for safety excellence through its implementation of an employee driven safety program topromote employee incident prevention, contractor safetyobservations, and employee safety leadership throughsafety committee activities. This systematic approach was showcased and adapted for other Terminals to drive sustainable safety performance improvementacross the business.
20
The South Arne Facility
in the Danish sector ofthe North Sea. Platformpersonnel improvedsafety performance withemphasis on individualresponsibility.HEALTH MANAGEMENT
We encourage our employees to adopt a healthy lifestyleand offer programs and initiatives to support their efforts.Workplace health promotion activities include: influenzavaccination, employee health fairs (blood pressure testing,nutritional advice), local deskdrop initiatives and presentations covering such topics as stress management,office ergonomics and nutrition. We provide comprehensivehealth, safety and personal security guidance to ouremployees traveling overseas.
Pandemic Influenza Planning
A companywide Pandemic Influenza Task Force has been developing contingency plans consistent with theWorld Health Organization planning efforts. The committee is using information from organizations such
as the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,U.S. Department of Homeland Security and SOS
International to anticipate and manage the impacts of apotential pandemic.
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
Our products are used by millions of people every day.We produce quality products that can be used safely by our customers. Our products comply with all relevant legislation and meet health, safety and environmentalrequirements. In addition, we provide our customers withinformation and support in relation to the products theypurchase from us. 
21We consistently review the potential hazards and risksassociated with our product line to prevent or minimizeimpacts to human health or the environment. We collaborate with industry partners, government agenciesand the scientific community concerning the safe use of our products. Our environment, health and safety professionals provide our businesses and customers withexpert advice on the products we sell. We assess ourproducts to identify any environmental, health or safetyhazards, and provide Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS)that are intended to enhance the safe handling, storageand use of our products. MSDSs for all our products areavailable to the public on our Internet web site
/pc.
Personnel testing product
at a Terminal facility. We systematically reviewthe potential hazardsand risks associated withour products.
/pc www.hess.comPennsauken Terminal, New Jersey. 
Winner of the Marketing and Refining President's Award for Safety ExcellenceHess Corporation recognizes that to grow our business
and help meet the increasing global demand for energywe must do so in a manner that protects the world’sland, water and air resources. Our goal is to have 
environmentally sound practices wherever we work.
The company’s operations are managed to avoid or 
minimize impacts to the environment. As a global organization we face the challenge of conducting operations in ar eas with sensitive or unique environmental 
characteristics. Our systematic approach to environmentalmanagement and our commitment to understanding thehuman and natural ecosystems in which we work provideus with a framework to meet these challenges. Thisincludes environmental baseline surveys and environmentalimpact assessments prior to the start of our projects, the introduction of appropriate operational controls andon going monitoring during operations.
GLOBAL CLIMATE CHANGE
Climate change is a global environmental concern withpotentially significant consequences for society and theenergy industry. Implementation of the Kyoto protocol haseffectively placed a monetary value on greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions. Carbon markets are quickly evolvingand the cost or value of GHG emissions is likely to have a significant impact upon oil and gas project economics.
The company has two major sources of GHG emissions;
combustion of hydrocarbon fuels for power generationand flaring of associated gas 
/pc. Additional processes,
such as acid gas removal can also be a significant source.
The company is committed to the responsible management
of GHG emissions from our existing operated and nonoperated assets and future developments. We willalso use the emerging carbon market to review our globalcarbon portfolio and identify capital project opportunities.ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
Our four element GHG strategy is outlined below:
Monitor - To understand the expectations of stake-
holders and our capacity to meet these expectations:
•Participate in international industry forums relatedto climate change policy and research
•Initiate a corporate wide Climate Change Networkto advise management
Measure - To understand the scope of the issue and
to track our success:
• Measure emissions in accordance with recognizedstandards for the oil and gas industry
•Verify inventory by third party audit
•Publicly report results
Manage - As an integral part of good business 
practice, focus on:
•Flare Elimination or Minimization
•Energy Efficiency
•Enhanced Recovery
•Engineering and Design
Mitigate - To reduce our overall carbon footprint, 
consider mitigation through:
•Carbon Trading
•Carbon Offsets 
•Carbon Capture and StorageWe are committed to meeting the highest standards of corporate citizenship by 
safeguarding the environment.
Flaring 45%Acid Gas 
Removal 2%Other 1%Fuel Combu stion 42%
Indirect 
Emissions 10%Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Source
(5,357,014 tonnes)
23The company has undertaken a program to assess, 
monitor and mitigate GHG emissions, including carbondioxide and methane. The challenges associated with this program are significant, not only from the standpointof technical feasibility, but also from the perspective of adequately measuring our entire GHG inventory. We madefurther progress in developing our standardized reportingmethodology in 2006. We undertook a validation of our2005 emission estimates by comparing calculations madeusing our original methodologies with those made inaccordance with our GHG protocol and an AmericanPetroleum Institute sponsored tool (SANGEA) designedspecifically for the oil and gas industry. In late 2006 we engaged Det Norske Veritas (DNV), a leading globalindependent verification organization, to conduct an independent review of our protocol and our 2005 greenhouse gas inventory. The verifiers visited severalof our sites; including our Port Reading Refinery in New Jersey, our Gassi El Agreb operations in Algeria, the Seminole Gas Plant in Texas and our U.K. North Seaoperations, in order to determine the accuracy and completeness of our inventory.
The DNV review concluded that our GHG Protocol provides
sound guidance for estimating direct GHG emissions from the major emissions sour ces found at typical reporting
sites. DNV did not identify any significant emissionssources missing from our inventory. In addition, the reviewteams reported sincere commitment to these programs,and excellent internal capabilities that can be utilized tomake the necessary improvements.
DNV did identify the following areas requiring improvement:
•The GHG Protocol did not provide a source materiality
definition or a list of potential emission sources
• Documented implementation of a tiered system,
uncertainty analysis and internal audit had not beenundertaken
•Greater use of site specific data was recommended,
where such data are available
•There is a need to strengthen the links between the
GHG Protocol and the SANGEA monitoring system.We are addressing these issues through revisions to 
our Protocol, as well as instructional, definitional and networking improvements in 2007.
Our total GHG emissions decreased by 4%, from 5.58
million tonnes in 2005 to 5.36 million tonnes in 2006 
/pc.
However, our normalized emissions increased by 4%.Increases in normalized emissions are largely attributableto increased energy use in our maturing North Sea andU.S. assets, where more energy is required for injectionand compression. We were also forced to switch from gas to temporary fuels such as diesel in our U.S. GulfCoast operations during the refurbishment of our hurricanedamaged facilities. Redevelopment of our Algerian operations has resulted in a 34% decrease in normalizedGHG emissions since 2002. Further reductions are anticipated once Phase 2 of our Gas Compression andReinjection project comes on stream in 2007.
As we continue to expand our operations, our total
atmospheric emissions may increase. We will continue to look for opportunities to sustain or reduce our overallcarbon footprint. For example, our North Dakota operations are participating in the Plains CO
2Reduction
Partnership, assessing the technical and economic feasibility of capturing and storing CO
2emissions from
stationary sources in the northern Great Plains and adjacent areas. We are also developing an inventoryfocusing on all of our equity interests to help us betterunderstand our carbon emissions.
242002 2003 2004 2005 20065.42
5.135.58
5.36GHG (Million Tonne s)
01234567
GHG Normalized GHG
Normalized GHG (tonne s/1,000 boe)
11.512.012.513.013.514.013.76
6.12
12.22
11.9812.6313.11Greenhouse Gas Emissions (CO2Eqv.)
/pc www.hess.comAIR EMISSIONS
As with greenhouse gases the predominant source of sulfur oxides (SOx) and nitrogen oxides (NOx) from ouroperations are power generation and flaring. Majorsources of volatile organic compounds (VOC) are flaringand hydrocarbon loading operations. Our goal, wherepossible, is to reduce our normalized emissions.
In 2006, we reduced the absolute emissions of NOx,
SOx and VOC by 5%, 9% and 12% respectively
/pc.
When normalized against production, our company wide NOx emissions increased by 3%, due, in part, totemporary power arrangements and startup emissions in the U.S. Gulf Coast following hurricane related shutdowns in 2005.
Normalized SOx emissions decreased by 2% between
2005 and 2006. 
Normalized VOC emissions were reduced by 5%. These
VOC reductions were due largely to improvements at terminal facilities.
Stage I vapor recovery is the process of recovering 
hydrocarbons that are emitted during the transfer of gasoline from the delivery truck into the undergroundstorage tank. The vapors are routed through a hose back into the tanker instead of venting directly into theatmosphere. All of our retail stations have Stage I vaporrecovery fitted to tanks.
Stage II vapor recovery systems collect gasoline vapors
from vehicles' fuel tanks while customers dispense gasoline products into their vehicles. The Stage II systemconsists of special nozzles and coaxial hoses at eachgasoline pump that captures vapors from the vehicle'sfuel tank and routes them to the station's storage tanks.Stage II helps to eliminate the escape of gasoline vapors to the atmosphere. In 2006, approximately 49% 
of Hess owned and operated stations employed Stage II
vapor recovery.
2002 2003 2004 2005 20064.09
3.063.41
3.06
2.78SO2 (Thou sand Ton s)
012345
SO2 Normalized SO218.39
121314151617181920 13.7615.91
13.83
13.60
SO2 (lbs/1,000 bbl s)Sulfur Dioxide Emissions0510152018.59
13.3315.67
12.09
11.47NOx (Thou sand Ton s)
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
NOx Normalized NOx
NOx (lb s/1,000 bbl s)
40506070809083.60
59.9573.21
54.7556.13Oxides of Nitrogen Emissions
250102030405060
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006VOC (Thou sand Ton s)47.84
43.52
40.87
38.91
34.27
VOC Normalized VOC
VOC (lb s/1,000 bbl s)
140150160170180190200210220215.09
195.67
190.89
176.14
167.67Volatile Organic Compound EmissionsOIL SPILLS AND RELEASES
Our operations have the potential to impact land andwater resources. We have established controls to minim ize these impacts and metrics to help us monitor
and improve our performance.
Spills
Although our goal is to have no spills, releases do occuraccidentally. We track our company wide spills in order to monitor performance, identify root causes and planmitigation measures.
Our oil spill definition is: “Any spill to a waterbody which
creates a sheen; or any spill affecting land outside of secondary containment which is more than 1 barrel forthe upstream business or five gallons and greater for thedownstream business.” Impervious surfaces that are notdesigned or intended to provide volumetric containmentdo not meet this definition. (For example, all surface spillsonto concrete at Retail stations are considered outsidesecondary containment.) 
Hess operations achieved a significant reduction in the
number of oil spills in 2006 compared to 2005. The total number of spills fell by 57%, from 270 in 2005 to115 in 2006 
/pc.
The majority of our reportable spills occur at Retail stations.
However, Retail had less than half the number of spills in 2006 than in 2005. Retail’s improved spill performanceis attributed primarily to the completion of a spill bucketreplacement campaign in late 2005.
Our Exploration and Production operations had 27 spills
in 2006 compared to 93 in 2005. U.S. Production operationsaccounted for most of the spills with 10 spills in NorthDakota, 6 spills in the Permian Basin, and 4 spills in theGulf Coast. 
Failure of a 10 inch export pipeline at the Gassi El Agreb
facility in the Algerian Sahara desert resulted in a 31,367bbl spill in early 2006. This leak occurred in a remotelocation and was observed from a company aircraft during a routine flight. A repair was made to the pipe and
the majority of the oil was recover ed. The pipeline was
replaced later in 2006.
261821,33019227031.455
531
313426
2002 2003 2004 2005 20060400800120016002000
050100150200250300
184
115
Volume of Oil Spills (bbls)         Number of Oil Spills (#)
Volume of Spills (bbls)Number of Spills (#)Number & Volume of Oil Spills
After factoring out this single event, the remaining spill
volumes were significantly lower in 2006 than those inrecent y ears. Excluding the Algeria spill, we spilled 88
bbls in 2006 compared to 531 bbls in 2005. Our Marketingand Refining operations spill volume was reduced from110 bbls in 2005 to just 29 bbls in 2006.
Over 84% of our spills occurred at onshore locations,
where the majority of the oil spilled is recovered and disposed of appropriately. This includes the 31,367 bblsspilled in Algeria. The remaining spills to water amountedto just 3 bbls in 2006.US Retail 66 %
US Refinery & 
Terminal s 9%US E&P 20 %Algeria 3 %
St. Lucia Terminal 1 %UK 1%Number of Spills 2006
/pc www.hess.comrecycled, a 9% improvement on 2005. Approximately
0.30% of waste generated in 2006 was categorized as
hazardous. We did not export any waste deemed hazardousunder the terms of the Basel Convention in 2006.
Water
We do not use fresh water from any of our onshore U.S.fields for reservoir pressurization. In 2006 we injectedapproximately 66 million barrels of produced water intoour U.S. onshore oil fields and a further 32 million barrelswere injected into disposal wells.
EXCEEDANCES AND ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS
Corporate policy has long stressed our fundamental commitment to comply with applicable environment,health and safety laws and regulations. Although 100%compliance is our goal, exceedances of permitted levelscan occur, as do citations from regulatory authorities. A total of $187,931 was paid in penalties in 2006. 
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
Hess Corporation has been a party to multiple lawsuitsand claims related to the use of methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE) in gasoline. The principal allegation is thatgasoline containing MTBE is a defective product and thatthe parties are liable for damage to groundwater
resources. Hess believes that significant uncertaintyremains regarding the validity of these suits and that there is insufficient information on which to evaluate ourexposure in these cases.
Many refiners have entered into consent agreements to
resolve the United States Environmental ProtectionAgency (EPA) assertions that refining facilities were modified or expanded without complying with NewSource Review (NSR) regulations that require permits andnew emission controls in certain circumstances. Theseconsent agreements have typically imposed substantialcivil fines and penalties, required significant capitalexpenditures to install emissions control equipment, and resulted in changes to operations which increasedoperating costs. Hess is engaged in discussions with theEPA regarding the Petroleum Refining Initiative, althoughwe have already installed many of the pollution controlsrequired of other refiners under the consent agreements.While the effect on the company cannot be estimated at this time, additional future capital expenditures andoperating expenses may be incurred. 
272002 2003 2004 2005 20062,5342,461
1,985
1,796
5.87Oil Volume in Produced Water (bbl s)
050010001500200025003000
1012141618202224
15 151620
17
1,409
Oil Volume in Produced Water (bbl s)
Oil Concentration in Produced Water (ppmV)
Oil Concentration in Produced Water (ppmV)Oil in Produced Water Discharges to Sea
Offshore Discharges
At our U.S. Terminals, Refining and E&P facilities, the volume of oil discharged in produced water at offshorefacilities decreased from 1,796 bbls in 2005, to 1,409 bblsin 2006. Following an increase in 2005 the oil in waterconcentration decreased from 20 ppm in 2005 to 17 ppmin 2006 
/pc. This is well below the generally accepted
regulatory limits of 30-40 ppm. 
In 2006, the Triton Floating Production Storage and
Offloading facility in the U.K. North Sea installed a new separation package which will greatly enhance its produced water discharge performance in the future. 
In 2006, our overall volume of drilling mud and cuttings
increased due to a larger number of wells drilled.However, the amount of oil discharged with cuttingsdecreased from 350 tons in 2005 to 308 tons in 2006 
/pc.
Onshore Discharges
At our U.S. E&P , Terminals and Refining facilities, we continued our excellent National Pollutant DischargeElimination System compliance performance, achieving99.9% compliance in 2006 
/pc. Port Reading also 
continued its excellent external waste water performance
with all discharges well below permitted limits /pc.
RESOURCE USE
WasteThe overall quantity of waste generated increased by 8%from 169,763 tons in 2005 to 182,976 tons in 2006 
/pc.
Approximately one half of the waste generated wasHess Corporation is among 60 companies that have
received a directive from the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) to remediate contamination in the sediments of the lower PassaicRiver. The directive relates to alleged prior releases from a bulk storage terminal in Newark, New Jersey nowowned by Hess. A remedial investigation and feasibilitystudy is currently being conducted on a portion of thePassaic River by the EPA under an agreement with Hessand over 40 other companies. Based on currently knownfacts, we do not believe that this matter will result inmaterial liability to Hess. 
The company has been served with a complaint from the
New York State Department of Environmental Conservation(DEC) relating to alleged violations at its petroleum terminal in Brooklyn, New York. We believe that many ofthe allegations are factually inaccurate or based on anincorrect interpretation of applicable law and that we havealready addressed the primary conditions discussed inthe complaint. We are presently involved in settlementdiscussions with DEC.
In 2006, Hess was one of several companies to settle
with New Jersey regulators for allegedly raising gas pricesillegally in September 2005 after Hurricane Katrina. Thecompany agreed to pay $372,000.
In July 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC) commenced a private investigation into paymentsmade to the government of Equatorial Guinea or to officialsand persons affiliated with officials of the government of Equatorial Guinea. Hess has been cooperating andcontinues to cooperate with the SEC investigation.
ENVIRONMENTAL EXPENDITURES
Capital expenditures necessary to comply with low sulfurgasoline requirements at Port Reading were $72 million,of which $23 million was spent in 2005 and the remainderwas spent in 2006. Additional capital expenditures forfacilities, to comply with environmental standards, otherthan for the low sulfur projects were $22 million in 2006.
The company also accrues for environmental assessment
and remediation expenses when the future costs areprobable and reasonably estimable. At year end 2006,the company reserve for its estimated environmental liability
was approximately $75 million. The company expects that existing reserves for environmental liabilities will adequately cover costs to assess and remediate knownsites. The company’s remediation spending was $15 millionin 2006 
/pc.
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP AND BIODIVERSITY
The company’s operations are managed to avoid or minimize impacts on the environment. As a global organization we face the challenge of conducting operations in many geographic areas with sensitive orunique biological characteristics. 
Our systematic approach to environmental management
and our commitment to understanding the human andnatural ecosystems in which we work provide us with a framework to meet these challenges. This includes undertaking environmental baseline surveys and environmental and social impact assessments prior to the start of our operations, the introduction of appropriate operational controls and on going monitoring
during operations. 
Our commitment to environmental stewardship extends
beyond our operations to include decommissioning andremediation activities. Sites where remediation may benecessary include gasoline stations, terminals, onshore
exploration and production facilities and refiner ies.
We do not operate in any areas currently designated as
protected areas by the World Conservation Union (IUCN).Our environmental policy clearly states our commitmentto recognize the existence of, and to comply with, all legaland regulatory requirements related to any protected area. Further, our commitment to high standards ofenvir onmental responsibility in all aspects of our global
operations extends to areas where legal and regulatoryrequirements are less defined. In all areas, both with andwithout “protected” designations, our processes identifysensitivities and form the basis for practices that protectthe environment.
28/pc www.hess.com29We also work in partnership with other organizations
devoted to the Elizabeth River revitalization and remediation. The company is an active member ofthe Elizabeth River Project, a nonprofit organization,whose mission is to restore the Elizabeth River to thehighest practical level of environmental quality. Weare also a member of the Money Point RevitalizationTask Force. The task force is working to develop afull corridor revitalization plan to remediate the riverand prevent further contamination.
The remedial action plan for the Chesapeake Terminal
includes stabilization/remediation of near-surfacesoils, containment, and removal of contaminants.Remedial activities completed or underway include:
•Implementation of a phytoremediation system
• An extraction system which has pumped 
approximately 25,000 gallons of creosote to date, and 
• Removal and disposal of approximately 300 feet 
of buried piping and associated contaminated soil.
We are a proud participant in multiple partnering
efforts intended to restore the Elizabeth River to its former beauty. We continue to facilitate the sharing of best practices and lessons learnedacross these partnerships to ensure timely success
in our joint endeavors.
Inspecting plants used
for soil clean up at ourChesapeake Terminal,Virginia. Prior to Hess’ownership the site hadbeen used as a creosote plant.
Our EHS & SR management system ensures key 
environmental objectives are integrated into the overallbusiness planning process and identifies appropriateways to reduce environmental impacts related to currentoperations and new projects. Our operating units establish and maintain documented environmental objectives, including those addressing biodiversity, and manage progress toward those objectives.  
Clean-up of the Elizabeth River in Chesapeake, Virginia
Hess Corporation’s Chesapeake Terminal is located alongthe Southern Branch of the Elizabeth River. Prior to ourownership the property had been used as a creosote woodtreatment plant for more than 75 years, resulting in creosote contamination to the site as well as the adjacentriver. To effectively address the historic creosote contamination, we joined the Virginia Department ofEnvironmental Quality Voluntary Remediation Program.Close cooperation with program staff has provided forrapid progress on the project. As part of our contributionto the Program, we completed soil and groundwater evaluations, including drilling and monitoring subsurfacewells. Our results indicate that the majority of the contamination is restricted to the area immediately adjacentto and beneath the former creosote treatment areas.Environmental/Social Impact Assessments
For major new projects, particularly those in previouslyundeveloped areas or areas with known sensitivities,additional tools are used to facilitate biodiversity actionplanning, including ESIA. We employ a risk based
approach to ESIA that enables the evaluation of potential
impacts and the effectiveness of mitigation measures.Biodiversity considerations are incorporated throughout
an ESIA, including consideration of the biological,
chemical, and physical characteristics of the area understudy. The ESIA examines boundaries, services, continuity, and scale of ecosystems, as well as cross-
border and human interactions with ecosystems.
We use the best available guidelines and tools, such as
those developed by the Energy and Biodiversity Initiative(EBI), the International Petroleum Industry EnvironmentalConservation Association (IPIECA), Wildlife ConservationSociety (WCS), and IUCN to assess biodiversity sensitivities. Assessments are enhanced through localknowledge, site specific investigations and risk assessments. Typically, ESIAs are conducted by qualifiedconsultants with specific expertise relevant to the natural and socioeconomic setting of the project oractivity. These consultants are managed through aprocess that ensures our environmental expectationsand r equirements are met.
Our policies and practices reflect the links between
human welfare, cultural diversity and environmental conservation. We consider the interactions betweenecosystems and the people who depend on them.Community environmental and health expectations arealso considered, regardless of regulations. Ongoing and open consultation with concerned communities is a priority. Community input is integrated into key decisionmaking, and information sharing with communitiesoccurs r egularly.
30
Estuaries are a vital resource for both wildlife 
and communities.Restoring Americas Estuaries Conference
In December 2006, Hess was proud to be a 
sponsor of the 3rd National Conference on Coastaland Estuarine Habitat Restoration in New Orleans.The 5 day Conference offered over 82 sessionsexploring the latest advances in all aspects of habitat restoration, from planning and design tomonitoring and evaluation, and from science andpractice to partnerships and community involvement. The Conference drew participants fromacross the United States and the world to learnabout the challenges facing our coasts and 
estuaries. These participants represented all 
segments of the restoration community, includingbusinesses and corporations, governments at all levels, nonprofit organizations, and scientific andacademic professionals.31ENERGY USE
Our overall energy consumption, which includes all of the energy we use and purchase plus the energy we areunable to use in the form of flaring, increased by 5% from 37.45 Peta Joules in 2005 to 39.54 Peta Joules in 2006.When normalized against production and throughput our overall energy intensity increased by 11% from 0.73Giga Joules/tonne in 2005 to 0.81 Giga Joules/tonne in 2006 largely as a result of maturing oil and gas fields in the North Sea and U.S., where more energy is requiredfor injection and compression.
LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS
Natural gas, together with energy conservation, efficiency,and renewable energy, can help meet the growingdemand for cleaner energy, while helping to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and air pollutants. Thecompany has a 92.5 percent interest in a joint venture,Hess LNG, which is pursuing investments in liquefied natural gas (LNG) terminals and related supply, tradingand marketing opportunities 
/pc.
LNG is a means to move natural gas from producers to
consumers where pipelines are not economically viabledue to distance or technical limitations. LNG is producedwhen natural gas is cooled and condenses to a liquid.Prior to the liquefaction process, oxygen, carbon dioxide,sulfur compounds, water and other impurities areremoved from the gas.
Natural gas can help mitigate climate change, as it 
produces far fewer global warming gases than either traditional coal or oil technologies. Natural gas producesfewer emissions of acid rain and ozone smog precursors,and produces no mercury, as compared to other traditionalfossil fuel technologies. LNG could help to repower coal and oil fired electric power plants with a cleaner fuel.
Combined cycle natural gas fired turbines generate grid-scale electricity with the lowest emissions and highestefficiency of any fossil fuel. 
Fuel cell powered zero emission vehicle.Renewable Energy
Through Nuvera Fuel Cells Inc., Hess is diversifying
its energy portfolio by investing in new fuel sourcesand end use technologies. Nuvera is engaged indeveloping multi-fuel processors and fuel cell stacksfor fuel cell vehicles and stationary applications that will provide an important energy alternative withlower greenhouse gas emissions 
/pc.FUEL QUALITY
Our refining operation manufactures conventional andreformulated gasolines that meet or exceed all Federalrequirements. The production of motor and other fuels in the United States and elsewhere has faced increasingregulatory pressure to reduce sulfur content in recentyears. In 2004 new regulations went into effect that significantly reduced gasoline sulfur content. We havemade all the necessary investments to comply with theseregulations. The company has also reformulated its gasoline pool to allow for the blending of renewable fuels.Approximately 35% of the gasoline we sell to consumerscontains 10% ethanol. In addition, we will not require any additional capital investment to meet pending U.S.Mobile Source Toxic regulations starting in 2011.
/pc www.hess.comPersonnel on board the Sendje Ceiba FPSO in Equatorial Guinea.We are committed to maximizing local employment
opportunities where we do business. We added almost1,000 employees in 2006 compared to 2005. At year end 2006 our worldwide employee headcount wasapproximately 13,000. Over 94% of our employees arebased in the U.S., with more than 70% of employeesworking in our U.S. Retail network. Non U.S. employeescomprise 6% of our overall workforce. These employeesare located in the United Kingdom, Norway, Denmark,Russia, Equatorial Guinea, Egypt, Algeria, Gabon, Libya,Indonesia, Thailand, Azerbaijan, and Malaysia.TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT
The company develops employees to maximize their personal and professional potential in order to create a highly functioning organization capable of achieving itsbusiness objectives. In 2006 we spent $8.5 million ontechnical and personal development training with eachsalaried employee averaging approximately 25 hours of training.
In 2006, the company made progress in the implementation
of its Leadership Development Program and enhancedits performance management program. The “Marketingand Refining University” is a key training resourcewhich facilitates career growth and helps to provide the
necessary skill sets to our employees.
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
Our commitment to global diversity is essential as westrive for top quartile performance across the company.The company does not tolerate any form of workplace harassment including sexual harassment of an employeeor employment candidate.
The company provides equal employment opportunity to
all employees and job applicants regardless of race, color,religion, sex, age, sexual orientation, creed, national originor disability. All terms and conditions of employment,including compensation and opportunities for advancement,are based on qualifications and job performance.
In addition to the requirements of national laws and 
regulations, the company adheres to fair employmentpractices because it makes good sense and is the rightthing to do. The company's reputation as a fair employer,that recognizes individual rights, not only attracts andretains employees, but is also valuable in vendor and customer relationships.
The company prepares an annual Affirmative Action
Program to set specific goal oriented guidelines for the company. The program strives to ensure realization 
of equal employment opportunity objectives. 
33GLOBAL WORKFORCE
We are committed to attracting, retaining and energizing the very best people by investing 
in their professional development and providing them with challenging and rewarding opportunitiesfor personal growth. 
US Retail Field 71 %  
US Remainder 23 %  
UK 1%
Malay sia 1%  
Indone sia 1%  Denmar k 1%  
Remainder 1 %  Equatorial Guinea 1 %2006 Headcount (12,921 Employees)
Hess Corporation paid $596 million in salary and benefits
to worldwide employees in 2006.
The global oil and gas sector has seen increased activity
and capital investment in recent years which hasincreased workforce demand. As would be expected inthis environment, employee turnover rates and contractorhiring has increased across the entire oil sector. Given this challenging environment our salaried employeeturnover rate was a modest 3.6%. All complaints of harassment are treated seriously and
confidentially. Employees are encouraged to report anyquestionable behavior to their supervisors. If the situationinvolves the supervisor, the employee contacts thedepartment manager or Human Resources. The companyalso maintains a global reporting hotline for anonymous reporting of harassment and other perceived violationsof the policy. 
Black Professionals Magazine has recognized Hess for 
its commitment to employee and supplier diversity bynaming the company one of its “Top 25 Companies forAfrican-Americans.” In addition, readers of WomanEngineer Magazine have rated Hess one of the top 50 private sector employers. Subscribers to Careers and the Disabled Magazine recognized us as one of the top 50 employers for people with disabilities, and Diversity Inc. Magazine singled us out as one of 20Noteworthy Companies.
The company operates in 14 countries with a diverse 
professional staff of national and expatriate employees.Our “People Value” helps guide our company in attractingand retaining a diverse global workforce. In order toattract skilled national employees in our areas of operationwe actively recruit through national professional andtrade associations and advertise in local and nationalpublications. To further enhance our diversity and encourage the same in the technical fields in which weoperate, we advertise open positions with organizations
such as the National Society of Black Engineers, theSociety of Hispanic Professional Engineers and the Society
of Women Engineers. We also present informationregarding the company and its operations at internationalprofessional conferences, such as the Society of Petroleum Engineers, which attracts skilled professionalsworldwide. To provide all employees opportunities fordevelopment and long term advancement, we providetraining and career counseling and list open global positions on an internal website.
The company offers flexible spending accounts with
dependent care options and work/life referral services.
As of December 2006, there were two female non 
executive members of our board and there was noboard repr esentation from outside the United States.
Worldwide, 36% of managers and 44% of our workforcewere women. There are no women or minorities amongthe Hess Leadership Team.
PROMOTING EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT
Several mechanisms exist for our employees to providetheir feedback to the company. Our compliance hotline is a 24 hour resource available to employees to share theirconcerns or report issues.
To assess our employees’ level of engagement, as well 
as their perspectives of our overall performance, we 
34Our company relies 
on high performing employees and contractors working in a collaborative environment.
Global Compact,” which challenges businesses to
endorse and support ten principles in the areas of humanrights, labor, the environment and corruption. We alsohave adopted the joint United States/United Kingdomsponsored “Voluntary Principles on Security and HumanRights” which requires that any security services weemploy, whether public or private, conform to the higheststandards of professionalism and protect the humanrights of all community members. 
Training programs on human rights are being developed
in support of our commitments for both our general workforce and our security personnel. This training willtake place throughout 2007.conduct a periodic global employee survey. Our last
survey was in late 2004. The next survey is beingdesigned to focus on employee engagement and isscheduled to take place early in 2008. 
Significant improvements over the last two years have
been made in linking performance to compensation, differentiating pay among top performers and movingpeople across organizations. Communication and trainingfor the Total Pay system, which includes a formal performance review for every employee each year and a more proactive approach to career development, havehad a significant impact on improving communicationswith employees. In 2006 we finalized the introduction of a new web based career development performance tracking system. We have received employee feedbackthat we need to continue to work on improving benefits,workplace stress and our ability to be innovative.
SUPPORTING HUMAN RIGHTS
Hess Corporation’s values and policies require that wemaintain the highest standards of business and personalintegrity. Within these policies we also pledge to respectthe law in the countries and communities where we operate and uphold the principles contained in the“United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights.” 
To further demonstrate our commitment to these values,
we have pledged our support to the “United Nations
35In 2006 we introduced 
our new career development performancetracking system.
Freedom of association and right to collective 
bargaining. We recognize and respect our employees’
right to join associations and choose representativeorganizations for the purpose of engaging in collectivebargaining. Approximately 7% of our employees aremembers of trade unions.
Elimination of forced or compulsory labor.
We do not use forced or compulsory labor in any of our global operations.
Elimination of child labor. We forbid the employment
of children in our workforce. All employees are above the legal employment age in the country ofemployment.School children in Thailand. Hess is providing educational support 
to 36 village schools in the Phu Horm area. SOCIAL SUPPORT
We have a strong commitment to developing projects that improve education, health and the quality of life in the communities where we live and work. We supportcharitable and other nonprofit organizations, communityprojects, scholarships and employee volunteerism.
We work closely with the local communities to help us
understand and evaluate specific needs. This collaborationensures the sustainability of our social responsibility program. In 2006 we invested over $4.5 million in cashdonations worldwide, plus an additional $1 million in disaster relief contributions. 
Our goal is to make a sustainable improvement to the
social well being of the communities in which we operate.The key focus for our social support is education andhealth. In 2006 over 70% of our social spending in communities was on education. 
In 2006 the majority of our planned social expenditures
were in West Africa, Asia and the United States.
Some highlights include the following: Equatorial Guinea
In Equatorial Guinea the company developed and initiateda 5 year program, in partnership with the government, to support education in the country. The company has committed $20 million of the $40 million program over the next 5 years to strengthen the nationwide educationalsystem focusing on children between ages 6 to 18. The project will focus on improving teacher training,development of learning initiatives and improving school infrastructure. 
We began this program in 2005 by working with the
Equatorial Guinea Ministry of Mines, Industry and Energy,the Ministry of Education, and the international nonprofitagency, Academy for Education Development, to developa feasibility study on national education improvement. The results of that study led to the funding commitmentsby the company and the government. The program represents a model for public/private cooperation andis designed to improve education and provide sustainablebenefits for the country.Gabon
Our Gabon operations sponsor a number of initiatives toimprove education and health in the county. For severalyears we have sponsored a program which teaches schoolchildren about environmental issues and encourages them to produce individual artwork on environmental topics. This artwork is compiled into a calendar usedthroughout the schools and our operations. Schools andstudents who participate in this initiative receive support inthe form of educational materials and general infrastructureupgrading. We also donate library books and computers to rural and village schools to support education in the least developed areas.
37COMMUNITY & SOCIAL PERFORMANCE
We are committed to meeting the highest standards of corporate citizenship by creating a
long lasting, positive impact on the communities where we do business.
Education 73 %  Community 18 %  
Enviroment 1 %  Health 8 %  2006 Type of Investment - $4.5 Million
(Excluding Disaster Relief)Equatorial Guinea 65 %  Thailand 4 %  
Azerbaijan 7 %  Algeria 3 %  Gabon 2 %  Indone sia 1%  
United Kingdom 1 %  Malay sia .3%  United States 17%2006 Social Investment by Country
(Excluding Disaster Relief)Indonesia
In Indonesia, where we are developing the Ujung Pangkah Project, the company was proud to receive thegovernment’s social investment award for its communityinvestment programs and relationship building with localcommunities. This included an education improvementproject to improve the schools and teaching methods inthe Ujung Pangkah district. 
In cooperation with the Indonesia Street Children
Organization, we are sponsoring 241 marginalized childrenin Central and North Surabaya. This program is workingto prevent these children from becoming street children or child laborers by providing support and access to abetter education.
The company has also facilitated community planning
activities in the Pangkah and Gresik area. It’s main purposeis to build consensus among communities regarding futureeconomic development, such as fishpond management,shrimp processing, livestock farming and crafts.
Thailand
In Thailand, in association with our Phu Horm development,the company is providing education support to 36 villageschools located in the project area. We are also providingsupport to 15 regional healthcare centers and are increasing their capacity to manage long term healthcareissues, particularly diabetes and hypertension.We are also helping to combat deforestation as a result 
of agricultural development and are supporting local economic growth by assisting farmers in improving theircattle raising skills and providing training to local residentsin marketing their produce.
Azerbaijan
In 2003 Hess began a program to improve emergencymedical care in Azerbaijan. Working with our partners, the International Medical Corps and Johns HopkinsUniversity, the company focused on improving emergencycare at the First Medical Emergency Hospital No. 3,which serves a population of one million people in 
northwest Azerbaijan. The key elements of this programwere to advance the skill levels of emergency personneland improve the hospital’s infrastructure. 
The successful completion of this program in 2005
demonstrated that a second phase, involving the entirecountry, was possible. Working with the U.S. Agency forInternational Development, Hess recruited additional partners and expanded the scope to include five hospitals,new national emergency training centers and a newnational policy on emergency care. In 2006 significantprogress was made including improved ambulance andin hospital treatment, which has resulted in high qualitycare and an increased survival rate for trauma patients.
38School children in
Indonesia. Hess is sponsoring educationalimprovement projects in the Ujung Pangkahdistrict.
Algeria
In Algiers Hess has donated Braille software, computers,printers, tables and chairs to a local blind children’sschool to create a braille computer science classroom.
United Kingdom
We have provided support for several years to theRestoration of Appearance and Function Trust for medicalresearch and education associated with reconstructiveplastic surgery and other treatments for burns, skin cancerand other debilitating conditions. Employees have alsoraised additional funds for this cause and the companyhas sponsored various events during the year.
United States
Since 2004 Hess Corporation has been the presentingsponsor of Arthur Ashe Kids’ Day, a nationally televised,day long interactive tennis and music festival for childrenand families. In addition to honoring tennis legend ArthurAshe, the program uses tennis as a means to instill the values of humanitarianism, leadership, and academicexcellence. Arthur Ashe Kids’ Day is held annually as the kickoff event for the United States Open TennisChampionship in Queens, New York. Hess support provides m any underprivileged children in the New York
Metropolitan area the opportunity to participate. Hessworks with organizations such as the local Boys and GirlsClubs, the Harlem Children’s Zone and area CommunityTennis Centers, providing bus transportation to and from
the event, souvenirs, and tickets to the main event. Each year, Hess employees join the volunteer team tospend the day performing various needed services on the grounds and courts. 
In Houston, Texas the company and its area employees
are supporting the Houston Habitat for Humanity programthrough donations and volunteer work. Hess employeesworked as “house builders” in 2006 to provide homes forfamilies who typically have incomes equal to 25% to50% of the area's median income.
Hess employees actively participate in the March of
Dimes, an organization that raises money to fundresearch, education, and public awareness programs toreduce premature birth and to develop medical advancesthat support premature babies. Our employees also contribute generously to other charities, and to numerousclothing, food, toy, and blood drives throughout the year.
DISASTER RELIEF
In 2006, we provided over $1 million to support the reliefefforts following the May earthquake in Java, Indonesia.Through our support of the international relief agenciesCARE and the International Medical Corps over 200,000people were provided with clean drinking water andurgent medical support.
39Hess sponsors the
Arthur Ashe Kids’ Day atthe United States OpenTennis Championship.
GLOBAL COMPACT/IPIECA/GRI INDEX
The UN Global Compact (UNGC) is an international initiative that brings together companies, UN agencies,labor organizations and civil society in support of 10 principles covering human rights, labor, the environment and corruption. The 10 principles are based on the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights; the International LabourOrganization’s Declaration of the Fundamental Principlesand Rights at Work; and the Rio Declaration on Environmentand Development. As a signatory of the Global Compact, we believe that our
business policies are in accordance with the 10 principles.We participate in Global Compact meetings in the U.S.. 
Here we provide an index to our performance in 
demonstrating the Global Compact’s 10 principles in ourwork. This i ndex cross-references to r elevant IPIECA/API
and GRI G3 indicators. Further information is a vailable
throughout this report and on our website 
/pc. 
40Global Compact Principles IPIECA/API Indicators GRI Indicators Page
1. Businesses should support and 
respect the protection of internationalproclaimed human rights within theirsphere of influence.Voluntary CommitmentsSupporting Human Rights SOC-1;SOC-4 HR1; HR2 4, 8-9 35
2. Businesses should make sure 
that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.Voluntary CommitmentsSupporting Human Rights HR1, HR2; HR3 4, 8-9 35
3. Businesses should uphold the 
freedom of association and the effective recognition to the right to collective bargaining.Voluntary CommitmentsSupporting Human Rights SOC-7 HR5 4, 8-9 35
4. Businesses should uphold the 
elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor.Voluntary CommitmentsSupporting Human Rights SOC-7 HR7 4, 8-9 35
5. Businesses should uphold the 
effective abolition of child labor.Voluntary CommitmentsSupporting Human Rights SOC-6 HR6, LA4, LA5 4, 8-9
6. Businesses should eliminate 
discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.Voluntary CommitmentsEqual Employment Opportunity SOC-4 HR4, LA13, LA14 48-933-34
7. Businesses should support 
a precautionary approach to environmental challenges.Environmental Performance
Global Climate ChangeEnvironmental Stewardship and Biodiversity23
23-2428-30
8. Businesses should undertake 
initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility.Environmental Performance Global Climate Change, Air Emmisions, Oil Spills and Releases,Resource Use, Environmental Stewardship and BiodiversityENV-1, ENV-2, ENV-3, ENV-5, ENV-9, ENV-A1, ENV-A2,ENV-A3, ENV-A4, ENV-A6, ENV-A7EN1-EN30 2323-2625-272728-30
9. Businesses should encourage the 
development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.Global Climate Change, Environmental Stewardship and Biodiversity,Renewable Energy, Liquefied Natural GasEN6,EN7 23-2428-303131
10. Businesses should work against 
all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery.Voluntary CommitmentsEthical Business Conduct TransparencySOC-2 SO2, SO3, SO4 4, 8-910-1111
/pc www.hess.comGRI AND IPIECA/API INDEX
This index refers to:• Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators on which 
we have fully or partially reported.
• International Petroleum Industry Environmental 
Conservation Association/ American Petroleum Institute (IPIECA/API) sustainability reporting indicators.Some of the information regarding these indicators
appears in the Web version of this report 
/pc.
Fully Reported, Partially Reported, Not Reported in 2006Disclosures and Indicators GRI Indicators IPIECA/API Indicators Page
Strategy and Analysis
1.1, 1.2 1, 4
Organizational Profile
2.1 – 2.9 2, 3, 5, 13-15, 33
Report Parameters
Report Profile 3.1-3.4 Scope
Report Scope and Boundary 3.5-3.11 Scope
GRI Content Index 3.12 41
Assurance 3.13 42
Governance, Commitments and Engagement
Governance 4.1-4.10 ENV-6, H&S-1 7-11
4.11-4.13 35, 8-9
Stakeholder Engagement 4.14-4.17 8, 30
Management Approach and Performance Indicators
Economic Economic Performance EC1, EC2, EC3, EC4 5, 13-15
Market Presence EC5, EC6, EC7 5, 15, 33
Indirect Economic Impacts EC8, EC9 37-39
Environmental Materials EN1, EN2 5, 13, 14
Energy EN3,EN4, EN5, EN6, EN7 ENV-5, ENV-A8 5, 31
Water EN8, EN9, EN10 ENV-A7 27
Biodiversity EN11, EN12, EN13, EN14, EN15 ENV-A9 28-29
Emissions, Effluent and WasteEN16, EN17, EN18, EN19,
EN20, EN21, EN22, EN23,
EN24, EN25ENV-1, ENV-A1, ENV-2, ENV-A2,
ENV-3, ENV-A3, ENV-4, ENV-A4,
ENV-A5, ENV-A6523-27
Products and Services EN26, EN27 21
Compliance EN28 5, 27-28
Transport EN29
Overall EN30 28
Social
Labor Practices & Decent Work Employment LA1, LA2, LA3 SOC-A3,  SOC-A2 5, 33-35
Labor/Management Relations LA4, LA5 5, 34-35
Occupational Health & Safety LA6, LA7, LA8, LA9 H&S-2, H&S-3, H&S-4 5, 17-21
Training and Education LA10, LA11, LA12 SOC-5 5, 33
Diversity & Equal Opportunity LA13, LA14 5, 33-34
Human Rights HR1, HR2, HR3 SOC-1 35
Non-discrimination HR4 SOC-4 33-35
Freedom of Association & 
Collective BargainingHR5 SOC-7 5, 35
Child Labor HR6 35
Forced & Compulsory Labor HR7 35
Security Practices HR8 SOC-9 35
Indigenous Rights HR9 SOC-A6
Society Community SO1 SOC-A4, SOC-A5, SOC-A7, SOC-8 5, 37-39
Corruption SO2, SO3, SO4 SOC-2 10-11
Public Policy SO5, SO6 SOC-3, SOC-A1 11
Anti-Competitive Behavior SO7
Compliance SO8 5, 27-28
Product Responsibility
Customer Health & Safety PR1, PR2 H&S-5 21
Product & Service Labeling PR3, PR4, PR5 21
Marketing Communications PR6, PR7
Customer Privacy PR8
Compliance PR9 5, 27-28Commitments to External Initiatives
Investment & Procurement PracticesVERIFICATION OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE
ERM Certification & Verification Services (ERM CVS) was commissioned by Hess Corporation to undertake verification of its 2006 Corporate Sustainability Report (the Report). This is thefifth year that ERM CVS has been engaged by Hess Corporationin this role. The objective of the verification was to establish that the information presented is a reliable representation of HessCorporation’s performance and programs, and that the data presented conform to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)Reporting Framework.  
Verification of information pertaining to HOVENSA, a refining
joint venture, has not been included in the scope of our activities.Verification of source data associated with social indicators waslimited to those from Equatorial Guinea. The Management ofHess Corporation is responsible for the information containedwithin the Report.
VERIFICATION APPROACH
ERM CVS verification procedures and methodologies have beendeveloped with due regard to the requirements of internationalstandards governing environmental management systems, and general principles of auditing. Our verification approach involvesdetailed challenge of the environmental, health and safety datathrough random chain of custody audits, selected interrogation ofboth source and consolidated data, and interviews with corporateand operational staff with responsibilities for data management and report content. Substantiation of a sample of statements andclaims made in the Report has been undertaken and evidencesought where deemed appropriate.  
Our activities included interrogation of source data at the following
Hess operations: exploration and production operations inEquatorial Guinea, North Dakota Production and Tioga GasPlant, the Jacksonville Terminal in Florida and two representativeHESS EXPRESS convenience stores, as well as an office visit to KualaLumpur, Malaysia to assess data collection and data managementassociated with Hess activities in South East Asia. The methods andmanagement practices for the consolidation of EHS data practiceswere reviewed at Hess Corporation’s corporate offices, includingdata associated with retail and marketing activities. Business leveland Group level data collection tools and processes werereviewed for reliability, explanation of trends and claims related
to the reported data, and a review of internal assurance methods. OPINION & RECOMMENDATIONS
Based on the sample of data reviewed, the Report provides a reasonable level of reliability and ERM CVS is not aware of theexclusion of any material issues or misstatements made in relationto the information presented. ERM CVS has also evaluated the Report for conformance to the GRI Sustainability ReportingGuidelines and supports Hess Corporation’s assertion that theReport meets the GRI Application Level B+ criteria. In the opinionof ERM CVS, Hess Corporation has introduced significantimprovements in the provision of information relating to environmental, health, safety and social performance.
Our key observations build on those provided by ERM CVS 
previously and the work that Hess Corporation has accomplishedthis year and is committed to pursuing further. These are to:  
• Review the scope and boundaries of reporting to consider wider
inclusion in future of information related to indirect impacts;
• Include clear reference to the key sustainability objectives with 
specific targets that Hess Corporation is pursuing to improve performance (including future goals);
• Develop more consistent methodologies to capture EHS & SR 
data (i.e., wastes generated, flaring events not currently captured, all spills [e.g., brine, acid], etc.)
• Report more fully on how stakeholder views and interests are 
collected, considered, and responded to by the Company.
OUR INDEPENDENCE
ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group of companies. We provide services to clients solely related to independent assuranceactivities as well as training programmes related to auditing techniques and approaches. Our management processes aredesigned to ensure that the work we undertake with clients iswholly free from bias and conflict of interest.  
ERM CVS and the staff that have undertaken work on this 
assurance exercise provide no other consultancy related services toHess Corporation in any respect.
ERM Certification and Verification Services
London, April 2007VERIFICATION  FOR MORE INFORMATION
For copies of our Environment, Health and Safety Policyand our Corporate Social Responsibility Policy, or formore information regarding our operations, please visitour website at www.hess.com. 
We invite your questions, comments and suggestions
regarding this report. To send us your questions or comments, or request more information or additionalcopies of this report, please contact:
Vice President, 
Environment, Health and SafetyHess Corporation1185 Avenue of the AmericasNew York, NY 10036
You can also send us an e-mail at ehs @hess.com.
The savings below are achieved when PC recycled fiber is used in place of virgin fiber.
70.18 trees preserved for the future
202.64 lbs waterborne waste not created
29,809 gallons wastewater flow saved
3,298 lbs solid waste not generated6,494 lbs net greenhouse gases prevented
49,708,000 BTUs energy not consumed
Savings from the use of emission-free wind-generated electricity:
3,374 lbs air emissions not generated
In other words your savings from the use of wind-generated electricity are equivalent to:
Not driving 3,655 miles
Planting 228 trees
R
Cert no. SW-COC-1576Sandy Alexander Inc., an ISO 14001:2004 certified printer with Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) Chain of Custody and Green-e ce rtifications 
printed the Hess Annual Corporate Sustainability Report with the use of renewable wind power resulting in nearly zero volatile organic compound
(VOC) emissions. This report was printed on FSC-certified Mohawk Options paper, a process-chlorine-free 100 percent post-consum er waste
(PCW) paper manufactured entirely with 100 percent Green-e certified wind electricity and containing 100 percent post-consumer recycled fiber.1185 Avenue of the Americas
New York, NY 10036
www.hess.com