SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
2021 Sustainability ReportOur purpose is to be the world’s most trusted energy partner. Hess Values set the framework 
and establish the ethical standards by which we conduct our business.
Integrity
People Performan ce
Value
CreationSocial
Responsibility
Independent
SpiritINTEGRITY
We are committed to the highest level of integrity in all our relationships.
PERFORMANCE
We are committed to a culture of performance that demands and 
rewards outstanding results throughout our business.
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
We are committed to meeting the highest standards of corporate 
citizenship by protecting the health and safety of our employees, 
safeguarding the environment and creating a long lasting, positive  
impact on the communities where we do business.
INDEPENDENT SPIRIT
We are committed to preserving the special qualities and unique 
personality that have made us a successful independent enterprise.
VALUE CREATION
We are committed to creating shareholder value based on sustained 
financial performance and long term profitable growth.
PEOPLE
We are committed to attracting, retaining and energizing the best  
people by investing in their professional development and providing  
them with challenging and rewarding opportunities for personal growth.Hess Values
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) STANDARDS
This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: 
Core option. Our declaration of conformance with the GRI Standards 
has been reviewed and confirmed by our external verifier, ERM Certification 
and Verification Services. See the assurance statement on page 68.
UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 
COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS
This is our Communication on Progress in implementing 
the principles of the United Nations Global Compact.  
We welcome feedback on its contents.An index of our sustainability reporting indicators, including those from  
the GRI Standards, with cross reference to the Ten Principles of the 
United Nations Global Compact, IPIECA (the global oil and gas industry 
organization for environmental and social issues) sector specific 
guidelines, Sustainability Accounting Standards Board oil and gas 
industry metrics and the World Economic Forum Stakeholder Capitalism 
Metrics, can be found at hess.com/docs/default-source/sustainability/
hess-gri-content-index-2021.pdf . The index includes all indicators required 
for a GRI Standards Core report, as well as a number of additional 
indicators for which we are able to provide supporting information.Reporting Standards  
and AssuranceIndex of Reporting  
Indicators
For copies of our Environment, Health and Safety Policy, Social 
Responsibility Policy or Human Rights Policy, or for more information 
regarding our operations, please visit our website at hess.com/
sustainability/how-we-operate .
We invite your questions, comments and suggestions regarding this 
report. To send us your questions or comments, or to request more 
information or additional copies of this report, please contact:Vice President, Environment,  
Health and Safety  
Hess Corporation  
1501 McKinney Street  
Houston, TX 77010
You can also send us an email at  
sustainability@hess.com .
2021 Sustainability Report2021 Sustainability Report
TH
ANNUAL
SUSTAINABI LITY
REPORT
On The Cover
Production Operations, 
North DakotaRequests for InformationTable of Contents
1 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2
Message from the CEO
Our CEO’s view on building  
a sustainable enterprise
4
About Hess
Our company operations in brief
5
Creating Value for Society
An overview of ways we deliver  
value for our stakeholders
6
Approach to Reporting
A description of our materiality assessment, 
reporting framework and boundaries
8
Strategy and Progress
A snapshot of our progress and path forward
11
How We Operate
The principles that define our expectations for 
sustainable management and performance
21
Social Responsibility
A review of social responsibility  
as our way of doing business
27
Safety and Health
Aiming to get everyone, 
everywhere, every day, home safe35
Our People 
Creating an inclusive culture and high quality 
workforce that innovates, leads and learns
39
Climate Change and Energy
Balancing the world’s growing energy needs 
with greenhouse gas emissions reduction 
45
Carbon Asset Risk 
Assessment
Evaluating sustainability risks and global 
scenarios in making strategic decisions
59
Environment
Responsible management  
of our environmental footprint
66
Performance Data
68
Independent Assurance 
Statement
69
Awards and Recognition
2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 
11
21
27
39
Our company’s  
first sustainability 
report, published 
for calendar year 
19972| 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORTThis year marks the publication of our 25th annual sustainability 
report, demonstrating our longstanding commitment to 
sustainability and the value it creates for all of our stakeholders. 
In keeping with our company’s purpose – to be the world’s 
most trusted energy partner – we are focused on building a 
sustainable enterprise that helps meet the world’s growing 
energy needs in a safe, environmentally responsible, socially 
sensitive and profitable way.
Russia’s invasion of Ukraine put a spotlight on energy security and 
the critical importance of oil and gas to the global economy. At the 
same time, the world is facing climate change, the greatest scientific 
challenge of the 21st century. The International Energy Agency’s 
(IEA’s) latest World Energy Outlook  provides multiple scenarios for 
addressing the dual challenge of growing the global energy supply by 
about 20% over the next 20 years and reaching net zero emissions 
by 2050. In all of the IEA scenarios, oil and gas will be needed and 
significantly more investment will be required in the years ahead – 
much more in renewables and much more in oil and gas.
In a world that will need reliable, low cost oil and gas resources 
for decades to come, Hess is in a strong position. Our strategy 
is to deliver high return resource growth, a low cost of supply 
and industry leading cash flow growth – while at the same time 
maintain our industry leadership in environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) performance and disclosure. 
Sustainability starts at the top of our company and is reinforced at 
every level. Our Board of Directors is actively engaged in overseeing 
Hess’ environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & 
SR) practices, working alongside senior management. Our 2021 
Sustainability Report shows how we are addressing sustainability 
issues and integrating sustainable business practices into our 
strategy, goals, metrics and daily operations. Several key areas are 
highlighted below, with detailed information in this report and on our 
company website at www.hess.com .
ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE
We believe climate risks can and should be addressed while at 
the same time meeting the growing demand for affordable and 
secure energy, which is essential to ensure a just and orderly 
energy transition that aligns with the United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals. Governments, businesses and civil society 
must work together on cost effective policies to meet this dual 
challenge. Our company supports transparent carbon pricing as 
an economically efficient method to encourage the investments 
needed to accelerate decarbonization across all sectors of the 
economy while keeping energy affordable.
Our climate strategy is closely aligned with the recommendations 
of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD) established by the G20 Financial Stability Board, and its 
implementation is led by senior members of our leadership team 
with oversight by our Board. We support the global ambition to Message from the CEO
achieve net zero emissions by 2050 and the Paris Agreement’s 
aim to limit the global average temperature rise to well below 2°C. 
As part of our commitment to implement a substantive climate 
strategy, an executive led task force is currently developing a plan 
for our company to achieve net zero Scope 1 and 2 emissions. 
Our Board and senior leadership have set aggressive targets for 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reduction. After our company 
significantly outperformed our five year emissions reduction targets 
for 2020, we set new five year reduction targets for 2025, which 
are to reduce operated Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity 
by approximately 50% and methane emissions intensity by 
approximately 50%, both from 2017. We also have committed to 
achieve zero routine flaring from our operations by the end of 2025 
and have endorsed the World Bank’s “Zero Routine Flaring by 2030” 
Initiative. These targets are designed to exceed the carbon intensity 
reductions by 2030 in the IEA’s Sustainable Development and Net 
Zero Emissions by 2050 Scenarios, which are consistent with the 
Paris Agreement’s aim to limit the global average temperature rise 
to well below 2°C. 
Continued flaring reduction, particularly from our Bakken 
operations, is a key driver for reducing our GHG emissions 
intensity. For this reason, Bakken flaring reduction was one of 
the performance metrics in our company’s 2021 annual incentive 
plan with a target to achieve a 7% flaring rate from our operated 
Bakken wells and pads as reported to the North Dakota Industrial 
Commission. We surpassed this target, reducing our flaring rate 
to approximately 4% by the end of 2021. 
As part of our sustainability commitment, we are funding innovation 
to mitigate societal emissions through the Salk Institute’s Harnessing 
Plants Initiative, which aims to develop plants with larger root 
systems that are capable of absorbing and storing potentially billions 
of tons of carbon per year from the atmosphere. We also address 
100% of the indirect emissions from our purchased electricity 
through a combination of renewable energy generated from the grid 
and the purchase of renewable energy certificates.
We test the long term resilience of Hess’ portfolio in a lower carbon 
economy using energy supply and demand scenarios developed 
by the IEA. Hess’ strategic priorities are consistent with the IEA’s 
less than 2°C scenarios, which envision a meaningful role for oil and 
natural gas as part of the global energy mix through 2050. More 
information about our annual scenario planning is on pages 45–48.
We bring in subject matter experts to advise and inform our 
Board on climate and other sustainability issues to be considered 
in the development of company strategies and policies. The 
EHS Committee of our Board provides oversight and makes 
recommendations to the full Board with respect to Hess’ policies, 
positions and systems for EHS & SR, compliance and risk 
management. The Board’s Compensation and Management 
Development Committee has tied executive compensation to 
advancing the company’s EHS and climate change goals.3 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | John B. Hess 
Chief Executive Officer
June 2022SAFETY 
Hess’ safety programs and practices aim to maintain a culture in 
which employees and contractors keep each other safe on the job 
and work together to continuously improve our performance. In 
2021, our multidisciplinary emergency response team continued to 
oversee our plans and precautions to reduce the risks of COVID-19 
in our work environment and ensure business continuity.
In 2021, we achieved a 9% reduction in our workforce total 
recordable incident rate (TRIR) from 2020, driven by a year over 
year decrease in our employee TRIR. We reached a six year low 
in our severe and significant safety incident rate, achieving a 14% 
reduction from 2020. We continue to improve our process safety 
performance and between 2016 and 2021 have reduced the 
number of Tier 1 process safety incidents by 60% based on our 
current portfolio of operated assets.
The safety performance of our contractors, who represent 
approximately 65% of our total workforce hours, is critical to 
achieving our safety goals. In 2021, we successfully completed a 
number of operational milestones where contractor engagement 
was vital to our strong safety performance. These included 
onboarding two drilling rigs in the Bakken and one in North Malay 
Basin and completion of the Tioga Gas Plant turnaround – all 
with zero recordable safety incidents. 
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 
In keeping with our company values and purpose, we have a 
longstanding commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) 
in our workplace and through social investment programs that 
make a positive and lasting impact on the communities where 
we operate. For example, in 2021, we announced a $1.4 million 
grant to the Jackie Robinson Foundation to provide four year 
scholarships and internship opportunities to underrepresented 
college students and to support the new Jackie Robinson 
Museum that will serve as a venue for educational programming.
In 2021, Hess also announced a $9 million financial commitment 
over three years as part of our Learning for Life Partnership 
to fund educational programs and support services in three 
underserved Houston communities. Our Learning for Life 
Partnership will benefit 22 schools and more than 13,000 
children from prekindergarten through high school. 
In Guyana, Hess is supporting work by respected third party 
organizations to address development initiatives in healthcare, 
infrastructure, education and economic development that have 
been set as key priorities by the government with the aim of 
building shared prosperity for the people of Guyana. 
We have endorsed or formally joined a number of international 
voluntary initiatives designed to advance transparency, 
environmental protection, human rights and good governance, 
including our continued support for the U.N. Global Compact and the Global Compact U.S. Network, which share best practices in 
sustainable business conduct across the private sector. We are 
also guided in our activities by the U.N. Sustainable Development 
Goals, which were considered as part of the development of our 
updated EHS & SR strategy in 2020. 
PEOPLE 
Our success as a company depends on having a world class 
workforce and a culture defined by our values. To attract and 
retain the best people, we cultivate a workplace culture that is 
guided by the Hess Values and reinforced by quality leadership; 
DEI; learning and engagement; and Lean and innovation 
processes. Our human capital strategy is led by Hess’ executive 
leadership and our Board of Directors.
As part of our DEI commitment, in 2021 we hired a dedicated 
head of DEI and a dedicated expert to lead our supplier related 
DEI and sustainability efforts. Hess leaders continued hosting 
listening sessions with small groups of underrepresented 
employees to better understand their experiences and shape 
our actions to advance our company culture. In 2021, five new 
employee resource groups launched, and we expanded our DEI 
training and our efforts to attract more diverse job candidates.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE 
DISCLOSURE
We see transparency in reporting as an important part of 
being a trusted energy partner. Our reporting aligns with a 
number of frameworks including oil and gas industry metrics 
from the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board and TCFD 
recommendations. Our sustainability report is prepared in 
accordance with the Core option of the Global Reporting  
Initiative Standards.
We are proud of our company’s continued sustainability progress 
and honored to have been recognized throughout 2021 as an 
industry leader in our ESG performance and disclosure. Thank 
you to our employees, communities, customers, business partners, 
Board of Directors and shareholders for your support. Together we 
will continue to build a sustainable enterprise that helps meet the 
world’s growing energy needs and makes a positive social impact 
on the world around us.4| 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT2021 HighlightsAbout Hess
Hess Corporation is a leading global independent energy company engaged in the exploration 
and production of crude oil and natural gas.
PRODUCTION
Operated assets include the Bakken in North 
Dakota; Baldpate, Conger, Penn State, Stampede 
and Tubular Bells in the Gulf of Mexico; and North 
Malay Basin in Malaysia. Nonoperated assets 
include the Liza Phase 1 and 2 developments 
offshore Guyana, the Malaysia/Thailand Joint 
Development Area, Llano in the Gulf of Mexico  
and the Waha Concessions in Libya.
DEVELOPMENTS
Activities are focused on nonoperated developments 
on the Stabroek Block, offshore Guyana.Production
Midstream
Developments
ExplorationHess Portfolio of Operations
MIDSTREAM
Assets operated by Hess Midstream LP include 
a natural gas processing plant, a rail loading 
terminal and associated rail cars, a crude oil truck 
and pipeline terminal, crude oil and natural gas 
gathering systems and produced water gathering 
and disposal systems, all in North Dakota. 
Nonoperated assets include an additional natural 
gas processing plant in North Dakota.
EXPLORATION
Activities are focused on the Atlantic Margin and 
include nonoperated interests offshore Guyana 
and Suriname and both operated and nonoperated 
interests in the Gulf of Mexico.
Note: For the purposes of this report, Hess Midstream LP is considered a subsidiary of Hess Corporation. 
Boundaries and restatements of data included in this report are discussed in the Approach to Reporting section.• We safely added two operated rigs in the 
Bakken in 2021, supported by rising oil prices 
and increasing global oil demand.
• Through the continued application of technology 
and Lean manufacturing techniques, we 
reduced our average drilling and completion 
costs in the Bakken to $5.8 million per well  
in 2021, down from $6.2 million in 2020.  
We continue to optimize the development of our 
Bakken acreage through a combination of well 
spacing and completion design.
• On the Stabroek Block in Guyana, where Hess 
has a 30% interest, 2021 marked another year 
of extraordinary exploration success with five 
significant discoveries.
• Our sanctioned oil developments on the 
Stabroek Block have world class economics, 
with a Brent breakeven oil price of between 
$25 and $35 per barrel. Guyana, which is 
the largest new oil province discovered in the 
last decade, is positioned to be one of the 
highest margin, lowest carbon intensity oil 
developments in the world according to Wood 
Mackenzie data.
• In 2021, production from the Liza Phase 1 
development on the Stabroek Block averaged 
117,000 gross barrels of oil per day for the full 
year, compared with 74,000 gross barrels of oil 
per day for the full year in 2020.
• Significant progress was made in 2021 at 
three other developments on the block: Liza 
Phase 2, which achieved first oil in February 
2022; Payara, which is ahead of schedule and 
is now expected to come online in late 2023; 
and Yellowtail, which was sanctioned in April 
2022 and is expected to come online in 2025.
• In 2021, net production from the Hess operated 
North Malay Basin development project and the 
Carigali Hess operated Malaysia/Thailand Joint 
Development Area (JDA) increased as demand 
recovered from the impacts of the COVID-19 
pandemic. Development drilling at JDA 
recommenced in 2021 and we continued the 
drilling program at North Malay Basin with first 
gas for Phase 3 development expected in 2022.1,309
Million Barrels of Oil  
Equivalent Proved Reserves11
Years of 
Reserve Life315,000
Barrels of Oil Equivalent per Day 
Total Net Hydrocarbons Produced5 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | Creating Value for Society
Hess’ purpose is to be the world’s most trusted energy partner. We seek to help meet the world’s energy needs and address key 
challenges facing the world today, including climate change, and to create value for the benefit of all our stakeholders – our shareholders 
and business partners, our employees and the local communities and economies where we operate – which in turn benefits society at 
large. We believe our company is well positioned, with our low cost of supply and high return investments, to deliver strong performance 
under a variety of market conditions.
MAINTAINING FOCUS ON SOCIETY ’S GREATEST CHALLENGES
We integrate sustainable business practices, corporate citizenship and environmental stewardship into our operations and long term 
strategy. Our sustainable business practices are guided by the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and our 
environment, health, safety and social responsibility strategy is aligned with the SDGs that are most relevant to our business (see  
pages 8–9). Producing and enabling access to affordable, reliable energy is key to creating opportunity and raising living standards across  
the globe. At the same time, the world is faced with the significant challenge of addressing climate change and achieving the energy 
transition to a lower carbon economy. We believe the oil and gas industry can play a vital role in helping to address these challenges.
After our company significantly outperformed our five year emissions reduction targets for 2020, we announced new five year 
greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction targets for 2025 consistent with the Paris Agreement’s well below 2°C ambition (see page 49).  
We remain committed to doing our part to limit GHG emissions while supporting sustainable global development and the just and  
secure transition to a lower carbon economy.
WORKFORCE
We generate value through the jobs we create directly as well as those we support 
indirectly – both in our supply chain and in the broader economy, where the energy 
we produce is essential to industries across the globe. We extend our high ethical 
and safety standards throughout our supply chain by requiring suppliers and 
contractors to abide by our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and our Voluntary 
Commitments regarding labor and human rights (see pages 18–19).
• 1,545 Hess employees globally
• $539 million in employee wages and benefits (U.S.)
• 5,270 hours of learning and development
• $2,120 million in total supplier spend across 3,020 suppliers
 
SHAREHOLDERS
Hess is committed to delivering long term value to our shareholders. We continue 
to successfully execute our long term strategy of disciplined capital allocation, 
focusing only on low cost, high return opportunities and providing increasing 
cash returns to our shareholders, while investing in our people and business. 
Furthermore, our efforts to lower our costs and our emissions intensity are 
aligned with the energy transition needed to achieve long term sustainable 
development (see pages 49–50).
• $311 million in dividends paid to investors
• Three year total shareholder return of 52% for the 2019–2021 performance 
cycle at year end 2021, second among our 2019 peer groupCOMMUNITIES
Our community investments are designed to make long lasting, positive impacts 
on the communities where we operate. We seek to develop the local workforce 
to enable upward mobility into higher paying jobs in our industry and supply chain 
(see pages 19, 24–25 and 36).
• $8.8 million in social investments directed toward communities in Louisiana, 
North Dakota and Texas
• $4.2 million in social investments by our joint venture in Guyana
• 18,800 hours of volunteering by our workforce, with the majority in Texas
• 92% local nationals employed in Malaysia
• 93% of our total supplier spend was on purchases made within the same 
country in which we were doing business
 
SOCIETY
We contribute value to society at large through the direct economic value we 
generate, the affordable energy we produce and our commitment to operate 
responsibly and advance sustainable development (see pages 8–9, 21–25 and 53).
• $2,012 million in capital and exploration expenditures
• $530 million in royalties, taxes and other remittances to governments
• $15.7 million in social investments, including $4.5 million going toward the 
Salk Institute’s Harnessing Plants InitiativeThe following are some of the primary ways Hess delivered value for our stakeholders in 2021.Delivering Value for Our Stakeholders6| 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORTApproach to Reporting
such as stakeholder inclusiveness, 
sustainability context, materiality and 
completeness of information. We 
conducted a materiality assessment in 
2020, which considered our operations 
and performance in the wider context 
of sustainability issues as well as new 
and emerging issues important to our 
stakeholders. Engagement with Hess’ 
stakeholders – which include employees, 
suppliers, customers, communities, 
shareholders, government bodies, 
nongovernmental organizations, industry 
peers and academics – enables us 
to strengthen our license to operate 
and brings increased focus to our 
transparency goals.
Our materiality assessment, facilitated by 
third party experts, helped us prioritize 
the key sustainability topics most 
relevant to our company. The assessment 
was consistent with approaches and 
guidance provided by leading standards 
bodies, including GRI, IPIECA and 
the International Organization for 
Standardization; it also considered the 
SASB materiality profile for the oil and gas 
industry as an additional reference point.
The materiality assessment informed our 
forward looking EHS & SR strategy, which is 
described more fully in the section Strategy 
and Progress (see pages 8–9), and helped  
us define the boundaries of this report.  
This strategy is designed to address the 
eight most material sustainability issues for 
our company, which include:
• Climate Related Risk and GHG Emissions
• Community and Stakeholder Engagement
• Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
• Emergency Preparedness and Response
• Occupational Health and Safety
• Process Safety and Release Prevention
• Supply Chain and Contractor 
Management
• Water Managementreporting guidance documents, templates 
and other engagements listed below.
• Sustainability Reporting Guidance for 
the Oil and Gas Industry, which was 
jointly developed by IPIECA (the global 
oil and gas industry organization for 
environmental and social issues), the 
American Petroleum Institute (API)  
and the International Association of  
Oil & Gas Producers 
• API Template for GHG Reporting, a set 
of greenhouse gas (GHG) indicators 
that API member companies, including 
Hess, have agreed represents the 
core, or foundational, indicators for 
individual company public reporting 
of companywide GHG emissions and 
mitigation activities
• The United Nations (U.N.) Global 
Compact’s Ten Principles
• Recommendations from the Task 
Force on Climate-Related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD)
• Oil and gas industry metrics from the 
Sustainability Accounting Standards 
Board (SASB)
• World Economic Forum (WEF) 
Stakeholder Capitalism Core Metrics, 
a set of metrics drawn from existing 
voluntary standards and frameworks such 
as GRI, SASB and TCFD that is aimed at 
strengthening sustainability benchmarking 
for companies and investors, to which 
Hess has publicly committed
• Key external environmental, social and 
governance ratings and scorecards
An index of GRI, IPIECA, WEF, SASB and  
U.N. Global Compact reporting indicators  
is available at hess.com/sustainability/
sustainability-reports and our response  
to the API Template for GHG Reporting is 
available at hess.com/sustainability/
climate-change-energy
MATERIALITY
We determined the content for this report 
by applying the GRI’s reporting principles In this report, we provide descriptions of 
Hess’ environment, health, safety and 
social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy 
and 2021 performance regarding material 
economic, social and environmental issues. 
Our annual report, U.S. Securities and 
Exchange Commission Form 10-K filing 
and proxy statement detail our financial and 
governance information and can be found 
on our website.
We provide further detail on our 
midstream operations, including 
segregated performance data, in a 
separate companion sustainability report 
available on the Hess Midstream LP 
website at hessmidstream.gcs-web.com/
sustainability-report .
Additional sustainability and investor 
information is available at hess.com/investors
REPORTING STANDARDS
This report was prepared in accordance 
with the Core option of the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards.  
Our reporting is also informed by the 
Offshore Operations,  
Gulf of Mexico7 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | Approach to Reporting
See our expanded performance data at  
hess.com/sustainability/performance-data/
key-sustainability-metrics
RESTATEMENTS
We believe our approach to restating data 
complies with the GRI Standards’ principle 
of comparability and specific disclosure 
regarding restatements of information, 
as well as IPIECA guidance. For GHG 
emissions, in cases of acquisitions and 
divestitures and other source ownership and 
control changes, we adjust our base year 
emissions if the change exceeds 10% of 
the original base year emissions total. The 
exact timing of the adjustment depends on 
several factors, as described in the Hess 
GHG Inventory Protocol. We also review 
and adjust targets included as part of our 
annual incentive plan formula to account 
for divestitures as needed.
This report includes partial year 
performance data (January–August 2021) 
for Denmark, as we divested our interests 
in that asset in August 2021.
Access the Hess GHG Inventory Protocol  
at hess.com/sustainability/climate- 
change-energyWhile these eight topics will be the focus of 
our strategic sustainability actions through 
2025, many of the other relevant topics 
included in our materiality assessment 
are important to our stakeholders and 
our company and will continue to be 
addressed in Hess’ business processes 
and external reporting.
As has been our practice, we plan to continue 
annual, document based assessments of 
key stakeholder perspectives and Hess’ 
operational and regulatory risks to validate 
our top material issues for our sustainability 
reporting and strategy.
See reporting boundaries for each of  
these issues at hess.com/sustainability/
approach-to-reporting
BOUNDARY SETTING
The business units and assets operated by 
Hess Corporation and/or our subsidiaries 
during calendar year 2021 are included 
within the scope of this report, unless 
otherwise indicated. This includes Hess 
Midstream LP (also referred to in this report 
as Hess Midstream), although we publish 
an annual companion sustainability report 
for that entity with segregated midstream 
performance data. Data presented are 
gross figures from operated facilities, unless 
specified otherwise.
We report GHG emissions on both 
an operated and equity share basis in 
accordance with the GRI G4 Oil and 
Gas Sector Supplement  and the IPIECA 
Sustainability Reporting Guidance for the 
Oil and Gas Industry (4th edition, 2020), 
Module 3: Climate Change and Energy , as 
well as IPIECA’s 2016 report Estimating 
Petroleum Industry Value Chain (Scope 3) 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions . We report 
social investments for our operated assets, 
joint ventures and nonoperated facilities 
in which we hold a significant interest. 
Our workforce metrics include data for 
contractors whose hours we track.INTERNAL QUALITY ASSURANCE
Our internal information systems promote 
the centralized collection of data from Hess 
operated and joint venture assets around 
the world. In order to evaluate accuracy and 
reliability, we conduct quality assurance/
quality control reviews and validation of both 
aggregated and asset and facility level data. 
Individual numbers in the charts, tables 
and text may not precisely sum to the total 
amounts shown due to rounding. All currency 
references in the report are in U.S. dollars.
EXTERNAL ASSURANCE
This report, including our sustainability 
data and self declared GRI “in accordance” 
status, was assured by ERM Certification 
and Verification Services (ERM CVS) 
(see page 68). This external review helps 
to ensure consistent and objective data 
collection and reporting of our sustainability 
performance.
In addition to providing assurance in relation 
to our sustainability report, ERM CVS also 
conducts a separate verification of the GHG 
emissions data provided in the report and in 
our CDP Climate Change response.
Planning Meeting, Houston, Texas8| 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORTOur environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy is focused on our eight most material sustainability topics. 
Our related strategic actions are not the sum of all activities that will drive continuous improvement in each of these areas, but are 
instead the specific areas targeted to drive progress or to maintain or achieve leadership among our industry peers for each of our 
material issues. Our management approach, annual performance (including achievements and challenges in 2021) and forward plans  
for a broader set of issues relevant to our company and our stakeholders are described further in this report and on our website at  
hess.com/sustainability .
The table below summarizes the initiatives, goals and targets that we have established as part of our 2025 EHS & SR strategy and 
indicates their alignment with and support of the United Nations (U.N.) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Targets that are part of 
Hess’ annual incentive plan (AIP) performance metrics for 2022 are indicated with “AIP.”
Hess’ Material Issues  
& Relevant U.N. SDGsKey Actions to Enhance Hess’ EHS & SR Performance 2021  
ProgressDiscussion  
(Page #)
Climate Related Risk and 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Enhance disclosure in 2021 regarding alignment with trade associations on climate related issues  
and position on public policies that would set a carbon price16–18, 39, 51
Enhance data collection methodologies in 2021 to enable a direct linkage between the new 
enterprisewide climate related target and employee compensation39–40, 42, 49
Align carbon pricing for internal processes in 2021 for decisions on significant new investments and 
scenario planning methodology13, 42, 46
Strengthen governance and climate strategy oversight by continuing to foster climate literacy at the 
Board level and through a newly formed, executive led climate strategy task force in 2021 and beyond39–40, 42
Evaluate the feasibility of achieving net zero greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 2050 in 2021 and 
beyond42, 51
Continue to look for opportunities for Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions and flaring reductions in 2021 
and beyond53–57
Continue to support external climate initiatives such as ONE Future and The Environmental 
Partnership in 2021 and beyond55–56
QUANTITATIVE TARGETS
•  Achieve a 7% flaring rate from wells and pads, as reported to the North Dakota Industrial 
Commission, in 2021 (AIP)49–51
• Reduce routine flaring intensity to 5% in our Bakken, North Dakota operations, in 2022 (AIP)
•  Reduce operated Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity by approximately 50% from 2017  
to 17 kilograms carbon dioxide equivalent per barrel of oil equivalent by 2025
•  Reduce methane emissions intensity by approximately 50% from 2017 to an intensity of 0.19%  
by 2025
•  Continue to improve performance related to reducing methane emissions through ONE Future 
sectoral targets by 2025
• Achieve zero routine flaring at our operated assets by the end of 2025
Process Safety and  
Release Prevention
Enhance Tier II Assurance through major accident event barrier health reviews in 2021 30–31
Integrate process safety fundamentals into safety training to increase process safety  
awareness by 202327
Complete the rollout of the electronic management of change system, where applicable,  
and the rollout of the electronic permit to work system across onshore assets, both by 202331
QUANTITATIVE TARGETS
• Achieve a 10% reduction in loss of primary containment rate, year over year, in 2021 | 2022 (AIP)  | 61
•  Achieve 99% completion of all safety critical equipment maintenance and corrective work orders  
with performance standards in our work order system in 2021 | 2022 (AIP) | 30Strategy and Progress
  Goal achieved as planned    Goal partially achieved or still in progress    Goal not achieved as planned    Goal not yet started in 20219 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | Hess’ Material Issues  
& Relevant U.N. SDGsKey Actions to Enhance Hess’ EHS & SR Performance 2021  
ProgressDiscussion  
(Page #)
Occupational Health  
and Safety
Continue to elevate Hess’ safety culture by conducting an enterprisewide safety culture  
assessment and implementing updated safety leadership training by 202327–28
Evaluate emerging technologies and consider implementation into Hess’ standard operating  
practices in 2021 and beyond28
QUANTITATIVE TARGETS
• Achieve a 10% reduction in our workforce total recordable incident rate, year over year, in 2021 | 2022   | 30
•  Achieve a 10% reduction in our severe and significant safety incident rate, year over year,  
in 2021 | 2022 (AIP) | 
Emergency Preparedness  
and Response
Enhance the tracking, reporting, closure and validation of actions identified as part of training  
and drill after-action reviews in 202132
Continue the development of competencies to maintain asset level capability by 2025 32
Implement learnings from participation in external networks related to the latest technologies  
and processes by 202532
Water Management
 Enhance the chemical selection process for hydraulic fracturing to further evaluate risks and water 
quality impact by 202360
Develop decision making criteria or thresholds for proactive water management projects by 2023 59–60
Identify and prioritize mitigations related to water stress and scarcity by 2023 59–60
Diversity, Equity  
and Inclusion
Continue to engage employees of diverse backgrounds through various initiatives in 2021 11–12, 35–36
Progress efforts of the newly formed diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) task forces in 2021,  
further embedding strategic initiatives into forward planning11–12, 35–36
Build DEI elements into Hess’ people strategy in 2021 and beyond 11–12, 35–36
Supply Chain and  
Contractor Management
Incorporate environmental, social and governance (ESG) criteria in the procurement and supplier 
evaluation processes by 202318–19
Develop a program to include diverse suppliers in the procurement process and increase diverse 
supplier spend that is aligned with ESG and DEI goals by 202312, 19
Enhance contractors’ shared responsibility and accountability for safety performance through tools 
such as integrated safety committees and the behavioral safety observation program by 202333
Community and  
Stakeholder Engagement
Enhance the consistency of social investment spend tracking and reporting in 2021 24
Develop an outcomes measurement framework for key social investment programs in 2021 24
Refresh the Social Responsibility and Human Rights Policies to align with the company’s current  
asset base and strategic objectives by 202321
Enhance the reporting and communication of social risks through our enterprise risk management 
process by 202512–13, 23–24
  Goal achieved as planned    Goal partially achieved or still in progress    Goal not achieved as planned    Goal not yet started in 2021Offshore Operations, Gulf of Thailand11 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | How We Operate
other financial matters, such as tax 
planning, compliance and reporting 
for income taxes. It also oversees 
compliance and risk management.
The Board’s EHS Committee leads the 
Board’s oversight of Hess’ sustainability 
practices, working with the full Board and 
senior management so that sustainability 
risks and opportunities are taken into 
account when making strategic decisions. 
The EHS Committee assists the Board 
in identifying, evaluating and monitoring 
EHS strategies and material risks with the 
potential to affect the people, environment 
or communities where we operate or our 
company’s business activities, performance 
or reputation. In 2021, the EHS Committee’s 
charter was amended to further clarify the 
Committee’s oversight of climate change 
related policies and practices. The EHS 
Committee makes recommendations to the 
full Board on how to address EHS strategies 
and risks and also monitors the company’s 
compliance with such policies, programs 
and practices. The EHS Committee 
advises the Board’s Compensation and 
Management Development Committee 
regarding executive compensation 
measures to advance the EHS goals of 
the company. The EHS Committee also 
reviews emergency response preparedness 
and planning and EHS legal and regulatory 
matters that could affect the company’s 
business and operations, including our 
ongoing response to COVID-19.
The EHS Committee met three times 
in 2021, and each committee member 
attended at least two of the meetings. 
Our Vice President of EHS facilitated 
the EHS Committee meetings, which 
included a number of topics such as 
EHS performance and strategic priorities; 
COVID-19 response; EHS & SR risks 
within our enterprise risk management 
(ERM) framework; regulatory matters; 
environmental, social and governance 
reporting; climate change strategic 
actions; and establishing and monitoring 
progress toward greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions and flaring targets.We aim to help meet the world’s growing 
energy needs in a way that protects the 
health and safety of our people, safeguards 
the environment and contributes to the 
sustainability of the communities where we 
operate while delivering long term value to 
our shareholders and other stakeholders. 
Our expectations for sustainable 
management and performance are defined 
by the Hess Values, our Code of Business 
Conduct and Ethics (Code of Conduct), 
Social Responsibility (SR) Policy, Human 
Rights Policy, and Environment, Health 
and Safety (EHS) Policy. We apply these 
principles to key company processes and 
initiatives, as described in this section.
GOVERNANCE
The highest level of oversight at Hess rests 
with the Board of Directors, which has four 
standing committees: the Audit Committee, 
the Compensation and Management 
Development Committee, the EHS 
Committee and the Corporate Governance 
and Nominating Committee.
See Hess’ committee charters and Corporate 
Governance Guidelines at hess.com/investors
Board Accountability
Hess’ Board is actively engaged in 
overseeing the company’s sustainability 
strategy and performance, working 
alongside senior management to evaluate 
sustainability risks and global scenarios in 
making strategic decisions, including those 
related to climate change. Our independent 
Chairman periodically accompanies 
our CEO and other members of senior 
management to meet with investors to 
solicit shareholder views on various topics, 
including the environment, health, safety and 
social responsibility (EHS & SR). For more 
information on Board involvement in climate 
change related issues, see the Climate 
Change and Energy section (page 42).
The Board’s Audit Committee oversees 
the integrity of the company’s financial 
statements, financial reporting practices, 
systems of internal accounting and 
financial and disclosure controls, and Each member of the EHS Committee 
is independent and qualified under the 
standards established by applicable law, 
stock exchange listing standards and 
Hess’ Corporate Governance Guidelines. 
Committee members have extensive oil 
and gas industry experience, including 
operational, regulatory and financial 
expertise. To supplement the expertise 
of EHS Committee members and the 
full Board of Directors, Hess brings in 
internal and external subject matter 
experts to brief members on current 
and developing issues relevant to our 
business, such as climate change. Board 
members, together with our executive 
leadership, also participate in field visits 
to Hess operated and nonoperated 
assets to better understand our key EHS 
strategies and risks. During these visits, 
the EHS Committee engages with the 
Hess workforce and observes how Hess 
is managing and mitigating EHS risks and 
opportunities, such as leveraging Lean 
and technology focused initiatives in the 
field. While field visits were deferred in 2021 
due to the COVID-19 pandemic, plans are 
underway to recommence this practice when 
it is deemed safe and appropriate to do so.
Executive Oversight
The company is managed by an Executive 
Committee, which is composed of Hess’ 
most senior executives and chaired by our 
CEO. The Executive Committee focuses on 
operational, strategic, financial, EHS and 
social issues and is the highest approval 
body before the Board. The Executive 
Committee holds regularly scheduled 
meetings, and our Chief Operating Officer 
chairs an operating subcommittee of the 
Executive Committee that also meets 
routinely to discuss these and other matters.
See information on our approach to 
sustainable tax policy at hess.com/
sustainability/how-we-operate/tax-practices
DIVERSITY, EQUITY  
AND INCLUSION
Hess has a longstanding commitment 
to diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI), 12| 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORTHow We Operate
• Supplier Diversity: We began establishing 
a multiyear roadmap to promote 
economic equity in support of diverse 
businesses. In 2021, we increased diverse 
supplier participation in direct business 
opportunities and engaged our nondiverse 
strategic suppliers to improve our indirect 
spend with their diverse suppliers.
Based on the task forces’ recommendations, 
we hired two dedicated diversity experts to 
continue progressing our DEI and supplier 
diversity strategies.
Hess’ senior management is actively 
engaged in our DEI plans and programs, 
with oversight by our Board of Directors. 
Our DEI Council, comprising the executive 
sponsors of our employee resource groups 
and other Hess executives, provides 
business and leadership guidance that 
helps advance and steer DEI while  
working to ensure alignment with business 
priorities. Additionally, DEI progress is 
reported to our Board.
KEY ENTERPRISE PROCESSES
Several key processes in our company help 
to identify and mitigate risks in potential, 
new and existing operations; achieve 
operational excellence; and evaluate 
investment opportunities.
While these processes are focused on our 
operated assets, it is important to note that 
we also review potential risks and conduct 
assurance reviews for our nonoperated 
assets, which represent a significant 
portion of Hess’ capital spend. We 
generally prioritize four main objectives for 
reviews of nonoperated assets: making a 
positive contribution to local communities; 
influencing project outcomes by focusing 
on issues with the greatest potential impact; 
establishing governance structures and 
project assurance plans; and documenting 
and internally sharing high value lessons 
learned. See pages 15 and 28 for more 
information on our assurance process for 
nonoperated assets.
Enterprise Risk Management
Hess applies a comprehensive, 
standardized approach to identifying which we believe creates value for all of 
our stakeholders and is essential to being 
a socially responsible and sustainable 
enterprise. Our focus is on fostering a 
diverse and inclusive work environment in 
which all Hess employees have fair and 
equitable opportunities to achieve their 
full potential.
Externally, our company has a long history 
of social investment programs in the 
communities where we operate to make 
a positive and lasting impact through 
education and work skill development, both 
of which are fundamental to social equity 
and sustainable economic growth. We also 
promote diversity, equity and sustainability 
in our supply chain and industry to help 
diverse business owners grow and thrive. 
(See pages 35–36 for further detail on our 
workforce DEI efforts, 19 for further detail 
on our supplier diversity and sustainability 
efforts and 24–25 for more on our DEI 
related community investments and 
partnerships.)
In 2021, we engaged in numerous 
strategic actions to advance DEI and drive 
progress. Our three DEI focused task 
forces, comprising employees from a mix 
of assets and functions, made progress in 
the following key areas:
• Recruitment: We are focused on 
ensuring diverse candidate slates and 
panels and expanding diversity outreach 
and partnership to build a diverse talent 
pipeline. In 2021, we successfully 
expanded our diversity and outreach 
partnerships and made year over year 
improvements in representation of women 
by approximately 4% globally and of 
people of color by approximately 9% in 
the U.S.
• Employee Development: We are working 
to build inclusion skills and capability and 
develop talent management programs 
that help improve diversity representation 
and career growth. In 2021, we achieved 
approximately 99% completion of 
DEI training, launched our Inclusive 
Leadership program and launched five 
new employee resource groups.and managing risks of all types across 
our business, including those related 
to process safety, climate change and 
cybersecurity. Our ERM program, which 
includes consideration of EHS & SR risks 
along with other business considerations 
such as hedging strategies and risks related 
to market trends, delivers a framework 
that enables Hess’ Board of Directors and 
executive leadership to make risk informed 
business decisions. Our Board of Directors 
has ultimate oversight over the ERM 
process and is charged with understanding 
the key risks affecting the company’s 
business and how those risks can be 
managed. Annually, our Chief Risk Officer 
provides the Board’s Audit Committee with 
a comprehensive review of Hess’ enterprise 
level risks, the status of the ERM program 
and risk management strategies utilized 
under our Risk Management Standard. The 
status of EHS & SR risks and mitigations 
is also discussed at the Board’s EHS 
Committee meetings, as appropriate. 
Enterprise level risks, including the relative 
risks of assets and projects within the 
portfolio, are discussed periodically by 
the full Board of Directors. Corporate Risk 
oversees day-to-day implementation of the 
ERM process, including developing relevant 
policies and standards and working with 
Internal Audit to verify compliance.
Hess’ ERM framework is used to develop 
a holistic risk profile for each asset and 
major capital project, drawing input from 
subject matter experts, performance 
data, incident investigations, lessons 
learned and recent audits. In these risk 
assessments, we identify risks and 
assess their likelihood and potential 
impact to people, the environment, our 
reputation and our business.
Our Risk Management Standard, which 
applies to all assets and major capital 
projects, helps to align and integrate risk 
management across the company. The 
standard establishes a risk framework, 
accountabilities and expectations across 
the organization to provide a consistent and 
integrated risk management process across 
our assets, projects and business functions.13 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | How We Operate
objectivity in our investment decisions 
by including those who are not directly 
involved with the asset or project in 
internal reviews. Following this process 
helps to provide assurance that our capital 
allocation and portfolio management 
decisions are based on independently 
reviewed, high quality input.
The value assurance reviews are risk based 
and focus on economics; subsurface and 
facility design; safety, environmental and 
socioeconomic considerations; regulatory 
requirements; and other technical and 
nontechnical risks. In order to evaluate the 
potential impact of carbon cost on project 
economics, we apply either actual carbon 
pricing where a regulatory framework for 
it exists or – where a framework does not 
exist – we evaluate the potential impact 
of carbon cost as set out in our planning 
guidance. In April 2021, we updated our 
planning guidance to expand the evaluation 
for all significant investment decisions to 
include a sensitivity using the International 
Energy Agency’s Sustainable Development 
Scenario carbon pricing (see pages 42 and 46). 
Through our value assurance process, we 
bring in technical experts from across the 
company who are chosen based on how 
their skills and experience contribute to the 
project under review. Including experts from As part of our ERM process, all assets are 
required to have a risk assessment and 
risk plan in place that are refreshed at least 
annually. In addition, major capital projects 
and new development opportunities 
that go through the value assurance 
process (described below) must have risk 
assessments completed prior to each 
value assurance stage gate. Risk registers 
and reports that are generated through 
these processes are reviewed and updated 
periodically as part of asset and major 
project operating rhythm meetings.
Also, functional risk assessments are 
required as part of each asset’s or 
project’s risk plan. Examples include 
identifying and validating concept selection 
or confirming the technical basis of design 
for a facility.
Climate risks are considered throughout 
enterprise and functional risk 
assessments from the perspective of 
potential financial, physical, reputational 
and regulatory impacts. Further discussion 
of our approach to managing climate risks 
can be found on pages 42–48.
Value Assurance
Major investment opportunities are 
assessed through our value assurance 
process. This process provides increased across the organization creates learning 
opportunities for participants to take back 
to their respective assets and functions 
and apply to future assurance processes. 
The value assurance process is closely 
aligned with our ERM process so that we 
can apply consistent methodologies and 
criteria to risks across our company.
Due Diligence
Our due diligence processes help us 
assess nontechnical, aboveground risks 
when evaluating opportunities, including 
those in new geographies. Through 
these processes, subject matter experts 
from various functions across Hess, and 
third party subject matter experts where 
necessary, evaluate our future operations 
in a particular location through a detailed 
risk questionnaire that accounts for social, 
environmental, legal, external affairs, 
compliance, commercial and supply chain 
risks. The purpose of this due diligence, 
which draws on available information 
from governmental and nongovernmental 
organizations, is to categorize each risk as 
high, medium or low based on severity and 
whether the risk can be easily mitigated.
Through these due diligence processes, 
we endeavor to enhance the quality 
and breadth of information available 
to Hess leadership for the evaluation 
of new opportunities. The processes 
also help the project team mitigate 
identified risks if a commitment is made 
to proceed. Ultimately, the processes 
are complementary to our ERM and 
value assurance workflows, utilizing the 
necessary information at key decision 
points in our investment and project 
planning processes.
Lean and Innovation
At Hess, we apply Lean thinking and 
methodologies across our operations 
to eliminate waste, improve safety and 
reliability, drive continuous improvement 
and create value for our shareholders, 
business partners, employees and other 
stakeholders. With over a decade of 
successes and lessons learned, Lean is 
integrated into our company culture and 
Midstream Operations, North Dakota14| 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORTHow We Operate
our workforce is empowered to be an 
“army of problem solvers” focused on 
continuous improvement.
We see innovation as a complementary 
mindset to Lean thinking that will help 
us achieve significant performance 
improvements. Through Lean 
thinking, we encourage our people to 
identify opportunities for incremental 
improvements – ways to do what they 
already do better. An innovation focus 
helps our people think of entirely new 
ways to do what they do, producing step 
change improvements. Our innovation 
guidelines establish a common framework 
for driving innovation and integration with 
Lean across our organization.
Hess uses an innovation funnel process 
to collect ideas from employees and 
a variety of relevant industry sources, 
identify ideas that have the potential 
to add value, rank ideas for future 
development and select those that align 
with our priorities for piloting. This process 
helps formalize and organize innovative 
thinking and drives ideas from conception 
to implementation. Since 2019, our pilot 
projects have been focused on some 
of the greatest challenges of the oil and 
gas industry, including the lower carbon 
energy transition, subsurface productivity 
and autonomous operations. To help guide and focus our innovation efforts,  
we have also developed key processes 
and technology enablers that will help 
drive performance breakthroughs in each 
area and have expanded our pilots. 
We continue to operationalize these 
principles into how we work, including 
through developing Lean and innovation 
leaders, fostering internal collaboration 
networks and sharing learnings from  
pilot projects across the organization.
See details on another key process, reliability 
operations, at hess.com/sustainability/
how-we-operate/key-enterprise-processes
HESS OPERATIONAL 
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
We utilize the Hess Operational 
Management System (HOMS) as the single, 
enterprisewide system that establishes 
a common framework outlining how we 
address operational risk management, 
process safety, environmental responsibility, 
and management of employees and 
contractors, as well as the efficient and 
reliable design and operation of our 
assets. This integrated and consistent 
enterprisewide approach is designed to 
help us manage risks throughout a project 
and asset lifecycle; coordinate technical 
expertise, standards and processes across 
the organization; and align asset level operations with enterprisewide corporate 
standards and business priorities.
We continue to evolve and advance our 
management system to align with Hess’ 
portfolio and organizational structure and 
to support our performance objectives. 
Our teams of functional leaders (e.g., EHS, 
Wells, Reliability Operations, Projects 
and Facilities Engineering, and Global 
Supply Chain) provide expertise in key 
functional areas within each asset and 
provide oversight and assurance across 
the company. The Heads of each functional 
area are responsible for overseeing activities 
for that area across the company, verifying 
that relevant standards and other applicable 
governance documents are applied as 
appropriate and working with each asset to 
optimize safety, quality, delivery and cost.
The Heads of each function are 
supported by technical authorities and 
subject matter experts – many of whom 
are embedded directly into our assets. 
Together with leadership from each asset, 
these individuals form the “Heads of” 
and Technical Authority Network, which 
supports operations across the company. 
This group – and other functional leaders 
and subject matter experts as relevant –  
meets monthly to optimize synergies 
across our functions and assets, support 
enterprisewide initiatives and promote 
transparency of activities.
In 2021, representatives from various 
Hess functions continued the HOMS 
optimization exercise, integrating 
standalone functional requirements into 
cross functional standards for nine of 
the 14 HOMS Element Standards. For 
example, we merged EHS, operations, 
design and other existing function 
specific requirements and expectations 
for management of change into a single 
integrated and cross functional standard. 
We are in the process of delivering 
the nine integrated standards to our 
operated assets for adoption. In 2021, 
we also began developing standard 
specific guidelines to assist the assets 
with implementation. We will continue Taking a “Learn by Doing” Approach to Innovation
Piloting high potential new ideas is a key element of our approach to innovation that helps build a 
culture that supports creativity and the cross pollination of ideas and cultivates a learning mentality. 
For example, in 2021, members of the maintenance, reliability and integrity team in our Bakken 
upstream asset identified an opportunity to reduce energy demand by capturing the downstroke 
energy of the up and down movement of our pumping units. They developed and piloted a project for 
capturing and storing this energy from pumping units and connecting them into a common electrical 
system to move regenerated energy between units. We ultimately determined that retrofitting the 
large number of existing pumping units to use this system was cost prohibitive. But, following our 
learn by doing approach to innovation, we transferred the successful elements of this trial into a new 
idea: installing energy capture systems directly into pumping unit drives. We are currently piloting this 
idea at several pumping units in the Bakken to determine the extent of energy savings and will then 
determine a plan forward.15 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | How We Operate
to integrate the standalone functional 
requirements into cross functional 
standards for the remaining five HOMS 
Element Standards in 2022, and “check 
and adjust” our processes and practices 
throughout the implementation process.
HOMS Assurance 
Our ongoing assurance efforts help 
align expectations and requirements 
such as HOMS across our operated and 
nonoperated assets and drive continuous 
improvement. Results are reported to and 
reviewed several times per year by the EHS 
Committee of Hess’ Board of Directors.
In 2021, we began implementing our 
revised three tiered assurance framework 
in alignment with HOMS Element 13: 
Assurance. Tier I audits, conducted by 
the Corporate Audit Department, include 
“health of process” audits to provide 
reasonable assurance that the Tier II and 
Tier III processes and practices effectively 
conform to Hess policies and applicable 
regulations and industry standards. 
Under the new framework, Tier II 
Assurance includes independent 
audits and collaborative assessments 
involving assets to confirm proper EHS 
& SR, major accident event (MAE) and 
license to operate risk management. 
Tier II Assurance covers the activities of 
various functions under HOMS such as 
Operations, Wells, Projects, Facilities and 
Engineering, EHS, Operational Technology/
Cybersecurity and Global Supply Chain. 
The assurance is performed by technical 
authorities and subject matter experts who 
evaluate conformance with corporate and 
asset level standards and procedures, as 
well as with applicable regulations and 
industry standards, and assist the assets 
in addressing identified improvement 
opportunities. Audits and assessments 
are performed following a risk based plan 
that covers various topics under HOMS. 
Tier III Assurance remains unchanged in 
the revised framework and constitutes 
routine self assessments by assets against 
corporate HOMS Standards, corporate 
and asset level procedures, regulations 
and applicable industry standards. In 2021, we completed assurance activities 
across all three tiers. At the Tier I level, we 
reviewed the health of the Tier II Assurance 
program and recommended measures to 
enhance governance and sustainability, 
which we plan to address in 2022. Tier II 
Assurance efforts at our operated assets 
covered key risk based Hess Rules 
and other topics such as barrier health, 
safety system bypass, drilling operations 
readiness, dropped object prevention, 
lifting and hoisting management, 
emergency response and preparedness, 
spill prevention and response, produced 
water and waste management, stormwater 
management and cybersecurity. We 
also conducted the first Tier II Assurance 
effort at our nonoperated joint venture 
(NOJV) in Guyana in 2021 with a 
review of the process safety and MAE 
prevention aspects of our NOJV operator’s 
management systems, including risk 
management, competency assurance 
and learning, emergency preparedness 
and response, design operation and 
maintenance, management of change and 
contractor management. Tier III Assurance 
efforts at our operated assets included 
behavioral safety observations, leadership 
site visits, hazard observations, drilling rig 
inspections and other reviews, as well as 
formal audits and inspections by external 
authorities such as certifying agencies 
and regulators.
BUSINESS CONDUCT
The Hess Code of Conduct outlines 
the business conduct and behaviors 
we expect of our employees, officers, 
directors and contractors. Any individual 
or company working on behalf of Hess 
or our subsidiaries is expected to follow 
similar principles. Failure to comply with 
the Code of Conduct and related policies 
or applicable laws may result in disciplinary 
action, including termination.
All of our key compliance policies and 
procedures are described in our Code of 
Conduct. These policies and procedures 
are communicated to and available for all 
employees globally. Our Global Compliance 
team establishes, maintains and enforces the compliance policies and procedures, 
as well as other processes and initiatives,  
to prevent and detect compliance 
violations. Our aim is to promote an 
organizational culture that is committed 
to ethical conduct and compliance with 
the law. The Chief Compliance Officer 
updates the Audit Committee of the 
Board of Directors on a regular basis.
To continuously enforce compliance 
controls and embrace best practices, 
our Global Compliance team focuses 
on internal investigations and antibribery 
and anticorruption (ABAC) programs, as 
well as other enterprise programs and 
systems. In 2021, our Global Compliance 
team investigated all issues and allegations 
referred to the team through the various 
channels available to our workforce, 
including our dedicated compliance 
hotline. In addition, Global Compliance 
continued to manage the company’s 
automated approval systems – which are 
used to review and approve higher risk 
transactions and relationships with our 
business partners – including our system 
for the disclosure, review and approval or 
mitigation of potential conflicts of interest.
Providing employees with effective 
training on the Hess Values is a key 
element of strengthening our culture so 
that employees understand and embody 
the values in their daily work. As part of 
this effort, our Global Compliance team 
has developed in depth online trainings 
on our Code of Conduct and our ABAC 
Policy and Procedure. At year end 2021, 
99% of active employees had completed 
the Code of Conduct training, and 99% 
had completed the ABAC training.
See more detail on ABAC at hess.com/
sustainability/how-we-operate/anti-bribery-
and-anti-corruption-compliance
POLITICAL ENGAGEMENT
HessPAC
HessPAC serves as the political 
action committee (PAC) of Hess’ U.S. 
employees and acts in full compliance 
with U.S. federal and state campaign 
finance and election laws. HessPAC is 16| 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORTHow We Operate
used to promote the interests of Hess 
Corporation. In 2021, HessPAC continued 
in its fourth full cycle of operation, 
generated approximately $88,600 in 
member contributions and distributed 
$79,500 in political contributions in a 
bipartisan manner to candidates.
HessPAC publicly discloses all of its 
contributions to political candidates, 
parties and committees. Its federal 
contributions are accessible via the U.S. 
Federal Election Commission’s website 
(www.fec.gov). In 2021, HessPAC made 
one state level contribution in North 
Dakota, totaling $2,500, which is publicly 
available on the appropriate state website. 
As legally permitted, Hess corporate 
funds were used to provide administrative 
support for HessPAC. Both direct and 
indirect corporate political contributions 
are prohibited by Hess company policy. 
HessPAC permits political contributions 
only through voluntary employee funded 
PAC contributions.
Advocacy
Hess regularly communicates with an array 
of stakeholders in the public policy arena, 
including legislators and regulators both in 
the U.S. and internationally. Hess executives 
and our External Affairs function engage 
with legislative and regulatory institutions 
to offer a unique perspective on energy 
policy issues, to better understand federal 
and state requirements applicable to our 
operations and to mitigate potential risks to 
the company’s license to operate.
Consistent with Hess’ principles and 
values, our legislative and regulatory 
engagement is done in accordance with  
all applicable laws and regulations.
Our commitment to transparency also 
means that the company fully complies 
with all lobbying reporting requirements 
outlined in the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 
1995 and all amendments made to the law 
by P.L. 110-81, the Honest Leadership and 
Open Government Act of 2007. In 2021, 
the company’s lobbying expenses totaled 
approximately $633,700. This includes fees and expenses for external consultants and 
trade association dues used for lobbying 
purposes, as required by the Lobbying 
Disclosure Act. We also comply with any 
and all relevant state and foreign legal and 
regulatory requirements concerning direct 
and indirect lobbying activities and contacts.
Hess belongs to a number of trade 
associations – organized under section 
501(c)(6) of the Internal Revenue Code –  
that include our industry peers and 
other companies in related sectors. Trade 
associations provide forums through 
which companies across the oil and 
gas industry can develop unified public 
policy agendas, exchange technical and 
industry best practices and approach 
issues relevant to our business with a 
common voice. We require all our trade 
associations to publicly disclose all 
expenses related to lobbying activities, as 
outlined by the Lobbying Disclosure Act. 
Our trade associations’ lobbying activities 
accounted for approximately 22% of our 
total lobbying spend in 2021.
In 2021, none of Hess’ membership fees or 
dues were used by any of our associations 
for direct or indirect political advocacy. 
Furthermore, no payments made by 
Hess to 501(c)(6) or 501(c)(4) organizations 
were used for political purposes. A list 
of memberships and associations that 
received more than $50,000 from Hess in 
2021 is shown below.
2021 Memberships and Associations
• American Petroleum Institute
• Center for Offshore Safety
• Center for Strategic and International Studies
• Council on Foreign Relations
• Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative
• Independent Petroleum Association of America
• Marine Well Containment Company
• Meridian International Center
• National Ocean Industries Association
• National Petroleum Council
• Oil Gas Denmark
• U.S. Chamber of CommerceHess’ Vice President of External Affairs is 
responsible for approving and overseeing 
employee engagement with elected officials 
or regulators when these employees act 
as official representatives of the company. 
This strict internal policy extends to 
Hess employees who serve on trade 
association committees that advocate for 
policy changes. This helps to ensure that 
we continue to operate at the highest level 
of integrity and transparency and remain 
compliant with all reporting requirements.
We aim to align our advocacy priorities 
with our established processes related to 
ERM and EHS. We also conduct ongoing 
assessments of our global advocacy 
priorities to drive improvements to our 
process for tracking and informing our 
advocacy efforts.
Trade Association Alignment
Hess is a member of many associations, 
organizations and collaborative working 
groups. While many of these associations, 
organizations and collaborative working 
groups share Hess’ positions on climate 
change, our positions do not always align 
with all formal positions of these groups, and 
our membership should not be considered 
a direct endorsement of the entire range 
of activities that they undertake. However, 
these organizations often provide broader 
value to our company in the form of industry 
EHS standards, along with opportunities 
to promote ongoing emissions reductions 
and transparency through industry 
led voluntary programs. Additionally, 
decisions by Hess to become a member 
or to discontinue a particular membership 
or relationship with an organization are 
made based on a variety of factors and 
should not be solely attributed to alignment 
or misalignment on any one issue. 
In 2021, we actively participated in 
ongoing efforts to update association 
positions, including on climate change 
and methane emissions, so that they 
more closely align with our positions.  
To address concerns related to potential 
inconsistency on a variety of issues, 
we publish our own positions on key 
sustainability topics in this annual report.17 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | How We Operate
To illustrate our alignment on climate change 
policies with our national and international 
memberships and associations, we evaluate 
major advocacy organizations that have 
historically received more than $50,000 
from Hess in any given year. For our most 
recent analysis completed earlier this 
year, we did not include the Independent 
Petroleum Association of America or 
U.S. Chamber of Commerce, as we 
did not renew these memberships for 
2022. Similarly, we joined the American 
Exploration & Production Council (AXPC) 
in 2022 and have thus included it in this 
most recent analysis.
Furthermore, although we are an active 
member of IPIECA on sustainable 
development issues such as climate 
change, biodiversity impacts and 
access to energy – issues that are often 
too complex for individual companies 
to tackle alone – we do not include 
IPIECA in this evaluation. Unlike many 
of the organizations that we have 
reviewed below, IPIECA is not a lobbying 
organization. IPIECA instead represents its 
members by engaging with stakeholders 
and governments on climate change and 
other sustainability topics and by providing 
a forum for encouraging continuous 
improvement of industry performance. 
IPIECA enables collaborative work 
with stakeholders by promoting an 
understanding of the key role the oil and 
gas industry should play in providing 
innovation, global reach, knowledge and 
technical expertise to help develop and 
implement feasible energy solutions.
Our 2022 evaluation was conducted 
using publicly available positions 
and statements, along with our own 
assessment of each organization’s 
activities regarding climate change 
and whether their climate positions 
are consistent with the following Hess 
positions: (1) acknowledgment of the 
science of climate change, (2) support 
for the Paris Agreement’s aim to limit 
global average temperature rise, (3) acknowledgment of the need to 
accelerate GHG emissions reductions 
through technological innovation,  
(4) support for a carbon price applied to 
emitters across all sectors and (5) support 
for the direct regulation of methane. The 
fifth position was added to our evaluation 
this year in recognition of our support 
for the enactment of cost effective direct 
methane regulations that would preserve 
a state’s ability to adapt implementation 
to local conditions. All of the organizations 
we analyzed acknowledge the science 
of climate change and support 
GHG emissions reductions through 
technological innovation. One of the 
organizations we evaluated, AXPC, has 
not directly and publicly supported the 
aim of the Paris Agreement, a carbon 
price, or the direct regulation of methane. 
However, AXPC has established public 
principles that demonstrate thoughtful 
consideration of these issues and a 
willingness to work with all stakeholders 
as these policies are further developed. 
For this reason, we have identified AXPC 
as “partially consistent” with Hess’ 
positions on these issues. As an offshore- 
only trade association, the National Ocean 
Industries Association (NOIA) has not 
addressed the direct regulation of onshore methane emissions. This criterion is 
therefore not applicable to NOIA, and 
we have identified it as “consistent” with 
Hess’ climate positions overall. The table 
above summarizes the overarching results 
of our review as of April 2022. 
We will continue to review the positions 
of our major advocacy organizations on 
an ongoing basis and, in the event that 
those positions appear to be or become 
misaligned with Hess’ positions, we will 
share our viewpoint in an attempt to more 
closely align their position with ours.
SUPPLY CHAIN
Our suppliers and contractors are critical 
to our success and play a significant role 
in Hess’ day-to-day business operations, 
collaborating with us to promote efficient 
operations, maintain high standards of 
EHS performance, mitigate risks and 
create shared value. As such, supply 
chain and contractor management is 
one of our key sustainability issues. 
We view our suppliers and contractors 
as important partners in advancing 
our sustainability efforts, and these 
partnerships will play an important  
role in helping us achieve many of  
the key actions outlined in our updated 
EHS & SR strategy.Findings of Hess’ Trade Association Evaluation
Industry Advocacy 
OrganizationsSummary of Alignment  
with Hess’ Climate Positions
American Petroleum  
Institute (API)API has continued to enhance its position on climate and continues to consider 
forward leaning climate action that is consistent  with the five Hess positions  
included in our analysis. We will continue to share our viewpoint on climate policy  
in an attempt to promote changes in policy direction, where appropriate.
American Exploration  
& Production Council 
(AXPC)AXPC maintains climate positions that are partially consistent  with the five Hess 
positions included in our analysis and discussions are proceeding in a positive 
direction. As a new member of this organization, we will share our viewpoint on 
climate policy in an attempt to more closely align AXPC’s position with ours.
National Ocean 
Industries Association 
(NOIA)NOIA’s recently adopted Climate Change Position and Principles are consistent   
with the four Hess positions included in our analysis that are applicable to this 
organization. Hess will continue to support NOIA’s efforts to balance the 
environmental, social, economic and energy needs of society and will continue to 
share our viewpoint on climate policy in an attempt to promote changes in policy 
direction, where appropriate.18| 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORTWe have tailored our engagement 
approach with our suppliers based on 
the value of the contract, risk level and 
additional criteria, focusing on deeper 
engagement with our most strategic 
suppliers who play a significant role in the 
overall performance of our business and 
sustainability objectives. For example, 
we have implemented an ongoing 
engagement cadence between Hess 
senior executives and our strategic 
suppliers’ senior leaders focused on 
increasing transparency, delivering mutual 
value and prioritizing supplier diversity.
During the ongoing challenges brought  
on by the COVID-19 pandemic, we 
continued to support the resilience of our 
supply chain by working with our suppliers 
to understand impacts to their operations, 
monitor potential operational risks and 
develop mitigation strategies.
While this section describes our general 
approach to engagement with our 
suppliers, these practices may differ 
in certain instances, if necessary, to 
comply with applicable local laws and 
requirements or if otherwise appropriate.
Management Approach
Effective supply chain management 
underpins our business and operational 
strategies. We continue to enhance our 
capabilities to understand the market 
and strategically manage our suppliers 
with cross functional teams that work 
collaboratively to reach safety, quality, 
delivery and cost targets. To further support 
a robust and consistent approach, sourcing and supplier management have been 
integrated into HOMS (see pages 14–15).
Our Procurement Policy specifies 
expectations and governance for the 
evaluation of proposals, management of 
contracts and ongoing procurement of 
goods and services. It also includes code 
of ethics and conflict of interest guidelines 
that establish clear expectations for our 
employees when engaging with suppliers. 
This includes an expectation that our 
suppliers respect our Code of Conduct 
and related policies, including those related 
to labor and human rights – or adopt 
equivalent standards – and that they train 
their employees accordingly. A central goal 
of our supply chain management system, 
including our Procurement Policy, is to 
help ensure that suppliers understand and 
abide by our high ethical, safety and other 
performance standards while helping us 
to avoid unexpected commitments and 
leverage our spend more effectively.
Supplier Qualifications
Hess follows a standardized approach to 
evaluate and measure the performance 
of key potential and current suppliers on 
the basis of total value, operational risk, 
safety, quality, delivery and cost. We have 
a centralized global system in place that 
houses contract templates and other key 
materials and manages the procurement 
process. We also use a central global 
electronic sourcing system to collect 
proposals and evaluate suppliers. This 
system supports the efficient creation 
of online requests for proposals and 
encourages the use of best practices. 
We employ a systematic prequalification 
and selection process to help ensure 
we are working with qualified and safe 
suppliers. Prospective suppliers are given 
a scope of work and EHS expectations 
during the sourcing phase. We conduct 
risk assessments for all potential 
suppliers. Where appropriate, certain 
potential suppliers – as determined by 
a risk based decision matrix – undergo 
expanded risk assessments including an antibribery, anticorruption and legal 
compliance review and, as detailed 
below, a review of EHS performance and 
programs. In addition, our procurement 
staff reviews, where appropriate, 
potential suppliers’ insurance, tax and 
quality information. If discrepancies with 
our applicable requirements arise, the 
relevant function within Hess conducts 
additional assessments and develops 
mitigation plans, as needed. In 2021, we 
also began screening suppliers based on 
DEI criteria (see page 19).
Contracts that involve higher risk, due to 
factors such as the number of workhours 
or the scope of work, are subject to an 
EHS review during the procurement 
process that covers training qualifications, 
safety programs and performance, 
environmental management systems 
and measurement, and emergency 
preparedness and response, among 
other topics. As one part of the EHS 
review, we use recognized industry 
prequalification systems for our areas 
of operation in the U.S. and European 
Union. In Malaysia, we use a standardized 
process aligned with our partnership 
with PETRONAS. Further detail on our 
EHS related qualifications review during 
procurement can be found in the Safety 
and Health section (pages 32–33). 
Potential suppliers receive a grade based 
on this assessment, and where the grade 
does not meet our requirements, the 
supplier must develop an improvement 
plan before they can perform work for 
Hess. Should an operational situation 
occur, such as an emergency, that 
requires the use of a supplier that has not 
completed the prequalification process or 
that has received an unsatisfactory grade, 
an escalated approval and increased 
oversight are required.
At our operated assets, we perform periodic 
assessments of suppliers and help 
them develop improvement plans if we 
find any gaps in their EHS processes or 
performance.How We Operate
Supplier Spend
We rely on our suppliers to provide key goods  
and services and perform essential tasks.  
In 2021, we purchased approximately  
$2.1 billion in commercial goods and services  
from approximately 3,000 suppliers, whose 
workhours constituted approximately 65% of  
our total workforce hours.19 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | Supplier Transparency  
and Compliance
Contractually, the companies that supply 
Hess with goods and services must 
comply with all applicable laws and 
regulations, maintain any applicable 
licensing or permitting requirements for 
their activities and meet the expectations 
set forth in our Code of Conduct and our 
Voluntary Commitments regarding labor 
and human rights (see page 21). Standard 
contract clauses include requirements 
with respect to ethical business practices, 
human rights, SR, business integrity, search 
and seizure, EHS and quality of materials 
and services. In addition, clauses that 
cover federal contractor requirements 
are included in our domestic contract 
templates for suppliers. For activities 
deemed as high risk or as required by 
regulators, we utilize tools such as bridging 
documents to address potential gaps 
between the supplier’s EHS management 
system and Hess’ EHS requirements.
Contracts typically also include a 
requirement that suppliers cooperate 
with all audits and inspections. We use a 
risk based approach and conduct audits 
and other assurance activities of existing 
suppliers to help ensure compliance with 
appliable Hess requirements and laws 
and regulations.
Supplier Diversity
We recognize the value of engaging a 
diverse supplier base to bring innovation, 
agility and value to our business and to 
reflect our commitment to create economic 
opportunities in the communities where 
we operate. In 2021, a task force of cross 
functional leaders at Hess completed a six 
month process of research, benchmarking 
and strategy development aimed at 
improving the diversity of our supply base 
and contractors. As one of the first steps 
in implementing our resulting supplier 
diversity strategy, we hired a supplier 
diversity leader to help ensure an impactful 
and sustainable program.In 2021, we began establishing a multiyear 
roadmap to promote economic equity 
in support of diverse businesses. We 
increased diverse supplier participation in 
direct business opportunities and engaged 
our nondiverse strategic suppliers to 
improve our indirect spend with their 
diverse suppliers. In 2022, we are focused 
on further embedding diversity into our 
established supply chain processes.
Local Content
Internationally we often prioritize local 
suppliers when performing under 
production sharing contracts or other 
agreements with host countries. These 
agreements vary by country but may 
include use of an approved supplier list, 
requirements for government approval of 
suppliers or threshold specifications for 
local companies or workers.
In Malaysia, for example, 92% of our 
workforce is considered local, and we 
use an approved vendor list that includes 
Malaysian owned companies. We also 
require our suppliers to prioritize hiring 
local staff.How We Operate
Drilling Operations, North Dakota
In Guyana at Hess’ joint venture (JV), 57% 
of the workforce is considered local. The 
JV and its contractors used over 880 
Guyanese vendors, spending approximately 
$219 million for goods and services, a 37% 
increase in spending from 2020. The JV 
also launched the Greater Guyana Initiative 
(GGI) in 2021, a 10 year commitment of 
$100 million, to significantly expand capacity 
building efforts in diverse sectors such 
as health and agriculture and to promote 
sustainable economic development in 
Guyana. The GGI’s capacity development 
efforts include programs that partner with 
local institutions within Guyana’s Technical 
and Vocational Education and Training 
Sector, the University of Guyana and the 
Centre for Local Business Development 
(CLBD). The JV has supported the CLBD 
since 2017 and has registered more 
than 3,400 local businesses for new 
opportunities since that time.
See more on Hess’ expectations and 
requirements for suppliers at suppliers.hess.
com and hess.com/sustainability/
how-we-operate/supply-chainVolunteer Tree Planting Event, Houston, Texas 21 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | Social Responsibility
for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender 
and queer people under existing civil 
rights laws and create a federal standard 
to treat all employees equally.
Hess’ Voluntary Commitments help to 
provide a foundation for our SR and Human 
Rights Policies, which are supported 
at the local level through training and 
procedures specific to the needs of our 
operational locations. We also expect our 
suppliers and contractors to respect our 
Voluntary Commitments; Code of Conduct; 
Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) 
Policy; SR Policy; and related policies or 
to adopt equivalent standards and train 
their employees accordingly.
Our SR Policy compels us to demonstrate 
high standards of ethics and integrity and 
outlines our commitments to both the 
communities where we operate and to our 
workforce. For example, we are committed 
to conducting environmental and social 
impact assessments prior to making major 
investments and minimizing any adverse 
impact as a result of our operations.
Our Human Rights Policy specifically 
prohibits child labor, forced labor and 
workplace harassment in our operations. 
It also covers the rights of Indigenous 
peoples and key issues relating to 
security, community engagement and  
our supply chain. 
In 2021, in recognition of the evolving 
SR related responsibilities of companies 
and our changing portfolio, we began a 
project to review and update our SR and 
Human Rights Policies. 
Organizational Structure
Hess’ External Affairs function serves 
as an internal coordination body and 
technical resource for our assets and At Hess, we are committed to maintaining 
the highest standards of corporate 
citizenship while we help to meet the 
world’s energy needs. The Hess Value of 
Social Responsibility (SR) is built into our 
company culture and is reflected in the 
way we conduct business. We live this 
value by protecting the health and safety 
of our workforce and safeguarding the 
environment. We ultimately aim to create 
long lasting positive benefits wherever we 
operate, supporting our purpose to be the 
world’s most trusted energy partner.
We are guided in our activities by Hess’ 
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 
(Code of Conduct), our SR and Human 
Rights Policies, and the United Nations (U.N.) 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), 
which were considered in the development 
of our environment, health, safety and social 
responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy.
GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
We are committed to implementing ethical 
and responsible business practices in 
all that we do. Through the Hess Code 
of Conduct, we have established the 
business conduct and practices we expect 
of our employees, officers, directors and 
contractors, including adherence to the 
highest standards of SR and human rights. 
We have endorsed or formally joined a 
number of voluntary initiatives, known 
collectively as our Voluntary Commitments, 
designed to protect the environment, 
promote human rights and encourage 
financial transparency. They include:
• The Universal Declaration of Human Rights
• The International Labour Organization’s 
Declaration on Fundamental Principles 
and Rights at Work
• The U.N. Global Compact
• The Extractive Industries Transparency 
Initiative
Additionally, Hess is a member of the Human 
Rights Campaign’s Business Coalition for 
the Equality Act. This legislation, which is 
under review in the U.S. Congress, would 
guarantee explicit, permanent protections project teams as they implement our 
SR commitments and programs. External 
Affairs develops governance, reports 
companywide social performance, provides 
technical and functional support to the 
assets and project teams, and provides 
assurance across these efforts. The 
assets and project resources report into 
the business line management structure 
and are responsible for developing and 
executing asset or project specific SR 
plans. SR activities are integrated and 
aligned between our central organization 
and global locations.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
As we work to develop oil and natural gas 
resources in a manner that is environmentally 
and socially responsible, we engage with 
a wide range of external stakeholders, as 
appropriate – from local landowners and 
governments to community service agencies 
and Indigenous groups. We actively pursue 
dialogue with our stakeholders to share 
our values, vision and goals; seek their 
feedback; and collaborate on opportunities 
to make lasting contributions to our host 
communities, especially in the areas of 
education and health.
Stakeholder Planning  
and Engagement Process 
Our stakeholder planning and engagement 
process is a foundational element of the 
Hess Risk Management Standard, allowing 
us to link key external issues impacting 
each asset to specific stakeholders and 
adopt appropriate risk mitigations and 
engagement activities (see graphic below).
The first step of this process is 
understanding the specific risks faced by 
each asset as identified in the asset level 
risk register and “heat maps,” as well as 
identifying external facing issues that are 
Step 1
Identify Risks  
and IssuesStep 2
Establish Internal 
AccountabilitiesStep 3
Identify Key  
StakeholdersStep 4
Outline  
EngagementsStep 5
Monitor  
and TrackIntegrated Stakeholder Engagement Process22| 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSocial Responsibility
critical to maintaining Hess’ license to 
operate. In the second step, we establish 
documented internal accountabilities 
for managing each key issue, including 
identification of a Business Owner (i.e., an 
individual from senior management with 
accountability for the issue) and an Issue 
Manager or Managers (i.e., individuals 
responsible for managing the ongoing 
strategy and engagement to mitigate 
stakeholder impacts). In step three, 
Issue Managers, with support from our 
External Affairs function, document the 
relevant stakeholders, and then, in step 
four, outline the engagement strategies 
for those stakeholders. The final step is 
monitoring and tracking the key issues, 
with updates to the Business Owner and, 
as required, other senior management at 
least twice per year.
We maintain individualized External 
Affairs and Stakeholder (EAS) Plans for 
each of Hess’ operated locations, which 
document the five step engagement 
process. These EAS Plans were updated 
in 2021 to identify high priority issues 
and related mitigation and engagement 
approaches, where applicable. Hess’ Key External Stakeholders 
Collaborating with stakeholders helps us to 
identify opportunities for beneﬁting our host 
communities while improving our business 
and strengthening our license to operate. 
We engage with a wide range of external 
stakeholders, including the following:
• Land Users/Landowners: Residents, 
landowners, commercial land interests, 
farmers, ranchers
• Resources Users/Rights Holders: 
Mineral rights owners, water rights 
owners and users, hunters, fishers
• Governments: Local, regional and 
national authorities; national militaries; 
international governing authorities
• Parties with Direct Economic Interests: 
Investors, vendors and suppliers, 
contractors, unions, shareholders
• Parties with External Business Interests: 
Chambers of commerce, industry 
organizations, local businesses, 
sustainability initiatives
• Special Interest Groups: 
Nongovernmental organizations, 
religious groups, cause oriented 
nonprofits, community groups• Community Services: Police, fire and 
emergency medical services; health 
care services; education; human  
service agencies
• Indigenous Groups: Formally recognized 
groups, tribal coalitions, government 
supporting agencies, Indigenous 
advocacy groups
Recent examples of our stakeholder 
engagement activities can be found at  
hess.com/sustainability/social-responsibility/
stakeholder-engagement
Grievance Mechanisms
In the communities where we operate, 
we do our best to address potential 
issues early, before they mature into 
more severe challenges – and we believe 
that strong and transparent stakeholder 
relationships help us to do that. Formal 
grievance mechanisms are an important 
part of our commitment to solicit external 
stakeholder feedback for our company’s 
operational impacts and help us respond 
to and act on feedback through an 
established process. We are committed 
to addressing all concerns we receive.
We have reached out to community 
members through forums, such as 
community meetings, town halls and local 
hearings, to share information about our 
grievance mechanisms and to establish 
channels of communication. As an 
additional step in the process, we survey 
stakeholders who communicate concerns 
to assess whether they are satisfied with 
our response. 
Through one of the grievance mechanisms 
at our Bakken asset, we accept feedback 
and complaints (anonymously, if desired) 
via several access points, including 
our Grievance Officer, the Hess Owner 
Solutions team, our North Dakota front 
desk staff and our Surface Land team. Our 
response team then investigates and draws 
on personnel from various disciplines within 
Hess – such as EHS, drilling, completions, 
operations, maintenance, civil construction 
and human resources – that are best able 
to respond to the concern and reach a 
resolution. For example, safety concerns are 
Farm Rescue Support, North Dakota23 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | Social Responsibility
forwarded to our EHS function; individual 
worker complaints are handled by Human 
Resources; and business integrity or ethics 
complaints are referred to our Code 
of Conduct hotline. By engaging each 
discipline as appropriate, we escalate 
management of the grievance upward 
in the company as necessary to help 
resolve the issue. The response team 
strives to complete each investigation 
within 14 days of the original report and to 
provide a response and/or resolution within 
30 days. Before closing the feedback or 
complaint, we contact the stakeholder to 
confirm the issue has been adequately 
addressed. Trending data on grievances are 
reported upward to the Bakken Leadership 
team, composed of key senior decision 
makers for the Bakken asset. This approach 
bolsters accountability and sharing of 
lessons learned throughout the organization. 
Our internal database – the stakeholder 
management system (SMS) – helps us to 
track grievances from start to closeout.
We receive and address concerns related 
to our operations. Although feedback and 
complaints can cover any topic related 
to our operations, including workplace, 
procurement and supplier issues or EHS 
concerns, the most commonly raised 
topics at the Bakken asset include road 
conditions, erosion, land reclamation, 
fencing, cattle guards and weed control.
We also maintain an owner relations 
telephone hotline, webpage and email 
address through which landowners and 
mineral rights owners at our Bakken asset 
can ask questions and share concerns 
and complaints. While most of the 
inquiries through this system are requests 
or questions related to owner accounts, 
the system also serves as a separate 
grievance mechanism for this key 
stakeholder group. Our Owner Relations 
and Owner Support teams manage this 
system and use the SMS to track open 
inquiries and grievances and to help 
ensure resolution.
In 2021, we received 315 grievances 
through these processes, 94% of which have been resolved as of May 2022. We are 
committed to resolving the remaining 6%, 
which are primarily grievances that require 
construction activities and are planned 
to be completed in the spring or summer 
when both weather conditions and harvest 
season make these activities feasible.
SOCIAL RISK AND  
IMPACT MANAGEMENT
When entering a new geography, 
commissioning a new development or 
expanding an existing facility, Hess uses 
strategic planning processes to examine the social, political and reputational 
environments; identify nontechnical risks 
and impacts; and develop mitigations. 
Where our operations are ongoing, we 
regularly conduct heat map reviews 
through our enterprise risk management 
process that take into account new 
and emerging nontechnical risks and 
develop mitigations where appropriate. 
We identify, mitigate and manage 
human rights issues during the strategic 
planning process for new and expanding 
operations and the regular risk reviews of 
our ongoing operations.Engaging with Local Stakeholders on the Tioga Gas Plant Turnaround
At the Tioga Gas Plant, Hess Midstream safely and successfully completed a scheduled maintenance 
turnaround in 2021, which will help to increase processing capacity, maintain a safe and reliable 
plant and reduce flaring from production operations. The turnaround was completed in 35 days (10 
days shorter than planned) and involved more than 650 workers, including 300 who were contracted 
specifically for the project.
Turnarounds of this magnitude have the potential to result in impacts to the community, such as traffic 
congestion from increased construction activities and inflated short term housing costs from nonlocal 
workers. To help mitigate these potential impacts before the turnaround commenced, Hess and Hess 
Midstream developed a comprehensive engagement plan and proactively engaged our local stakeholders –  
including local residents, businesses and government officials – to explain the project and solicit their 
feedback. This engagement and planning drew on personnel from various disciplines within Hess, including 
External Affairs, EHS, infrastructure, operations, maintenance, civil construction and human resources.
The turnaround was originally scheduled to occur in 2020, but we chose to delay all maintenance 
activities until 2021, in part due to local stakeholders’ concerns related to COVID-19 and our priority to 
keep our workforce and community safe. To reduce COVID-19 related risks associated with assembling 
the large number of workers required to complete this project, we implemented strict safety practices 
for all workers including hygiene protocols, wearing masks, social distancing, completing daily health 
questionnaires and regular COVID-19 testing for the entire workforce.
Once we began to progress the turnaround in 2021, we continued this dialogue with our stakeholders 
to solicit their input on the effectiveness of the mitigations in place. This involved, for example, our land 
team regularly meeting with landowners to provide a forum to review any new emerging issues and to 
spread awareness of our grievance mechanism.
Midstream Operations, North Dakota24| 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSocial Responsibility
Human Rights
Our Code of Conduct and SR and Human 
Rights Policies codify our commitment 
to respect human rights and we uphold 
this commitment in our operations. By 
engaging with stakeholders, we aim to 
proactively address potential issues and 
work to prevent human rights related 
incidents. We seek to make positive 
and lasting contributions in governance, 
transparency, respect for rule of law, and 
social and economic development.
Hess is committed to educating our 
personnel on the importance of respecting 
human rights, as well as raising internal 
awareness of the best practices outlined 
in our Human Rights Policy. We include 
a human rights training module as part 
of our online Code of Conduct training 
for employees that explains the concept 
and importance of human rights, reviews 
our Human Rights Policy, offers guidance 
on integrating respect for human rights 
into employees’ daily work and provides 
directions on how to report suspected 
human rights violations.
With the help of an external consultant, 
we performed a social risk assessment 
focused on human rights issues for our 
North Malay Basin (NMB) asset in 2020. 
The final assessment report, which 
was completed in 2021, resulted in an 
overall finding of low risk and identified 
two opportunities for improvement: 
enhance our human rights training for 
NMB employees and appoint a local 
human rights key point of contact. As part 
of our EHS & SR strategy, we planned 
to advance our human rights training 
program and have begun piloting a 
module developed through IPIECA with 
our NMB employees. If successful, we 
plan to expand it across the enterprise in 
the future. We have also appointed a local 
human rights key point of contact. 
In 2021, we continued to participate 
in IPIECA’s Social Responsibility and Supply Chain working groups, which aim 
to advance our industry’s approach to 
human rights and help to inform Hess’ 
policies and practices. 
COMMUNITY BENEFITS  
AND CAPACITY BUILDING
Hess is committed to making a lasting 
positive impact in the communities 
where we operate. We aim to achieve 
this through direct and indirect economic 
and employment opportunities and 
social investment, which in 2021 totaled 
approximately $15.7 million.
At the local level, our assets and Houston 
operational headquarters create, maintain 
and implement strategic social investment, 
capacity building and infrastructure 
improvement programs tailored to each 
operation and community.
We evaluate our programs to confirm 
a balance of strategic investment and 
support of local organizations, which helps 
us meet the changing development needs 
of the communities where we operate. 
Hess focuses on established partnerships 
with key organizations and projects best 
aligned with our values as well as the 
business and the social risks identified 
through risk assessments. We integrate 
this strategy into our business, enhancing 
investment visibility and leveraging 
volunteer opportunities for our employees.
Our social investment programs contribute 
to education improvement and work skill 
development, which are fundamental to 
sustainable economic growth. We also 
seek opportunities to have a positive impact 
on economic inclusion and equity in our 
supply chain to provide lasting benefit to the 
communities where we operate.
Hess also supports innovative programs 
and initiatives combating societal issues 
such as climate change. In 2021, for 
example, we donated $2 million to the 
Salk Institute – as part of a $3 million commitment – to establish an endowed 
Hess Chair in Plant Science as the institute 
continues its research on developing 
plants with larger root systems capable 
of absorbing and storing potentially 
billions of tons of carbon per year from the 
atmosphere. We also donated $2.5 million 
in support of the Salk Institute’s Harnessing 
Plants Initiative in 2021 as part of a multiyear 
$12.5 million commitment.
In 2021, we developed social investment 
expenditure and reporting guidance to 
enhance the consistency of tracking our 
spend, one of our strategic EHS & SR 
actions. We also drafted a framework to 
measure the outcomes of our key social 
investment programs and better assess 
the alignment of our social investment 
strategy and programs with the U.N. 
SDGs. This effort, which is another 
strategic EHS & SR action, is slated for 
implementation in 2022.■  En vironmen t 
■  Educatio n 
■  Disaster  Relief 
■  He alth 
■  Sk ills & Econo mic Development 
■  Ot her* 
 Note : This chart includes  all social  inve stmen ts in 2021,   
 includin g thos e associated  with  joint ventur e oper ations.    
 Non cash or “i n-kind ” contribution s have been included    
 within  the catego ry for the social  issue whic h they suppor t.
* Othe r catego ry includes  charitable  donation s for    
 gene ral communi ty need s and matc hing  gifts.$15.7 Million
13%
29%30%
6%5%17%2021 Social Investment Spend 
by Type of Investment25 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | Winter Storm Relief in Houston
Hess donated $1 million to the 2021 Houston Harris County Winter Storm 
Relief Fund and $1 million to the Houston Food Bank following the severe 
winter storm that significantly impacted communities already suffering from 
the pandemic’s economic effects. We also matched donations made by 
employees through our matching gift program. 
Educational Programs and Services in Houston
In Houston, Hess announced a $9 million financial commitment over the 
next three years as part of our Learning for Life Partnership. We are funding 
educational programs and support services for children in three underserved 
communities that are part of the Houston mayor’s Complete Communities 
Initiative. Learning for Life will benefit approximately 22 schools and more 
than 13,000 children from prekindergarten through high school in Houston’s 
Third Ward, Magnolia Park-Manchester and Second Ward Complete 
Communities neighborhoods.
Scholarships and Educational Programming through the Jackie 
Robinson Foundation
As part of Hess’ longstanding commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion, 
we announced a $1.4 million grant to the Jackie Robinson Foundation (JRF) 
in 2021. The grant includes $1 million to support the new Jackie Robinson 
Museum being built in New York City, which will serve as a venue for innovative 
educational programming and dialogue on critical social issues. The remaining 
$400,000 will provide four year scholarships and support services to five 
underrepresented college students as part of the JRF scholarship program. 
In addition, Hess will provide internship opportunities for JRF Scholars, with 
a goal of five Hess JRF Scholar internships per year starting in 2022. 
College Apprenticeships in North Dakota
Job Experience Training (JET) is an apprenticeship program developed by Hess 
in 2017, in collaboration with Bismarck State College, to develop local, qualified 
reliability operators in North Dakota. Since inception, 31 apprentices have 
entered the JET program, 17 have completed the apprenticeship and 16 have 
transitioned to be Hess employees. Given the success of the program, we made 
an additional investment of $50,000 in 2021. We plan to fund eight new 
JET apprentices in 2022.STEM Teaching Tools in North Dakota
In partnership with North Dakota state education officials and the governor’s office, 
Hess provided toy trucks to every public elementary school in North Dakota 
for the 2021–2022 academic year. We have been shipping these trucks since 
2018 as science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) teaching tools 
that accompany a corresponding STEM curriculum designed by Baylor College of 
Medicine’s Center for Educational Outreach. The materials provide teachers with ready 
made plans for STEM educational opportunities and help children learn about energy 
efficiency, kinetic energy and other STEM lessons. 
Gulf of Mexico Sustainability Programs in Texas and Louisiana
Hess continues to work with the Gulf of Mexico Alliance (GOMA) to support the 
sustainability and health of the Gulf’s aquatic resources, primarily through programs 
that help to improve water quality and clean up marine waste. In 2021, we supported 
the GOMA Gulf Star program’s Water Watch and citizen science water quality initiatives 
for the fourth year in a row with a $50,000 donation. We also sponsored the water 
bottle refill stations installed in Lafourche Parish schools in southern Louisiana.
Food Security in Malaysia
Hess continues to support the work of MyKasih Foundation in Malaysia to benefit 
impoverished families. In 2021, we contributed to its “Love My Neighbourhood” 
food aid program, and our funding helped approximately 200 households in 
Kelantan purchase seven months’ worth of essential supplies.
Capacity Building in Guyana
In 2021, our Stabroek joint venture continued to provide social and economic 
benefits to the people of Guyana. This included the Greater Guyana Initiative (GGI), 
a $100 million commitment over 10 years to expand capacity building efforts 
and promote sustainable economic development in the country. Efforts include 
programs that partner with local institutions within Guyana’s Technical and Vocational 
Education and Training sector, the Centre for Local Business Development and the 
University of Guyana. The GGI will also focus on supporting regional initiatives and 
capacity development of diverse sectors including health and agriculture.
See more detail on these programs at  
hess.com/sustainability/social-responsibility   Social Responsibility
Local Program Highlights
Greater Guyana Initiative Announcement Volunteer Marsh Restoration, Gulf of MexicoIn 2021, Hess’ global assets and Houston operational headquarters engaged in a variety of local social investment activities based on community development 
priorities and involving local stakeholders. The following are selected highlights. Midstream Operations, North DakotaSafety and Health
conduct leadership site visits and safety 
observations to engage our organization 
in safety performance. Our leadership site 
visits – known as “Go to Gemba” – focus 
on Hess leaders visiting our worksites to 
better understand safety challenges and 
reinforce our commitment to safety. When a 
site’s workforce includes contract workers, 
managers from our contractor companies 
will often accompany our leaders on these 
visits. Though the COVID-19 pandemic 
continued to limit employee travel in 2021, 
we completed approximately 70,750 visits 
and observations.
Our 13th annual Global Safety Appreciation 
Day, held virtually in 2021, provided an 
opportunity for the Hess workforce to 
reflect on safety. The main topic was 
process safety, and materials were 
provided to our office and field locations 
that emphasized the important role and 
responsibility each person plays in helping 
us operate in a safe manner. The event also 
allowed our leaders to emphasize that no 
project or deadline is more important than 
our goal to have everyone, everywhere, 
return home safe every day.Our commitment to safety is embedded 
in the Hess Values and our organizational 
culture. Occupational health and safety, 
process safety and release prevention, 
and emergency preparedness and 
response are among our most important 
sustainability issues, and we continue 
to prioritize continuous improvement in 
these areas through our environment, 
health, safety and social responsibility 
strategy. (See pages 8–9 for our goals 
and targets through 2025.) 
Our safety programs and practices aim 
to maintain a culture in which employees 
and contractors keep each other safe 
on the job. We support this culture by 
fostering collaboration, communication 
and accountability through standardized 
tools, processes and procedures, 
frequent sharing of performance data and 
clear performance goals.
Hess’ commitment to safety begins at 
the top of our company, and we work to 
reinforce it at every level. For example, 
we include key enterprisewide safety 
metrics in our annual incentive plan formula 
for executives and employees. We also Collaboration with industry groups helps 
us advance our collective understanding 
of and approach to managing safety risks. 
In 2021, we concluded our work with the 
Center for Offshore Safety (COS) and the 
International Association of Oil and Gas 
Producers (IOGP) on a set of process 
safety fundamentals, which we plan to 
integrate into future training programs.  
We also supported the American 
Petroleum Institute’s Onshore Safety 
Alliance, which officially launched its 
Onshore Safety Program in 2021 for  
oil and gas companies to share best 
practices on personal and process safety.
MANAGEMENT APPROACH
We utilize the Hess Operational 
Management System (HOMS) as a 
framework for managing, measuring and 
promoting continuous improvement in our 
safety performance.
Over the past several years, we have 
formalized and standardized many of our 
environment, health and safety (EHS) global 
standards, which address key areas of safety 
risk – such as energy isolation, dropped 
objects and confined space entry –  
27 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | In 2021, the COVID-19 pandemic continued to be a central focus of our 
occupational safety and emergency response efforts. Our first priority in 
responding to this crisis has been the safety of our workforce, their families 
and the communities where we live and operate. 
Throughout the pandemic, we utilized our emergency response incident 
command system to support a coordinated response across functions, 
business units and business partners. Our centralized Incident Support 
Team (IST) worked to address long term business continuity, evolve 
COVID-19 safety and health protocols and remote working arrangements, 
develop communications and provide regular leadership updates. Incident 
Management Teams (IMTs) at our assets and office locations in the 
U.S., Europe and Asia supported the IST by focusing on local needs and 
conducting local stakeholder engagement. 
We used a range of health and safety measures to help keep our workforce 
safe and evolved those measures based on guidance from the Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention and other health authorities and 
applicable government requirements, in addition to ongoing engagement 
with medical experts, peers and suppliers, and local communities. Over 
the course of the pandemic, our safety measures included the use of face 
masks, social distancing, altered schedules, remote work, and travel and visitor restrictions, as well as vaccination and testing programs. To support our 
employees in getting vaccinated, we provided paid time off, hosted forums with 
medical experts and implemented a vaccine helpline, staffed by experts, to 
answer questions and help with vaccine locations and appointments.
Supporting employees’ mental health was an important element of our 
pandemic response. For example, we expanded access to virtual mental 
health therapy and launched a dedicated COVID-19 mental health resource 
center, which remains available to employees. This web based center pulls 
together information and support tools for key mental health issues brought 
to the forefront by the pandemic, including unique challenges for working 
parents without access to in person school and childcare, stress and anxiety 
management skills, and guidance for managers to support employees facing 
increased stress and the challenges of remote work.
Due to evolving conditions, we have transitioned from a pandemic response 
to a longer term endemic management plan. In 2021, we stood down the IST 
and IMTs and formed a Return to Office team, which began implementing site 
specific plans to facilitate resuming normal operations. We are following a risk 
based, phased approach to endemic management that incorporates an ongoing 
review of local criteria, including strain on local health care services and case 
positivity and transmission rates.Responding to the COVID-19 Pandemic28| 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSafety and Health
and promote leadership, awareness, 
consistency and accountability across all 
levels of the organization. As described 
in the How We Operate section, these 
standards are now or are in the process of 
being embedded into HOMS (see pages 
14–15). We also maintain a set of Hess Rules 
to clearly express our universal, mandatory 
safety requirements to our workforce.
We review conformance with the external 
and internal requirements (e.g., regulations, 
policies, standards and procedures) related 
to HOMS through HOMS Element 13: 
Assurance. Our Assurance Standard 
was updated in 2021 to address both 
operated and nonoperated assets. 
Assurance for operated assets covers a 
broad range of activities and functions 
under HOMS. For nonoperated assets, 
Hess’ assurance activities focus on process 
safety and major accident event prevention. 
For further detail on our 2021 assurance 
activities, see page 15.
OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY
Hess emphasizes a culture of ownership 
for occupational safety by empowering 
workers and giving them the responsibility 
to identify and mitigate the potential safety 
risk relevant to their operations.Our safety observation program helps 
us to facilitate this culture of ownership 
by empowering workers to take an active 
role in their safety and that of others, 
and be a part of the solution when issues 
arise. In 2021, we maintained a formal 
behavioral observation safety program 
at our operated assets that trains workers 
to conduct peer to peer workplace 
observations in order to identify and track 
safe and at risk behaviors and provide 
immediate feedback. We implemented 
multiple training sessions for employees 
and contractors across the organization 
to support effective safety observations, 
critical conversations and follow up actions. 
We continue working toward a generative 
safety culture that emphasizes a worker 
centered, collaborative approach to safety. 
In 2021, we surveyed our Bakken workforce 
to understand the current state of our 
safety culture and identify opportunities for 
improvement. We also began to explore 
how we can enhance our efforts through 
a human and organizational performance 
approach to safety that focuses on 
strengthening our safety performance and 
culture through learning – not only from 
incidents, but also from successful events 
and evaluating what went right.We further enhanced joint leadership and 
frontline worker safety steering committees 
that include Hess employees and 
contractors at our assets. These groups 
provide a critical link between management 
and workers on safety issues and underpin 
our efforts to create a culture that fosters 
open communication and continuous 
learning and improvement. The steering 
committees take a lead role in collecting 
and analyzing safety observation data, 
identifying specific corrective actions and 
addressing impediments to improvement. 
Through our safety leadership training, we 
aim to empower frontline leaders to be role 
models who help set safety expectations. 
We have trained over 253 frontline leaders 
in our Bakken asset since this training was 
initiated three years ago. In 2021, we began 
expanding this safety leadership training in 
North Malay Basin with “Train the Trainer” 
workshops focused on fostering more 
effective safety conversations. Although 
full expansion of this training program 
in North Malay Basin and the Gulf of 
Mexico was delayed in 2021 due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic, we will continue its 
implementation in 2022.
We are in the multiyear process of building 
a consistent approach to competency 
assurance and learning (CAL) across our 
operations and integrating CAL into our 
HOMS processes (see pages 14–15). In 
2021, we completed implementation at 
our U.S. assets of a competency training 
management system and established 
regional regulatory based training 
requirements at each of our U.S. assets.
In 2021, we established an Innovation Task 
Force to monitor and evaluate emerging 
technologies and their applicability to 
Hess’ standard operating practices. For 
example, we piloted a fatigue management 
program in North Malay Basin that assessed 
employees’ and contractors’ readiness 
prior to commencing work each morning 
and, based on results, provided them with 
additional rest time if needed.
Offshore Operations, Gulf of Mexico29 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | Safety and Health
Transportation Safety
Transportation is an important focus of 
our occupational safety efforts. The Hess 
Land Transportation Standard is being 
incorporated into HOMS and has three 
pillars: driver training and competency, 
the use of in vehicle monitoring systems 
for company owned vehicles and journey 
management planning. We believe this 
approach has helped us reduce collisions 
per million miles traveled by 65% from 2016 
to 2021. We also reduced time spent 
driving over the speed limit by 54% from 
2018 to 2021, in part due to an enhanced 
in vehicle speed monitoring system we 
implemented in 2018.
Hess workers are required to take proactive 
driver training prior to the first time they 
operate a motor vehicle on company 
business, with refresher training required 
every three years. In 2021, we continued 
to use COVID-19 safety precautions for 
our in vehicle training program based 
on the recommendations of medical and 
occupational health experts. For example, 
we used dedicated, sanitized vehicles; 
required mask wearing in vehicles with 
multiple occupants; and instructed 
trainers to ride in the back seat to increase 
social distancing. 
Our Land Transportation team publishes 
weekly safety bulletins that address key 
topics, such as distracted driving, safe 
parking and safety technology. These 
bulletins are also provided to many of 
our contractors. Our key contractors 
are encouraged to comply with Land 
Transportation Safety Recommended 
Practice , Report No. 365, published by 
the IOGP. 
We participate in several industry groups 
to share best practices and further 
improve our transportation safety. We 
are active participants in the IOGP Land 
Transportation subcommittee, which 
sets industry standards for upstream oil 
and gas producers, and we adhere to these standards. A Hess representative 
also serves as a board member of the 
Network of Employers for Traffic Safety, 
an employer led collaborative group that 
works to improve the safety and health of 
employees, their families and community 
members where they live and work by 
preventing traffic accidents. Our Bakken 
asset is an active member of Vision Zero, 
a traffic safety organization aiming to 
reduce collisions in North Dakota that 
includes participation by law enforcement, 
the state’s Department of Transportation 
and Department of Health, and the 
private sector. Hess is also working with 
the U.S. government’s National Institute 
for Occupational Safety and Health on a 
project to better understand the role of in 
vehicle monitoring to promote driver safety 
in the oil and gas industry. 
The Hess Air Transportation Standard 
is also being incorporated into HOMS 
and is supported by the Aviation 
Guideline, and together they form the 
basis of our aviation safety program. 
This program frequently goes beyond 
national regulations in our countries of operation, and we collaborate with 
industry organizations to develop industry 
guidance and recommended practices. 
We undertake assurance evaluations to 
confirm the use of safe practices and 
adherence to regulations across our 
operations. For example, we conduct 
routine assurance reviews of our aviation 
contractors, including safety audits, site 
visits and readiness reviews, to monitor 
the safe operation of aircraft used to 
support our operations. We also conduct 
assurance on the unmanned aerial 
systems that are increasingly being used  
to survey our assets and operations.
While our aviation contractors have 
experienced no significant Hess related 
aviation accidents or injuries in more 
than 25 years, we continuously work with 
these contractors to further reduce risk 
and increase efficiency and reliability. In 
2021, safe operations were maintained 
for all routine, nonroutine and medevac 
flights in the face of additional challenges 
caused by COVID-19 and Gulf of Mexico 
hurricanes, even with an increase in 
aviation activity compared with 2020.
Offshore Operations, Gulf of Thailand30 | 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORTKey Performance Metrics
In 2021, we achieved a 9% reduction in 
our workforce total recordable incident rate 
(TRIR) compared with 2020, just under our 
goal of a 10% reduction year over year. This 
reduction was driven by a year over year 
decrease in our employee TRIR but was 
offset by a slight increase in our contractor Safety and Health
rate – due to one additional contractor 
safety incident compared with 2020. Our 
workforce lost time incident rate increased 
from 0.09 in 2020 to 0.12 in 2021, again 
due to one additional lost time incident 
compared with 2020. No employee or 
contractor fatalities occurred during 2021.
In response to incidents throughout the 
year, our assets conducted root cause 
analyses and implemented corrective 
actions across our onshore and offshore 
operations. We share information on 
safety incidents and related lessons 
learned across our operations to help 
prevent future incidents. 
Hess’ enterprisewide annual incentive plan 
metrics include a target aimed at reducing 
the rate of severe and significant safety 
incidents (SSSIs). In 2021, our SSSI rate 
was 0.420 – a six year low and a 14% 
reduction from 2020 – which surpassed 
our target of 0.423.
As part of our SSSI rate, we track near miss 
incidents that have the potential to result in 
severe consequences, as well as incidents 
that result in an actual consequence, 
including Tier 2 process safety events 
(PSEs) and recordable incidents. We 
require that near miss incidents be reported 
internally and recorded into our incident 
management system as if an actual 
consequence had occurred.
PROCESS SAFETY
The aim of Hess’ process safety 
program is to prevent the unplanned or 
uncontrolled loss of primary containment  
of any material, including materials that 
are nontoxic and nonflammable (e.g., 
steam, nitrogen, compressed air), that 
could result in an incident such as an 
injury, fire, explosion, toxic release or 
environmental impact.
We focus on understanding and identifying 
key points within process safety systems 
that could impact asset integrity and the 
safe and proper operation of equipment. In particular, we address:
• Design integrity: reducing risks in the 
design and construction of facilities
• Technical integrity: inspecting, testing 
and maintaining hardware and software 
barriers
• Operational integrity: working within 
operational design parameters
Our approach to process safety involves 
identifying, managing and mitigating 
risks across Hess operations. We do 
this by raising awareness of risks among 
our workforce, providing strong safety 
leadership and maintaining a commitment 
to continuously improving our process 
safety procedures, systems and standards.
Over the past several years we have been 
working to address process safety risk 
through enhancements to our integrity 
management program and assessment of 
barrier health at our assets globally. Our 
efforts have centered on integrity critical 
equipment (ICE), which are barriers and 
safeguards that prevent or mitigate PSEs 
through detection, isolation, containment, 
control, or emergency preparedness and 
response within our facilities. 
We have established ICE performance 
standards, which set specific requirements 
and criteria for inspections and tests to 
help ensure ICE barriers are effective. 
We have been increasing the number of 
ICE inspections, testing and performance 
standard assurance tests each year. In 
2021, we again surpassed our target of 
99% inspection and testing of ICE, with 
approximately 16,000 critical performance 
standard assurance test work orders 
completed. We will continue to measure 
compliance with planned assurance tests 
and corrective critical maintenance in 2022.
We initiated a pilot program to enhance 
our Tier II Assurance through major 
accident event barrier health reviews 
in 2021, beginning with the Baldpate 
platform in the Gulf of Mexico. We plan to ■  Employee Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)
■  Contractor TRIR0.00.10.20.30.40.50.6
2021 2020 20190.05 0.050.57
0.320.360.46Incidents per 200,000 Hours
 Employee and Contractor 
Safety Performance
Note: Hess ’ workforce data includes both employees and   
contractors. When calculating LTIR, calendar workdays   
are used. A lost time incident involves one or more days   
away from work, excluding the day of the incident.■  Workforce TRIR
■  Workforce Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR)Incidents per 200,000 Hours
 
0.00.10.20.30.40.5
2021 2020 20190.43
0.180.320.35
0.090.12Workforce Safety  
Performance31 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | Safety and Health
proceed with these assessments globally 
to cover remaining assets. 
In 2021, we completed the implementation 
of “bow tie” diagram use in our Gulf of 
Mexico and North Malay Basin offshore 
assets. Bow tie diagrams help to visualize 
the relationship between threats, barriers 
and consequences, which supports our risk 
assessments. We were recognized in the 
COS Annual Safety Awards as finalists due 
to our use of bow ties on the Tubular Bells 
production hub in the Gulf of Mexico.
In Denmark, prior to the sale of our interests 
in that asset in August 2021, we continued 
to strengthen barrier effectiveness and 
maintenance as part of our effort to 
obtain third party validation for the asset’s 
performance standards, as required by 
applicable legislation. Specifically, we 
worked to validate existing assessments 
of threats, barriers and consequences for 
the asset to identify and mitigate safety 
risk. In 2021, we undertook a third party 
audit of selected performance tests to 
further validate the asset’s maintenance 
management system.
We began implementation of an electronic 
permit to work (ePTW) system at the Tioga Gas Plant in 2020 and continued 
implementation at Baldpate and Tubular 
Bells in 2021. The ePTW system 
strengthens our permit process, which 
ensures that risks are mitigated prior to 
conducting work, personnel are involved in 
planning the work and conducting a risk 
assessment, proper authorization is in 
place for the work to be carried out, the 
person in charge of an area is aware of 
the ongoing work and a formal handing 
back of the facility or equipment in a safe 
condition is in place.
We also proceeded with the implementation 
of an electronic management of change 
(eMOC) system in 2021. The eMOC 
system supports the HOMS requirement 
for effective management of planned or 
unplanned changes to people, processes 
and equipment, and improves consistency 
across our operations in order to improve 
our risk management and decision 
making capabilities.
Key Performance Metrics
Hess tracks process safety key 
performance indicators (KPIs) pursuant 
to the IOGP’s Process Safety  – 
Recommended Practice on Key 
Performance Indicators , Report No. 456, Safe Worker Onboarding for New Rigs
In 2021, we safely and successfully brought two drilling rigs into operation at 
our Bakken asset and one at our North Malay Basin asset. Onboarding drilling 
rigs can introduce additional safety risks because it can involve both new 
equipment and contractors. We address these risks by working with our 
contractors to plan work activities, conduct worker training and bridge our 
systems and processes.
For the two rigs we brought online in North Dakota, we undertook assurance 
readiness reviews to confirm all personnel were informed of the process, 
potential hazards and hazard mitigation processes. We also reaffirmed 
bridging between our management system and those of our long term, 
strategic drilling contractors to clarify roles and responsibilities and safety 
requirements, and thus help ensure alignment. Additionally, we adjusted the 
time frame to move the rigs to their new locations and adopted additional 
safety protocols to accommodate hazards associated with both extreme cold 
temperatures and the COVID-19 pandemic. Thanks in part to our onboarding process and long term supplier relationships, we were able to move, orient 
and onboard crews, as well as bring the new rigs online, with zero recordable 
safety incidents.
Though the specifics for rig onboarding are different for offshore rigs, 
we followed a similarly detailed and careful process to prioritize safety 
when bringing a rig online in North Malay Basin. In addition to conducting 
our usual preplanning assurance reviews, completing the contractor 
bridging process and partnering with a long term, strategic contractor, we 
implemented a new digital onboarding system that provided a streamlined, 
consistent and more automated avenue for us to track required training 
and certifications. This helped us confirm that people coming onto the rig – 
Hess employees, contractors and subcontractors, whether for an extended 
work rotation or a short term task – met our requirements. Even with the 
increased complexities caused by COVID-19, we brought this rig online with 
zero recordable safety incidents.
Process Safety Events
2019 2020 2021
Tier 1 
PSE Count6 0 2
Tier 2 
PSE Count10 19 12November 2018. Categorized as Tier 1 
and Tier 2 KPIs, these are reported at an 
enterprisewide level in both internal and 
external reports. 
We experienced an increase in the number 
of Tier 1 PSEs in 2021 – with two incidents 
in 2021 compared with zero in 2020. On 
a longer term basis, however, we have 
reduced the number of Tier 1 PSEs by 
60% between 2016 and 2021, based on 
our current portfolio of operated assets. 
We have completed investigations and root 
cause analyses of the Tier 1 PSEs that 
occurred in 2021 and are implementing 
appropriate corrective actions to help 
prevent similar incidents in the future.
We also track Tier 3 and Tier 4 KPIs, which 
are leading process safety indicators 
primarily designed to monitor risk control 32| 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSafety and Health
systems and process safety barriers 
at the facility, asset or enterprise level. 
Hess uses these KPIs to drive continuous 
improvement. An example of a global 
production Tier 4 KPI is the execution of 
required maintenance on ICE, which was 
an indicator that was again included in the 
2021 annual incentive plan for employees.
EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS  
AND RESPONSE
Hess’ emergency preparedness and 
response program is based on Element 
9 of HOMS and is designed to respond 
to actual or potential injuries to people, 
spills and releases to the environment, 
damage to our assets and impacts to the 
company’s reputation – in that order of 
priority. We use a three tiered approach to 
plan for and respond to emergencies that integrates communication and action from 
the corporate level in Houston to asset 
and facility level response teams. This 
system helps ensure that standards, plans, 
information and resources work efficiently 
so that we understand and address the 
specific needs of the situation at hand. 
Preparedness at Hess involves our 
emergency response organization 
(illustrated below, left), engagement with 
officials and communities, emergency 
facilities and response plans. We also 
maintain relationships with mutual aid 
and emergency response organizations 
at the local, regional and global levels. For 
example, international and domestic travel, 
medical and security incident responses 
are covered by our agreements with 
International SOS and Global Guardian. 
See page 61 for organizations that support 
our spill response needs.
We undertake regular emergency 
preparedness and response exercises 
to engage our employees and key 
stakeholders, including our contractors, 
in preparing for and responding to an 
incident. The exercises help to define 
and clarify roles, responsibilities and 
resources. They also include notification 
drills, in which personnel practice the 
communication protocols required in case of an emergency, and full scale equipment 
mobilization exercises. We conduct annual 
training on hurricane emergency response 
and choose other topics for training and 
drills using a risk based approach. 
Continuous improvement is an essential 
element of our Emergency Preparedness and 
Response Standard by which we incorporate 
lessons learned from incidents and exercises 
into our preparedness planning, training and 
future exercises. We conduct after-action 
reviews for all drills, exercises and incidents 
and develop improvement actions that are 
assigned to individuals with specific due 
dates and tracked in our internal incident 
reporting system.
In 2021, responding to the COVID-19 
pandemic remained a central focus of 
our emergency response efforts. While 
continuing to manage our ongoing 
response, we also began our transition to 
endemic management. We presented on 
COVID-19 management using our incident 
response structure at the Clean Gulf annual 
conference, allowing us to share our learnings 
with industry peers. See page 27 for more on 
our response to COVID-19.
Though 2021 was a less active hurricane 
season than in recent years, we initiated 
emergency response plans for three named 
hurricanes or tropical storms, as well as 
Winter Storm Uri in Texas. We successfully 
responded to each of these events with 
zero severe or significant safety incidents. 
In 2021, we also completed a cybersecurity 
training exercise that included our Houston 
based Incident Support Team and 
Cybersecurity Incident Response Team. The 
exercise identified areas for improvement in 
our Cybersecurity Plan and enhanced the 
familiarity with and ability to effectively use 
virtual collaboration and other information 
technology tools to manage an incident.
CONTRACTOR MANAGEMENT
Contractors are critical to Hess, constituting 
approximately 70% of our total workforce 
hours and performing key tasks throughout 
our operations. We continue to enhance Hess Emergency Response 
Organization
Incident Support Team  | HOUSTON
Incident Management Team  | ASSET
Emergency Response Team  | FACILITY
Production Operations, North Dakota33 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | Safety and Health
engagement with our contractors in safety 
and other key performance areas. For 
example, at our operated assets, we include 
contractor company leaders and frontline 
workers in our safety steering committees, 
which underpin our shared responsibility with 
contractors to create a culture that fosters 
open communication and continuous 
learning and improvement. We also included 
contractors in our 2021 Bakken safety 
culture survey to understand their views on 
the current state and performance of our 
safety programs at that asset.
We use a recognized industry safety database 
to standardize our prequalification processes 
across multiple sites for our U.S. operations. 
This enables us to clearly communicate 
requirements and expectations to our 
contractors and share information efficiently. 
For example, we use this database to track 
required safety training and certifications 
that contractors must have to work at our 
locations. Where appropriate, contractors also 
participate in Hess sponsored safety training.
HOMS Element 6 addresses contractor 
capabilities and competencies, and, as part 
of this framework, we have implemented 
a Contractor Management Standard at 
our operated assets. We are updating this 
standard as part of our ongoing HOMS 
optimization process (see pages 14–15). 
Key improvements include streamlining 
and integrating requirements across EHS, 
Global Supply Chain and operations. 
For in scope contractors, our current 
standard includes requirements from initial 
sourcing to contracting to reviewing the work 
they do for us. For example, the standard 
requires that we grade contractors based 
on factors such as past EHS performance 
and existing safety management systems. 
If a contractor receives an unsatisfactory 
grade based on EHS criteria, the Hess asset 
vice president or director must endorse 
a performance improvement action plan 
before that contractor can be approved for 
work or provide services on a Hess work 
location. If an operational situation such as an 
emergency requires the use of a contractor 
that has not completed the prequalification process or that has received an unsatisfactory 
EHS grade, the Hess asset vice president 
or director must approve the use of the 
contractor, and asset management must 
provide increased oversight.
As an extension of the Contractor 
Management Standard, in 2021, we 
implemented a new risk based contractor 
engagement process, which is at various 
stages of maturity at our assets, that 
requires certain engagement activities 
based on a contractor’s EHS risk profile. 
Where not otherwise required by applicable 
regulation, one of the required activities 
of the process is to perform “bridging” 
for higher risk, in scope contractors using 
a standard bridging philosophy and 
methodology that help bring consistency 
to the exercise and associated documents. 
Bridging works to align Hess’ expectations 
with those of our contractors. The contractor 
engagement process also helps us prioritize 
engagement with higher risk contractors 
and focus our contractor management 
resources accordingly through a range of 
activities including management system 
reviews and performance assessments.
Our standard contract clauses include 
contractual obligations for our contractors 
to have safety requirements and programs 
that meet Hess’ expectations. We audit 
contractors through annual management 
system reviews, desktop reviews and field 
verification to confirm compliance with 
contract obligations; applicable Hess EHS 
requirements; contractor EHS requirements; 
local, state and federal requirements; and 
industry standards and best practices. In 
2021, desktop reviews were conducted by 
third parties in place of in person interviews 
due to the COVID-19 pandemic.HEALTH AND WELLNESS
At Hess, we prioritize the health of our 
employees and contractors both on and  
off the job.
As part of our continuous improvement 
and HOMS optimization efforts, we are 
developing an enhanced Industrial Hygiene 
Procedure covering key occupational health 
requirements and processes. This procedure 
focuses on protecting workers from potential 
workplace health hazards and provides a 
consistent, efficient approach to health risk 
management. It includes ongoing workplace 
health hazard assessments, processes for 
monitoring exposure risks, requirements 
for workplace controls and mitigations 
including personal protective equipment 
and exposure monitors. 
To support compliance with government 
and company required health screenings, 
we have a dedicated mobile health clinic 
that enables us to undertake health 
testing internally and at our U.S. assets. 
This approach allows for efficiency and 
standardization and facilitates worker 
compliance with testing requirements. 
In key locations, such as Houston and North 
Dakota, and for eligible employees and their 
spouses, we offer a comprehensive wellness 
program that encompasses emotional, social, 
physical and financial wellbeing.
COVID-19 was the central focus of our 
employee health and wellness efforts in 
2021, as it had been in 2020. In addition 
to the safety protocols in place to protect 
employees, we provided enhanced mental 
health and work life balance support (see 
page 27 for more on our response to 
COVID-19).Prioritizing Worker Safety in the COVID-19 Pandemic
In 2021, we completed a significant maintenance turnaround of the Tioga Gas Plant, which required 
bringing in hundreds of workers in addition to permanent staff. To keep the entire workforce safe we 
implemented strict COVID-19 safe work practices such as wearing masks, social distancing, completing 
daily health questionnaires and regular COVID-19 testing for the entire workforce, including testing 
nonvaccinated workers every three days. The managed protocols resulted in a COVID-19 positivity rate  
of less than 0.3%, which was significantly below both the local and federal positivity rates at the time. Hess Office, Houston, TexasOur People
essential to being a socially responsible and 
sustainable enterprise.
Our expectations for a diverse and inclusive 
workplace and a company culture of 
mutual respect and trust are spelled out 
in our Code of Business Conduct and 
Ethics, as well as in our Equal Employment 
Opportunity, Harassment Free Workplace, 
Human Rights and Social Responsibility 
Policies and other Human Resources 
policies. These expectations are reinforced 
with employees at every level of our 
company through training.
We provide equal employment 
opportunities for all employees and job 
candidates regardless of race, color, 
religion, gender, age, sexual orientation, 
gender identity, creed, national origin, 
genetic information, disability, veteran 
status or any other protected status in 
all aspects of employment. We provide 
reasonable workplace accommodations  
for employees with disabilities, as well as 
for religious practices, family circumstances 
and other individual needs. We do not 
tolerate any form of workplace harassment, 
including sexual harassment.
In 2021, we took an important step 
forward in our DEI efforts by hiring a Head 
of DEI. This position plays a key role in 
guiding our DEI strategy and leads our 
newly created DEI Center of Excellence, 
a robust DEI ecosystem of people, 
programs and practices. We also hired 
an expert to lead our supplier related 
DEI efforts (see page 19), leaving us well 
positioned to launch the next phase of 
our DEI strategy in 2022.
Hess’ senior management is actively 
engaged in our DEI plans and programs, 
with oversight by our Board of Directors. 
Hess’ DEI work is supported by our 
DEI Council, which is comprised of the 
executive sponsors of our employee 
resource groups (ERGs) and other 
Hess executives. The Council provides 
leadership to advance DEI while helping 
ensure alignment with business priorities. 
Workforce activity and trends such as Hess’ success as a company depends  
on our people. To attract and retain the 
best, we cultivate a workplace culture that 
is guided by the Hess Values and reinforced 
by quality leadership; diversity, equity and 
inclusion (DEI); learning and engagement; and 
Lean and innovation processes. Our human 
capital strategy is led by Hess’ executive 
leadership and our Board of Directors.
We strive to deliver a positive and fulfilling 
work experience for employees through our 
Life at Hess initiative, which encompasses 
programs, policies, practices and a listening 
system that draws on leadership dialogues, 
pulse polls and data analytics to help leaders 
understand employee perspectives and 
assure the health of our company culture. 
This approach enabled us to quickly adapt to 
the changing needs of our employees during 
the COVID-19 pandemic.
EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS
At the start of 2021, Hess had 1,621 
employees. As of December 31, 2021, 
we had 1,545 employees; approximately 
91% were in the U.S. and 9% were in 
international locations. We hired 103 new 
employees during the year. 
The reduction in employees during 2021 
was due in part to the sales of our interests 
in Denmark and our Little Knife and Murphy 
Creek nonstrategic acreage interests in the 
Bakken in North Dakota.
2021 Employees by Country
United States 1,400 91%
Malaysia 142 9%
Libya 3 <1%
DIVERSITY, EQUITY  
AND INCLUSION
Hess has a longstanding commitment to 
DEI, an issue we have prioritized in our 
environment, health, safety and social 
responsibility strategy (see pages 8–9). We 
believe that a diverse and inclusive workforce 
creates value for all of our stakeholders and is employee turnover, promotions, diversity 
and leadership development metrics, 
along with qualitative information such as 
program development and progress, are 
considered by the Council. 
We prioritize diversity both in our 
workforce and in the composition of our 
Board of Directors. The Board updated 
its Corporate Governance Guidelines and 
has instructed its third party recruitment 
firm engaged in recruiting new Board 
members to include diverse individuals 
in the list of candidates. At present, 45% 
of the independent members of the Hess 
Board are diverse based on gender or 
race and ethnicity. Hess’ Board is also 
actively engaged in guiding and reviewing 
our DEI efforts and receives updates on 
this work at least annually. 
Recruiting Diverse Hires
In 2021, we continued to advance 
our efforts to attract more diverse 
job candidates and expanded our 
requirements for diverse interview slates. 
Hess continued to use HireVue recruiting 
technology to help access a larger talent 
pool; expanded our recruiting efforts at 
historically Black colleges and universities 
and reached more diverse candidates 
through the Professional Diversity Network 
and a partnership with the Greater 
Houston LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual, 
transgender) Chamber of Commerce; 
and advanced our relationship with the 
National GEM Consortium to develop 
diverse talent in science, technology, 
engineering and math at the master’s and 
doctoral levels. As part of the Genesys 
Works program, we welcomed five more 
high school interns who represent diverse 
backgrounds. We are also supporting the 
Jackie Robinson Foundation by funding 
college scholarships and by providing 
internships and mentoring support (see 
page 25).
Fostering Inclusion
Hess is committed to fostering an 
inclusive work environment where all 
employees can reach their full potential. 
35 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 36| 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORTOur People
We also create opportunities in the 
communities where we operate and our 
supply chain as a means to help address 
societal inequities.
In 2021, Hess leaders – including 
members of our President and Chief 
Operating Officer’s (COO’s) operating 
committee – participated in seven Hess 
VOICES listening sessions with small 
groups of underrepresented employees 
to better understand their experiences 
in society and at our company. Based 
on the themes identified through these 
sessions, we initiated a series of actions 
to advance Hess’ culture. This included 
launching five new ERGs, which provide an 
opportunity for employees to connect for 
personal and professional development. 
In addition to Women Inspiring Success 
and Excellence, an existing ERG, we now 
have Asians for Professional Excellence, 
Black Employees and Allies Community 
Network, Hess Vets, Spirit for lesbian, gay, 
bisexual, transgender and queer (LGBTQ) 
employees and Hispanic Organization for 
Leadership and Advancement.
During the first half of 2021, we continued 
to expand the rollout of our “Fostering 
an Inclusive Environment” online training 
module to help bring awareness to 
unconscious bias; 99% of our employees 
completed this online module. We trained 
a number of employees to be small group 
facilitators for additional DEI training 
sessions, which were attended by 96%of our employees when hosted later in 
the year. We also launched an Inclusive 
Leadership training pilot to build inclusive 
habits and capabilities needed to lead in a 
dynamic and diverse environment.
We remain committed to the professional 
growth of women. In 2021, we renewed 
our membership with Lean In Energy and 
continued to provide U.S. employees 
with membership in the Women’s 
Energy Network (WEN), both of which 
offer opportunities for enrichment, 
development, networking and mentoring. 
We also continued to support WEN’s 
Young Women Energized program, which 
provides scholarships and mentoring to 
exemplary female high school students in 
the Houston area.
Tracking Our Performance
We track employee demographic data 
including gender, race and ethnicity and 
publish our U.S. Equal Employment 
Opportunity Commission EEO-1 Report 
to enhance transparency. In 2021, women 
represented 27% of our global employees 
and people of color accounted for 24% 
of our U.S. employees, a year over year 
improvement of approximately 4% and 9%, 
respectively. Among new hires, women and 
people of color together accounted for 55% 
of our employees, up from 28% in 2020.
We also track the number of local national 
employees in our international operations 
and report publicly where the number of 
employees is 100 or more. In Malaysia, the proportion of local nationals holding 
managerial or professional positions has 
grown over the past five years and the 
percentage of all employees who are local 
nationals increased from 91% in 2020 to 
92% in 2021.
In 2021, Hess again earned external 
recognition for our DEI performance. We 
were included in the Bloomberg Gender 
Equality Index, which tracks and reports 
public companies’ performance on gender 
equality and representation and related 
disclosures. Additionally, after receiving a 
score of 85% on the 2021 Human Rights 
Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index 
(CEI), we raised our score to 100% on the 
2022 CEI. This index ranks the largest 
U.S. businesses on their practices 
related to LGBTQ equity and inclusion. 
For a comprehensive list of awards and 
recognition received in 2021, see page 69.
External Efforts
We endeavor to take a leadership role 
in our external efforts to help make our 
industry more diverse. We are a member 
of the Human Rights Campaign’s Business 
Coalition for the Equality Act. We also 
engage with groups such as Disability:IN, 
the Greater Houston LGBT Chamber of 
Commerce, the National Action Council 
for Minorities in Engineering, the Society 
of Women Engineers and the Veteran 
Jobs Mission. In 2021, Hess was among 
the first companies to pledge support 
for One Houston Together, a set of racial 
equity principles for the Houston business 
community aimed at reforming systems 
of bias and strengthening underserved 
communities.
TALENT MANAGEMENT
Hess takes a strategic and deliberate 
approach to talent development so that our 
employees have meaningful opportunities 
and a clear development path within the 
company. In 2021, we facilitated 159 internal 
promotions and 83 internal moves that 
created career development opportunities 
for 242 employees. Aligned with our efforts 
to help ensure inclusive and high quality 
succession planning, 25% of those promoted 
were women and 21% were people of color. 2021 Women and People of Color* Representation
Women (U.S. and International) People of Color (U.S. Based Employees)
Job 
CategoryTotal  
Employees in  
Job CategoryNumber  
of Women% 
WomenTotal  
Employees in  
Job CategoryNumber  
of People  
of Color% 
People  
of Color
Executives and 
Senior Officers32 5 16 32 6 19
First and Mid
Level Managers388 91 23 335 67 20
Professionals 779 261 34 699 207 30
Other 346 65 19 343 55 16
Total 1,545 422 27 1,409 335 24
*As defined by the U.S. Department of Labor.37 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | Our People
Learning and Development
We’re committed to continuous learning. 
Our enterprisewide learning management 
system, CareerManager Learning, houses 
computer based training modules and 
materials for instructor led courses, tracks 
employee training and measures training 
effectiveness. We more than doubled 
employee training hours in 2021, in part 
due to a renewed focus on DEI. Over 1,500 
employees participated in approximately 
5,300 hours of training, or an average of 3.4 
hours per employee, during the year.
New Hires and  
Early Career Programs
Passport to Hess is an onboarding and 
orientation program for new employees 
designed to facilitate their smooth 
transition. This includes a structured, on 
demand learning program that explains 
our culture and Hess Values. Supervisors 
are given tools and coaching to help new 
hires integrate into their teams.
We have maintained our three year 
Foundation Program to recruit college 
graduates and develop their careers. 
Approximately 35 early career engineers 
and geoscientists currently benefit from 
focused training, mentoring and on 
the job assignments. The diversity of 
participants in the program continues to 
increase and at the end of 2021 more 
than 75% were women or people of color. 
Hess continues to support the Job 
Experience Training (JET) apprenticeship 
program in North Dakota (see page 25). 
Since 2017, 31 apprentices have entered 
the JET program, 17 have completed the 
apprenticeship and 16 have become Hess 
employees.
BENEFITS
Hess’ compensation and benefits 
programs are focused on attracting and 
retaining a highly skilled workforce. We 
validate the competitiveness of these 
programs by reviewing them annually 
through industry specific surveys to 
identify and address compensation 
inequities, including pay parity based on 
gender, race and ethnicity in the U.S. In 2021, we enhanced our annual pay 
parity evaluation process by leveraging 
new technology to identify and review 
remediation for outliers, as appropriate, 
and continued to educate the workforce 
about our rewards strategy.
In 2021, we provided $100 million in 
benefits to our U.S. employees and  
their families, and extended coverage 
to offer equitable benefits for LGBTQ 
employees. We maintained our policy of 
awarding stock to new hires, which we view 
as an important benefit and incentive for 
supporting our long term success.
We provide an award winning wellness 
program focusing on emotional, 
social, physical and financial wellbeing 
to employees and their spouses and 
partners. We contribute to our employees’ 
Health Savings Accounts and offer 
employees an additional contribution 
that they can earn by participating in the 
wellness program throughout the year. 
Based on a review of aggregated, 
anonymized data of our employees’ 
medical needs, we added two new valuable 
health benefits in 2021 for employees and 
family members. Livongo offers digital 
diabetes management to help control 
blood sugar levels and prevent future health 
complications. Hinge Health offers digital 
physical therapy exercises and education to 
address chronic lower back pain and other 
musculoskeletal conditions.
We also continued our education 
assistance program in 2021, with 53 
employees taking advantage of this benefit.
In 2021, we established the Hess Severe 
Weather Texas Employee Relief Plan 
to support employees whose homes 
were damaged during Winter Storm Uri. 
It covered reasonable and necessary 
expenses not covered by insurance or 
another party and provided benefits 
including up to $5,000 to cover short 
term essentials and up to three months of 
temporary housing and car rental.
See an overview of our benefits  
at hessbenefits.comEMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
We regularly share information with and 
solicit feedback from employees about 
our business performance, programs and 
processes through town hall meetings, 
webcasts and small group discussions, 
as well as the company intranet. During 
2021, our CEO and our President and 
COO hosted three town hall webcasts and 
shared an outlook on the external business 
environment, strategic priorities and 
business performance.
In 2021, we expanded the use of an online 
employee communications platform called 
Workplace. About 80% of employees now 
regularly use the platform to keep in touch 
with each other, follow the latest Hess news 
and participate in more than 100 groups 
dedicated to recognition, wellness, ERGs, 
business initiatives, community activities 
and more.
We also poll employees throughout the 
year to assess engagement based on pride 
in our company, enthusiasm about our 
future, whether they feel valued and if they 
believe Hess is a great place to work. For 
the past three years, we maintained a high 
employee engagement score (four on a 
five point scale) on these assessments. We 
also piloted a new survey tool in the Bakken 
to provide deeper insight into employee 
sentiment and plan to deploy it across the 
company in 2022.
Throughout the year, our employees 
helped to make a positive impact on our 
communities through volunteering and 
charitable giving. Our Volunteer Policy 
allows employees to participate in company 
sponsored volunteer events during business 
hours. Our workforce spent nearly 18,800 
hours volunteering in 2021, including 
approximately 17,000 hours distributing meals 
to Houstonians in need due to the pandemic 
through the nonprofit Second Servings. 
Employees can also request 1:1 matching 
gifts of up to $5,000 annually for personal 
donations, and qualified charities may receive 
a $500 grant on behalf of employees who 
support that charity on their own time. Our 
employees donated approximately $481,000 
through our matching gift program in 2021.Drilling Operations, North DakotaHess’ Climate Change Position
We see climate change as the greatest scientific challenge of the 21st 
century. We believe climate risks can and should be addressed while at the 
same time meeting the growing demand for affordable and secure energy, 
which is essential to ensure a just and orderly energy transition that aligns 
with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Governments, 
businesses and civil society must work together on cost effective policies 
to meet this dual challenge, and we support transparent carbon pricing to 
encourage the investments needed to accelerate decarbonization across 
all sectors of the economy while keeping energy affordable. We review 
the climate positions of our major advocacy organizations on an ongoing 
basis and, in the event that those positions appear misaligned or become 
misaligned with Hess’ positions, we will share our viewpoint in an attempt to 
more closely align their position with ours.
We support the global ambition to achieve net zero emissions by 2050 and 
the Paris Agreement’s aim to limit global average temperature rise to well 
below 2°C. Our climate strategy is closely aligned with the recommendations 
of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures, as established 
by the G20 Financial Stability Board, and its implementation is led by senior 
members of our leadership team with oversight by our Board of Directors. 
As part of our commitment to implement a substantive climate strategy, an 
executive led task force is currently developing a plan for our company to 
achieve net zero Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
Our Board of Directors is climate change literate, and we periodically bring in 
subject matter experts to advise our Board on climate and other sustainability 
issues to be considered in the development of company strategies and policies. 
Our Board’s Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Committee, comprised of 
independent directors, has a mandate to identify, evaluate, monitor and report 
to the full Board on climate change issues, trends, risks and opportunities. 
This committee is actively engaged in overseeing Hess’ sustainability practices 
and works alongside senior management to evaluate climate change risks and 
global scenarios in making strategic decisions. For example, the committee has 
been providing oversight of the executive led task force that is working on the 
elements of our Low Carbon Transition Framework, including a plan to achieve 
net zero Scope 1 and 2 emissions. Furthermore, the Board’s Compensation 
and Management Development Committee has tied executive compensation 
to advancing the company’s EHS and climate change goals.Our business planning includes actions we will undertake to continue reducing 
our carbon footprint consistent with the aim of the Paris Agreement to limit global 
average temperature rise to well below 2°C. As we work to develop our net zero 
emissions plan, our Board and senior leadership have set aggressive short and 
medium term greenhouse gas reduction targets. These targets are designed 
to exceed the carbon intensity reductions by 2030 in the International Energy 
Agency’s (IEA’s) Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS) and Net Zero Emissions 
by 2050 Scenario (NZE), which are consistent with the Paris Agreement.
As part of our sustainability commitment, we seek to fund innovation with the 
potential to mitigate societal emissions, including the Salk Institute’s Harnessing 
Plants Initiative, which aims to develop plants with larger root systems that are 
capable of absorbing and storing potentially billions of tons of carbon per year  
from the atmosphere (see page 53). In 2020, we announced a $12.5 million  
gift to the Salk Institute, and in 2021, we announced another $3 million gift. 
We also address 100% of the indirect Scope 2 emissions from our purchased 
electricity through the purchase of renewable energy certificates.
We account for the cost of carbon in significant new capital investment decisions. 
We conduct scenario planning that includes the SDS and NZE to test the resilience 
of Hess’ portfolio against a range of energy supply and demand, environmental 
policies and market conditions. According to the IEA, the world is not investing 
enough to meet its future energy needs, and uncertainties over policies and demand 
trajectories create a strong risk of a volatile period ahead for energy markets. In 
2022, we tested Hess’ portfolio under the IEA’s four scenarios, including the SDS 
and NZE. We have concluded that Hess can continue to monetize our reserves 
and deliver strong performance under a wide range of market conditions, including 
under the aggressive conditions assumed in the SDS. Under the NZE, a normative 
scenario that reflects a narrow pathway for the global energy sector to achieve net 
zero carbon dioxide emissions by 2050, we could still monetize the majority of our 
reserves but would expect lower cash margins. We also consider potential physical 
risks associated with climate change, such as increased severity of storms, drought 
and flooding, for new projects and existing operations.
Hess’ strategic priorities – to deliver high return resource growth, a low cost of 
supply and industry leading cash flow growth – are aligned with the energy transition 
needed to achieve the IEA SDS and position us well for the coming decades.
39 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | Climate Change and Energy
HESS’ LOW CARBON  
TRANSITION FRAMEWORK 
Many corporations, lenders and investors 
are integrating climate change risks and 
opportunities into their future financial 
planning. The Task Force on Climate-
Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
provides a universal framework to 
communicate companies’ responses to  
the physical, reputational and transition risks 
of climate change, which has become the 
leading approach for climate disclosure. Through widespread adoption of the TCFD 
recommendations, climate related risks 
and opportunities are meant to become 
integrated into companies’ risk management 
and strategic planning processes. We 
believe that Hess’ climate change strategy  
is aligned with the TCFD’s 2017 guidance, 
which contained recommendations to 
evaluate the potential impacts of climate 
change related risks and opportunities on 
our organization’s operations, strategy and 
financial planning. We are continuing to advance the elements of our TCFD related 
disclosures so that they are aligned with the 
revised guidance issued in October 2021. 
On the following pages, we detail our Low 
Carbon Transition Framework, aligned with 
the four core TCFD elements: governance, 
strategy, risk management, and metrics 
and targets. We will continue to update 
this framework as we develop our net zero 
Scope 1 and 2 emissions plan.40 | 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORTClimate Change and Energy
Hess’ Low Carbon Transition Framework
Governance — Key Disclosures and Actions References
Board Oversight of Climate Related Risks and Opportunities
Approval : Hess’ climate related actions and targets are reviewed and approved by senior leadership and executives, the Board of Directors’ 
Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Committee and the full Board.
Oversight : The Board’s EHS Committee is tasked with assisting the full Board in identifying, evaluating and monitoring EHS risks and strategies 
(including climate change). Oversight is provided by the Board’s EHS Committee and the full Board. EHS Committee Charter
Organizational Expertise and Training : The Board is briefed by external climate change experts and by our Vice President of EHS on climate 
related risks, opportunities, strategies and policies.
Management ’s Role in Assessing and Managing Climate Related Risks and Opportunities
Incentives : Employee compensation is linked to EHS and climate initiatives, including flaring reduction. 2022 Proxy, page 27
Monitoring, Reporting and Review :
•  Our Vice President of EHS monitors monthly progress toward various elements of Hess’ climate strategy, including progress toward our short and 
medium term goals and development of our long term objectives.
•  Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and production data is collected, monitored and reported through various data management systems, 
enabling Hess asset and business function leaders to track progress toward GHG performance targets.
•  Each business unit revisits its GHG emissions and production forecast for the life of its assets on an annual basis, or more frequently if necessary.
•  Our Vice President of External Affairs evaluates alignment with our trade associations with respect to climate related issues and this analysis 
is shared with Hess senior executives and the Board’s EHS Committee.Pages 11, 16–17, 39, 42, 51–53
Accountability : 
• Our CEO has broad oversight of climate related issues.
•  An executive led task force is leading implementation of our climate change strategy, with oversight provided by our Chief Operating Officer 
and members of the Hess operating committee.
•  Senior executives have accountability for execution of this strategy and members of the Hess workforce have appropriate levels of authority and 
access to resources to effectively execute the strategy.Pages 11, 39, 42
Transparency : Hess provides transparency to external stakeholders on transition planning goals and performance, including performance against 
targets and impacts on our business and financial results, in our annual sustainability report and reporting to third parties (e.g., responses to the 
CDP climate change questionnaire and the S&P Global Corporate Sustainability Assessment).Pages 49–57
Assurance : Hess’ sustainability report, including our performance data for key sustainability metrics, is assured annually by an independent third party. Page 68
Strategy — Key Disclosures and Actions References
As an important aspect of its 2021 guidance, the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) encourages companies to set their 
own strategy time frames according to the lifecycle of their assets and the profile of climate related risks they face. Hess has chosen to define our 
climate strategy time horizons as follows:Page 8
Short Term Strategy (2021–2024)
Our short term strategy (0–3 years) primarily addresses near term business decisions required for operational budgetary and planning purposes. 
•  Endorse the World Bank’s Zero Routine Flaring by 2030 Initiative
•  Set annual targets to support our medium and longer term GHG, methane and flaring objectives (e.g., Bakken routine flaring intensity 
reduction target)
•  Purchase renewable energy certificates (RECs) and/or offsets to address 100% of our Scope 2 emissions from purchased electricity and 
purchase carbon offsets to mitigate 100% of our business travel related Scope 3 emissions
•  Apply technological innovation and efficiency to decrease energy use and GHG emissions across our operations and continue to explore 
additional opportunities to do so
•  Work with government and industry partners to advance the development of a range of low GHG emissions pathways and technological advancements
•  Invest in innovative research and scientific solutions to mitigate climate change on a societal levelPage 49
Medium Term Strategy (2025–2031)
Our medium term strategy (4–10 years) primarily addresses project level changes at our various assets.
•  Set interim targets to continue reducing GHG and methane emissions and flaring in support of longer term objectives
• Purchase RECs and/or offsets to address Scope 2 GHG emissions
•  Engage joint venture partner companies on their climate strategies, plans and targets for our nonoperated assets
•  Continue to evaluate opportunities to apply technological innovation and efficiency to decrease energy use and GHG emissions across our 
operations, work with partners to advance the development of a range of low GHG emissions pathways and technological advancements, and 
invest in innovative research and scientific solutions to mitigate climate change on a societal levelPages 49–50
Long Term Strategy (2032+)
Our long term strategy (10+ years) will primarily address changes in energy supply and demand and related policies, as well as the emergence 
of new technologies, that could alter the company's overall portfolio. We are developing a plan to achieve net zero Scope 1 and 2 emissions and are 
focused on examining additional opportunities to address the remainder of our GHG emissions through a combination of operational practices, 
energy efficiency projects and advanced technologies still in development, along with the purchase of carbon offsets.Page 51Pages 11, 39, 42
2021 Form 10-K, pages 28–2941 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | Climate Change and Energy
Hess’ Low Carbon Transition Framework, continued
Risk Management — Key Disclosures and Actions References
Hess applies a comprehensive, standardized approach to identifying, integrating and managing risks of all types, including climate change, 
across our operations. We develop a holistic risk profile for the enterprise based on the risk registers, risk assessments and heat maps for our 
assets and projects, and climate related risks are considered in both enterprise and functional risk assessments. Risks are considered significant 
when the potential financial impact is greater than $100 million and the likelihood of occurrence is medium or greater (based on a number of risk 
categories). We track identified risks and corresponding mitigation scenarios on an integrated risk register.
Our enterprise risk management (ERM) framework enables Hess’ Board of Directors and executive leadership to strengthen the consistency of risk 
consideration in making business decisions. Our Board has oversight of the ERM framework and is charged with understanding the key risks 
affecting the company’s business and how those risks are managed.Pages 12–13, 45–48 
Energy Transition Risks
Hess examines energy transition risks, which are risks associated with the rate of change in policy actions, technologies or market conditions 
aimed at emissions reductions, energy efficiencies, subsidies or taxes that may be needed to achieve climate related aims.
•  We incorporate carbon risk scenario analysis into our business planning cycle to test the resilience of our portfolio against various alternative views 
of future market conditions, including evaluation of the most ambitious International Energy Agency GHG reduction scenarios, where sufficient 
public data is available to conduct modeling.
•  Results of our annual scenario based carbon asset risk assessment are published in our sustainability report.
•  Our annual scenario analysis is verified against our internal scenario analysis guidance by a third party.Page 43
2021 Form 10-K, pages 19–23
Physical Risks
Hess considers potential physical risks associated with climate change, such as increased severity of storms, droughts and flooding, for both 
new projects and existing operations through our ERM and value assurance processes.
•  Meteorological and oceanographic studies undertaken for offshore developments include modeling that incorporates assumptions from the 
latest climate science.
•  Mitigations that address changing storm magnitude are incorporated into the design of our facilities, where appropriate.
•  We maintain severe weather and business continuity plans.
•  We maintain asset and company level emergency response teams and conduct training and exercises against our plans.
•  We assess how climate change may impact water availability and water stress in areas where we operate. Page 43
2021 Form 10-K, pages 19–23
Reputational Risks
The TCFD identifies climate change as a potential source of reputational risk, categorized by shifts in consumer preferences, stigmatization of  
a sector and increased stakeholder concern or negative stakeholder feedback.
•  Hess undertook an exercise to measure the potential impacts to Hess’ market valuation from changes in corporate reputation driven by climate 
related risks, which did not produce a statistically significant correlation.
•  As of March 2022, Hess’ RepRisk rating of A classifies our company as having low ESG risk exposure, which is comparable to many of our peers.
•  We find that these types of climate related reputational risks are being managed and mitigated through our ERM process.
•  We will continue to monitor and mitigate our exposure to reputational risk.Page 44
Metrics and Targets — Key Disclosures and Actions References
The TCFD ’s October 2021 guidance document, Implementing the Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures , defines 
seven cross industry climate related metrics that companies should disclose in their sustainability reports. We have addressed three of those metrics in 
this sustainability report, and are working toward disclosure of the other four. We have also defined the time frames for our climate related targets in line 
with our short, medium and long term strategy, as detailed below.
TCFD Cross Industry Climate Related Metrics Disclosed in This Sustainability Report
•  GHG emissions 
• Carbon price(s) 
• RemunerationPages 51–57
TCFD Cross Industry Climate Related Metrics under Development
We are developing appropriate methodologies to track the following metrics and anticipate reporting them in a future sustainability report:
•  Transition risks
• Physical risks
• Climate related opportunities
• Capital deploymentPages 42–48
Hess Short Term Climate Related Targets (2021–2024)
•  Achieve a 7% flaring rate from Bakken wells and pads, as reported to the North Dakota Industrial Commission, in 2021 (goal achieved in 2021)
• Reduce Bakken operations’ routine flaring rate to 5% in 2022Page 49
Hess Medium Term Climate Related Targets (2025–2031)
•  Reduce the GHG emissions intensity of our operated assets to 17 kilograms carbon dioxide equivalent per BOE by the end of 2025 
•  Reduce the methane emissions intensity of our operated assets to 0.19% by the end of 2025
• Achieve zero routine flaring at our operated assets by the end of 2025Pages 49–50
Hess Long Term Climate Related Targets (2032+)
 Our long term targets will be established by the executive led task force that is developing a plan to achieve net zero Scope 1 and 2 emissions. Page 5142
| 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORTClimate Change and EnergyEXTERNAL ENGAGEMENT
We engage with key stakeholders including 
government agencies, investors, private 
landowners and communities on issues such 
as climate change, and we will continue to 
communicate on these topics in our annual 
sustainability report and the sustainability 
section of our company website.
We participate in a number of voluntary 
initiatives related to climate change 
disclosure, and Hess has consistently been 
recognized as a leader in the oil and gas 
industry for the quality of our performance 
and our disclosure relating to sustainability 
(see page 69).
In 2021, Hess achieved the highest level 
rating (Level 4-strategic assessment) by 
the Transition Pathway Initiative (TPI), a 
global initiative that assesses companies’ 
preparedness for the transition to a low 
carbon economy and their efforts to address 
climate change. TPI complements and aligns 
with existing climate reporting initiatives and 
frameworks such as the TCFD.
We also achieved leadership status in 
CDP’s 2021 Global Climate Analysis, a 
position we have held for 13 consecutive 
years. CDP’s ranking recognizes our 
continued leadership in transparency 
and performance as we address climate 
related risks and opportunities. Hess is 
one of only two U.S. oil and gas producers 
to achieve leadership status in the 2021 
analysis, earning an A-. We obtained an 
A- by earning high marks in many of the 
leadership categories critical to the TCFD.
Access our latest CDP Climate Change 
response and CDP Score Report at hess.com/
sustainability/climate-change-energy
GOVERNANCE
Hess’ Board of Directors works alongside 
senior management and oversees Hess’ 
sustainability practices so that sustainability 
risks and opportunities are taken into 
account when making strategic decisions.
The Board’s Environmental, Health and 
Safety (EHS) Committee has a mandate to identify, evaluate, monitor and report to the 
full Board on climate change issues, trends, 
risks and opportunities. This committee 
is actively engaged in overseeing Hess’ 
sustainability practices and works alongside 
senior management to evaluate climate 
change risks and global scenarios in 
making strategic decisions. The Board 
is periodically briefed by experts to help 
ensure members remain climate change 
literate and that climate change related 
risks are considered in the development 
of company strategies and policies. Our 
Vice President of EHS facilitated three EHS 
Committee meetings in 2021 to provide 
updates on climate change related issues 
and strategic initiatives, to review external 
drivers for strategy and reporting, and to 
prioritize ongoing and future actions. (See 
page 11 for more detail on governance.)
In late 2020, Hess established a task 
force to lead our climate change strategy 
implementation and to evaluate the medium 
and long term aspects of our strategy. 
The task force is comprised of nine 
senior executives responsible for various 
functions throughout the company, 
with oversight provided by our Chief 
Operating Officer and members of his 
operating committee. The task force was 
instrumental in Hess’ endorsement of 
the World Bank’s Zero Routine Flaring by 
2030 Initiative (ZRF) and our commitment 
to achieve zero routine flaring by the end 
of 2025. The task force is also charged 
with developing our plan to achieve net 
zero Scope 1 and 2 emissions. The task 
force will continue to monitor, enhance 
and evaluate Hess’ progress toward these 
objectives, as well as assess emerging 
technologies with emissions reduction 
potential.  
As an added measure to incentivize 
Hess employees and executives to 
continue to support our industry leading 
performance in sustainability, we link 
employee compensation to EHS and climate initiatives, including flare reduction. 
The annual incentive plan (AIP) payout is 
primarily determined based on enterprise 
performance results that align with the 
company’s business strategy and applies to 
all employees. The EHS component of the 
total AIP metric is 20%, and our climate 
related AIP target accounts for 5% of the 
total AIP.
Access our 2022 Proxy Statement at 
investors.hess.com/Financial-Information/
SEC-Filings
INVESTMENT DECISIONS
All significant new investment proposals, 
as presented for approval to senior 
management, incorporate the cost of 
carbon as set out in our planning guidance 
documentation. In geographies where there 
is an established regulatory framework 
in relation to carbon dioxide (CO2) cost, 
impacts are included in the base case 
of the investment analysis. Where there 
is currently no regulatory framework, we 
evaluate the potential impact of carbon 
cost as set out in our planning guidance.  
In 2021, we updated our planning guidance 
to expand the evaluation for all significant 
investment decisions to include sensitivities 
using the International Energy Agency’s 
(IEA’s) carbon pricing in one of its most 
stringent scenarios, the Sustainable 
Development Scenario (SDS).
RISK MANAGEMENT
Through our enterprise risk management 
(ERM) process, we have developed a 
holistic risk profile for the enterprise based 
on the risk registers, risk assessments 
and heat maps for our assets and 
projects. For each risk scenario, we 
estimate the likelihood and potential 
impact that the identified risks, including 
physical, reputational and transition 
related climate change risks, could have 
on our business. We track all identified 
risks on an integrated risk register 
that catalogs actions for managing or 
mitigating each risk.43
2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | Climate Change and EnergyEnergy Transition Risks
Energy transition risks are the risks 
associated with the rate of change in 
policy actions, technologies or market 
conditions aimed at emissions reductions, 
energy efficiencies, subsidies or taxes 
related to climate related objectives. In 
order to assess a broad range of energy 
transition risks, and as an integral part 
of our planning cycle, we conduct an 
annual scenario based carbon asset risk 
assessment (see pages 45–48).
Physical Risks
Hess considers the potential physical 
risks associated with climate change – 
such as increased severity of storms, 
droughts and flooding – for both 
new projects and existing operations 
through our ERM and value assurance 
processes. For example, meteorological 
and oceanographic studies undertaken for 
offshore developments include modeling 
that incorporates assumptions from the 
latest climate change science. Mitigations 
to address changing storm magnitude 
are incorporated into the design of our 
facilities, where appropriate, and severe 
weather management and business 
continuity plans are maintained for severe 
weather events. (See page 32 for details 
of our emergency preparedness and 
response efforts related to the 2021 
Atlantic hurricane season.)
We also assess how climate change may 
impact water availability and water stress 
in the areas we operate using the World 
Resources Institute’s (WRI’s) Aqueduct 
Tool (see page 59).
In 2019, we initiated a phased program of 
climate related physical risk assessments 
to inform our wider ERM process 
on potential climate impacts. These 
assessments consider the potential 
impact to the facilities and infrastructure 
we operate, as well as how these may 
be affected by predicted future climate 
change scenarios. The geospatial output from these assessments allows us to 
overlay climate variables such as extreme 
heat stress, extreme cold, rainfall, water 
stress, fire, storm intensity and coastal 
flooding projections and create heat maps 
showing the changes from the baseline 
values for our current and planned 
operations. We have adopted a flexible 
approach to these assessments that will 
enable us to reevaluate climate impacts as 
the science evolves and as our operations 
change and adapt.
We completed the first assessment on 
our Gulf of Mexico operations in 2020 and 
the second on our Bakken operations 
in 2021. We identified potential risks 
associated with worker heat stress and 
flooding of coastal logistics infrastructure 
related to our assets in the Gulf of Mexico. 
However, these risks are not unique to 
Hess and would also apply broadly to the 
oil and gas industry and other industrial 
sectors and would necessitate mitigation 
at a state and national level.For our Bakken operations, we identified a 
potential increase in extreme heat stress, 
decrease in extreme cold, mild increase in 
rainfall and negligible change in extreme 
drought, all compared with the baseline. 
Furthermore, the Bakken assessment 
projected water stress to be at a medium 
risk in the future compared with the baseline 
generated using the WRI Aqueduct tool.  
We will continue to monitor and assess 
these potential impacts and to determine 
what mitigations and adaptations may  
be required.
We plan to conduct further assessments 
across our portfolio in 2022 and 2023.
We also maintain insurance coverage for 
physical damage to our property and liability 
related to negative environmental effects 
resulting from a sudden and accidental 
pollution event, excluding Atlantic Named 
Windstorm coverage, for which we are self 
insured. The amount of insurance covering 
physical damage is based on the asset’s 
estimated replacement value or the estimated 
maximum loss.
Offshore Operations, Gulf of Thailand44 | 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORTClimate Change and Energy
Reputational Risks
The TCFD identifies climate change as 
a potential source of reputational risk or 
opportunity for companies. The TCFD 
further categorizes reputational risks and 
opportunities posed by climate change 
into three distinct categories:
• Shifts in consumer preferences
• Stigmatization of a sector
• Increased stakeholder concern or 
negative stakeholder feedback
In 2019, to address this potential risk as 
identified by the TCFD, Hess undertook 
an exercise to measure the potential impacts of changes in corporate 
reputation (driven by climate change 
risks and opportunities) on Hess’ market 
valuation. Our analysis used a Capital 
Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) to calibrate 
the historical relationship between the 
stock price return of Hess and changes 
in our RepRisk exposure, oil prices and 
S&P’s Oil and Gas Stock Price Index.
RepRisk – a global data science company 
focused on due diligence of material 
environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) risks – produces a quantitative 
summary of the ESG risk exposure of a 
company, including climate related risks. RepRisk’s assessment of the ESG risk 
exposure of a company is based on the 
company’s activities observed by media, 
stakeholders and third party sources and 
excludes information provided by the 
company itself. A company’s RepRisk 
ESG exposure is based on a combination 
of company specific ESG risk and country 
sector ESG risk determined by where 
the company operates. A company’s 
RepRisk rating is a proprietary risk metric 
ranging from AAA to D, which captures 
and quantifies a company’s risk exposure 
related to ESG issues. As of March 2022, 
Hess’ RepRisk rating of A classifies our 
company as having low ESG risk exposure, 
which is comparable to many of our 
peers. Due to our exit from downstream 
businesses with more exposure to end 
users, our ESG risk exposure, as measured 
by RepRisk, has continued to decline over 
time.
The goal of our analysis was to measure 
the potential impact of changes in RepRisk 
scores for Hess resulting from the publication 
of a series of historical news articles related 
to climate change risks and then correlate 
this impact to a change in market valuation 
for Hess. The CAPM model showed a 
moderately statistically significant correlation 
between our stock price and our RepRisk 
score when general market conditions were 
assumed to be held constant; however, this 
did not result in substantial changes in Hess’ 
market valuation. 
While we found this exercise helpful, we 
have not repeated it because we found that 
measuring and valuing reputational risks 
and opportunities is extremely challenging 
due to the difficulty of isolating the long term 
climate change related reputation impacts 
from other company specific, industry 
related and stock market fluctuations. In 
addition, we found that these types of 
climate related risks, for the most part, 
have already been identified through Hess’ 
ERM process and are being managed and 
mitigated through that process.
Midstream Operations, North Dakota45 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | Climate Change and Energy
Carbon Asset Risk Assessment
To help quantify climate related risks and opportunities – and to provide 
perspectives to our investors and other key stakeholders on how Hess’ 
oil and gas portfolio might be impacted by a transition to a lower carbon 
economy – Hess conducts an annual scenario planning exercise to 
assess portfolio resilience over the longer term. This scenario based 
approach allows us to assess and communicate to our shareholders 
our understanding of future risks and opportunities in relation to the 
potential evolution of energy demand, energy mix, the emergence of 
new technologies and possible changes by policymakers with respect to 
greenhouse gas emissions.
In accordance with the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial  
Disclosures’ (TCFD's) recommended transparency around key parameters,  
assumptions and analytical choices, Hess has chosen to model the four  
key scenarios detailed in the International Energy Agency’s (IEA's) 2021  
World Energy Outlook  (WEO) against our own internal base planning case. 
The TCFD recommends that organizations use a scenario under which 
global warming is kept to well below a 2°C increase during this century, 
compared with preindustrial levels, to test portfolio resilience. Such 
scenarios usually feature a reduction in demand for oil, natural gas and  
coal and a growth in clean technologies. The Sustainable Development  
Scenario (SDS) and Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Scenario (NZE) in  
the IEA’s 2021 WEO, which are part of Hess’ modeling, fit with  
this recommendation.Considerations for Carbon Risk Scenario Assessment
To evaluate the potential exposure of our portfolio in a carbon constrained future, 
we began by considering the long range outlook for energy supply and demand, 
as well as for oil, natural gas and carbon prices. We have used the IEA’s 2021 
WEO to examine supply and demand and oil, natural gas and carbon price 
scenarios through 2050 in the Stated Policies Scenario (STEPS), Announced 
Pledges Scenario (APS), SDS and NZE (see iea.org/reports/ world-energy-
outlook-2021 ). These scenarios are recognized as a leading industry 
standard and benchmark worldwide and are, therefore, an appropriate choice 
for an oil and gas producer such as Hess. 
An important consideration when reviewing the results of our analysis is that 
the SDS and NZE are considered reverse engineered or “normative forecasts,” 
meaning they are designed to achieve a specific outcome, and the pathway 
to reach that outcome may be a narrow one. For example, over 50% of the 
reductions needed to achieve the NZE come from technologies that are currently 
in the demonstration or prototype stage, meaning they are not readily available 
on the market. The two other IEA scenarios used in our modeling, STEPS and 
APS, define a set of starting conditions and then project a path forward based on 
those conditions. Additionally, according to the IEA, the scenarios in the WEO are 
designed to “describe a smooth, orderly process of change,” while in practice, 
“energy transitions can be volatile and disjointed affairs” (2021 WEO, page 68).
The charts below  depict the 2021 WEO’s world energy supply and carbon 
dioxide (CO2) emissions under the IEA’s four key scenarios.
World Primary Energy Demand by Fuel and Energy Related Carbon Dioxide Emissions by IEA Scenario
05101520
010203040
2050 2040 2030 2020 2019 2017 2010
■  Other Renewables ■  Bioenergy ■  Hydrogen ■  Nuclear 
■  Natural Gas ■  Oil ■  Coal ■  CO2 equivalent
Gigatons  of Carbon DioxideAnnounced Pledges Scenario
05101520
010203040
2050 2040 2030 2020 2019 2017 2010Billion Tons of Oil EquivalentSustainable Development Scenario
■  Other Renewables ■  Bioenergy ■  Hydrogen ■  Nuclear ■  Natural Gas ■  Oil ■  Coal   CO2 equivalent05101520
010203040
2050 2040 2030 2020 2019 2017 2010
■  Other Renewables ■  Bioenergy ■  Hydrogen ■  Nuclear 
■  Natural Gas ■  Oil ■  Coal ■  CO2 equivalent
Gigatons  of Carbon DioxideNet Zero Emissions by 2050 Scenario05101520
010203040
2050 2040 2030 2020 2019 2017 2010
■  Other Renewables ■  Bioenergy ■  Hydrogen ■  Nuclear ■  Natural Gas ■  Oil ■  Coal   CO2 equivalentBillion Tons of Oil EquivalentStated Policies ScenarioCarbon Asset Risk Assessment, continued
46 | 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORTClimate Change and Energy
In STEPS, which is consistent with enacted energy policies and a pragmatic 
view of proposed policies, worldwide energy supply is expected to grow by 
approximately 21% between 2019 and 2050. While there is a decline in 
supply for coal in this scenario, between 2019 and 2050, oil and natural 
gas are expected to grow by 6% and 24%, respectively, and account for 
approximately 50% of the energy mix in 2050.
In APS, worldwide energy supply is expected to grow by approximately 10% 
between 2019 and 2050, while oil and natural gas supply are expected to decline 
by approximately 21% and 6%, respectively. However, even with this decline, oil 
and natural gas supply still represent over 42% of the total energy mix in 2050.
In the SDS, worldwide energy supply is projected to experience a moderate 
decline of approximately 6% between 2019 and 2050. Oil and natural gas 
supply are projected to decrease by 47% during that same time frame, 
accounting for approximately 30% of the energy mix in 2050.
The IEA acknowledges that society is not on the NZE pathway. In the NZE, 
worldwide energy supply is projected to essentially remain flat between 
2019 and 2050. This scenario, which is a normative forecast, is designed 
Average Annual Upstream Oil and Gas  
Investment by Scenario, $ Billion (2020)
STEPS APS NZE
2021–  
20302031–  
20502021–  
20302031–  
20502021–  
20302031–  
2050
Existing Fields 244 255 240 204 288 171
New Fields 403 436 331 251 77 0
Total 647 691 572 455 365 171
Note: Total investment in existing and new fields was $330 billion in 2020.  
The IEA does not provide updated investment data for the SDS in the 2021 
WEO. New fields also include those that have already been approved. to drive a specific outcome. In 2050, renewables are projected to account 
for approximately 67% of the total energy mix, while oil and natural gas are 
projected to account for approximately 20% of the energy mix.
Oil and Gas Investment in IEA’s 2021 Scenarios
Annual upstream oil and gas investment is assumed to be significantly 
higher in the STEPS and APS during 2021–2050 and in the NZE during 
2021–2030, when compared with 2020, in order to meet energy supply 
requirements (see the IEA table below, left).
Hess’ Approach to Scenario Planning
The TCFD recommends that once a less than 2°C scenario is established, 
companies should define a base case or business as usual outlook for the 
future. The base case should use the same set of metrics as the less than 2°C 
scenario (e.g., oil demand, carbon prices and other market factors) and share 
the same fundamental economic foundations. Establishing multiple scenarios 
allows for measurement of the delta between metrics at future points to properly 
understand the envelope within which risk and opportunity may occur.
Hess’ approach to scenario planning is aligned with the TCFD recommendations. 
We have prepared internal guidance that details our approach and establishes 
a specified methodology. This also serves as a roadmap for our external 
verifier to review and verify that we followed our specified methodology when 
conducting this scenario analysis.
Our first step in this process was to establish a Hess base case, which for 
2022 was premised off a $65 per barrel Brent oil price through 2050 and a 
$3.50 per million British thermal units Henry Hub natural gas price through 
2050; both cost bases are in 2022 real terms. In addition, in the base case, 
we applied either actual carbon pricing for our assets and intended forward 
investments (where a regulatory framework for such exists) or used a 
carbon price of $40 per tonne through 2050 for other geographies. 
Hess’ base case was then compared against the various oil, natural gas 
and carbon prices in the IEA’s four key scenarios – STEPS, APS, SDS and 
The IEA 2021 World Energy Outlook ’s Four Key Scenarios
• The Stated Policies Scenario (STEPS) takes into account implementing 
measures affecting energy markets that have already been adopted, 
chiefly the Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) – the emissions 
reductions agreed to by individual countries under the Paris Agreement. 
Essentially, the STEPS shows how the energy system might progress 
without additional steer from policymakers. The International Energy 
Agency (IEA) estimates that implementing the STEPS will result in an 
increase in global average temperatures of 2.6°C in 2100 compared with 
preindustrial levels.
• The Announced Pledges Scenario (APS) assumes all climate commitments 
made by governments worldwide will be met in full and on time including 
NDCs and net zero targets. The IEA estimates that implementing the APS 
will result in an increase in global average temperatures of 2.1°C in 
2100 compared with preindustrial levels.• The Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS) reflects a pathway to achieving 
key energy related components of the United Nations Sustainable Development 
Agenda – including universal access to modern energy by 2030, urgent action 
to tackle climate change and measures to improve poor air quality. The SDS 
represents a gateway to achieve the aim of the Paris Agreement, with a 50% 
probability of limiting the global average temperature rise to 1.65°C in 2100 
and assumptions that advanced economies achieve net zero emissions by 
2050, China by 2060 and all other countries by 2070 at the latest. If negative 
emissions technologies were to be deployed after 2070, the temperature rise in 
2100 could be limited to 1.5°C with a 50% probability.
• The Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Scenario reflects a narrow pathway for the 
global energy sector to achieve net zero carbon dioxide emissions by 2050, 
consistent with limiting the global average temperature rise to 1.5°C in 2100 
with a 50% probability.47 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | Climate Change and Energy
■  Hess Base Case ■  IEA SDS ■  IEA STEPS ■  IEA APS ■  IEA NZE020406080100
2050 2047 2042 2037 2032 2027 2022U.S. Dollars per BarrelCrude Oil Price 
04080120160200240280
2050 2047 2042 2037 2032 2027 2022
■U.S. Dollars per Tonne
■■  Hess Base Case
■  IEA SDS■  IEA APS ■  IEA STEPS
■  IEA NZECO2 Price, Advanced Economies
0246
2050 2047 2042 2037 2032 2027 2022U.S. Dollars per MMBtu
■■  Hess Base Case
■  IEA SDS■  IEA APS ■  IEA STEPS
■  IEA NZENatural Gas PriceNZE – running our current asset portfolio and intended forward investments 
through these varying sets of assumptions to assess financial robustness. 
The charts below show the oil and natural gas prices, as well as CO2 prices 
in advanced economies, under the IEA’s STEPS, APS, SDS and NZE against 
Hess’ base case. Please note that the IEA’s oil, natural gas and CO2 prices 
have been adjusted to 2022 real terms to be comparable to Hess’ base 
case price assumptions. As these charts show, there is a wide spread 
of oil, natural gas and carbon pricing across the four IEA scenarios, a key 
component of informed scenario planning.Results of the Hess Scenario Planning Exercise
Through our methodology, we have tested the robustness of Hess’ asset 
portfolio and intended forward investments under multiple energy supply 
and demand scenarios, including the IEA’s STEPS, APS, SDS and NZE. 
In discussing potential financial implications, the TCFD does not ask 
organizations to provide a financial forecast (for which scenario analysis is not 
appropriate). Organizations are asked to provide an indication of direction or 
ranges of potential financial implications. While we do not publish quantitative 
financial results due to their confidential nature, we are providing a range of 
potential financial implications from the various IEA scenarios, as detailed below.
Conclusions from Hess’ Scenario Analysis Based on the 2021 WEO
STEPS, APS and SDS
•  The Hess portfolio remains resilient in all of these scenarios, with production from our current reserve base remaining economic over the next 30 years.
•  Our portfolio, adjusted for assumptions in these scenarios, continues to generate sufficient cash flow to deliver our development plan.
•  There are no stranded assets and no expected changes to the Hess base plan under any of these scenarios.
NZE
•  The majority of Hess’ current reserve base is producible under the NZE over the next 30 years, with lower operating cash flow relative to the Hess base  
plan driven by lower commodity prices and the cost of CO2.
•  The NZE reflects low oil prices and shows a very narrow pathway to achievement, including an assumption that 50% of emissions reductions come  
from technologies that are currently in the demonstration or prototype phase. 
•  As part of our annual scenario planning exercise, we will continue to monitor for indications that the world is moving along the NZE pathway; we expect  
that these indications would provide Hess sufficient time to complete a detailed review of our cost structure and adjust our portfolio accordingly.
Direction or Ranges of Potential Financial Implications Relative to the Hess Base Case Development Plan 
• Higher operating cash margins in the STEPS and APS 
• Comparable operating cash margins under the SDS
• Lower cash margins under the NZE 
•  If we see indications that the world is moving along the NZE pathway, we would expect to optimize our development plan and overall business strategy  
to maximize cash marginsOil, Natural Gas and CO2 Prices (2022 Real Terms) in the IEA Scenarios and Hess Base CaseCarbon Asset Risk Assessment, continued
48 | 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORTClimate Change and Energy
05001,0001,5002,0002,500
$40/BBL
~27$50/BBL
~53$60/BBL
~70$70/BBL
~73$80/BBL
~77
* Point for ward/nobreakspaceJanuar y 2022, l ocation s gene rating highe r than 1 5% a fter tax return.
 Assume s approximatel y 30 wells  per rig-yea r. Operatin g cost assumption s includ e Hess 
 net tariffs and ﬁ eld gener al and a dminis trative c osts.8001,6002,1002,20 0 2,30 0Gross Number of Economic Locations at Various WTI Prices*
WTI:
Rig-Y ears:*Hess Future Bakken Locations with Internal 
Rate of Return of 15% or Higher, as of January 2022Validation of Hess Strategy
If the lower oil demand assumed in the IEA’s NZE comes to fruition, industry 
competition will intensify and higher cost producers may be forced out 
of the marketplace. Hess’ strategic priorities, which uniquely position us 
to deliver long term value, are to deliver (1) high return resource growth, 
(2) a low cost of supply and (3) industry leading cash flow growth. This 
strategy is consistent with the IEA’s less than 2°C scenarios, which envision a 
meaningful role for oil and natural gas through 2050.
Hess plans to allocate the majority of our capital expenditures to developing 
the company’s assets offshore Guyana and in the Bakken shale play in North 
Dakota. Our offshore oil discoveries in Guyana are among the industry’s largest 
discoveries made globally over the last decade, with more than 11 billion barrels 
of oil equivalent recoverable reserves. Our four sanctioned developments – Liza 
Phase 1, Liza Phase 2, Payara and Yellowtail – have a breakeven Brent oil 
price of between $25 and $35 per barrel. According to a study by Wood 
Mackenzie (as illustrated below), Guyana is one of the highest margin, lowest 
carbon intensity oil developments globally.
In the Bakken, Hess has approximately 800 and 1,600 locations at $40 per 
barrel and $50 per barrel West Texas Intermediate (WTI), respectively, that 
can generate at least a 15% internal rate of return. That equates to greater 
than 27 to 53 rig years for the company, assuming one rig drills 30 wells per 
year, as illustrated at right.
We expect that Guyana’s low breakeven costs, along with aggressive cost 
reduction activities in the Bakken, will contribute substantially to structurally lowering our portfolio breakeven costs to less than $45 per barrel Brent oil 
by 2026. Notably, this is lower than the oil price assumption through 2030 
in the STEPS, APS and SDS. As a result, Hess is well positioned to retain 
our share in the marketplace as a low cost producer, even with the gradually 
reducing global oil demand projected under the IEA’s various scenarios.
In summary, based on the results of our 2022 scenario planning analysis, 
we conclude that we can produce our current reserve base and deliver 
strong performance under the STEPS, APS and SDS and produce the 
majority of our current reserve base under the NZE.
Operating Cash Margins and Carbon Intensity of Global Upstream Assets
Note: Source of data is Wood Mackenzie Lens. In the chart at left, data shows relative positioning in 2025, and operating cash margin is deﬁned as post tax cash ﬂow with capital expenditures added back ,
divided by production. The chart at right shows global upstream assets with the 15 highest BOE growth projections to 2025. GuyanaCanada Oil Sands
Qatar
Mozambique
Iran
RussiaAzerbaijan
ArgentinaKazakhstan
ChadIraq
BrazilU.S. Permian
Saudi Arabia NorwayUnited Arab EmiratesU.S. Deepwater Gulf of MexicoCarbon Intensity (CO2e per Thousand BOE)
Operating Cash Margin (U.S. Dollars per BOE)Low Cost, Low Carbon Development in Guyana
U.S. Deepwater Gulf of MexicoSaudi ArabiaCanadaIranArgentinaChadU.S. PermianAzerbaijanUnited Arab EmiratesRussiaKazakhstanBrazilIraqMozambiqueGuyanaProduction Compound Annual Growth Rate 
for Global Upstream Assets, 2021–202549 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | Climate Change and Energy
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017Million Tonnes CO2e
GHG Intensity (kg CO2e per BOE)
0.00.51.01.52.02.53.03.54.0
0510152025303540
2.7343.63.8
3.1
2.33430
21
18
■  Scope 1 & 2 GHG Emissions 
   GHG Intensity (kg CO2e per BOE)
 2025 GHG Intensity Target 
 (17 kg CO2e per BOE)
Note: Denmark emissions are excluded from this chart because 
they are excluded from our 2025 target.Operated GHG Emissions  
(Scopes 1 and 2), Market Based METRICS AND TARGETS
Following the TCFD’s latest 
recommendations, our Low Carbon 
Transition Framework includes short, 
medium and long term climate related 
emissions reduction targets.
Short Term Climate Related 
Emissions Reduction Targets  
(2021 —2024)
Hess considers our short term strategy 
(0–3 years) as primarily addressing 
near term business decisions required 
for operational budgetary and planning 
purposes. Our short term climate related 
targets are as follows: 
• Achieve a 7% flaring rate from wells and 
pads, as reported to the North Dakota 
Industrial Commission (NDIC), in 2021 
• Reduce routine flaring intensity to 5% in 
our Bakken, North Dakota, production 
operations in 2022
Flare reduction is a primary driver for 
achieving our medium and longer term 
climate objectives, including our 2025 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
intensity target and commitment to zero 
routine flaring by the end of 2025 through 
the World Bank’s ZRF. We use short term 
targets as a stepwise approach to meeting 
these objectives.
In 2021, we set an AIP compensation 
target to achieve a 7% flaring rate from 
Bakken wells and pads, as reported 
to the NDIC. This target was more 
aggressive than the 9% flaring rate 
required by the NDIC at the time. At year 
end 2021, the actual flaring rate from 
wells and pads in North Dakota was 
approximately 4%, well below our  
7% target and the 9% NDIC limit.
We aim to build on this progress in 2022 
while better aligning our flaring reduction 
metric with our commitment to the World 
Bank ZRF definitions and reporting 
nomenclature, which vary slightly from 
those of the NDIC. We have therefore set a 
new short term AIP target to reduce routine 
flaring in our Bakken operations to 5% by 
the end of 2022.We also purchase renewable energy 
certificates (RECs) to mitigate 100% 
of our Scope 2 purchased electricity 
requirements for the assets that we operate.
Medium Term Climate Related 
Emissions Reduction Targets  
(2025 —2031)
Our medium term strategy (4–10 years) 
primarily addresses project level changes 
at our various assets. In this time frame, 
our strategy and targets are focused 
on addressing Scope 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions, flaring and methane as well 
as purchasing renewable energy and/or 
offsets to address Scope 2 emissions.
GHG Emissions
We have established a GHG intensity 
reduction target for the end of 2025, 
which we consider to be medium 
term. Our target is to reduce the GHG 
emissions intensity of our operated 
assets to 17 kilograms (kg) of carbon 
dioxide equivalent (CO2e) per barrels of oil 
equivalent (BOE) by 2025 versus a 2017 
baseline of 34 kg CO2e per BOE.
This GHG reduction target utilizes a market 
based approach to GHG accounting, 
which allows the use of market based 
instruments such as RECs to mitigate 
the environmental impact of Scope 2 
GHG emissions. Our location based 
GHG emissions can be found in the 
Performance Data table on page 67. Through 2021, we have reduced our GHG 
emissions intensity to 18 kg CO2e per BOE 
or by approximately 47% compared with 
our 2017 baseline of 34 kg CO2e per BOE 
as shown on the chart above.
We aligned this GHG intensity reduction 
target with the IEA’s 2021 World Energy 
Outlook  SDS and Net Zero Emissions by 
2050 Scenario (NZE), as illustrated in the 
chart below. The 21% carbon intensity 
reduction between 2017 and 2030 in the 
SDS is consistent with a well below 2°C 
ambition, whereas the NZE suggests a 
36% reduction during that time frame 
-60-50-40-30-20-10010
2030 2029 2028 2027 2026 2025 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
■  IEA STEPS ■  IEA SDS ■  Hess GHG Emissions Intensity  
■  IEA APS ■  IEA NZE  Hess 2025 GHG Emissions Intensity TargetHess 2025 GHG Emissions Intensity Target-47%-10%
-14%
-21%
-36%% Emissions Intensity ReductionHess Operated GHG Emissions Intensity (Scopes 1 and 2)  
Compared with IEA Scenario Intensity Reductions50 | 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORTClimate Change and Energy
would be needed to achieve a 1.5°C 
ambition. These IEA carbon intensity 
reduction figures are derived using the 
IEA’s SDS and NZE CO2 emissions divided 
by their worldwide energy supply estimate 
in 2030 versus 2017 actuals. Hess’ GHG 
intensity reduction target is based on our 
operated Scope 1 and 2 market based 
GHG emissions normalized by production. 
The Hess target results in a 50% GHG 
intensity reduction between 2017 and 
2025, which is more aggressive than the 
IEA SDS’ 21% and NZE’s 36% emissions 
intensity reductions by 2030. This target is 
also designed to place us in a leadership 
position for emissions performance among 
our peers in the oil and gas industry, 
based on current publicly available data. 
Flaring
Hess has recently endorsed the World 
Bank’s Global Gas Flaring Reduction 
Partnership (GGFR) ZRF. GGFR advocates 
for ending routine gas flaring by garnering 
commitments from oil and gas companies 
to end routine flaring by 2030. GGFR 
defines routine flaring as “flaring that 
occurs during the normal production of oil, and in the absence of sufficient facilities 
to utilize the gas onsite, dispatch it to a 
market or reinject it.” The initiative does 
not address nonroutine flaring events, 
which include initial well flowback, process 
upsets, equipment or natural gas handling 
infrastructure and malfunctions. Hess 
has set a medium term target to eliminate 
routine gas flaring at all of our operated 
production sites by the end of 2025, five 
years ahead of the ZRF commitment date.
To support the achievement of this 
objective, and in partnership with Hess 
Midstream, we continue to focus on 
the buildout of gas infrastructure in the 
Bakken and consider additional flare 
reduction initiatives globally. (See page 54 
for further detail on these initiatives.)
Methane 
While natural gas continues to play a 
critical role in the transition to a low carbon 
economy, there remains debate about 
fugitive methane leakage along the natural 
gas value chain and whether that may 
have the potential to reduce this fuel’s 
climate benefits. Hess supports the Global 
Methane Pledge to reduce methane 
emissions by 30% below 2020 levels by 
2030, which was announced by the U.S. 
and European Union at the 26th United 
Nations Climate Change Conference of the 
Parties (COP26) in Glasgow, Scotland.
Hess also supports the enactment of cost 
effective direct methane regulations that 
would preserve a state’s ability to adapt 
implementation to local conditions. In late 
2021, the U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency (EPA) proposed a rule to expand 
and strengthen methane reduction 
requirements. We are in the process of 
reviewing the EPA’s proposed regulation 
and welcome continued engagement 
with the agency to help develop a final 
rule that encourages significant methane 
emissions reductions while also providing 
producers with the flexibility needed to 
continue supplying reliable and affordable 
energy to consumers. 02,0004,0006,0008,00010,00012,00014,000
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017Methane Emissions (Tonnes)
Methane Emissions per Sales of Natural Gas (%)
■  Methane Emissions (Tonnes) 
   Methane Emissions Intensity (%)
 2025 Methane Intensity Target (0.19%)9,111
0.0%0.5%0.10%0.15%0.20%0.25%0.30%0.35%0.40%0.45%
0.32%0.31%
0.23%0.18%11,88113,082
10,586
8,2780.40%
Note: Denmark emissions are excluded from this chart because 
they are excluded from our 2025 target.Operated Methane Emissions  
(Scopes 1 and 2) We are a founding member of the ONE 
Future Coalition, a group of companies 
from the natural gas industry focused 
on reducing methane emissions across 
the value chain. We are also founding 
participants in The Environmental 
Partnership (The Partnership), which aims 
to progress actions to reduce air emissions 
associated with natural gas and oil 
production. Our voluntary commitments to 
pursue emissions reductions through these 
groups are described further on pages 55–56.
Consistent with these efforts, Hess set a 
medium term target to reduce operated 
methane emissions intensity to 0.19% 
by 2025, which equates to an over 50% 
reduction in methane emissions intensity 
versus our 2017 baseline. As of year end 
2021, we have achieved a methane intensity 
rate of 0.18%, as shown at left, surpassing 
our 2025 target. We attribute this result to 
a combination of our continued efforts to 
reduce methane emissions, which include 
increasing natural gas capture, reducing 
flaring, continuing our leak detection and 
repair (LDAR) program, and replacing 
and retrofitting the remaining high bleed 
pneumatic controllers in our North Dakota 
operations. An additional factor is the 
updating of our calculation methodology, 
so that we remain in line with industry 
standards. While we aim to maintain this 
performance in support of our year end 
2025 target, we are in the process of 
reevaluating the target to determine if it 
should be adjusted.
Renewable Energy
A component of both our short and 
medium term strategy is to purchase 
renewable energy and/or carbon offsets 
to mitigate 100% of our Scope 2 GHG 
emissions. We are currently implementing this 
strategy by purchasing RECs. However, 
we are also exploring various options for 
securing renewable and/or carbon neutral 
energy in the future.51 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | Climate Change and Energy
Long Term Climate Related 
Emissions Reduction Targets (2032+)
We believe considerations for our long term 
strategy (10+ years) are primarily related to 
changes in energy supply and demand and 
related policies as well as the emergence 
of new technologies that could alter the 
composition of Hess’ overall portfolio.
In late 2020, we established an 
executive led task force to develop 
a net zero Scope 1 and 2 emissions 
plan. We expect that our short and 
medium term commitments, including 
reducing GHG and methane emissions 
intensity, eliminating routine flaring and 
purchasing renewable energy, will help 
us mitigate a significant portion of our 
current Scope 1 and 2 emissions profile. 
While we believe that the shorter term 
strategic actions we are implementing 
will continue to be viable beyond a 10 
year time frame, we are also examining 
additional opportunities to address our 
GHG emissions in the long term. These 
include increased energy efficiency from 
electrification of our operations and 
deployment of advanced technologies 
that are not currently commercially viable 
or are still in development, in combination 
with the purchase of high quality carbon 
offsets to address the residual Scope 
1 and 2 emissions that are difficult to 
mitigate with direct reductions. We are in 
the early stages of refining this long term 
plan and will continue to provide updates 
on its progress.
With regard to Scope 3, we are committed 
to transparency on our emissions and 
have reported our estimated Scope 3 
carbon footprint for many years. We believe 
Scope 3 is a societal issue and needs 
to be addressed in a different manner 
from our own Scope 1 and Scope 2 
footprint. Hess supports a carbon price 
to encourage the investments needed 
to accelerate decarbonization across all 
sectors of the economy while keeping 
energy affordable. We believe that a market 
based mechanism will drive innovation for new technologies and lead to a more 
efficient end use of hydrocarbon products. 
A policy that puts a price on carbon should 
ensure uniform cost of GHG emissions on a 
CO2e basis throughout the global economy 
and should address key pricing risks, such 
as carbon leakage, energy affordability and 
policy durability, and equity issues such 
as regressive impacts on underdeveloped 
communities. In addition, we are focusing 
on scientific solutions and innovative 
research with the potential to address GHG 
emissions on a global scale. Our support 
of groundbreaking research on plant based 
carbon capture and storage by the Salk 
Institute is described in more detail on page 53.
GHG PERFORMANCE 
We report GHG emissions from our oil and 
gas assets on both operated and equity 
bases. Additionally, while our short and 
medium term GHG emissions reduction 
targets utilize a market based approach to 
GHG accounting, we report these operated 
GHG emissions on both a location and 
market basis. 
Our GHG emissions estimates include 
CO2, methane and nitrous oxide, which are 
reported in units of CO2e. In 2014, Hess 
began using global warming potentials 
based on the values in the Fourth 
Assessment Report: Climate Change 2007 , 
prepared by the Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate Change, to estimate CO2e totals.
Approximately 93% of Hess’ direct reported 
(Scope 1) operated GHG emissions are from 
stationary combustion sources such as flares, 
heaters, turbines and engines. The factors 
used to estimate emissions for these sources 
enterprisewide are those prescribed by the 
EPA in its GHG Mandatory Reporting Rule (40 
CFR Part 98, Subpart C). The remaining 7% 
of our reported operated GHG emissions are 
from a variety of noncombustion and fugitive 
emissions sources, such as storage tanks, 
compressor seals, pneumatic pumps and 
valves. For such sources at onshore facilities, 
we use the emissions factors prescribed by 
the EPA in its GHG Mandatory Reporting 
Rule (40 CFR Part 98, Subpart W). Hess uses other appropriate regulatory or 
industry specific factors to estimate fugitive 
emissions for all other facilities.
We also report indirect emissions 
associated with purchased electricity 
(Scope 2) and other indirect (Scope 3) 
emissions.
See additional reporting indicators in our 
response to the American Petroleum Institute 
Template for GHG Reporting at hess.com/
sustainability/climate-change-energy
Baseline Review and Restatements
We continuously look for opportunities to 
improve our GHG data collection efforts 
and calculation methodologies, and have 
made a number of restatements in the 
performance data within this report, as 
follows: 
• Through analysis of our historical 
GHG emissions inventories, we have 
identified certain emissions sources 
previously designated as not material to 
our overall emissions profile, including 
emissions from our North Dakota truck 
fleet and office electricity use, which 
have now been incorporated into our 
annual inventories for 2017–2020. We 
have also been working to fine-tune 
the activity data used for our emissions 
calculations, such as applying adjusted 
run times for the heater treaters used at 
our operated wellsites.
• We have made some enhancements to 
our Scope 3 emissions calculations as 
described on page 53.
After establishing our new five year GHG 
reduction target with a 2017 baseline, 
we engaged our third party sustainability 
data verifier to conduct an additional 
verification of our 2017 GHG inventory at 
the reasonable assurance level. Based on 
this exercise, we were able to validate our 
2017 GHG inventory.
Another important data consideration 
is related to the sale of our interests in 
Denmark in August 2021. As the sale 
was announced in early 2021, we excluded 
Denmark when establishing the 2017 52
| 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORTClimate Change and Energybaseline year data for our new GHG and 
methane emissions intensity targets (that 
were also announced last year). However, 
because Hess operated the asset through 
August 2021, we have included Denmark 
in our 2021 absolute GHG emissions data 
discussed in the following subsections.
Operated Emissions  
(Scopes 1 and 2)
In 2021, of the estimated 2.9 million tonnes 
of gross GHG emissions reported from 
our operated oil and gas assets, 2.5 
million tonnes were Scope 1 emissions, 
primarily from flaring and fuel combustion, 
and approximately 0.4 million tonnes 
were Scope 2 emissions from purchased 
electricity. Process operations (primarily 
fuel combustion) and flaring each 
accounted for approximately 40% of our 
combined Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions.
In 2021, our absolute GHG emissions 
decreased by 0.7 million tonnes 
compared with 2020, due primarily to 
a significant reduction in natural gas 
flaring in North Dakota associated 
with aggressive expansion of Hess 
Midstream’s natural gas gathering, 
compression and processing 
infrastructure. On a market basis, our 
cumulative GHG emissions intensity 
through 2021 (i.e., tonnes of emissions 
per thousand BOE) decreased by 47% 
compared with our 2017 baseline.
Equity Emissions  
(Scopes 1, 2 and 3) 
Since 2007, Hess has tracked GHG 
emissions from our operated and 
nonoperated oil and gas assets based 
on our equity interest. The graphs on 
pages 52–53 detail our Scope 1, 2 and 3 
emissions from 2017 to 2021 on an equity 
basis. These graphs show that over the 
past five years, our absolute Scope 1 and 
2 equity emissions have decreased by 0.2 
million tonnes to approximately 3.8 million 
tonnes of CO2e. During the same period, estimated Scope 3 equity emissions 
decreased by 0.3 million tonnes to 
approximately 43 million tonnes of CO2e.
Scope 1 and 2 Equity Emissions
Our major source of Scope 1 and 2 
emissions from nonoperated oil and gas 
assets in 2021 was from the A-18 Block in 
the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development 
Area. Our equity emissions from this asset 
were approximately 1.2 million tonnes, an 
increase of 0.1 million tonnes from 2020.
Major sources of emissions from our 
operated assets in 2021 included those 
from Hess Midstream’s Tioga Gas Plant 
(TGP) and our North Dakota, North 
Malay Basin and offshore Gulf of Mexico 
production assets, which together 
accounted for an estimated 1.8 million 
tonnes of equity emissions.
Our other operated and nonoperated 
assets made up the balance of equity 
emissions at an estimated 0.9 million 
tonnes, of which Guyana accounted for 
approximately 0.4 million tonnes and our 
other assets accounted for a combined 
0.5 million tonnes.
Scope 3 Equity Emissions
Scope 3 GHG emissions are those 
generated from corporate value chain 
activities that are not accounted for and 
reported in our Scope 1 and Scope 2 
emissions. We disclose our estimated 
Scope 3 GHG emissions, the vast majority 
of which are assumed – based on the 
methodology described below – to come 
from the processing and end use of our 
sold products, on an equity basis.
To estimate our Scope 3 emissions, 
we follow the methodology established 
by IPIECA in its 2016 report Estimating 
Petroleum Industry Value Chain (Scope 3) 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions.  This guidance, 
which is currently the industry standard, is 
based on the WRI’s and World Business 
Council for Sustainable Development’s 2.9 Million Tonnes CO2e 
■  Flaring  
■  Natural Gas Combustion  
■  Purchased Electricity (Scope 2) 
■  Fugitives  
■  Liquid Fuel Combustion  
 40%
35%6%
14%5%
Note: The ﬂaring total above includes 184 tonnes of CO 2e 
emissions from venting.2021 Operated GHG Emissions  
(Scopes 1 and 2) by Source
012345
2021 2020 2019 2018 20174.1
3.84.3
3.6
2.9Million Tonnes CO2e
■  U.S.
■  Denmark*■■  Divested Assets
■  Malaysia
*Divested in August 2021.Operated GHG Emissions  
(Scopes 1 and 2) by Country
012345
2021 2020 2019 2018 20174.03.84.3 4.3
3.8Million Tonnes CO2e
■  Denmark*
■■  Divested Assets
■  Guyana
■  Libya■  Malaysia
■  Malaysia/Thailand
■  U.S.
*Divested in August 2021.Equity GHG Emissions  
(Scopes 1 and 2) by Country53
2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | Climate Change and EnergyScope 3 guidance. Per the IPIECA 
guidance, we report Scope 3 emissions 
for category 11 “Use of Sold Products” by 
calculating combustion emissions for our 
oil, natural gas and marketed oil products. 
We also report Scope 3 category 10 
“Processing of Sold Products” emissions, 
which result from the refining of our crude 
oil production by others. 
In 2021, we enhanced the accuracy of 
our Scope 3 emissions calculations. For 
category 11, we previously assumed 
all liquids sold were crude oil. We now 
account for our two separate liquid 
products – crude oil and natural gas 
liquids (NGLs) – by using separate 
emissions factors for each product. For 
category 10, where we previously applied 
a single GHG factor over time, we now 
use annual factors that take into account 
the improved efficiency and related 
emissions reductions at U.S. refineries 
between 2017 and 2021. This improved 
methodology has resulted in Hess’ Scope 
3 emissions totals being lowered by 
approximately 4 million tonnes of CO2e 
each year between 2017 and 2020.
In 2021, we sold 591 million standard 
cubic feet per day (MMSCFD) of natural 
gas, which, when used by consumers, 
accounted for an estimated 11.7 million tonnes of GHG emissions. We sold  
163 thousand barrels per day of crude oil 
and 53 thousand barrels per day of NGLs, 
which accounted for another estimated 
25.8 million and 4.4 million tonnes, 
respectively, of GHG emissions, for an 
estimated total of 42 million tonnes of 
Scope 3 category 11 emissions. This crude 
oil, when processed by refiners, resulted in 
an additional estimated 1.4 million tonnes 
of Scope 3 category 10 emissions, which 
brings our total Scope 3 emissions to an 
estimated 43.4 million tonnes. 
Although not material, we also track, 
report and offset 100% of the Scope 3  
emissions associated with employee 
business travel. We offset the approximate 
400 tonnes of CO 2e emissions associated 
with our employees’ business travel in 
2021 with carbon credits related to a 
third party landfill gas to energy project in 
Whitfield County, Georgia, U.S.
EMISSIONS REDUCTION 
INITIATIVES 
In support of our GHG emissions and 
flaring intensity reduction targets, we 
track and monitor air emissions at each 
of our assets and undertake a variety of 
emissions reduction initiatives. Our efforts 
focus on our largest emitting operations, 
on opportunities that are technically and Contribution to the Salk Institute’s Development of Plant Based Carbon Capture and Storage
As an additional measure beyond our emissions reduction efforts, which are 
currently focused on our operated Scope 1 and 2 emissions, we are pursuing 
ways to help mitigate climate change on a global scale. Hess has made a 
multiyear financial commitment to help fund the Salk Institute’s Harnessing 
Plants Initiative’s research, which is comprised of two programs: CO 2 Removal 
on a Planetary Scale (CRoPS) and Coastal Plant Restoration (CPR). 
The CRoPS program aims to increase suberin content – a carbon rich polymer 
found in plant roots – in common crops such as wheat, rice and corn with the 
goal to absorb and store significant amounts of carbon from the atmosphere. 
In addition to removing CO 2, the enhanced root systems would help protect 
plants from droughts and other climate related threats, enrich soil with added carbon and potentially produce better yields. CRoPS may also allow farmers to sell 
carbon credits and provide an added income source in an emerging marketplace. 
The CPR project is focused on restoration and preservation of wetlands, 
which are significant carbon sinks. The project aims to develop wetland plants 
that can hold carbon, purify water, preserve land and thrive in challenging 
environments around the world. 
Salk aims to collaborate with governments and the agriculture industry to bring 
development of these specialized plants to a global scale by 2030, with the 
capability of absorbing and storing significant amounts of carbon per year from 
the atmosphere by 2035.
05101520253035404550
2021 2020 2019 2018 201744
394446
43Million Tonnes CO2e
Note: Our 2021 equity Scope 3 emissions were comprised 
of 42 million tonnes of CO 2e from use of sold products, and 
1 million tonnes from processing of sold products.  Scope 3 Equity GHG Emissions
economically feasible and on where we 
are able to achieve stakeholder approval.
As discussed earlier, we established 
an executive led task force in 2020 to 
provide oversight for our climate change 
strategy implementation and to evaluate 
the medium and longer term aspects of 
our strategy. A subgroup of this task force is 
working to identify and recommend GHG 
reduction opportunities, evaluating and 
implementing technologies as appropriate 54
| 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORTClimate Change and Energyand evaluating capital and infrastructure 
requirements. Currently, the group is 
evaluating, piloting or implementing 
the following emissions reduction 
opportunities: 
• Optimizing Hess Midstream’s gas 
gathering infrastructure in the Bakken, 
which includes additional compression 
capacity and gathering lines 
• Installing oil coolers to stabilize oil and 
reduce tank gas flashing to flare
• Reinjecting NGLs into the product line 
at compressor stations
• Replacing gas assisted flares with more 
efficient air assist flares
• Diverting compressor station blowdown 
from flares to the station inlet
• Optimizing piping heat trace design to 
lower power consumption
• Using grid electricity, which we mitigate 
through the purchase of RECs, to power 
onshore drilling and completions activity
• Examining alternatives to wellhead 
flaring, such as utilizing natural gas for 
onsite power generation or conversion  
to liquified natural gas
• Examining power purchasing options to 
supply Hess’ electricity needs through 
renewable or carbon neutral energy, 
thereby offsetting or eliminating our 
Scope 2 GHG emissions
• Implementing offshore LDAR programs
• Using advanced data analytics and 
machine learning to optimize fuel  
gas consumption
• Optimizing diesel fuel use at offshore 
production facilities, drilling rigs and 
marine vessels
Flaring
In 2021, flaring from Hess operated assets 
totaled 33 MMSCFD, a decrease of 19 
MMSCFD or 37% compared with 2020, 
primarily related to our focus on natural 
gas capture through increased availability 
and reliability at our compressor stations; 
expansion of gathering and processing infrastructure; enhanced communication 
with third party gatherers; and improved 
planning of new wells to prioritize 
gathering of new natural gas production. 
We are taking multiple steps, which are 
described on the following pages, to 
eliminate routine flaring by the end of 
2025.
More than $3.6 billion has been spent on 
midstream infrastructure in North Dakota 
over the past 10 years, supporting our 
strong performance over the past several 
years. Hess Midstream is continuing to 
execute capital projects to increase natural 
gas capture rates, which provide economic 
returns through the sale of the additional 
natural gas and NGLs captured and 
reduce flaring in the Bakken region.
In the summer of 2021 Hess Midstream 
conducted a successful and safe 
turnaround of the TGP. The maintenance 
activities completed during the 
turnaround will help to maintain a safe 
and reliable plant. The turnaround, along 
with an expansion project that was 
completed in 2020, increased processing 
capacity from 250 to 400 MMSCFD. 
During the turnaround, as expected, we 
lost the capacity to gather and process 
natural gas at the TGP. However, with 
careful planning prior to the turnaround –  
entering into natural gas offload 
agreements and executing pipeline 
interconnects that allowed Hess to sell 
natural gas that would otherwise have 
been flared – we successfully reduced 
gas flaring during the turnaround by 70% 
compared with the amount anticipated. 
Ultimately, the increased capacity gained 
from the expansion project is expected to 
help us reduce flaring in future years. 
These improvements in capacity at the 
TGP are complemented by the Little 
Missouri 4 gas plant, operated by Targa 
Resources, which came online in 2019 
and can process 200 MMSCFD of natural 
gas. Hess Midstream owns 50% interest 
in the Little Missouri 4 gas plant.We also installed an additional 14 
MMSCFD of capacity at the new Blue 
Buttes Compressor Station in the second 
quarter of 2021, which has further 
expanded our ability to bring more natural 
gas to market. We plan to continue to 
add a further 85 MMSCFD of natural gas 
compression and gathering capacity in 
2022, with the capability to expand up 
to 130 MMSCFD in the future. These 
improvements will help us continue to 
reduce flaring.
In addition to infrastructure buildout,  
we have continued to improve 
compressor station reliability in 2021.  
We have reduced compressor trips and 
routine downtime issues and as a result we 
have reduced our flaring by 1.8 MMSCFD, 
which equates to approximately  
56,000 tonnes of CO2e per year.
In some cases, Hess relies on third parties 
to provide the natural gas gathering and 
processing infrastructure needed to 
mitigate gas flaring. In 2021, we were able 
to reduce our reliance on these third parties 
due to the additional infrastructure Hess 
Midstream brought online during the year. 
We have also enhanced our relationships 
and lines of communication with third 01020304050607080
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017Flaring (MMSCFD)
Flaring Intensity (SCF per BOE)
■  Hess 2021 Portfolio 
■■   Divested Assets
 Flaring Intensity (Hess 2021 Portfolio)
Note: Hess 2021 portfolio includes Denmark. Divested a ssets 
includes assets divested prior to 2021 .050100150200250
194
114
86215
61.3
20155.270.9
52.0
32.7Operated Flaring55
2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | Climate Change and Energyparties to further reduce downtime and 
bottlenecks. We estimate that these 
enhancements helped to generate a  
2 MMSCFD reduction in flaring, equivalent 
to a reduction of approximately 63,000 
tonnes of CO2e during the year. We are 
continuing to explore additional commercial 
arrangements to improve third party gas 
gathering and processing capacity and 
performance, supporting reduced flaring.
Methane
Reducing methane emissions, which 
represent around 8% of our operated 
Scope 1 GHG emissions, continues to 
be an important priority for Hess. Our 
major sources of methane, based on our 
regulatory emissions inventory estimates, 
are fugitive emissions from pneumatic 
devices, pumps, tanks, compressor seals 
and pipelines, and the residual unburned 
methane associated with flaring.
In 2021, our total Scope 1 methane 
emissions were around 8,395 tonnes, which 
equates to approximately 210,000 tonnes of 
CO2e (assuming a Global Warming Potential 
of 25). This represents a 22% reduction from 
2020 and a 33% reduction from 2017. 
In support of our medium term climate 
related strategy, we established a 2025 
global methane intensity target of 0.19% 
versus a 2017 baseline of 0.40%, using 
natural gas sales as a denominator. Our 
2021 intensity based on this methodology 
was 0.18%, surpassing our 2025 target 
(see pages 8 and 50).
ONE Future
We continue to pursue voluntary 
reductions in methane emissions in two 
areas: performance based targets and 
best practices. In support of this strategy, 
in 2014, Hess and seven other companies 
founded the ONE Future Coalition – a 
group with representation from across 
the natural gas value chain focused on 
identifying policy and technical solutions 
that yield continuous improvement in 
the management of methane emissions 
associated with the production, gathering 
and boosting, processing, transportation 
and distribution of natural gas. By the end of 2021, ONE Future membership 
had grown to over 50 companies. ONE 
Future offers a performance based, 
flexible approach that is expected to 
yield significant reductions in methane 
emissions. ONE Future’s measurement 
protocol has been approved by the EPA.
The goal of ONE Future is to voluntarily 
lower methane emissions to less than 1% 
of gross methane production across the 
U.S. value chain by 2025. Peer reviewed 
analyses indicate that a leak/loss rate of 
1% or less across the U.S. natural gas 
value chain provides immediate GHG 
reduction benefits. To achieve this goal, 
ONE Future has established 2025 methane 
emissions rate targets for each sector of 
the natural gas value chain: production 
(0.28%), gathering and boosting (0.08%), 
processing (0.11%), transmission and 
storage (0.30%) and distribution (0.22%), 
which cumulatively total the 1% target. 
In 2020, the ONE Future members’ 
cumulative methane emissions intensity 
was 0.42% across the U.S. natural gas 
value chain. ONE Future’s 2021 progress 
report will be published later this year.
In 2021, Hess’ onshore U.S. methane 
intensity was 0.29%, which is below the 
2025 ONE Future combined target of 
0.47% for the sectors in which we operate Hess Onshore Methane Emissions Intensity,  
based on the ONE Future Protocol Methodology
0.00%0.10%0.20%0.30%0.40%0.50%0.60%0.70%0.80%
(Tonnes Methane Emitted/Tonnes Methane Produced) 
U.S. Onshore
UpstreamU.S. Onshore
ProcessingU.S. Onshore
Gas Gathering
and BoostingU.S. Onshore
Production
■  2017 ■  2018 ■  2019 ■  2020 ■  2021   ONE Future 2025 Target
(i.e., production, gathering and boosting, 
and processing). 
Our relative methane intensity continues 
to improve, and we attribute this to flaring 
reduction, the continued implementation 
of our LDAR program across all of our 
North Dakota production facilities and 
our program to phase out high bleed 
pneumatic controllers.
The Environmental Partnership
In a related voluntary effort to adopt 
and promote industry best practices, 
Hess became one of the founding 
participants of The Partnership in 
2017. The Partnership is focused on 
technologically feasible and commercially 
proven solutions that result in significant 
emissions reductions. In addition to 
specifying best practices for member 
companies over specific time frames, 
The Partnership provides a forum for 
participants to share information and 
analyze best practices and technological 
breakthroughs in order to help the 
industry improve its understanding of 
emissions reduction strategies.
A key goal of The Partnership is furthering 
action to reduce air emissions associated 
with natural gas and oil production. The 
Partnership has initiated six Environmental 56
| 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORTClimate Change and EnergyEmissions Reduction Initiatives
Natural Gas Capture
We have continued to use technology developed through our partnership with 
GTUIT – a designer, manufacturer and operator of wellsite natural gas capture 
and natural gas liquid (NGL) extraction equipment – to recover high British 
thermal unit gas from locations in North Dakota that were previously flaring  
this raw, wet natural gas. The GTUIT equipment successfully addresses some  
of the technical challenges associated with capturing NGLs from the Bakken 
gas. The units are modular and mobile, can operate reliably unmanned and  
can adapt to the changing flow conditions at the well level.
In 2021, we operated four GTUIT mobile units with four million standard cubic 
feet per day (MMSCFD) of capacity in total, allowing us to capture 3.6 million 
gallons of NGLs. These four units were utilized on a continuous basis. As a 
result of this NGL capture, about 139 MMSCFD of gas flaring was avoided, 
and carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emissions were reduced by an estimated 
22,427 tonnes. This project provides dual economic and environmental 
benefits because it converts gas into marketable products as well as reduces  
the amount of gas flared and the associated air emissions.
Flexible Hose for Freshwater Transport
In North Dakota, we continue to utilize flexible hose to transport fresh water directly 
from water sources to our wells, instead of using truck transport. In 2021, 100% of the water we used for hydraulic fracturing in North Dakota (approximately  
15.1 million barrels) was transported using flexible hoses, eliminating 134,420 
truck deliveries and 6.72 million truck miles driven and reducing nearly 14,640 
tonnes of transportation related greenhouse gas emissions.
Utilizing Wellsite Natural Gas for Electricity
In 2021, we continued our collaboration with Digital Stream Energy (DSE) to 
take natural gas from a wellsite that would otherwise be flared to generate 
electricity. The electricity generated is used to power computer servers. The 
natural gas consumed by DSE in 2021 was 87.6 MMSCF, which equates to 
around 4,770 tonnes of CO2e emissions. The key benefit is that gas that would 
otherwise be flared is put to use. We continue to work with DSE in 2022 and  
are evaluating the application of this technology at additional sites.
Replacement of Diesel with Natural Gas 
Hess Midstream’s compressed natural gas (CNG) fuel facility near the Tioga Gas 
Plant in North Dakota has been in operation since 2016. The CNG is partially 
displacing diesel in high horsepower engines for drilling and in water heaters for well 
completion operations in the region and is capable of fueling CNG/gasoline bifuel 
light duty trucks. In 2021, the operation of this facility helped to displace 1.2 million 
gallons of diesel fuel, resulting in a reduction of approximately 3,500 tonnes of CO2e.The following case studies are additional examples of emissions reduction initiatives at Hess.Performance Programs and allows member 
companies to decide which are best suited 
for their operations. Hess was one of the 
first companies to commit to participating, 
and we have been implementing five of the 
six programs in North Dakota, as follows:
• Leak Program for Natural Gas and Oil 
Production Sources: Participants will 
implement monitoring and timely repair of 
fugitive emissions at selected sites utilizing 
detection methods and technologies 
such as EPA Method 21 or optical gas 
imaging cameras. Hess conducted 
790 semiannual surveys at 355 sites 
in 2021, less than in 2020 due to the 
sale of legacy sites. Of the 2.25 million 
devices and components surveyed, only 
0.07% were found to be leaking. The 
majority (70%) of those components with 
leaks were repaired immediately and 
the remaining 30% were repaired within 
30 days following the survey. Since our 
first year of participation in this program 
in 2019, our leak occurrence rate has 
reduced by 42%, from 0.11% to 0.07%.• Replace, Remove or Retrofit High Bleed 
Pneumatic Controllers: Participants will 
remove, replace or retrofit high bleed 
controllers with low or zero emitting 
devices within five years. Hess completed 
our phaseout of high bleed pneumatic 
controllers in our North Dakota operations 
in 2021. We replaced 60 high bleed 
controllers with low bleed controllers and 
removed seven from service. In 2021, this 
phaseout program reduced our overall 
pneumatic controller methane emissions 
by 80%, from 1,583 tonnes of methane in 
2019 to 318 tonnes.
• Compressor Program: Participants are 
committed to implementing practices 
that minimize emissions associated 
with centrifugal and reciprocating 
compressors. These include conversion 
of compressors to electric drive, 
improving vent gas capture and improving 
rod packing replacement practices.
• Pipeline Blowdowns: Participants are 
committed to implementing reduction 
practices that minimize emissions during pipeline blowdowns. We are implementing 
best practices to reduce methane 
emissions, including routing blowdown 
gas to low pressure systems or to flare.
• Flare Management Program: Participants 
are committed to implementing approved 
flare volume and emissions reduction 
practices and reporting the company’s 
flare volumes to demonstrate progress.
The sixth program, focused on manual 
liquids unloading for natural gas production 
sources, is not applicable to Hess because 
we do not currently operate any natural 
gas-only production wells.
Hess submits information on our 
implementation of the programs applicable 
to our operations to The Partnership, 
which in turn publishes an annual report. 
We also plan to report on our progress in 
implementing these applicable programs 
as part of our annual sustainability report.
The Partnership continues to assist 
members with identifying additional 
techniques with greater sophistication 57
2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | Climate Change and Energyto detect, repair and prevent leaks 
from oil and gas operations. Those 
efforts include facilitating collaboration 
with other operators and technology 
providers. For example, The Partnership 
is collaborating with several groups to 
understand their capabilities in aerial 
technologies and plans to introduce the 
technology to participating companies. 
Hess has actively participated in these 
efforts and, going forward, will promote 
the expanded use of aerial surveys to 
advance our understanding of emissions 
and contribute to the common industry 
goal of minimizing methane emissions.
Further detail on our LDAR program is 
provided in the Environment section of this 
report and at hess.com/sustainability/
environment
ENERGY USE
Reducing our energy use has the dual 
benefit of lowering costs and GHG 
emissions, and it is a central focus of 
both our environment, health, safety and 
social responsibility strategy and our Lean 
approach to managing our business. We generate and purchase energy primarily for 
power, processing, heating and cooling. 
In 2021, energy consumption from Hess 
operated assets was approximately 26.5 
million gigajoules, 1% higher than in 2020. 
Seventy percent of Hess’ energy use was 
directly generated from our operations, 
primarily at Hess Midstream’s TGP and at 
our production facilities in North Dakota, 
the North Malay Basin, Denmark and the 
Gulf of Mexico. The remaining 30% was 
indirect energy (i.e., energy used by utilities 
to provide electricity) purchased for our 
North Dakota production operations and 
Hess Midstream’s TGP.
In 2021, our U.S. operations accounted 
for more than 99% of our purchased 
electricity of approximately 870,000 
megawatt hours (MWh), a 4% increase 
from last year, primarily attributable to 
increased production in North Dakota 
and the conversion of new compressor 
stations from natural gas to electric 
compression. We support renewable 
energy through the purchase of RECs  
that offset 100% of the net electricity used 
in our operations. 05,00010,00015,00020,00025,00030,000
2021 2020 2019Thousand Gigajoules
 
   ■  Direct
■  Indirect27,17726,288 26,541Energy Use
To offset our approximately 870,000 MWh 
of purchased electricity, we purchased 
869,928 RECs, primarily from wind power 
generation.
See more detail on our purchased electricity 
use in our expanded performance data at 
hess.com/sustainability/performance-data/
key-sustainability-metrics
Production Operations, North DakotaOffshore Operations, Gulf of Mexico59 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | Environment
Safeguarding the environment is a core 
commitment for Hess and is incorporated 
into the Hess Values. We seek to 
continuously improve our performance 
across the range of potential environmental 
impacts, including water and energy use, 
air emissions, waste and spills, and doing 
so is embedded in the Hess Operational 
Management System (HOMS) that 
guides the work we do every day. We 
dedicate significant staff and resources 
to this effort to help ensure compliance 
with environmental laws and regulations, 
international standards and voluntary 
commitments. We have developed specific 
goals and key performance metrics to 
drive and track improvements in our 
environmental performance at both the 
enterprise and asset levels. Some of 
these metrics are factored into our annual 
incentive plan, helping to further advance 
our culture of environmental stewardship.
We collaborate with peers, governments 
and nongovernmental organizations 
(NGOs) to help drive environmental 
performance improvements across our 
industry. As an example, we sponsor 
and actively participate in the Bakken 
Production Optimization Program, a 
research program led by the Energy and 
Environmental Research Center (EERC) 
and funded by the North Dakota Industrial 
Commission (NDIC) that aims to improve 
Bakken system oil recovery and reduce 
the environmental footprint of Bakken oil 
and gas operations. We work with the 
EERC as part of the Intelligent Pipeline 
Integrity Program, a consortium of oil 
and gas producers leading and funding 
research on innovative technologies to 
detect leaks and other pipeline integrity 
issues (see page 65). We also voluntarily 
sponsor the Houston Advanced Research 
Center, which aims to develop science 
based solutions to environmental issues 
associated with oil and gas development. 
WATER MANAGEMENT
At Hess, we know that the communities 
and ecosystems where we operate depend on water to thrive and our 
operations have the potential to impact 
this resource, primarily through our use 
of fresh water and possible impacts on 
water quality that could occur due to well 
integrity issues, spills or discharges. 
Responsible water management is a focus 
of our environmental efforts and continues 
to be one of our key sustainability issues. 
We continue to employ a risk based, 
lifecycle approach to managing water 
through which we carefully assess and work 
to mitigate any potential impacts on water 
resources in both our onshore and offshore 
operations. In 2021, we updated our water 
stressed resource analysis in the Bakken 
region – our only onshore operations and 
the primary region where we use fresh 
water for our operations – using the World 
Resources Institute’s Aqueduct Water Risk 
Atlas. While this analysis confirmed that 
we are not operating in any areas of high 
baseline water stress and the potential 
for us to impact fresh water is therefore 
limited, this remains an important issue to 
us and our stakeholders. 
In 2021, we completed a water data 
mapping exercise for our North Malay 
Basin asset and a chemical analysis for 
Denmark. Through this effort, we validated 
water usage and discharge data and 
incorporated the associated processes 
into our HOMS Tier II Assurance efforts. 
Based on assurance reviews of our water 
data collection and tracking processes, 
we developed corrective actions to help 
us track these data at a more granular 
level and enhance our management of 
water resources. 
Engaging with stakeholders is central 
to our approach to water management. 
In North Dakota, our water use strategy 
is based on engagement and feedback 
with local stakeholders such as the NDIC, 
the Army Corps of Engineers, the North 
Dakota State Engineer and the Western 
Area Water Supply Authority. We are active 
members of the IPIECA Water Working Group, which aims to help companies 
improve their water use performance by 
providing sound analysis, assessment 
tools, good practices, credible data 
sources and appropriate indicators. We are 
members of the Energy Water Initiative, a 
collaborative effort among 20 oil and gas 
companies to study, describe and improve 
lifecycle water use and management in 
upstream unconventional oil and natural 
gas exploration and production. We also 
participate in the National Alliance for Water 
Innovation – a government, academic and 
private sector research partnership working 
to support a resilient water supply through 
applied research on affordable and energy 
efficient desalination and other advanced 
water treatment technologies. 
We engage with a variety of nonprofit 
organizations focused on water issues. 
In 2021, Hess continued supporting 
the Gulf of Mexico Alliance’s Gulf Star 
program, a nonprofit, public–private 
partnership that aims to enhance the 
ecological and economic health of the 
Gulf region by encouraging collaboration 
among government agencies, businesses, 
education providers and NGOs. We also 
worked with the Galveston Bay Foundation 
and Pontchartrain Conservancy on water 
sampling projects and the Barataria-
Terrebonne National Estuary Program on 
cultivating native plants and grasses to 
restore the function and habitat of critical 
Gulf Coast wetlands.
See the Shale Energy section online for more 
detail on our approach to water management 
in our shale operations: hess.com/
sustainability/environment/shale-energy
Freshwater Use
We primarily use fresh water in our onshore 
upstream operations for drilling and 
completions, and for cooling in midstream 
gas processing. We also use fresh water 
in our offshore operations for some drilling 
activities and to supply potable water to 
personnel; however, we primarily meet 
these needs by converting seawater to 
fresh water through reverse osmosis.3.0 Million Cubic Meters  
■  North Dakota  Drilling and Completion s  
■  Tioga Gas Plant   
■  All Other Operations   5%
9%
86%2021 Freshwater Use by 
Facility/Business Function9.22
012345
2021 2020 2019Million Cubic Meters
5.0
3.6
3.0
■  Groundwater
■  Municipal Water
■  Surface WaterFreshwater Use
60 | 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORTEnvironment
Hess’ total freshwater use in 2021 
decreased by 17% compared with 2020. 
The largest driver of this decrease was 
a 20% reduction in freshwater use in 
our onshore drilling and completions 
operations in the U.S. This decrease was 
largely the result of a planned reduction in 
activity – we drilled eight fewer wells and 
hydraulically fractured 48 fewer wells in 
2021 than in 2020. 
As our operational profile and practices 
continue to evolve, we remain committed 
to reducing the potential for impacts to 
freshwater resources. A key component 
of this commitment is to reuse produced 
water – nonpotable water that is released 
from underground formations along with 
produced oil and natural gas. Our ability 
to reuse produced water, however, varies 
based on the geology of the formation, 
production levels and changes in hydraulic 
fracturing technologies, among other 
factors. In our onshore operations in North 
Dakota, our freshwater reduction strategy 
primarily involves reusing produced water 
for production maintenance activities.
In 2021, we reused 272,751 cubic meters 
of produced water to replace fresh water in 
our operations, a 91% increase from 2020. 
Water Quality 
Onshore, our impacts to water quality 
are primarily related to potential releases 
that could occur due to well integrity 
issues or spills. Offshore, impacts are 
related to releases that could occur from 
well integrity failures, other oil spills or 
produced water discharges. We have 
implemented rigorous management 
practices to help prevent and mitigate 
potential impacts on water quality, 
including continuously improving 
our approach to well integrity and to 
managing produced water, our primary 
source of wastewater.
In North Dakota, our operations are covered 
by the Department of Environmental 
Quality’s routine review of groundwater 
quality monitoring wells, which is intended to identify any potential impacts to 
groundwater. We also maintain a separate 
groundwater monitoring program for Hess 
Midstream’s produced water disposal wells.
In 2021, we continued to pursue research 
projects to better understand and mitigate 
potential impacts to water quality. We 
advanced two pilot projects focused on 
produced water management: one testing 
new tools to improve the measurement and 
tracking of produced water collection, reuse 
and disposal, and the other assessing new 
approaches to treat and reuse produced 
water during completions. We also 
completed a project to evaluate potential 
microplastics pollution from offshore drilling 
activities, and we found negligible impacts. 
We discuss responsible produced water 
management in more detail online at hess.
com/sustainability/environment/shale-energy . 
Release prevention, a central element of our 
efforts to protect water quality and one of 
our key sustainability issues, is discussed 
on page 61.
Discharges from Offshore Facilities
Discharges from our offshore facilities, 
including drilling mud, drill cuttings and 
produced water, have the potential to impact 
water quality. These waste streams are 
either reinjected for disposal or reservoir 
management, discharged directly to sea 
(when allowed by applicable regulations) 
or transported to shore for treatment and 
disposal or recycling.
In 2021, our offshore facilities discharged 
to sea approximately 200 tonnes of 
nonaqueous drilling mud and cuttings, 
which included 47 tonnes of nonaqueous 
base fluid. Produced water discharges to sea 
totaled an estimated 1.1 million cubic meters 
in 2021, with an average oil content of 28 
parts per million volume (PPMV) for a total 
of 7 tonnes of oil discharged. While the oil 
concentration of these discharges increased 
year over year, tonnes of oil discharged 
decreased by approximately 20%. All of 
these discharges were in compliance with 
applicable regulations. 020406080100120140
2021 2020 2019
Oil Mass in Produced Water (Tonnes)
Oil Concentration in Produced Water (PPMV)   Oil Mass in Produced Water (Tonnes)
Oil Concentration in Produced Water (PPMV)
0246810121618
616
59
287Oil in Produced Water  
Discharges to Sea61 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | Environment
SPILL PREVENTION
The prevention of releases is one of Hess’ 
most important sustainability issues. We 
maintain spill preparedness and response 
plans and conduct emergency response 
exercises at each of our assets. To support 
a swift and effective response to any loss of 
primary containment (LOPC) incident, we 
maintain strong relationships with mutual 
aid and emergency response organizations 
at the local, regional and global levels.
Hess’ international oil spill response needs 
are supported by our partnership with Oil 
Spill Response Limited (OSRL), an industry 
funded cooperative. Our domestic needs 
for oil spill response are supported by 
the Marine Spill Response Corporation, 
Clean Gulf Associates, the Sakakawea 
Area Spill Response Cooperative, Tri-State 
Bird Rescue and Research, and the Wildlife 
Center of Texas. Hess representatives serve 
on the board of directors of OSRL and on the 
technical operations committee of Clean Gulf 
Associates, a nonprofit oil spill cooperative 
that supports the Gulf of Mexico.
Our international subsea well control 
preparedness and response capabilities are 
supported by Wild Well Control. In the Gulf 
of Mexico, we are members of and serve on 
the executive committee of the Marine Well 
Containment Company. These organizations 
provide well capping, containment and 
dispersant capabilities, as well as equipment 
and personnel mutual aid.
We contribute to the IPIECA Oil Spill Working 
Group in support of our international assets. 
We are also a member of the Oil Spill 
Emergency Preparedness and Response 
Subcommittee of the American Petroleum 
Institute (API). In addition, we participate 
in Area Planning Committee meetings for 
Regions 6 and 8 of the U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency (EPA).
We track LOPC events through our incident 
reporting system by size and material, 
and we report spills in accordance with 
applicable industry and regulatory guidance. We also use leading and lagging indicators 
to monitor LOPC performance and 
continue to include LOPC performance in 
our annual incentive plan.
In 2021, the number of hydrocarbon 
spills we experienced decreased by 
40% compared with 2020, but the 
volume increased by 46%. The number 
of nonhydrocarbon spills decreased 
by 28% compared with 2020, and the 
volume decreased by 76%. We recovered 
approximately 77% of the hydrocarbon 
spilled and approximately 54% of the 
nonhydrocarbon spilled during initial 
cleanup. Additional long term remediation 
activities were or are in the process of 
being implemented at the affected sites 
where appropriate.
We continued to implement a range of 
programs focused on spill prevention 
in 2021. To address spills that result 
from corrosion and integrity issues, we 
continued to enhance our inspection and 
surveillance programs. For example, in 
the Bakken we continued to implement 
enhanced, real time, remote monitoring 
systems for equipment, including integrity 
critical equipment, that track alignment 
with applicable operating parameters to 
help us identify and prioritize maintenance 
planning and response. We continued 
mitigation efforts to protect pipeline 
equipment from residual fracturing 
proppants that can impact reliability and 
integrity. In addition, we continued to 
enhance the range of key performance 
indicators (KPIs) we use to track 
performance internally and increase 
internal transparency and reporting.
We are also continuing a multiyear 
effort through the API’s Pipeline Safety 
Management System group to implement 
API Recommended Practice 1173, which 
is related to pipeline safety management 
systems. In 2021, we completed a review 
of our current pipeline safety systems 
against API 1173 to identify improvement 
opportunities. We formed a steering 020406080100120140160
05101520253035
2021 2020 2019
■ Volume of Spills
 Number of Spills   Volume of Spills (Barrels)
Number of Spills158
487030
20
12Hydrocarbon Spills
0100200300400500600700800900
05101520253035
2021 2020 2019787Volume of Spills (Barrels)
Number of Spills
■ Volume of Spills
 Number of Spills   671
16032
25
18Nonhydrocarbon Spills
committee to drive our implementation 
of identified opportunities, and we 
developed a series of KPIs that will be 
used to track our progress.
LIFECYCLE APPROACH  
TO WELL INTEGRITY
Maintaining the integrity of our wells – 
that is, preventing the uncontrolled or 
unintended release of oil, natural gas 
or produced fluids to the surface or 
belowground to aquifers – is fundamental to 
protecting the environment and the health 
and safety of our workforce and the 
communities where we operate.  62| 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORTEnvironment
We take a lifecycle approach to integrity for 
all Hess wells, both offshore and onshore. 
We identify the appropriate barrier systems 
for maintaining integrity throughout the 
well lifecycle during the initial design 
phase. We establish these barriers during 
construction, maintain and monitor them 
through production and add new barriers 
during abandonment, as needed. At any 
point during the well lifecycle, if a barrier is 
compromised, we will repair or replace it so 
that we maintain two barriers at all times.
Hess’ enhanced well integrity 
management system, which is being 
integrated into HOMS, defines our 
organizational structure for managing 
well integrity across the enterprise 
and provides a framework of technical 
standards and procedures for each 
stage of the well lifecycle and associated 
field activity. Our global standards for 
well integrity specify requirements for 
designing, constructing and operating 
Hess wells and identifying and assessing 
elements critical to well integrity, such 
as barriers designed to prevent or stop 
the uncontrolled flow of well fluids. They 
also outline the criteria for installation, 
verification, maintenance and operating 
limits for barriers used through the 
lifecycle of the well. 
We continue to enhance our well integrity 
management system based on ongoing 
reviews of field activity and will reassess 
integrity risks throughout the well lifecycle 
if we identify or anticipate any material 
changes to a well’s design, construction 
or operation. We are also continuing to 
improve documentation, data collection and KPI reporting and to enhance the chain of 
communication as responsibility for the well 
passes from one Hess team to another.
Well Barrier Design,  
Construction and Monitoring
Our standards require completion of 
a detailed well barrier diagram before 
undertaking activities in the field. To 
prevent uncontrolled flow, we use a 
combination of barriers such as casing, 
wellheads, seal assemblies, blowout 
preventers, cement, packers and bridge 
plugs. For example, we use cement in  
the annular space between the casing 
and the underground formation as a key 
structural component to protect aquifers.
We require a minimum length of annular 
cement above and below potential flow 
zones that meets or exceeds applicable 
regulations. We maintain multiple and 
redundant barriers throughout the well 
lifecycle, and our requirements for the 
configuration of blowout preventers on drilling 
rigs meet or exceed applicable regulations.
We validate well components and barriers 
as part of the construction process to 
verify they are working as designed.  For example, we pressure test barriers and 
well components during construction, after 
first utilizing computer models to confirm 
we will not overpressure the component 
during testing. In addition, we use 
techniques such as well logging that either 
meet or go beyond applicable regulatory 
requirements to validate correct cement 
placement between the production casing 
and the formation before completing our 
wells. In deepwater offshore wells, we use 
remotely operated vehicles to verify cement 
installation and proper isolation of wellbore 
fluids from the environment.
We maintain and monitor well integrity 
from initial drilling through plugging and 
abandonment. Offshore, barriers critical 
to well integrity are digitally monitored 
on a continuous basis. Onshore, annular 
pressures are routinely monitored as an 
indicator of well integrity issues; however, we 
are in the process of transitioning to a remote, 
digital, continuous monitoring system, 
which is planned to be completed in 2023.
See the Shale Energy section online for 
specifics on our approach to well integrity  
in our shale operations, including an example 
well barrier diagram, at hess.com/
sustainability/environment/shale-energy
Maintenance
(Repair, Intervention and Workover)Abandonment OperationConstruction
(Drilling and Completions)Scope DesignWell Development LifecycleDeepwater Assets
Deepwater assets, which include wells at a depth of more than 1,000 feet underwater, can, in certain 
circumstances, present unique challenges compared with land based wells. Because offshore wells 
tend to operate much deeper and under greater pressure, they present specific risks related to the 
containment of accidental discharges. Hess currently operates offshore production facilities in the Gulf of 
Mexico at the Baldpate, Tubular Bells and Stampede Fields. These assets are subject to the U.S. federal 
government’s Safety and Environmental Management System regulations, which provide a systematic 
approach for identifying, managing and mitigating hazards.63 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | Environment
IUCN Red List Species
with habitats overlapping Hess operations
Category Species (Count)
Critically Endangered 22
Endangered 58
Vulnerable 173
Near Threatened 154BIODIVERSITY
We are committed to conserving biodiversity 
and habitats in the places where we operate. 
We consider biodiversity protection in 
our decision making and management 
from the earliest stages of exploration and 
development through production, closure 
and abandonment at every Hess location 
around the globe. We follow the mitigation 
hierarchy of first avoiding impacts, then 
minimizing and mitigating unavoidable 
impacts, restoring impacted lands and using 
offsets to address lasting impacts.
We conduct formal environmental and 
social impact assessments (ESIAs) on 
major capital projects as part of site 
evaluation, selection and risk assessment. 
These ESIAs include biodiversity and 
cultural heritage baseline and field studies, 
identifying species on the International 
Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) 
Red List and other threatened, endangered 
and protected species lists and/or cultural 
heritage sites in federal or state databases. 
We use the results of ESIAs to create 
avoidance or mitigation strategies, where 
appropriate. Even where the conditions 
or circumstances do not call for a full 
ESIA, we routinely conduct biodiversity 
and cultural heritage risk screenings and 
undertake appropriate mitigation activities. 
As part of our commitment to conserve 
biodiversity and habitats, we have 
threatened and endangered species field 
guides for personnel to use during field 
activities. We also have a standard work 
instruction for addressing threatened 
and endangered species that may be 
encountered during field activities to help 
ensure we take appropriate steps to protect 
natural resources across our operations.
Hess utilizes third party software programs, 
such as the Integrated Biodiversity 
Assessment Tool, to identify protected 
areas and key biodiversity areas, as well 
as specific species listings. We maintain a list of IUCN Red List species with habitats 
that overlap with or are adjacent to our 
operations. (See table at right, which 
provides a snapshot of relevant species at 
this report’s publication time.) 
The IUCN regularly updates the Red List 
species classifications based on new 
information and improved data from 
ongoing third party studies, and we update 
our species list accordingly. We also 
monitor the addition of new species to the 
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s national 
endangered and threatened species lists. 
As a result of these updated species 
classifications and new listings, we identify 
locations where we may need to conduct 
new biological risk assessments and 
develop mitigation plans. During the 2021 
construction season, a total of 118 onshore 
projects in the Bakken region required 
environmental evaluation. Of those 118 
projects, 45 required field studies. Based 
on those field studies, 11 projects required 
mitigations or adjustments to protect 
species habitat, including that of the 
threatened Dakota skipper butterfly, 31 projects necessitated wetlands mitigation 
and seven projects required adjustments  
to protect cultural heritage resources.
In 2021, we expanded our analysis of IUCN 
protected areas in North Dakota beyond 
category I–III to include categories IV–VI, 
which are protected areas with lesser 
vulnerability than categories I–III. Our 
analysis found that there were four category 
I–III areas adjacent to our operations but 
not within our operating footprint (Lostwood 
Wilderness Area, Fort Union Trading Post 
National Historic Site, Two Top and Big Top 
Mesas and Theodore Roosevelt National 
Drilling Operations, North Dakota64 | 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORTEnvironment
Park). Furthermore, there were eight 
category IV, 36 category V and 67 category 
VI areas in our operating footprint, and these 
protected areas represented 996 hectares, 
or 0.3%, of the total 331,993 hectares where 
we operate in North Dakota.
While our first priority is avoiding impacts 
to biodiversity and ecosystems, we work to 
mitigate or restore any unavoidable impacts 
throughout the project or asset lifecycle. 
We implement stakeholder engagement 
plans as part of our restoration and 
decommissioning efforts to proactively 
understand and incorporate the inputs and 
needs of impacted stakeholders. We also 
develop asset restoration, retirement and 
closure plans in consultation with relevant 
regulatory agencies and other stakeholders.  
As relevant to each location, these 
plans may include addressing well and 
subsurface equipment closure and long 
term integrity, removing aboveground 
equipment and restoring impacted lands. 
We use native vegetation in surface 
restoration, unless otherwise stipulated by 
landowners or regulatory agencies, and undertake ongoing monitoring to confirm 
the effectiveness of restoration efforts. 
Restoration and closure planning activities 
are overseen by asset and enterprise 
leadership, and we allocate funding to 
adequately address these efforts. In 2021, 
for example, we continued restoration 
efforts for the Hawkeye Pipeline Project, 
which involved replacing affected plant 
species at a 3:1 ratio and monitoring 
their establishment for three years after 
construction.
We regularly work with our industry 
peers on biodiversity related issues. For 
example, we are an active member of 
the Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services 
Working Group of IPIECA. We participate 
in the API’s Endangered Species Working 
Group, with the goal of proactively 
balancing oil and gas development 
with environmental stewardship. We 
also participate in the Cross-Sector 
Biodiversity Initiative, a partnership of 
IPIECA, the International Council on 
Mining and Metals and the Equator 
Principles Association. This initiative brings the mining, oil and gas, and 
financial sectors together to develop and 
share good practices for safeguarding 
biodiversity and ecosystems.
WASTE
We generate a variety of waste streams, 
including waste specific to drilling and 
production activities. For each Hess asset, 
we manage waste through specific waste 
management plans designed to comply 
with all applicable regulatory and Hess 
requirements for that location, as well as to 
protect human health and the environment. 
These plans, which are developed to 
align with the Hess Waste Management 
Standard, require the application of our 
waste minimization principles of “Remove, 
Reduce, Reuse, Recycle, Recover, Treat 
and Dispose” – with disposal being the 
least preferred option.
In 2021, we generated approximately 
47,000 tonnes of solid waste, 
approximately 99% of which was 
classified as nonhazardous according  
to applicable regulations. Our overall 
waste generation volume was higher in 
2021 compared with 2020 due to an 
increase in storage yard cleanup efforts.
We also disposed of approximately  
60,224 tonnes of drill cuttings from our 
North Dakota asset at licensed disposal 
sites in 2021. These drill cuttings, as well as 
the discharges from our offshore facilities 
(see page 60), are not included in our overall 
waste totals per IPIECA reporting guidance.
We have continued our efforts to reduce 
landfilled piping waste by decontaminating 
it (i.e., removing technologically enhanced 
naturally occurring radioactive material or 
TENORM) and then recycling it. In 2021, 
we recycled 1,919 tonnes of nonhazardous 
piping waste in North Dakota due to  
these efforts.
See the Shale Energy section online for  
more information on naturally occurring 
radioactive material and TENORM:  
hess.com/sustainability/environment/
shale-energy
Offshore Operations, Gulf of Thailand65 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | Environment
AIR EMISSIONS
The normal operation of fuel combustion 
equipment as well as flaring activities result 
in air emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOX), 
sulfur dioxide (SO2) and volatile organic 
compounds (VOCs). Fugitive emissions 
sources, including those related to product 
loading and storage, also can contribute to 
VOC emissions. In 2021, both our absolute 
emissions and emissions intensities 
decreased compared with 2020 for all 
three of these air pollutants.
We observed a 24% decrease in absolute 
NOX emissions in 2021 due in part to 
significant reductions in flaring and the 
continuing transition to electric driven 
compressors from natural gas fired engines 
in the Bakken. Absolute SO2 emissions 
decreased by 17% in 2021 compared 
with 2020, mainly as a result of reduced 
drilling activity. Absolute VOC emissions 
decreased by 30% from 2020 to 2021, 
primarily due to reduced flaring and 
reductions in our fugitive emissions.
Leak Detection and Repair
We continued our leak detection and 
repair (LDAR) program in 2021 across 
our Bakken operations. LDAR helps us to 
achieve emissions reductions as part of 
our ONE Future and API Environmental Partnership commitments, and the 
LDAR program also helps to decrease 
the turnaround time for repairs identified 
through LDAR inspections. The program 
has a formalized process for assigning 
work material flows to field personnel, 
which helps to increase the accountability 
for and efficiency of any needed repairs.
For a detailed description of our LDAR 
program, visit hess.com/sustainability/
environment
REGULATORY COMPLIANCE  
AND LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
Assuring compliance with external 
regulations is an important element of 
HOMS. Internal assurance also helps 
us to ensure the effectiveness of our 
management systems. As part of our long 
term compliance strategy, our regulatory 
team uses a compliance tracking tool for 
our U.S. assets.
Environmental Expenditures
Hess received 23 alleged violations for 
various administrative activities regarding 
timing on submittals, well status changes 
and procedural reporting activities, which 
resulted in penalties totaling $351,650 
during 2021.Intelligent Pipeline Integrity Program (iPIPE) in North Dakota
Hess and Hess Midstream continue active involvement in iPIPE, a 
collaboration of oil and gas operators and the University of North Dakota’s 
Energy and Environmental Research Center as part of a research contract with 
the North Dakota Industrial Commission’s (NDIC’s) North Dakota Oil and Gas 
Research Program. The iPIPE consortium was started in 2018 to advance 
technologies that enhance pipeline integrity efforts and encourage their 
adoption across the industry. Since then, program participants have invested 
over $9 million (including a $2.6 million grant from the NDIC and over 
$4.1 million in matching funds and in-kind cost shares from participating 
operators and subcontractors) to fund nine projects helping to test innovative 
new leak detection and prevention technologies and processes. 
Each year, iPIPE members review a range of technologies and choose a few 
for additional investment and testing. In 2021, iPIPE members supported the 
following projects:• A leak prevention technology that leverages machine learning and artificial 
intelligence to examine operator specific and regional data to learn risk 
profiles within pipeline systems and provide an advanced risk ranking
• An application that uses advanced pressure sensing devices to distinguish 
leaks from normal operation and locate leaks anywhere within a pipeline 
system, using a simple point measurement of pressure
• A measurement technique using stereo paired imagery from satellites to 
monitor erosion control, a key priority for pipeline crossings of rivers and lakes
• A hyperspectral imaging satellite, which provides high resolution imagery to 
identify points of methane leaks
We will continue to test the effectiveness of these systems compared with our 
current standard optical gas imaging camera based leak detection and repair (LDAR) 
systems, maintaining our current LDAR practices until remote sensing systems are 
further improved and accepted as regulatory and/or industry best practice.
02,0004,0006,0008,00010,00012,00014,000
020406080100120
2021 2020 2019
   ■  NO X
■  VOC
■  SO 2NO X Intensity
VOC Intensity
SO2 IntensityEmissions (Tonnes)
Emissions Intensity (Tonnes per Million BOE)102
78
1381
53
363
45
3Air EmissionsThe majority ($195,000) of our environmental 
fine and penalty expenditures in 2021 
was the result of an administrative penalty 
resulting from a 2015 EPA inspection of 
the Tioga Gas Plant that found deficiencies 
primarily related to spill prevention and 
control measure documentation, which 
have since been addressed. The other 
substantive fine in 2021 was related to a 
2019 Pipeline and Hazardous Materials 
Safety Administration audit of Hess 
Midstream’s facilities, focused on a valve 
relocation and operator procedures.66 | 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPerformance Data
This table contains a subset of our publicly reported performance data. An expanded version of this table, which includes cross references  
to supporting narratives in this sustainability report, can be found at hess.com/sustainability/performance-data/key-sustainability-metrics .
Our annual report, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Form 10-K filing and proxy statement, which can be found at hess.
com/investors , provide more detail on our financial and governance information. A copy of our annual EEO-1 Report to the U.S. Equal 
Employment Opportunity Commission, which includes additional detail on our diversity metrics, can be found at hess.com/sustainability/
diversity-and-inclusion .
Units 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
Business Performance
Sales and other operating revenue $ Million 7,473 4,667 6,495 6,323 5,466
Net income (loss) attributable to Hess Corporation $ Million 559 (3,093) (408) (282) (4,074)
Total assets $ Million 20,515 18,821 21,782 21,433 23,112
Total debt (including finance lease obligations) $ Million 8,677 8,534 7,397 6,672 6,977
Total equity $ Million 7,026 6,335 9,706 10,888 12,354
Debt to capitalization ratio % 55.3 57.4 43.2 38.0 36.1
Exploration and Production
Total net equity hydrocarbon production (1) Thousand BOE/D 315 331 311 277 306
Total operated hydrocarbon production (wellhead)(2) Thousand BOE/D 379 454 394 323 340
Total operated hydrocarbon production (sales)(3) Thousand BOE/D 354 394 350 285 220
Proved reserves (total) Million BOE 1,309 1,170 1,197 1,192 1,154
Liquids (crude oil (light and medium oils), condensate & natural gas liquids) % 80 78 78 75 72
Gas % 20 22 22 25 28
Reserve life Years 11 9 10 12 10
Replaced production (excluding asset sales) % 295 95 104 170 351
Selected Economic Metrics
Capital and exploration expenditures $ Million 2,012 2,039 3,159 2,340 2,168
Income tax expense/(benefit) $ Million 600 (11) 461 335 (1,837)
Royalties, taxes and other remittances to governments $ Million 530 388 580 468 379
Cash dividends paid to shareholders $ Million 311 309 316 345 363
Employee wages and benefits (U.S.) $ Million 539 591 594 598 603
Interest expense before income taxes $ Million 481 468 380 399 325
Operating costs $/BOE 12 10 12 13 14
Supplier spend (approximate) $ Billion 2 3 4 4 5
Total social investment $ Million 16 11 8 7 16
Nitrogen oxides taxes $ Million 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.8
Our People
Number of permanent employees # 1,545 1,621 1,775 1,708 2,075
U.S. % 91 87 86 86 85
International % 9 13 14 14 15
Employee voluntary turnover (including retirements) % 4 3 6 6 5
Employee layoffs (including reduction in force and asset sales) % 6 9 0 20 13
Total turnover (including voluntary, layoffs and other involuntary) % 11 13 6 26 19
Women (U.S. and international) % 27 26 26 26 28
People of color (U.S.) % 24 22 22 22 23
Employees represented by collective bargaining agreements % 0 2 2 2 2
Safety Performance(4)
Fatalities – workforce (employees + contractors) # 0 0 0 0 0
Hours worked – workforce Million hours 11.4 13.2 16.0 14.9 20.8
Employee total recordable incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.05 0.32 0.05 0.13 0.09
Contractor total recordable incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.46 0.36 0.57 0.41 0.31
Workforce total recordable incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.32 0.35 0.43 0.32 0.24
Employee lost time incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.05 0.09 0.00 0.00 0.03
Contractor lost time incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.16 0.09 0.24 0.12 0.10
Workforce lost time incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.12 0.09 0.18 0.08 0.08
Employee occupational illness rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.00 0.00 0.05 0.13 0.06
Contractor occupational illness rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.03 0.05 0.12 0.02 0.08
Workforce occupational illness rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.02 0.03 0.10 0.05 0.08
(1)Total net hydrocarbons produced are equity share values from Hess’ SEC Form 10-K.
(2)Total operated hydrocarbon production (wellhead) is used to calculate our flaring and production energy intensities.
(3)Total operated hydrocarbon production (sales) is used to calculate our intensity metrics for greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and other air emissions.
(4) The rates reflected above for incidents and illness do not account for COVID-19 cases that were determined to be work related on the basis that an alternative explanation for how 
an employee contracted the disease could not be identified. While not included in our rates, these cases are recorded on Hess’ OSHA Injury and Illness logs, where applicable.67 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | Units 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
Greenhouse Gas Emissions(1)
Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbons MMSCF 11,924 18,975 25,864 20,158 22,387
Flaring intensity(2) SCF/BOE 86 115 201 195 215
Operated Scopes 1 and 2 emissions (location based) – includes Denmark
Operated direct emissions (Scope 1) Million tonnes CO 2e 2.5 3.2 3.8 3.5 3.7
Carbon dioxide Million tonnes CO 2e 2.3 2.9 3.5 3.2 3.4
Methane Thousand tonnes CO 2e 209.9 270.7 335.2 307.1 311.6
Nitrous oxide Thousand tonnes CO 2e 1.7 2.0 2.5 2.6 2.6
Operated indirect emissions (Scope 2) (location based) Million tonnes CO 2e 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4
Carbon dioxide Million tonnes CO 2e 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.4
Methane Thousand tonnes CO 2e 1.0 1.1 1.2 0.8 0.9
Nitrous oxide Thousand tonnes CO 2e 1.8 2.0 2.0 1.7 1.9
Operated indirect emissions (Scope 2) (market based) Million tonnes CO 2e 0.00 0.11 0.12 0.31 0.30
Operated Scopes 1 and 2 emissions (market based) – includes Denmark Million tonnes CO 2e 2.47 3.26 3.97 3.75 2.91
Operated Scopes 1 and 2 emissions (market based) – excludes Denmark Million tonnes CO 2e 2.32 3.07 3.77 3.56 2.71
Operated GHG emissions intensity (market based)(3) – excludes Denmark Kilograms CO 2e/BOE 18 21 30 34 34
Equity (Scopes 1 and 2) GHG emissions Million tonnes CO 2e 3.8 4.3 4.3 3.8 4.0
Equity Scope 3 emissions Million tonnes CO 2e 43.4 45.8 43.5 38.7 43.7
Energy Use
Production energy intensity(2) Gigajoules/BOE 0.19 0.16 0.21 0.28 0.32
Operated direct energy use Thousand gigajoules 18,511 18,406 20,165 23,048 25,694
Operated indirect energy use (gross) Thousand gigajoules 8,030 7,882 7,011 5,743 7,450
Net purchased electricity by primary energy source(4) Thousand MWh 870 854 760 622 807
Renewable energy certificates (wind power)(5) Thousand MWh 870 634 531 70 90
Freshwater Use
Total freshwater Million cubic meters 3.0 3.6 5.0 3.8 7.7
Groundwater Million cubic meters 1.3 0.5 1.0 1.5 5.6
Municipal water Million cubic meters 0.8 0.7 0.9 0.8 1.2
Surface water Million cubic meters 0.9 2.5 3.2 1.6 0.8
Reused/recycled (estimated)(6) % 9.1 3.9 3.6 3.3 7.7
Solid Waste
Nonhazardous Thousand tonnes 46.9 42.0 107.0 45.4 154.4
Hazardous Thousand tonnes 0.2 1.0 0.8 1.7 2.6
Liquid Waste(7)
Nonhazardous Thousand cubic meters 103 200 542 141 48
Hazardous Thousand cubic meters 0 0 0 0 0
Spills
Hydrocarbon spills – number # 12 20 30 29 52
Hydrocarbon spills – volume Barrels 70 48 158 123 245
Nonhydrocarbon spills – number # 18 25 32 20 22
Nonhydrocarbon spills – volume Barrels 160 671 787 113 581
Air Emissions (Excludes GHGs)(3)(8)
Sulfur dioxide Tonnes 417 500 1,711 1,655 2,987
Sulfur dioxide intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 3 3 13 16 37
Nitrogen oxides Tonnes 5,835 7,629 9,909 14,306 12,665
Nitrogen oxides intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 45 53 78 138 158
Volatile organic compounds Tonnes 8,207 11,659 13,000 10,303 10,724
Volatile organic compounds intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 63 81 102 99 134
Exploration and Production Discharges
Oil in produced water to sea Tonnes 7 9 16 13 70
Oil in produced water to sea PPMV 28 5 6 10 17
Produced water to sea Million cubic meters 1 1 2 1 6
Other Environmental Indicators
Environmental fines and penalties – operated $ Thousand 352 34 7 75 842
Environmental expenditures – remediation $ Million 16 15 20 15 15
Environmental reserve $ Million 60 65 70 80 80
(1)GHG performance data for 2017–2021 have been restated, as described on pages 51–52.
(2)Normalization factor for intensity is total operated hydrocarbon production (wellhead).
(3)Normalization factor for intensity is total operated hydrocarbon production (sales).
(4)Third party power generation.
(5)Hess’ purchased electricity is offset using renewable energy certificates (RECs) that are either Green e-certified (U.S.) or I-REC certified (Malaysia).
(6) Reused/recycled water 2018–2021 represents the percentage of total Bakken produced water that was reused in those years. By reusing 272,751 cubic meters of produced 
water for well maintenance in 2021, we were able to offset freshwater use in that same amount.
(7)Liquid waste totals include wastewater treatment and deep well disposal.
(8)Air emissions intensities have been restated using total operated hydrocarbon production (sales), for consistency with other normalized environmental performance data.68Independent Assurance Statement
ERM Certification and Verification Services, Inc. (ERM CVS) was engaged by Hess Corporation (Hess) to provide assurance on Hess’ 2021 Sustainability Report (the 2021 Report) and 
selected greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions data as set out below.
Engagement Summary
Scope: • Whether the 2021 Report is fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria.
•  Whether the 2021 data for the following GHG emissions are fairly presented in the Report, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria:
 –Total operated and Total equity Scope 1 GHG emissions (tonnes CO2e)
 – Total operated and Total equity Scope 2 (location-based and 
market-based) GHG emissions (tonnes CO2e) –Total Scope 3 GHG emissions from the following categories (tonnes CO2e)
 - Category 6: Business travel (air travel only); Category 10: 
Processing of sold products; Category 11: Use of sold products
•  Whether the 2017 data for the following GHG emissions are fairly presented in the Report, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria:
 –Total operated Scope 1 GHG emissions (tonnes CO2e)  – Total operated Scope 2 (location-based and market-based) GHG 
emissions (tonnes CO2e)
Reporting Criteria: • Sustainability Report:  Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards (Core option)
•  GHG emissions:  WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard; IPIECA’s Petroleum Industry Guidelines for reporting  
GHG emissions (2nd edition, 2011); U.S. EPA Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule
Assurance Standards: • Sustainability Report:  ERM CVS’s assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised)
•  GHG emissions:  International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14064-3:2019: Specification with guidance for the verification and validation  
of greenhouse gas statements
Assurance Levels: • 2021 GHG emissions and Sustainability Report: Limited assurance
• 2017 GHG emissions:  Reasonable assurance
Respective  
Responsibilities: •  Hess is responsible for preparing the Report and the GHG emissions data, and for their correct presentation, including disclosure of the reporting 
criteria and boundary.
•  ERM CVS’ responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities performed and exercising our professional judgment.
Our Opinion – Reasonable Assurance
In our opinion, the 2017 Total operated Scope 1 and Total operated Scope 2 (location-based and market-based) GHG emissions are fairly presented, in all material respects, in 
accordance with the reporting criteria.
Our Conclusion – Limited Assurance
Based on our activities, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the 2021 Report and 2021 GHG emissions are not fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance 
with the reporting criteria.
Our assurance activities
We planned and performed our work to obtain all the information and explanations that we believe were necessary to provide a basis for our assurance opinion and conclusion.  
A multidisciplinary team of sustainability, GHG and assurance specialists performed the following activities:
•  A review of external media reporting relating to Hess to identify relevant sustainability 
issues in the reporting period.
•  Interviews with relevant staff to understand Hess’ sustainability strategy, policies and 
management systems.
•  Interviews with relevant staff to understand and evaluate the data management 
systems and processes (including IT systems and internal review procedures) used for 
collecting and reporting the information.
•  An analytical review of the 2021 data for the sustainability performance indicators from 
all assets and a check on the completeness and accuracy of the data consolidation at 
the Hess corporate level.
•  Virtual visits to Hess’ operations in the Gulf of Mexico and the North Malay Basin, to 
verify the source data for the operations’ sustainability performance indicators for 
2021 and to review sustainability management implementation at the operation level.•  A virtual visit to Hess’ head office in Houston, Texas to review the consolidation 
process and the results of the internal data validation process, and to conduct 
interviews with subject matter experts regarding the content of the Report.
•  A review of samples of documentary evidence, including internal and external 
documents, relating to the assertions made regarding 2021 sustainability performance  
and activities in the Report.
•  A review of selected evidence related to the design, information collection, and 
production of the Report in accordance with GRI requirements.
•  A review of the presentation of information relevant to the scope of our work in the 
Report to ensure consistency with our findings.
•  Desktop testing of samples of evidence for the activity data underlying the 2017 GHG 
emissions for selected Hess operations in the United States and Malaysia, and a 
review of the calculation of the GHG emissions from those underlying activity data, 
including a review of the unit conversion and emission factors used.
The limitations of our engagement
The reliability of the assured data and information is subject to inherent uncertainties, given the available methods for determining, calculating or estimating the underlying information.  
It is important to understand our assurance conclusions in this context.
Due to travel restrictions as a result of COVID-19, our assurance work was conducted using a combination of desk-based reviews of information and data, and virtual interviews and 
meetings with the Hess corporate reporting team and the operations selected for virtual visits. We did not undertake any in-person visits to Hess operations.
Beth Wyke 
Partner, Head of Corporate Assurance, Malvern, PA 
June 30, 2022
ERM Certification and Verification Services, Inc 
www.ermcvs.com  | post@ermcvs.com
ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that ERM CVS conducts for clients is solely related to independent assurance activities and auditor training. Our processes are 
designed and implemented to ensure that the work we undertake with clients is free from bias and conflict of interest. ERM CVS and the ERM staff that have undertaken this engagement 
work have provided no consultancy related services to Hess in any respect.
| 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT69 2021 HESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | Design: incdesign.comThis report contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of 
Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E 
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Words such as 
“anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “guidance,” “could,” “may,” 
“should,” “would,” “believe,” “intend,” “project,” “plan,” “predict,” “will,” 
“target” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, 
which are not historical in nature. Our forward-looking statements may 
include, without limitation: our future financial and operational results; our 
business strategy; estimates of our crude oil and natural gas reserves 
and levels of production; benchmark prices of crude oil, natural gas 
liquids and natural gas and our associated realized price differentials; our 
projected budget and capital and exploratory expenditures; expected 
timing and completion of our development projects; future economic 
and market conditions in the oil and gas industry; and information 
about sustainability goals and targets and planned social, safety and 
environmental policies, programs and initiatives.
Forward-looking statements are based on our current understanding, 
assessments, estimates and projections of relevant factors and 
reasonable assumptions about the future. Forward-looking statements 
are subject to certain known and unknown risks and uncertainties 
that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical 
experience and our current projections or expectations of future results 
expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. The following 
important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from 
those in our forward-looking statements: fluctuations in market prices 
of crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas and competition in the 
oil and gas exploration and production industry, including as a result 
of COVID-19; reduced demand for our products, including due to 
COVID-19, perceptions regarding the oil and gas industry, competing or 
alternative energy products and political conditions and events; potential 
failures or delays in increasing oil and gas reserves, including as a result 
of unsuccessful exploration activity, drilling risks and unforeseen reservoir 
conditions, and in achieving expected production levels; changes in 
tax, property, contract and other laws, regulations and governmental SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTSAwards and Recognition 
Environmental, Social  
and Governance
• CDP Climate Change leadership status,  
13 consecutive years
• Dow Jones Sustainability Index North 
America, 12 consecutive years
• 3BL Media’s 100 Best Corporate Citizens,  
14 consecutive years; No. 1 energy company 
and only oil and gas company
• STOXX Global ESG Leaders Index,  
9 consecutive years
• MSCI AAA ESG Rating; earned AA ratings for 
10 consecutive years before being upgraded 
in 2021
• FTSE4Good U.S. Index, 9 consecutive years
• Newsweek magazine’s America’s Most 
Responsible Companies; highest ranked oil 
and gas producer
• Transition Pathway Initiative; Level 4 ratingDiversity, Equity and Inclusion
• Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index,  
2 consecutive years 
• Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate 
Equality Index; top third of oil and gas 
companies
• Minority Engineer magazine’s Top 50 
Employers, 4 consecutive years
• STEM Workforce Diversity magazine’s Top 50 
Employers, 13 consecutive years
• Hispanic Network magazine’s Best of the 
Best Employers, 6 consecutive years
• Black EOE Journal’s Best of the Best 
Employers, 6 consecutive years
• Careers and the disABLED magazine’s  
Top 50 Employers, 11 consecutive years
• Woman Engineer magazine’s Top 50 
Employers, 10 consecutive years
• Equal Opportunity magazine’s Top 50 
Employers, 3 consecutive yearsManagement
• Wall Street Journal’s Top 250 Best- 
Run Companies
• Institutional Investor’s All-America Executive 
Team, #1 across all eight categories for the 
oil and gas production sector
• Forbes’ America’s Best Midsize Employers
Health and Wellness
• American Heart Association 2021  
Workplace Health Achievement – Silver,  
2 consecutive years
• Springbuk’s Healthiest 100  
Employers in America and #1 in Texas  
for Midsize Companies
• Houston Business Journal’s Healthiest 
Employers for Midsize Companies
actions applicable to our business, including legislative and regulatory 
initiatives regarding environmental concerns, such as measures to 
limit greenhouse gas emissions and flaring, fracking bans as well as 
restrictions on oil and gas leases; operational changes and expenditures 
due to climate change and sustainability related initiatives; disruption 
or interruption of our operations due to catastrophic events, such as 
accidents, severe weather, geological events, shortages of skilled labor, 
cyberattacks, health measures related to COVID-19, or climate change;  
the ability of our contractual counterparties to satisfy their obligations 
to us, including the operation of joint ventures under which we may not 
control and exposure to decommissioning liabilities for divested assets in 
the event the current or future owners are unable to perform; unexpected 
changes in technical requirements for constructing, modifying or 
operating exploration and production facilities and/or the inability to 
timely obtain or maintain necessary permits; availability and costs 
of employees and other personnel, drilling rigs, equipment, supplies 
and other required services; any limitations on our access to capital 
or increase in our cost of capital, including as a result of limitations 
on investment in oil and gas activities or negative outcomes within 
commodity and financial markets; liability resulting from environmental 
obligations and litigation, including heightened risks associated with 
being a general partner of Hess Midstream LP; and other factors 
described in Item 1A—Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K 
and any additional risks described in our other filings with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission.
As and when made, we believe that our forward-looking statements are 
reasonable. However, given these risks and uncertainties, caution should be 
taken not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements 
since such statements speak only as of the date when made and there can 
be no assurance that such forward-looking statements will occur and actual 
results may differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking 
statement we make. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation 
to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether 
because of new information, future events or otherwise.www.hess.com
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
2021 Sustainability Report