HESS MIDSTREAM
2020 Sustainability ReportCORPORATE VALUES 
AND POLICIES
Hess Midstream is committed to the Hess 
Values of integrity, performance, social 
responsibility, independent spirit, value creation 
and people, which set the framework and 
establish the ethical standards by which we 
conduct business. For further detail, please visit 
the Hess website at hess.com/company/values .
For copies of our Environment, Health and 
Safety Policy, Social Responsibility Policy or 
Human Rights Policy, please visit our website at 
hessmidstream.gcs-web.com/company . For more 
information regarding our operations, please 
visit our website at hessmidstream.com .
REPORTING SCOPE 
AND STANDARDS
Hess Midstream’s inaugural sustainability report 
is a companion to Hess’ 2020 Sustainability 
Report that provides additional detail on our 
management approach and performance data 
with respect to our most material sustainability 
issues. This report should be read in conjunction 
with Hess’ 2020 Sustainability Report,  
available at hess.com/sustainability , which 
provides greater detail on sustainability 
strategy, management systems and programs 
for Hess that also apply to Hess Midstream.
We used leading sustainability reporting 
frameworks to guide the content for this report, 
including the Energy Infrastructure Council (EIC) 
and GPA Midstream Association (GPA) 
Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) 
Reporting Template, a midstream specific 
guide for sustainability reporting; the 
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board 
standard for oil and gas – midstream; the 
Taskforce for Climate-Related Financial 
Disclosures; and the Global Reporting Initiative 
Standards. Direct responses to the EIC/GPA 
ESG Reporting Template, as well as an index of 
our sustainability reporting indicators, can be 
found at hessmidstream.gcs-web.com/
sustainability-report .
Select performance data disclosed in this 
report – including greenhouse gas emissions 
data – were reviewed as part of the third party 
assurance of consolidated data in Hess’ 2020 
Sustainability Report.
21
7
11
15TABLE OF CONTENTS
1
MESSAGE TO OUR 
STAKEHOLDERS
Our view on building a sustainable company
2
ABOUT HESS MIDSTREAM
Our company operations in brief
3
SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH
A description of our sustainability journey, 
materiality assessment and reporting scope
7
HOW WE OPERATE
Our approach to sustainable management  
and performance
11
SAFETY AND HEALTH
Aiming to get everyone, everywhere, every day, 
home safe
15
CLIMATE CHANGE  
AND ENERGY
Balancing the world’s growing energy needs 
with greenhouse gas emissions reduction
21
ENVIRONMENT
Responsible management of our environmental 
footprint
23
PERFORMANCE DATA
ON THE COVER
Gas Processing Operations, 
North Dakota
2020 HESS MIDSTREAM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   1Hess Midstream is committed to building a sustainable enterprise 
that helps meet the world’s energy needs in a safe, environmentally 
responsible, socially sensitive and profitable way. Climate change is 
one of the greatest challenges of the 21st century. We believe climate 
risks can and should be addressed while at the same time meeting 
the growing demand for the safe, affordable and reliable energy that 
is necessary to ensure a just and secure energy transition. 
As a growth oriented provider of midstream services to Hess 
Corporation and other third party crude oil and natural gas 
producers, we recognize the importance of sustainability to our 
business strategy and to all of our stakeholders – our shareholders, 
business partners and the local communities where we operate. 
Enabling production of and access to affordable and reliable 
energy is key to human welfare and global economic development 
in the context of the U.N. Sustainable Development Goals, 
especially as the world continues to recover from the effects of  
the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Hess Midstream is aligned with Hess Corporation in its aim to 
help meet the world’s growing energy needs while reducing its 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. We support the aim of the 
Paris Agreement and also a global ambition to achieve net zero 
emissions by 2050. We play an important part in Hess’ emissions 
reduction efforts by providing the infrastructure to move oil, natural 
gas liquids and natural gas to market and reduce wellhead flaring 
as well as through actions to reduce Hess Midstream’s GHG 
emissions, which are included in Hess’ overall emissions footprint. 
Hess Midstream completed a number of important initiatives in the 
past year to enhance safety, reduce environmental impacts and 
drive performance improvements. We maintained strict protocols 
to help mitigate the risks of COVID-19 in our operations and 
our communities, continued to enhance integrity management 
programs across our facilities to minimize process safety risk, 
followed a robust preventative maintenance program and executed 
infrastructure improvements focused on spill prevention.
A key recent milestone was the safe completion of a planned 
maintenance turnaround at our Tioga Gas Plant in the summer 
of 2021, which we proactively deferred from 2020 to reduce MESSAGE TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS
COVID-19 related risks. The maintenance activities completed 
during the turnaround and tie-in of the 2020 plant expansion will 
increase processing capacity and reduce flaring from production 
operations as well as help maintain a safe and reliable plant. 
In 2020, Hess significantly surpassed its five year targets for GHG 
emissions intensity and flaring intensity reduction and announced 
new five year GHG reduction targets for 2025. Hess Midstream’s 
continued focus on gas gathering infrastructure, natural gas 
capture and flare reduction initiatives in the Bakken plays a 
critical role in support of these emissions reduction targets, 
as described in this report. Expansion of Hess Midstream’s 
produced water gathering and disposal system to support 
growth of Hess’ Bakken asset has also allowed us to gather 
water by pipeline in place of trucks, reducing truck related air 
emissions and the risk of spills.
In 2021, we conducted an assessment of the most material 
sustainability issues for Hess Midstream to guide development of 
our future strategy and goals. This materiality assessment shaped 
the content for this Sustainability Report, which was guided 
by leading sustainability reporting frameworks. We expect to 
communicate further progress in our next Sustainability Report.
Publication of our inaugural Sustainability Report for Hess 
Midstream reflects our commitment to transparency about our 
environmental, social and governance plans and performance. 
We want to thank our customers, business partners, investors, 
communities and the Hess employees who serve Hess 
Midstream for their continued support. We also are grateful to our 
sponsors and our Board of Directors for their engagement and 
support of our sustainability efforts.
John B. Hess 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Hess Midstream LP
February 20222
ABOUT HESS MIDSTREAM
   
 Hess Midstream owns and operates an 
expansive and diverse set of midstream 
assets that provides basin leading services to 
affiliates of Hess Corporation and a growing 
third party customer base. Our facilities are 
primarily located in the Bakken and Three 
Forks shale plays in the Williston Basin area 
of North Dakota, which we collectively refer 
to as the Bakken – one of the most prolific 
crude oil producing basins in North America.
“We,” “our,” “us,” “Hess Midstream” 
or like terms refer to and include Hess 
Midstream LP and our subsidiaries, 
including Hess Midstream Operations LP 
and its subsidiaries, as well as our general 
partner Hess Midstream GP LP . The terms 
“enterprise” and “enterprisewide” as used 
within this report refer to Hess Corporation, 
also referred to in this document as “Hess.”Through our agreements with Hess, Hess 
employees and contractors perform all 
operational and administrative services 
for us in support of our assets, including 
matters related to environment, health, 
safety and social responsibility (EHS & 
SR). In addition, Hess employees are 
seconded as necessary to develop and 
execute our business strategy. As a result, 
Hess Midstream’s operations are generally 
conducted in accordance with Hess’ strong 
management and assurance systems, 
programs and practices. As described in 
more detail throughout this report, we also 
follow Hess’ management approach to 
EHS & SR issues and benefit from Hess’ 
significant experience in these areas.GATHERING
Hess Midstream owns and operates 
approximately 1,900 miles of crude oil 
and natural gas gathering pipelines and 
facilities, located primarily in McKenzie, 
Williams and Mountrail counties, North 
Dakota, in the Bakken region. These 
facilities compress natural gas and move 
crude oil and natural gas from remote wells 
to processing and storage facilities and 
have a capacity to gather approximately 
240,000 barrels per day (BBLD) of crude 
oil and 450 million standard cubic feet per 
day (MMSCFD) of natural gas.
Hess Midstream also owns and operates 
a produced water gathering and disposal 
business that supports Hess’ produced 
water gathering and disposal needs in North 
Dakota and serves third party customers.
PROCESSING AND STORAGE
Hess Midstream owns and operates the 
Tioga Gas Plant, a large, strategically 
located gas processing plant north of the 
Missouri River, and owns 50% of the Little 
Missouri 4 gas processing plant south 
of the Missouri River, for a combined 
processing capacity of 500 MMSCFD. In 
addition, Hess Midstream owns a propane 
storage cavern and terminal in Minnesota.
TERMINALS AND EXPORT
Hess Midstream owns and operates 
integrated, interconnected terminal facilities 
that provide flexibility for crude oil export, 
with an approximate capacity of  
385,000 BBLD, and natural gas liquids 
export of 80,000 BBLD. These include 
truck and pipeline terminals, a rail terminal 
and rail cars, and a header system, all of 
which provide access to intrastate and 
interstate pipeline systems and markets.Hess Midstream Current Portfolio of Operations
n  Hess Operated Acreage 
 County and State Borders
 Crude Oil Gathering Pipelines
 Natural Gas Gathering Pipelines
 Water Gathering PipelinesTioga Gas Plant 
Tioga Rail Terminal 
Ramberg Terminal Facility
Hawkeye Gas Facility
Hawkeye Oil Facility
Johnson’s Corner Header System
Little Missouri 4 Gas Plant
MOUNTRAI L
DUNNMcKENZIEDIVIDE BURKE
WILLIAM S2020 HESS MIDSTREAM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   3
Hess Midstream is committed to 
sustainability and responsible operations. 
We are aligned with Hess in its aim to help 
meet the world’s growing energy needs and 
address key challenges facing the world 
today, including climate change. We believe 
sustainable and responsible operations 
create value for the benefit of all our 
stakeholders – our shareholders, business 
partners and the local communities and 
economies where we operate – which in 
turn benefits society at large. 
We are aligned with Hess’ environment, 
health, safety and social responsibility 
strategy and management systems, and we 
play a critical role in achieving enterprisewide 
goals and performance improvements. Hess 
Midstream supports Hess’ greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions reduction goals and 
performance by providing the infrastructure 
needed to move natural gas to market and 
to reduce wellhead flaring, as well as through 
actions to reduce our own GHG emissions, 
which are included in Hess’ overall emissions 
footprint. See page 15 for further detail.
Hess Midstream aims to develop our own 
sustainability strategy and goals to further 
drive our performance and enhance our 
support of Hess’ sustainability efforts. In 
late 2020, we developed a sustainability 
reporting and strategy road map to 
guide our journey toward sustainability 
leadership. Following this planning 
exercise, in early 2021 we conducted 
a materiality assessment to help further 
define the most material sustainability 
issues for Hess Midstream and where 
these issues may warrant more emphasis 
for the midstream business compared 
to the enterprise, and to guide our future 
strategy and goals development. We 
expect to communicate further progress on 
our journey in our next sustainability report.SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH
SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING  
SCOPE AND BOUNDARIES
Hess Midstream’s inaugural sustainability 
report is a companion to Hess’ 2020 
Sustainability Report. We used leading 
sustainability reporting frameworks to  
guide the content for this report, including  
the Energy Infrastructure Council (EIC) 
and GPA Midstream Association (GPA) 
Environment, Social and Governance 
(ESG) Reporting Template, a midstream 
specific guide for sustainability reporting 
developed in collaboration with ESG 
specialists, operational and technical 
experts, and investors.
Access our index of sustainability reporting 
indicators at hessmidstream.gcs-web.com/
sustainability-report
Materiality and Report Content
Our materiality assessment completed in 
2021 helped to validate the most material 
sustainability issues for Hess Midstream 
and guide the content development for 
this report. We started with the inputs and 
results from Hess’ most recent materiality 
assessment (see pages 6 and 9 of Hess’ 
2020 Sustainability Report), which included 
Hess Midstream, and then prioritized the 
issues and identified any gaps with respect 
to the midstream business. The midstream 
assessment included a range of inputs as 
follows: interviews and workshops with 
internal stakeholders; topics identified by 
midstream specific sustainability reporting 
frameworks, including the EIC/GPA ESG 
Reporting Template and the Sustainability 
Accounting Standards Board standard for 
oil and gas – midstream; benchmarking 
midstream peers’ material issues; and 
consultation with third party sustainability 
experts.
Based on the materiality assessment, the 
five most material sustainability issues for 
Hess Midstream are as follows:• Asset Integrity and Process Safety
• Occupational Health and Safety
• Climate Related Risk and GHG 
Emissions
• Corporate Governance
• Community and Stakeholder 
Engagement
Reporting boundaries and public disclosures 
for each sustainability topic relevant to Hess 
Midstream are described on pages 4–5.
RESTATEMENTS
Hess Midstream follows the Hess GHG 
Inventory Protocol, and we believe this 
approach to restating data complies 
with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
Standards’ principle of comparability and 
specific disclosure regarding restatements 
of information.
Access the Hess GHG Inventory Protocol  
at hess.com/sustainability/climate-change-
energy
ASSURANCE
We utilize Hess’ internal information 
systems for the centralized collection 
of data from Hess Midstream facilities. 
In order to evaluate accuracy and 
reliability, we conduct quality assurance/
quality control reviews and validation of 
both aggregated and facility level data. 
Individual numbers in the charts, tables 
and text may not precisely sum to the  
total amounts shown due to rounding.
Select performance data disclosed in 
this report including GHG emissions data 
were reviewed as part of the third party 
assurance of consolidated data in Hess’ 
2020 Sustainability Report. External 
reviews help to ensure consistent and 
objective data collection and reporting of 
our sustainability performance.4SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH
 * Hess Midstream top material issueREPORTING BOUNDARIES BY SUSTAINABILITY TOPIC
The following are the reporting boundaries and references to further discussion of sustainability issues covered within this report.  
In addition to the segregated Hess Midstream performance data found on pages 23–24 of this report, and online at hessmidstream.gcs-
web.com/sustainability-report, data for Hess Midstream (for topics denoted below with “**”) are included in the aggregated data found on 
pages 62–63 of Hess’ 2020 Sustainability Report and online at hess.com/sustainability/performance-data/key-sustainability-metrics.
Water Management
We follow Hess’ risk based, lifecycle 
approach to managing water, through 
which we carefully assess and work 
to mitigate potential impacts on water 
resources.
See page 22 of this report.**
Corporate Governance*
We provide oversight over sustainability 
issues through our Board of 
Directors, our executive leadership 
and integration with Hess’ corporate 
governance.
See page 7 of this report.
Enterprise Risk Management
We are fully integrated in Hess’ 
enterprise risk management process 
– a comprehensive, standardized 
approach to identifying and managing 
risks, such as those related to climate 
change and cybersecurity, across  
our operations.
See page 8 of this report.
Occupational Health and Safety*
We emphasize a culture of ownership 
for occupational health and safety by 
following the safety standards and 
assurance processes of the Hess 
Operational Management System 
(HOMS).
See pages 11−12 of this report.**
Community and  
Stakeholder Engagement*
We follow Hess’ community and 
stakeholder engagement processes, 
actively pursuing dialogue with 
stakeholders to share our values, vision 
and goals and to seek feedback.
See page 9 of this report.
Climate Related Risk and 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions*
We play an integral role in Hess’ climate 
goals and strategy and are aligned 
with Hess’ oversight and management 
approach to climate related risk, 
including accounting for the cost of 
carbon in significant new investment 
decisions and assessing a broad range 
of energy transition risks as an integral 
part of Hess’ business planning cycle.
See pages 15−19 of this report.**
Asset Integrity and  
Process Safety*
We aim to prevent the unplanned 
or uncontrolled loss of primary 
containment of any material by 
following the asset integrity and 
process safety related standards and 
assurance processes of HOMS.
See pages 12−13 of this report.
Energy Use
We follow Hess’ energy management 
approach, which incorporates 
energy reduction principles and 
the procurement of electricity from 
renewable sources.
See page 19 of this report.**
Air Emissions Management
We follow Hess’ air quality management 
approach including its leak detection 
and repair program, which helps us 
maintain regulatory compliance and 
achieve emissions reductions.
See page 22 of this report.**
Release Prevention
We follow Hess’ approach to release 
prevention, including standards for 
produced water management, pipeline 
asset integrity and well integrity, to help 
manage potential environmental impacts 
to water and surface ecosystems.
See page 21 of this report.**2020 HESS MIDSTREAM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   5While our top material issues have driven the content for this report, many of the other relevant topics included in our materiality 
assessment are also important to our stakeholders and our company and will continue to be addressed in our business processes  
and external reporting. Here we provide a brief description of each topic, as well as resources to learn more about our management 
approach and performance data for each. Additionally, mitigation measures and other activities related to the COVID-19 pandemic, 
including Hess’ occupational safety and emergency response efforts, community involvement and investments, and employee support 
services, are described in Hess’ 2020 Sustainability Report, available at hess.com/sustainability.
Business Conduct
We have adopted Hess’ business 
ethics and integrity programs and 
practices, including Hess’ Code of 
Business Conduct and Ethics and 
related training.
See page 16 of the Hess  
2020 Sustainability Report.
Political Engagement
We are represented by Hess in its 
advocacy efforts with an array of 
stakeholders, including legislators  
and regulators at the local, state and 
federal level.
See pages 16–18 of the Hess 2020 
Sustainability Report.Emergency Preparedness  
and Response
By following Hess’ approach to 
emergency preparedness and response, 
we respond to actual or threatened 
injuries to people, spills and releases to  
the environment; damage to our assets; 
and impacts to the company’s reputation.
See pages 31–32 of the Hess  
2020 Sustainability Report.
Economic Contributions
We contribute to the local economy 
in North Dakota through community 
capacity building and supplier spend.
See pages 5 and 24 of the  
Hess 2020 Sustainability Report.
Human Capital Management
We do not have our own employees. 
Hess Midstream utilizes Hess 
employees through both a secondment 
agreement and an omnibus agreement, 
so employee demographics and 
employment practices, including 
those related to diversity, equity and 
inclusion, are as reported for Hess.
See pages 13–14 and 35–37 of  
the Hess 2020 Sustainability Report.
Supply Chain and  
Contractor Management
We follow Hess’ approach to supply 
chain and contractor management, 
collaborating with suppliers and 
contractors to promote efficient 
operations; maintain high standards 
of environment, health and safety 
performance; mitigate risks; and create 
shared value.
See pages 18–19 and 32–33 of  
the Hess 2020 Sustainability Report.
Waste Management
We follow the Hess Waste 
Management Standard, which requires 
application of the waste minimization 
principles – Remove, Reduce, Reuse, 
Recycle, Recover, Treat and Dispose – 
across our operations.
See page 60 of the Hess  
2020 Sustainability Report.
Regulatory Compliance
We are committed to compliance  
with applicable regulations, an 
important element of HOMS, and we 
follow Hess’ approach.
See page 61 of the Hess  
2020 Sustainability Report.
Biodiversity and  
Ecosystem Services
We are committed to conserving 
biodiversity and habitats in the places 
where we operate and follow Hess’ 
biodiversity management approach.
See pages 59–60 of the  
Hess 2020 Sustainability Report.Gas Gathering Operations, North Dakota2020 HESS MIDSTREAM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   7
HOW WE OPERATE
Hess Midstream supports Hess’ aim to 
help meet the world’s growing energy 
needs in a way that protects the health and 
safety of the Hess workforce, safeguards 
the environment and contributes to 
the sustainability of the communities 
where Hess operates while delivering 
long term value to shareholders and 
other stakeholders. Along with the Hess 
Values and Code of Business Conduct 
and Ethics (Code of Conduct), our Social 
Responsibility (SR) Policy, Human Rights 
Policy, and Environment, Health and 
Safety (EHS) Policy define our internal 
expectations for sustainable management 
and performance. We apply these 
principles to key company processes and 
initiatives, as described in this section.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The highest level of oversight at Hess 
Midstream rests with our Board of Directors, 
which is comprised of four Hess executives, 
three directors from Global Infrastructure 
Partners and three independent directors.
Our Board is actively engaged in overseeing 
our company’s strategy and performance, 
including sustainability issues and risk 
management. For more information on 
the Board’s involvement in climate change 
related issues, see the Climate Change 
and Energy section (page 15). 
Our Board has a standing Audit Committee 
and may, from time to time, establish a 
Conflicts Committee. The Audit Committee 
provides oversight of the integrity of our 
financial statements and our compliance 
with legal and regulatory requirements and 
corporate policies and controls, as well as 
risk management, while our Board retains 
oversight of sustainability and climate 
related issues. All three members of the 
Audit Committee are independent under 
standards established by the New York 
Stock Exchange and the Exchange Act and  all are “audit committee financial experts” as 
defined by relevant Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC) rules. The Conflicts 
Committee, when established, reviews 
specific matters that may involve conflicts of 
interest in accordance with the terms of our 
partnership agreement, and all members of 
the committee are independent.
Hess Midstream is led by executive officers 
who manage our business and provide 
executive oversight under our employee 
secondment agreement with Hess. These 
officers may also perform responsibilities 
for Hess and its affiliates unrelated to our 
business. Hess Midstream’s President and 
COO meets regularly with our Board to 
provide updates on sustainability related 
issues, including climate change, and to 
prioritize ongoing and future actions. Other 
Hess executives provide management and 
oversight of Hess Midstream, also through 
our employee secondment agreement 
with Hess (see page 5). These executives 
routinely participate in Hess meetings 
focusing on operational, strategic, financial 
and EHS & SR matters and generally 
manage our business following Hess’ 
policies and processes. Access our 2020 U.S. SEC Form 10-K filing, 
which has further detail on our executives’ 
roles, at hessmidstream.gcs-web.com/
investors/sec-filings
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
The Hess Operational Management 
System (HOMS) is a common operational 
framework outlining how Hess Midstream 
addresses risk management, process 
safety, environmental responsibility, and 
management of Hess employees and 
contractors, as well as the efficient and 
reliable design and operation of our 
assets. This integrated and consistent 
enterprisewide approach is designed to help 
Hess Midstream manage risks associated 
with a changing organization; coordinate 
technical expertise, standards and 
processes across the organization; and align 
asset level operations with enterprisewide 
standards and business priorities. 
HOMS activities are managed through a 
“Heads of” and Technical Authority Network, 
composed of leaders for each key function 
(e.g., EHS, Wells, Reliability Operations, 
Projects and Facilities Engineering, and 
Global Supply Chain) who are supported 
by relevant technical authorities and subject 
Oil Gathering Operations, North Dakota8matter experts. The Head of each functional 
area is responsible for overseeing activities 
in that area across the enterprise, verifying 
that relevant standards are applied as 
appropriate and working with each asset, 
including Hess Midstream, to optimize 
safety, quality, delivery and cost. This 
group meets monthly with asset leaders, 
including Hess Midstream executives, to 
optimize synergies across Hess’ and Hess 
Midstream’s functions and assets, support 
enterprisewide initiatives and promote 
transparency of activities.
KEY ENTERPRISE PROCESSES
We utilize Hess’ key business processes, 
such as enterprise risk management 
(ERM), value assurance, due diligence 
and Lean thinking, to help identify and 
mitigate risks in potential, new and existing 
operations; achieve operational excellence; 
and evaluate investment opportunities. 
See pages 14–16 of the Hess 2020 
Sustainability Report for more information 
on these key processes.Enterprise Risk Management
Hess Midstream’s Board of Directors has 
ultimate oversight over ERM and is charged 
with understanding the key risks affecting 
the company’s business and how those 
risks can be managed. The ERM process 
provides a framework that enables the Board 
and executive leadership to work together 
to strengthen the consistency of risk 
consideration in making business decisions.
We annually refresh midstream related risk 
assessments and plans, which consists of 
identifying key risks including those related 
to EHS & SR; assessing the likelihood and potential impact of these key risks to 
people, the environment, our reputation 
and our business; and adopting controls 
and mitigations to manage them. Hess  
Midstream’s risk assessments and plans 
are then considered when updating Hess’ 
corporate risk register. We provide regular 
updates to the Hess Midstream Board 
on identified risks and risk management 
strategies utilized under the Hess Risk 
Management Standard.
See pages 14–15 of the Hess 2020 
Sustainability Report for more information 
on the ERM process and page 15 of this 
report for more details on Hess Midstream’s 
management of climate related risks.
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Social responsibility (SR), one of the Hess 
Values, requires us to maintain the highest 
corporate citizenship standards while 
delivering the energy the world needs by 
protecting the health and safety of Hess’ 
employees and contractors, safeguarding 
the environment, and creating a long 
lasting, positive impact on the communities 
where we operate. For information on 
Hess’ strategic social investments, 
see pages 24–25 of the Hess 2020 
Sustainability Report.
Our Code of Conduct, SR Policy, and 
Human Rights Policy embody our 
commitment to corporate citizenship 
by compelling Hess Midstream to 
demonstrate high standards of ethics and HOW WE OPERATE
Gas Processing Operations, North Dakota
Cybersecurity
We utilize a comprehensive, standardized approach to identifying and managing 
cybersecurity risks, which requires annual cybersecurity training for Hess’ employees and 
contractors and cybersecurity drills with different scenarios to help ensure employees 
and contractors know what to do in the case of a cybersecurity event. As part of our 
pandemic response, Hess also launched a remote work resource center that included tips 
for maintaining cybersecurity in a remote work environment. To provide oversight of our 
approach, we regularly review cybersecurity with our Board of Directors.2020 HESS MIDSTREAM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   9integrity and to respect human and labor 
rights including the prohibition of child labor, 
forced labor and workplace harassment  
in our operations and our supply chain.  
These policies are supported through 
procedures and training programs 
specific to the needs of Hess Midstream’s 
operational locations.
Stakeholder Engagement
Hess Midstream’s approach to SR 
emphasizes proactive stakeholder 
engagement and social risk and impact 
management in the communities where 
we operate.
We follow Hess’ stakeholder planning and 
engagement process to prioritize safety, 
integrity and transparency, and we are 
committed to managing our stakeholder 
relationships with respect. This process 
is aligned with, and included in, the Hess 
Risk Management Standard and results 
in an External Affairs and Stakeholder 
Plan that includes midstream. The plan 
identifies relevant stakeholders and 
proposes stakeholder specific engagement 
strategies, allowing Hess Midstream to build 
relationships with external stakeholders 
and to identify opportunities for benefiting 
communities while improving our business 
and strengthening our license to operate.
We work with Hess to engage with a wide 
range of external stakeholders to share our 
values, vision and goals; seek feedback on 
operations; and mitigate impacts.
These stakeholders include the following:
• Land Users/Landowners: Residents, 
landowners, commercial land interests, 
farmers, ranchers
• Resources Users/Rights Holders: Mineral 
rights owners, water rights owners and 
users, hunters, fishers, gatherers• Governments: Local, regional and federal 
authorities
• Parties with Direct Economic Interests: 
Investors, vendors and suppliers, 
contractors, shareholders
• Parties with External Business Interests: 
Chambers of commerce, industry 
organizations, local businesses, 
sustainability initiatives
• Special Interest Groups: Nongovernmental 
organizations, religious groups, cause 
oriented nonprofits, community groups
• Community Services: Police, fire and 
emergency medical services; health 
care services; education; human service 
agencies
• Indigenous Groups: Formally recognized 
groups, tribal coalitions, government 
supporting agencies, Indigenous 
advocacy groups
Access recent examples of stakeholder 
engagement activities at hess.com/
sustainability/social-responsibilityGrievance Mechanisms
In the communities where we operate, we 
do our best to address potential issues 
early, before they mature into more severe 
challenges. Formal grievance mechanisms 
are an important part of soliciting 
stakeholder feedback for our operational 
impacts and help us respond to and act on 
feedback through an established process.
Hess Midstream’s operations utilize Hess’ 
formal grievance mechanisms, which accept 
feedback and complaints (anonymously, 
if desired) through several access points. 
When alerted to a potential issue, the 
response team draws personnel from various 
disciplines – such as EHS, operations, 
maintenance, civil construction and human 
resources – that are best able to respond to 
the concern and reach a resolution.
We track grievances from start to 
completion using Hess’ internal 
stakeholder management database. 
In 2020, Hess Midstream received 49 
grievances through this process, all of 
which we believe have been resolved.In Tioga, where we operate a large gas plant, we meet regularly with the local volunteer 
fire department as part of the development and annual review of pre-incident plans, which 
allows us to understand how we can best advance local emergency preparedness, build 
the department’s capacity and support the overall community. These plans identify water 
sources and other relevant infrastructure within nearby facilities, thereby helping the fire 
department to plan for equipment it may need to respond to an incident, including fire 
and rescue efforts at these facilities. This allows for a more effective incident response and 
ultimately lowers fire insurance costs for the surrounding community. 
While advancing emergency preparedness for our facilities is an important goal of 
these engagements, we take added measures to demonstrate our commitment to the 
local community. We bring first responders to key facilities and office locations for walk 
throughs to support our ability to work together during an incident. We also host regular 
emergency response training drills with the fire department. For example, in early 2021, 
we hosted a drill simulating a tank explosion at the Tioga Gas Plant, providing a unique 
training opportunity for first responders and an important collaborative preparedness 
experience. We also use our ongoing engagement with local first responders to inform 
Hess’ social investment efforts, such as funding equipment purchases and supporting 
training opportunities based on their feedback.Engaging with Tioga’s Local First RespondersGas Processing Operations, North Dakota2020 HESS MIDSTREAM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   11
Safety is our top priority and is 
embodied within the Hess Value of 
Social Responsibility, which also sets 
the framework for how Hess Midstream 
conducts business. Occupational health and 
safety, asset integrity and process safety 
are among our most material sustainability 
issues and are described in this section. 
Emergency preparedness and response, 
another important issue for Hess Midstream, 
is covered in the Hess Sustainability Report.
We faced significant health and safety 
challenges related to the COVID-19 
pandemic in 2020. We responded with 
what is always our main objective: putting 
the safety of the Hess workforce first. Hess 
Midstream’s safety programs and practices 
aim to maintain a culture in which Hess 
employees and contractors keep each other 
safe on the job so that everyone across 
our operations returns home safe every 
day. Our commitment to safety begins with 
leadership, and we work to reinforce it at 
every level across our business. We also 
conduct leadership site visits and safety 
observations at our operational locations to 
engage with workers on safety performance.
The Hess Operational Management System 
(HOMS), which incorporates the Hess 
Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) 
Global Standards, serves as a framework 
for managing and measuring our safety 
performance and ensuring continuous 
improvement. The safety standards and 
associated procedures address key areas 
of safety risk – such as energy isolation, 
dropped objects and confined space entry 
– and promote leadership, awareness, 
consistency and accountability across 
all levels of the enterprise. The HOMS 
Audit Element and associated Assurance 
Procedure measures conformance with 
external and internal requirements (e.g., 
regulations, policies, standards and 
procedures) using the following three tiers:SAFETY AND HEALTH
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY
Hess Midstream promotes a culture 
of ownership by empowering workers 
with responsibility for identifying and 
mitigating safety issues relevant to their 
operations. Through Hess’ behavioral 
safety observation program, workers are 
trained to conduct peer to peer workplace 
observations to identify and track safe and 
at risk behaviors. Immediate feedback is 
given to workers who have been observed.
Hess Midstream has implemented a 
formal behavioral safety program at all 
locations and provides ongoing training 
on behavioral safety, analysis and 
identification, and conversation skills.
Key Performance Metrics
Following an exceptional year for safety 
performance in 2019, we saw an increase 
in our workforce total recordable incident 
rate (TRIR) and workforce lost time incident 
rate (LTIR) in 2020. Our TRIR increased 
from 0.13 in 2019 to 0.78 in 2020, and our 
LTIR increased from 0.13 to 0.19.• Tier I Assurance: Hess’ Corporate Audit 
Department (CAD), an independent 
assurance function, conducts annual 
audits covering occupational health and 
safety; drilling, completions and production 
process safety; and management of 
environmental impacts. CAD’s annual plan 
is reviewed by the Audit Committee of 
Hess Midstream’s Board of Directors.
• Tier II Assurance: Hess subject matter 
experts and technical authorities work 
with Hess Midstream to conduct 
assessments of conformance with 
applicable Hess corporate and EHS 
standards and procedures, as well as 
with applicable regulations, and assist in 
addressing improvement opportunities.
• Tier III Assurance: Hess Midstream 
conducts routine self assessments 
against Hess EHS standards, business 
level procedures and regulations.
Beginning in 2021, we adopted a revised 
tiered assurance framework, described on 
page 28 of the Hess 2020 Sustainability 
Report.
Terminaling and Export Operations, North Dakota120.00.20.40.60.81.01.2
2020 2019 2018
■Employee Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)
Contractor TRIR■  Employee and Contractor
Safety Performance
Cases per 200,000 Hours
 
1.12
0.720.92
0.17
0.000.74
0.00.20.40.60.81.0
2020 2019 2018
■  Workforce TRIR
■  Workforce Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR)
*Workforce data includes both Hess employees and contractors.  
 When calculating LTIR, calendar workdays are used. A lost time  
 incident involves one or more days away from work, excluding  
 the day of the incident.Workforce
Safety Performance*
Cases per 200,000 Hours
0.82
0.140.78
0.13 0.130.19
In response to incidents at midstream 
locations during the year, root cause analyses 
were conducted and corrective actions 
were implemented. In addition, following 
the uptick in incidents in 2020, Hess 
Midstream participated in a systemic review 
that addressed factors impacting our safety 
performance, including worker distraction due 
to COVID-19. We were able to apply lessons 
learned through that review to our planning 
for the 2021 Tioga Gas Plant turnaround 
(see page 13).SAFETY AND HEALTH
• Design integrity: Reducing risks in the 
design and construction of facilities
• Technical integrity: Inspecting, testing 
and maintaining hardware and software 
barriers
• Operational integrity: Working within 
operational design parameters
We perform Pre-Startup Safety Reviews for 
new and, as relevant, modified facilities that 
validate compliance with equipment and 
construction design specifications, adoption 
of proper operating procedures, completion 
of necessary training and resolution of 
any issues identified in previous risk 
assessments prior to starting operations.
Once facilities are in operation, we 
undertake ongoing integrity inspections 
and maintenance, guided by a risk 
based approach that helps us prioritize 
equipment with higher potential for integrity 
issues. For facilities we have classified 
as subject to the OSHA PSM standard 
and/or the U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency (EPA) Risk Management Plan 
(RMP) program, we undertake regular 
Process Hazard Analyses (PHAs) that 
follow the requirements of the Hazard and 
Operability methodology for the OSHA 
PSM and the EPA RMP . This PHA process 
includes identifying potential hazards, 
controls and safety issues associated with 
existing facilities and proposed designs, 
and then developing safeguards and 
mitigations for identified hazards. PHAs 
promote a consistent approach to risk 
and hazard assessment, reporting of 
findings and implementation of mitigation 
efforts. See the Environment section of 
this report (page 21) for more detail on our 
pipeline related integrity efforts.
In 2020, we continued to enhance facility 
level integrity management programs to 
minimize process safety risk. Integrity 
critical equipment (ICE) are barriers and 
safeguards that prevent or mitigate PSEs 
through detection, isolation, containment, While we continue to pursue efforts to 
reverse this uptick in incidents, we are 
encouraged that our safety performance 
has trended downward over the past four 
years, with our TRIR decreasing by 29%, 
from 1.10 in 2017 to 0.78 in 2020. We also 
experienced no fatalities among either Hess 
employees or contractors during this time.
Hess Midstream sets an annual target 
aimed at reducing the rate of severe and 
significant safety incidents (SSSI), which 
is reviewed by our Board of Directors. As 
part of Hess Midstream’s SSSI rate, we 
track near miss incidents with potential 
to result in severe consequences, as 
well as incidents that result in an actual 
consequence, including Tier 1 and 
2 process safety events (PSEs) and 
recordable incidents. Near miss incidents 
must be reported internally and recorded 
in the Hess incident management system 
as if an actual consequence had occurred.
PROCESS SAFETY  
AND ASSET INTEGRITY
Hess Midstream’s process safety 
standards aim to prevent the unplanned 
or uncontrolled loss of primary 
containment of any material that could 
result in an incident such as an injury, 
fire, explosion, toxic release or other 
environmental impact. These standards 
support our compliance with regulatory 
requirements, including, where applicable, 
the U.S. Occupational Health and 
Safety Administration’s (OSHA) Process 
Safety Management (PSM) and the 
U.S. Department of Transportation’s 
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety 
Administration requirements. 
We focus on understanding and identifying 
key points within the process safety 
systems at our facilities that could impact 
asset integrity and the safe and proper 
operation of equipment. In particular, we 
address:2020 HESS MIDSTREAM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   13control or emergency preparedness and 
response within our facilities. We utilize 
Hess’ ICE performance standards, which 
set specific requirements and criteria for 
inspections and tests to help ensure ICE 
barriers are effective. In 2020, we again met 
our target of 100% inspection and testing 
of ICE, with approximately 964 critical 
performance standard assurance test work 
orders completed, further expanding our 
understanding of barrier health.
Following the Hess Management of Change 
(MOC) Standard is an important element 
of our process safety efforts. The standard 
provides requirements and best practices 
for identifying, reviewing, approving and 
documenting changes that could impact the 
safety of people, the environment or assets, 
as well as recommendations for facility design 
and project execution. In 2020, we completed 
implementation of an electronic MOC (eMOC) 
system across our operations to further 
strengthen and standardize our efforts.
We also began implementation of an 
electronic Permit to Work (ePTW) system 
at the Tioga Gas Plant in 2020. PTW 
requirements seek to ensure that risks 
are mitigated prior to conducting work, 
personnel are involved in planning the work 
and conducting a risk assessment, proper 
authorization is in place for the work to be 
carried out, the person in charge of an area 
is aware of the ongoing work, and a formal 
hand back of the facility or equipment in 
a safe condition is in place. We expect to 
complete implementation of this system 
across our operations in 2023.
Both the eMOC and ePTW systems are 
expected to improve our understanding of 
risk and support better risk management 
and decision making.
Key Performance Metrics
After having just one PSE in 2018, we 
returned to counts comparable to historical 
levels in 2019 and 2020. While the number 
of PSEs has remained flat, the recorded severity of these events was lower in 
2020. For the Tier 2 PSEs that occurred 
in 2020, Hess Midstream has completed 
investigations and is implementing 
appropriate corrective actions to help 
prevent similar incidents in the future.
Hess Midstream also tracks Tier 3 
and Tier 4 key performance indicators 
(KPIs), which are leading process safety 
indicators primarily designed to monitor 
risk control systems and process 
safety barriers at the facility, asset or 
enterprise level. We use these KPIs to drive continuous improvement at our 
facilities. An example of a Tier 4 KPI is 
the execution of required maintenance 
on ICE, which was an indicator included 
in the 2020 annual incentive plan bonus 
calculation for Hess employees.
Process Safety Ev ents
2018 2019 2020
Tier 1
PSE Count040
Tier 2
PSE Count15 9Hess Midstream successfully and safely 
completed a planned maintenance 
turnaround at the Tioga Gas Plant in the 
summer of 2021. The maintenance activities 
completed during the turnaround will help 
to maintain a safe and reliable plant. The 
turnaround, along with an expansion project 
that was mechanically completed in 2020, 
will increase processing capacity and reduce 
flaring from production operations.
The turnaround was originally scheduled to occur in 2020, but we chose to delay all 
maintenance activities requiring a plant outage until 2021 to reduce COVID-19 related risks 
associated with assembling the large number of workers required to complete this project. 
We implemented strict COVID-19 safe work practices for all workers, including hygiene 
protocols, wearing masks, social distancing, completing daily health questionnaires, and 
regular COVID-19 testing for the entire workforce. 
Following months of preplanning and cross functional collaboration between Hess, Hess 
Midstream and our service providers, we protected the health and safety of our team while 
minimizing impacts to operations and to the local community, including increased vehicular 
traffic and additional workers in the area. More than 650 workers, including 300 who were 
contracted specifically for this project, completed more than 120,000 work hours. With no 
recordable incidents during the turnaround, we achieved our goal of “everyone, everywhere, 
every day, home safe” for the project.
Enhancing the ongoing integrity and safety of our equipment was a key part of this project. 
We successfully completed over 300 asset integrity and process safety inspections, tests and 
equipment replacements as part of the turnaround. Other highlights include the following:
• 120,000 hours worked with zero reported recordable safety incidents
• 44 vessels/exchangers/heaters cleaned and inspected
• 37 comprehensive integrity inspections
• 125 safety valves tested, more than 250 valves replaced and 25 valves overhauled
•  20 pressure relief valves replaced, 13 tested and 66 relief system piping modifications 
completed
In addition, we successfully minimized upstream gas flaring during the turnaround by 
entering into natural gas offload agreements and executing pipeline interconnects that 
allowed Hess to sell natural gas that would otherwise have been flared. Tioga Gas Plant Turnaround Supports Safety Performance
Gas Processing Operations, North Dakota2020 HESS MIDSTREAM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   15
Hess Midstream is fully aligned with  
Hess’ position on climate change, which is 
one of the greatest scientific challenges of 
the 21st century. 
Hess’ climate strategy is closely aligned 
with the recommendations of the Task 
Force on Climate-Related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD), established by the 
G20 Financial Stability Board, and its 
implementation is led by senior members  
of the Hess leadership team, which 
includes Hess Midstream executives.
In 2020, Hess significantly surpassed its 
five year targets for greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions intensity and flaring intensity 
reduction. In 2021, Hess announced new five 
year GHG reduction targets for 2025. Hess 
Midstream plays a critical role in support of 
these targets, as described on pages 17−19.
Hess and Hess Midstream understand 
that a substantive climate strategy 
requires companies to look beyond a five 
year timeframe and have established an 
executive led task force, which includes 
Hess Midstream executives, to consider the 
medium and longer term climate strategy for 
the enterprise.
See the full Hess Climate Change Position 
statement on page 39 of the 2020 Hess 
Sustainability Report.
GOVERNANCE
The Hess Midstream Board of Directors 
oversees Hess Midstream’s sustainability 
practices so that sustainability risks and 
opportunities, including those related to 
climate change, are taken into account when 
making strategic decisions. The President 
and Chief Operating Officer of Hess 
Midstream meets regularly with the Hess 
Midstream Board and provides updates on 
strategic initiatives, including those related  
to climate change.CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY
RISK MANAGEMENT
Through the Hess enterprise risk 
management (ERM) process, we have 
developed a risk profile for all midstream 
operations. The risk profile identifies key 
risks including those related to climate 
change. For each risk scenario, we 
estimate the likelihood and potential 
impact that the identified risks, including 
physical, reputational and transition related 
climate change risks, could have on the 
business. We compile all identified risks 
on risk registers, including summaries that 
catalog actions for managing or mitigating 
each identified risk.
Energy Transition Risks
Energy transition risks are the risks 
associated with the rate of change in 
policy actions, technologies or market 
conditions aimed at emissions reductions, 
energy efficiencies, subsidies or taxes that 
may be needed to achieve climate related 
aims. In order to assess a broad range of 
energy transition risks, and as an integral 
part of its planning cycle, Hess conducts 
an annual scenario based carbon asset 
risk assessment. Hess’ asset specific 
annual scenario planning exercise includes 
Hess Midstream and tests the resilience of 
Hess’ portfolio against a range of energy 
supply and demand, environmental policies 
and market conditions. For all scenarios, 
each asset is viewed independently with 
regard to its contribution to Hess’ overall 
portfolio. In addition, Hess Midstream 
accounts for the cost of carbon in 
significant new investment decisions.
Physical Risks
Hess Midstream considers the potential 
physical risks associated with climate 
change – such as increased severity of 
storms, droughts and flooding – for both 
new projects and existing operations 
through the Hess ERM and value assurance processes. Mitigations to 
address changing storm magnitude are 
incorporated into the design of Hess 
Midstream facilities, where appropriate, 
and severe weather management and 
business continuity plans are maintained 
for severe weather events. 
We carry insurance policies for business 
interruption, certain property damage and 
third party liabilities, including sudden and 
accidental pollution liabilities, at varying 
levels of deductibles and limits that we 
believe are reasonable and prudent under 
the circumstances to cover our operations 
and assets.
Hess Midstream is included in certain 
analyses conducted by Hess, including its 
assessment of how climate change may 
impact water availability and water stress in 
the areas where Hess and Hess Midstream 
operate using the World Resources Institute’s 
Aqueduct tool. Hess is also in the process 
of conducting an in depth assessment 
of existing Bakken operations, including 
Hess Midstream, utilizing geographical 
information system tools to incorporate 
climate modeling scenarios to evaluate 
changing vulnerabilities, such as the 
potential for heat stress and flooding.
METRICS AND TARGETS
Hess Midstream played a critical role in Hess 
achieving its 2020 targets to reduce Scope 1  
and Scope 2 GHG emissions intensity by 
25% and flaring intensity by 50% from its 
operated assets compared to 2014 levels. 
As previously reported, Hess has significantly 
surpassed both of these targets. Specifically, 
it has achieved the following:
• Reduced the GHG emissions intensity of 
its operated assets from 41 tonnes per 
thousand barrels of oil equivalent (BOE) in 
2014 to 22 tonnes per thousand BOE in 
2020, or by 46% versus our target of 25%
16(CO2e) per BOE (equivalent to 17 tonnes 
CO2e per thousand BOE) by 2025. This 
new GHG reduction target utilizes a market 
based approach to GHG accounting, which 
allows the use of market based instruments 
such as renewable energy certificates 
(RECs) to offset the environmental impact of 
Scope 2 GHG emissions.
Hess’ GHG intensity reduction target, 
which would result in a 44% GHG intensity 
reduction between 2017 and 2025, is 
designed to keep pace with the latest 
energy supply and demand scenarios from 
the International Energy Agency (IEA) in 
its 2021 World Energy Outlook. The IEA’s 
Sustainable Development Scenario and 
Net Zero Scenario require a 21% and 36% 
carbon intensity reduction, respectively, 
between 2017 and 2030 in order to be 
consistent with the Paris Agreement’s less 
than 2°C and net zero ambitions.
Continued flare reduction is a primary driver 
for achieving Hess’ 2025 GHG emissions 
intensity target, and Hess has tied flare 
reduction to compensation to help drive 
further GHG reductions. Specifically, Hess 
has set a target to achieve a 7% gross flaring 
rate from its wells and pads, as reported 
to the North Dakota Industrial Commission 
(NDIC), in 2021. This target is more 
aggressive than the 9% gross flaring rate 
currently required by the NDIC.
As part of advancing its updated climate 
change strategy, Hess has established 
a new executive led task force including 
Hess Midstream executives that will 
evaluate and implement the medium and 
longer term aspects of the strategy.
GREENHOUSE GAS PERFORMANCE 
Hess Midstream reports GHG emissions 
from our operated facilities. GHG emissions 
estimates include carbon dioxide (CO2), 
methane and nitrous oxide, which are reported in units of CO2e. We use global 
warming potentials based on the values 
in the Fourth Assessment Report: Climate 
Change 2007 (AR-4), prepared by the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change, to estimate CO2e totals.
Hess Midstream reports direct (Scope 1) 
operated GHG emissions from stationary 
combustion sources such as flaring, 
heaters, turbines and engines, and 
noncombustion fugitive emissions 
sources, such as storage tanks, 
compressor seals, pneumatic pumps and 
valves. In addition, we also report indirect 
emissions (Scope 2) associated with 
purchased electricity. The factors used to 
estimate emissions for these combustion 
and noncombustion sources are those 
prescribed by the U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency (EPA) in its GHG 
Mandatory Reporting Rule (40 CFR Part  
98, Subpart C and Subpart W).
Key Performance Metrics
Hess Midstream represented 
approximately 22% of Hess’ Scope 1  
and Scope 2 GHG emissions profile in 
2020, as illustrated at left.
In 2020, of our total estimated 811,600 
tonnes of GHG emissions, process 
operations accounted for 270,600 tonnes, 
flaring accounted for 158,300 tonnes 
and purchased electricity accounted for 
319,700 tonnes of emissions. Fugitive 
emissions and venting accounted for 
the remaining 63,000 tonnes. When 
considering the total 811,600 tonnes of 
emissions on a facility basis, gas gathering 
accounted for 426,400 tonnes, the Tioga 
Gas Plant accounted for 357,700 tonnes 
and the Tioga Rail Terminal accounted for 
the remaining 27,500 tonnes.• Reduced the flaring intensity of its 
operated assets from 276 standard 
cubic feet (SCF) per BOE in 2014 to 
114 SCF per BOE in 2020, or by 59% 
versus its target of 50%
These targets were primarily achieved 
through investing more than $3.4 billion in 
midstream infrastructure in North Dakota 
between 2012 and 2020 and strong 
production performance by Hess.
We expect Hess Midstream’s continued 
focus on gas gathering infrastructure and 
flare reduction initiatives in the Bakken 
will also contribute significantly to the 
achievement of Hess’ new 2025 GHG 
intensity target and 2021 gross flaring rate 
target, as described further below.
As part of Hess’ updated climate change 
strategy and in alignment with TCFD’s 
criteria for target setting, Hess has 
established a new GHG intensity reduction 
target for 2025, using 2017 as a baseline. 
Hess’ target is to reduce the GHG 
emissions intensity of its operated assets to 
17 kilograms (kg) carbon dioxide equivalent CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY
3.924.33
3.67
012345
2020 2019 2018Hess Midstream as a Portion
of Hess’ Operated GHG 
Emissions (Scopes 1 and 2)
Million Tonnes of CO2e
■  Hess Upstream ■  Hess Midstream2020 HESS MIDSTREAM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   17Our absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG 
emissions were reduced by approximately 
88,300 tonnes in 2020, or by 10%, 
compared to 2019. This decrease was led 
by reductions in our Scope 1 emissions –  
primarily related to enhancements in 
natural gas gathering infrastructure, 
which helped to reduce flaring, as well 
as continued implementation of our leak 
detection and repair (LDAR) program, 
which helped to reduce fugitive emissions. 
The decrease in our Scope 1 emissions 
was partially offset by an increase in 
Scope 2 indirect emissions, which was 
due to additional electricity use related to 
the electrification of compressor stations.
In 2020, as in previous years, we used  
RECs to offset the environmental impact 
of our Scope 2 CO2e emissions. As a 
result, Hess Midstream’s absolute 2020 
GHG emissions were reduced by 241,600 
tonnes – from 811,600 tonnes on a 
location basis to 569,900 tonnes on a 
market basis.
Currently, there is no standardized 
methodology among midstream producers 
to calculate GHG emissions intensity, 
and as a result there are many different 
intensity metrics used by midstream 
companies. For emissions intensity 
purposes, we include in our denominator 
all the natural gas, natural gas liquids 
and crude oil that passes through our 
gathering and handling facilities, from 
the point of leaving the well pad to the 
terminals and gas processing plants.
Based on this methodology, Hess 
Midstream has reduced our market 
based GHG emissions intensity from 
approximately 10 kg per BOE in 2018 to  
5 kg per BOE in 2020, or by 48%, through 
a series of flare reduction initiatives and 
electrification of gas compressor stations.EMISSIONS REDUCTION 
INITIATIVES
We are focused on identifying GHG 
reduction opportunities, evaluating and 
implementing technologies as appropriate 
and evaluating capital and infrastructure 
requirements. In collaboration with Hess, 
Hess Midstream has prioritized the 
following emissions reduction initiatives:
• Continuing to optimize field development 
and infrastructure plans for our Bakken 
operations through the following:
 −Tioga Gas Plant expansion and 
debottlenecking to provide an additional 
150 million standard cubic feet per day 
(MMSCFD) in processing capacity
 −Installing additional compression 
capacity in 2020 and 2021, with more 
planned for the future
 −Utilizing advanced modeling tools 
to maximize the capabilities of our 
infrastructure
• Examining and implementing 
alternatives to flaring, such as utilizing 
natural gas that would have been 
flared for onsite power generation or 
conversion to liquified natural gas
• Pursuing studies to improve energy 
efficiency
• Examining potential power purchase 
agreement structures to address Hess’ 
and Hess Midstream’s electricity needs 
through renewable energy, thereby 
offsetting or eliminating our collective 
Scope 2 GHG emissions
The Hess Midstream Board of Directors 
will be updated on the progress of these 
initiatives. 
Please refer to case studies on page 50  
of Hess’ 2020 Sustainability Report 
for additional examples of emissions 
reduction initiatives.2020 Operated GHG Emissions
(Scopes 1 and 2) by Facility
Tonnes CO2e
■  Gas Gathering  426,393
■  Tioga Gas Plant  357,675
■  Tioga Rail Terminal  27,4923%
53% 44%
00.20.40.60.81.0
0246810
2020 2019 2018Operated GHG Emissions
(Scopes 1 and 2)                                                  
■  Scope 1 CO 2 Emissions
■  Scope 1 Methane Emissions
■ Scope 2 GHG Emissions (market based)
■■ Scope 2 GHG Emissions (incremental 
 location based)
 GHG Intensity (kg CO2e/BOE)Million Tonnes CO2e
GHG Intensity (kilograms CO 2e per BOE)2020 Operated GHG Emissions
(Scopes 1 and 2) by Source
Tonnes CO2e
■  Electricity (Scope 2)  319,706
■  Fuel Gas Combustion  270,551
■  Flaring  158,344
■  Venting  43,838
■  Fugitives  19,1206%
39%20%2%
33%18
Flaring
In 2020, flaring from Hess Midstream 
facilities totaled approximately 2.5 billion 
standard cubic feet (BSCF), a decrease of 
nearly 1 BSCF from 2019 or approximately 
28%. This reduction was primarily related 
to our focus on natural gas capture through 
increased availability and reliability at our 
compressor stations, expansion of gathering 
infrastructure, enhanced communication 
with third party gatherers and improved 
planning of new wells to prioritize gathering 
of new natural gas production.
The majority (approximately 73%) of 
our 2020 flaring volume occurred in the 
gathering systems at compressor stations, 
which is mainly attributed to constraints 
in downstream infrastructure that are 
being actively addressed, as discussed 
below. Around 19% of total flaring in 2020 
was from safety flaring associated with 
rail car loading vapors at the Tioga Rail 
Terminal. The remaining 0.2 BSCF or 8% 
of 2020 flaring was from the Tioga Gas 
Plant, mostly due to operational changes 
resulting from lower levels of hydrogen 
sulfide in the inlet gas, and subsequent 
decommissioning of the sulfur recovery 
unit (SRU). (See page 22 for more on 
the SRU.) When normalized against the volume of hydrocarbons processed 
(thousand standard cubic feet per BOE), 
our flaring intensity in 2020 was around 
0.023, a 31% reduction from 2019.
We are taking steps to continue driving 
flare reductions in the next several years, 
including continued execution of capital 
projects to increase natural gas capture 
rates in Hess’ production operations and in 
the Bakken region. As detailed in the Safety 
and Health section of this report, the Tioga 
Gas Plant was shut down for approximately 
45 days in the third quarter of 2021 for 
required maintenance and completion of 
an expansion project that commenced in 
2020. The expansion increased the plant’s 
capacity from 250 MMSCFD to 400 
MMSCFD and allows the plant to process 
Hess and third party natural gas. We also 
continue to add capacity throughout our 
gas gathering systems as needed. (See 
pages 50–51 of the Hess Sustainability 
Report for more detail.)
Methane
In 2020, our total Scope 1 methane 
emissions were reduced by approximately 
13% to 1,197 tonnes, down from 1,371 
tonnes in 2019. This equates to 29,913 
tonnes of CO2e (assuming a Global 
Warming Potential of 25), which represents 
approximately 6% of our operated Scope 1 
GHG emissions. Major sources of methane 
are fugitive emissions from pneumatic 
devices, pumps, tanks, compressor seals 
and pipelines, and the residual unburned 
methane associated with flaring.
One ongoing element of Hess’ 
environment, health, safety and social 
responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy has been 
to pursue voluntary reductions in methane 
emissions from two angles: performance 
based targets and best practices.  
In support of this strategy, Hess and 
seven other companies founded the ONE Future Coalition in 2014 – a group with 
representation from across the natural gas 
industry including midstream operations, 
focused on identifying policy and 
technical solutions that yield continuous 
improvement in the management of 
methane emissions associated with the 
production, processing, transportation 
and distribution of natural gas. By the 
end of 2020, ONE Future membership 
had grown to around 40 companies. 
ONE Future offers a performance based, 
flexible approach that is expected to 
yield significant reductions in methane 
emissions. ONE Future’s measurement 
protocol has been approved by the EPA.
The goal of ONE Future is to voluntarily 
lower methane emissions to less than 1% 
of gross methane production across the 
U.S. value chain by 2025. Peer reviewed 
analyses indicate that a leak/loss rate of 1% 
or less across the U.S. natural gas value 
chain provides immediate GHG reduction 
benefits. To achieve this goal, ONE Future 
has established 2025 methane emissions 
rate targets for each sector of the natural gas 
value chain: production (0.28%), gathering 
and boosting (0.08%), processing 
(0.11%), transmission and storage (0.30%) 
and distribution (0.22%), which cumulatively 
total the 1% target. 
Hess Midstream operates in two of the 
ONE Future sectors – gathering and 
boosting and processing.  We have made 
significant progress toward the 0.08% 
methane emissions intensity target for 
gathering and boosting between 2018 and 
2020, reducing our rate from around 0.20% 
to 0.09% during that time. This reduction 
is mainly attributable to the electrification 
of compressors. Our methane emissions 
intensity from processing, which has 
consistently been well below the ONE 
Future target of 0.11%, was reduced from 
0.05% in 2018 to 0.03% in 2020.2020 Flaring by Facility
Million Standard Cubic Feet
■  Gas Gathering  1,859
■  Tioga Rail Terminal  475
■  Tioga Gas Plant  2068%
73%19%CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY2020 HESS MIDSTREAM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   19
Initiatives involving Hess Midstream 
operations – including the provision of 
gathering infrastructure and resultant flaring 
intensity reduction, as well as the continued 
implementation of our LDAR program – 
have also been instrumental in lowering 
Hess’ production methane emissions 
intensity from 0.26% in 2018 to 0.22% in 
2020 (further surpassing the 0.28% ONE 
Future production target).
With further efficiency improvements planned 
for the coming years, we anticipate that we  
will achieve our sectoral ONE Future targets  
by 2025.
In addition to this ONE Future commitment, 
as part of its EHS & SR strategy update, 
Hess has established a global methane 
intensity target of 0.19% by 2025. The 
new target uses natural gas sales as a 
denominator, where the ONE Future protocol 
uses methane production. We expect that 
Hess Midstream’s continued efforts to 
increase natural gas capture and reduce 
flaring, paired with our LDAR program, will 
support Hess in achieving this global target.
Other External Commitments
In a related voluntary effort to adopt and 
promote industry best practices, Hess 
became one of the founding participants 
of The Environmental Partnership (The 
Partnership) in 2017. The Partnership is 
focused on technologically feasible and 
commercially proven solutions that result  
in significant emissions reductions. 
A key goal of The Partnership is furthering 
action to reduce air emissions associated  
with natural gas and oil production. The 
Partnership has initiated several programs  
and allows member companies to decide 
which are best suited for their operations. 
The Partnership originally launched three 
oil and gas emissions reduction programs 
primarily focused on production operations. 
The Partnership has recently initiated 
three new programs, two of which have a midstream focus: pipeline blowdowns and 
compressor station emissions reductions. 
Hess and Hess Midstream have committed 
to participating in both.
Hess submits information on its 
implementation of all of these programs to 
The Partnership, which in turn publishes 
an annual report every summer. Hess also 
plans to report on its progress in each 
of these programs as part of its annual 
sustainability report.
ENERGY USE
Hess Midstream generates and purchases 
energy primarily for power, processing, 
heating and cooling. In 2020, energy 
consumption from midstream facilities 
was approximately 10.6 million gigajoules, 
8% higher than in 2019. This increase 
is primarily due to increased energy 
use associated with gas gathering and 
processing due to increased production 
in North Dakota and increased electricity 
usage from the conversion from natural 
gas to electric compression. 
Forty-four percent of our energy use was 
directly generated from our operations – 
primarily at our gathering, boosting and 
processing facilities in North Dakota. The 
remaining 56% was indirect energy (i.e., 
energy used by utilities to provide electricity) 
primarily purchased for use at the Tioga Gas 
Plant and our electric compression facilities.
Based on U.S. electricity generation profiles, 
we estimate that approximately 27% of our 
purchased electricity was generated from 
renewable sources, primarily wind power. 
To offset Hess Midstream’s total 481,000 
megawatt hours of purchased electricity that 
came from nonrenewable sources, a total of 
481,000 Green-e Energy certified Renewable 
Energy Certificates (RECs) were purchased 
from Multiple Mix Products. In total, including 
the RECs, 100% of our indirect energy use 
came from renewable sources.■ Gathering and Boosting
 Gathering and Boosting 2025 Target
■ Processing
 Processing 2025 Target   0.00%0.05%0.10%0.15%0.20%
2020 2019 2018Methane Emissions 
Intensity, Based on the ONE 
Future Protocol Methodology
(Tonnes Methane Emitted/Tonnes 
Methane Produced)
 
9,224
02,0004,0006,0008,00010,00012,000
2020 2019 2018Energy Use
Thousand Gigajoules
 
9,82110,585
■  Direct ■  Indirect
   Export Operations, North Dakota2020 HESS MIDSTREAM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   21Hess Midstream is committed to 
protecting the environment, and doing 
so is a central part of our daily work. We 
follow Hess’ environmental management 
standards and procedures, which help us 
to mitigate and manage potential impacts 
from our operations and help ensure 
compliance with environmental laws 
and regulations, internal standards and 
voluntary commitments. Spill prevention, 
air emissions management and water 
management are described in this section, 
while our approaches to biodiversity, 
waste management and environmental 
compliance – which mirror Hess’ – are as 
described on pages 59–61 of the Hess 
2020 Sustainability Report.
SPILL PREVENTION
The prevention of releases and our related 
asset integrity efforts are among Hess 
Midstream’s top material sustainability 
issues. We follow Hess’ standards for 
produced water management, pipeline 
asset integrity and well integrity, which help 
us to manage potential environmental 
impacts on water and surface ecosystems. 
We do this by taking a lifecycle approach 
– from initial project planning through 
construction, operations, maintenance 
and decommissioning – and follow the 
U.S. Department of Transportation’s 
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety 
Administration (PHMSA)’s asset integrity 
requirements on all regulated as well as 
most nonregulated pipelines.
During project planning and construction, 
Hess Midstream undertakes localized 
risk assessments and develops designs 
based on specific landscape, ecosystem, 
community and regulatory criteria. We use 
best practice construction techniques, 
including location and function specific 
choices about materials, cathodic protection 
and corrosion prevention, to maximize ENVIRONMENT
the integrity of our facilities. We perform 
extensive testing, including hydrostatic 
testing and smart pigging of pipelines, before 
operating the pipelines or adjoining facilities.
Once operating, we follow a risk based 
approach for ongoing inspections and 
preventive maintenance where we employ 
remote and in person monitoring, smart 
pigging, corrosion monitoring and aerial 
surveillance practices. Hess has extended 
its cathodic protection program and aerial 
surveillance practices to include pipelines 
that are not under PHMSA jurisdiction. 
We also perform inline inspections; close 
interval, soil-to-pipeline gradient cathodic 
protection surveys; and flyover inspections 
that go beyond applicable regulations on 
some pipelines. In 2020, we implemented 
enhanced, real time, remote monitoring 
systems for our equipment, including 
integrity critical equipment. These systems 
track alignment with applicable operating 
parameters to help us identify and prioritize 
maintenance planning and response.
We are continuing a multiyear effort through 
the American Petroleum Institute’s (API) 
Pipeline Safety Management System group 
to implement, evaluate and enhance API 
Recommended Practice 1173, a best 
practice pipeline safety management system.
In the event a spill or release should 
occur, we maintain spill preparedness and 
response plans and conduct emergency 
response exercises and other training. To 
support a swift and effective response to 
any loss of primary containment (LOPC) 
incident, we maintain strong relationships 
with mutual aid and emergency response 
organizations at the local and regional level. 
Key Performance Metrics
We track LOPC events through the Hess 
incident reporting system by size and 
material, and we report spills following applicable industry and regulatory 
guidance. We also use leading and lagging 
indicators to monitor performance on 
environmental releases and set annual 
performance targets that are reviewed 
regularly with our Board of Directors. In 
addition, we continue to enhance the range 
of key performance indicators we use to 
track performance internally and increase 
internal transparency and reporting.
The LOPC metrics included in this report 
are based on the EIC/GPA ESG Reporting 
Template (see page 3), which defines 
a hydrocarbon release as “a release of 
liquid materials containing hydrocarbons 
to the ground or water from facilities and 
pipelines outside of sized secondary 
containment that stays onsite or migrates 
offsite that is greater than five barrels.”
In 2020, we had no spills over five barrels 
outside of secondary containment. We 
attribute this achievement to a concerted 
effort to update infrastructure and continued 
use of robust preventive maintenance.020406080100
01234
2020 2019 2018Hydrocarbon Spills
 
14
3881
■  Volume of Spills    Number of Spills
   Volume of Spills (Barrels)
Number of Spills22ENVIRONMENT
AIR EMISSIONS
The normal operation of fuel combustion 
and processing equipment as well as flaring 
activities results in air emissions of nitrogen 
oxides (NOx), sulfur dioxide (SO2) and 
volatile organic compounds (VOCs). Fugitive 
emissions sources, including compressor 
seals, pneumatic pumps and valves, can 
also contribute to VOC emissions.
Key Performance Metrics
Emissions of NOX, SO2 and VOC emissions 
have been steadily decreasing from our 
operations, with a 57% reduction between 
2018 and 2020.
We observed a 19% decrease in NOX 
emissions and a 28% decrease in our VOC 
emissions from 2019 to 2020. This was due 
in part to decreased consumption of fuel 
gas at compressor stations by utilizing newer 
electric compressors, decreased flaring and 
increased usage of cleaner burning gas 
powered engines at the Tioga Gas Plant.
SO2 emissions decreased by 87% in 
2020 compared with 2019, mainly due 
to the phaseout of processing legacy 
gas containing hydrogen sulfide and 
decommissioning of the sulfur recovery unit 
(SRU) at the Tioga Gas Plant. This legacy gas, which was previously processed 
through the SRU, has been significantly 
reduced and is now incinerated.
Moving forward, we expect that our 
continued efforts to improve equipment 
at the Tioga Gas Plant and update our 
infrastructure will support additional 
reductions in emissions.
WATER MANAGEMENT
Hess Midstream’s use and discharge 
of water is very limited and is primarily 
associated with hydrostatic testing of 
pipelines and other facilities and cooling 
water. Nonetheless, reducing the potential 
for impacts to freshwater resources 
remains important to Hess Midstream and 
our stakeholders. In the Bakken region, 
we have developed our water use strategy 
based on engagement and feedback 
with local stakeholders, including local 
governmental authorities.
In 2020, Hess updated its stressed water 
resource analysis in the Bakken region 
using the World Resources Institute’s 
Aqueduct tool and confirmed that Hess 
Midstream is not operating in a high 
baseline water stress area. While the 
potential for us to impact fresh water is 
not significant, we remain committed 
to responsible water management. 
See pages 55–57 of the Hess 2020 
Sustainability Report for further detail  
on the enterprise level approach to  
water management.Produced Water Disposal
Hess Midstream operates a produced 
water gathering and disposal system 
that helps improve safety and operational 
efficiency and allows us to better manage 
and mitigate environmental impacts. 
In 2019, we purchased approximately 
75 miles of water gathering pipelines in 
addition to pipelines already owned and 
began building new produced water 
disposal facilities to support the growth 
of the Bakken asset. This allowed us to 
move water by pipeline in place of trucks, 
significantly reducing the risk of spills and 
reducing truck related air emissions.
This growth continued into 2020, when  
we achieved the following: 
• Transported more than 50 million barrels 
of produced water
• Piped 70% of Hess’ produced water 
by the end of 2020, a more than 40% 
increase year on year
• Tied more than 820 Hess wells into 
the approximate 270 miles of Hess 
Midstream water gathering pipelines
• Injected 8.7 million barrels of produced 
water into produced water disposal 
facilities operated by Hess Midstream
Hess Midstream continues to innovate 
and pursue the optimum use of the 
pipelines and produced water disposal 
facilities to safely and effectively dispose of 
the produced water from well operations.0500100015002000
2020 2019 20181,642
7199431,247
162668710
511Emissions (Tonnes)888Air Emissions  
NO x SO 2 VOC
Water Gathering Operations, North Dakota2020 HESS MIDSTREAM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   23PERFORMANCE DATA
This table shows our publicly reported performance data for Hess Midstream. Additionally, we have reported our performance metrics  
in alignment with the Energy Infrastructure Council (EIC) and GPA Midstream Association ESG Reporting Template, which can be found  
at hessmidstream.gcs-web.com/sustainability-report.
Our U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Form 10-K filing, which can be found at hessmidstream.gcs-web.com/investors/ 
sec-filings, provides more detail on our financial and governance information.
UNITS 2020 2019 2018
Business Performance and Selected Economic Metrics
Sales and other operating revenue $ Million 1,092 848 713
Net income $ Million 485 318 326
Total assets $ Million 3,375 3,278 2,991
Total liabilities $ Million 2,049 1,946 1,115
Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation & amortization (EBITDA)
 $ Million 749 551 505
Debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio # 2.6 3.2 2.0
Capital expenditure $ Million 253 317 271
Activity
Gross throughput BOE 110,092,758 104,779,325 76,454,889
Mile of pipeline Mile 1,826 1,785 1,688
Number of reportable pipeline incidents # 0 0 0
Natural gas pipelines inspected % 23 0 0
Hazardous liquid pipelines inspected % 16 36 10
Governance *
Directors that are female % 0 0 -
Corporate officers (Vice President and above) that are female % 20 20 -
Directors from minority groups◊% 0 0 -
Corporate officers (Vice President and above) from minority groups◊% 0 0 -
Directors under the age of 50 % 10 10 -
Independent directors % 30 30 -
Directors receiving less than 80% votes cast in favor when running 
unopposed in last five years# 0 0 -
% of the Limited Partnership board elected by unit holders % 100 (Sponsors) 100 (Sponsors) -
Safety Performance §¤
Employee total recordable incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.92 0.00 1.12
Contractor total recordable incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.74 0.17 0.72
Employee days away, restricted or transferred Per 200,000 hours worked 0.46 0.00 0.00
Contractor days away, restricted or transferred Per 200,000 hours worked 0.37 0.17 0.18
Employee lost time incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.46 0.00 0.00
Contractor lost time incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.12 0.17 0.18
Fatalities – workforce (employees + contractors) # 0 0 0
Number of process safety events (Tier 1) # 0 4 0
Number of process safety events (Tier 2) # 9 5 1
  Adjusted EBITDA and Debt to Adjusted EBITDA are non-GAAP (U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) measures and should not be considered an alternative  
to, or more meaningful than, other measures reported in accordance with GAAP. For definitions and reconciliations of Adjusted EBITDA and Debt to Adjusted EBITDA  
to their most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 
Condition and Results of Operations in 2020 Hess Midstream 10-K report.
*  Due to restructuring of our Board of Directors in 2019, governance data requested by the EIC has been reported for 2019 and 2020 only. See page 5 of our 2020 SEC Form 
10-K for further detail.
◊  Minority status is as defined by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.    
§  The rates reflected above for incidents and illness do not account for COVID-19 cases that were determined to be work related on the basis that an alternative explanation  
for how an employee contracted the disease could not be identified. While not included in our rates, these cases are recorded on Hess’ OSHA Injury and Illness logs, 
where applicable.
¤  While Hess Midstream does not have any direct employees, we are able to report Hess Midstream specific safety incident data safety because incidents are attributed  
to Hess midstream facilities and locations in Hess’ incident reporting system.24
UNITS 2020 2019 2018
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions and Flaring †
Total GHG emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) (location based) Tonnes CO2e 811,560 899,860 784,693
Scope 1 GHG emissions Tonnes CO2e 491,854 601,432 537,507
Scope 1 carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions Tonnes CO2e 462,488 566,892 502,874
Scope 1 methane emissions Tonnes CO2e 29,150 34,282 34,386
Scope 2 GHG emissions (location based) Tonnes CO2e 319,706 298,428 247,186
Scope 2 GHG emissions (market based) Tonnes CO2e 78,057 74,608 218,610
Total GHG emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) (market based) Tonnes CO2e 569,911 676,040 756,117
GHG emissions intensity (market based) Kg CO2e/BOE 5.18 6.45 9.89
GHG emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) intensity per billion BOE-mile Tonnes CO2e/Billion BOE-Mile 4,037 4,811 6,080
GHG emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) intensity per EBITDA Tonnes CO2e/$ Million 1,084 1,634 1,554
Scope 1 methane emissions intensity from gathering and boosting ¥ % 0.091 0.127 0.196
Scope 1 methane emissions intensity from processing ¥ % 0.031 0.054 0.045
Flaring Thousand SCF 2,540,090 3,524,883 2,795,407
Flaring intensity SCF/BOE 23.07 33.64 36.56
Energy Use
Operated direct energy use Thousand gigajoules 4,705 4,959 5,192
Operated indirect energy use (gross) Thousand gigajoules 5,880 4,862 4,032
Net purchased electricity by primary energy source* Thousand MWh 637 527 437
Green-e certified renewable energy certificates (RECs) Thousand MWh 481 395 50
% of energy used (direct and indirect) that is renewable energy
 % 56 50 17
Environment
Number of hydrocarbon liquid releases** # 0 4 1
Volume of hydrocarbon liquid releases** Barrels 0 81 38
Hydrocarbon liquid releases intensity per mile of pipeline** Barrels/Mile 0 0.05 0.02
Nitrogen oxides emissions Tonnes 719 888 1,642
Sulfur dioxide emissions Tonnes 162 1,247 943
Volatile organic compounds emissions Tonnes 511 710 668
Environmental fines and penalties – operated $ 0 0 9,000
 † All GHG emissions and flaring values are reported on an operated basis.
 ¥ Based on ONE Future methodology.
 * Third party power generation.
 
 This percentage is the sum of our purchased electricity generated from renewable sources and purchased RECs divided by our total energy use (direct and indirect).
** Includes releases that are both beyond secondary containment and greater than five barrels.PERFORMANCE DATA
Terminaling and Export Operations, North DakotaDesign: incdesign.comThis report contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning 
of U.S. federal securities laws. Words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” 
“expect,” “forecast,” “guidance,” “could,” “may,” “should,” “would,” 
“believe,” “intend,” “project,” “plan,” “predict,” “will,” “target” and 
similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which are 
not historical in nature. Our forward-looking statements may include, 
without limitation: our future financial and operational results; our 
business strategy; our industry; our expected revenues; our future 
profitability; our maintenance or expansion projects and the expected 
timing, completion and benefits of our projects; our projected budget 
and capital expenditures and the impact of such expenditures on our 
performance; future economic and market conditions in the oil and 
gas industry; and information about sustainability goals and targets  
and planned social, safety and environmental policies, programs  
and initiatives. 
Forward-looking statements are based on our current understanding, 
assessments, estimates and projections of relevant factors and 
reasonable assumptions about the future. Forward-looking statements 
are subject to certain known and unknown risks and uncertainties 
that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical 
experience and our current projections or expectations of future 
results expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. 
The following important factors could cause actual results to differ 
materially from those in our forward-looking statements: the direct and 
indirect effects of the COVID-19 global pandemic and other public 
health developments on our business and those of our business 
partners, suppliers and customers, including Hess; the ability of 
Hess and other parties to satisfy their obligations to us, including 
Hess’ ability to meet its drilling and development plans on a timely 
basis or at all and the operation of joint ventures that we may not 
control; our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to pay current and 
expected levels of distributions; reductions in the volumes of crude 
oil, natural gas, NGLs and produced water we gather, process, 
terminal or store; fluctuations in the prices and demand for crude oil, 
natural gas and NGLs, including as a result of the COVID-19 global 
pandemic; changes in global economic conditions and the effects 
of a global economic downturn on our business and the business of SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
our suppliers, customers, business partners and lenders; our ability 
to comply with government regulations or make capital expenditures 
required to maintain compliance, including our ability to obtain or 
maintain permits necessary for capital projects in a timely manner, if at 
all, or the revocation or modification of existing permits; our ability to 
successfully identify, evaluate and timely execute our capital projects, 
investment opportunities and growth strategies, whether through 
organic growth or acquisitions; costs or liabilities associated with federal, 
state and local laws, regulations and governmental actions applicable 
to our business, including legislation and regulatory initiatives relating 
to environmental protection and safety, such as spills, releases, 
pipeline integrity and measures to limit greenhouse gas emissions; our 
ability to comply with the terms of our credit facility, indebtedness and 
other financing arrangements, which, if accelerated, we may not be 
able to repay; reduced demand for our midstream services, including 
the impact of weather or the availability of the competing third-party 
midstream gathering, processing and transportation operations; 
potential disruption or interruption of our business due to catastrophic 
events, such as accidents, severe weather events, labor disputes, 
information technology failures, constraints or disruptions and cyber-
attacks; any limitations on our ability to access debt or capital markets 
on terms that we deem acceptable, including as a result of weakness 
in the oil and gas industry or negative outcomes within commodity 
and financial markets; liability resulting from litigation; and other factors 
described in Item 1A—Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form  
10-K, as well as any additional risks described in our other filings with 
the Securities and Exchange Commission.
As and when made, we believe that our forward-looking statements 
are reasonable. However, given these risks and uncertainties, caution 
should be taken not to place undue reliance on any such forward-
looking statements since such statements speak only as of the date 
when made and there can be no assurance that such forward-looking 
statements will occur and actual results may differ materially from 
those contained in any forward-looking statement we make. Except 
as required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update 
or revise any forward-looking statements, whether because of new 
information, future events or otherwise.
REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION 
We invite your questions, comments and suggestions regarding this 
report. To send us your questions or comments, or to request more 
information or additional copies of this report, please contact:
President and Chief Operating Officer  
Hess Midstream  
1501 McKinney Street  
Houston, TX 77010
You can also send us an email at hessmidstream@hess.com .