CORPORATECITIZENSHIP REPORT
2020FORWARD LOOKING 
STATEMENTS
This presentation contains certain statements that may be deemed 
“forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements, other than statements 
of historical fact, that address activities, events or developments that we 
or our management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates 
will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. Such 
statements are based upon certain assumptions and assessments made 
by our management in light of their experience and their perception of 
historical trends, current economic and industry conditions, expected 
future developments and other factors they believe to be appropriate. 
The forward-looking statements included in this report are also subject 
to a number of material risks and uncertainties, including but not limited 
to economic, competitive, governmental, technological, and COVID-19 
public health factors affecting our operations, markets, products, services 
and prices. Such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future 
performance, and actual results, and other developments, including the 
potential impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, and business decisions 
may differ from those envisaged by such forward-looking statements.
The data presented in this report has been collected, reviewed and 
internally validated and represents the most complete and accurate 
information that we have at the time of publication. With the exception 
of our greenhouse gas reporting data, this data has not been subject to 
external review or assurance.LETTER FROM OUR 
CHAIRMAN AND CEO
At Honeywell, we believe a robust environmental, social, and 
governance (ESG) framework enables our long-term success. In 
2020, as with virtually every other global organization, we have faced 
unprecedented disruption to our businesses and operations due 
to the COVID-19 pandemic. Yet at no time has our commitment to 
our ESG principles wavered. To the contrary, I believe our perpetual 
drive to strengthen the sustainability of our business and uphold the 
highest ethical standards has only fortified our company’s resilience.
Honeywell’s 2020 Corporate Citizenship Report provides an updated 
look at our ESG performance. It also details how we have responded to 
the global pandemic and the renewed societal call for racial equality 
throughout the United States and the world. We review our ongoing 
work to reduce the environmental impact of a broad range of industries 
as well as our own carbon footprint. We discuss our emphasis on 
Inclusion and Diversity as a Foundational Principle, and we explain the 
continuous refinement of our corporate governance model. I’m proud 
of how far we’ve come in a wide range of areas that fall under the ESG 
umbrella and energized by what we can accomplish in the future. 
Honeywell embraces its mission to transform itself into the world’s 
premier software-industrial company, one with leading technologies 
that power economic growth, improve lives and communities, and 
create opportunity through innovation. We believe “The Future 
is What We Make It,” and despite the extraordinary challenges 
confronting the world, the future remains exceedingly bright.
Darius Adamczyk
Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerLETTER FROM OUR  
LEAD DIRECTOR 
In today’s business environment, a company’s Board of Directors 
must work with the executive team to oversee and shape the 
organization’s environmental, social, and governance (ESG) 
performance. Honeywell’s Board of Directors and Corporate 
Governance and Responsibility Committee (CGRC) strive 
to ensure the company is well-positioned to navigate ESG 
complexities and challenges and execute its strategic vision.
I have tremendous confidence in our Board’s ability to help guide 
Honeywell through the ever-evolving ESG landscape, including 
the recent effects of the COVID-19 global pandemic. Among the 
topics Board members have reviewed with company leaders over the 
last year: business continuity and pandemic response; innovative 
solutions for health and safety in response to COVID-19; employee 
health and safety; integrity and compliance; workforce inclusion and 
diversity; political engagement; maintaining a sustainable portfolio; 
workplace respect; and environmental remediation and stewardship. 
We can attest that the company is committed to making meaningful, 
measurable progress on these and other vital ESG issues.
On behalf of Honeywell’s Board, thank you for taking the time to learn 
about the company’s progress and commitments across the ESG 
dimensions represented in the 2020 Corporate Citizenship Report.
D. Scott Davis
Lead Director
TABLE OF CONTENTS
HONEYWELL OVERVIEW
We Make the Future Safer and More Sustainable
OUR TECHNOLOGIES
Aerospace
Honeywell Building Technologies 
Performance Materials and Technologies
Safety and Productivity Solutions
Honeywell Connected Enterprise
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Integrity and Compliance 
Human Rights
Data Protection
Board of Directors and Oversight 
Supply Chain 
Enterprise Risk Management
Political Contributions and Trade Associations
OUR CULTURE
Inclusion and Diversity
Racial Equality and Action
Talent Acquisition and DevelopmentHEALTH, SAFETY, AND THE ENVIRONMENT
Our Results
Health and Safety
The Environment 
Responsible Remediation 
Product Stewardship
SOCIAL GOOD
Humanitarian Relief
In the Community
Responding to the COVID-19 Pandemic
SASB / TCFD INFORMATIONHONEYWELL OVERVIEW
Honeywell invents and commercializes 
technologies that address some of the world’s 
most critical challenges around energy, safety, 
security, productivity, and urbanization.  
As a software-industrial company, we are uniquely positioned to blend 
physical products with software to serve customers worldwide with aerospace 
products and services; energy-efficient products and solutions for businesses; 
specialty chemicals; electronic and advanced materials; process technology 
for fuels, petrochemical and energy customers; and connected solutions 
to improve productivity, workplace safety, and asset performance.
While our technologies keep cities working, planes flying, factories running, 
and workers safe, our solutions are also addressing the important need 
for greater health and safety, sustainability practices, and integrity. We 
apply this lens to everything we do – and every solution we invent.
2020 challenged the world in new ways as the COVID-19 pandemic spread. The 
severity and urgency of the situation tapped Honeywell’s passion for solving 
critical challenges. With unprecedented speed, our technologies pivoted to provide 
new safety solutions that helped businesses, entertainment, sports, and schools 
open back up, and are providing the reassurance people need to get back to life.
WE MAKE THE FUTURE SAFER AND MORE SUSTAINABLE
Honeywell is uniquely positioned to shape a safer and more sustainable future. 
We continue to invent and develop technologies that provide our customers 
with adaptable and efficient solutions to their safety, energy, and environmental 
needs. In fact, we focus approximately 50% of our new product research and 
development on solutions that improve environmental and social outcomes 
for our customers. Here are some of the challenges our technologies address: 
SUSTAINABLE 
REFRIGERANTS AND 
AEROSOLS
We make low-global-
warming molecules for 
refrigerants, blowing agents, 
aerosols, and solvents.
BUILDING SAFETY
We improve building safety 
with advancements in 
sensing and control systems 
for faster detection of issues 
and better insights through 
remote diagnostics.SUSTAINABLE 
BUILDINGS
We make control systems for 
every type of building that 
balance energy, comfort, 
health, and safety.
SUSTAINABLE 
ELECTRIC POWER
We develop control systems 
and software that enable 
autonomous operations, 
reduce grid complexity, 
and identify opportunities 
for energy conservation.AVIATION SAFETY
We make flying safer 
by providing pilots and 
ground control with 
real-time information 
and tools to enhance 
situational awareness.
SUSTAINABLE 
AVIATION
We develop flight systems 
and software that can 
make long-range air travel 
more cost-efficient with a 
reduced carbon footprint.PLANT AND 
PERSONNEL SAFETY
We improve safety, 
environmental performance, 
and efficiency across 
industries by reducing 
the frequency and 
impact of incidents.
SUSTAINABLE FREIGHT
We make solutions that 
can deliver goods around 
the world more efficiently 
and reduce the carbon 
footprint of road, rail, 
and shipping freight.WORKER SAFETY
We protect workers in 
construction, manufacturing, 
health care, and emergency 
response during potentially 
hazardous situations 
with lightweight and 
comfortable safety gear.
SUSTAINABLE HEATING 
AND COOKING
We make products and 
software that can leverage 
hydrogen to provide a 
clean-burning, carbon-
free fuel for cooking, home 
heating, and industry.OUR TECHNOLOGIES
AEROSPACE
Honeywell Aerospace products and services are found on virtually 
every commercial, military, and space aircraft. We build aircraft engines, 
cockpit and cabin electronics, wireless connectivity systems, mechanical 
components, and more, and connect many of them via our high-speed Wi-Fi 
offerings. Our solutions create more fuel-efficient and better-maintained 
aircraft, more direct and on-time flights, and safer skies and airports.
COVID-19 RESPONSE
We have intensified our focus on solutions that help make 
aircraft cleaner and safer. Honeywell’s UV Cabin System reduces 
tested viruses and bacteria on targeted surfaces and can be 
applied within an aircraft cabin in less than 10 minutes.SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION
• Honeywell’s IntuVue Weather Radar System gives business 
aviation and helicopter pilots the clear and timely information 
they need to make safer, faster, and more informed decisions 
before flying in bad weather and challenging environments.
• In 2020, Honeywell Aerospace announced the formation of the Unmanned 
Aerial Systems business, which leverages our technology, software, 
services, and experience in autonomous aviation. Our global reach, broad 
range of products and services, and deep relationships with key original 
equipment manufacturers and operators make us a strong contender to 
participate in the creation, development, and support of these vehicles.
• The Honeywell Enhanced Ground Proximity Warning System reduces 
the risk of controlled flight into terrain by providing flight crews with 
timely, accurate information about terrain and obstacles in the area, 
boosting situational awareness to potentially prevent accidents.
• Honeywell’s Next Generation Flight Management System optimizes 
air traffic management by delivering improved fuel efficiency, lower 
direct operating costs, reduced pilot workload, and improved safety.HONEYWELL BUILDING TECHNOLOGIES
Honeywell Building Technologies is transforming the way buildings 
operate to help improve their inhabitants' quality of life. Our smart 
building solutions are in more than 10 million structures worldwide 
to integrate comfort, security, safety, and energy efficiency into easy-
to-manage systems that drive positive results for our customers. 
We offer industry-leading fire and life safety products that improve 
responses to the most critical situations. Our integrated security systems 
provide the earliest detection, enable the fastest response, centralize 
decision-making, and make them easy to manage from anywhere.COVID-19 RESPONSE
By integrating air quality, safety, and security technologies with 
advanced analytics, Honeywell’s Healthy Buildings solutions are 
designed to help building owners support business continuity by 
monitoring both the building environment and building occupants’ 
behaviors. Honeywell’s solutions provide building owners with 
more control over critical health, safety, and security factors to 
encourage sustained compliance with changing guidelines and 
provide transparency into a building’s health status to its occupants.SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION
• Our building management systems can help reduce energy 
consumption up to 30% by managing HVAC and lighting systems in an 
integrated manner.
• Honeywell Forge Energy Optimization, the first autonomous building 
solution focused on decreasing energy consumption, can deliver 
double-digit energy savings and decrease a building’s carbon footprint 
when added to any existing standard building management system. 
• As a leader in energy-saving technology and services, Honeywell 
has completed approximately 6,000 guaranteed efficiency projects 
around the world, including upgrades at more than 150 U.S. 
government facilities and campuses. Combined, this work will decrease 
customers’ energy and operating costs by an estimated $6 billion.
• Our configurable, cyber-secure building solutions help optimize 
our customers’ investments and reduce expenses. From advanced 
detection systems to predictive maintenance to remote operations, 
we’re helping create the building of the future and delivering 
sustainable solutions that aid in preserving operational continuity.
PERFORMANCE MATERIALS 
AND TECHNOLOGIES
Honeywell’s Performance Materials and Technologies business 
is a global leader in developing and manufacturing high-quality 
performance chemicals and materials, process technologies, and 
automation solutions. We understand how to solve some of the 
world’s biggest challenges through innovative technology.
COVID-19 RESPONSE
In the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic, the need is greater than 
ever for vials that can store potentially life-saving vaccines. Aclar 
Edge™ is an innovative pharmaceutical packaging solution that 
serves as an alternative to glass packaging for vaccines and 
other liquid medications. Glass bottles pose many challenges to 
the pharmaceutical industry as they are susceptible to cracking 
and breaking, inorganic leachables, and glass particulates. Aclar 
Edge bottles and vials for oral liquids and sterile injectables is 
a novel technology that combats these issues and can improve 
drug product stability, purity, and ultimately patient safety.
SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION
• Honeywell’s Solstice® refrigerants, blowing agents, propellants, and 
solvents provide low- and reduced-global-warming-potential (GWP) 
alternatives to flammable hydrocarbons and traditional high-GWP 
hydrofluorocarbons. Solstice molecules have 99.9% lower global 
warming potential than the products they replace. Global adoption 
of Solstice products has helped avoid the release of more than 
175 million metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e).
• Honeywell’s Ecofining™ process technology converts renewable 
feedstocks into Honeywell Green Diesel™ and Honeywell Green Jet 
Fuel™, which are chemically identical to fuels produced from petroleum.
• Our Rapid Thermal Processing™ technology uses a fast thermal-conversion 
process to turn solid biomass into a light, clean-burning liquid biofuel 
that can be used in place of fossil fuels in industrial fuel oil applications.
• Honeywell offers safe, compliant, and efficient thermal processes for 
commercial and industrial-scale customers, including both  
hydrogen-ready and hydrogen-capable burners designed for customers 
looking to decarbonize. 
• Experion® Process Knowledge System, our pioneering automation and 
control solution, enables customers in a range of industries to operate 
more efficiently. Those with renewable energy assets leverage Honeywell 
technology to reduce their cost of electricity and optimize their operations.SAFETY AND PRODUCTIVITY SOLUTIONS
Each year, more than a half billion workers worldwide rely on our 
protective equipment, advanced gas detectors, scanners and mobility 
devices, sensors, and automated material handling equipment to 
keep them and their workplaces operating safely, efficiently, and more 
productively. Honeywell manufactures a broad range of personal 
protective equipment (PPE), including head, hearing, and eye protection 
products; fall protection gear; gloves; boots; and firefighter turnout gear.
COVID-19 RESPONSE
To address the growing demand for protective masks during 
the COVID-19 outbreak, Honeywell quickly ramped up 
production to make millions of N95 masks and other PPE at 
multiple production facilities, including in the United States, 
Mexico, United Kingdom, United Arab Emirates, and India. 
In addition, Honeywell designed its Operational Intelligence 
software platform to help workers in warehouse and retail 
environments return to work in a safer manner during the 
pandemic. Bluetooth-enabled sensors embedded in devices can 
track social distancing and notify frontline workers when they get 
too close to another enabled device, while software systems can 
monitor when employees check in and out to help organizations 
better manage site and equipment cleaning schedules.SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION
• Our advanced fixed, portable, and personal gas detectors 
help warn workers about potentially dangerous situations 
by sensing or even ultrasonically “hearing” leaks. 
• In 2020, Honeywell rapidly expanded production of N95 respirators 
to help meet surging demand for masks needed to protect 
front-line health care workers and others from COVID-19. 
• Honeywell technology helps safeguard patient health with sensors and 
mobility for critical medical applications. Our sensors and switches are 
essential parts of medical equipment, including ventilators, oxygen 
concentrators, patient monitoring systems, and laboratory equipment, 
helping ensure accuracy, reliability, and stability in life-critical situations. 
• Our Connected Distribution Center and smart logistics 
solutions help shorten supply times, enable more efficient 
e-commerce, and optimize final delivery routes.HONEYWELL CONNECTED ENTERPRISE
Honeywell’s Enterprise Performance Management software, known 
as Honeywell Forge, allows critical infrastructure operators to collect, 
analyze, and act on data from their operations. Honeywell Forge 
enables the conversion of massive quantities of data from physical 
assets, processes, and people into intuitive, actionable insights. In 
turn, this helps organizations optimize operational efficiency, save 
money, and identify opportunities to adopt more sustainable practices. 
Honeywell Forge also uses best practices in cybersecurity to enhance 
the availability, safety, and reliability of connected systems.
COVID-19 RESPONSE
Honeywell’s Medical Team partnered with the Honeywell Connected 
Enterprise team to develop a predictive analytics model to provide  
real-time data and insights as the COVID-19 pandemic evolved 
throughout 2020. Using Honeywell Forge technology, the model 
analyzed data from multiple inputs and sources, including 
infection rates, deaths, and regulations or restrictions from areas 
where Honeywell employees work. This advanced and predictive 
analysis served as the foundation for key decisions Honeywell 
made to help keep employees safe and minimize business impacts 
caused by COVID-19.SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION
• In early 2020, the company launched Honeywell Forge Energy 
Optimization, a cloud-based, machine learning solution that 
continuously studies a building’s energy consumption patterns and 
automatically adjusts to optimal energy saving settings. During a pilot 
at a university in the United Arab Emirates, this solution demonstrated 
an initial 10% energy savings. Honeywell Forge Energy Optimization 
can deliver double-digit energy savings, decrease a building’s carbon 
footprint, and be implemented without significant upfront capital 
expenses or changes to a building’s current operational processes.
• In mid-2020, Honeywell and SAP teamed up to create a joint cloud-based 
solution based on Honeywell Forge and SAP® Cloud Platform. The first 
application for this combination: the commercial real estate industry, which 
stands to benefit from optimized building performance, lower carbon 
emissions, reduced energy costs, and an enhanced occupant experience.
• Honeywell Forge’s cloud software analytics can optimize aircraft 
operations and routing, up to 2% of fuel savings per flight. By the summer 
of 2020, Honeywell Forge surpassed the milestone of being implemented 
in 10,000 aircraft worldwide.CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Honeywell is committed to strong corporate governance 
policies, practices, and procedures designed to ensure 
that the Board effectively exercises its oversight role.
Our Board of Directors oversees management performance on behalf of our shareowners to ensure 
that the long-term interests of our shareowners are being served, to monitor adherence to Honeywell 
standards and policies, and to promote the exercise of responsible corporate citizenship. 
Our Board values and considers the feedback we receive from our shareowners, and 
taking into account their perspectives, we have implemented a number of actions over 
the last several years to increase shareowner rights, enhance the Board’s structure, 
and augment our commitment to sustainability and corporate responsibility.
Honeywell earned recognition 
as one of the World’s Most 
Ethical Companies in 2020 by 
Ethisphere, a global leader in 
corporate ethics and compliance. 
This is the fifth time Honeywell 
has received this designation.INTEGRITY AND COMPLIANCE
Our Code of Business Conduct  sets a baseline of requirements that 
defines how we treat our employees, customers, suppliers, shareholders, 
and communities around the world. It also empowers employees to 
recognize and report integrity and compliance issues, and to contribute 
toward upholding a work environment where everyone is treated ethically 
and with respect.
The Code affirms our commitment to:
• Abide by the law in all jurisdictions where we do business
• Recognize the dignity of each individual
• Respect each employee
• Prevent harassment and workplace violence, and maintain 
zero tolerance for discrimination of any kind
• Provide compensation and benefits that are competitive
• Promote self-development through training 
that broadens work-related skills
• Value diversity of perspectives and ideas
All employees are required to complete annual Code of Business Conduct 
training and certify, where permitted by law, their compliance with its tenets. 
Key Elements of Our Integrity and Compliance Program
Honeywell’s dedicated Integrity and Compliance organization is led by 
the Chief Compliance Officer, who also serves as Corporate Secretary 
and has direct access to the Board of Directors. The Board’s Corporate 
Governance and Responsibility Committee (CGRC) regularly reviews the 
company’s integrity and compliance program, policies and scorecard, 
and the Audit Committee receives detailed investigation reports on a 
quarterly basis to monitor trends, ensure that allegations are investigated 
promptly, and as necessary, confirm that appropriate disciplinary 
measures are taken in a timely fashion. Honeywell provides comprehensive 
training on key compliance topics and develops training scenarios in 
over 20 languages, offers mechanisms for employees and third parties 
to report concerns (including doing so anonymously) under a strict 
non-retaliation policy, and ensures timely and fair investigations. Additional elements of our program:
• The ACCESS Integrity Helpline is a 24-hour, multilingual service operated 
by an independent third-party provider that is open to all stakeholders. 
Honeywell investigates 100% of allegations reported through the Helpline 
or brought to the Integrity and Compliance Office. Employees found in 
violation of our Code of Business Conduct are subject to discipline, up to 
and including termination, in compliance with all local requirements.
• Integrity and Compliance Councils operate at the 
corporate, business unit, and regional levels.
• An Ethics Ambassador Program empowers business leaders around the 
globe to champion integrity and compliance topics with employees.
• We deliver mandatory companywide training for all employees in 
health, safety, and environmental responsibility; non-discrimination; 
conflicts of interest; anti-corruption; and trade controls.
• We design robust and frequent communications to engage all levels 
of the company on the criticality of integrity and compliance.
• We invest in essential compliance tools that offer real-
time visibility into business transactions.
• We station global compliance teams in regions at 
elevated risk for compliance concerns.
• We conduct frequent self-assessments, independent internal 
and third-party reviews, and audits of compliance risk areas.
• Robust integration processes ensure newly acquired companies 
understand and comply with Honeywell principles, policies, and 
procedures.HUMAN RIGHTS
Honeywell's Code of Business Conduct and Supplier Code of 
Business Conduct complement other vital company policies and 
commitments, such as our Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement, 
Equal Employment Opportunity Policy, and explicit zero-tolerance 
policy prohibiting racial discrimination. (See our website  for more 
information.) Together, these policies address a broad range of human 
rights and workplace issues to promote fairness, ethical behavior, 
and integrity. Honeywell's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
regularly endorses and reinforces these policies and commitments 
through various internal and external communication channels.
DATA PROTECTION
We have built a comprehensive global data privacy program based upon 
our strong commitment to protect the personal data of employees, 
customers, suppliers, and other stakeholders. We have adjusted our 
documentation, systems, and practices in accordance with the European 
Union’s General Data Protection Regulation’s standards. This is in line 
with our privacy program’s continuous improvement approach to evolve 
with the needs of our business and global regulatory developments.
Honeywell’s privacy policy establishes uniform standards for how 
the company processes personal data. The policy promotes best-
practice data privacy principles that are commonly recognized 
around the world. To the extent that applicable law or contractual 
provisions impose stricter requirements than our policy, Honeywell 
complies with the more restrictive law or contractual provisions. 
Finally, Honeywell has implemented robust security incident response 
procedures to quickly respond to any potential security threats.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND OVERSIGHT
In addition to ensuring that our Board of Directors possesses the 
requisite skills and qualifications for service, the Board’s Corporate 
Governance and Responsibility Committee (CGRC) places an emphasis 
on ensuring that Board members demonstrate the right leadership traits, 
personality, work ethic, independence, and diversity of background to 
align with our performance culture and long-term strategic vision. 
While Honeywell’s Corporate Governance Guidelines do not prescribe a 
diversity policy or standards, as a matter of practice we are committed 
to enhancing both the diversity of the Board itself and the perspectives 
and values that are discussed in Board and committee meetings.
Board members participate in director refreshment and self-evaluation 
processes to ensure their collective skills and perspectives align 
with Honeywell’s evolving commercial strategy. This transformative 
shift in the company’s long-term strategy is designed to establish 
Honeywell as the premier software-industrial company.The Board’s proactive oversight extends to Environmental 
and Social (E&S) initiatives in three principal ways:
• The CGRC has primary jurisdiction for managing risks and opportunities 
associated with E&S, meeting at least once a year with the Corporate 
Vice President for Health, Safety, Environment, Product Stewardship 
and Sustainability; the Senior Vice President for Government Relations; 
the Chief Human Resources Officer; and other leaders with E&S 
accountability to present and discuss risks and opportunities.
• The Audit Committee and broader Board engages with E&S risk areas 
through a comprehensive Enterprise Risk Management program.
• The Board engages with management on key E&S issues and initiatives. 
In the last year, topics reviewed included COVID-19 impact and response, 
employee diversity, sexual harassment compliance, safety, business 
continuity, political engagement, and environmental matters.
Honeywell maintains a robust shareowner engagement program that 
features year-round opportunities for our Board and senior management, 
including our independent lead director and executive officers, to engage in 
dialogue with key stakeholders. Based on this dialogue, we have implemented 
actions over the last several years to increase shareowner rights, enhance 
the Board’s structure, increase transparency, and augment our commitment 
to sustainability and corporate responsibility. Our shareowner engagement 
program has covered topics such as our business strategy, comprehensive 
portfolio review, corporate governance practices, executive compensation 
programs, CEO succession, political lobbying disclosures, inclusion and 
diversity, human capital management, sustainability, and social responsibility.
ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT
The Board uses an Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program as a 
key tool for understanding the range of risks facing Honeywell, as well as 
assessing whether management’s processes, procedures, and practices 
for mitigating those risks are effective. The ERM assessment deployed by 
management is robust, based on both an enterprise-wide “top down” and 
“bottom up” view of commercial, strategic, legal, compliance, cyber, and 
reputational risks, and the strategies that are in place to mitigate those risks.
The Vice President, Audit and the staff of the Corporate Audit Department 
facilitate the ERM program and are primarily responsible for the annual 
assessment, partnering closely with the Risk Governance Council.Chief 
Executive 
OfficerSUPPLY CHAIN
We believe that responsible supply chain management is critical 
to upholding our commitment to integrity and compliance, 
mitigating financial risk, and acting as a good corporate citizen.
Honeywell’s Integrated Supply Chain (ISC) activities are managed by a 
global team of seasoned professionals with expertise in the law, integrity 
and compliance, risk management, procurement, supply management, 
operations management, logistics, and supply chain performance 
optimization. Our management structure ensures we have the necessary 
expertise to support the broad scope of our supply chain operations. 
Supply Chain Integrity: Roles and Responsibilities
Overall responsibility for 
procurement, supplier risk 
monitoring and mitigation, 
supplier social responsibility, 
and supplier adherence 
to the Supplier Code of 
Business ConductOverall responsibility 
for setting Integrity and 
Compliance standards 
for suppliers, including 
the Supplier Code of 
Business ConductOverall responsibility for 
flow-down of legal and 
Honeywell requirements 
to suppliers, including 
setting standardized 
contract language to 
ensure complianceSenior VP and 
Chief Supply 
Chain OfficerSenior VP 
and General 
Counsel
VP and Chief 
Procurement 
Officer
Global Team of ISC SpecialistsVP, Chief 
Compliance 
Officer and 
Corporate 
SecretaryVP and General 
Counsel, 
ISC and 
Procurement
Supplier Code of Business Conduct
Honeywell’s Supplier Code of Business Conduct sets forth Honeywell’s 
commitment to integrity and compliance within its global supply chain. We 
expect all our suppliers to adhere to the Supplier Code and ensure these 
requirements are met within their supply chain. A supplier's commitment to 
the Supplier Code is a key requirement when we make sourcing decisions.
Honeywell expects its suppliers to ensure they:
• Provide their employees with a safe working environment
• Treat their workers with dignity and respect
• Engage in environmentally sound and 
sustainable manufacturing processes
• Comply with all applicable laws
• Foster a culture in which employees and managers 
can communicate openly and raise concerns without 
fear of retaliation, intimidation, or harassment
The Supplier Code is upheld through regular audits of suppliers. When 
a supplier is found to be in violation of any applicable Honeywell 
standard, they are either removed or guided and monitored to achieve 
an acceptable performance level. Significant findings may lead to the 
immediate removal of a supplier from Honeywell’s approved supplier list.Key elements of our Supplier Code include:
• Labor and Human Rights - including fair treatment of employees; no 
child or involuntary labor; minimum wages; subcontractor compliance 
• Health and Safety  - including occupational safety, 
emergency preparedness, and sanitation
• Environmental  - including environmental permits, waste and 
pollution management, labeling and warning requirements, 
and hazardous substance management and reporting
• Integrity and Compliance - including books and recordkeeping, 
business integrity, protection of intellectual property, substance 
abuse, responsible sourcing of minerals, and quality
• Management Systems  - including management accountability, 
risk management, training, standards, audits, and assessments
Supplier Diversity
Honeywell is committed to supporting diversity in everything we do - from 
the talent we hire to the suppliers with whom we work. Our recently-launched 
Supplier Diversity Program supports suppliers in pioneering creative 
solutions, driving innovation, and creating competition in the marketplace.LABOR AND 
HUMAN RIGHTSHEALTH 
AND SAFETYENVIRONMENT INTEGRITY AND 
COMPLIANCEMANAGEMENT 
SYSTEMSSupplier Assessments and Auditing
Honeywell has established standardized policies and processes 
to evaluate suppliers prior to selection, including detailed 
compliance checks and rating assessments encompassing 
supply chain risk management. All new suppliers must pass this 
assessment process prior to contracting with Honeywell.
Additionally, Honeywell uses robust contract terms and conditions 
language to ensure all suppliers meet the applicable legal and regulatory 
requirements and commit to adhere to our strict Supplier Code.Each of our strategic businesses annually select a group of suppliers to 
audit. The audits are prioritized by high-risk categories and include, but are 
not limited to: 
• High-risk industries
• High growth regions
• High-risk regulatory environments 
• Poor regulatory enforcement environments
• Politically complex environments 
Audits are performed by a qualified third party using a 
standardized assessment that incorporates the requirements of 
our Supplier Code. This process includes conducting thorough 
onsite audits and preparing detailed audit reports. 
Corrective action plans are required for any gaps identified in audit results. 
Corrective action plans are assigned an owner who consistently monitors 
progress against agreed upon timelines with the expectation that non-
conformance items will be fully resolved. Significant findings may lead to the 
immediate removal of a supplier from Honeywell’s approved supplier list.  
Examples of significant findings might include:
• Labor and Human Rights - Excessive 
overtime; unpaid hours; improper payroll 
records;  and recruitment discrimination
• Health and Safety – No health permits or health audits; 
blocked, unmarked, or unlighted emergency exits; and 
improper or no personal protective equipment
• Environmental –  Missing or expired permits; hazardous 
waste discharge; and improper chemical storageEmployee Training
Honeywell dedicates significant resources to train its procurement staff 
to better enable them to uphold company standards when sourcing 
material. We have developed robust curricula tailored to specific 
types of jobs. Several training modules are mandatory. In addition to 
deploying training on standard procurement practices, employees 
are also educated on supplier risk management, conflicts of interest, 
governance, and all applicable Honeywell procurement policies.Critical Materials
As a manufacturer of electronic equipment, many of our products 
require the use of critical materials, such as fluorspar, precious metals, 
minor metals, and rare earth materials. We recognize that there is 
inherent risk associated with such materials, including potential supply 
issues, lack of available substitutes, increased global demand driving 
heightened competition, and impacts from geopolitical uncertainty. 
We take a multifaceted approach to risk mitigation to 
ensure product availability, manage price increases, 
and manage supply risk. For example, we:
• Practice hedging, forward-buying, and lock-pricing to ensure 
continued supply and pricing stability of critical materials 
• Monitor geopolitical trends through a tool for universal 
grading of active production suppliers
• Conduct financial risk assessments using Dun & Bradstreet 
• Secure multiple sources for material where possible 
• Recycle critical minerals or rare earth elements 
Conflict Minerals 
Honeywell is committed to the responsible sourcing of tantalum, 
tin, tungsten, and gold (3TG) throughout our global supply chain 
and compliance with the “conflict minerals” disclosure requirements 
implemented by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. 
Each year, we undertake reasonable due diligence to determine if any of 
our products contain 3TG originating in the Democratic Republic of Congo 
and bordering countries. Selected 3TG suppliers participate in an annual 
Conflict Minerals Reporting Template survey conducted by Honeywell 
that asks if they are following ethical practices and using valid sources 
to procure the materials. We then file a public report with the SEC on the 
outcome of the 3TG inquiries and the potential use of 3TG in our products.
POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS 
AND TRADE ASSOCIATIONS
We have a strong team of government relations professionals 
that drives our lobbying programs and initiatives. Our government 
relations organization is led by a Senior Vice President, Global 
Government Relations, who reports directly to the company’s Senior 
Vice President and General Counsel. Members of the Government 
Relations organization work from a global network of offices.
With respect to Board of Directors oversight, our public policy efforts, 
including all lobbying activities, political contributions, and payments to 
trade associations and other tax-exempt organizations are the responsibility 
of the Corporate Governance and Responsibility Committee (CGRC), which 
consists entirely of independent, non-employee directors. In addition, each 
year the Senior Vice President, Global Government Relations, reports to the 
CGRC on trade association memberships and to the full Board on our global 
lobbying and government relations program. The CGRC’s oversight of our 
political activities ensures compliance with applicable law and alignment 
with our policies, strategic priorities, and Code of Business Conduct.
See our disclosure on policy and procedures for political activity, 
contributions, and trade association memberships on our website .
How We Engage 
Engagement in the political process is vital to our success. Our future 
growth depends on forward-thinking legislation and regulation that makes 
society safer and more energy-efficient, and improves public infrastructure. 
We participate in the political process through direct engagement, 
political contributions by our employee-funded Political Action 
Committee (PAC), and involvement in trade groups. We strive to always 
engage responsibly in the political process and to ensure our participation 
is consistent with all applicable laws and regulations, our principles 
of good governance, and our high standards of ethical conduct.Political Contributions
We have not made any political contributions using 
corporate funds since 2009 and have no intention of making 
such political contributions in the near future. 
Any and all contributions we make in support of federal and state political 
candidates are through the non-partisan Honeywell International Political 
Action Committee (HIPAC), which is funded exclusively through voluntary 
contributions from eligible U.S.-based employees. These contributions 
are not reimbursed by Honeywell. HIPAC is subject to oversight by its 
board of directors that includes the Senior Vice President and General 
Counsel and the Senior Vice President, Government Relations.
With respect to tax-exempt organizations, such as those classified as 
a 501(c)(4)s, that can use funds for political purposes, Honeywell's 
participation is typically funded by the PAC. No corporate 
contributions to such 501(c)(4) organizations were made in 2019. 
Any use of corporate funds for political contributions requires 
approval from the company’s Senior Vice President and General 
Counsel. These policies on political contributions are embedded in our 
Corporate Governance Guidelines  and Code of Business Conduct .
Trade Associations
Membership in 501(c)(6) trade associations requires that we pay 
regular dues. Some trade associations use a portion of the membership 
dues for non-deductible state and federal lobbying and political 
expenditures. Trade associations that would receive $50,000 or more 
in membership dues from Honeywell in any fiscal year are subject 
to review and approval by the company's Senior Vice President and 
General Counsel and the Senior Vice President, Global Government 
Relations, and reviewed at least annually with the CGRC.
Honeywell prohibits these organizations from using its contributions for 
any election-related activities at the federal, state, or local levels. This 
includes contributions or expenditures in support of or opposition to 
any candidate for any office, ballot initiative campaign, political party, 
committee or Political Action Committee. Honeywell informs these 
organizations of this policy upon becoming a member and annually 
thereafter. Honeywell does not make additional, non-dues contributions 
to these organizations to support the organization’s political activities.Transparency
Based on feedback from its stakeholders, Honeywell has continued 
to enhance its political engagement disclosures and is now rated by 
the Center for Political Accountability as a “Trendsetter” among first-
tier companies. Our disclosures are available on our website .
When considering what to include in our disclosures, we make every effort 
to be accurate, comprehensive, and detailed. We include explanations of 
our rationale for engaging in the political process, identify top legislative 
and regulatory priorities, and define our governance processes. We 
also address the use of corporate funds for political contributions and 
contributions to tax-exempt organizations that may use funds for political 
purposes. Finally, we supply details regarding our exclusively employee-
funded political action committee, HIPAC, including its disbursements; 
discussion of our trade association memberships; and streamlined 
and direct access to our federal, state and local lobbying reports.
In 2020, we further enhanced our disclosures to include the trade 
associations receiving memberships dues of $50,000 or more from 
Honeywell annually and the corresponding non-deductible portion of 
the dues.
OUR CULTURE
Behind every invention, new technology, 
and next-generation solution at 
Honeywell is a team of people 
committed to shaping the future.  
Our performance culture enables Honeywell to be agile in response 
to the fast-changing needs of our customers and is supported 
by a set of nine Behaviors and three Foundational Principles: 
Integrity and Ethics, Inclusion and Diversity, and Workplace 
Respect. These principles are requirements for employment and 
every employee is expected to support and demonstrate them. HAVE A PASSION 
FOR WINNING
• Beat the competition
• Fearless accountability 
for getting results
BE COMMITTED
• Act like you own this place
• Lead by example and work hardBECOME YOUR 
BEST
• Seek and accept feedback
• Bounce back from 
disappointmentsINSPIRE 
GREATNESS
• Set high expectations
• Achieve things you and your 
team never thought possibleBE COURAGEOUS
• Take on seemingly impossible goals
• Confront problems directly 
and face adversity head on
GO BEYOND
• Over deliver on commitmentsTHINK BIG...THEN 
MAKE IT HAPPEN
• Be willing to re-examine 
almost anything
• Innovate with agilityACT WITH 
URGENCY
• Move with lightning speed
• Use speed as a differentiator
BE A ZEALOT FOR 
GROWTH
• Obsess over growth and customers
• Understand what creates 
value for customers
Honeywell’s 9 Behaviors reflect the bold, entrepreneurial 
spirit of our people and emphasize our goal to operate with 
speed and precision. Through our defined performance 
management process and frequent coaching, we challenge our 
employees to continue developing in each of these areas. 9 BEHAVIORS
INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY
Working at Honeywell requires fully embracing Inclusion and Diversity (I&D) 
and treating all employees with the utmost respect every day.
Our commitment to I&D starts at the top with a Board of Directors that 
is recognized for its diversity. There are two African Americans, four 
women, two Hispanics, and one non-U.S. citizen representing a wide 
range of professional experiences and perspectives. Our Board sets the 
tone for all of Honeywell and takes an active interest in promoting a truly 
diverse workforce that is inclusive of all races, religions, geographies, and 
perspectives. Also, more than half of the company’s executive officers are 
diverse, supporting our evolving business strategy and commitment to I&D.
Honeywell’s governance structure, redesigned and fortified in 2020, 
consists of a global I&D Steering Committee, I&D Councils embedded 
within each of our business groups, and Employee Networks that 
support and empower women, Black, and veteran employees. In 
addition, this governance structure provides a scalable model to expand 
or introduce other networks that further support our workforce.
Our “diversity of slate” requirement plays an important role when we 
source candidates for any open role in Honeywell. We mandate and 
track diverse slates for 100% of our external job requisitions, and 
progress is reported to senior management through diversity scorecard 
reviews. This approach helps us ensure women and people of color are 
represented as we select the best candidate for every open role.Our I&D pillars consist of Talent Acquisition, Talent Management, 
Branding and Communications, Strategic Partnerships, and Business 
Operations. These pillars provide the framework to foster an inclusive culture 
across our businesses and guide our efforts to constantly enhance the 
diversity of our workforce.
The company is driving a range of strategic initiatives that follow from 
its I&D pillars. One example is the new three-year Integrated Pipeline 
Project we launched with the National Society of Black Engineers 
(NSBE) in 2019 to focus on recruiting and retaining Black engineers. 
To date, we have sponsored 18 scholarships through NSBE - a figure 
that will double in 2021. We supported NSBE’s virtual summer camp 
(SEEK), which is focused on getting students across the U.S. excited 
about STEM. We are also partnering with the professional development 
organizations within NSBE and leading multiple workshops.It is highly important that our commitment to I&D manifests itself in the way 
we support our communities. We invest in minorities, women, and veterans, 
in particular, through community partnerships and programs worldwide. 
From helping build a new veterans home at a mental health center in 
Charlotte, North Carolina, to creating opportunities for women in rural 
India to be entrepreneurs through a highly successful clean drinking water 
initiative, the impact of our efforts is felt at both the global and local levels.
RACIAL EQUALITY AND ACTION
The racial injustices suffered by Black people that prompted protests 
across the United States and spread around the world have raised difficult 
yet necessary conversations about systemic racism that persists in society 
today. Honeywell’s stance is clear: racism in any form is simply unacceptable.
Our Code of Business Conduct sets forth a zero-tolerance policy for racial 
discrimination and harassment based on race or color. The policy is explicit 
that anyone who engages in harassing or discriminatory behavior of any 
kind is subject to appropriate disciplinary measures, up to and including 
termination of employment. In addition, Honeywell will never tolerate 
retaliation against those who step forward in good faith to report problems 
or concerns related to our Harassment Policy or Code of Business Conduct.In 2020, our Chairman and CEO and Senior Vice President and General 
Counsel  reinforced Honeywell’s zero-tolerance policy on racism in a 
video distributed to all employees and a series of town hall meetings 
conducted companywide. The message continues to be emphasized 
through training programs and regular communications. A training 
program focusing on unconscious bias is also being developed and will 
be deployed globally to educate employees and influence behavior.  
Here are some other notable actions Honeywell is taking to promote 
racial equality:
• In early 2020, Honeywell entered a five-year corporate sponsorship 
with the National Museum of African American History and Culture 
in Washington, D.C. As part of the Smithsonian Institution, this 
museum hosts millions of visitors each year and focuses on the 
richness, diversity, and resiliency of the African American experience. 
This partnership is creating robust learning and virtual volunteering 
opportunities for Honeywell employees of all races and backgrounds.
• Two years ago, Honeywell launched the Women’s Advancement Program 
to pair rising female executives with career champions while providing 
them access to career development and networking opportunities. 
We are now developing a similar program for Black and Hispanic 
employees and other diverse groups. We are also expanding and 
strengthening our Honeywell Black Employees Network chapters. 
• In 2020, Honeywell began sponsoring the Carolina Youth Coalition, a 
nonprofit organization that prepares high-achieving, under-resourced 
high school students to get into, excel at, and graduate from college.
• Honeywell is expanding recruitment efforts at diversity 
conferences and historically Black colleges and universities. In 
2019, Honeywell’s recruiting efforts were recognized by several 
diversity organizations, including the Military Times, the National 
Society for Black Engineers, and Catalyst, an organization working 
to develop women for corporate senior leadership roles.
A line of engineers wait to meet with Honeywell representatives at the 2019 three-day 
NSBE conferenceTALENT ACQUISITION AND DEVELOPMENT
Recruiting, hiring, and developing top-performing talent is a critical 
component of our performance culture. We are committed to 
creating the best possible opportunities for growth and development 
to support talent at every stage of the employment life cycle.
Honeywell is constantly implementing new ways to discover, improve, 
and expand talent acquisition pipelines. Sourcing talent from diverse 
geographies gives Honeywell a competitive edge in the marketplace.
Campus Hiring
Honeywell’s campus hiring strategy is driven by a focus on academic 
quality and diversity. In 2020, spearheaded by a new Careers website 
and campus outreach branding campaign, we hosted more than 1,000 
virtual internships and increased diversity in campus hiring by 13%.
Honeywell Careers Website and Talent Hub 
Honeywell’s online Careers website and internal Talent Hub are key catalysts 
for transformation in the hiring process. In 2020, these two platforms 
improved both the speed and quality of hires, driving meaningful reductions 
in time taken to fill vacant roles from both internal and external sources.A new initiative for 2020, the Talent Hub is an important component 
of Honeywell’s talent engagement strategy. Employees are 
encouraged to create personal profiles of their own skills, career 
aspirations, and relocation preferences to identify opportunities 
for growth. The Talent Hub also serves as a platform for employee 
referrals. More than 4,000 referrals were submitted since the tool 
launched through May 2020, comprising 20% of all hires.
Internal Talent Development
Honeywell is committed to cultivating internal talent at all levels 
of the company. 
• New initiatives have driven a 25% increase in vacant roles filled with 
internal candidates through enhanced succession planning. 
• Quarterly career discussions for all employees facilitate open 
communication and discussion of development plans. 
• Honeywell’s new Leadership Edge program will provide training in core 
management skills to more than 13,000 leaders across the organization.
• Twelve early-career programs spanning 21 countries are driving the creation 
of strong, diverse pipelines for roles that are vital to Honeywell’s future.
HEALTH, SAFETY,
AND THE
ENVIRONMENT
Honeywell’s health, safety, and environment 
(HSE) programs are managed by a global 
team of trained professionals with extensive 
knowledge and hundreds of years of 
collective experience in occupational health, 
chemistry, hydrology, geology, engineering, 
safety, industrial hygiene, materials 
management, and energy efficiency.
PROTECTS ITS PEOPLE AND 
THE ENVIRONMENTDRIVES COMPLIANCE WITH 
APPLICABLE REGULATIONSACHIEVES SUSTAINABLE 
GROWTH AND ACCELERATED 
PRODUCTIVITYDEVELOPS TECHNOLOGIES 
THAT EXPAND THE 
SUSTAINABLE CAPACITY OF 
OUR WORLDBy integrating HSE considerations into all aspects of its business, Honeywell’s Sustainable Opportunity  policy:The Honeywell Operating System (HOS), 
which drives sustainable improvements and 
the elimination of waste in manufacturing 
operations to generate exceptional 
performance, is a critical component in 
how we think about sustainability. HOS is 
a lean-based manufacturing system with 
roles and ownership for all employees 
from the plant floor to the boardroom to 
engage in careful planning and analysis, 
continuous employee engagement in 
improvement, and thorough follow-through.
Honeywell has built sustainability directly 
into HOS, so the tools, personnel, activities, 
and culture are used to drive sustainability 
with the same focus used to propel other 
critical operational objectives such as 
quality, delivery, inventory, and cost. This 
ensures sustainability is an integrated 
and essential part of the Honeywell 
work experience every day. In addition, 
progress on our sustainability program is 
a factor in determining annual incentive 
compensation for senior leadership.>90%
reduction in Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 greenhouse gas 
intensity since 2004~70%
energy efficiency 
improvement 
since 2004
5,200
greenhouse gas and 
energy efficiency 
projects completed 
since 2010, saving an 
annualized $90M128
million gallons of water 
saved in water-stressed 
regions since 2013 from 
over 150 projects
0.37
total case incident rate 
(TCIR), a safety record 
over 4x better than 
the weighted average 
TCIR of the industries 
in which we operate~3,000
acres remediated and 
restored as valuable 
community assets
CO2
OUR RESULTSManagement System
Honeywell uses a comprehensive management system for Health, Safety, 
Environment, Product Stewardship, and Sustainability (HSEPS). This 
HSEPS Management System is based on recognized third-party standards, 
including ISO 14001 (the international standard that specifies requirements 
for an effective environmental management system) and ISO 45001 (which 
specifies requirements for an occupational health and safety management 
system), as well as industry-best practices that are fully integrated into HOS.
Since 2004, all Honeywell sites have been required to implement an HSE 
Management System founded on common core principles. One key element 
involves reporting HSE-related incidents such as injuries and environmental 
events via a comprehensive management system software solution.Honeywell’s HSEPS Management System encompasses 18 core standards  
that require the company’s businesses to identify HSEPS legal requirements 
and goals, set clear objectives for improvement, and maintain programs 
designed to achieve those objectives. In addition, Honeywell has developed 
detailed operational controls in approximately 90 specific areas that 
prescribe required management elements. All Honeywell facilities are 
required to comply with both these operational controls and any applicable 
legal requirements. Areas in which specific operational controls are 
required are listed on our website  and include safety, industrial hygiene, 
loss prevention, environment, health, product stewardship, transportation 
safety, process safety management, construction safety, and remediation.
Compliance with standards and regulatory requirements is monitored 
through a companywide, HSEPS-led audit process. A team of internal 
and external subject matter experts conduct the audits and focus 
on verification of requirements and continuous improvement. When 
the requirements are not met, corrective action plans are developed, 
implemented, and monitored through our centralized management system. 
In 2018, we implemented common performance measurements across all 
businesses. The Common Balanced Scorecard uses leading and lagging 
indicators to drive performance to targets and management system 
maturity.
In 2019, we upgraded our Management System to provide an 
advanced IT solution that creates common performance practices 
across our businesses and supports rapid, companywide changes.
Certifications
In addition to complying with our own strict standards, many of our 
manufacturing sites have also obtained third-party certifications for 
management systems relating to quality, occupational health and safety, 
and the environment. Emergency Preparedness
Emergency Management Plans are required anywhere we operate. 
As part of the plan development process, emergency scenarios are 
evaluated to anticipate, prevent, and minimize risks from potential 
emergencies. Key community-related elements include:
• Communicating with employees, contractors, visitors, 
relevant emergency response services, government 
authorities, and the local community, as appropriate
• Annual engagement with external emergency response providers 
and local emergency planning committees that are relevant 
to our response plans to discuss coordination, participation, 
and feedback on potential emergency response activities
• A process for responding to raw materials, product, 
process, and waste material transportation incidents 
that could occur away from operating locations
• Forums for open dialogue between the community 
and business representatives to discuss health and 
safety considerations affecting the community
In addition, relevant interested parties including customers, 
neighboring facilities, government partners, and other stakeholders 
are consulted about matters pertinent to the HSEPS Management 
System. We also participate in mutual engagement programs 
and best practice-sharing activities as appropriate.~87%
ISO 9001 / AS 9100
ISO 45001 / OHSAS 18001 / VPP ISO 14001 / RC 14001~31% ~30%
Find details on Safety and 
Sustainability recognition Honeywell 
received on our website .HEALTH AND SAFETY
The safety of our employees, contractors, and partners is our top 
priority. We use our HOS-based approach to drive improvements in our 
safety record.
Based on this data, our global Total Case Incident Rate (TCIR), the number 
of occupational injuries and illnesses per 100 employees) was 0.37 at the 
end of 2019. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, the weighted 
average TCIR of the industries in which Honeywell operates is over 2.0.HONEYWELL ’S 
SAFETY RECORD 
IS FOUR TIMES 
BETTER THAN 
THE AVERAGE 
OF INDUSTRIES 
IN WHICH WE 
OPERATEProtecting the Workforce
Our operating locations rely on comprehensive processes for 
assessments of hazards that could pose a risk to workers, including 
employees, contractors, and visitors. Based on these assessments, 
risk mitigation controls are identified, implemented, and monitored 
to help ensure effective worker protections remain in place. Types of 
assessments include pre-use chemical reviews, personal protective 
equipment evaluations and inspections, procedure checks for reporting 
adverse effects from chemicals, and routine exposure monitoring 
for certain chemicals known to be present in the workplace.
Upon identification of a risk, we implement one or more of the 
following risk-reducing controls: eliminate the activity or chemical 
usage; switch to a lower-risk activity or chemical; install engineered 
controls; apply administrative controls; and institute the use of 
new or different worker personal protective equipment.
Voluntary Protection Program
The U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) 
Voluntary Protection Program (VPP) promotes effective site-based 
safety and health protocols and sets performance-based criteria for 
health and safety management systems.  VPP recognizes exemplary 
achievement in the prevention and control of occupational safety 
and health hazards as well as the development, implementation and 
continuous improvement of their safety and health management system. 
In VPP, management, labor, and OSHA work cooperatively and 
proactively to prevent fatalities, injuries, and illnesses through a 
system focused on hazard prevention and control, worksite analysis, 
training, management commitment, and worker involvement. To 
participate, employers must apply to OSHA and undergo a rigorous 
onsite evaluation by a team of safety and health professionals.Honeywell Safety Institute
Honeywell has training centers across the globe to educate workers 
how to safely perform tasks in high-risk environments such as 
communications towers, wind turbines, and oil platforms.  
Every year, our High-Risk Safety business trains more than 5,000 workers 
who serve five markets: oil and gas, utilities and energy, construction, 
commercial building solutions, and heavy metal fabrication. In addition, the 
Honeywell Safety Institute provides online resources and certified training 
programs available to both employees and customers around the world.
HONEYWELL 
HAS VPP STAR 
RECOGNITION AT 20 
MANUFACTURING 
SITES IN THE U.S.THE ENVIRONMENT
Our commitment to being environmentally responsible is reflected in the 
extensive work we do to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, increase 
energy efficiency, conserve water, minimize waste, and drive efficiency 
throughout our operations. We champion responsible remediation 
projects and efforts to make our products safer and more sustainable.
Our Environmental Goals
In 2019, Honeywell set a new five-year “10-10-10” target to:
• Reduce global Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions intensity by an 
additional 10% from 2018 levels
• Deploy at least 10 renewable energy opportunities
• Achieve certification to ISO’s 50001 Energy Management Standard at 
10 facilities  Governance
Honeywell’s Corporate Vice President of HSEPS is responsible 
for our sustainability program and for implementing our HSEPS 
Management System. This Vice President reports to the 
company’s Senior Vice President and General Counsel. 
A Corporate Energy and Sustainability Team, led by the Corporate Vice 
President of HSEPS, the Vice President of Global Real Estate, and the 
Director of Sustainability, helps drive the company’s sustainability 
goals. Progress on these goals is reported quarterly to Honeywell’s 
Chairman and CEO and is reviewed with the Board’s Corporate 
Governance and Responsibility Committee at least annually.
EXCEEDED
EXCEEDEDMET 3 YEARS EARLY
GOAL: 
30%   
GHG reduction1 
 20%
GOAL: 
10%   
GHG intensity reduction1 
2014 – 2018 (2013 baseline)GOAL: 
15%   
GHG intensity reduction1 
2012 – 2016 (2011 baseline)
energy efficiency improvement  
2007 – 2011 (2004 baseline)
1Scope 1 and Scope 2Energy Efficiency
Honeywell exceeded its public goal to improve 
energy efficiency by more than 20% between 
2004 and 2011 and has continued to drive 
improvements throughout the organization. 
Since project tracking began in 2010, more than 
5,200 efficiency projects, including building 
automation and controls, lighting, and mechanical 
upgrades, have been implemented at our facilities, 
resulting in $90 million in annualized savings.GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING DATA
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Scope 1
MT CO2e4,346,781 3,988,622 3,526,031 2,699,554 1,355,420 1,479,149 1,090,649
Scope 2
MT CO2e1,760,651 1,771,369 1,736,106 1,518,875 1,228,457 1,048,843 951,982
Total 6,107,432 5,759,991 5,262,137 4,218,429 2,583,877 2,527,992 2,042,631
Greenhouse Gas Intensity  
MT CO2e/$M Revenue 156.4  142.9  136.4  107.3  63.7 60.5 55.6
ENERGY EFFICIENCY REPORTING DATA 
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Energy
BBTU36,610 36,403 34,885 30,848 19,417 18,808 17,208
Energy Efficiency
BBTU/$M Revenue 0.937  0.903  0.904 0.785 0.479 0.450 0.469The greenhouse gas intensity metrics are the sum of our Scope 1 and location-based Scope 2 emissions in metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent divided by revenue in million U.S. dollars. Variations in data 
reported can occur due to timing of reporting, and updates to methodologies as newer reporting protocols and emission factors are adopted.
The assurance process we utilize for our greenhouse gas inventory, includes by default, our energy footprint. The energy data compiled here represents our global footprint for all our sites. Estimates are used for 
some of our smaller sites but are typically in the range of 5% of our overall inventory.Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Honeywell reports on its global greenhouse gas emissions pursuant 
to The Greenhouse Gas Protocol and reports publicly through CDP 
(a U.K.-based organization that supports companies’ and cities’ 
environmental disclosures) and various regulatory agencies. 
We have received third-party limited assurance per ISO 14064-3 of 
our Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions annually since 2011.MORE THAN 
90% OVERALL 
REDUCTION IN 
GHG INTENSITY 
SINCE 2004
APPROXIMATELY 70% 
IMPROVEMENT IN 
ENERGY EFFICIENCY 
SINCE 2004To support continuous improvement and as part of 
our HSEPS Management System, our largest sites are 
required to identify their significant energy use in line 
with ISO 50001, obtain an energy audit on an established 
cycle, train personnel on energy management, and 
track identified projects via our standard database. 
This ensures a robust pipeline of both low-cost and 
capital projects that can be considered for execution.Water Stewardship
Honeywell maintains a global inventory of our water usage data and 
continually looks for conservation opportunities. We strategically 
target water conservation projects in areas that are experiencing 
“water stress” as defined by the World Resources Institute.
To ensure a continuous focus on conservation and as part of our 
HSEPS Management System, our larger company sites in water-
stressed regions are required to maintain a water balance, complete 
an annual self-assessment on water best practices, obtain a water 
audit on an established cycle, train personnel on water management, 
and track identified projects via our comprehensive database. Minimizing Waste
Honeywell maintains a global inventory of our waste data, including both 
hazardous and non-hazardous metrics. Each of our strategic business units 
is required to establish annual targets, which must be approved by the CEO, 
for reducing hazardous waste as normalized by revenue and diverting waste 
from landfills. 
Waste generation is tracked via the same global tool we use for collecting 
greenhouse gas, energy, and water data. Waste reduction projects, often 
identified via a kaizen process, are tracked in our project database from 
conception through execution.
Managing Air Emissions
Managing the impact of air emissions is governed by our site HSEPS 
management system. At applicable company sites, a complete and 
comprehensive air emission inventory is required. Air emissions are monitored 
and site-level engineering, administrative, and operational controls are then 
developed to manage and reduce air emissions. Regulatory compliance with 
air emission regulations is required at all sites. In many cases, our plants 
go beyond regulatory compliance to voluntarily further reduce emissions.
SINCE 2013, 
HONEYWELL HAS 
IMPLEMENTED 
MORE THAN 
150 WATER 
CONSERVATION 
PROJECTS IN 
WATER-STRESSED 
AREAS, SAVING 
OVER 128 MILLION 
GALLONSDriving Efficiency in Our Operations
We are proud of the environmental improvements we have achieved in 
partnering with our customers, but we are also proud of our progress 
within our own businesses. Our commitment to drive efficiency and 
act responsibly is reflected in the extensive work we do to make our 
businesses more environmentally friendly, safer and more sustainable. 
HOS, which drives sustainable improvements and the elimination of waste in 
our manufacturing operations, is a critical component in how we approach 
environmental stewardship within Honeywell. We apply the rigorous HOS 
methodologies and principles to achieve our aggressive sustainability goals.
Each of our strategic business units is required to establish 
annual sustainability targets that must be approved by our CEO 
during our annual planning process. Performance of these goals 
is monitored by our cross-business, cross-function Energy and 
Sustainability Team. This team is responsible for driving sustainability 
improvements through a rigorous process of goal setting, monitoring 
and measurement, training, and best practice sharing.
Our success is based on establishing a culture of continuous improvement. 
To create this culture and maintain a pipeline of projects that help us achieve 
our goals, the HSEPS team combines its deep knowledge of energy and 
environmental matters with our HSEPS Management System and HOS 
tools such as tiered accountability, self-assessments, and kaizens (short 
duration projects led by a facilitator, with a specific aim at improvement).
We install a wide range of technologies from our own portfolio at 
manufacturing sites and offices around the world. These include 
energy management and control systems, automation systems 
for boilers, HVAC controls, variable frequency drives, occupancy 
sensors, and metering. Several of our facilities have earned 
recognition for their standout achievements. For example:• Morris Plains, New Jersey: Honeywell’s Performance Materials 
and Technologies headquarters is located in a LEED Gold 
building that includes a 318-kilowatt solar array consisting 
of 1,030 solar panel modules that generate 25% to 35% of 
the site’s electricity; a green roof; and smart lighting.
• Torrance, California:  This site implemented water savings projects 
that incorporated additional treatment equipment and water re-
use capabilities for an existing deionizing water system. 
• Tempe, Arizona:  We installed a 200-kilowatt solar generating system 
on a covered parking structure that produces enough renewable 
energy to meet 30% of the administrative building’s needs.
Honeywell, Morris Plains, New Jersey• Olomouc, Czech Republic:  This site earned Honeywell Aerospace’s 
Sustainability Award for achieving 100% waste diversion for non-
hazardous waste. The site also eliminated 540 kilograms of hazardous 
waste by developing new techniques for a solvent used in a vapor-
cleaning machine to prepare parts for welding and soldering. This 
enables 99% of the solvent to be reused in the process.  
• Nagykanizsa, Hungary:  The Hungarian Innovation and Efficiency 
Nonprofit Ltd. awarded Honeywell its Virtual Power Plant Program’s 
Energy Efficient Company Award in recognition of our success 
in raising energy awareness and investing in energy efficiency 
improvements. The site purchased and installed 297 rooftop solar 
panels that provide enough energy to power 8% of its electricity.• Shanghai, China:  Nearly 100,000 Honeywell sensors monitor important 
operational data at our site, including the real-time number of people in 
the building, temperature and humidity levels, air particulate indices, and 
electricity consumption. 
• Gurugram, Haryana, India:  Our India Technology Center is a LEED 
Platinum site. The building is a zero-liquid discharge site and features 
three rainwater harvesting systems.
Honeywell Aerospace Olomouc, Czech Republic Honeywell International (India) Pvt. Ltd. Haryana, IndiaRESPONSIBLE REMEDIATION
Honeywell has a history of successfully resolving complex environmental 
challenges and taking a proactive approach to remediation of legacy 
obligations from former operations and of our predecessor companies. 
We have spent $4 billion over the last 15 years to clean up many of 
these sites and restore them to productive community use. Using 
cutting-edge science, design, and engineering to protect human 
health and the environment, we work cooperatively with governments 
and communities to implement effective solutions. We do not 
consider our cleanups complete until the legacy property has been 
transformed into a valuable asset for the surrounding community. 
Here are some of our most notable success stories.Onondaga Lake, Syracuse, New York
At Onondaga Lake in Syracuse, we have dredged and capped the lake 
bed, enabling the best water quality in 100 years. Additionally, we have 
restored and preserved about 1,800 acres of habitat and are planting 
1.1 million native plants, shrubs, and trees. More than 260 wildlife 
species now call this area home, and 130 unique bird species have been 
identified in and around the lake. According to Audubon New York, 80 
bald eagles were documented at the lake in winter 2019, making it the 
largest bald eagle winter roost in a New York state urban environment.
Restoring and Creating a 
More Biodiverse Ecosystem   
Creating sustainable, 
biologically diverse habitats 
was a major focus of the 
remediation and restoration 
of Onondaga Lake. Through 
thoughtful planning and 
input from local scientists, 
wetland ecologists, and robust 
community engagement, 
dynamic and diverse wetlands 
are now supporting a rich and 
productive ecosystem that 
is becoming the cornerstone 
of a renewed watershed.Baltimore, Maryland
Harbor Point, a 27-acre parcel in Baltimore’s Inner Harbor, is taking 
shape as a sustainable and integral part of Baltimore City. The site 
housed a former Allied Chemical chrome plant. (Allied Chemical is 
a Honeywell predecessor company.) Remediation was completed 
in 1999 under the supervision of federal and state regulators. 
Morgan Stanley opened a state-of-the-art commercial office building at 
the site in June 2010.  The Exelon Building, a 21-story mixed-use building 
named for its signature tenant, energy giant Exelon Corp., opened in May 
2016. It also is LEED Gold certified, with a 65,000-square-foot trading 
floor. Two months later, residents began moving into the building’s 
103 apartments, the first tenants to call Harbor Point their home. 
Two other major projects are the 289-unit 1405 Point, completed in 
2018, and Wills Wharf, a complex with offices and a 156-bed Hilton 
Canopy hotel completed in 2019. The redevelopment progress has 
opened a popular stretch of the waterfront to the public to enjoy 
views of the harbor and the city. Recreational and entertainment 
venues are now operating on this transformed manufacturing site.
The Inner Harbor project illustrates the critical importance of 
establishing a working team of a developer and a responsible 
party to coordinate remediation with complex construction.Jersey City, New Jersey
A 95-acre parcel located on the Hackensack River in Jersey City was formerly 
used for commercial and industrial purposes. Remediation was completed in 
2018 under the oversight of the State of New Jersey and the federal court. 
In 2008, the Jersey City Council approved the Bayfront plan, which calls 
for transforming the site into new housing, office, and retail uses. The 
plan incorporates public waterfront access, and plentiful open space. 
In June 2020, Jersey City selected two developers for the first phase 
of the Bayfront project, which is projected to include 1,100 residential 
units. Jersey City also indicated that it would target 35 percent of 
the total Bayfront units for affordable and workforce housing.
Read Revitalizing Brownfields, Renewing Communities   
for more information.
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
Making products safer for people and the planet is systematically 
considered at the design stage of all products. As Honeywell 
businesses invent new tools and solutions, we take deliberate, strategic 
steps to improve each innovation’s eco-efficiency. Specifically, 
we evaluate new products by gauging their potential to:
• Reduce the use of natural resources during manufacturing and distribution 
• Increase the energy efficiency of the product itself or because of its use 
• Reduce production waste 
• Identify opportunities for product reuse and recycling
• Utilize recycled or renewable materials 
• Reduce and eliminate classified toxic or hazardous materials 
• Utilize more efficient packagingProduct Compliance
Honeywell is committed to ensuring that our products are manufactured 
to comply with environmental regulations in the markets we serve. 
Honeywell’s Global Product Stewardship team is responsible for 
the management of environmental compliance activities.
Regulatory monitoring combined with expertise and internal procedures 
help ensure comprehensive programs are in place throughout 
Honeywell to manage and meet regulatory requirements such as:
• REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization 
and Restriction of Chemicals)
• RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances)
• GHS (Globally Harmonized System of Classification 
and Labelling of Chemicals) 
• WEEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment)
To meet Honeywell’s regulatory requirements, we actively engage 
with our suppliers to obtain chemical substance information for the 
materials they supply, as well as the sourcing of minerals used.
REACH
Honeywell is committed to ensuring all its products manufactured in 
or imported into the European Union comply with REACH legislative 
requirements. Honeywell has regulatory management systems in place 
to support ongoing compliance activities to monitor the Candidate List 
and European Chemical Agency’s recommendations for authorization. 
Honeywell has submitted dossier updates when required and continues 
to meet communication requirements to downstream users.
Extended Producer Responsibility
Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is an environmental policy 
approach in which a producer’s responsibility for a product is extended 
to the post-consumer management of the product and its packaging. 
Honeywell complies with all legal requirements for EPR either directly 
or by working with accredited recycling partners or networks to ensure 
proper end-of-life treatment of our products to avoid any impacts 
to the environment. Potentially applicable regulations include:
• Waste Electrical & Electronic Equipment (WEEE)
• Battery recycling obligations
• Packaging recycling obligations
Our New Product Introduction requirements help ensure that EPR 
strategies are considered during the design and packaging of products.
Responsible Care Program
Honeywell’s Performance Materials and Technologies business 
participates in the Responsible Care® program of the American 
Chemistry Council (ACC). Responsible Care is a global, voluntary 
initiative developed by the chemical industry to drive continuous 
improvement in health, safety, and environmental performance.
Responsible Care is practiced today in 68 economies around the world. 
Program implementation leads to improved efficiency; lower environment, 
health and safety costs; and improved relations with stakeholders 
through open and transparent communications. Responsible Care 
companies have reduced air pollutants by 44% and safety incidents by 
48% since 2000. The ACC members have also reduced GHG intensity 
by 24% and improved their energy efficiency by 19% since 1992.
As a signatory company, Honeywell is committed to improve its 
performance in the fields of environmental protection, occupational 
safety and health protection, plant security, process safety, product 
stewardship, operational energy efficiency, and logistics. Responsible 
Care companies embed these values up and down the organization’s 
value chain, as well as continuously improve dialogue with neighbors 
and the public, independent from legal requirements. Honeywell’s 
Performance Materials and Technologies headquarters has been 
certified RC14001  by an external ISO registrar since 2005.SOCIAL
GOOD
Honeywell demonstrates its commitment 
to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 
and community involvement through 
unique global programs that emphasize 
science, technology, engineering, and 
mathematics (STEM) education, inclusion 
and diversity, and humanitarian relief. (To 
learn more about our efforts to promote 
inclusion and diversity in our communities, 
see the Inclusion and Diversity section 
of this report.) In some regions, child and 
family safety are also strong components 
of our CSR agenda. Our programs have 
delivered significant and meaningful 
results in communities around the world. 
IN THE COMMUNITY
Honeywell’s global philanthropic initiative works to improve lives 
and inspire change in communities around the world. While we 
seek to make an impact at a global scale, we want our presence and 
commitment to our communities to be felt at the local level.
STEM Education 
More than five million elementary, middle, high school, and university 
students worldwide have participated in Honeywell’s STEM programs. 
Georgia Tech STEM Teacher Leadership Program
Teachers in Atlanta received computation and coding training at 
the Honeywell-sponsored STEM Teacher Leadership Program at 
Georgia Institute of Technology. The program is open to teachers from 
Atlanta-area schools pursuing a Georgia Department of Education 
State STEM School certification. The program aims to create a 
professional network of teachers to serve as instructional leaders in 
computer science, as well as to strengthen the computational aspects 
of the STEM curricula to enhance students’ learning experience. 
The program reached more than 2,000 students in its first year.Key components of the two-year program include: 
• Four weeks of summer training in software engineering and 
computing, along with access to Georgia Tech’s computing research 
and Honeywell engineers who serve as mentors and coaches. 
• The Honeywell STEM Challenge, a software engineering competition 
where students work in teams to solve real-world challenges 
using software coding and computational techniques. 
• An Annual STEM Teacher Leadership Program Symposium, where 
program alumni and other teachers and leaders from the Metro Atlanta 
region participate in additional academic and networking activities at 
Georgia Tech. 
• In 2020, a specialized course for returning teacher participants will give 
them the skills and education needed to earn a Georgia Assessment 
for the Certification of Educators certification in computer science.
New Labs Focused on Internet of Things (loT) Technologies  
Honeywell has established control systems labs at six universities in 
Turkey, Romania, and Indonesia that are focused on Internet of Things 
technologies. The labs serve more than 10,000 students per year.
Engineering students at University Politehnica Timisoara, Romania, are 
putting their theoretical knowledge into practice using the Honeywell 
Smart Meter Control Laboratory at the university’s Faculty of Electrical 
and Power Engineering. The lab, opened in 2019, is equipped with 
technology systems that enable students and faculty to simulate, 
learn, and develop innovative smart systems aimed at reducing energy 
consumption. Technology used includes oscilloscopes, smart meter 
communication probes, and consumption simulation sources.
Honeywell Center for Advancing Girls in Science  
Honeywell has partnered with the Avasara Leadership Institute, a non-profit 
organization that provides educational opportunities for India’s brightest 
girls from disadvantaged backgrounds, to create rich STEM learning 
programs. The Honeywell Center for Advancing Girls in Science created 
classrooms, laboratories, and dormitories as a base for the program. The 
center provides deep, transformative science education to girls between 
11 and 18 years old.
In addition to 500 residential students, the school provides STEM 
education to more than 12,000 students from government and financially 
challenged schools.
Honeywell Leadership Challenge Academy
This weeklong, annual immersive experience serves nearly 300 high 
school children of Honeywell employees between the ages of 16 and 18 to 
develop their science, technology, engineering, math, and leadership skills 
through astronaut-focused workshops, lectures, and team exercises. 
Working in partnership with the U.S. Space & Rocket Center in Huntsville, 
Alabama, this program teaches the critical leadership skills kids need 
to succeed, including communication, teamwork, critical thinking, and 
problem-solving. Designed to promote future careers in STEM fields, 
the Honeywell Leadership Challenge Academy has educated over 3,000 
students from 63 countries, 41 states and Puerto Rico since 2010. Honeywell Science Experience  
Honeywell has partnered with Agastya International Foundation 
to bring a hands-on science education program for economically 
disadvantaged children and teachers across India.
Designed to cultivate curiosity, creativity, and leadership among students, 
the program includes innovative curricula and learning techniques 
for students and teachers. Through scalable, hands-on teaching and 
learning methods, the program aims to develop creative thinking and 
problem-solving abilities in children and boost science education.
Launched in 2016, the partnership has established 25 experiential 
science centers and 35 mobile labs benefitting more than 
150,000 students and 750 teachers across 10 cities.
HUMANITARIAN RELIEF
Since 2005, the Honeywell Humanitarian Relief Foundation, an 
employee-funded nonprofit organization, has distributed more 
than $14.2 million in relief funding to roughly 2,400 employees and 
our communities around the world after hurricanes, earthquakes, 
wildfires, flooding, typhoons and tsunamis. The foundation has 
also repaired or rebuilt 900 homes, four schools, nine medical 
clinics, 900 wells, and one elder-care center in this time. In 2019, Honeywell employees received emergency financial assistance 
from the foundation to help recover from Hurricane Dorian in the 
eastern United States. In 2020, Honeywell and its employees provided 
more than $400,000 in safety products and financial assistance 
to support first responders during the Australia bushfires. Safe Water Network in India  
Honeywell and Safe Water Network are partnering to provide 
convenient and reliable access to affordable, safe drinking water in 
communities within the Telangana and Karnataka states in India. 
Funded by a grant from Honeywell India’s charitable foundation. 
Safe Water Network has built 180 clean drinking water stations since 
2015. These stations serve approximately 650,000 people in an area 
with acute groundwater contamination from fluoride and arsenic. 
They have continued to operate during the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Safe Water Network, a nonprofit organization dedicated to developing 
affordable and sustainable access to safe water for those most in 
need, applies a business approach to a social problem. This model 
promotes empowerment and economic mobility by ultimately 
entrusting ownership of projects to locals whose communities are 
typically beyond the reach of large infrastructure projects. Child and Family Safety  
Through its partnership with Safe Kids Worldwide, Honeywell has educated 
approximately 3 million students on fire, burns, and scalds through 
safety training in the United States, China, India, and Malaysia. In India, 
the Honeywell Safe Schools program – in partnership with Sustainable 
Environment and Ecological Development Society – has brought 
customized school safety education to more than 100,000 students, 
parents, and teachers across three cities.
RESPONDING TO THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC
In 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic spread around the globe 
and brought everyday life to a halt in many regions. When 
the crisis struck, Honeywell moved quickly to address the 
needs of our employees, customers, and communities. 
Supporting Our Employees
As the COVID-19 pandemic emerged early in 2020, we took 
the following decisive actions to support our employees:
• Instituted safety protocols at work sites, including temperature 
screenings, face coverings, social distancing mandates, enhanced 
site sanitization, expanded cleaning procedures, modified workplace 
and seating layouts, common area evaluations to minimize exposure, 
and new certification processes for anyone entering our sites
• Implemented work-from-home protocols and expanded our 
technical capabilities to enable employees with duties that 
can be performed remotely to work safely at home
• Made paid sick time available up front for non-exempt U.S. employees 
through the end of 2020 instead of accruing it during each pay period
• Covered out-of-pocket costs associated with prescribed COVID-19 
testing for all employees, and covered out-of-pocket treatment costs for 
employees and their dependents enrolled in Honeywell’s medical plans
• Established a $10 million relief fund to support select 
employees worldwide in potential financial distress
• Leveraged Honeywell’s Enterprise Performance Management 
software, Honeywell Forge, to develop predictive models and 
projections of the coronavirus progression that provided data when 
formulating return-to-the-workplace decisions for employees
• Provided regular communications to employees from the 
Honeywell Medical Team with guidance on how to stay safe
• Expanded access to well-being and health support programs and 
services, including those offered through Honeywell’s Employee 
Assistance ProgramSupporting Our Communities
We continue to demonstrate our commitment to corporate social 
responsibility by establishing relief programs, expanding partnerships, 
and making monetary and in-kind donations that are helping 
communities respond to the COVID-19 crisis and economic downturn. 
Around the world, Honeywell has made donations of protective masks 
and other PPE to hospitals and organizations battling COVID-19 in 
their communities. As of June 2020, Honeywell has pledged or donated 
nearly 200,000 masks to hospitals and nonprofits worldwide.
Charlotte Center City Small Business Innovation Fund
As small businesses face significant challenges brought on by COVID-19, 
Honeywell is providing $2 million to help small businesses in our new 
headquarters city adapt to the drastically altered business environment. 
The Charlotte Center City Small Business Innovation Fund, a 
partnership between Honeywell and nonprofit organizations 
Charlotte Center City Partners and Foundation For The Carolinas, 
is helping small business owners make needed changes to 
strengthen their operations during the COVID-19 crisis. 
The fund’s diverse steering committee is making grants of up to $40,000 to 
owners of businesses with less than 50 employees within a two-mile radius 
of Charlotte’s city center. More than 90% of the grants awarded in the first 
round of funding went to women-, minority-, and veteran-owned businesses.Hand Sanitizer Donations  
We temporarily shifted some manufacturing operations at our Honeywell 
Advanced Materials sites in Muskegon, Michigan, and Seelze, Germany, 
to produce and donate hand sanitizer to government agencies in 
response to shortages created by the COVID-19 pandemic. 
• In May, the Muskegon plant started hand sanitizer production, and donated 
40,000 liters-- equivalent to more than 165,000 8-ounce bottles -- of 
hand sanitizer to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). 
• The Seelze plant also fulfilled and delivered an emergency donation of 
10,000 liters of industrial hand sanitizer to the Saxony Ministry of Health, 
Social Affairs and Equality to distribute to local hospitals and factories.   
Supporting Families and Schools in India
The Honeywell Hometown Solutions India Foundation (HHSIF) partnered 
with SEEDS India to bring meals and hygiene kits to families under 
lockdown in India. 
Together, HHSIF and SEEDS distributed more than 3.7 million meals 
and 12,300 hygiene kits to families impacted by COVID-19 in five cities 
across India. 
Additionally, the Honeywell India team donated 150 air purifiers to state 
and local governments as they converted schools and public facilities into 
makeshift medical facilities and quarantine centers.
Early COVID-19 Response in China
In the early days of the COVID-19 crisis, Honeywell made multiple, significant 
donations in Wuhan province. The Honeywell China team arranged $2 
million in fire and security equipment donations to hospitals, and child 
safety masks for schools operating in the epicenter of the pandemic.
SASB / TCFD INFORMATION
SASB
The following disclosures are aligned to the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) framework 
for the Resource Transformation—Electrical and Electric Equipment (EE) industry.  As a diversified 
industrial manufacturer, the nature of Honeywell’s business does not fit squarely within one industry, 
so Honeywell has included metrics aligned to other industries we believe would be of interest to our 
stakeholders. Honeywell will continue to evaluate the disclosure of additional topics relevant to our 
industries, taking into account materiality, availability of reliable data, and competitive sensitivities.
TOPIC ACCOUNTING METRIC SASB CODE HONEYWELL METRIC1 /DISCLOSURE LOCATION
Greenhouse Gas EmissionsGross global Scope 1 emissions; percentage 
covered under emissions-limiting regulationsRT-CH-110a.1 1,090,649 metric tons CO2e2; 2.5% under emissions-limiting regulations 
Discussion of long-term and short-term 
strategy or plan to manage Scope 1 emissions, 
emissions reduction targets, and an analysis of 
performance against those targetsRT-CH-110a.2Corporate Citizenship Report: Our Environmental Goals, Page 34; 
Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Page 35; Managing Air Emissions, 
Page 36; Driving Efficiency in Operations, Page 37
Energy Management1) Total energy consumed, 
(2) percentage grid electricity, 
(3) percentage renewableRT-EE-130a.1
RT-AE-130a.1
RT-CH-130a.1(1) 18,154,913 GJ
(2) 39% grid electricity
(3) 1% renewable energy
Water ManagementDescription of water management risks and 
discussion of strategies and practices to mitigate 
those risksRT-CH-140a.3 Corporate Citizenship Report: Water Stewardship, Page 36
Workforce Health & SafetyTotal recordable incident rate (TRIR) for (a) direct 
employees and (b) contract employeesRT-CH-320a.1 0.373
Description of efforts to assess, monitor, and 
reduce exposure of employees and contract 
workers to long-term (chronic) health risksRT-CH-320a.2 Corporate Citizenship Report: Protecting the Workforce, Page 33
1Represents 2019 data.
2Reported pursuant to The Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
3Represents TRIR for employees and directly supervised contractors; calculated based on OSHA guidelines.TOPIC ACCOUNTING METRIC SASB CODE HONEYWELL METRIC /DISCLOSURE LOCATION
Community RelationsDiscussion of engagement processes to 
manage risks and opportunities associated with 
community interestsRT-CH-210a.1Corporate Citizenship Report: Management System, Page 30; 
Emergency Preparedness, Page 31 
Revitalizing Brownfields, Renewing Communities
2020 Proxy: New Uses from Legacy Properties, Page 33
Materials SourcingDescription of the management of risks 
associated with the use of critical materialsRT-EE-440a.1
RT-AE-440a.1Corporate Citizenship Report: Critical Materials, Page 20
Management of the Legal &
Regulatory EnvironmentDiscussion of corporate positions related to 
government regulations and/or policy proposals 
that address environmental and social factors 
affecting the industryRT-CH-530a.1CDP Climate Change Report:  C12.3, C12.3a 
2020 Proxy: Political Engagement and Contributions, Page 35
Business EthicsDescription of policies and practices for 
prevention of: (1) corruption and bribery, and (2) 
anti-competitive behaviorRT-EE-510a.1Corporate Citizenship Report: Integrity and Compliance, Page 14
Code of Business Conduct: Pages 23, 37, 39
Discussion of processes to manage business 
ethics risks throughout the value chainRT-AE-510a.3Corporate Citizenship Report: Integrity and Compliance, Page 14
Code of Business Conduct: Pages 35-44
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of 
legal proceedings associated with bribery or 
corruption (and/or illicit international trade)RT-EE-510a.2
RT-AE-510a.1SEC Filings: Information on legal proceedings is disclosed in our Annual 
Report on Form 10-K and in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q
Total amount of monetary losses as a 
result of legal proceedings associated with 
anticompetitive behavior regulationsRT-EE-510a.3SEC Filings: Information on legal proceedings is disclosed in our Annual 
Report on Form 10-K and in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q
Activity Number of employeesRT-EE-000.B
RT-AE-000.B113,000 employees as of December 31, 2019TCFD
GOVERNANCE 
DISCLOSE THE ORGANIZATION’S GOVERNANCE AROUND CLIMATE-RELATED RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES.
SUMMARY RESPONSE RECOMMENDED DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE LOCATION
Honeywell is committed to strong corporate governance policies, 
practices, and procedures designed to ensure our Board effectively 
exercises its oversight role. Our Board is responsible for, among other 
things, reviewing and monitoring implementation of Honeywell’s 
strategic plans, reviewing risk assessments, and monitoring 
mitigation activities with respect to significant risks and issues facing 
the company, including climate-related risks and opportunities. The 
Board’s Corporate Governance and Responsibility Committee (CGRC) 
has primary responsibility for managing climate-related risks and 
opportunities. Roles for assessing and managing climate-related 
risks and opportunities are integrated into a number of functions and 
committees throughout the company. Honeywell’s Corporate Vice 
President of Health, Safety, Environment, Product Stewardship and 
Sustainability (HSEPS) is responsible for our sustainability program 
and for implementing our HSEPS Management System. Goals are 
established annually with Honeywell’s Chairman and CEO. The 
Corporate Energy and Sustainability Team, led by the Corporate Vice 
President of HSEPS, the Vice President of Global Real Estate, and the 
Director of Sustainability, helps drive the company’s sustainability 
goals. This includes the use of efficiency audits and quarterly risk 
assessments. Progress on these goals is reported quarterly to the 
Chairman and CEO and is reviewed with the CGRC at least annually.a)  Describe the board’s oversight of climate-
related risks and opportunities.CDP Climate Change Report: C1.1b
2020 Proxy: Corporate Governance, Page 17; Board’s Role in Oversight, 
Page 23; Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability, Page 30
Board Committee Charters
b)  Describe management’s role in assessing 
and managing climate-related risks and 
opportunities.CDP Climate Change Report:  C1.2, C1.2a
STRATEGY 
DISCLOSE THE ACTUAL AND POTENTIAL IMPACTS OF CLIMATE-RELATED RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES ON THE ORGANIZATION’S BUSINESSES, STRATEGY, AND FINANCIAL 
PLANNING WHERE SUCH INFORMATION IS MATERIAL.
SUMMARY RESPONSE RECOMMENDED DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE LOCATION
Honeywell’s diverse portfolio of products, solutions, end-markets, 
and business models – along with our decentralized operational 
footprint and our rigorous risk identification, assessment, and 
planning processes – mitigate the impact of climate-related risks. 
We do not believe climate-related risks are reasonably likely to 
have a material effect in the foreseeable future on the company’s 
business or the markets it serves, nor on our results of operations, 
capital expenditures, or financial position. Honeywell is uniquely 
positioned to shape a safer and more sustainable future. We continue 
to invent and develop technologies that provide our customers with 
adaptable and efficient solutions to address their safety, energy, and 
environmental needs.a)  Describe the climate-related risks and 
opportunities the organization has identified 
over the short, medium, and long term.CDP Climate Change Report:  C2.1a, C2.3, C2.3b, C2.4, 2.4a
Corporate Citizenship Report: Examples of risks and opportunities, 
Tables A and Table B, Pages 55-56
b)  Describe the impact of climate-related risks 
and opportunities on the organization’s 
businesses, strategy, and financial planning.CDP Climate Change Report:  C2.3b, 2.4a, C3.1, C3.1b, C3.1d, C3.1e
Corporate Citizenship Report: Examples of risks and opportunities, 
Tables A and Table B, Pages 55-56
c)  Describe the resilience of the organization’s 
strategy, taking into consideration different 
climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or 
lower scenario.CDP Climate Change Report:  C3.1a, C3.1bThe following table maps Honeywell’s publicly available climate-related discussion 
against the framework developed by the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial 
Disclosures. For detailed discussion, please see the referenced documents.RISK MANAGEMENT
DISCLOSE HOW THE ORGANIZATION IDENTIFIES, ASSESSES, AND MANAGES CLIMATE-RELATED RISKS
SUMMARY RESPONSE RECOMMENDED DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE LOCATION
Honeywell regularly assesses risks and opportunities at both a 
company-wide and asset-specific level to determine both probability 
of occurrence and potential impact to the business. This assessment 
is incorporated into our standard business planning, and opportunity 
and risk management processes. While risk and opportunity 
management are part of our standard business operations, the Board 
has responsibility for risk oversight and regularly reviews top-level, 
strategic, operational, reporting, and compliance risks.a)  Describe the organization’s 
processes for identifying and assessing 
climate-related risks.CDP Climate Change Report:  C2.1, C2.2, C2.2a
b)  Describe the organization’s processes for 
managing climate-related risks.CDP Climate Change Report:  C2.1, C2.2
c)  Describe how processes for identifying, 
assessing, and managing climate-related risks 
are integrated into the organization’s overall 
risk management.CDP Climate Change Report:  C2.1, C2.2
METRICS AND TARGETS
DISCLOSE THE METRICS AND TARGETS USED TO ASSESS AND MANAGE RELEVANT CLIMATE-RELATED RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES WHERE SUCH INFORMATION IS MATERIAL.
SUMMARY RESPONSE RECOMMENDED DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE LOCATION
Overall, Honeywell’s sustainability program has reduced Scope 1 
and Scope 2 greenhouse gas intensity by more than 90%. In 2019, 
the company set a fourth goal, a new five-year “10-10-10” target to 
reduce global Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions by an 
additional 10%, indexed to revenue, from 2018 levels; to deploy at 
least 10 renewable energy opportunities; and to achieve certification 
to ISO’s 50001 Energy Management Standard at 10 facilities, all 
by 2024. Honeywell has received third-party limited assurance 
per ISO 14064-3 of our Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions 
annually since 2011. a)  Disclose the metrics used by the organization 
to assess climate-related risks and 
opportunities in line with its strategy and risk 
management process.CDP Climate Change Report:  C4.1, C4.1a, C4.1b, C-CG9.6, C-CG9.6a
b)  Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, 
Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, 
and the related risks.Corporate Citizenship Report: Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions, 
Page 35
CDP Climate Change Report:  C6.1, C6.3, C6.5
c)  Describe the targets used by the 
organization to manage climate-related 
risks and opportunities and performance 
against targets.Corporate Citizenship Report: Our Environmental Goals, Page 34
CDP Climate Change Report:  C4.1, C4.1a, C4.1bTable A: Examples of climate-related risks with mitigation strategies
TIME HORIZON
RISK TYPE POTENTIAL FINANCIAL IMPACT (-) SHORT MEDIUM LONG MITIGATION STRATEGY
Transition: Policy and LegalIncreased pricing of greenhouse gas emissions 
due to regulationsXSince 2004, Honeywell has had a comprehensive program to audit 
facilities for opportunities to reduce Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions, 
to set annual internal and external targets, and to track them to 
completion. This has resulted in an overall reduction of GHG intensity 
above 90%. Honeywell will continue this program to further reduce our 
GHG footprint. In addition, on a quarterly basis, we evaluate the potential 
impact from changes in climate-related regulations and litigation.
Transition: MarketReduced demand for goods and services due 
to shift in consumer preferences or changes in 
purchasing powerXHoneywell continuously innovates to expand sustainable opportunities 
with our products and services. Approximately 50% of our R&D spend 
is on our ESG-related portfolio, much of which relates to reducing 
GHG emissions. In addition, each of our new products is subject to an 
eco-efficiency assessment considering opportunities to improve energy 
efficiency, and each quarter we assess whether changes in our product 
mixes may impact GHG emissions.
Physical: AcuteReduced revenue from business disruption XClimate change data is incorporated into the emergency response 
plans for every one of our facilities, which specify programs to mitigate 
the potential risks of physical damage. In addition, we evaluate on 
a quarterly basis the potential for impact to our supply chain from 
changes in GHG regulations or from physical damage due to climate-
related events. Our Business Continuity Management Program 
also creates plans to help ensure the company can continue critical 
operations in the event of a disaster and promptly recover essential 
systems and technology.Increased costs from repairing or restoring 
damaged locationsX
Physical: ChronicIncreased cost related to relocation due to sea 
level riseXHoneywell’s Global Real Estate group incorporates physical risk 
considerations as part of due diligence for any new locations. 
Physical: ChronicIncreased cost related to increased need 
for cooling and heating due to changing 
temperaturesXHoneywell’s Global Real Estate group incorporates energy efficiency and 
energy procurement considerations as part of due diligence for any new 
location that would help reduce costs related to energy use, heating, and 
cooling. In addition, since 2004, Honeywell has had a comprehensive 
program to audit, identify, execute, and track completion of energy 
efficiency projects in all our facilities. This program has improved 
Honeywell’s overall energy efficiency by approximately 70%. We will 
continue this program going forward.Table B: Examples of climate-related opportunities with strategies to realize the opportunity
TIME HORIZON
OPPORTUNITY TYPE POTENTIAL FINANCIAL IMPACT (+) SHORT MEDIUM LONG STRATEGY TO REALIZE OPPORTUNITY
Resource EfficiencyReduced operating costs through efficiency 
gains and cost reductions by moving to more 
efficient building operationsXThrough the Global Real Estate group, Honeywell constantly seeks 
energy-efficient alternatives and initiatives to implement throughout 
our facilities for new construction, project upgrades, and retrofits. In 
addition, since 2004, Honeywell has implemented a comprehensive 
energy efficiency program with periodic audits, goals, and project 
review to completion. This program has resulted in approximately 70% 
improvement in energy efficiency. There have been 5,200 projects 
completed since 2010 with an estimated annualized savings of more 
than $90M.
Products and ServicesIncrease revenue through demand for 
sustainable productsXHoneywell continuously innovates to expand our portfolio of sustainable 
products and services. Approximately 50% of new production 
introduction research and development activity is on our ESG-related 
portfolio, much of which relates to reducing GHG emissions. Each of our 
strategic business groups invests significantly in these opportunities, 
and we have recently created a new business unit, Sustainable 
Technologies and Solutions (STS), to develop and commercialize new 
technologies that meet the growing demand for sustainable solutions to 
the world’s rising energy needs.
Climate-related scenario modeling is part of our annual business 
planning process. We use socioeconomic climate models with different 
scenario assumptions to determine product strategy and customer 
impact for products that address greenhouse gas emissions, energy 
efficiency and changes in fuel use such as decarbonization, renewable 
fuels and power. 
Each of our new products is subject to an eco-efficiency assessment 
that considers opportunities to improve energy efficiency, and each 
quarter we assess whether changes in our product mixes may impact 
GHG emissions. 
Our Government Relations team identifies and assesses emerging 
trends and advocates for favorable policies, legislation and regulation 
globally to promote clean energy and energy efficiency. Changes in 
regulations, increases in the demand for advanced building controls 
and energy efficient products, and the transition to a lower-carbon 
economy support demand for our sustainable products. For example, 
the transition from high-GWP HFCs to low-GWP HFO alternatives 
presented a transition opportunity and, as a result, Honeywell developed 
our line of Solstice® products, which have already helped our customers 
avoid discharging more than 175 million metric tons of CO2 equivalent 
to the atmosphere. Better competitive position to reflect shifting 
consumer preferences, resulting in increased 
revenuesXTHE  FUTURE  IS  WHAT  WE  MAKE  IT.
Copyright © 2020 Honeywell International Inc.Honeywell 
Charlotte, NC 28202  
www.honeywell.com