IGM Financial 2020 Sustainability Report
Building 
Tomorrow 
Together2
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportBuilding tomorrow together  
Our family of companies is committed to improving the financial well-being of Canadians and helping them 
achieve their goals at every stage of life. After one of the most difficult years in recent memory, we look forward  
to building tomorrow together with our clients and industry and community partners.
Overview  3
About this report  3
About us 4
Message from our CEO 5
Q&A with our VP, Finance and  
 Corporate Sustainability  7
Sustainability strategy  9
Material ESG topics 10
Engaging with stakeholders  11
Sustainable Development Goals 14
Creating shared value 15
Memberships and initiatives  16
Awards and recognition  17
Earning and sustaining trust  18
2020 highlights 19
Governance  20
Ethics and compliance 23
Risk management  27
Information security and privacy 30Helping Canadians secure  
their financial future  32
2020 highlights  33
Financial confidence  34
Sustainable investing  38
Empowering our people  43
2020 highlights 44
Talent and culture 45
Diversity, equity and inclusion 53
Strengthening our communities  56
2020 highlights 57
Community support  58
Environmental footprint 61
Appendix  64
ESG Data Tables 64
GRI Index 75
SASB Index 82
TCFD Reporting  84KEY TERMS
Sustainability  – We shifted from our use of the term 
“corporate responsibility” to “sustainability” to align with 
current terminology associated with the growing focus on 
the interconnectedness of planet, people and economy
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG)  – We use 
this term to identify non-financial matters traditionally 
associated with sustainability or corporate responsibility 
that are assessed to have a material financial impact on 
the short- and/or long-term viability of companies
Sustainable investing – We use this term to describe our 
practice of incorporating ESG factors into investment 
decisions and processes to better manage risk and 
generate long-term, sustainable returns (see page 38 )
Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting3
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportAbout  this report
This is our seventh annual sustainability report, discussing the management approaches and performance of IGM Financial (IGM) and 
its three principal operating companies: IG Wealth Management (IG), Mackenzie Investments (Mackenzie) and Investment Planning 
Counsel (IPC). 
While this was formerly called a “corporate responsibility 
report,” we are now calling it a “sustainability report” to 
align with current terminology. The content covered is the 
same as before. Archived versions of previous corporate 
responsibility reports can be found on our website . 
Unless otherwise noted, the information presented here 
is as at December 31, 2020, and all dollar amounts are in 
Canadian funds. Aggregated performance data can be 
found in our 2020 ESG Data Table beginning on page 64 . 
Our report has been prepared in accordance with the 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. 
A GRI Index can be found on page 75 . We are also 
reporting to disclosures within the SASB Standard that 
align closest to our company (Asset Management & 
Custody Activities) and aligning our climate change 
reporting with the Task Force on Climate-related 
Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations. See page 8 2 
and page 8 4, respectively.Report topics 
Report topics were confirmed through a materiality 
assessment conducted in 2019 in line with GRI Standard 
101: Foundation. Our process considered the four 
principles of stakeholder inclusiveness – sustainability, 
context, materiality and completeness – to identify a wide 
range of ESG topics relevant to our stakeholders and our 
company. While our material ESG topics remained the 
same in 2020, we have made minor adjustments to the 
way we report on them as part of our annual review.  
See page 10  for details.
External assurance 
The information and data in this report were collected  
and reviewed by subject matter experts within our 
business operations. While we conduct internal checks  
on the accuracy and completeness of the data we  
report, we also recognize inherent data uncertainty. 
Our Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Statement for the year  
 ended December 31, 2020 was independently assured  
by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC). PwC performed  
a limited assurance engagement over the following: total 
Scope 1 emissions, total Scope 2 emissions and business 
travel (air and ground) Scope 3 emissions. The results of 
PwC’s limited assurance engagement are documented  
in an assurance statement available here .YOUR FEEDBACK
If you have comments, suggestions or 
questions, please contact us at 
sustainability@igmfinancial.com .
RELATED PUBLICATIONS 
IGM Annual Report
Management Proxy Circular
CDP  Report
IG Wealth Management PRI Report
Mackenzie Investments PRI ReportIndex 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting4
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportAbout us
IGM Financial Inc. is a leading wealth and asset management company supporting financial advisors and the clients they serve in 
Canada, and institutional investors throughout North America, Europe and Asia.
Our head office is in Winnipeg, Manitoba, and our common shares trade on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX: IGM). Our activities are carried out principally through three operating 
companies: IG Wealth Management, Mackenzie Investments and Investment Planning Counsel. IGM Financial has a portfolio of investments that support our core businesses, while 
also serving as good investments in their own right. We are a member of the Power Corporation of Canada group of companies.
Employees1 Products and  
Services Distribution  
ChannelsClients Clients Assets Office Locations 
Wealth 
Management1,986 Financial Planning and
advice; Mutual funds;
Private wealth solutions;
Managed asset programs;
Securities, insurance,
banking and  
mortgage products3,304
Financial Advisors1M+
Retail Clients$103.3B
Assets under
advisementCorporate offices 
across Canada including 
Winnipeg, Toronto  
and Quebec
129  
Region offices  
across Canada  
to serve our clients
376696
Financial Advisors199K+
Retail Clients$29.3B
Assets under
advisementCorporate
and distribution
offices across Canada
Asset  
Management 1,163Mutual funds; ETFs; Private
wealth solutions; Managed
asset programs; Other
related services30K+
Third-party advisors and
institutional investors1M+
Retail and
Institutional Clients$186.8B2
Assets under
managementCorporate offices
globally in Canada,
Hong Kong, Beijing,
Dublin, London, Boston
Strategic 
Investments
1 Represents permanent employees as at December 31, 2020.
2 Includes $75.8 billion in advisory fee mandates to Wealth Management.
Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting5
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportMessage from  our CEO 
After a year dominated by the COVID- 19 virus and its impacts on everyone’s lives,  
it’s encouraging to see signs of hope for the future as vaccines are being rolled out.  
As I write this, the pandemic is by no means over, but there’s reason to believe that we’ve 
turned a corner. 
We at IGM Financial are motivated by the role we can play 
in building a brighter tomorrow together with our clients 
and partners. By offering financial planning and advice, we 
can help Canadians achieve their goals and secure their 
financial future. By allocating capital toward ESG-minded 
businesses and solutions, we can tackle global issues  
 like climate change and strengthen society’s resilience  
to future challenges. By collaborating with industry and 
community partners, we can leverage our positive impact 
and drive progress toward global sustainability goals.
With the events of 2020 demonstrating how quickly 
systemic issues can turn the world upside down, there’s 
growing momentum to build a tomorrow that’s more 
equitable, inclusive and sustainable for all stakeholders, 
including shareholders. We are committed to being part  
of this movement. 
Stepping up for our people, clients and 
communities
Of course, our first order of business in 2020 was to help 
stem the spread of the COVID-19 virus. We understood 
early on that the health and well-being of our employees 
and advisors needed to be a top priority if we were to be 
there for our clients. This principle underpinned many of 
our choices throughout the pandemic: our commitment to no COVID-19 related job losses in 2020, the shift to a 
work-from-home model, enhanced health and wellness 
benefits, and more. 
With many of our clients looking for reassurance and 
guidance on how to navigate the financial challenges of 
the COVID-19 crisis, we stepped up to help, transitioning 
quickly from predominantly in-person service to a virtual 
environment. Rather than limit our services to just our 
clients, we also launched community programs like 
IG’s Answering the Call, which offered free advice and 
insights to small and medium-sized business owners. 
Mackenzie, meanwhile, offered Canadian financial 
advisors access to experts and insights through a market 
volatility campaign that centred on providing “calming 
perspectives in uncertain markets.”
Throughout the year, we were active in our communities, 
making significant contributions to COVID-19 relief for  
the most vulnerable citizens, and continuing longstanding 
donations, fundraising and volunteer programs, albeit in  
a modified way. 
Advancing our sustainability journey
As a financial services organization and an allocator  
of capital to companies and governments worldwide,  
we can play an outsized role in advocating for the  
James O’Sullivan
President and Chief 
Executive Officer,  
IGM FinancialIndex 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting6
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability Reportchanges we need to see in the world. I’m pleased to be 
leading a company where sustainability is integral to who 
we are and how we do business, and where people are 
passionate about being change makers. 
In 2020, we zeroed in on three areas that are increasingly 
material to our business success and where we, as wealth 
and asset managers, can make the greatest impact: 
Building financial confidence  – By helping Canadians 
understand their personal finances and secure their 
financial future, we build their financial confidence and 
alleviate one of their top worries. This is core to our 
business and our community work, and we want to 
advance it. In keeping with this objective, IG launched  
 its Empower Your Tomorrow Indigenous Commitment  
in 2020, which will deliver $5 million over five years to 
Indigenous communities across Canada. The centrepiece 
of the campaign is a new partnership with Prosper 
Canada to build the financial confidence of Indigenous 
people in isolated, rural communities.
Improving diversity, equity and inclusion in finance  – 
While diversity and inclusion have long been important to 
us, we resolved to push harder for change in the wake of 
the tragic incidents of racial injustice witnessed in 2020, 
and the recent acts of discrimination and hate against  
the Asian community. All IGM operating companies made 
a public pledge to end anti-Black systemic racism by 
signing on to the BlackNorth Initiative. Mackenzie and  
IG also became founding signatories of the Canadian 
Investor Statement on Diversity & Inclusion, which 
commits them to take intentional steps to promote 
diversity and inclusion within their organizations and 
across their  portfolios.Growing sustainable investing  – Sustainable investing 
is gaining momentum as more and more people look to 
achieve better risk-adjusted returns, while at the same 
time contributing to positive social and environmental 
impact. To meet the demand, Mackenzie, IG and IPC all 
continue to enhance their sustainable investing practices. 
In 2020, Mackenzie acquired Greenchip Financial, a 
Canadian firm that has focused exclusively on the 
environmental economy since 2007. Interestingly, 
Mackenzie’s fastest-growing fund in 2020 was the 
Mackenzie Global Environmental Equity Fund, which 
focuses on opportunities in environmental sectors, 
notably in energy transition from fossil fuels to 
renewable  power.
We are taking action on climate change, and we were 
recognized by the CDP at the leadership level for our 
climate disclosures for the fourth consecutive year in 
2020. Full implementation of the recommendations of  
the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD) is a top priority going forward.As we become a leader in sustainable investing, and 
advocate for responsible and sustainable business 
practices, we must hold ourselves to the standards we 
expect of others. We’re continually working to evolve what 
we do and be transparent to our stakeholders. We’re also 
proud to be recognized for our efforts, including being 
named one of Corporate Knights’ 2021 Global 100 Most 
Sustainable Corporations in the World. We finished 29th 
overall and were the top-rated investment services 
company globally and the top-rated financial services 
organization in North America. 
These accomplishments are a testament to the talent and 
commitment of our people, and we are grateful to them. 
It’s because of them that we were able to succeed in the 
face of challenge in 2020. We are confident in the 
tomorrow that we can build together.
Sincerely,
James O’Sullivan
President and Chief Executive Officer“With the events of 2020 demonstrating how quickly 
systemic issues can turn the world upside down, there’s 
growing momentum to build a tomorrow that’s more 
equitable, inclusive and sustainable for all stakeholders, 
including shareholders. We are committed to being part  
of this movement.” Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting7
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportQ&A with our VP, Finance and Corporate Sustainability
Interview with Andrea Carlson
Why is sustainability important to IGM’s success?
Sustainability is important to us for a number of reasons. Among 
them, there’s growing recognition that businesses need to take  
a more active role in addressing the world’s biggest sustainable 
development challenges to build momentum and put capital 
behind solving social and environmental challenges. Ourbusiness 
can only thrive over the long-run in a sustainable world.
In addition, we see more and more evidence that companies that 
perform well on material environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) topics have superior financial performance and create  
more value for their stakeholders over the long-term. We also 
hold ourselves to the same standard that we expect from 
companies in our investment portfolios.
Finally, we take our role very seriously in being a positive force  
for the success of our clients, our people, our communities and 
our shareholders. It’s part of who we are – taking a long-term  
view for our business and all of our stakeholders.
What trends are expected to have the greatest  
impact on IGM’s sustainability strategy?
Some of the most influential trends for us are technology 
advancement and digitization, the changing demographics  
of customers and employees, and systemic risks such as  
climate change and racism. There’s also a greater focus on 
stakeholder capitalism, whereby companies create long-term 
value for their shareholders – and for their employees, clients, 
communities and the planet.At IGM, we’re having more conversations around ESG  
with investors and analysts, seeing increased interest from  
clients on sustainable investing, and engaging more frequently 
with employees and others on environmental and social issues. 
It’s inspiring to see the momentum behind this deeper view  
of business.
How has IGM recently advanced its approach  
to sustainability, and how has this affected  
its governance, culture and reputation?
We’ve integrated sustainability further into our business  
strategy over the past few years, in three focus areas:  
advancing our diversity, equity and inclusion strategy; growing  
our sustainable investing practices; and building the financial 
confidence of Canadians. 
We are at a place now where ESG issues are considered more 
broadly through our company and are a regular part of 
conversations and business decisions. For our efforts, we have 
been recognized as a leader by organizations like CDP and 
Corporate Knights, and by ESG rating agencies. More recently,  
we were identified as disclosure leaders by sell-side analysts.
We are also seeing increasing interest in our sustainability 
strategy among new recruits, and increased participation in our 
employee green committees and Partners in Action teams.
“We are at a place 
now where ESG issues 
are considered more 
broadly through  
our company and  
are a regular part of 
conversations and 
business decisions.”Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting8
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportWhat’s more, the growth in sustainable investing is  
being recognized through our industry, with Mackenzie’s 
sustainable solutions funds gaining attention and flows. 
It’s a fascinating time to be in the corporate 
sustainability team. 
What impact do you think the COVID-19 
pandemic will have on companies’ sustainability 
practices going forward?
The long-term impacts of COVID-19 are impossible to 
predict, with its full human and economic toll yet to be 
known. The past year has shown how vulnerable the 
world is to fast-moving, systemic shocks, and how 
important it is for businesses to be prepared. It has  
also raised awareness of ESG issues and shown how 
interconnected people, the economy and the 
environment are to one another.Companies were already paying attention to issues like 
climate change and board diversity, but now, as a result 
of COVID-19, there’s increased attention on disaster 
preparedness, cyber security, and employee benefits 
and wellness.
We have also seen how governments, business and 
humanity can work together, which demonstrates the 
power of working collaboratively to tackle other 
sustainability issues in the world.
What are your sustainability priorities for the 
next few years?
We want to build on our current priority areas: building 
financial confidence of Canadians, being a leader in 
sustainable investing and accelerating diversity, equity 
and inclusion (DE&I) in the financial services industry.Like most financial service companies, climate change is  
a focus area, and we are committed to the Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
recommendations. We’re collaborating more across IGM 
and externally to address this complex and significant 
issue, including with our sustainable investing teams.
We plan to enhance our goals and key performance 
indicators, and increase the engagement of employees, 
clients, advisors, shareholders and other stakeholders  
to inform future strategy and purpose. Both as an issuer 
and as an investor, we’re also interested in the increasing 
emphasis on comparable and timely ESG data, and are 
working on how we can better provide and access data in 
a number of ways.
“At IGM, we’re having more conversations around ESG with
investors and analysts, seeing increased interest from clients  
on sustainable investing, and engaging more frequently with 
employees and others on environmental and social issues.  
It’s inspiring to see the momentum behind this deeper view  
of business.”Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting9
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportSustainability strategyOur sustainability strategy keeps us focused on what matters most to our 
business and our stakeholders, and seeks to accelerate positive change in areas 
where we – as wealth and asset managers – can make the greatest impact.
Our sustainability strategy keeps us focused on what 
matters most to our business and our stakeholders, 
and seeks to accelerate positive change in areas where 
we – as wealth and asset managers – can make the 
greatest impact. 
MATERIAL ESG TOPICS
BUILDING FINANCIAL CONFIDENCE ACCELERATING DE&I IN FINANCE
GROWING SUSTAINABLE INVESTING
HIGHLY TRUSTED COMPANIES
THE BEST PLACES TO WORKFOCUS AREAS
Being responsibly managed companies that consider social, economic and environmental 
impacts, and empowering employees to thrive as we pursue sustainable growth.BUILDING FINANCIAL CONFIDENCE
Oﬀering resources and expertise to help Canadians feel conﬁdent about 
their ﬁnances, so they can achieve their goals and own their ﬁnancial future.
GROWING SUSTAINABLE INVESTING
Advancing sustainable investing practices to generate positive outcomes 
for our clients’ portfolios and the world around us. 
ACCELERATING DIVERSITY, EQUITY 
AND INCLUSION (DE&I) IN FINANCE
Breaking down barriers in our industry for women; individuals who are Black, 
Indigenous and People of Colour; and other traditionally disadvantaged groups. 
BEING HIGHLY TRUSTED COMPANIES AND 
THE BEST PLACES TO WORK Sustainable investingMATERIAL ESG TOPICS
KEY PRIORITIES FOUNDATION OF TRUST
Diversity, equity 
and inclusionFinancial conﬁdence
Community support
Environmental footprintClient experience
Governance
Risk management
Ethics and compliance
Information security and privacyTalent and culture
Climate changeIndex 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting10
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportMaterial ESG topics
To succeed as a company, we need to identify, understand and 
manage the ESG topics that matter most to our stakeholders and 
our business. Guided by the GRI Standards, we conduct a process 
annually to identify and prioritize relevant social, environmental, 
governance and economic topics. 
When identifying topics, we consider 
emerging trends and issues relevant to  
our industry – including sector-relevant 
topics addressed by peers, the GRI 
Standards, SASB Standards and TCFD 
recommendations. We also consider 
issues raised in public discussions and 
through our interactions with ESG 
rating  agencies. 
Our prioritization of topics considers  
input from both internal and external 
stakeholders, including feedback from  
our business leaders and the Corporate 
Sustainability Committee. While most of 
our stakeholder engagement takes place 
on a day-to-day basis through regular 
interactions, we also employ formal 
methods of engagement such as surveys, 
forums and meetings. Examples of topics 
raised in 2020 through stakeholder 
engagement are provided on pages 11  
and 12. The outcome of our process is a list  
of current material ESG topics that we  
include in our sustainability strategy and 
report. See the Sustainability Strategy 
section ( page 9 ) for information on our 
current ESG topics.
As a result of our 2020 conversations, we 
have adjusted our reporting and integrated 
content related to client experience 
policies, metrics and performance into 
relevant sections of this report. Aspects  
of client experience, including our wealth 
and asset management strategies and 
achievements, are also discussed in 
our 2020 Annual Report . 
Due to the interconnectedness of  
climate change, discussions on this topic 
can be found in the Risk Management, 
Sustainable Investing and Environmental 
Footprint sections of this report, and in  
the TCFD Reporting in the Appendix. MATERIALITY PROCESS 
External disclosure frameworks (GRI, SASB, TCFD)
List of potential ESG topicsAssess material topics from ESG rating 
agencies, industry & emerging trends
Business strategy & leader interviews
Corporate Sustainability management team
and Committee reviewStakeholder feedback mechanismsIdentify ESG Topics
Assess and set priorities
Current Material ESG Topics
Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting11
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportEngaging with stakeholders
We recognize that regular, open communication – through formal and informal channels – is critical for responding to our 
stakeholders’ views and concerns and developing effective business strategies. 
Clients
HOW WE ENGAGE
• Annual client and advisor surveys
• Client service call centres
• Advisory panels and focus groups
• In-person and virtual communications
See page 13 for details on how we gather  
feedback from our clients.
KEY TOPICS IN 2020
• Providing advice through volatile markets
• Enabling understanding and access to  
government support programs
• Financial hardship support
• Sustainable investingShareholders 
HOW WE ENGAGE
• Annual Meeting
• Quarterly earnings calls
• Conferences and road shows
• Investor/analyst meetings, ad hoc  
communications
• ESG rating firm responses and discussions 
• Board engagement mechanisms
KEY TOPICS IN 2020
• Segmented reporting
• Climate change and ESG disclosure
• Enhancing governance disclosuresEmployees 
HOW WE ENGAGE
• Regular surveys and focus groups
• Employee forums, intranets
• Performance and development discussions
• Email bulletins
• Virtual team meetings/townhalls with  
local leadership
• Q&A webcasts with executives
KEY TOPICS IN 2020
• Business/performance updates
• Physical and mental health and wellness
• Guidance for working from home,  
including technology training
• Diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I)  
events and training
Disclosure enhancements
In 2020, we made disclosure enhancements to our financial reporting, including realigning our reportable 
segments, to make it easier for investors to understand our business lines and respective key performance drivers.Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting12
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability Report
Engaging with stakeholders  continued
Financial advisors
HOW WE ENGAGE
• Surveys, meetings, focus groups
• Client service teams and call centres
• Conferences, training, webinars
• Online collaboration platforms
KEY TOPICS IN 2020
• Client service products and new digital tools
• Guidance for working from home, including 
technology training
• Practice management training
• DE&I events
• Health and wellness
• Community supportIndustry partners
HOW WE ENGAGE
• Memberships on regulatory committees  
and industry bodies
• Participation on regulatory roundtables,  
public submissions, industry working groups  
and technical committees
• Meetings, conferences and events
KEY TOPICS IN 2020
• Privacy, including the General Data  
Protection Regulation, Bill C-11
• CFA Institute’s consultation on disclosure  
standards for ESG investment products
• Seniors and vulnerable clients 
• DE&I
• CSA client-focused reforms implementation, 
enhancing know your client (KYC), know your  
product (KYP) and suitability obligationsCommunities
HOW WE ENGAGE
• Community partnership meetings, events
• Community workshops
• Focus groups, sustainability networks
• Financial literacy initiatives and programs
KEY TOPICS IN 2020
• Financial planning
• Financial literacy
• Shifting to virtual fundraising events
• Supporting communities through  
COVID-19 volatilityIndex 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting13
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportSurveying clients and advisors
IG regularly surveys clients to 
measure various aspects of their 
relationship with our company, their 
advisor and their experience with 
financial planning. The results are 
used to align employee and advisor 
compensation with client satisfaction. 
Select clients also share their insights 
and ideas with senior leadership 
through a client advisory council 
chaired by the Executive Vice-
President, General Counsel. Through 
separate quarterly satisfaction 
surveys, we gather feedback from 
financial advisors about the quality of 
their business relationship with us. 
90% 
90% of IG clients agreed that 
their advisor genuinely cares 
about their needs, with 73% 
giving their advisor the highest  
possible score in 2020.IPC surveys its network of financial 
advisors three times a year. The 
survey results feed into an Advisor 
Satisfaction Index, giving advisors 
voice and providing us with insights 
into what’s important for our advisors 
and how we can help them build 
better businesses. The results 
captured through this index also 
influence employees’ year-end 
compensation and give us a Net 
Promoter Score, which measures the 
likelihood that an IPC advisor would 
recommend the firm to another 
advisor in the industry.
3.92/5
IPC Advisor Service Index  
rose from 3.68 out of 5 in  
2019 to 3.92 in 2020.At Mackenzie , advisor satisfaction 
is measured through the annual 
Environics Advisor Perception Study 
(APS). This is the most comprehensive 
tracking study of Canada’s mutual 
fund and insurance companies and is 
a valuable benchmark that provides 
vital information on how each 
company is perceived by the advisors 
who distribute their products. 
8-10 out of 10
In proprietary COVID-19 surveys 
conducted with advisors in the 
spring and fall of 2020, Mackenzie 
maintained a rating of 8–10 
out of 10 for “overall quality of 
contact” and “was helpful or 
added value.” ISSUE RESOLUTION 
Should issues arise, our operating 
companies have formal procedures to 
handle written or verbal complaints from 
clients. These procedures are guided by 
the principles of fairness, timeliness and 
reasonability in their assessment of  
each issue. 
Each client’s first point of resolution is their 
advisor. Call centres at each company 
assist with routine inquiries and 
complaints. When problems are escalated, 
the resolution process includes a thorough 
examination of the complaint by dedicated 
compliance professionals. The investigator 
contacts the client and conducts a 
personalized review of the client’s concern. 
Upon completion, the client receives a 
written summary of the investigation. If  
 a client has a complaint regarding their 
accounts that cannot be resolved to their 
satisfaction, they may also contact the 
Ombudsman for Banking Services and 
Investments in writing through its website 
at www.obsi.ca . 
Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting14
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportSustainable Development Goals
Created in 2015, the  
United Nations’ Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) are  
a call for all countries to work 
together to end poverty, protect 
the planet and ensure that all 
people are able to enjoy peace 
and prosperity by 2030.
With less than a decade left to achieve the 
SDGs, and the global pandemic threatening 
progress, strong action is needed across 
business and societies to put the world on a 
more sustainable path. While we contribute 
directly and indirectly to each of the 
17 goals, we’ve identified five that are most 
relevant to our business and where we 
believe we can make our greatest 
contributions.SDG Our contributions
Inspiring financial confidence through expert financial planning advice backed by superior products and 
services, as well as community partnerships to promote financial literacy. See Financial Confidence, page 34 . 
Empowering women by implementing targeted strategies for recruiting women and enabling their upward 
mobility, and by supporting external initiatives such as the United Nations’ Women’s Empowerment Principles 
and organizations focused on women in finance such as Catalyst, GATE and Women in Capital Markets. 
See Diversity, Equity and Inclusion, page 53 . 
Managing climate change risks and opportunities through our risk management and sustainable investing 
processes, engaging with investee companies on their climate change issues, reducing our environmental 
footprint, and demonstrating transparency in climate-related disclosures. See Risk Management, page 27 ; 
Sustainable Investing, page 38 ; and Environmental Footprint, page  61. 
Playing a role in Canada’s financial services sector through our leadership in a number of regulatory, 
governance and standards associations, which work in the interests of the investing public. See Governance, 
page 20 ; Ethics and Compliance, page 23 ; and Sustainable Investing, page 38 . 
Achieving the goals requires multi-stakeholder collaboration and partnerships. Our joint commitments  
and collaborations are identified throughout this report and include initiatives such as the Principles for 
Responsible Investment (PRI), the Women’s Empowerment Principles, the Task Force for Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures and Imagine Canada’s Caring Companies program. See Memberships and Initiatives, 
page  16. Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting15
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportCreating shared  value
By responsibly providing financial planning services and investment solutions, we help Canadians reach their financial goals and 
create economic value for our shareholders, employees, financial advisors and partners. We also contribute to a healthy financial 
system and healthy communities – for the benefit of all Canadians. See the IGM Annual Report  for more information. 
2020 economic value distributed
REVENUE
$3,018MADVISORS
$788M in sales 
commissions paid  SHAREHOLDERS
$536M in annual  
dividends paidSUPPLIERS
$589M in goods and  
services purchase d
EMPLOYEES
$556M in 
compensation  
and benefits paidTAX
$201M in taxes paid  
almost entirely in  
CanadaCOMMUNITIES
$9M in community 
investments  
across CanadaECONOMIC 
VALUE 
RETAINED
$228M
Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting16
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportMemberships and initiatives
All operating companies have signed a 
pledge through the BlackNorth Initiative , 
led by the Canadian Council of Business 
Leaders Against Anti-Black Systemic 
Racism, which commits them to take action 
to help end anti-Black systemic racism. Mackenzie has signed on to Climate 
Action 100+ , an investor-led initiative  
to ensure the world’s largest corporate 
greenhouse gas emitters take action on 
climate  change. IG will be joining in 2021.We report annually to CDP  on our  
energy use and greenhouse gas  
emission performance. Imagine Canada  recognizes both  
IG and Mackenzie as Caring Companies, 
committing at least 1% of their average 
annual pre-tax profit to charitable/non-
profit organizations.
IG signed Winnipeg’s Indigenous  
Accord  as part of our commitment  
to the journey of truth and  
reconciliation.IGM and its operating companies are 
partners of Pride at Work Canada ,  
which empowers employers to build 
workplaces that celebrate all employees 
regardless of gender expression, gender 
identity and sexual orientation. The United Nations–supported  
Principles for Responsible Investment  
(PRI) initiative is an international network 
of investors, investment managers and 
other professionals who work together  
 to put into practice six principles for 
responsible investment. IG and  
Mackenzie are  signatories. IG and Mackenzie are members of the 
Responsible Investment Association  
(RIA), which believes that the integration  
of ESG factors into the selection and 
management of investments can provide 
superior risk-adjusted returns and positive 
societal impact. 
Mackenzie is a member of the SASB 
Allianc e program, along with other 
organizations that want to develop  
and explore best practices to integrate 
material sustainability information into 
existing processes. IGM and its operating companies signed 
statements of support for the Task  
Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosure s (TCFD), which includes a set  
of recommendations for financial market 
participants to understand and disclose 
climate-related risks and opportunities. The Women’s Empowerment  
Principles  offer guidance for  
businesses looking to empower  
women in the workplace, marketplace  
and community. IG, Mackenzie and  
IPC are signatories. 
Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting17
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportAwards and recognition
We were recognized by CDP  at the leadership level  
for our climate disclosures for the fourth consecutive  
year. In 2018 and 2019, we earned a spot on CDP’s 
prestigious A List.We were ranked among Corporate Knights’ 2021  
Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations  in the  
world, landing at #29 overall, and were the top-rated 
investment services company globally and the top-rated 
financial services organization in North America. We were included in Corporate Knights’ Best 50  
Corporate Citizens in Canada for 2020. The ranking  
was based on our commitment to sustainability within  
15 key performance indicators, covering resource, 
employee and financial management.
We are one of the 50 constituents of the Jantzi  
Social Index , consisting of Canadian companies  
that pass a set of broadly based ESG rating criteria. We are a member of the FTSE4GoodInde x, an equity 
index series that is designed to facilitate investment in  
companies that meet globally recognized corporate 
responsibility standards.
“We’re very proud to be recognized for our 
sustainability practices and disclosures. We hold 
ourselves to the same standard we expect from  
the companies we invest in on behalf of our clients.”  
Luke Gould, Chief Financial Officer, IGM FinancialIndex 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting18
Earning and  
sustaining trust
Exemplary business conduct, 
effective governance and rigorous 
risk management are the foundation 
of everything we do and the reason 
clients put their trust in us. This is 
something we never take for granted 
and continually work to strengthen.
PRIORITY TOPICS
Governance
Ethics and compliance
Risk management
Information security and privacy
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportIndex 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting19
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability Report2020 highlights
Amid the extraordinary challenges of 2020, robust governance, compliance processes and preparedness enabled our nimble 
response and continued strong performance.
COVID-19 Committee 
Executive COVID-19 Committee and 
special Board meetings facilitated fast 
decision making and direction setting, 
keeping our people and clients safeRisk Committee 
Formed a Board-level Risk  
Committee to strengthen our  
risk management practicesEmergency 
preparedness 
Performed regular simulation testing 
of emergency preparedness plans in 
January – and activated them two 
months later when the pandemic hit
Enhanced training 
Provided enhanced training for 
employees and field members on  
anti-money laundering, anti-corruption 
and anti-bribery, which helped protect 
the privacy and security of client 
information while people were  
working remotelySay on pay  
advisory vote
Will be adopting a system to  
provide for a non-binding shareholder 
advisory vote on our approach to 
executive compensation in 2022Code of Conduct
100% of employees acknowledge  
our Code of Conduct annually
Emergency
preparedness
Anti-corruption
Shareholder advisory vote 
 Shareholder advisory vote Code of Conduct
100% of employees 
acknowledge
Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting20
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportGovernance
We believe that strong governance 
practices promote the accountability, 
transparency and responsible decision 
making needed to support our business 
and to be an industry leader over the 
long- term. 
The effectiveness of our corporate governance starts  
with our Board of Directors, which provides oversight  
of the business so we grow responsibly. The Board has 
established robust governance structures, processes  
and practices to perform its duties effectively, which are 
essentially the same for our two major operating units:  
IG and Mackenzie. Among its responsibilities, the Board 
monitors whether our subsidiaries are fulfilling their 
governance obligations. 
The Board has put in place structures and procedures  
to ensure its independence from management and to 
ensure that conflicts of interest between our company 
and any related entities, including our  company’s  
majority shareholder, are dealt with  appropriately. 
The Board and Senior Management Diversity, Equity  
and Inclusion Policy requires that diversity dimensions  
be considered along with experience in the director 
nomination process so as to achieve the optimum 
composition and balance for the Board. As part of its approach, the Board has a diversity objective for  
each gender to represent at least 30% of directors by  
calendar-end 2021. Since the adoption of the policy in 
2016, 71% of vacant Board positions have been filled by 
women directors and the percentage of women on the 
Board has exceeded the objective, rising from 12.5% in 
2016 to 33% in 2020. 
RELATED PUBLICATIONS 
Management Proxy Circular
Statement of Corporate Governance Practices
Corporate Sustainability StatementIndex 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting21
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportCorporate sustainability governance 
Our Board has approved a Corporate 
Sustainability Statement , which 
formalizes our longstanding commitment 
to corporate sustainability. The Board 
monitors implementation of the policy  
 and our corporate sustainability strategy, 
and discusses corporate sustainability 
plans and ESG issues at least annually. 
Our Corporate Sustainability Committee, 
consisting of senior executives, is 
responsible for ensuring the 
implementation of the Board’s Corporate 
Sustainability Statement and our 
sustainability strategy, as well as the 
approval of annual reporting. The 
Committee reports to the Board annually 
or as necessary where critical concerns 
arise, and no such concerns were raised  
in 2020.
The leaders of our various business units 
have primary ownership and accountability 
for identifying and managing ESG risks  
and opportunities across the business. 
Supporting the Corporate Sustainability 
Committee is a Corporate Sustainability 
Management Team responsible for 
reporting, stakeholder engagement and 
collaborating with business leaders to 
advance ESG-related initiatives. Team 
members also meet regularly with colleagues across the Power Corporation 
of Canada group of companies to align 
commitments and share knowledge on 
best practices. 
Also supporting the Corporate 
Sustainability Committee are a variety of 
committees with focused environmental 
and social mandates. Some examples of 
the current supporting committees are: 
• IGM Diversity, Equity and Inclusion 
(DE&I) Executive Council, which provides 
leadership and strategy regarding our 
internal DE&I focus and Board interests
• IGM Green Council, which oversees 
continuous environmental 
improvements to business operations 
and works with committed teams of 
employee volunteers to improve 
sustainability efforts at work and  
at home
• Sustainable investing committees,  
which consist of cross-functional leaders 
working to advance ESG incorporation 
into the products and services of the 
individual operating companies
• TCFD Working Group, which leads 
our implementation of the 
recommendations of the Financial 
Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE 
IGM Corporate Sustainability
CommitteeBoard of Directors
CEO of 
Entity
Power/ 
Great-West 
 Lifeco/ 
IGM Financ ial 
Working 
 GroupDE&I Council
Green Council
Sustainable 
Investing 
CommitteesCorporate 
Sustainability
Managem ent 
TeamAll IGM  
Business  
Leaders
TCFD Working 
Group 
Our Corporate Sustainability Committee, 
consisting of senior executives, is responsible 
for ensuring the implementation of the 
Board’s Corporate Sustainability Statement 
and our sustainability strategy, as well as the 
approval of annual reporting.Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting22
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportRecent enhancements 
Having conducted a review of our governance and 
disclosure practices in 2019, we began implementing 
changes in 2020 and 2021, which included the following:
• Updated our Board and Senior Management Diversity 
Policy by adopting a broader definition of diversity – 
which includes women, Indigenous people, persons  
with disabilities and members of visible minorities –  
in line with amendments to the Canada Business 
Corporations Act
• Adopted a target for 30% minimum representation  
of either gender on the Board
• Implemented a Compensation Claw Back Policy in 2020 
and will be adopting a Say on Pay advisory vote in 2022 
• Enhanced disclosures in our 2020 and 2021 
Management Proxy Circulars regarding executive 
compensation and Board processes, including director 
education and formal Board evaluationResponsible ownership 
We operate through a number of different businesses. 
When considering potential acquisitions, we conduct a 
robust business assessment to identify the potential  
long-term risks and opportunities of the investment.  
ESG factors are considered in this process. 
We oversee our investments through an active ownership 
approach where our executives sit on the boards of 
directors of the companies we control or in which we 
strategically invest. Through regular interaction with the 
senior management and boards of these companies,  
we engage on ESG issues to ensure that our investments 
are being managed in a manner consistent with our responsible management philosophy and Corporate 
Sustainability Statement. 
Our operating companies also take a responsible 
approach when investing money on behalf of our clients.
In 2020, Mackenzie acquired Greenchip Financial Corp.,  
an environmental investment firm founded in 2007 on  
a thesis that changing demographics, resource scarcity  
and environmental degradation would drive historic 
opportunities and new risks for investors. Mackenzie  
also acquired an interest in Northleaf Capital Partners  
and acquired GLC, and both companies share our values 
and our commitment to sustainable investing.
New target for 30%  
minimum representation  
of either gender on  
the Board 
Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting23
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportEthics and compliance
As a financial services company, we have legal and ethical responsibilities to act in our 
clients’ best interests. Moreover, we see exemplary business conduct as essential for 
upholding our company’s reputation and maintaining public and investor trust in our 
industry and in the Canadian financial  system.
We have robust compliance policies, programs and 
controls across our operating companies, which are 
regularly assessed and updated to keep pace with 
changes in business models, client expectations and 
regulatory requirements. In developing new products  
and services, we conduct thorough reviews to ensure  
 a deep understanding of the related legal obligations  
and our capacity to fulfill them. 
Our Code of Conduct (Code) is the foundation for all of  
our activities and our guide for ethical conduct. The Code 
is distributed annually to all of our directors, officers and 
employees for review and acknowledgement. Employees 
also complete annual compliance training to remind them 
of requirements under our privacy, anti-money laundering 
and anti-terrorist financing, anti-corruption and anti-
bribery, and whistleblower policies. At the end of the 
training, they must acknowledge that they understand 
their obligations and agree to comply with them.
Along with the Code, our Advisor Code of Conduct  
and Supplier Code of Conduct have similar provisions  
and expectations with regard to ethical conduct. Our Whistleblower Policy encourages employees  
and others to report suspected violations of laws, 
regulations, the Code or IGM policies. The policy outlines  
a confidential  process for raising concerns, including a 
24/7  whistleblower hotline and website, and a detailed 
process for investigations where warranted. 
Our Conflicts of Interest Committee was formally 
established in 2018 to enhance our identification,  
review and resolution of potential conflicts of interest 
across our operating companies. Working closely with 
business leaders, the committee fulfills its role through 
education and the promotion of governance and  
oversight processes.
In 2020, we introduced a number of harmonized IGM-level 
compliance policies to achieve greater consistency across 
our operating companies and allow for better supervision 
by our Compliance team. In response to the COVID-19 
pandemic, the Compliance team also carefully reviewed 
new virtual sales practices programs – such as webinars 
involving clients – as well as operational changes and new 
financial hardship programs for clients to ensure 
regulatory  compliance.WHO HAS RESPONSIBILITY:
Our Chief Compliance Officer has overall 
responsibility for compliance matters and 
provides regular reports to our Financial 
Audit Committee. Separate boards and 
committees at the operating company–level 
also oversee investment management and 
distribution compliance of our funds. 
RELATED PUBLICATIONS 
Code of Conduct
Supplier Code of Conduct
Whistleblower Policy
Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Policy
Privacy Policy
Lobbying Policy
Anti-Money Laundering PolicyIndex 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting24
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportAnti-money laundering and anti-terrorist 
financing 
Our enterprise-wide anti-money laundering (AML) and 
anti-terrorist financing (ATF) compliance program is 
designed to detect, deter and report money laundering 
and terrorist financing. The overarching AML Policy 
applies to all subsidiary companies and ensures that the 
most stringent of either Canadian or local AML regulations 
apply to our global subsidiaries. 
Elements of our AML and ATF compliance program  
include the following:
• Designation of a Chief Anti-Money Laundering Officer
• Risk assessments of each IGM company, including an 
assessment of affiliate risk
• Monitoring and reporting related to suspicious 
transactions, large cash transactions, terrorist  
property and sanctions screening
• Training delivered to new hires and annually to all 
employees. Topics include our key AML/ATF obligations; 
how we could be vulnerable to such activities; 
employees’ role in preventing, detecting and deterring 
such activities; and how to report suspicious activity.
• Independent effectiveness reviews of our program,  
its policies and procedures, risk assessments, training 
and recordkeeping
The effectiveness of our program is tested regularly  
to ensure compliance with applicable regulations and 
guidance set out by the Financial Transactions and 
Reports Analysis Centre of Canada (FINTRAC) and  
other applicable regulatory bodies. Anti-corruption and anti-bribery 
While local standards and practices may vary as to what 
constitutes bribery, we maintain a high standard that can 
be summarized as follows: employees may not provide  
(or offer to provide), directly or indirectly, anything of  
value to anyone to get business or retain business, to 
obtain a commercial advantage, or to receive favoured 
treatment, anywhere in the world. In 2020, we simplified the language of our Anti-Corruption 
and Anti-Bribery Policy to make it easier for our people to 
follow. We also added a module to our annual compliance 
training program to raise awareness of the policy and 
promote understanding of specific aspects. In particular, 
we focused on what is and isn’t acceptable when it comes 
to gifts and hospitality. 
All of our operations are assessed for risks related to 
corruption, and no critical concerns were raised in 2020. EMPLOYEE TRAINING ADDRESSES KEY OBLIGATIONS UNDER OUR AML/ATF PROGRAM
Key 
ObligationsSuspicious and attempted suspicious 
transaction reporting
Terrorist property reporting
Ascertaining client identity, beneﬁcial ownership 
and third-party determinations
Business relationship and client due diligence 
recordkeeping
Risk assessments
Politically Exposed (foreign and domestic) Person 
(PEP) and Head of International Organization (HIO) 
determinationsIndex 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting25
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportPolitical involvement 
Our Code of Conduct and our Anti-Corruption and  
Anti-Bribery Policy describe our positions on political 
contributions and lobbying. 
In 2020, we further clarified our positioning on lobbying 
through a new IGM Lobbying Policy, which establishes  
a framework for compliance with lobbying legal 
requirements and outlines employee and Board  
activity and approval processes.
Our company’s money, assets, property or other things  
of value may not be contributed, loaned or made available 
to any candidate, party or political committee. While we 
may, from time to time, make charitable contributions, 
under no circumstances should charitable contributions 
be made in an attempt to influence any decision or  
obtain an advantage. 
In addition, while we support and respect employees’ 
right to participate in the political process, they are 
prohibited from using company funds, goods or services 
as contributions to, or for the benefit of, candidates or 
political organizations in Canada. 
Responsible marketing and sales
IGM operating companies are subject to securities 
legislation addressing marketing and sales 
communications. 
Sales communications related to investment funds  
are regulated by National Instrument 81-102 , which has 
prescriptive rules about when and how performance data can be included, required disclosures and warnings, 
advertisements and more. The guiding principle is that  
all communications must provide full, true and plain 
disclosure, with nothing misleading. Overly predictive 
language, unsubstantiated claims and unfair comparisons 
are not permitted. In addition, every fund facts document 
delivered to investors prior to purchasing a fund must 
show the fund’s best and worst three-month returns.
To promote compliance, our Legal team has produced a 
marketing materials guidance booklet for our Marketing teams, provides training to these teams, and reviews  
and approves all materials before they can be used. 
Our securities dealers are bound by similar advertising 
and sales communication rules set out by the Mutual 
Fund Dealers Association of Canada and the Investment 
Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada.
National Instrument 81-105  regulates investment fund sales 
practices and related compensation arrangements, and 
we have established sales practices, policies and 
procedures to ensure compliance with it.
Treena Nault, Winnipeg-based Financial Advisor for IG Wealth ManagementIndex 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting26
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportKnowing our clients and products 
Financial advisors affiliated with IG and IPC acquire a deep 
understanding of clients’ financial and personal situations 
to design investment portfolios that will help their clients 
meet their financial goals. Their process follows strict, 
internal know your client (KYC) and know your product 
(KYP) rules to ensure the suitability of the investments 
they recommend. Mackenzie distributes its products 
through third-party advisors and dealers who are subject 
to their internal rules.
With the Canadian Securities Administrators’ Reforms to 
Enhance the Client-Registrant Relationship  (Client Focused 
Reforms) coming into full effect by the end of 2021, we are 
well prepared. These reforms require firms to put clients 
first when discharging their KYC, KYP and suitability 
obligations; address material conflicts of interest in the 
best interest of the client; and do more to clarify for clients 
what they should expect from their dealers and advisors. 
Our financial advisors follow 
strict, internal know your client 
(KYC) and know your product 
(KYP) rules to ensure the 
suitability of the investments 
they recommend to their 
clients.We provide key executive leadership to support Canada’s financial services sector through roles in many 
organizations, including: 
Canadian Coalition for Good 
Governance 
Canadian Life Insurance Standards 
Association 
Chambre de la Sécurité Financière 
The Conference Board of Canada Conseil des fonds d’investissement 
du Québec (CFIQ) 
Fundserv Inc. 
Investment Funds Institute of 
Canada 
Investment Industry Association of 
Canada Investment Industry Regulatory 
Organization of Canada 
Mutual Fund Dealers Association 
of Canada
Ombudsman for Banking Services 
and  Investments
Ontario Securities CommissionIndex 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting27
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportRisk management
Our company is exposed to a variety of risks that are inherent in our business activities – 
some are traditional financial risks while others, like climate change and cyber security, 
are newer and growing. Our ability to manage these risks is key to our ongoing success.
Our risk management approach is carried out through  
our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Framework, which 
includes five core elements: risk governance, risk appetite, 
risk principles, a defined risk management process and 
our risk management culture. The ERM Framework is 
established under our ERM Policy, which is approved by 
the Executive Risk Management Committee, and aligns 
with industry best practices, including the COSO 
Enterprise Risk Management and Internal Control-
Integrated Frameworks. 
Responsibility for risk management is assigned using  
the “Three Lines of Defence” model, with the first line 
reflecting the business units having primary responsibility 
for risk management, supported by second-line risk 
management functions and a third-line internal audit 
function providing assurance and validation of the  
design and effectiveness of the ERM Framework.
Significant risks that may adversely affect our ability  
 to achieve our strategic and business objectives are 
identified and assessed through our ongoing risk 
management process, using a consistent methodology 
across our organizations and business units. The ERM 
department promotes and coordinates communication 
and consultation to support effective risk management 
and escalation. The ERM department regularly reports on the results of risk assessments and on the assessment 
process to the executive and Board risk committees. 
In 2020, a Board-level Risk Committee was established  
to assist the Board in reviewing and overseeing our risk 
governance structure and risk management program.  
Its responsibilities include ensuring that appropriate 
procedures are in place to identify and manage risks  
and establish risk tolerances; ensuring that appropriate 
policies, procedures and controls are implemented to 
manage risks; and reviewing the risk management  
process on a regular basis to confirm that it is  
functioning effectively.
Responsibility for risk management is assigned using  
the “Three Lines of Defence” model, with the first line 
reflecting the business units having primary responsibility 
for risk management, supported by second-line risk 
management functions and a third-line internal audit 
function providing assurance and validation of the  
design and effectiveness of the ERM Framework.WHO HAS RESPONSIBILITY:
The Risk Committee of the Board provides 
primary oversight of the ERM Framework. 
Our executive Risk Management Committee 
is responsible for management oversight  
of the Framework and is accountable to the 
Board’s Risk Committee. 
Additional oversight is provided by the  
ERM department, compliance group and 
internal audit department. The Chief 
Executive Officers of the operating 
companies have overall responsibility  
for overseeing risk management of their 
respective companies. Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting28
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability Report
Risk governance
Board of Directors
Risk CommitteeSpecific risk  
oversight 
responsibilities
IGM Risk Management Committee
(CEOs – IGM, IG and Mackenzie, CFO, General Counsel, COO, EVP Chief Strategy & Corporate Development Officer, CHRO)
CEO of Entity (IG, Mackenzie, IPC)Management 
oversight of ERM 
Program
ERM oversight of 
specific entities 
Leaders of 
Business AreasRisk Oversight Functions
ERM  
Department
ComplianceERM Process Support
Financial Risk Management  
(FRM) Committee
Operational Risk Management 
(ORM) CommitteeInternal Audit Lines of Defence
1st Line
Primary Responsibility2nd Line
Oversight & Support3rd Line
AssuranceIndex 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting29
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportManaging environmental and social risks 
Environmental and social risks are identified as one of  
the five categories of risks within our ERM Framework. 
They include risks related to climate change, biodiversity, 
pollution, waste and the unsustainable use of energy, 
water and other resources, as well as social risks related 
to human rights, labour standards, diversity and inclusion, 
and community impacts. 
The Board’s risk management oversight includes  
ensuring that material environmental and social risks  
are appropriately identified, managed and monitored.  
Our Executive Risk Management Committee provides 
oversight of the risk management process, while other 
management committees, such as the Corporate 
Sustainability Committee, provide oversight of specific 
ESG risks, formalized through our Corporate  
Sustainability Statement. 
Our Supplier Code of Conduct was put in place to address 
environmental and social risks in our supply chain. It 
includes provisions related to human rights and labour 
practices, and to improving environmental performance. 
Our Environmental Policy guides our business strategy  
to include environmental risk considerations in our 
operations and our investments. 
In 2020, we deepened our commitment to integrating 
climate change risk and opportunities into our business by 
continuing to implement the recommendations of the 
Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD). An enterprise-wide TCFD Working Group of senior leaders is leading our efforts. 
The group is focused on enhancing our knowledge and 
tools to quantify climate risks in tandem with our industry, 
further integrating climate into our business strategy and 
product offering for clients, evolving our engagement 
approach with investee companies, and addressing 
increased disclosure expectations. For details, see our 
TCFD disclosure on page 84 .
RELATED PUBLICATIONS 
Board of Directors Charter
Risk Committee Charter
Risk Management section of IGM Annual Report
CDP Report
Supplier Code of Conduct
Environmental Policy
TCFD ReportingIndex 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting30
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportInformation security and privacy 
As our company becomes more digital, our controls and standards are also evolving to 
maintain the high levels of care our clients rightfully expect and to protect our business 
from risks that could compromise confidential information or lead to financial loss, 
reputational damage or regulatory  actions.
We use systems and technology extensively to support 
our business operations and the client and financial 
advisor experience. To manage the associated cyber 
security risks, we have a broad range of company-wide 
programs, policies, training, standards and governance 
processes.
Our cyber security management framework and 
capabilities are benchmarked to industry best practices, 
including the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology (NIST) framework. Key technology policies 
include our Acceptable Use of Technology Standard, which 
outlines our expectations for all employees, advisors and 
contractors with respect to the proper use of technology 
and intellectual property and the protection of cyber 
security. 
Recognizing that the human element is equally important 
in data protection, we have a continuous employee 
security awareness and training program. Knowledge 
sharing is ongoing with regular and continuous mandatory 
training for employees, advisors and contractors. 
Regular internal and third-party assessments of our 
security procedures ensure they remain relevant and effective. These include assessments by the Office of the 
Superintendent of Financial Institutions and the 
Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada. 
As part of a five-year transformation to modernize our 
digital platforms and technology infrastructure, we are 
investing in technologies and partnerships with best-of-
breed global leaders. These actions not only improve our 
operational efficiency and the way we serve our clients, 
they also enhance information security. 
WHO HAS RESPONSIBILITY: 
Our Senior Vice-President, Chief Technology 
and Data Office (CISO) is responsible for all 
aspects of the implementation, 
management and execution of our 
information technology security, risk and 
compliance framework. Our Chief 
Technology and Data Office ensures 
compliance with all relevant application 
security and cyber security standards, and 
applicable laws and regulations. This office 
regularly reports to the Board on our cyber 
risk and information security strategy.  
MAINTAINING INFORMATION SECURITY  
AND PRIVACY IN A CRISIS 
Our business continuity management 
program was put to the test in 2020. Having 
conducted our annual crisis response 
simulation exercise in January, we were able 
to jump into action when the COVID-19 
pandemic hit in March – teams were clear  
on their responsibilities, processes had  
been tested, and our IT network, equipment 
and tools were at the ready. 
With the volume of cyber threats increasing 
during the pandemic, we stepped up our 
cyber-awareness messaging to employees 
and advisors and provided practical guidance 
for protecting confidential information.
We continue to complete security scans and 
IT assessments as people work from home. 
New digital tools were rolled out to enable 
virtual meetings among our people and with 
clients. We also expedited an update to digital 
forms that enables advisors to obtain a client’s 
signature electronically on a fillable form.
The result: we’ve been able to continue 
operations and match our pre-pandemic  
levels of client service.Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting31
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportPrivacy 
Our clients entrust us with their personal information,  
and we have a legal and ethical responsibility to protect  
it. In accordance with Canadian privacy laws, we collect 
only personal information that is necessary to provide  
our products and services to clients, or where we have 
consent to do so. We do not disclose personal information 
about clients unless required by law, when necessary to 
provide products or services to them, or as otherwise 
authorized by them. 
If we need to share clients’ personal information with 
third-party service providers, we remain responsible for 
that information and protect it through contracts that commit the service providers to maintain levels of 
protection comparable to ours.
Our operating companies have comprehensive 
procedures to respond to any privacy breaches, mitigate 
risks and prevent re-occurrence. If a breach is determined 
to pose a real risk of significant harm to a client, we will 
notify the individual, and the federal and/or provincial 
Privacy Commissioner where applicable, in a timely 
manner.
Privacy is covered in our annual, mandatory compliance 
training for employees. Topics include our privacy 
obligations, privacy tips and best practices, and how to handle privacy breaches, complaints and access to 
information requests. Each operating company also has 
its own Privacy Officer, who provides guidance to staff  
and manages our response to privacy concerns. 
While each operating company has its own privacy-related 
procedures relevant to its business, we implemented an 
overarching Privacy Policy applicable across IGM in 2020. 
We also conducted training for advisors and IG field staff 
on handling client privacy and security during the 
pandemic, and issued guidelines to all employees on how 
to protect client personal information and confidential 
business documents while working from  home.
WHO HAS RESPONSIBILITY: 
Our Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) leads 
our privacy program. Reporting to the CCO, 
privacy officers at each company work with 
front-line staff to address privacy matters.
RELATED PUBLICATIONS 
Privacy PolicyIndex 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting32
Helping  
Canadians  
secure their  
financial future
We believe in optimizing the financial well-being 
of Canadians. That’s why we are dedicated to 
helping investors build comprehensive financial 
plans with resilient portfolios that deliver 
sustainable wealth for the long-term.
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportFinancial confidence
Sustainable investingPRIORITY TOPICSIndex 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting33
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability Report2020 highlights
With many clients sharpening their focus on personal finances, we helped them navigate market volatility and stay  
focused on their long-term goals.
For clients facing financial  
hardship due to the pandemic, 
IG waived deferred sales 
charge redemption fees for 
those who needed to withdraw 
money, deferred payments 
on IG mortgages, and helped 
clients and other Canadians 
with  government  programs$5 million 
Launched the IG Empower 
Your Tomorrow Indigenous 
Commitment, dedicating  
$5 million over five years to  
further the financial confidence  
of Indigenous communities  
in Canada275 clients
275 clients attended IG’s  
first-ever sustainable  
investing webinarDiversity and 
inclusion 
Mackenzie and IG signed 
the Responsible Investment 
Association’s Canadian Investor 
Statement on Diversity & Inclusion , 
committing to take intentional steps 
to promote diversity and inclusion 
across our investment funds
Acquired Greenchip Financial 
Corporation to strengthen 
Mackenzie’s in-house expertise  
in thematic environmental  
investing ≥ 200% increase 
≥ 200% increase in number  
of advisors actively selling 
Mackenzie’s sustainable  
solutions 210,000+ clients 
210,000+ clients served through 
IG’s National Service Centre, which 
provides targeted, consistent 
service to clients with accounts 
under $50,000 Expanded ESG 
principles
IPC expanded its ESG principles to 
exclude companies that contravene 
ESG standards or whose operations 
involve anti-social business activities
Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting34
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability Report
Financial confidence
As a wealth and asset management company, one of the best ways we can contribute 
to Canadian society is by offering our resources and expertise to help Canadians feel 
confident about their finances. This way, they can achieve their goals, own their financial 
future and optimize their financial well-being. 
Financial planning and advice
We believe that providing Canadians with the knowledge 
and resources they need to understand their personal 
finances helps them to build a better financial future for 
themselves and their families. With a focus on recruiting 
highly qualified IG and IPC advisors across the country 
who specialize in comprehensive financial planning,  
we increase the financial well-being of Canadians in 
communities from coast to coast. Advisors’ one-on-one 
relationships with clients often span decades, as the advisors work closely with their clients to help them  
meet financial goals at different stages of their lives. 
IG is uniquely positioned to provide personalized financial 
advice that looks at all aspects of clients’ financial lives. 
We focus on meeting the specialized needs of mass 
affluent and high net worth individuals and their families, 
while providing support and financial planning to clients 
with smaller accounts through the IG National Service 
Centre. See Financial Inclusion, page 35 .
Conquest’s financial  
planning platform 
IG has become the first financial services company to select Conquest’s next 
generation financial planning platform. This state-of-the-art digital application 
will use artificial intelligence and real-time collaboration, including “what 
if” scenarios, to help IG advisors and clients work together to navigate the 
complexities of planning and create personalized IG Living Plans.
 
In a year of challenge and uncertainty, in  
which clients were looking for reassurance  
and guidance on how to navigate the financial 
challenges of COVID-19, IG employees and 
advisors worked together to answer the call. 
In return, our clients rewarded us with their 
loyalty and continued investment. 
As part of IG’s Answering the Call program, 
several IG advisors provided no-obligation 
consultations to small-business owners.
Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting35
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportFinancial literacy
With in-person seminars out of the question during 
the pandemic, we had to consider new ways to 
deliver IG Empower Your Tomorrow workshops, 
which provide valuable personal finance training  
to Canadians. 
Having piloted our first virtual workshops in the 
spring, all workshops shifted to the new format  
by late summer and participation rates soared. 
The first, a Money and Youth workshop, aimed at 
IG clients and their high school/college/recently 
graduated children, attracted more than 
260 households. Topics included planning for 
the future, saving and reaching financial goals.
We found that delivering our workshops virtually 
brought with it some unexpected benefits; 
primarily, the ability to reach more people. Where 
seminars were previously limited to 50 people  
or less due to geographical, mobility and venue 
capacity constraints, we could now accommodate 
much larger audiences. The format also enabled 
family members to attend and learn together, 
thereby increasing the financial confidence of  
the whole  family. All told, more than 1,600 households participated 
in Canadian Foundation for Economic Education 
(CFEE)/IG financial literacy workshops in 2020, 
up from less than 1,100 in 2019. 
Financial inclusion
National Service Centre
We firmly believe that building long-term 
relationships with clients is the best way to help 
individuals reach their financial goals – at every 
stage of their lives. Established in 2018, the 
IG National Service Centre (NSC) is a centralized 
service for providing account support and financial 
planning to IG client households with smaller 
accounts, enabling us to offer a targeted, 
consistent and real-time experience. The NSC’s 
licensed financial representatives leverage 
technology to help clients manage their plans  
and investment accounts, and they assist with 
mortgage, banking and insurance needs. As their 
needs evolve, clients have access  to advisors who 
focus on more complicated and sophisticated 
financial  planning. 
CALMING PERSPECTIVES 
Market conditions in the wake of COVID-19 caused 
uncertainty and confusion for investors and advisors. 
Financial advisors were under immense pressure and 
needed support to help keep their clients informed, 
calm and focused on their long-term investment 
goals. With this in mind, Mackenzie ran a campaign 
for advisors, which centred on providing “calming 
perspectives in uncertain markets.” 
Content included videos from Mackenzie’s 
economist, tax experts and CEO; written 
commentaries, podcasts and webcasts to keep 
advisors and Canadians at large up to date with the 
markets and government programs; and – one of 
the most popular pieces – timely charts created by 
the economist and his team.
Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting36
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability Report
Alongside our business activities, we promote financial 
confidence through our community program, IG 
Empower  Your Tomorrow. Through IG advisors, national 
partnerships, community seminars, events and 
educational materials, the program works to remove 
barriers to financial confidence among four traditionally 
underserved groups: 
Indigenous people  – Indigenous people are a vital part  
of our country’s culture, yet many face unique barriers to 
financial confidence on a daily basis. It’s crucial that we  
 set Indigenous families up for a financially successful 
future. We partner with organizations like Opportunities 
for Employment to provide financial education and job 
training to Indigenous people and we fund scholarships 
for Indigenous students with organizations like Indspire. 
In late 2020, we launched the IG Empower Your Tomorrow 
Indigenous Commitment, which dedicates $5 million over 
the next five years to support programs and initiatives to 
further the financial confidence of Indigenous 
communities in Canada. This commitment brings our 
various activities together into a national strategy. 
The centrepiece of the campaign is a new partnership 
with Prosper Canada to build the financial confidence of 
Indigenous people in isolated, rural communities. IG and 
Prosper Canada will leverage the capacity and expertise  
of leading regional financial empowerment organizations – 
SEED Winnipeg and Community Financial Counselling 
Services in Manitoba, and Sudbury Community Service 
Centre in Ontario – as well as our national Indigenous 
partner, AFOA Canada . The new program will begin with pilot projects in two Manitoba and two Ontario First 
Nation communities to be identified in 2021.
Newcomers  – Learning the financial systems of a new 
country can be daunting, which is why we work with the 
Immigrant and Refugee Community Organization of 
Manitoba (IRCOM) to provide financial education in 
newcomers’ first language. We also have a longstanding 
partnership with United Way and support local chapters 
across the country so they can offer financial literacy 
programs to newcomers. 
Seniors  – The seniors, parents and grandparents of  
our communities often face unique financial challenges 
that come with age. We offer support through financial 
planning workshops designed to guide seniors through 
financial considerations in collaboration with our national 
partners, including the Alzheimer Society of Canada. 
The IG Walk for Alzheimer’s is an annual event to raise 
awareness and funds to support people and families living 
with Alzheimer’s disease and other dementias. In 2020, 
the walk went virtual for the first time and still managed  
to raise $5.1 million. Learn more about our community 
support on page 58 .Youth  – Education is the most important tool we can give 
our youth. With the help of the CFEE, we’ve distributed 
Money and Youth textbooks to students across the  
nation and hosted thousands of students at workshops. 
Recognizing basic literacy as a precursor to financial 
literacy, we also support Dyslexia Canada’s Mark it Read 
national campaign, which raises awareness and support 
for the 10% to 20% of Canadian children living 
with dyslexia. “We’re delighted to be working with IG and non-profit and
Indigenous partners to help build financial wellness in First 
Nation communities. This program will support participating 
communities to undertake practical, relevant approaches to 
build the financial confidence of individuals, families and the 
community overall.”
Elizabeth Mulholland , Chief Executive Officer, Prosper Canada
Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting37
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportFinancial planning for women
Women, on average, are living longer, typically shoulder responsibilities 
that include caring for children and parents, and may be part of significant 
intergenerational wealth transfers impacting Canadian families. 
Increasingly, they are likely to become the sole financial decision maker.
Yet IG research has shown that 60% of women aged 45 to 54 have no 
financial plan. Through our financial seminars for women, we’re trying  
to change that. With a lens on reinforcing confidence, outcomes and the 
value of holistic financial advice, our seminars cover five key topics that 
matter to women: wealth creation, retirement optimization, estate 
planning, business success and charitable giving. More than 50 seminars 
were held in 2020. 
 RISING FINANCIAL CONFIDENCE
The IG Financial Confidence Index, which is part of the IG Empower Your 
Tomorrow program, tracks and reports on Canadians’ overall financial 
confidence. The fall 2020 edition confirmed that Canadians coast to coast 
were persevering despite the challenges and impacts of COVID-19. Even with 
an overall rise in financial confidence since 2019, certain groups such as youth 
and Indigenous communities still sat below the national average when it comes 
to their personal finances, which is why we continue to support these groups. 
Here are some of the key findings:
+4 
The average financial 
confidence of  
Canadians rose four 
points from 2019+10 
Canadian seniors  
scored 10 points above 
the national average
+13
Canadians with a 
financial advisor scored 
13 points above the 
national average-9 
Indigenous communities 
scored nine points lower 
than the national average
-17  
Young Canadians’ score declined 17 points from spring 
to fall when asked how they felt about making good 
financial decisions
Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting38
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability Report
Sustainable investing
Shifting societal values, highlighted during the COVID- 19 pandemic, have accelerated 
sustainable investing. Whether it’s because of climate change, racial injustice or other 
environmental or social issues, people around the world increasingly understand that 
they can drive positive change in their investment portfolios and the world, with returns 
that meet or exceed those of traditional investments. 
At IGM, we have a longstanding practice of being 
sustainable investors to better manage risk and generate 
long-term sustainable returns for our clients. All of our 
operating companies have formalized their commitments 
through sustainable investment policies, which outline the 
approach taken to integrate ESG criteria in investment 
analysis and decision-making processes, and to enable 
active ownership through engagement and proxy voting. 
This approach is aligned with the long-term interests of 
our clients, with the financial markets and economies in 
which we operate, and ultimately with broader social and 
environmental goals. IG and Mackenzie are signatories to 
the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), which 
offers a framework for integrating ESG factors into the 
investment analysis and decision-making process for 
mainstream investment managers.There are, however, differences between our operating 
companies because of their distinct business models.  
IG and IPC offer investment funds to their retail clients, 
which are primarily managed by high-quality external 
sub-advisors (asset managers). As a result, their primary 
role is to monitor and evaluate the sustainable practices 
of these sub-advisors. 
Mackenzie is an investment manager providing 
investment solutions to retail, institutional and strategic 
accounts through a boutique structure that includes 
internal investment teams along with external sub-
advisors in select areas. As such, it plays a more direct 
role in sustainable investing. 
Nevertheless, each operating company has built 
sustainable investing strategies that are unique to its 
business, while aligning with our overall IGM values. More 
information about each company’s approach is provided 
on the following pages. WHO HAS RESPONSIBILITY: 
Oversight of sustainable investment policies 
and processes is the responsibility of the 
Senior Vice-President, IG Investments, at  
IG; the Chief Investment Officer at IPC; and 
the two Co-Chief Investment Officers and 
Head of Sustainable Investing at Mackenzie. 
IG and Mackenzie both have Sustainable 
Investing Committees that include broad 
representation to advance implementation 
of sustainable investing  practices. INFLUENCE AND IMPACT THROUGH  
CLIMATE ACTION 100+
Climate Action 100+ is an investor-led 
initiative engaging companies on improving 
climate change governance, cutting 
emissions and strengthening climate-related 
financial disclosures. Mackenzie signed up  
in 2020 and IG will be joining in 2021.
Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting39
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportAt IG, holistic financial plans prepared for clients are supported by well-diversified 
portfolios guided by five core sustainable investing principles:
• Active PRI signatory  – IG and its sub-advisors are PRI signatories
• Avoid cluster munitions  – Sub-advisors must not knowingly invest in companies 
involved in the production, use or distribution of anti-personnel land mines or 
cluster munitions
• ESG integration  – We require our sub-advisors to assess material ESG factors  
in investment analysis and decision making, in order to better understand risks 
and identify opportunities that maximize investment performance
• Active ownership  – We expect our sub-advisors to be active owners through 
proxy voting and engagement, as a way of influencing and improving corporate 
ESG behaviour
• Collaboration efforts – We and our sub-advisors collaborate with like-minded 
organizations to promote and advance the sustainable investing landscape
In 2020, we published our first Sustainable and Responsible Investing Report , 
which describes our approach in detail and includes case studies. In addition to 
training webinars and online modules for IG advisors, we organized our first-ever 
webinar for clients, which attracted 275 people interested in hearing from experts 
from IGM, IG and one of our sub-advisors. The presenters unpacked common 
myths related to sustainable investing and discussed how strategies that integrate 
ESG factors can help clients invest according to their values and priorities, without 
sacrificing financial returns. The session ended with a live question and 
answer  period.KEEPING SUB -ADVISORS ACCOUNTABLE 
IG sub-advisors are selected through a rigorous due diligence process that 
includes evaluation of their ESG practices. Our ongoing oversight process 
includes an annual comprehensive sustainable investing assessment and a 
thorough ESG competencies review that expects the following from  
our sub-advisors:
Formalized sustainable 
investing policies, 
with an expert, 
multi-disciplined 
teamInnovative ESG 
processes, 
analytical and 
reporting tools
Active ownership 
that drives change 
in corporate ESG 
behaviourIndustry thought 
leadership 
and sustainable 
investing advocacyKeeping 
sub-advisors 
accountable 
Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting40
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportAt IPC, we recognize the growing importance of integrating 
ESG factors into investment processes to deliver 
sustainable long-term returns. This is particularly true  
for macro themes like climate change, which will have 
potentially significant impacts on all assets in the future. 
As such, sustainable investing for us is primarily about 
managing risk, rather than imposing one social theme  
or belief on investors. 
Our approach to sustainable investing focuses on three 
pillars, which work together to enhance the sustainable 
characteristics of our sub-advised investment mandates 
and maintain and improve long-term outcomes for the 
benefit of our clients:
• Active ownership through proxy voting and corporate 
engagement
• Exclusion of companies that contravene ESG standards 
or whose operations involve anti-social business 
activities (e.g., controversial weapons, thermal coal 
mining and tobacco)
• ESG integration practices of sub-advisors – We evaluate 
ESG integration practices in selecting new sub-advisors 
and in the regular due diligence process for existing 
sub-advisors
We use the services of ISS, a leading provider of corporate 
governance and sustainable investment solutions, for 
proxy voting and engagement. ISS analysts make 
recommendations on proxy voting to promote ESG 
policies, which we and our sub-advisors follow in casting our votes. Through ISS, we also participate in a pooled 
engagement service, which targets companies that have 
identifiable ESG risks in their business or that are laggards 
in their industry on key ESG themes.
We also offer clients a dedicated ESG portfolio that invests 
in underlying ETFs that are optimized to have a higher ESG 
score relative to the underlying index. The objective of the 
IPC Essentials ESG Balanced Portfolio is to provide long-
term capital appreciation by investing primarily in equity 
and fixed-income ETFs, while aiming to reduce volatility. 
With the number of sustainable investing–focused assets 
in the marketplace growing by more than 50% year-over-
year in Canada and 35% globally, Mackenzie has 
prioritized sustainable investing as a strategic growth 
catalyst. Our vision is to be a sustainable investor for our 
clients by demonstrating leadership in transparent ESG 
practices, genuine conviction and impact-driven solutions.Our approach is guided by our five sustainable investing 
principles:
• We prioritize creating value for our clients by achieving 
long-term risk-adjusted returns across a diversified 
investment shelf
• We mandate our investment boutiques to integrate 
factors material to risk and return, including ESG factors. 
We believe that material ESG factors present financial 
risks and opportunities.
• As long-term investors and stewards of capital, we 
believe in company engagement and proxy voting to 
promote good governance and management of material 
ESG issues
• We believe that good governance is a signal of quality 
management and that well-managed companies 
produce long-term, sustainable returns
• We offer sustainable, thematic and impact solutions 
that generate returns alongside impact for clients who 
want to align their values to their investments
Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting41
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportMackenzie took strong action to bolster our commitment 
to sustainable practices in 2020, including:
• Establishing a Sustainable Investing Centre of Excellence 
(COE) led by the Head of Sustainable Investing who 
reports directly to the CEO. This centre provides 
centralized ESG research and expertise to investment 
teams; oversees and manages our sustainable 
products; and spearheads ESG advocacy efforts, 
including thought leadership initiatives and engagement 
with regulators. One of the COE’s first steps in 2020 was 
to provide training to Mackenzie’s executive team to 
advance their knowledge of the space, and subsequent 
training to the investment boutiques to help them 
advance their ESG practices.
• Enhancing our in-house expertise by acquiring 
Greenchip Financial Corporation, a Canadian firm 
focused exclusively on the environmental economy. 
With Canadians historically having limited options 
available for investing in environmental sectors, Greenchip’s investment strategy and expertise in 
energy transition and on climate change will help 
Mackenzie meet growing demands of both retail and 
institutional investors. This acquisition was a natural 
evolution reflecting the success of Greenchip’s  
sub-advisory relationship to the Mackenzie Global 
Environmental Equity Fund. 
• Becoming a founding signatory of the Canadian 
Investor Statement on Diversity & Inclusio n, 
alongside IG and other institutional investors 
representing a total of more than $2.3 trillion in assets. 
The statement acknowledges the existence of systemic 
racism and its impacts on Black and Indigenous 
communities and People of Colour in Canada and 
globally, and commits signatories to take intentional 
steps, as outlined in the statement, to promote  
diversity and inclusion across their portfolios and  
within their  organizations. 
Our priority advocacy themes align with our investment practices, industry coalitions and disclosures:
Diversity
Broaden our focus and  
advocate for disclosure,  
strategy, targets and 
measurementClimate action
Advocate for reporting, 
measurement and disclosure  
of climate risk, and promote  
the energy transitionGood governance
Promote stakeholder  
capitalism, consistent oversight 
and long-term orientation2020 ENGAGEMENT BY THEME
In its role as a steward of capital, Mackenzie 
can provide further support to building a 
sustainable future. To maximize stewardship 
efforts, engagement is undertaken by both 
internal investment teams and by EOS at 
Federated Hermes (EOS), a third-party 
engagement specialist. Under this 
arrangement, Mackenzie’s voice is combined 
with those of like-minded shareholders to 
exert greater influence over ESG issues. We 
generally adopt a policy of engagement over 
divesting a holding. 
In 2020, EOS engaged with 979 companies held 
in Mackenzie accounts on 3,405 environmental, 
social, governance, strategy, risk and 
communication issues. 
Environmental24.5%
Social and ethical Governance17.5% 40%Strategy, risk and 
communication18%
Climate action
Advocate for reporting, measurement 
and disclosure of climate risk, and 
promote the energy transition
Climate action
Advocate for reporting, measurement 
and disclosure of climate risk, and 
promote the energy transitionGood  governance
Promote stakeholder 
capitalism, consistent oversight and long-term 
orientationIndex 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting42
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportSustainable investing strategies  and solutions
Sustainable investing is our terminology for investment approaches that consider ESG factors to manage risk, 
maximize long-term risk-adjusted returns and/or seek to generate a positive impact on one or more ESG issues.
IGM controversial weapon 
exclusions
IPC security-specific exclusionsMackenzie Global Women’s 
Leadership Fund
Mackenzie Global Women’s 
Leadership ETFMackenzie Global Environmental 
Equity Fund
Mackenzie Greenchip Global 
Balanced FundIG M ackenzie Summa SRI Fund
Mackenzie Global Sustainability 
and Impact Balanced Fund
Mackenzie Global Sustainable 
Bond Fund
Wealthsimple Socially 
Responsible ETFs
IPC Essentials ESG Balanced 
Portfolio
IPC Private Wealth 
Fundamentals ESG PortfoliosPractices th at integrate ESG factors 
into the investment process to 
mitigate risk
Mitigate ESG risk Maximize ESG positive impactPrioritizes companies with positive 
ESG practices expected to enhance 
overall valueTargets specific ESG macro trends 
that are generating competitive 
returnsTargets ESG outcomes while 
generating financial returnResponsible
investingBest-in-class
ESG investingThematic
investingImpact
investing
IG and Mackenzie are signatories of:Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting43
43
Empowering  
our people
We are driven to create a workplace 
experience that meets the evolving 
needs and expectations of our people 
and empowers them to flourish, grow 
and contribute, because only then 
will we achieve our full potential as  
a company and as individuals.
PRIORITY TOPICS
Talent and culture 
Diversity, equity and inclusionIndex 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability Report
44
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability Report
2020 highlights
While helping our employees stay well and stay connected was a top priority in 2020, we also advanced programs for 
enhancing the workplace experience over the long-term.
No COVID-19  
related job loss
Committed to no 
COVID-19 related job  
loss across IGM in 20203 extra paid  
days off 
In appreciation of our  
employees’ efforts during  
this difficult yearSummer  
interns
Hired close to 40 summer  
interns, even as many  
organizations had to  
rescind their offersHR Services
Launched centralized HR Services, 
responding to over 14,000 tickets in 
2020, providing timely and support 
to leaders and employees on a 
range of HR topics
Future workplace 
planning
Launched workplace of  
the future strategy planning 
aimed at creating best-in-class 
contemporary workspaces, with 
refreshed design, contemporary 
materials and upgraded 
technologies10 training  
webinars
Conducted an average of  
10 training webinars a  
week for IG advisorsFully virtual 
workplace 
Redeployed resources to digital 
processes and virtual meeting 
technologies to accommodate a 
fully virtual workplace strategy for 
our employees and field network to 
reduce COVID-19 transmission risks End anti-Black 
systemic racism 
We made a public pledge to end 
anti-Black systemic racism 
Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting45
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportTalent and culture
Our people are our greatest ambassadors. When they are engaged and committed to spending their careers with us, the value to  
our business, our reputation and our communities is immense.
At IGM, we see ourselves as a family with strong 
connections between operating companies and with one 
another. We are large, but not huge, which enables us to 
nurture a welcoming and inclusive culture, to get things 
done quickly and collaboratively, and to provide people 
with fulfilling career opportunities. 
As our business needs and employee expectations 
change, we’re also evolving our people programs, putting 
the focus squarely on the employee experience. This 
means ensuring that each and every person feels safe  
and respected, and that we are delivering what’s most 
important to our employees – being able to contribute to 
the best of their abilities, helping shape the future of our 
company and making a positive difference in their 
communities.As part of our five-year strategic initiatives, we have set 
priorities with measurable goals that focus on the following:
• Strategic workforce planning  – Anticipating and driving 
change that aligns talent decisions with future 
business  opportunities
• Optimal organization design  – Better reflecting how 
work is done today and in the future, and ensuring that 
our structure and roles align with the business and 
workforce strategy
• Talent culture  – Building greater capabilities and future-
proofing the business through evolving leadership, 
development and succession management 
• Differentiated people value proposition  – Enabling 
employee and business success through clarity and  
 focus on what makes our company special
• Holistic approach to wellness and rewards  – 
Increasing resilience and engagement through holistic 
wellness and flexible and competitive total rewards 
packages
• Talent management systems  – Equipping our leaders 
to make informed decisions through data-based insights 
driven by integrated systems and programs
• Communication s – Providing a communication 
experience that is connected, accessible and invites 
people to provide their feedback Among the changes made in 2020, we redesigned our 
performance management and compensation programs, 
replaced the annual employee engagement survey with 
more frequent pulse surveys, enhanced our health and 
wellness programs and started modernizing our 
workplaces. Information about these and other people 
programs is provided on the following pages.
Pulse surveys
In 2020 we redesigned our  
performance management and 
compensation programs and replaced 
the annual employee engagement  
survey with more frequent pulse  
surveys.WHO HAS RESPONSIBILITY: 
The Board’s Human Resources Committee 
reviews and approves compensation policies 
and guidelines and oversees risks relating to 
our key human resources policies. The senior 
executive-level IGM Operating Committee 
provides oversight on priorities, tracks 
performance and ensures that appropriate 
resources are allocated to deliver on human 
resource strategies. The Executive Vice-
President and Chief Human Resources 
Officer oversees our integrated human 
resources policies and programs. 
RELATED PUBLICATIONS 
Code of Conduct
Workplace Harassment and Discrimination 
Prevention  PolicyIndex 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting46
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability Report
Health and wellness
The aim of our four-pillar approach to 
employee health and wellness is for 
everyone to be physically thriving, 
emotionally balanced, financially secure  
and socially connected. In 2020, this became 
more important than ever, given the change 
and uncertainty brought on by the 
pandemic. To better meet employees’ 
needs, we enhanced our wellness program 
in consultation with a leading global 
advisory firm focused on optimizing 
benefits and cultivating talent. The resulting 
program is based on industry best practices 
and feedback from our own employees.
We moved quickly in March to a work-from-
home model for virtually all employees and 
IG and IPC financial advisors, in some cases 
investing in IT hardware and allowing people 
to take their desktop computers home. 
Employees were also allowed to take home 
chairs, monitors and other equipment to 
ensure they had a proper work 
environment. Special allowances were given 
to non-executive employees to cover work-
from-home costs such as additional phone/
Internet charges, and to the few essential 
workers who were still travelling to the 
office.ENHANCEMENTS TO OUR WELLNESS PROGRAMS
One of our most significant commitments, aimed at allaying employee concerns, was that there would be no 
COVID-19 related job loss across IGM in 2020. Other enhancements to our wellness program included the 
following:
Group insurance  – Extended coverage for 
psychologists and social workers; moved to digital 
drug cards; increased long-term disability maximums
Pension and retirement savings  – Increased 
communications during market fluctuations; 
implemented a 401K plan for US employees
Extra time off – Employees were given three extra 
paid days off during the year; implemented summer 
hours, ending the work day at 3:00 pm every Friday
Employee and family assistance plan  – Added the 
AbilitiCBT program, which provides free cognitive 
behaviour therapy guided by a therapist through a 
digital platform; held leader and employee webinars
Communications  – Increased communication 
frequency with regular wellness tips and articles; 
created a centralized wellness hub on our intranetOther – Offered virtual ergonomic training program 
for employees to set up work at home; added e-health 
for IG advisors and assistants; removed process 
barriers to programs (e.g., minimum hours for 
benefits); offered virtual fitness days
In late 2020, we conducted a wellness survey to 
identify areas where employees were feeling 
challenged – which included managing their workload 
and experiencing stress and anxiety – and to develop 
new programs and approaches to support their 
wellness over the upcoming months. One of the 
outcomes was the formation of the SNOW (Senior 
Network on Wellness) Patrol, composed of senior 
leaders who are charged with taking the lead on 
winter wellness communications and programs.Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting47
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportSupporting employee wellness through benefits and programs  
· Mental and physical/dental 
health beneﬁts
· Telehealth
· Medisys/Medcan
· Best Doctors
· Ergonomics from home 
training
· Virtual ﬁtness classes
· Employee and Family 
Assistance Program
· Anti-stigma (Not Myself Today)
· Resilience webinars
· Virtual well-being support sessions
· AbilitiCBT
· Best Doctors (Mental Health Navigator)
· Mental health training· Competitive compensation 
including incentive plans 
· Life insurance
· Disability insurance (STD/LTD)
· Critical illness
· DB and DC pension plans, 
group RRSP
· Share purchase plan
· Maternity/paternity leave top-up
· EcoPass transit pass
· Group home and auto insurance
· Credit counselling
· Leading vacation day policy
· Time oﬀ (10 wellness days, 
two volunteer days per year)
· Supportive work environment/
community
· Partners in Action teams
· Sustainability initiatives
· Wellness Committee events 
and programsPHYSICAL EMOTIONALFINANCIAL SOCIALSECURE
CONNECTEDBALANCEDTHRIVING
WELL-BEING
Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting48
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportEmployee engagement 
While we have typically conducted an annual employee engagement 
survey, we found that this once-a-year exercise simply wasn’t enough to 
keep us abreast of evolving employee sentiment in 2020. As a result, we 
shifted to short pulse surveys, conducted every eight to 12 weeks, which 
focused on topics most relevant to employees during the pandemic.
The surveys helped us gauge employee sentiment and leadership 
effectiveness, and identify additional support required – towards a goal  
 of maintaining positive employee engagement and minimal disruption  
to business delivery. 
Topics covered how we responded to the pandemic in terms of 
communications, leadership and support, and employee engagement 
aspects such as people leadership, diversity and inclusion, wellness and 
return-to-office planning. Across all surveys, common sentiment  
questions were used to find out how employees were feeling and why.
The feedback guided our choice of communication channels and the 
frequency of updates – with email bulletins, virtual local leadership 
meetings and weekly e-newsletters identified as employees’ preferred 
channels. It also prompted us to conduct training on best practices for 
working and leading remotely, to encourage our people leaders to  
arrange frequent check-ins with their employees, and to promote  
wellness resources. 
The employer Net Promoter Score (eNPS) was our engagement indicator  
in 2020. External research indicated that our score of 31 was very good 
compared to other companies. In response to leader feedback and 
requirements, we will continue with pulse surveys in 2021 and introduce  
an expanded pulse survey for engagement. This will give us an overall 
engagement percentage, which will be based on multiple questions  
in an engagement index, including an employer NPS net promoter  
score question. KEY SCORES FROM OUR AUGUST 2020  
PULSE SURVEY WITH IG AND MACKENZIE
92% 
of employees indicated 
that “my team works 
effectively together to 
deliver on commitments”82% 
agreed/strongly agreed 
that “I have the things 
(resources, information 
and tools) I need to do  
my job well”
81%  
felt very positive about 
their leader “caring  
about me as a person”78% 
think we respect 
individuals and their 
differences
77%  
felt our companies do very well/extremely well  
in our commitment to diversity in the workplace
IPC continued with the annual Gallup employee engagement survey and 
achieved some of its best results ever, including a 99% participation rate. Its 
overall engagement score improved to 4.37 , from 4.21 in 2019, which placed 
IPC in the 94th percentile in Gallup’s finance and insurance industry database. Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting49
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportTalent acquisition
In a competitive market for talent, we’ve developed  
a plan to deepen our talent pool by establishing a 
centralized talent attraction process, growing and 
diversifying our pipelines and networks, and  
leveraging social media, data and internal talent to 
target candidates. We’ve also improved the recruiting 
experience for candidates through the introduction  
of standardized processes and consistent interview 
techniques to minimize bias. 
With close to 500 employees joining our company in 
2020, we refreshed our new hire onboarding program 
so that it could be delivered virtually and to highlight our 
emphasis on sustainability and community engagement. 
Despite most of these people being hired in a work-
from-home environment, we were still able to nurture a 
sense of connection to our company, and the program 
was very well received.
We honoured our commitment to hire close to 40 
summer interns, even as many organizations had to 
rescind their offers. We also continued hiring for new 
graduate rotation programs that provide recent 
university graduates with opportunities to develop their 
leadership skills, build their business acumen and learn 
how each department contributes to the success of the 
organization. In an especially difficult year for young 
Canadians and recent university graduates, we felt it  
was important to not only continue to develop our  
 talent pipeline, but also to give young people 
meaningful work experience. 
With close to 500 employees joining our company 
in 2020, we refreshed our new hire onboarding 
program so that it could be delivered virtually and 
to highlight our emphasis on sustainability and 
community engagement. Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting50
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportPerformance, learning and development
We redesigned our performance management program in 
2020 to enhance our approach to developing people and 
fostering high levels of performance. Launched in January 
2021, the program focuses on setting clear expectations 
on performance objectives and competencies, providing 
ongoing coaching and feedback, and implementing 
personal development plans for all employees. Employees’ 
annual objectives are aligned with company strategy, and 
leaders are required to hold quarterly meetings to 
review  progress. 
Having added a people-centric objective to leaders’ 
annual performance plans in 2019, we have continued  
this practice and evolved it each year to reflect key 
priorities in leading and developing team members.  
The 2021 objectives will focus on three aspects of  
people leadership:
• Creating and executing plans that will aid in advancing 
diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) within each team
• Creating and executing professional development plans
• Providing performance feedback and communicating 
key messages from senior leadership 
One of the key changes in the improved program is  
the introduction of IGM Behavioural Competencies.  
The competency framework will give employees clearer 
definitions of what’s expected of them at each career  level and will be helpful for creating their professional 
development plans. To simplify our programs, we’re  
also introducing easy-to-use digital objective-setting, 
performance-management and compensation tools.
Learning opportunities at our company include formal 
training, feedback and coaching, and on-the-job 
experience both for our own employees and for the 
financial advisors we work with. We encourage external 
training and offer reimbursement programs to help cover 
costs. We also offer assistance to employees with career 
transitions. This includes supporting those retiring or 
involuntarily leaving our company with pre-retirement 
planning, job placement support and severance, as 
applicable.
Our leadership development approach includes a 
consistent succession planning framework to identify and 
develop employees who have leadership potential, and to 
identify succession candidates for critical senior roles. 
Annual talent and succession reviews assess leadership 
potential and assist us in creating strategies to develop 
talent and take other steps, as required. Training and 
resources are geared to the specific needs of leaders  
and targeted high-potential individuals. ATTRACTING NEW ADVISORS 
IG’s dedicated team of talent specialists 
focus on attracting highly qualified 
professionals to the financial advisor 
opportunity. We have a highly selective 
recruiting process with only 3% of 
applicants ultimately being appointed.  
In 2020, we welcomed 100+ financial 
advisors from competing firms.
Discover a career as an IG Advisor Ig.ca/JoinIGIndex 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting51
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportHere are examples of our high-impact development programs:
LEADing at IGM (LEAD)  is our hallmark program for  
high-potential leaders, which features experience-based 
development through work on real projects. It was 
designed to develop our top talent into top leaders  
with a high capacity for productivity, collaboration  
and innovation. The program was redesigned in 2020,  
and the new LEAD will be launched in 2021.
IG University  is IG’s enhanced learning institute for 
advisors. Programming is anchored to the core pillars of 
financial planning, practice management, professional 
responsibility, and products and leadership development. 
Programming is also segmented from fundamental to 
expert levels. Programs, training and resources include 
more than 2,400 hours of continuing education–
accredited content. Many programs are delivered in 
partnership with leading business schools. In 2020, 
IG University delivered an average of 10 webinars a week 
to advisors on topics ranging from using new digital tools, 
to meeting compliance requirements while transacting or 
working with clients remotely, to sustainable investment. 
We also rolled out new financial planning software and 
launched a best-in-class proprietary practice 
management program.Mackenzie  has a dedicated practice management team 
that works with advisors to support them in managing 
and growing their business. The team offers workshops, 
keynotes, tools and resources on topics such as 
leadership, marketing, branding, technology, process  
and self-management. In 2020, the practice management 
team delivered more than 100 presentations nationally. 
IPC expanded social learning through the launch of  
the IPC Learning Network (IPCLN) and its Leader 
Effectiveness Program. IPCLN provides opportunities  
for individuals to connect nationally, no matter what  
their role, so they can benefit from knowledge across  
our company. The Leader Effectiveness Program was 
developed to ensure leaders are set up for success  
with best practices and tools for promoting authentic 
collaboration among teams.
One benefit of the shift to 
virtual training was that 
participation in instructor-led 
programs rose by 77%, as 
geography was no longer an 
impediment to learning.LEAD  Program
Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting52
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability Report
Workplace strategy
Return-to-office planning was a major 
focus in the second half of 2020, as 
we wanted to ensure the health and 
safety of our people. Out of an 
abundance of caution, we opted not 
to be early adopters of a return-to-
office plan; instead, we decided to 
wait 30 to 90 days after government 
restrictions were lifted before 
allowing people back. In reality, the 
vast majority of our people continued 
to work from home even when 
COVID-19 restrictions were 
intermittently lifted.
Many employees also told us in our 
surveys that they would prefer to 
work at home at least partially  
 going forward – and we want to 
accommodate this. We expect that  
a hybrid working model will be 
implemented at our company, with 
employees splitting time between  
the office and their homes. We are 
designing our workplace of the future 
through this lens.
Our workplace of the future strategy 
marks a profound commitment to our 
people, culture and future. It is aimed 
at creating best-in-class 
contemporary workspaces across the enterprise and was developed in 
consultation with our employees. 
We’re starting with one of our 
Toronto office buildings and will 
eventually modernize all of our 
corporate  campuses.
Among the attributes of our new 
offices, there will be more “we space” 
and less “me space”; everyone will 
have access to light – with 
boardrooms, training rooms and 
townhall spaces located on the 
perimeter, and meeting rooms and private offices on the interior; cafés 
and individual reflection rooms will be 
included on every work floor; and 
there will be a mix of assigned and 
unassigned work seats for when 
people come into the office to work.
Ultimately, we want to create a 
workplace that balances near-term 
COVID-19 health and safety concerns 
with longer-term productivity, 
accessibility and well-being 
considerations.Our workplace of the future 
strategy marks a profound 
commitment to our people, 
culture and future. It is aimed 
at creating best-in-class 
contemporary workspaces 
across the enterprise and  
was developed in consultation 
with our employees. Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting53
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability Report
Diversity, equity and inclusion 
At IGM, we believe strongly that diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) are key to attracting 
and engaging top talent, creating an exceptional employee experience and developing 
new business opportunities. Following the troubling incidents of racial injustice 
highlighted in 2020, we’re very much aware of the persistence of racism in our society 
and want to bring positive, lasting change to our country and our company.
We aim to be known as a leading, contemporary 
organization driven by equitable and inclusive practices 
that enable everyone to feel included, respected and 
valued. We also want our employees and distribution 
teams to be representative and inclusive of the widely 
diverse Canadian population we serve.
Beginning in 2018, we committed to a company-wide 
strategy focused on advancing women in the workplace, 
supporting truth and reconciliation with Indigenous 
people, and building awareness of the challenges faced  
 by the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer or 
Questioning and Two-Spirit (LGBTQ2S+) community. 
Our three pillars of action are: raising awareness, defining 
and consistently demonstrating inclusive behaviours,  
and increasing external partnerships and community 
engagement. Our approach to each pillar is to “listen,  
 learn and act.” While we’ve made inroads, we know we 
need to do more and, in 2020, we expanded the scope 
and focus of our work.
All IGM operating companies made a public pledge to end 
anti-Black systemic racism by signing on to the BlackNorth 
Initiative. This pledge not only reinforces our shared commitment to end anti-Black systemic racism, it also 
compels us to take action within our organizations, 
including committing at least 3% of our corporate 
donations and sponsorships to promote investment  
and create economic opportunities in the Black 
community by  2025.
In line with our BlackNorth pledge, we formed a Black 
Advisory Council, which includes 54 members from  
across our companies and regions, to share their 
perspectives and experiences and provide input on 
initiatives for attracting, retaining and advancing Black 
colleagues. Representatives from our Black Advisory 
Council and existing Partners in Action (PIA) teams 
participated in the first of two planning workshops aimed 
at helping these employee-led groups build sustainable 
structures, processes and momentum to execute 
meaningful programs.
Separately, we encouraged our employees to participate 
in voluntary and confidential self-disclosure. Having this 
data will help us create meaningful DE&I programs going 
forward and measure our representation progress. From a training perspective, we focused on unconscious 
bias, which is known to be one of the most pervasive 
barriers to inclusion in the workplace. All leaders and 
employees were invited to participate in unconscious bias 
training, and IG University added an unconscious bias 
training program for IG advisors.
We also enhanced our parental leave policy. Taking effect 
in January 2021, the new policy provides a maternity leave 
top-up (subsidizing a portion of the difference between a 
person’s base salary and employment insurance 
payments) to eligible birth mothers as well as eligible 
fathers and adoptive and same-sex parents.Members of the IG Women’s in Action PIA Team celebrate 
International Women’s Day with Camille Dundas and 
Jeff Carney, former IGM President & CEOIndex 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting54
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportA defined structure to enable our DE&I focus
Executive Council
Senior executives from across IGM provide leadership and sponsorship support for internal DE&I focus on external 
partnerships. The council includes our CEOs, Chief HR Officer, Chief Marketing Officer, General Council and other key 
members.
Operating Council 
Cross-functional team of senior leaders whose functions have accountability for executing DE&I plans. This council is 
responsible for championing DE&I initiatives, supporting the IGM DE&I strategy, and providing input and direction to 
the IGM Human Resources DE&I Centre of Expertise (COE).
HR Centre of Expertise (COE)
Designs, develops and maintains our DE&I strategy while ensuring coordinated deployment; measures DE&I 
activities against strategic pillars and action plans; and enables alignment across our company.
Partners in Action (PIA) teams 
Collaborate to build and sustain DE&I 
awareness and leadership behaviours 
and provide subject matter expertise as 
representatives of particular communities.Cross-functional 
working groups 
Collaborate on  ad hoc 
initiatives as directed by the 
Operating Council.Advisory groups and internal 
stakeholders 
Validate DE&I best practices, support 
DE&I initiatives, and encourage listening, 
learning and participation as required.External 
Partners
Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting55
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportMILESTONES ON OUR DE&I JOURNEY (2018 –2020 )
Formed LGBTQ2S+, 
Women and Indigenous 
Partners in Action teams 
and the Black Advisory 
CouncilObserved Pride Month, International 
Women’s Day, International Men’s 
Day, Multicultural Day, Black History 
Month, International Day of Persons 
with Disabilities, Mental Health WeekHeld National Indigenous People’s 
Day and Orange Shirt Day events, 
bringing together employees, 
advisors, clients and guests. In 2020, 
there were over 1,700 participants at 
these events.92% 
of employees indicated 
that “my team works 
eﬀectively together to 
deliver on commitments”Raising awareness
Increasing external partnerships and community engagementDelivered 
unconscious bias 
training to more 
than 480 peopleDelivered Taking 
the Stage training 
to 679 womenHeld Kairos 
Blanket 
Exercise with 
343 peopleDelivered inclusive 
behaviours training to more 
than 300 people and 
committed to training entire 
workforce starting in 2021Training for greater diversity, equity and inclusion
Signed the 
UN’s Women 
Empowerment 
PrinciplesLeveraged partnerships with Gender and the 
Economy (GATE), Catalyst, Women in Capital 
Markets, Pride at Work Canada, Canadian 
Centre for Diversity and Inclusion and 
Canadian Association of Urban Financial 
Professionals (CAUFP)Signed Winnipeg’s 
Indigenous Accord as 
part of our commitment 
to the journey of truth 
and reconciliationSigned the 
BlackNorth 
Initiative 
Pledge
IGM SENIOR LEADERSHIP (AVP + POSITIONS )
Women 36%
Visible Minority 11%
Persons with a Disability 4%
LGBTQ2S+ 4%
Indigenous Persons 1%All the numbers are based on 228 
responses to a December 2019 voluntary 
disclosure survey for AVP+ employees 
across IGM, to obtain information on the 
representation of the designated groups 
amongst senior leadership within 
the corporation.WOMEN IN VP+ POSITIONS
2020 33%2020 GOAL 35%
WOMEN ON BOARD 
2020 33%2021 GOAL 30%
The Corporation began collecting 
confidential diversity data in late 2020 
and into 2021 across its entire workforce 
on a voluntary basis. As such, targets 
and timelines will be reviewed and 
re-established by calendar end 2021 
for all designated groups. 
RELATED PUBLICATIONS 
Code of Conduct
Workplace Harassment and Discrimination 
Prevention  PolicyIndex 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting56
Strengthening  
our communities
By taking an active role in caring 
for our communities and the planet, 
we help create a more resilient and 
prosperous world.
PRIORITY TOPICS
Community support
Environmental footprint 
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportIndex 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting57
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability Report2020 highlights
As a company of caring people, we recognized how important it was to look out for the most vulnerable in our communities in 
an especially difficult year.
$9.25 million 
$9.25 million contributed to 
community and charitable 
organizations across Canada$1 million 
Joined Canada Life and Power 
Corporation of Canada in making 
a $1 million joint contribution to 
provide crisis relief to local and 
national foodbanks and support  
to vulnerable people$5.1 million+ 
Over $5.1 million raised for  
Alzheimer Society of Canada 
through the IG Walk for  
Alzheimer’s in 2020Record year
Over $1.3 million in donations 
raised by employees through  
IGM Caring Company Campaign,  
a record year for total contributions
Climate disclosures 
Recognized by the CDP at the 
leadership level for our climate 
disclosures for the fourth 
consecutive year in 20202,625 trees planted 
2,625 trees planted through the 
virtual tree planting initiative 
organized through Mackenzie, 
in partnership with GrandTrees 
and  TreesCO2100% 
100% of office furniture  
replaced during office  
renovations was recycled or 
donated to non-profitsIG and Mackenzie 
contribute at least 
1% of their average 
annual pre-tax profit 
to charitable/non-
profit organizations
Climate action
Advocate for reporting, measurement 
and disclosure of climate risk, and 
promote the energy transition
Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting58
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportCommunity support
Across IGM and our operating companies, we have always put the well-being of our communities, clients and people at the forefront 
of what we do. It’s a tradition and a point of pride that’s as important to our employees, our advisors and our business as it is to the 
communities we serve. Through our efforts, we help build the foundation for a healthier, more prosperous, more equitable and more 
resilient society, which benefits us all.
Both IG and Mackenzie are designated as Caring Companies 
by Imagine Canada, which works to strengthen Canadian 
charities and non-profits. Caring Companies commit to 
contributing at least 1% of their average annual pre-tax 
profit to charitable/non-profit organizations, and to 
enabling personal giving and volunteer activities of 
their  employees. 
Each of our operating companies has its own community 
giving program, with its own guidelines and combination 
of centralized giving (directed from our corporate head 
offices) and decentralized decisions (made by our people). 
Our people have the ability to direct donations and grants 
to causes that are most important to them: 
• At IG, advisors and employees support their respective 
communities through the employee-led Community 
Projects Fund, Matching Gift Program and Volunteer 
Support Program. As well, we allocate budgets and 
decision making directly to region offices across 
the country. • At Mackenzie , community initiatives – including 
donations and matching programs – are managed by 
employee volunteers and the Charitable Foundation 
• At IPC, community giving is conducted through an 
employee-driven Spirit Committee and self-directed 
initiatives run by advisors in their communities, all  
under the banner of IPC Cares
We encourage our people to volunteer in their 
communities and we recognize exceptional contributions 
through various community service award programs. 
Volunteer efforts at each company are facilitated through 
planned events, two paid volunteer days per year and 
ongoing support for Canada’s National Volunteer Week 
every April. 
Each of our operating companies has its own community 
giving program, with its own guidelines and combination of 
centralized giving (directed from our corporate head offices)  
and decentralized decisions (made by our people).WHO HAS RESPONSIBILITY: 
At each operating company, philanthropy 
and employee involvement strategies are 
approved by the respective President and 
CEO. The Vice-President of IGM Sponsorship 
and Community Engagement works with  
the management teams of our operating 
companies to review the community 
investment strategies annually. Strategic 
oversight of the Mackenzie Charitable 
Foundation is performed by an 
independent  board. Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting59
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportCARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES IN TURBULENT TIMES
With individuals, communities and businesses all challenged by the COVID-19 pandemic, 
not only was there a greater need for support, we also had to find new ways to deliver it. 
We’re proud of the way our whole organization came together to help. Here are just three 
examples: 
• IGM Financial joined Canada Life and 
Power Corporation of Canada in making 
a $1 million joint contribution to provide 
crisis relief to local and national 
foodbanks and support to vulnerable 
people, particularly seniors in isolation 
and women and youth in the shelter 
system
• We united our employee giving 
campaigns under one umbrella called 
the IGM Caring Company Campaign, a 
10-day event during which people were 
encouraged to donate to charities of 
their choice through regular payroll 
contributions or one-time payments. This inaugural event, which included  
a leadership breakfast, virtual charity 
lunch-and-learns and silent auctions, 
raised $1.18 million, a 10% increase over 
the total amount raised by the individual 
company campaigns in 2019.
• COVID-19 brought on many hardships 
for families with children or parents 
affected by cancer. To bring some 
happiness to these children’s lives, our 
employees and their families recorded 
themselves reading childhood stories in 
various languages. The videos were then 
distributed to our partner charities to 
host virtual story time events. In 2020, IG contributed $6.75 million to hundreds of community 
organizations through the IG Empower Your Tomorrow programs. 
We focus primarily on programs that are an extension of our vision  
to inspire the financial confidence of Canadians. As part of our flagship 
IG Empower Your Tomorrow program’s commitment to seniors (see 
page 36 ), we are the national title sponsor of the IG Walk for Alzheimer’s, 
the largest fundraising initiative for the Alzheimer Society of Canada. 
Our sponsorship is an opportunity for IG advisors, employees and clients 
to come together to raise funds and awareness to help families living with 
Alzheimer’s disease and other forms of dementia.
Unable to do in-person walks for most of 2020, the IG Walk for Alzheimer’s 
became an online event. Participants walked, skipped, ran, swam or found 
other creative ways to move, while raising funds for more than half a 
million Canadians with dementia. People also shared how they walked 
their own way with the #IGWalkforAlz hashtag. The event raised 
$5.1 million, with a record $360,000 raised by IG teams alone. 
Adding to the total, we also partnered with the Alzheimer Society of 
Canada to host virtual fundraising galas in Toronto and Montreal. Without 
the traditional space constraints, more people than ever were able to 
attend the galas, donating another $650,000.
$1 million+ 
1,486 IG advisors and employees helped us raise 
over $1 million through the IGM Caring Company 
Campaign, setting new records for the number of 
donors and the amount raised.
Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting60
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability Report
Under the IPC Cares banner, we support and promote 
community engagement and giving among employees 
and financial advisors to grassroots charities, both locally 
and abroad. Our international efforts include a multi-year 
relationship with communities in Honduras, where we 
help build basic infrastructure, raise funds and provide 
in-kind donations to local communities. 
Unable to make the annual volunteer trip to Honduras  
in 2020, a team of IPC advisors and head office staff 
organized a fundraiser to support local Honduran 
communities that were dealing with the aftermath of two 
hurricanes as well as the COVID-19 pandemic. The event 
exceeded expectations, raising $72,000 that went towards 
re-establishing production and irrigation systems, 
repairing clean water systems, and providing food relief 
and access to health services. 
Our IPC family also rallied around the Healing Cycle 
Foundation’s annual bike ride in support of Canadians  
 in palliative care across Ontario and the Movember 
campaign in support of men’s health – raising funds  
for causes that matter dearly to us all. In 2020, Mackenzie contributed $2.4 million to more than 
400 community and sport organizations across Canada. 
Through the employee-driven Mackenzie Charitable 
Foundation, money is raised each year to assist charities, 
with a focus on those that help vulnerable women and 
at-risk children and youth. The foundation is funded by 
donations from employees, which are matched dollar  
for dollar by our company. 
Each fall, our people come together to raise funds in 
creative ways for our 36 partner charities. The Mackenzie 
Caring Cup is a friendly competition in which departments 
earn points through their donations and volunteering in 
organized activities with the partner charities. 
In total, our employees volunteered more than 600 hours, 
virtually or in-person, in 2020. They built furniture for the 
City of Toronto’s Rapid Housing Project through our 
partnership with Furniture Bank, assembled coping kits 
for children whose parents are affected by cancer through the Nanny Angel Network, picked up non-perishable  
food donations for the North York Harvest Food Bank, 
and assembled and distributed food and sanitary kits  
 to people experiencing homelessness in Calgary. 
Through sponsorships, Mackenzie supports Canadian 
athletes fulfilling their dreams. We have a four-year 
sponsorship of Alpine Canada and Freestyle Canada, and 
continued to support grassroots alpine skiing through a 
partnership with Alpine Ontario. We also have a six-year 
partnership with the PGA Tour Canada as the tour’s first 
umbrella sponsor, which has donated more than 
$1 million to charities across Canada since 2016. 
donations
$308,000
71% of Mackenzie employees signed up  
for payroll contributions to the Mackenzie 
Foundation and, together with those who 
made one-time donations, contributed a 
record $308,000.Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting61
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportEnvironmental footprint
Recognizing the clear connection between a healthy 
business, healthy communities and a healthy planet, we 
challenge ourselves to reduce our environmental footprint 
in meaningful ways.
We focus on managing direct impacts from our operations in four main areas – 
energy use, employee commuting and business travel, waste management and 
paper use. These are the areas where we have the greatest environmental 
impact and where improvements will help reduce our greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions. 
Specific environmental commitments are formalized in our Environmental 
Policy . Expectations for our suppliers, set out in our Supplier Code of 
Conduct , include compliance with applicable environmental laws and 
conducting their activities in an environmentally responsible manner. 
Since 2016, we’ve engaged an energy and data management company to track 
and manage information across our owned and leased offices to provide more 
accurate and timely data and make recommendations for operational 
improvements. We have GHG emission reduction targets for Scope 1 and 2 
emissions and continue to look for ways to better measure and manage the 
impacts from Scope 3 emissions. 
Employee green committees are the drivers of many of our initiatives to reduce 
paper, waste and energy consumption. These groups of 10 to 15 volunteers 
each raise awareness and engagement around the importance of adopting 
environmentally responsible practices at work, at home and in the community. 
Third-party reviews of our environmental practices are an integral part of our 
approach. We conduct annual waste audits in our corporate offices to highlight 
improvement opportunities and increase engagement with employees. We also 
externally assure our annual GHG emissions statement for all Scope 1, 2 and 3 
travel emissions and applicable reduction targets. OUR EMISSION -RELATED TARGETS AND PROGRESS ARE MADE PUBLIC IN OUR  
ANNUAL CARBON DISCLOSURE PROJECT (CDP ) SUBMISSION 
40% reduction in 
absolute Scope 1 
and 2 GHG emissions by 
2020CO2e
40% reduction in absolute Scope 1  
and 2 GHG emissions by 2020
We exceeded our target to reduce 932 tonnes from our 2013 
emissions of 2,330 tonnes CO2e and will be setting a new 
target in 2021
50% reduction in absolute Scope 1  
and 2 GHG emissions by 2036
This target represents a reduction of 1,165 tonnes from our 
2013 emissions of 2,330 tonnes CO2e 
80% of Scope 1 natural gas to be  
renewable by 2020
We exceeded our target, which represents 4,879 megawatt 
hours of natural gas, and will be setting a new target in 2021 50% reduction in 
absolute Scope 1 
and 2 GHG emissions by 
2020
CO2e
WHO HAS RESPONSIBILITY: 
All staff play a role in managing the environmental impacts of our operations, 
but the most direct accountability lies with our Chief Operating Officer, who is 
responsible for our facility leases and operational management, purchasing, 
travel management and virtual meeting capabilities and is also the executive 
sponsor of the IGM Green Council. Responsible for creating a consistent culture 
of environmental awareness and practices across our operating companies, the 
Green Council consists of leaders from Facility Management, Human Resources, 
Corporate Sustainability, Information Services and Community Investments, and 
the chairs of the employee green committees.Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting62
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability Report#STEPUP4TREES  
CHALLENGE
In line with Mackenzie’s commitment to 
sustainability, its Green Committee 
partnered with GrandTrees Climate 
Solutions and TreesCO2 to create a virtual 
tree planting challenge as a way to increase 
the number of trees being planted in 2020. 
For every employee who took up the 
challenge of climbing, walking, running or 
wheeling 150 steps and sharing a video  
of their steps on social media using 
#stepup4trees, Mackenzie donated one 
tree toward the World Economic Forum’s 
Trillion Tree goal.Energy management 
Electricity and natural gas consumption at our owned  
and leased properties is the primary driver of energy  
use. We regularly invest in green building upgrades at  
 our corporate and regional offices, including installing  
efficient heating and cooling systems, air handling units, 
information technology systems, LED lighting and motion 
sensors. We also review the footprint of IG and Mackenzie 
head offices and IG’s regional offices to ensure we’re using 
space efficiently. 
IG has participated in the Manitoba Race to Reduce 
initiative, both in a leadership advisory role and by actively 
participating in the race to reduce energy use at the head 
office building it owns. Race to Reduce is a challenge 
which began in 2017, where commercial building landlords 
and tenants publicly commit to work together to reduce 
the total collective energy use in participating buildings  
by at least 10% over four years. The race ended in an 
unexpected way, with most buildings seeing huge 
reductions in 2020 as offices closed due to COVID-19. In 
our own office, energy usage declined by 28%, highlighting 
the need for greater energy awareness as such a large 
portion of our consumption is variable.
The remainder of our office space is leased by our 
operating companies. Our ability to directly manage 
energy consumption in shared leased premises is more 
challenging, as the vast majority of the space is in large 
multi-tenant buildings. Renewable energy 
Since 2015, we’ve purchased green natural gas to match 
the annual conventional natural gas used at the IG and 
Mackenzie head offices. Not only does this investment 
lower our GHG emissions enough to exceed our 2020 
goal, it also supports the development of the renewable 
energy industry in Canada. Our head office buildings are 
also located in cities with low-carbon electricity sources.
Waste and recycling 
Each of our operating companies is committed to 
reducing waste and recycling wherever possible. All of  
our corporate head office buildings offer multi-material 
recycling and organics composting services. We also 
donate used office and computer equipment to charities, 
and where donation of computer equipment is not 
possible, we partner with suppliers to recycle the 
remaining electronic equipment. 
Although we offer paper shredding and recycling programs 
at all offices, we’re challenged to offer consistent multi-
material recycling programs in IG leased offices across  
 the country due to varying municipal recycling capabilities  
and landlord approaches. IG continues to review options, 
including using our influence as a tenant to increase waste 
diversion services across the country. 
Centralized  
waste stations 
Completed replacement of all waste  
bins with centralized waste stations  
at Mackenzie and IG office buildings.
CO2Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting63
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportWe follow a design standard for offices that includes use 
of recycled materials, energy-efficient lighting and other 
environmentally friendly materials, while recycling 
furniture and producing as little waste as possible through 
the project. These standards are incorporated across the 
country as new offices are built and others are 
refurbished. 
Our IG and Mackenzie head office buildings recently 
transitioned to centralized waste bins, which have  
proven to divert 60% to 80% of waste from landfill in 
similar  buildings.
Travel and commuting 
As a global financial services company, we engage in 
business travel as a necessary part of our operations. 
Employees are encouraged to consider their business 
travel requirements carefully and, to the extent possible, 
we’ve transitioned to videoconferencing and online 
training to reduce travel needs and costs. Travel was very 
low in 2020 due to travel restrictions, and we offset 100% 
of that which did occur. We believe that there will be 
permanent reductions in the future due to the increased 
capabilities of virtual meetings and changes in practice.
We support our employees and clients in using low-
carbon commuting options. This includes financial 
support for employees using public transit programs  and providing access to lockers and showers and safe bike 
lock-ups, where possible. In the state-of-the-art IPC head 
office, we offer preferred parking and charging stations 
for green vehicles, as well as preferred parking for those 
who commute in a high-occupancy vehicle. We’re working 
with our landlords and property managers to expand the 
availability of electric charging stations for clients at IG 
region offices and IG and IPC head offices.
Reducing paper use 
We continually seek opportunities to reduce paper  
used for communications, marketing, reporting and  
other business operations. We also use recycled paper 
and paper from responsibly managed forests. Our 
photocopiers are pre-programmed to print double-  
sided and track usage to determine priorities for  
paper reduction projects. 
Our goal was to reduce personal paper use from 2017 
by 50% by year-end 2020. With employees working from 
home in 2020, our paper usage was reduced by 84%. 
We are currently focused on making changes across the 
business so that when we return to the office, we can 
make as many of these reductions permanent as possible.  GREENING OUR OFFICES
As part of our workplace of the future strategy, 
our new offices will include a variety of 
sustainability features. Here are some examples:
• To reduce plastic and food waste, water 
bottle filling stations will be placed 
throughout each floor, and waste bins will  
be centralized with recycling and composting
• To reduce energy, all workspaces will be 
located close to daylight, and areas that 
require less daylight will be placed close to 
the central core. The open office 
environment, light coloured surfaces and low 
privacy panels will encourage natural light 
into the space and, paired with sensors, will 
reduce electricity. 
• To promote indoor air quality and reduce 
chemical pollution, low VOC paints and 
adhesives will be used, and GREENGUARD-
certified furniture and low-emission 
carpeting will be  installed
• Existing construction materials and furniture 
will be donated and recycled to reduce items 
going to landfill. Recycled construction 
materials will include carpeting, drywall, 
ceiling tiles and fabric for acoustical wall 
treatments. Furniture will be donated to non-
profits wherever possible, with remaining 
materials recycled.RELATED PUBLICATIONS 
Environmental Policy
Supplier Code of Conduct
CDP ReportIndex 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting64
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability Report
ESG Data  Tables
The following data tables apply to IGM Financial and its operating companies.
Governance
GRI Standard Topic Measurement 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
BOARD COMPOSITION (a)
102-22 Board Directors Number 15 15 15 16 16
102-22 Executive Board Members Number 1 1 1 1 1
102-22 Non-Executive Board Members Number 14 14 14 15 15
102-22 Women Directors (b) Number 5 5 5 4 3
102-22, 405-1 Board Gender Diversity Percent of total Board 33% 33% 33% 25% 19%
Board Age Diversity
405-1 Over 70 Number 2 1 1 1 3
405-1 Between 50 and 70 Number 13 13 11 13 13
405-1 Between 30 and 49 Number 0 1 3 2 0
102-22 Board Tenure Average Years 11 10 9 8 10
102-22 Independent Board Members (b) Number 9 9 9 8 8
102-22 Board Independence Percentage 60% 60% 60% 50% 50%
102-22 Audit Committee Independence Percentage 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
102-22 Related Party and Conduct Review Committee Independence Percentage 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
102-22 Human Resources Committee Independence Percentage 50% 50% 50% 20% 33%
102-22 Governance and Nominating Committee Independence Percentage 50% 50% 50% 25% 25%
Average Board and Committee Meeting Attendance Rate Percentage 98% 93% 94% 90% 95%
102-22 Directors with 4 or less mandates (c) Percentage 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
AUDITOR’S FEES
Audit fees $ 2,427,000 2,746,000 2,562,000 2,616,000 2,263,000
Audit-related fees $ 110,000 244,000 376,000 311,000 127,000
Tax fees $ 163,000 74,000 64,000 149,000 128,000
All other fees $ 236,000 314,000 281,000 629,000 424,000
Fees paid for services other than the audit Percentage 14% 11% 11% 21% 19%
(a) All Board Composition data is as of the dates of the annual meetings in the respective years, except for the Average Board and Committee Meeting Attendance Rates, which are as of December 31.
(b) The Board of the Corporation is composed of 15 directors. Within the meaning of the CSA Guidelines and National Instrument 52-110 – Audit Committees and National Instrument 58-101 – Disclosure of Corporate Governance Practices  (the 
“Instruments”) and in the Board’s view, the following nine directors (constituting a 60% majority of the Board), namely Marc A. Bibeau, Marcel R. Coutu, Gary Doer, Susan Doniz, Sharon Hodgson, Sharon MacLeod, Susan J. McArthur, 
John McCallum and Beth Wilson, are independent and have no other relationships that could reasonably interfere with the exercise of their independent judgment in discharging their duties to the Corporation. Paul Desmarais, Jr.,  
André Desmarais, Claude Genereux, R. Jeffrey Orr and Gregory D. Tretiak, being executive officers of Power Corporation of Canada, are not independent within the meaning of the Instruments but, in the Board’s view, they are all  
independent of management. Jeffrey R. Carney, President and CEO, being an executive officer of the Corporation, is not independent.
(c) Represents mandates on public company boards outside Power Corporation and its subsidiaries (including Power Financial, Great-West Lifeco and IGM Financial).Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting65
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportEthics and Compliance
GRI Standard Topic Measurement 2020 2019 2018
POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS
415-1 Amount of political contributions $ 0 0 0
PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING
417-2 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and 
voluntary codes concerning product and service 
information and labeling in core documents, by type of 
outcomes. Core documents are those required under 
securities legislation in connection with distributions and 
continuous disclosure and include: Prospectuses, MRFPs, 
Fund Financial Statements, AIFs, Fund Facts. (d)Total number IGM Financial and its 
operating companies 
did not have any 
significant incidents of 
non-compliance in 2020.IGM Financial and its 
operating companies did 
not have any significant 
incidents of non-
compliance in 2019.IGM Financial and its 
operating companies did not 
have any significant incidents 
of non-compliance in 2018.
MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and 
voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, 
including advertising, promotion and sponsorship by type 
of outcomes (e,f)Total number IGM Financial and its 
operating companies 
did not have any 
significant incidents of 
non-compliance in 2020.IGM Financial and its 
operating companies did 
not have any significant 
incidents of non-
compliance in 2019.IGM Financial and its 
operating companies did not 
have any significant incidents 
of non-compliance in 2018.
CUSTOMER PRIVACY
418-1 Substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer 
privacy and losses of customer dataTotal number IGM Financial 
and its operating 
companies did not 
have any complaints 
substantiated by the 
Office of the Privacy 
Commissioner of 
Canada or provincial 
privacy commissioners 
in 2020.IGM Financial and its 
operating companies did 
not have any complaints 
substantiated by the 
Office of the Privacy 
Commissioner of Canada 
or provincial privacy 
commissioners in 2019.IGM Financial and its 
operating companies did 
not have any complaints 
substantiated by the Office of 
the Privacy Commissioner of 
Canada or provincial privacy 
commissioners in 2018.
LAWS AND REGULATIONS
419-1 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of 
non-monetary sanctions (g)Dollars, Total number Refer to Laws and 
Regulation section of 
2020 Annual Information 
Form .Refer to Laws and 
Regulation section of  
2019 Annual Information 
Form .Refer to Laws and  
Regulation section of  
2018 Annual Information 
Form .
(d) Non-compliance issues are defined as material misstatements in core documents that would require IGM Financial or its operating companies to amend documents, re-file with the regulators and remedy with clients.
(e) Marketing communications are defined as corporate marketing materials and advertising, including sponsorships that are covered by the Mutual Fund Sales Practices Rule. Communications prepared by advisors with the operating companies 
are included.
(f)  Non-compliance issues are defined as material misstatements that would require IGM Financial or its operating companies to amend documents and remedy with clients.
(g) Non-monetary sanctions are defined as significant suspensions or cancellations of registrations or material conditions or restrictions on registration pertaining to IGM Financial and its operating companies, and IG Wealth Management and 
Investment Planning Counsel advisors, imposed as a result of a hearing or formal settlement agreement with regulators or self-regulatory organizations. Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting66
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportTaxes
GRI Standard Topic Measurement 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
TAXES
Income taxes by jurisdiction
201-1 Federal Government $ million 123.7 142.9 151.4 112.7 135.5
201-1 British Columbia $ million 1.0 1.7 1.8 0.9 1.9
201-1 Alberta $ million 0.9 1.9 1.9 0.5 1.3
201-1 Saskatchewan $ million 0.3 0.6 0.6 0.2 0.5
201-1 Manitoba $ million 13.9 10.6 14.3 9.1 18.1
201-1 Ontario $ million 22.3 35.3 36.3 19.3 24.7
201-1 Quebec $ million 2.9 5.0 4.9 2.3 4.2
201-1 New Brunswick $ million 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.1 0.2
201-1 Nova Scotia $ million 0.1 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.2
201-1 PEI $ million 0.1 0.1 0.1 – 0.1
201-1 Newfoundland $ million 0.1 0.1 0.1 – 0.2
201-1 Total Canadian income taxes $ million 165.4 198.7 211.9 145.2 186.9
201-1 China $ million 1.4 1.0 1.1 1.1 0
201-1 Ireland $ million 1.0 1.2 1 1.8 2.1
201-1 Hong Kong $ million 0.8 0.3 0.6 0.5 0.4
201-1 United States $ million -0.2 0 0 0 0
201-1 Total international income taxes $ million 3.0 2.5 2.7 3.4 2.5
201-1 Total current income taxes (h) $ million 168.4 201.2 214.6 148.6 189.4
201-1 Total deferred income taxes $ million 32.3 18.5 -4.7 25.3 12.2
201-1 Total income taxes $ million 200.7 219.7 209.9 173.9 201.6
201-1Total other taxes – capital, commodity, payroll, property, business 
and other 
$ million 
29.8 
24.6 
28.4 
25.0 
25.5
(h) 2016 income taxes exclude the reduction in income tax provision estimates related to certain tax filings in the amount of $34 million.Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting67
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportSustainable Investing
GRI Standard Topic Measurement 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
MACKENZIE INVESTMENTS
Number of companies engaged on ESG issues
Internal staff engagements Number 621 299 131 N/A N/A
Service provider engagements Number 979 560 164 N/A N/A
Proxy votes cast during year by Mackenzie (i) Percentage 100 100 100 100 100
Sub-advisors who are PRI signatories (j) Percentage of AUM 95 90 90 86 N/A
IG WEALTH MANAGEMENT
Proxy votes cast during year by investment sub-advisors (i) Percentage 100 100 N/A N/A N/A
Sub-advisors who are PRI signatories Percentage of AUM 100 100 97 96 89
PRODUCTS DELIVERING SPECIFIC SOCIAL OR ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS – IGM FINANCIAL
Best-in-class, Thematic and Impact Investment Funds – assets 
under management 
$ million 
1,648.1 
471.9 
432.9  
541.2  
542.1 
Charitable Giving Funds – IG Wealth Management and Mackenzie 
Investments 
$ million 
298.2  
279.3 
239.2  
233.7  
211.4 
Registered Disability Savings Plans $ million 1,384.2 1,106.2 811.7 680.5 480.7 
Percentage of total assets under management subject to negative 
environmental or social screens (k) 
Percentage 
97.5 
98.0 
99.0 
0.3 
0.4
(i)  As per PRI Reporting.
(j)  All Mackenzie sub-advisors were PRI signatories as at December 31, excluding sub-advisors who were brought on through the acquisition of GLC, which closed on December 31. 
(k) Introduced exclusionary Policy on Cluster Munitions and Anti-Personnel Landmines in 2018 which applies to equity and corporate credit holdings, but not to investments in derivatives or other index exposures where our exposure is indirect 
and outside of our control.Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting68
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportTalent
GRI Standard Topic Measurement 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
EMPLOYEES BY REGION
102-8 British Columbia Total number 95 102 107 108 132
102-8 Alberta Total number 90 88 89 85 95
102-8 Saskatchewan Total number 15 17 18 20 31
102-8 Manitoba Total number 1,327 1,324 1,311 1,378 1,402
102-8 Ontario Total number 1,750 1,654 1,512 1,459 1,460
102-8 Quebec Total number 414 424 424 388 397
102-8 Atlantic Canada Total number 36 38 40 39 48
102-8 Canada – total Total number 3,727 3,647 3,501 3,477 3,565
102-8 China Total number 2 2 2 1 –
102-8 Ireland Total number 12 11 10 11 14
102-8 Hong Kong Total number 13 13 11 11 11
102-8 U.S. Total number 13 11 11 4 1
102-7/102-8 Total employees (l) Total number 3,767 3,684 3,535 3,504 3,591
IG WEALTH MANAGEMENT ADVISORS BY REGION
102-8 Alberta Total number 435 425 430 441 507
102-8 Atlantic Canada Total number 218 215 247 281 323
102-8 British Columbia Total number 381 394 429 482 573
102-8 Manitoba Total number 194 202 220 232 244
102-8 Ontario Total number 1,198 1,262 1,391 1,609 2,010
102-8 Quebec Total number 734 735 820 907 1,091
102-8 Saskatchewan Total number 144 148 174 194 197
Total advisors (l) Total number 3,304 3,381 3,711 4,146 4,945
IG WEALTH MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS BY REGION
102-8 Alberta Total number 179 210 227 236 224
102-8 Atlantic Canada Total number 91 82 94 100 98
102-8 British Columbia Total number 193 207 214 233 215
102-8 Manitoba Total number 69 84 96 99 106
102-8 Ontario Total number 467 500 540 581 600
102-8 Quebec Total number 270 298 334 359 346
102-8 Saskatchewan Total number 48 50 67 66 73
Total assistants (l) Total number 1,317 1,431 1,572 1,674 1,662
(l)  The total number of employees and advisors is based on head count as at December 31.Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting69
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportTalent continued
GRI Standard Topic Measurement 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
INVESTMENT PLANNING COUNSEL ADVISORS BY REGION 
102-8 Alberta Total number 68 66 67 69 69
102-8 Atlantic Canada Total number 29 34 41 42 45
102-8 British Columbia Total number 73 78 79 91 106
102-8 Manitoba Total number 38 36 37 39 40
102-8 Ontario Total number 429 449 470 497 510
102-8 Quebec Total number 38 34 24 25 28
102-8 Saskatchewan Total number 20 23 26 26 27
102-8 Territories Total number 1 1 1 1 1
Total advisors (l) Total number 696 721 745 790 826
EMPLOYEES BY GENDER AND TYPE 
102-8 Total Total number 3,767 3,684 3,535 3,504 3,591
102-8 Female Total number 2,128 2,109 2,032 2,043 2,105
102-8 Male Total number 1,637 1,575 1,503 1,461 1,486
102-8 Self-identified gender (m) Total number 2 N/A N/A N/A N/A
102-8 Permanent Total number 3,525 3,379 3,308 3,286 3,371
102-8 Female Total number 1,993 1,943 1,897 1,908 1,975
102-8 Male Total number 1,530 1,436 1,411 1,378 1,396
102-8 Self-identified gender Total number 2 N/A N/A N/A N/A
102-8 Temporary Total number 242 305 227 218 220
102-8 Female Total number 135 166 135 135 130
102-8 Male Total number 107 139 92 83 90
102-8 Self-identified gender Total number 0 N/A N/A N/A N/A
102-8 Full-time employees Total number 3,696 3,609 3,418 3,352 3,428
102-8 Female Total number 2,063 2,038 1,932 1,917 1,958
102-8 Male Total number 1,631 1,571 1,486 1,435 1,470
102-8 Self-identified gender Total number 2 N/A N/A N/A N/A
102-8 Part-time employees Total number 71 75 117 152 163
102-8 Female Total number 65 71 100 127 147
102-8 Male Total number 6 4 17 25 16
102-8 Self-identified gender Total number 0 N/A N/A N/A N/A
(l)  The total number of employees and advisors is based on head count as at December 31.
(m)  In 2020, we implemented an HR system that allows employees to self-identify gender in their profile.Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting70
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportTalent continued
GRI Standard Topic Measurement 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS 
102-41 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Percent of total employees 0 0 0 0 0
NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES 
401-1 Total new hires – permanent employees Total number 317 455 502 308 437
401-1 Percent total new hires (n) Percent of total employees 9.0 13.5 15.2 9.4 13.0
Employee age groups
401-1 Under 30 (n) Percent of total employees 31.2 26.6 28.1 33.1 30.0
401-1 Age 30–50 (n) Percent of total employees 58.0 59.1 58.4 52.3 60.6
401-1 Over 50 (n) Percent of total employees 10.7 14.3 13.5 14.6 9.4
Employee gender
401-1 Female (n) Percent of total employees 46.1 59.1 54.4 55.5 54.2
401-1 Male (n) Percent of total employees 53.9 40.9 45.6 44.5 45.8
401-1 Self-identified gender Percent of total employees – N/A N/A N/A N/A
EMPLOYEE TURNOVER
401-1 Total turnover – permanent employees Total number 275 512 616 525 409
401-1 Percent total turnover (n,o) Percent of total employees 7.8 15.2 18.6 16.0 12.1
401-1 Voluntary turnover – permanent employees Total number 191 341 468 280 284
401-1 Percent voluntary turnover (n,o) Percent of total employees 5.4 10.1 14.1 8.5 8.4
Employee age groups
401-1 Under 30 (n) Percent of total employees 24.4 23.6 16.9 16.4 16.1
401-1 Age 30–50 (n) Percent of total employees 53.8 55.5 45.0 49.0 56.2
401-1 Over 50 (n) Percent of total employees 21.8 20.9 38.1 34.7 27.6
Employee gender
401-1 Female (n) Percent of total employees 54.9 59.6 60.1 59.4 50.4
401-1 Male (n) Percent of total employees 45.1 40.4 39.9 40.6 49.6
401-1 Self-identified gender Percent of total employees – N/A N/A N/A N/A
TRAINING AND EDUCATION
404-3  Employees receiving performance reviews (p)  Percent of total eligible 
employees 
100.0 
100.0 
73.7 
85.8 
81.0
(n)  The ratio is calculated using permanent employees only.
(o)  In 2018, IGM offered a voluntary early retirement program. Excluding the impact of this program, total employee turnover was 14.2% and total voluntary employee turnover was 9.8%.
(p) As of 2015, IG Wealth Management Specialists are eligible for review. In 2018, significant changes were made to the performance review program at IG Wealth Management and the collection of data for this operating company was in 
transition.Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting71
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportTalent continued
GRI Standard Topic Measurement 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION
Employee gender
405-1 Female Percent of total employees 56.5 57.2 57.5 58.3 58.6
405-1 Male Percent of total employees 43.4 42.8 42.5 41.7 41.4
405-1 Self-identified gender Percent of total employees 0.1 N/A N/A N/A N/A
Employee age groups
405-1 Under 30 Percent of total employees 13.5 16.6 17.4 16.3 16.0
405-1 Age 30–50 Percent of total employees 61.0 59.0 59.2 58.2 57.8
405-1 Over 50 Percent of total employees 25.5 24.4 23.4 25.5 26.2
Employee executive (q)
405-1 Female Percent of total employees 33.3 34.0 30.9 27.5 25.0
405-1 Male Percent of total employees 66.7 66.0 69.1 72.5 75.0
405-1 Self-identified gender Percent of total employees – N/A N/A N/A N/A
405-1 Under 30 Percent of total employees – – – – –
405-1 Age 30–50 Percent of total employees 54.0 56.0 56.5 58.5 60.2
405-1 Over 50 Percent of total employees 46 44.0 43.5 41.5 39.8
Employee management (r)
405-1 Female Percent of total employees 47.4 45.2 45.4 42.8 43.3
405-1 Male Percent of total employees 52.6 54.8 54.6 57.2 56.7
405-1 Self-identified gender Percent of total employees –
405-1 Under 30 Percent of total employees 7 4.6 6.1 3.5 3.7
405-1 Age 30–50 Percent of total employees 67.8 68.6 68.5 67.4 65.9
405-1 Over 50 Percent of total employees 25.3 26.8 25.4 29.1 30.4
Employee non-management
405-1 Female Percent of total employees 65.6 64.7 66.5 66.9 67.7
405-1 Male Percent of total employees 34.3 35.3 33.5 33.1 32.3
405-1 Self-identified gender Percent of total employees 0.1 N/A N/A N/A N/A
405-1 Under 30 Percent of total employees 19.6 23.4 25.1 22.6 22.3
405-1 Age 30–50 Percent of total employees 57.0 55.0 54.4 54.7 54.3
405-1 Over 50 Percent of total employees 23.5 21.6 20.4 22.7 23.4
(q) Includes Vice-President and above.
(r)  Excludes executive management.Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting72
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportTalent continued
GRI Standard Topic Measurement 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION continued
IG Wealth Management advisors (l)
405-1 Female (s) Percent of total advisors 27 28 28 29 30
405-1 Male (s) Percent of total advisors 73 72 72 71 70
IG Wealth Management advisors – new recruits
405-1 Female Percent of total new advisors 26 39 36 37 36
405-1 Male Percent of total new advisors 74 61 64 63 64
Investment Planning Counsel advisors (l)
405-1 Female Percent of total advisors 20 20 21 20 20
405-1 Male Percent of total advisors 80 80 79 80 80
INJURIES AND FATALITIES
403-2 Injuries (t) Total number 2 7 6 5 3
403-2 Fatalities Total number 0 0 0 0 0
(l)  The total number of employees and advisors is based on head count as at December 31.
(s)  Restated prior years to include regional and division directors.
(t)  Injuries that resulted in lost time in the workplace subsequent to day of injury.Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting73
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportEnvironment
GRI Standard Topic Measurement 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2013 – Base year
ENERGY CONSUMED WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION ( u) 
302-1 Natural gas (heating) (v) Megawatt hours 3,414 5,163 5,827 5,334 5,099 5,861
302-1 Jet kerosene (w,aa) Megawatt hours 779 3,005 2,704 2,904 2,418 4,611
302-1 Back-up diesel fuel (x) Megawatt hours 14 0 0 12 0 0
302-1 Direct energy consumed Megawatt hours 4,206 8,168 8,532 8,249 7,517 10,472
302-1 Indirect energy (electricity) consumed Megawatt hours 4,270 5,441 5,648 5,884 5,940 6,648
302-1 Indirect energy (distribution of water) consumed Megawatt hours 15 31 33 31 44 33
302-1 Total energy consumed within the organization Megawatt hours 8,492 13,641 14,213 14,164 13,501 17,153
302-1% of electricity consumed within the organization 
from low-carbon sources (y) 
Percent of total 
100% 
100% 
100% 
100% 
100% 
100%
302-1% of energy consumed within the organization 
from low-carbon sources (y) 
Percent of total 
90% 
78% 
81% 
79% 
82% 
39%
ENERGY CONSUMED OUTSIDE THE ORGANIZATION 
302-2 Upstream leased properties Megawatt hours 41,667 48,345 48,148 50,827 48,081 48,020
302-2 Investment fund properties (z) Megawatt hours 306,420 321,367 313,626 309,654 298,941 290,102
302-2 Business travel – air (aa) Thousands of statute miles 1,951 13,043 13,515 16,524 20,400 15,334
302-2 Business travel – ground (aa) Thousands of kilometres 624 2,026 1,998 2,536 2,756 2,458
WATER AND WASTE CONSUMPTION 
303-1 Water consumed in operations Thousands of cubic metres 125 215 179 183 200 196
306-2 Waste generated in operations – owned facility (bb) Tonnes 41 60 55 67 100 100
ENERGY INTENSITY
302-3Total energy consumed in owned and leased office 
space and travel (cc) 
Megawatt hours 
49,380 
58,980 
59,656 
62,088 
59,164 
60,562
302-3 Number of people in owned and leased premises Number 8,179 8,437 8,703 8,910 9,796 9,050
302-3 Canadian office space (dd) Average square feet 1,939,470 1,921,216 1,987,246 2,062,954 2,038,441 1,926,250
302-3 Energy consumed per person Megawatt hours/person 6.04 6.99 6.82 6.92 5.99 6.69
302-3 Energy consumed per square foot Megawatt hours/square foot 0.025 0.031 0.030 0.030 0.029 0.031
(u)  Prior year consumption and emission data is restated as improved estimates and/or amendments to prior year factors are available. 
(v)  Conversion to MWh from volume of natural gas consumed was based on the conversion tool available at http://www.nrcan.gc.ca/energy/publications/efficiency/buildings/5985. Natural gas is used for heating.
(w)  Conversion to MWh from volume of jet kerosene consumed was based on the conversion tool available at https://www.neb-one.gc.ca/nrg/tl/cnvrsntbl/cnvrsntbl-eng.html#s2ss_auto5.
(x) Conversion to MWh from volume of back-up diesel fuel consumed was based on the conversion tool available at http://www.nrcan.gc.ca/energy/publications/efficiency/buildings/5985.
(y)  Renewable energy includes Manitoba Hydro and Bullfrog Power green natural gas.
(z) As of 2019, measuring energy used in the IG Real Property Fund, equal to 13,035,690 average square feet in 2020. New developments were included from the date of initial operation, while for purchased properties, data was estimated back 
to the 2013 baseline, based on their earliest available data. This methodology is in line with GHG Protocol Guidance. 
(aa) Significant decrease in 2020 due to travel restrictions due to COVID-19.
(bb) Waste generated from operations is from owned premises only. Waste is weighed by the third-party disposal contractor. 
(cc)  Includes owned and leased properties for operations. Does not include properties from investments – see footnote (z). 
(dd)  Square footage is amended as needed based on updates and recent measurings. Where no specific reason exists for a change in area (expansion, etc.), the change is made for all years from 2013–2020.Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting74
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportEnvironment continued
GRI Standard Topic Measurement 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2013 – Base year
TOTAL GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS ( u,ee,ff )
305-1 Market-based direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) (gg) Metric tonnes of CO2e 241 835 724 781 655 2,313
305-2 Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) Metric tonnes of CO2e 4 5 2 7 7 18
305-3 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3)
305-3 Emissions from upstream leased properties (gg) Metric tonnes of CO2e 4,484 5,767 5,991 6,367 6,495 7,305
305-3 Emissions from investment fund properties (z) Metric tonnes of CO2e 60,738 63,462 60,440 64,148 62,162 62,451
305-3 Business travel – air Metric tonnes of CO2e 288 1,851 1,921 2,453 3,000 2,251
305-3 Business travel – ground Metric tonnes of CO2e 134 437 430 546 594 530
305-3 Waste generated in operations Metric tonnes of CO2e 81 119 109 134 199 198
305-3 Distribution of water in owned premises Metric tonnes of CO2e 0.02 0.04 0.04 0.06 0.08 0.11
305-3 Total other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) Metric tonnes of CO2e 65,725 71,635 68,891 73,649 72,450 72,734
Total direct and indirect emissions (Scope 1, 2 and 3) Metric tonnes of CO2e 65,970 72,474 69,618 74,437 73,112 75,064
EMISSIONS INTENSITY 
305-4Total emissions from owned and leased office 
space and travel (cc) 
Metric tonnes of CO2e 
5,232 
9,012 
9,178 
10,289 
10,950 
12,613
305-4 Number of people in owned and leased premises Number 8,179 8,437 8,703 8,910 9,796 9,050
305-4 Canadian office space (dd) Average square feet 1,939,470 1,921,216 1,987,246 2,062,954 2,038,441 1,926,250
305-4 Emissions per person Metric tonnes of CO2e/person 0.64 1.07 1.05 1.15 1.12 1.39
305-4 Emissions per square foot Metric tonnes of CO2e/sq. ft. 0.003 0.005 0.005 0.005 0.005 0.007
(u)  Prior year consumption and emission data is restated as improved estimates and/or amendments to prior year factors are available. 
(z) As of 2019, measuring energy used in the IG Real Property Fund, equal to 13,035,690 average square feet in 2020. New developments were included from the date of initial operation, while for purchased properties, data was estimated back to 
the 2013 baseline, based on their earliest available data. This methodology is in line with GHG Protocol Guidance. 
(cc)  Includes owned and leased properties for operations. Does not include properties from investments – see footnote (z). 
(dd)  Square footage is amended as needed based on updates and recent measurings. Where no specific reason exists for a change in area (expansion, etc.), the change is made for all years from 2013–2020.
(ee)  Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions are consolidated based on a financial control approach.
(ff)  GHG emissions include emissions from the Canadian operations of IGM Financial and its operating companies and investments stated in footnote (cc), using a base year of 2013 – our first public year of reporting. Our GHG Emissions were 
calculated using the methodology outlined in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard Revised Edition. We applied global warming potentials from the National Inventory Report 1990–2017: Greenhouse 
Gas Sources and Sinks in Canada (Ottawa: Environment Canada, 2019).
(gg)  Beginning in 2015, emissions from Scope 1 and Scope 3 natural gas are calculated based on the purchase of Bullfrog renewable natural gas renewable energy credits.Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting75
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportGRI Index
GRI Standard Disclosure Response
GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
102-1: Name of the organization IGM Financial Inc.
102-2: Activities, brands, products, and services 2020 Sustainability Report – About Us (Page 4)
2020 Annual Information Form (Page 4–5)
102-3: Location of headquarters 2020 Sustainability Report – About Us (Page 4)
102-4: Location of operations 2020 Sustainability Report – About Us (Page 4)
102-5: Ownership and legal form 2020 Sustainability Report – About Us (Page 4)
2020 Annual Information Form (Page 4–5)
102-6: Markets served 2020 Sustainability Report – About Us (Page 4)
102-7: Scale of the organization 2020 Sustainability Report – About Us (Page 4)
2020 Annual Information Form (Page 4–5)
102-8: Information on employees and other workers 2020 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Talent (Pages 68–69)
102-9: Supply chain 2020 Sustainability Report – About Us (Page 4)
2020 Annual Information Form (Page 4–5)
102-10: Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 2020 Annual Information Form (Page 5–6)
102-11: Precautionary principle or approach 2020 Sustainability Report – Risk management (Page 27)
2020 Sustainability Report – Risk management – Managing environmental and social risks (Page 29)
2020 Sustainability Report – Appendix – TCFD Reporting (Page 84–87)
2020 Annual Report – Risk management (Page 77–89)
102-12: External initiatives 2020 Sustainability Report – Sustainable Development Goals (Page 14)
2020 Sustainability Report – Memberships and initiatives (Page 16)
2020 Sustainability Report – Awards and recognition (Page 17)
2020 Sustainability Report – Ethics and compliance (Page 23)
2020 Sustainability Report – Appendix – GRI Index, SASB Index, TCFD Reporting (Page 75–87)
102-13: Membership of associations 2020 Sustainability Report – Memberships and initiatives (Page 16)
102-14: Statement from most senior decision-maker 2020 Sustainability Report – Message from our CEO (Page 5)
102-16: Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour Corporate Sustainability Statement
2020 Sustainability Report – Ethics and compliance (Page 23)
IGM Financial Code of Business Conduct
Supplier Code of ConductIndex 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting76
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportGRI Standard Disclosure Response
102-17: Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 2020 Sustainability Report – Ethics and compliance (Page 23)
IGM Financial Code of Business Conduct
Whistleblower Policy
102-18: Governance structure 2020 Sustainability Report – Governance – Corporate sustainability governance (Page 21)
2020 Management Proxy Circular – Board and Committee Mandates (Page 40–41)
102-19: Delegating authority 2020 Sustainability Report – Governance – Corporate sustainability governance (Page 21)
2020 Sustainability Report – Appendix – TCFD Reporting (Page 84–87)
2020 Management Proxy Circular – Board and Committee Mandates (Page 40–41)
102-20: Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics 2020 Sustainability Report – Governance (Page 20)
2020 Sustainability Report – Governance – Corporate sustainability governance (Page 21)
102-22: Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 2020 Sustainability Report – Governance – Corporate sustainability governance (Page 21)
2020 Management Proxy Circular – Election of Directors (Page 7–15)
2020 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Governance (Page 64)
102-23: Chair of the highest governance body 2020 Management Proxy Circular – Election of Directors (Page 13)
102-24: Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 2020 Management Proxy Circular – Nomination and Assessment of Directors and Diversity (Page 43–45)
102-25: Conflicts of interest 2020 Sustainability Report – Governance (Page 20)
2020 Sustainability Report – Ethics and compliance (Page 23)
2020 Management Proxy Circular – Ethical Business Conduct (Page 43)
Statement of Corporate Governance Practices
102-26: Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values and strategy 2020 Sustainability Report – Governance (Page 20)
2020 Sustainability Report – Governance – Corporate sustainability governance (Page 21)
102-27: Collective knowledge of highest governance body 2020 Management Proxy Circular – Nomination and Assessment of Directors and Diversity (Page 43–45)
102-29: Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts 2020 Sustainability Report – Risk management (Page 25–27)
2020 Sustainability Report – Appendix – TCFD Reporting (Page 84-87)
2020 Annual Report – Risk management (Page 77–89)
102-30: Effectiveness of risk management processes 2020 Sustainability Report – Risk management (Page 27–29)
2020 Sustainability Report – Appendix – TCFD Reporting (Page 84–87)
2020 Annual Report – Risk management (Page 77–89)
102-31: Review of economic, environmental and social topics 2020 Sustainability Report – Risk management (Page 27–29)
2020 Sustainability Report – Appendix – TCFD Reporting (Page 84–87)
2020 Annual Report – Risk management (Page 77–89)
2020 Management Proxy Circular – Board and Committee Mandates (Page 40–41)
102-32: Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 2020 Sustainability Report – Governance – Corporate sustainability governance (Page 21)
102-33: Communicating critical concerns 2020 Sustainability Report – Governance – Corporate sustainability governance (Page 21)
102-34: Nature and number of critical concerns 2020 Sustainability Report – Governance – Corporate sustainability governance (Page 21)Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting77
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportGRI Standard Disclosure Response
102-35: Remuneration policies 2020 Management Proxy Circular – Compensation of Directors (Page 16–18) , Compensation Discussion 
and Analysis (Page 29–36)
102-36: Process for determining remuneration 2020 Management Proxy Circular – Compensation of Directors (Page 16–18) , Compensation Discussion 
and Analysis (Page 29–36)
102-40: List of stakeholder groups 2020 Sustainability Report – Engaging with stakeholders (Page 11–13)
102-41: Collective bargaining agreements 2020 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Talent – Collective bargaining agreements (Page 70)
102-42: Identifying and selecting stakeholders 2020 Sustainability Report – Engaging with stakeholders (Page 11–13)
Stakeholders are identified as any person or organization influential to our success or potentially impacted by 
our activities.
102-43: Approach to stakeholder engagement 2020 Sustainability Report – Material ESG topics (Page 10)
2020 Sustainability Report – Engaging with stakeholders (Page 11–13)
2020 Sustainability Report – Governance – Corporate sustainability governance (Page 21)
2020 Sustainability Report – Financial confidence (Page 34–37)
2020 Sustainability Report – Talent and culture – Employee engagement (Page 48)
2020 Sustainability Report – Community support (Page 58–60)
102-44: Key topics and concerns raised 2020 Sustainability Report – Sustainability strategy (Page 9)
2020 Sustainability Report – Material ESG topics (Page 10)
2020 Sustainability Report – Engaging with stakeholders (Page 11–12)
102-45: Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 2020 Sustainability Report – About this report (Page 3)
2020 Annual Report – Management’s Discussion and Analysis – IGM Financial Inc. (Page 25–27)
102-46: Defining report content and topic boundaries 2020 Sustainability Report – About this report (Page 3)
2020 Sustainability Report – Material ESG topics (Page 10)
102-47: List of material topics 2020 Sustainability Report – Sustainability strategy (Page 9)
2020 Sustainability Report – Material ESG topics (Page 10)
102-48: Restatements of information 2020 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table: Footnotes ‘s’ (Page 72) and ’u’ (Page 73) 
102-49: Changes in reporting 2020 Sustainability Report – About this report (Page 3)
102-50: Reporting period 2020 Sustainability Report – About this report (Page 3)
102-51: Date of most recent report July 2020
102-52: Reporting cycle 2020 Sustainability Report – About this report (Page 3)
102-53: Contact point for questions regarding the report 2020 Sustainability Report – About this report (Page 3)
102-54: Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 2020 Sustainability Report – About this report (Page 3)
102-55: GRI Content Index This table is the GRI Content Index.
102-56: External assurance 2020 Sustainability Report – About this report (Page 3)Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting78
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportGRI Standard Disclosure Response
SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES: ECONOMIC
Economic Performance 201-103: Management approach 2020 Sustainability Report – Creating shared value (Page 15)
2020 Sustainability Report – Risk management – Managing environmental and social risks (Page 29)
2020 Sustainability Report – Appendix – TCFD Reporting (Page 84-87)
2020 Management Proxy Circular
2021 CDP Climate Survey Response
201-1: Direct economic value generated and 
distributed2020 Sustainability Report – Creating shared value (Page 15)
2020 Annual Report
201-2: Financial implications and other risks and 
opportunities due to climate change2020 Sustainability Report – Risk management – Managing environmental and social risks (Page 29)
2020 Sustainability Report – Appendix – TCFD Reporting (Page 84–87)
2021 CDP Climate Survey Response – Risks and Opportunities
201-3: Defined benefit plan obligations and other 
retirement plans2020 Annual Report (Page 93)
Indirect Economic Impacts 203-103: Management approach 2020 Sustainability Report – Creating shared value (Page 15)
2020 Sustainability Report – Financial confidence (Page 34–37)
2020 Sustainability Report – Sustainable investing (Page 38–42)
2020 Management Proxy Circular – Board and Committee Mandates (Page 40–41)
203-2: Significant indirect economic impacts 2020 Sustainability Report – Creating shared value (Page 15)
2020 Sustainability Report – Financial confidence (Page 34–37)
2020 Sustainability Report – Sustainable investing (Page 38–42)
Anti-corruption 205-103: Management approach 2020 Sustainability Report – Ethics and compliance (Page 23)
2020 Sustainability Report – Ethics and compliance – Anti-corruption and anti-bribery (Page 24)
2020 Management Proxy Circular – Statement of Corporate Governance Practices – Ethical Business 
Conduct (Page 43)
Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Policy
205-2: Communication and training about anti-
corruption policies and procedures2020 Sustainability Report – Earning and Sustaining Trust – 2020 highlights (Page 19)
2020 Sustainability Report – Ethics and compliance – Anti-corruption and anti-bribery (Page 24)
2020 Management Proxy Circular – Statement of Corporate Governance Practices – Ethical Business 
Conduct (Page 43)
Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Policy
205-3: Confirmed incidents of corruption and 
actions taken2020 Sustainability Report – Ethics and compliance – Anti-corruption and anti-bribery (Page 24)
2020 Annual Information Form – Legal Proceedings and Regulatory Actions (Page 13)Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting79
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportGRI Standard Disclosure Response
SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES: ENVIRONMENTAL
Energy 302-103: Management approach 2020 Sustainability Report – Risk management – Managing environmental and social risks (Page 29)
2020 Sustainability Report – Sustainable investing (Page 38–42)
2020 Sustainability Report – Environmental footprint (Page 61-63)
2021 CDP Climate Survey Response
Environmental Policy
302-1: Energy consumption within the organization 2020 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Environment – Energy (Page 73)
302-2: Energy consumption outside the organization 2020 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Environment – Energy (Page 73)
302-3: Energy intensity 2020 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Environment – Energy (Page 73)
302-4: Reduction of energy consumption 2020 Sustainability Report – Environmental footprint (Page 61–63)
2021 CDP Climate Survey Response
Emissions 306-103: Management approach 2020 Sustainability Report – Risk management – Managing environmental and social risks (Page 29)
2020 Sustainability Report – Sustainable investing (Page 38–42)
2020 Sustainability Report – Environmental footprint (Page 61–63)
2020 Sustainability Report – Appendix – TCFD Reporting (Page 84–87)
2021 CDP Climate Survey Response
Environmental Policy
305-1: Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions 2020 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Environment – Emissions (Page 74)
305-2: Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 2020 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Environment – Emissions (Page 74)
305-3: Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 2020 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Environment – Emissions (Page 74)
305-4: Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 2020 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Environment – Emissions (Page 74)
305-5: Reduction GHG emissions 2020 Sustainability Report – Environmental footprint (Page 61–63)
2021 CDP Climate Survey Response
MATERIAL TOPIC: SOCIAL
Employment 401-103: Management approach 2020 Sustainability Report – Risk management – Managing environmental and social risks (Page 29)
2020 Sustainability Report – Talent and culture (Page 45–49)
401-1: New employee hires and employee turnover 2020 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Talent – New employee hires and turnover (Page 70)
401-2: Benefits provided to full-time employees 
that are not provided to temporary or part-time 
employees2020 Sustainability Report – Talent and culture (Page 46–47)
2020 Management Proxy Circular – Statement of Executive Compensation – Retirement Plan Benefits  
(Page 26–27)
401-3: Parental leave 2020 Annual Report – Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies (Page 92)
2020 Sustainability Report – Diversity, equity and inclusion (Page 53)Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting80
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportGRI Standard Disclosure Response
Training and Education 404-103: Management approach 2020 Sustainability Report – Risk management – Managing environmental and social risks (Page 29)
2020 Sustainability Report – Talent and culture (Page 45–49)
404-2: Programs for upgrading employee skills and 
transition assistance programs2020 Sustainability Report – Talent and culture (Page 50–51)
404-3: Percentage of employees receiving regular 
performance and career development reviews2020 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Talent – Training and education (Page 70)
Diversity and Equal 
Opportunity405-103: Management approach 2020 Sustainability Report – Risk management – Managing environmental and social risks (Page 29)
2020 Sustainability Report – Diversity, equity and inclusion (Page 53–55)
405-1: Diversity of governance bodies and employees 2020 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Talent – Diversity, equity and inclusion (Page 71–72)
Public Policy 415-103: Management approach 2020 Sustainability Report – Ethics and compliance (Page 23–25)
IGM Financial Lobbying Policy
415-1: Political Contributions 2020 Sustainability Report – Ethics and compliance – Political involvement (Page 25)
2020 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Ethics and compliance – Political contributions (Page 65)
Marketing and Labelling 417-103: Management approach 2020 Sustainability Report – Ethics and compliance (Page 23–26)
2020 Sustainability Report – Information security and privacy – Privacy (Page 31)
2020 Sustainability Report – Material ESG topics (Page 10)
2020 Annual Report – Wealth Management – Review of the Business (Page 41–49)
IGM Privacy Policy
417-1: Requirements for product and service 
information and labeling2020 Sustainability Report – Ethics and compliance – Responsible marketing and sales (Page 25)
417-2: Incidents of non-compliance concerning 
product and service information and labeling2020 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Ethics and compliance (Page 65)
417-3: Incidents of non-compliance concerning 
marketing communications2020 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Ethics and compliance (Page 65)
Customer Privacy 418-103: Management approach 2020 Sustainability Report – Information security and privacy (Page 30–31)
2020 Annual Report – Risk Management – Technology and Cyber Risk (Page 84)
IGM Privacy Policy
418-1: Substantiated complaints concerning 
breaches of customer privacy and losses of  
customer data2020 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Ethics and compliance (Page 65)
Socioeconomic Compliance 419-103: Management approach 2020 Sustainability Report – Governance – Corporate sustainability governance (Page 21)
2020 Sustainability Report – Ethics and compliance (Page 23)
IGM Financial Code of Business Conduct
419-1: Non-compliance with laws and regulations in 
the social and economic area2020 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Ethics and compliance (Page 65)
2020 Annual Information Form – Legal Proceedings and Regulatory Actions (Page 13)Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting81
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportGRI Standard Disclosure Response
SECTOR DISCLOSURES
Product Portfolio PP-103: Management Approach 2020 Sustainability Report – Sustainable Investing (Page 38–42)
2020 Annual Report – Wealth Management – Review of the Business (Page 41–49)
G4-FS6: Percentage of the portfolio for business lines 
by specific region, size (e.g., micro/SME/large) and 
by sector2020 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Sustainable Investing (Page 67)
G4-FS7: Monetary value of products and services 
designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each 
business line broken down by purpose2020 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Sustainable Investing (Page 67)
Active Ownership AO-103: Management Approach 2020 Sustainability Report – Sustainable investing (Page 38)
2020 Annual Report – Wealth Management – Review of the Business (Page 41–49)
IG Wealth Management Sustainable Investing Policy
Mackenzie Investments Sustainable Investing Policy
Counsel Portfolio Services Sustainable Investing Policy
IG Wealth Management 2020 PRI Report
Mackenzie Investments 2020 PRI Report
G4-FS10: Percentage and number of companies 
held in the institution’s portfolio with which 
the reporting organization has interacted on 
environmental or social issues2020 Sustainability Report – Sustainable investing (Page 41)
2020 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Sustainable Investing (Page 67)
IG Wealth Management 2020 PRI Report
Mackenzie Investments 2020 PRI Report
G4-FS11: Percentage of assets subject to positive and 
negative environmental or social screening2020 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Sustainable Investing (Page 67)
G4-FS12: Proxy voting
Product and Service Labeling PSL-103: Management Approach 2020 Sustainability Report – Ethics and Compliance (Page 25–26) 
2020 Sustainability Report – Financial confidence (Page 34–37)
2020 Annual Report – Strategic Investments and Other – Consolidated Financial Position (Page 68–69)
G4-FS15: Policies for the fair design and sale of 
financial products and services2020 Sustainability Report – Ethics and Compliance (Page 25–26) 
2020 Sustainability Report – Financial confidence (Page 34–37)
G4-FS16: Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by 
type of beneficiary2020 Sustainability Report – Financial confidence (Page 34–37)Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting82
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportSASB Index
Asset Management & Custody Activities Sustainability Accounting Standard
SASB Topic SASB Code Accounting Metric Category Response
Transparent 
Information & 
Fair Advice for 
CustomersFN-AC-270a.2 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of 
legal proceedings associated with marketing 
and communication of financial product related 
information to new and returning customersQuantitative ESG Data Table: Ethics and compliance (pg. 65)
FN-AC-270a.3 Description of approach to informing customers 
about products and servicesDiscussion and 
Analysis2020 Corporate Sustainability Report: Ethics and compliance (pg. 23)  
2020 Corporate Sustainability Report: Responsible marketing and sales  
(pg. 25) and Knowing our clients and products (pg. 26)  
2020 Corporate Sustainability Report: Privacy (pg. 31)
Employee Diversity 
& InclusionFN-AC-330a.1 Percentage of gender and racial/ethnic group 
representation for (1) executive management,  
(2) non-executive management, (3) professionals,  
and (4) all other employeesQuantitative ESG Data Table: Diversity, equity and inclusion (pg. 71)
Incorporation
of Environmental, 
Social, and 
Governance Factors
in Investment 
Management 
& AdvisoryFN-AC-410a.1 Amount of assets under management, by asset  
class, that employ (1) integration of environmental, 
social, and governance (ESG) issues, (2) sustainability 
themed investing, and (3) screeningQuantitative IG Wealth Management PRI Report   
Mackenzie Investments PRI Report
FN-AC-410a.2 Description of approach to incorporation of 
environmental, social, and governance (ESG) factors  
in investment and/or wealth management processes 
and strategiesDiscussion and 
Analysis2020 Corporate Sustainability Report: Sustainable investing (pg. 38) 
IG Wealth Management Sustainable Investing Policy
Mackenzie Investments Sustainable Investing Policy
Counsel Portfolio Services Sustainable Investing Policy
IG Wealth Management PRI Report 
Mackenzie Investments PRI ReportFN-AC-410a.3 Description of proxy voting and investee  
engagement policies and proceduresDiscussion and 
Analysis
Business EthicsFN-AC-510a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal 
proceedings associated with fraud, insider trading, 
anti-trust, anti-competitive behaviour, market 
manipulation, malpractice, or other related financial 
industry laws or regulationsQuantitative ESG Data Table: Ethics and compliance (pg. 65)
FN-AC-510a.2 Description of whistleblower policies and procedures Discussion and 
Analysis2020 Corporate Sustainability Report: Ethics and compliance (pg. 23)  
Whistleblower PolicyIndex 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting83
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportAsset Management & Custody Activities Sustainability Accounting Standard continued
SASB Topic SASB Code Accounting Metric Category Response
Systemic Risk 
ManagementFN-AC-550a.1 Percentage of open-end fund assets under 
management by category of liquidity classificationQuantitative IGM Financial is in agreement with SASB’s proposed removal of Systemic 
Risk Management as a relevant disclosure topic. 
SASB considered feedback from companies and investors that (1) the 
current disclosure topic does not reflect relevant sustainability risks of 
companies in the industry and that (2) the feasibility of developing globally 
applicable accounting metrics that would provide value-added, decision-
useful information to investors is low.FN-AC-550a.2 Description of approach to incorporation of liquidity 
risk management programs into portfolio strategy and 
redemption risk managementDiscussion and 
Analysis
FN-AC-550a.3 Total exposure to securities financing transactions Quantitative
FN-AC-550a.4 Net exposure to written credit derivatives Quantitative
Activity Metrics FN-AC-000.B Total AUM Quantitative $240.0B in Assets Under Management and Advisement at December 31, 2020.Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting84
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportTCFD Reporting
We believe that financial services companies have an important role to play in addressing climate change, which is why we support the Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations. We recognize that full implementation of TCFD will be a multi-year journey for IGM and our operating companies, involving various business 
areas including enterprise risk management, corporate sustainability, investment management and financial reporting. Our support for TCFD is also aligned with our longstanding 
commitment to participate in the annual CDP survey, which promotes corporate disclosures on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and climate change management. For the past 
four years, we were recognized by CDP as a corporate leader in climate change disclosure. 
Here is a summary of our approach in line with the TCFD recommendations, including the supplemental guidance for asset managers:
TFCD Topic Our IGM Approach
GOVERNANCE: Disclose the organization’s governance around climate-related risks and opportunities 
Describe the Board’s oversight 
of climate-related risks and 
opportunitiesThe Board of Directors of IGM Financial (IGM) is responsible for providing oversight on risk and strategy, which includes sustainability and climate-related 
matters. 
Our Board has approved a Corporate Sustainability Statement, which formalizes our longstanding commitment to corporate sustainability. The Board 
monitors implementation of sustainability policies and strategy, and discusses plans and ESG issues at least annually.
Through its Risk Committee, the Board is responsible for ensuring that material climate-related issues are appropriately identified, managed and monitored. 
Its responsibilities include ensuring that appropriate procedures are in place to identify and manage risks and establish risk tolerances; ensuring that 
appropriate policies, procedures and controls are implemented to manage risks; and reviewing the risk management process on a regular basis to confirm 
that it is functioning effectively. 
Describe management’s role in 
assessing and managing climate-
related risks and opportunitiesIGM’s Sustainability Committee is composed of senior executives who are responsible for ensuring implementation of policy and strategy, establishing goals 
and initiatives, measuring progress, and approving annual reporting of environmental, social and governance (ESG) matters. Our executive Risk Management 
Committee is responsible for oversight of the risk management process, including environmental and social risks. Our Chief Financial Officer oversees 
implementation of the corporate sustainability and enterprise risk management programs.
We have established an enterprise-wide TCFD Working Group of senior leaders to lead the planning and implementation of the TCFD recommendations. 
This working group is focused on enhancing our knowledge and tools to quantify climate risks in tandem with our industry, further integrating climate into 
our business strategy, operations and product offerings, evolving our engagement approach with investee companies, and addressing increased disclosure 
expectations.
The senior-most leaders at each of our operating companies have primary ownership and accountability for the ongoing climate risk management associated 
with their respective activities. 
At Mackenzie Investments (Mackenzie), climate risks and opportunities related to its investment funds are overseen by the Sustainable Investing Committee, 
which is chaired by the Head of Sustainable Investing with executive membership from across IGM and Mackenzie, including the Mackenzie President and 
Chief Executive Officer, and Co-Chief Investment Officers. 
At IG Wealth Management (IG), the Sustainable Investing Committee is responsible for implementation, guidance and oversight of sustainable investing 
commitments, policies and strategies. The Committee is chaired by the Senior Vice-President, IG Investments and includes representation from the distribution, 
marketing, legal and IGM corporate sustainability teams. The Investment Committee is responsible for oversight and approval of IG’s product actions. Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting85
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportTFCD Topic Our IGM Approach
STRATEGY: Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy and financial planning where such information 
is material
Describe the climate-related risks 
and opportunities the organization 
has identified over the short-, 
medium-, and long-termAs wealth and asset managers, our primary business is the provision of advice and investment services where we earn fees as a percentage of assets under 
advisement. Our climate-related risks and opportunities can be grouped into the physical impacts of climate change and the impacts related to the transition 
to a low-carbon economy.
Describe the impact of climate-
related risks and opportunities 
on the organization’s businesses, 
strategy and financial planningRisks
Our climate risks relate primarily to the potential for physical or transition risks to: negatively affect the performance of our clients’ investments, resulting 
in reduced fee revenue; harm our reputation and create market risks that weaken client demand and stakeholder trust; or lead to new regulatory or legal 
requirements that increase costs. We are also exposed to the impact of extreme weather events on our corporate and investment properties, and on the 
properties and valuations of client mortgages, which if not addressed proactively, could affect financial performance and the ability to use the assets long-term. 
Our operating companies are committed to sustainable investing programs and policies that include a focus on climate risk. We provide data and tools 
for our investment teams to carry out climate analysis and we integrate material climate risks into our investment and oversight processes for investment 
management sub-advisors. As we work to implement the TCFD recommendations, we are devoting increased resources to areas such as training, analysis, 
metrics, target-setting, strategy planning and working with collaborative organizations. 
Opportunities
Stakeholder expectations are increasing regarding our role in tackling climate change. To meet growing demand for sustainable investing, Mackenzie, IG and 
Investment Planning Counsel (IPC) all continue to enhance their sustainable investing practices. At Mackenzie, sustainable investing is an area of strategic 
emphasis, and we have established a dedicated function that reports to the CEO. We also have an investment boutique, Greenchip, which is exclusively 
focused on thematic investing to fight climate change. At IG, we have integrated environmental and climate considerations into our investment manager 
sub-advisory selection and oversight processes. We are also focused on educating and communicating with clients and advisors on sustainable investing and 
climate change.
We also recognize opportunities relating to energy efficiency in our operations that can reduce expenses and are increasingly of interest to our stakeholders, 
including current and prospective employees.
Describe the resilience of the 
organization’s strategy, taking into 
consideration different climate-
related scenarios, including a 2°C 
or lower scenarioWe are in the process of implementing a tool to enhance our quantitative assessment of climate risks by analyzing emissions and other climate-related 
information at the investee company and portfolio levels. This system enables us to model potential transition pathways and track our portfolios against the 
goal of limiting global warming to 2°C above pre-industrial levels and examine the adequacy of emissions reductions over time in meeting the goals of the 
Paris Agreement.
We are exploring scenario analysis tools to manage physical and transition risk across our investments. As we are invested across a wide range of asset 
classes and regions, data availability and accuracy is currently a challenge but we are closely following the new climate risk management tools as they become 
available. We are in discussion with several external data providers to support us in our efforts to run climate-related scenario analysis across our investments.
Describe how risks and opportunities 
are factored into relevant products 
or investment strategies and 
describe related transition impactIG and Mackenzie are signatories to the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). We also require our investment manager sub-advisors at IG to be 
PRI signatories. Under the PRI, investors formally commit to incorporate ESG issues, including climate change, into their investment decision making and 
active ownership processes. In addition, IG, Mackenzie and IPC have implemented sustainable investment policies outlining the practices at their respective 
companies.
At Mackenzie, sustainable investing is an area of strategic emphasis, and the Sustainable Investing Centre of Excellence leads ESG integration and the 
creation of innovative investment solutions at the firm. The Greenchip investment boutique focuses exclusively on climate-related products such as the 
Mackenzie Global Environmental Equity Fund, which was Mackenzie’s fastest-growing fund in 2020. The Fund invests in opportunities in environmental 
sectors, notably in the energy transition from fossil fuels to renewable power.Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting86
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportTFCD Topic Our IGM Approach
RISK MANAGEMENT: Disclose how the organization identifies, assesses and manages climate-related risks
Describe the organization’s 
processes for identifying and 
assessing climate-related riskAssessment and management of climate-related risks is integrated into our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Framework. 
Significant risks that may adversely affect the ability to achieve our strategic and business objectives are identified through the ongoing ERM process. We 
use a consistent methodology across our organizations and business units for identification and assessment of risks, considering factors both internal and 
external to the organization. These risks are broadly grouped into five categories: financial, operational, strategic, business, and environmental and social 
(including climate change risks). 
Risks are assessed by evaluating the impact and likelihood of the potential risk event after consideration of controls and any risk transfer activities. The results 
of these assessments are considered relative to risk appetite and tolerances and may result in action plans to adjust the risk profile. Risk assessments are 
monitored and reviewed on an ongoing basis by business units and by oversight areas including the ERM department. The ERM department promotes and 
coordinates communication and consultation to support effective risk management and escalation. It regularly reports on the results of risk assessments and 
on the assessment process to the Risk Management Committee and to the Board of Directors.
At Mackenzie, boutique investment teams are each responsible for determining when and how climate change is material and for incorporating transition 
and physical risks into their investment process. The teams have access to ESG data tools and a service provider for comprehensive global investor 
engagement who prioritizes climate change engagement. To aid in the assessment of material climate risks and opportunities, Mackenzie is in the process of 
implementing the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Framework and a tool to enhance climate data and analytics. 
At IG and IPC, our primary role is to monitor and evaluate the sustainable investing practices of investment manager sub-advisors, including the integration of 
climate risks into their investment and active ownership practice. Describe the organization’s 
processes for managing climate-
related risks
Describe how processes for 
identifying, assessing and managing 
climate-related risks are integrated 
into the organization’s overall 
risk management
Describe how material climate-
related risks are identified and 
assessed for each product or 
investment strategy
Describe how material climate-
related risks are managed for each 
product or investment strategy
Describe engagement activity with 
investee companies to encourage 
better disclosure and practices 
related to climate-related risks in 
order to improve data availability 
and asset managers’ ability to assess 
climate-related risksTo maximize stewardship efforts, engagement at Mackenzie is undertaken by both internal investment teams and by EOS at Federated Hermes (EOS), a 
third-party engagement specialist. Climate change is a priority engagement topic for EOS. At IPC, a pooled engagement service provider is used to work with 
companies to enhance corporate behaviour and strategy related to topics including climate change. Through these service providers, our voice is combined 
with those of like-minded shareholders to exert greater influence over ESG issues, including climate change. At IG, investment management sub-advisors are 
responsible for engagement activities.
In 2020, Mackenzie signed on to Climate Action 100+, an investor-led initiative engaging companies on improving climate change governance, cutting 
emissions and strengthening climate-related financial disclosures. IG will be joining in 2021. Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting87
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportTFCD Topic Our IGM Approach
METRICS AND TARGETS: Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities where such information is material
Disclose the metrics used by the 
organization to assess climate-
related risks and opportunities 
in line with its strategy and risk 
management processWe set, monitor and report on climate change-related metrics and targets annually in our detailed CDP response and in this report. 
At Mackenzie, our boutique investment teams are each responsible for integrating ESG into the investment process, including determining appropriate 
metrics to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in our investment strategies. The teams have access to ESG data tools and metrics to assist in 
their assessment.
We report Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions, where possible, including Scope 3 investment emissions related to our real assets in the IG Real Property Fund. 
We are currently implementing a tool to measure the carbon footprint of our investment portfolios.
Our Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Statement for the year ended December 31, 2020 was independently assured by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC).  
PwC performed a limited assurance engagement over the following: total Scope 1 emissions, total Scope 2 emissions and business travel (air and ground) 
Scope 3 emissions.Describe metrics used to assess 
climate-related risks and 
opportunities in each product or 
investment strategy
Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if 
appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions, and the 
related risks
Asset managers should provide the 
weighted average carbon intensity, 
where data are available or can 
be reasonably estimated, for each 
product or investment strategy
Describe the targets used by the 
organization to manage climate-
related risks and opportunities 
and performance against targetsWe have set initial emissions reduction and renewable energy targets in our operations and have met, or are on track to meet, these goals: 40% reduction 
in absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 2020; 50% reduction in absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 2036; and 80% of Scope 1 natural gas to be 
renewable by 2020. As we continue to develop our climate strategy, we will revise our targets to continue our progress.Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting88
IGM Financial  2020 Sustainability ReportForward-looking statements 
Certain statements in this Corporate Sustainability Report 
and the documents incorporated by reference, other 
than  statements of historical fact, are forward-looking 
statements based on certain assumptions and reflect 
IGM Financial’s and its subsidiaries’ current expectations. 
Forward-looking statements are provided for the 
purposes of assisting the reader in understanding the 
Corporation’s financial position and results of operations 
as at and for the periods ended on certain dates and 
to present information about management’s current 
expectations and plans relating to the future and 
readers are cautioned that such statements may not be 
appropriate for other purposes. These statements may 
include, without limitation, statements regarding the 
operations, business, financial condition, expected 
financial results, performance, prospects, opportunities, 
priorities, targets, goals, ongoing objectives, strategies 
and outlook of the Corporation and its subsidiaries, as 
well as the outlook for North American and international 
economies, for the current fiscal year and subsequent 
periods. Forward-looking statements include statements 
that are predictive in nature, depend upon or refer to 
future events or conditions, or include words such as 
“expects”, “anticipates”, “plans”, “believes”, “estimates”, 
“seeks”, “intends”, “targets”, “projects”, “forecasts” or 
negative versions thereof and other similar expressions, 
or future or conditional verbs such as “may”, “will”, 
“should”, “would” and “could”. 
This information is based upon certain material factors 
or assumptions that were applied in drawing a conclusion 
or making a forecast or projection as reflected in the forward-looking statements, including the perception of 
historical trends, current conditions and expected future 
developments, as well as other factors that are believed 
to be appropriate in the circumstances. While the 
Corporation considers these assumptions to be 
reasonable based on information currently available 
to management, they may prove to be incorrect. 
By its nature, this information is subject to inherent risks 
and uncertainties that may be general or specific and 
which give rise to the possibility that expectations, 
forecasts, predictions, projections or conclusions will 
not prove to be accurate, that assumptions may not be 
correct and that objectives, strategic goals and priorities 
will not be achieved. 
A variety of factors, many of which are beyond the 
Corporation’s and its subsidiaries’ control, affect the 
operations, performance and results of the Corporation, 
and its subsidiaries, and their businesses, and could 
cause actual results to differ materially from current 
expectations of estimated or anticipated events or results. 
These factors include, but are not limited to: the impact 
or unanticipated impact of general economic, political 
and market factors in North America and internationally, 
interest and foreign exchange rates, global equity and 
capital markets, management of market liquidity and 
funding risks, changes in accounting policies and methods 
used to report financial condition (including uncertainties 
associated with critical accounting assumptions and 
estimates), the effect of applying future accounting 
changes, operational and reputational risks, business 
competition, technological change, changes in government regulations and legislation, changes in tax 
laws, unexpected judicial or regulatory proceedings, 
catastrophic events, outbreaks of disease or pandemics 
(such as COVID-19), the Corporation’s and its subsidiaries’ 
ability to complete strategic transactions, integrate 
acquisitions and implement other growth strategies, 
and the Corporation’s and its subsidiaries’ success in 
anticipating and managing the foregoing factors. 
The reader is cautioned that the foregoing list of factors 
is not exhaustive of the factors that may affect any of the 
Corporation’s forward-looking statements. The reader 
is also cautioned to consider these and other factors, 
uncertainties and potential events carefully and not place 
undue reliance on forward-looking statements. 
Other than as specifically required by applicable Canadian 
law, the Corporation undertakes no obligation to update 
any forward-looking statements to reflect events or 
circumstances after the date on which such statements 
are made, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated 
events, whether as a result of new information, future 
events or results, or otherwise. 
Additional information about the risks and uncertainties 
of the Corporation’s business and material factors or 
assumptions on which information contained in forward- 
looking statements is based is provided in its disclosure 
materials, including this Annual Information Form and its 
most recent Management’s Discussion and Analysis, filed 
with the securities regulatory authorities in Canada, 
available at www.sedar.com .Index 
OverviewEarning and  
sustaining trustHelping Canadians secure 
their financial futureEmpowering  
our peopleStrengthening  
our communities ESG Data Tables GRI Index  SASB Index TCFD Reporting
TCFD Reporting