2014 Corporate Responsibility Update
Responsibility 
Throughout
Table of contents
2   A message from our CEOs 
3   Who we are
 Our operating companies
5   How we engage our stakeholders
6   Topics of engagement in 2014
7   Our approach to corporate responsibility 
8   Operational integrity
 Goals, objectives and 2014 results
 Governance, risk management and compliance
11  Our economy and 2014 results
 Goals, objectives and 2014 results
 Promoting financial literacy 
14 Our clients 
 Goals, objectives and 2014 results
 Value through professional advisors
 Responsible products and services
 Providing a rewarding client experience
21 Our people 
 Goals, objectives and 2014 results
  Attracting and retaining talent, training and  
development, and diversity and inclusion
24 Our environment
 Goals, objectives and 2014 results
 Reducing our environmental footprint
 Engaging our people to make a difference
30 Our communities 
 Goals, objectives and 2014 results
 Community giving
 Community service
34  About this report
35  Data tables42  GRI IndexIf you have comments, suggestions or questions, email us at responsibility@igmfinancial.com. For more  
details about our corporate responsibility activities, visit Corporate Responsibility on IGMFinancial.com.OPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIESA message from our CEOs
Responsibility throughout: an update on our progress
IGM Financial made significant progress in 
advancing its corporate responsibility strategy in 2014. This report provides an overview of our activities for the year, highlighting how we took 
action on the goals and objectives that guide us 
in our efforts to be a sustainable company. 
We are in the daily business of helping Canadians 
to plan for and achieve their financial aspirations. In this role we have a long-standing commitment 
to act responsibly in everything we do. We believe 
that companies who regard environmental, social, and governance management as integral to their corporate strategy demonstrate strong performance over the long term. 
In 2014 we reached several milestones: 
 3We published our first Corporate 
Responsibility Report, guided by Global Reporting Initiative G4 Sustainability guidelines. 3Investors Group and Mackenzie Investments became signatories to the United Nations-supported Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). Together, the two 
companies represent the largest suite of 
mutual funds in Canada that are parties to the PRI.
 3We were named to CDP’s Canadian Climate Disclosure Leadership Index for the quality of our reporting on greenhouse gas emissions and climate change.
This spring, IGM Financial was recognized by Sustainalytics as one of the top five performing Canadian diversified financial services companies and was named to the Jantzi Social Index (JSI).
We remain committed to growing our strategy, 
engaging our stakeholders, and enhancing 
public reporting on the issues important to our 
clients, the financial advisors and Consultants who serve them, our employees, our share-holders, and our communities. 
We thank everyone in the organization for their 
ongoing contributions to our progress in 2014.  Murray J. Taylor  Jeffrey R. Carney
Co-President and   Co-President and 
Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer
IGM Financial Inc.  IGM Financial Inc.  
2
OPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIESIGM Financial Inc. is one of Canada’s premier 
personal financial services companies and one of the country’s largest managers and distribu-tors of mutual funds and other managed asset 
products.  IGM Financial builds its business 
through a strategic focus on multiple distribution opportunities, delivering high-quality advice and innovative investment and service solutions for investors. Strong relationships are at the core of the IGM Financial philosophy.
IGM Financial’s activities are carried out prin-
cipally through three operating companies – Investors Group Inc., Mackenzie Financial Corporation (“Mackenzie Investments”) and Investment Planning Counsel Inc. – each of which operates as a distinct entity in the finan-cial services market. 
The Company’s head office is in Winnipeg, 
Manitoba, and its common shares trade on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX: IGM). Its majority shareholder is Power Financial Corporation. 
2014 financial highlights:
 3$141.9 billion in total assets under 
management
 3$2.9 billion in revenue
 3$11.6 billion in stock market capitalization
 3$1.3 billion in long-term debtWho we are
3INVESTORS GROUP CORPORATE OFFICES
INVESTORS GROUP REGION OFFICES (110 TOTAL)
MACKENZIE INVESTMENTS HEAD OFFICE
INVESTMENT PLANNING COUNSEL HEAD OFFICEINTERNATIONAL 
INVESTMENT  
OFFICES IN  
SINGAPORE,  HONG KONG  
AND DUBLIN
IGM FINANCIAL AT A GLANCE
OVER
2 MILLION
CLIENT RELATIONSHIPS  
ACROSS CANADAOVER
35,000  
FINANCIAL ADVISORS  DISTRIBUTING OUR  
PRODUCTS AND SERVICESOVER
3,200  
EMPLOYEES ACROSS OUR  
OPERATING COMPANIESOPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIESInvestors Group, headquartered in Winnipeg, 
offers a full range of retail financial and invest -
ment planning options including investment management, securities, insurance, mortgages 
and other financial services. It provides advice 
and services through its exclusive network of financial advisors (called Investors Group “Consultants”) located in 110 regional offices across Canada. Investors Group funds are managed by I.G. Investment Management.Mackenzie Investments is a leading investment management firm providing investment advisory and related services to retail and institutional clients. Mackenzie Investments distributes its 
retail investment products through third party 
financial advisors and their firms across Canada. The company is headquartered in Toronto.Investment Planning Counsel is an integrated personal financial services company focused on providing Canadians with high-quality finan-cial products, services and advice through its 
network of independent financial advisors. In 
addition to investment management solutions, advisors have access to a suite of insurance, securities and mortgage products to serve client needs. The company is headquartered in Mississauga. 
NEARLY 1 MILLION  CLIENTS 
5,145 INVESTORS GROUP CONSULTANTS
1,987 EMPLOYEES
$73.5 BILLION IN ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT
AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2014ABOUT 250,000  CLIENTS
897 FINANCIAL ADVISORS
273 EMPLOYEES
$3.9 BILLION IN ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT
AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2014ABOUT 1 MILLION  CLIENTS
30,000+  ADVISORS DISTRIBUTING PRODUCTS
956 EMPLOYEES
$70.9 BILLION IN ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT1
AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2014
41 Total assets under management exclude $6.3 billion of assets sub-advised by Mackenzie on behalf of Investors Group and Investment Planning Counsel.Our operating companiesOPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIESSTAKEHOLDERS ENGAGEMENT TACTICS
CLIENTS 3 Regular client surveys
3 Client service call centres 
3 Advisor/Consultant surveys to capture feedback received  
from clients 
SHAREHOLDERS 3 Annual meeting and annual report
3 Quarterly reports, earnings releases and analyst calls 
3 Meetings and presentations
3 IGM Financial website
EMPLOYEES 3 Annual surveys
3 Employee forums and websites 
3 Volunteering opportunities3 Annual performance reviews 
FINANCIAL ADVISORS/
CONSULTANTS3 Annual surveys 
3 Client service teams and call centres
3 Annual conferences and training
3 Advisor roadshows and practice support
INDUSTRY PARTNERS 3 Memberships in industry associations
3 Meetings with industry associations, self-regulatory  
associations and government
3 Conferences and events
COMMUNITIES 3 Meetings with charities, non-governmental organizations and national organizations supporting charities and volunteers
3 Financial literacy publications and website
3 Social mediaHow we engage our stakeholders
To develop our first report last year, we asked our business leaders to reflect on stakeholder feedback received throughout the year, either directly or through external 
mechanisms. Most of our engagement takes place on a day-to-day basis through ongoing interactions with our clients, employees, shareholders and the financial advisors who distribute our products and services. We directly engage with stakeholders who have an impact on our business or who are impacted by us.
5A summary of employee survey feedback on one value that 
differentiates Investors Group from its competitorsOPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIESTOPIC OF ENGAGEMENT ENGAGED STAKEHOLDERS NATURE OF REQUEST IGM FINANCIAL’S RESPONSE
RESPONSIBLE  
INVESTMENTClients and shareholders Formalize IGM Financial’s 
commitment to integrate environmental, social 
and governance factors 
into the investment process3In 2014, Investors Group and Mackenzie Investments became signatories to  
the United Nations-supported Principles for Responsible Investment.  
Responsible investing policies were also formalized at Investors Group,  
Mackenzie Investments and Counsel Portfolio Funds to communicate the  
approach we take in including environmental, social and governance factors  in our investment processes. 
We believe that companies with good environmental and social practices and 
robust corporate governance demonstrate strong performance over the long-term.
DISCLOSURE OF  
ENVIRONMENTAL  
INFORMATIONCDP and ESG (environmental, 
social and governance) research firms (on behalf of shareholders 
and potential shareholders)Disclose information 
on IGM Financial’s greenhouse gas 
emissions, other 
environmental impacts, and management practices3Our second CDP Survey response was made public in 2014, responding to 
investors’ disclosure requests through the CDP.  
3IGM Financial was named to CDP’s Climate Disclosure Leadership Index in  
December 2014.
3We also disclosed environmental information in our inaugural corporate 
responsibility report aligned with the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.
RENEWABLE ENERGY CDP and ESG (environmental, social and governance) research firms (on behalf of shareholders 
and potential shareholders)Consider role of  
renewable energy within environmental strategy3Our primary strategy is to reduce energy use wherever possible. A significant portion  
of our electricity is provided from renewable hydro sources (41% in 2014). 
3In 2015, Investors Group and Mackenzie Investments will begin to purchase green 
natural gas for their operations, supporting the development of green energy in  Canada and taking further action on the environment.
EMPLOYEE WELLNESS Shareholders and employees Review policies and programs to promote employee wellness 3We support our employees’ mental wellness through respectful workplace policies, 
mental health information and training, and confidential employee assistance programs. 
3Investors Group developed a Wellness Works program in 2014 focused on 
employees’ physical, mental, financial and social well being. The program  
launched in January 2015.Topics of engagement in 2014
In 2014, we engaged with stakeholders and took action in a number of areas relevant to our corporate responsibility strategy. Some of these examples are 
listed below. As our strategy evolves, we are considering how to formally engage our stakeholders on corporate responsibility topics.
6OPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIES3 Ensure sound  
corporate  
governance
3 Ensure  
compliance,  
integrity and  ethical behaviour  
in all we do
3 Manage risk  
effectively
3 Protect client  
privacy and  
safeguard  
information 3 Contribute  
positively to  
our economy  
and society
3 Promote  
financial literacy  
to encourage  
financial security3 Help our clients achieve their  
financial goals through professional financial advice
3 Offer responsible products and  
services that meet  
our clients’ needs
3 Provide a rewarding client experience 3 Attract and retain 
talent through  
competitive  
compensation  
and benefits,  
and progressive  
workplace programs
3 Enable growth 
through training  
and development 
3 Promote a  
respectful,  
diverse and  
inclusive workplace3 Reduce our  
environmental  
footprint  
3 Engage our people to raise awareness and reduce our collective impact  
on the environment3 Provide support to our communities where we live  
and work 
3 Encourage and  
support our  
people in giving  
back to our  
communitiesOPERATIONAL 
INTEGRITYOUR 
ECONOMYOUR 
CLIENTSOUR 
PEOPLEOUR
ENVIRONMENTOUR 
COMMUNITIESOur approach to corporate responsibility 
Our strategy starts at the top, guided by our Corporate Responsibility Statement approved by the Board of Directors. We have a commit -
ment to operate our business with integrity and focus on our impacts across our economy, clients, people, environment and communities. 
Our approach also respects key external sustainability initiatives important to our stakeholders, including the Global Reporting Initiative 
G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, CDP Survey and United Nations-supported Principles for Responsible Investment. For more information, see Initiatives we support.  
Our six-pillar strategic approach to corporate responsibility and the goals we have set are depicted below. Our approach was informed 
by the process we undertook in 2014 to define Our report topics, considering what is important to IGM Financial and our stakeholders.  
7OPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIESOperational Integrity 
Operational integrity is the foundation  
of everything we doOPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIESEarning the trust and confidence  
of our stakeholders
We are committed to operating our business with integrity. We have established clear systems of control to ensure 
that sound corporate governance, risk management, compliance and ethical business conduct are embedded across  
the company. 
GOALS OBJECTIVES 2014 RESULTS
Ensure sound  
corporate governanceIntegrate our responsible management commitment into  the governance framework 3 We enhanced IGM’s Corporate Responsibility Statement to include responsible investment practices 
3 We formalized corporate responsibility committee mandates
Ensure compliance,  integrity and ethical  behaviour in all we doContinuously improve our compliance framework and promote a culture of high ethical standards 
3 We trained more than 3,000 employees and 6,000 Consultants and financial advisors on anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing policies and procedures as part of our biennial training program
3 We completed our annual Code of Conduct review with employees, resulting in 100% acknowledgement of the Code’s principles
Manage risk effectively Continuously improve our ERM framework and ensure prudent  and measured risk-taking3 We transitioned internal controls over financial reporting to the COSO 2013 Framework
3 We advanced business leader knowledge of environmental and social risk management
Protect client privacy  and safeguard informationEnsure appropriate controls are in place to identify, prevent and mitigate risks  3 We enhanced our cyber-security strategy to address new and emerging threats and strengthen our continuity plans to prepare for a broad range of outcomes
9OPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIES
100% OF STAFF  
ACKNOWLEDGE OUR CODE OF  
CONDUCT PRINCIPLES ANNUALLYGOVERNANCE 
Our executive Corporate Responsibility 
Committee met regularly in 2014 to advance our strategy and oversee the development of IGM Financial’s first corporate responsibility report.  
Support was provided by a steering committee 
of business leaders and an environmental committee.
Progress on implementing our corporate respon
-
sibility policy and strategy and plans for the 
coming year was reviewed with the Board of Directors in the fall of 2014. No critical concerns were reported to the Board for the reporting period. At that time the Board approved amend
-
ments to the Corporate Responsibility Statement  
to formalize our commitment to incorporate  
environmental, social and governance factors in our operating companies’ investment manage
-
ment processes. This commitment to responsible investment practices was further demonstrated by Investors Group and Mackenzie Investments becoming United Nations-supported Principles 
for Responsible Investment (PRI) signatories 
 
in 2014.
Further details of Board governance can  
be found in our Management Proxy Circular   
and in our Corporate Governance Practices 
Statement. ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT (ERM)  
We continue to promote our strong risk manage-ment culture and processes, which enable us to proactively identify and manage risks. Our ERM framework is coordinated across our operating 
companies to ensure prudent and measured 
risk-taking and includes well-defined governance responsibilities. Our ERM processes include the evaluation of environmental and social risks, and we continue to enhance our business leaders’ knowledge of these risks.
In 2014, we continued to strengthen our ERM 
framework. We broadened our review of our entity-level controls in line with the Internal Control – Integrated Framework (COSO 2013 Framework). We also implemented a Finan-cial Risk Management sub-committee of 
senior leaders with financial risk management  
expertise. This group supports our ERM 
processes and the executive Risk Management Committee in the evaluation and quantification of financial risks. 
We continue to monitor and enhance our defences 
and procedures to prevent, detect, respond to, and manage cyber-security threats. In 2014 we devel-
oped an enhanced strategy to address new and 
emerging threats and strengthen our continuity plans to prepare for a broad range of outcomes.  COMPLIANCE  
We continue to maintain and enhance our  
robust compliance programs. Key areas of com -
pliance include d istribution and investment  
management, privacy and information security, and anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing.
Our programs and controls are assessed for 
effectiveness on an ongoing basis by the busi-ness units and periodically by our internal audit function.  Regular reporting is provided to senior management and the IGM Financial Audit 
Committee. At the operating companies, boards 
and committees oversee investment manage-ment and distribution compliance of our funds.
Our Code of Conduct and related policies set 
out our core values of responsible manage-
ment. In 2014, as we do every second year, 
we trained employees, Consultants and finan-cial advisors on anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing policies and procedures.
In 2015, we plan to supplement our policy 
framework with an anti-corruption and anti-bribery policy.
10Operational integrity  OPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIESOur Economy
Creating long-lasting,  
positive impacts OPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIESCreating long-lasting, positive impacts
As one of Canada’s premier financial services companies, we bring positive impacts to the economy and society 
and are focused on creating a sustainable company – and a sustainable future – for generations to come.  
GOALS OBJECTIVES 2014 RESULTS
Contribute positively to 
the economy and societyCreate long-term value for  our shareholders
Improve financial well-being  
for our clients
Foster entrepreneurship for  
Consultants and financial  advisors
Support our employees,  
suppliers and communities  in our local markets3 We paid over $550 million in dividends to our shareholders 
3 Assets under management grew to $141.9 billion, driven by $8.8 billion in income and market returns
3 We paid over $990 million to advisors and third-party dealers, enabling them to grow successful businesses and drive employment in the local market
3 We employed over 3,200 people and paid $375 million in salaries and benefits 
3 We paid $387 million to local and national organizations for goods and services, helping to support the Canadian economy
3 We invested almost $10 million in local and national community organizations
3 See 2014 data table and 2014 IGM Financial annual report for more details
Promote financial  literacy to encourage financial securityIncrease financial skills  of Canadians through  collaboration with Consultants and community partners
3 Investors Group expanded its partnership with the Canadian Foundation for Economic Education (CFEE), launching 
Building Futures  to integrate economic and financial education into the school curriculum 
IN REVENUE GENERATED 
THROUGH OUR PRODUCTS 
AND SERVICES$2,927 MILLION
IN ASSETS UNDER  
MANAGEMENT FOR  
OUR CLIENTS$141.9 BILLION 
122014 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS – IGM FINANCIALOPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIES
IN ECONOMIC VALUE 
DISTRIBUTED$2,722 MILLIONThrough the daily work of Consultants and financial advisors who serve our clients and commu-
nities, and through our support for financial literacy programs and curricula, we are leaders in the ongoing effort to advance the financial security and financial literacy of Canadians. 
Now in the 16
th year of their partnership, the Canadian Foundation for Economic Education (CFEE) 
and Investors Group are always looking for fresh ways to create financial literacy among children and 
youth. In March 2014, Investors Group and CFEE built on their earlier work by partnering with the Manitoba government to launch 
Building Futures  – an initiative that integrates economic and finan-
cial education into the school curriculum of Manitoba students in Grades 4 to 10.
Building Futures in Manitoba introduces a series of detailed teaching units pre-tested with  
Manitoba teachers. It’s such a hit with teachers and students that Building Futures has now 
been developed for Ontario teachers, is in the works for Saskatchewan and Quebec, and is being discussed for use in the Atlantic provinces. Materials are also being developed for use in  
Aboriginal and First Nations communities, as well as in French.
Building Futures leverages the 2013 update of the popular Money and Youth: A Guide to Financial  
Literacy , an on-line learning tool and guidebook for high school students produced by CFEE with 
funding from Investors Group. Investors Group has contributed $2 million since 1995 to support 
and promote financial literacy programs for Canadian children and teens.Promoting financial literacy
COPIES OF MONEY AND YOUTH TEXTBOOK  
IN SCHOOLS ACROSS CANADA360,000+
13OPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIES
THE POWER OF SOCIAL MEDIA
In November, to promote Financial Literacy 
Month, Trevor Krahn, Manager, Community Affairs at Investors Group, joined financial literacy experts – a teacher, a school principal, 
CFEE President Gary Rabbior and Investors 
Group Executive Financial Consultant Richard Kilburn – for the company’s first-ever live Twitter chat. Social media has become an important part of helping Canadians improve their  finan-cial literacy, so the Twitter chat and a financial literacy video on YouTube are new ways to reach 
– and help – people.
Many topics were “discussed” during the chat, 
including the best way to start saving, financial challenges for youth and whether giving children an allowance teaches them about money. Our Clients
We are committed to helping  
Canadians achieve their  
financial aspirationsOPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIESWe are committed to helping Canadians achieve their financial goals and a secure future. Personal relationships, 
built on trust, are at the very heart of our business. We earn our clients’ trust through adherence to high standards, 
strong ethics, and continued excellence and innovation in our product and service offerings.
GOALS OBJECTIVES 2014 RESULTS
Help clients achieve their  
financial goals through  professional financial adviceProvide tools, products and  services to Consultants and financial advisors to enable  the delivery of valuable  financial advice3 Investors Group and Mackenzie Investments each launched new funds addressing clients’ growing 
demand for income-oriented products
3 The number of Investors Group Consultants grew to the highest level in the history of the company
3 Mackenzie introduced LIVE IT , a new framework to help advisors address clients’ key investment 
concerns
3 Mackenzie’s revamped website for financial advisors, launched in October, was ranked #1 among Canadian financial advisor websites by kasina, an asset manager research and consultant firm
2
Offer responsible products  
and services that meet our clients’ needsStrengthen the integration  of environmental, social and governance considerations  into our products and  services
3 Investors Group and Mackenzie Investments become signatories to the United Nations-supported 
Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI)
3 Responsible investing policies were formalized at Investors Group, Mackenzie Investments and  Counsel Portfolio Funds to communicate the approach we take in considering environmental,  
social and governance factors in our investment processes
Provide a rewarding  
client experienceStrive for high levels of  client and Consultant/financial advisor satisfaction with our product and service offerings
3 92% of Investors Group clients with 12+ months tenure were satisfied with the service they received
3 90% of Consultants were satisfied with their business relationship with Investors Group
3 Mackenzie received the second highest rating in the 2014 Morningstar Canada Stewardship Survey
3 Mackenzie began implementing its new product and service strategy, focused on the financial  
success of investors, through their  eyes 
3 79% of Investment Planning Counsel’s financial advisors rated the company’s communications, honesty and integrity as good to excellentPutting clients first 
152Optimizing Opportunities for Canadian Asset Manager Websites, kasina, 2015.OPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIESIn a world that is increasingly complex, we believe 
it is now more important than ever for Canadians to have a financial advisor to help them create an integrated financial plan. We continue to evolve 
our products, services, support and training to 
support advisors as they enhance the financial well-being of our clients. 
Results of various studies show that Canadians 
who receive advice are wealthier, more confident 
and better prepared for the financial implications 
of marriage, a new child, their children’s educa-tion, retirement, and other life events. 
A new study released by the Conference Board of 
Canada, 
Boosting Retirement Readiness and the 
Economy Through Financial Advice ,3  found that 
investors who work with a financial advisor have a higher savings rate, on average, than those who do not. For example, over a 15-year period, households working with an advisor could have 
almost twice the assets than a household without 
a financial advisor. The study highlights the value advisors add by encouraging more disciplined saving and investment behaviour. Value through professional advisors
16STARTING A MONEY CONVERSATION THAT MATTERS
In November 2014, Mackenzie Investments 
launched LIVE IT, a framework to help advisors 
have straightforward, engaging and construc-
tive conversations with clients about working toward a strong financial position in retirement.
The framework was built after extensive 
conversations and research with investors and 
advisors to find out what issues were on their 
minds. A poll conducted by Léger Marketing on behalf of Mackenzie Investments revealed six 
key concerns for investors: 
LONGEVITY – 72% are concerned they have 
not saved enough money for retirement
INCOME – 67% feel GIC rates are too low to 
generate the income they’ll need
VOLATILITY – 52% feel volatility has made 
their investment goals less attainable
ESTATE – 47% have estate as a part of their 
financial plan
INFLATION – 72% are worried about the long-
term impact of inflation 
TAXES – 90% underestimate the amount of 
tax they pay“Through LIVE IT, we want to help advisors 
shape conversations with their clients so 
that their key investment concerns – and 
their top aspirations – are addressed,” said Jeff Carney, President and Chief Executive 
Officer of Mackenzie Investments. “Retirement 
readiness is the single-most important focus for Canadians, both now and in the years ahead, 
and LIVE IT is the groundwork that can help 
drive their financial goals.”
Mackenzie is supporting LIVE IT conversations 
with a robust digital experience at talkliveit.com  
that includes videos, guidance from the 
Mackenzie tax and estate planning team, 
product ideas, video insights from Mackenzie’s 
portfolio managers and technical white papers on innovative investment strategies. 
The Mackenzie LIVE IT program provides 
content and resources for investors as well as  
for advisors. 
3 Pedro Antunes, Alicia Macdonald, and Matthew Stewart. Conference Board of Canada, 2014.OPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIESResponsible products and services
In 2014 we continued to expand our products and services that have positive social and environmental impacts.
17
PRINCIPLES FOR RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT
In 2014, Investors Group and Mackenzie 
Investments became signatories to the United Nations-supported Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), joining the collaborative effort 
of global investors representing US $45 trillion in 
assets under management in the goal to develop a more sustainable global financial system. The companies’ collective commitment represents the largest suite of mutual funds in Canada abiding by the PRI. 
The PRI is a set of six aspirational principles  
that offer a framework for integrating environ-
mental, social and governance (ESG) factors into the investment analysis and decision-making process for mainstream investment managers. 
Principle 1: We will incorporate ESG issues into  
investment analysis and decision-making processes.
Principle 2: We will be active owners and  
incorporate ESG issues into our ownership policies  
and practices.
Principle 3: We will seek appropriate disclosure 
on ESG issues by the entities in which we invest.Principle 4: We will promote acceptance and  
implementation of the Principles within the  
investment industry.
Principle 5: We will work together to enhance our  
effectiveness in implementing the Principles.Principle 6: We will each report on our activities 
and progress towards implementing the Principles.
We believe that companies with good environ-
mental and social practices and robust corporate governance demonstrate strong performance over the long term. In 2015, Investors Group and 
Mackenzie Investments will begin reporting on 
their progress in implementing the principles.
In 2014, Investors Group, Mackenzie Invest -
ments and Counsel Portfolio Services also 
formalized responsible investing policies to 
communicate the approach we take in including ESG factors in our investment processes.THE INVESTORS SUMMA SRI FUND
In addition to its PRI commitment, Investors  
Group continued to offer the Investors Summa SRI™ Fund – one of the largest socially respon-sible investment funds in Canada. Third-party 
global screening services assist with the 
evaluation of companies against specific envi-ronmental and/or socially responsible criteria. The fund does not invest in companies whose revenues are primarily derived from alcohol, tobacco, gambling, pornography or critical weapons systems.
The company also offered Consultants the  
opportunity to design a portfolio for clients  
incorporating the Investors Summa SRI Fund  
with other funds that have been screened for  
their adherence to environmental, social, and 
governance factors. OPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIESREGISTERED DISABILITY SAVINGS PLANS
Both Mackenzie Investments and Investors Group 
continued to be market leaders in offering Regis-tered Disability Savings Plans (RDSPs). Under this program, clients or family members with disabilities 
can access a tax-preferred savings vehicle and at 
the same time, take advantage of generous govern-ment grants and bonds. The RDSP program, in conjunction with our products and services, allows us to help Canadians in a meaningful way. Assets under management grew significantly in 2014 to over $200 million.
OTHER PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
Investors Group continued to offer mortgages for energy-efficient homes and renovations that are eligible for mortgage insurance premium savings, 
as well as no-fee chequing accounts for youth and 
seniors through Solutions Banking™.
All of IGM Financial’s operating companies also 
offer various electronic delivery options for products and services.CHARITABLE GIVING FUNDS
Mackenzie Investments and Investors Group are leaders in the provision of donor-advised giving programs designed to increase and sustain donors’ charitable giving. Clients who open a charitable giving account have the advantages of a private foundation without the up-front costs and adminis-trative responsibilities. Since the program was established in 2006, clients have contributed more 
than $175 million to be administered by the Foundation in support of their charities of choice. 
In 2014, dollars granted to charities through these funds increased by 49%.
18GRANTED TO CHARITIES  OVER OVER
GRANTED TO CHARITIES  
GRANTS MADE GRANTS MADE$7 MILLION $26 MILLION
2,845 13,247IN 2014 SINCE INCEPTIONResponsible products and servicesOPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIES19We are committed to our clients’ success, and 
we strive to respond to their needs in an ever-changing marketplace through ongoing product, service, and support enhancements. 
We solicit feedback from clients, where possible. 
At all three companies, a client’s first point of contact is through their financial advisor. It’s this one-on-one relationship with clients that works to ensure people receive the personalized finan-
cial advice, products and services that are right 
for them. Our operating companies strive for high levels of satisfaction with our clients, and with the Consultants and financial advisors who serve them.   INVESTORS GROUP
At Investors Group, nearly one million clients have direct contact with one of the over 5,000 Consultants who provide them with products and services and manage their long-term rela-
tionship. In 2014, the company’s client account 
median rate of return was approximately 7%. Individual clients experience different returns as a result of their net cash flows and fund  
holdings. The company views portfolio returns and the suitability of client investment portfolios  
as a way to measure success in delivering  
financial planning to clients.  Investors Group has surveyed its clients annually for more than 15 years. In 2014, the company enhanced its commitment to clients through 
a new Client Experience Survey that provides 
insight on key service questions relating to their relationship with their Consultant and the value of advice they receive. Client satisfaction levels continued to be very strong in 2014. 
Quarterly advisor satisfaction surveys are also 
conducted, surveying each of the more than 5,000 Consultants annually on their satisfaction with the business relationship they have with the company – the support and services that help them to serve our clients.  Providing a rewarding client experience
92%   OF INVESTORS GROUP   
CLIENTS WITH 12+ MONTHS  
TENURE ARE SATISFIED  
WITH SERVICE90%   OF CONSULTANTS  
RATE SATISFACTION WITH THEIR  
INVESTORS GROUP BUSINESS  
RELATIONSHIP GOOD TO EXCELLENTOPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIES20MACKENZIE INVESTMENTS
At Mackenzie Investments, third-party advisors 
distribute the company’s products and services to one million clients. 
The company’s goal is to deliver competitive 
and consistent risk-adjusted performance to clients. Morningstar, which evaluates mutual fund performance in Canada, rated 74% of Mackenzie’s funds three stars or better at December 2014, compared to a 65% rating for 
the industry.
Key to its evaluation of client interests is the 
annual Morningstar Canada Stewardship Survey, which assesses how well fund compa-nies align their interests with unitholders. Morningstar assigns a letter grade from A (best) to F (worst) by evaluating corporate culture, manager incentives, fees and regulatory issues. 
Of the 19 companies rated in 2014, two firms 
received an A grade. Mackenzie was one of only two independent investment management firms to receive a B, the second highest grade for overall stewardship. Mackenzie also gauges advisor satisfaction levels and uses this information to better understand the client relationships that  
advisors manage on the company’s behalf. A  
key research tool to assess advisor satisfaction  
is the annual Environics Advisor Perception Study, the most comprehensive tracking study of Canada’s mutual fund and insurance compa-nies. It is a benchmark that provides vital information on how the company is perceived 
by the advisors who distribute their products. 
In 2014, Mackenzie was noted by advisors as a leader for the breadth of its product offerings, quality of client services team, training and education, and effective marketing materials.
INVESTMENT PLANNING COUNSEL
At Investment Planning Counsel, clients have direct contact with an advisor affiliated with the company.  This past year, the company launched a revised advisor service index to provide insight 
and knowledge on what’s important to their 
advisors, and to measure their satisfaction regarding the support and services they receive from the company. Advisor satisfaction ratings exceeded the company target for 2014.  
79%   OF ADVISORS AGREE  
INVESTMENT PLANNING  
COUNSEL COMMUNICATES IN  
A PROFESSIONAL MANNER  
WITH A HIGH DEGREE OF  
HONESTY AND INTEGRITYOPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIES
Providing a rewarding client experience
OF MACKENZIE MUTUAL FUND ASSETS RATED  
3 STARS OR BETTER BY MORNINGSTAR IN 2014 74%  +Our People
Helping our people  
do great workOPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIESWe count on our people to do great things for our clients, our shareholders and our organization. To support their 
efforts we ensure our workplaces recognize smart, talented and motivated people who do their best – individually 
and together.
GOALS OBJECTIVES 2014 RESULTS
Attract and retain talent  
through competitive  compensation, benefits  and progressive  workplace programsStrengthen our recruitment  strategies to attract top talent and increase leadership capacity
3 We expanded university graduate hiring programs to strengthen our  professional talent pipeline 
3 We attracted 329 new employees 
Promote a healthy, productive and engaged workforce 3 We engaged employees on vision, strategy and business updates through regular forums and  communications
3 80% of employees participated in 2014 engagement surveys
3 We conducted culture assessments to inform our review of Investors Group and Mackenzie visions  and values
3 Mackenzie fostered employee innovation and collaboration through an online idea tool and  Innovation Summit
Enable growth through  training and development Grow our people through  training, performance  management and experience- 
based development3 We expanded employee development and leadership training programs
3 91% of employees received performance and career development reviews 
3 26% of employees had secondments, lateral moves or promotions that grew their job experience
Promoting a respectful,  
diverse and inclusive workplaceEstablish diversity initiatives to strengthen our ability to attract, retain, and develop our people 3 We continued to promote a culture of mutual respect – 100% of employees reviewed our respectful  workplace policies
3 Mackenzie employees have supported 126 people through the Toronto Region Immigrant  Employment Council (TRIEC) Mentoring Partnership since 2008 Helping our people do great work
22OPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIES
OF EMPLOYEES  
PARTICIPATED IN 2014  
ENGAGEMENT SURVEYS80%  ATTRACTING AND RETAINING TALENT 
Attracting top talent and strengthening leader -
ship capacity is key to delivering on our strategic 
plans. In 2014, we hired 329 people, bringing us to over 3,200 employees. Our voluntary 
turnover was higher this past year at 7.1% but 
remains lower than Canadian benchmarks.  We plan to review and enhance our operating company recruitment practices in 2015.
In 2014 we focused on enhancing our univer -
sity graduate recruitment programs. Mackenzie 
introduced its Leading Edge Program in part -
nership with Queen’s University. Investors Group expanded its Management Development Program with the University of Manitoba to include an investment management internship program.
Investors Group developed its new wellness 
strategy, focused on the physical, mental, finan-
cial and social wellness of employees.  
Mackenzie introduced LAUNCH PAD – an online  
idea program – and hosted an innovation 
summit to collaborate and engage employees on 
strategic opportunities.TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT
Our goal is to grow our employees through 
training, feedback and coaching, and job expe-rience. We also support the development of Consultants and financial advisors who 
distribute our products and services. We contin-
ually enhance our programs to support the development of our people.
In 2014, Investors Group trained over 1,000 
employees through traditional classroom 
sessions and a record-breaking 2,410 employees  
through its online learning centre.
Mackenzie Investments offered monthly Know 
Your Company sessions to broaden employees’ company knowledge and increase collaboration. Ninety-eight per cent of attendees reported they were very likely to attend future sessions.
Investment Planning Counsel enhanced its lead-
ership training with its Extraordinary Leader Program for executive and senior leaders and a Manager Training Program for new leaders.
Our leaders continued to provide feedback and 
coaching through annual performance reviews. In addition, 26% of employees moved to new internal roles in 2014 as we continued to place a priority on developing employees through secondments, lateral moves and promotions.DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
Having a range of perspectives helps us make better decisions and better serve our clients.  Annually we require all employees to review our respectful workplace policies to promote a 
culture of mutual respect. 
Employee gender diversity levels remained 
relatively steady. Female representation on the board declined to 6.3% (1 of 16 directors).
In February 2015 we formalized our board 
and senior management diversity policy.
4 We 
continue to enhance awareness of the impor -
tance of diversity in the workplace.
We also consider diversity among Investors 
Group Consultants. In 2014, 40% of new Consultant appointments were women – a 7% increase over 2013. As a result, women now make up 29% of the overall Consultant network. 
Mackenzie Investments continued its support 
for the Toronto Region Immigrant Employ-ment Council (TRIEC) Mentoring Partnership, and Investors Group supported the Aboriginal  
Business Education Partners (ABEP) scholarship program at the University of Manitoba.  
2340%   OF OUR TOTAL MANAGERS  
AND EXECUTIVES ARE WOMEN
216   IDEAS POSTED ON  
  LAUNCH PADOPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIES
4See page 42 of the IGM Financial Management Proxy Circular for an overview of the policy.Our Environment
Responsibly managing our  
environmental impacts OPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIESResponsibly managing  
our environmental impacts
We take seriously our shared responsibility to protect the environment from harm. We believe that managing our 
impacts contributes to running an efficient business for our shareholders, empowers our people to participate in 
environmental initiatives, and addresses client and community expectations. 
GOALS OBJECTIVES 2014 RESULTS
Reduce our  
environmental footprint3 Reduce greenhouse gas emissions through energy efficiency, renewable energy procurement, and possible carbon offsets 
3 Reduce paper use and promote  the use of sustainable paper 
3 Promote waste management and recycling3 We reduced our absolute greenhouse gas emissions by 117 tonnes (0.9% reduction) since 2013
3 We completed the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Survey for the second year and received one  of the top scores for Canadian companies, 96B
3 IGM Financial was named to CDP’s Canadian Climate Disclosure Leadership Index for the quality  of our climate change reporting
3 We increased the percentage of green certified buildings we occupy for our corporate premises  from 49% to 90%
3 We eliminated over 18 tonnes of paper in 2013 and 2014 by replacing Consultant and financial  advisor client confirmations with electronic versions
3 We recycled 477 tonnes of paper at Investors Group and Mackenzie Financial in 2014
Engage our people  to raise awareness  and reduce our  collective impact  
on the environmentIncrease communication to employees, 
provide opportunities to participate and solicit their input on ways to decrease  our impact on the environment
3 Investors Group employees took home GOLD in the 2014 Winnipeg Commuter Challenge, saving  over two tonnes of CO2-equivalent greenhouse gases and 1,344 litres of fuel in one work week
3 Investors Group and Mackenzie Investments employees saved an estimated 683 tonnes of  greenhouse gas emissions in 2014 by using public transit to commute to work
25OPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIES
IGM FINANCIAL WAS  
NAMED A CLIMATE  
DISCLOSURE LEADER  
IN 2014At IGM Financial we impact the environment 
directly through our business operations and indirectly through our procurement practices and our product and service offerings. We 
believe that incorporating environmental consid-
erations into our business decisions makes our business stronger and contributes to overall environmental sustainability.  
We are currently focused on managing the 
direct impacts from our operations – primarily 
energy use – which is the largest driver of our greenhouse gas emissions.  We are also looking for ways to improve on the impact of business travel, waste management and paper use.   
ENERGY CONSUMPTION
Consumption of electricity and natural gas at our owned and leased properties is the primary driver of energy use. 
Over recent years, a number of environmental 
upgrades were completed at the Investors Group 
head office, our only owned office building. In 2014 the building was awarded the BOMA BESt certification for its environmental performance and management practices. The remainder of our corporate offices are leased, and the vast majority of these buildings also have green certifications.
Investors Group also leases 110 region office 
facilities across Canada for its 5,145 Consul-tants. In 2014, our operating companies continued to upgrade owned and leased prop -
erties, where possible, and optimize office 
occupancy to achieve efficiencies. Investors 
Group implemented a new footprint for region offices in 2014, including the use of recycled materials, energy-efficient lighting and other environmentally friendly materials. As new offices are built and others are refurbished, these new standards will be incorporated.
We also fully transitioned Mackenzie Invest -
ments data processing from Toronto to our new, 
energy-efficient, low-carbon data processing centre in Winnipeg. 
Our electricity consumption decreased by 2.5% 
in 2014 across our operating companies. This 
was offset by a 7.2% increase in natural gas 
consumption due to the unusually cold winter, resulting in a 0.7% increase in overall energy consumption across our Canadian operations.TRAVEL
As a global financial services company, busi-ness travel is a necessary part of our operations.  
We encourage our employees to consider their 
travel requirements carefully, and we have extended the use of video-conferencing facil-ities to reduce the environmental impact of travel. We also have a preferred hotel program that partners only with sustainably responsible hotels. 
In 2014, our commercial air travel grew by 
14.6% and our ground transport grew by 5.5%, 
reflecting travel required to effectively train and manage Investors Group’s growing Consultant network. The number of Consultants reached an all-time high of 5,145 at the end of 2014.  Reducing our environmental footprint  
2690% 
OF OUR OPERATING COMPANIES’  
CORPORATE OFFICE SPACE IS  
IN GREEN-CERTIFIED BUILDINGS OPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIESWASTE AND RECYCLING
Reducing waste and increasing recycling programs is a visible indication of our operating companies’ 
commitment to the environment. 
We have paper recycling programs at all of our offices. We offer recycling programs in the majority 
of our offices for other typical materials, but it is challenging to offer consistent recycling programs at our many locations across Canada due to the variety of local programs and landlord approaches. In 2014, Investors Group began reviewing available options to increase recycling across its  
region offices.  
We also continued to donate used office and computer equipment to charities, and where this was 
not possible, we partnered with our supplier to achieve landfill avoidance for electronic equipment 
we no longer use. 
REDUCING OUR PAPER USE
We are committed to reducing paper use and we continued to implement processes to measure our consumption to establish a baseline for future improvements. We have also continued to expand paper reduction programs that deliver information in electronic formats.
For example, this past year, Mackenzie Investments and Investment Planning Counsel implemented 
an electronic confirmation process with financial advisors, similar to Investors Group’s, that replaces physical copies of client confirmations with electronic copies.  Every year, our three operating compa-nies are expected to save about 3.9 million sheets of paper from this initiative, or 18 tonnes of paper a year. 
We expanded our use of electronic payments to replace cheques for payments to employees and 
suppliers. We also continued to move to the electronic delivery of reports, including the IGM Financial Corporate Responsibility Report, and the Investors Group Corporate Citizenship report and Employees in Action report. 
27100% 
LANDFILL-AVOIDANCE OF 
COMPUTER EQUIPMENT THROUGH 
REDEPLOYMENT, DONATION  
AND RECYCLING
HEIGHT OF INVESTORS GROUP 
HEAD OFFICE83 metresHEIGHT OF  
PAPER SAVED  
ANNUALLY400 metresANNUAL IMPACT OF MOVING TO ELECTRONIC  
CONFIRMATIONS FOR CONSULTANTS AND ADVISORSOPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIES28GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
In 2014, we responded for the second time to the CDP Survey, reporting on our greenhouse gas emissions and climate change management. We were one 
of the top scoring companies in the Canada 200 and were named to CDP’s Canadian Climate Disclosure Leadership Index for the quality of our climate change reporting.
In 2014, our absolute greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and 2) declined by 0.9% over 2013. Natural gas emissions increased due to the unusually cold 
Canadian winter, but this was offset by declines in other areas. 
We continue to explore ways to reduce the impacts of climate change from our business. In 2015, we will expand our use of renewable energy and begin 
purchasing green natural gas through a renewable energy partnership with Bullfrog Power. 
2014 – 13,169 TONNES CO 2 EQUIVALENT
2013 – 13,286 TONNES CO 2 EQUIVALENT
2012 – 12,863 TONNES CO 2 EQUIVALENT    GHG EMISSIONS BY SOURCE AND SCOPE    (tonnes of CO2 equivalent)
8,661
4,373
1358,568
4,583
135
TRAVEL – AIR  
AND GROUND WASTE10,00012,000
8,000
6,000
4,000
2,000
-1,716242,275
27
SCOP E 1 SCOP E 2 SCOP E 311,42910,984
8,708
1,6324,020
135 24
ELECTRICIT Y AND  
NATURAL GAS 11,207OPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIESInvestors Group employees took home GOLD in the 2014 
Winnipeg Commuter Challenge by using eco-friendly 
routes to work (bus, biking, walking, car pooling, working 
from home). Employees saved:
Mackenzie Investments employee coffee cup pyramidKey to our success is promoting employee 
awareness and knowledge of environmental sustainability issues, and engaging our employees in managing our collective impacts. 
In 2014, Investors Group employees continued 
their long-standing participation in the Commuter Challenge, a Canada-wide event that encourages daily commuters to leave their car at home and use alternative forms of transportation to get to 
work or school. 
We continued to financially support our 
employees in their choice to use greener public commuting options. We estimate that the use of public transit by our employees in 2014 saved approximately 677 tonnes of CO
2e greenhouse 
gas emissions compared to employees driving their vehicles to work each day.   
In October, Investors Group and Mackenzie 
Investments participated in the national Waste Reduction Week. At Investors Group, employees were reminded of the variety of options avail-able to them for reducing waste – to fight against climate change, reduce pollution and preserve our natural resources. At Mackenzie, employees 
built a coffee cup pyramid from 544 paper coffee cups collected over two weeks from staff  
to educate their peers on the positive impact of reducing paper cup use.
Supporting environmental programs in the 
communities where our people live and work is 
an important part of our environmental stew-
ardship responsibility.  In 2014, we supported the Prairie Wildlife Rehabilitation Centre, Green Action Centre, Green Kids and Fort Whyte Alive. 
In 2015, we plan to formalize our commitment 
to the environment through an Environmental 
Policy. We also plan to engage our employees directly in identifying, prioritizing and imple-menting environmental initiatives that are important to them and our business.  Engaging our people to make a difference 
2.2 TONNES OF CO2- 
EQUIVALENT GHG GASES1,334 LITRES OF FUEL
29OPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIES
Our Communities
We dedicate funding and our most  
powerful and valuable resource –  
our people – to improving the quality 
of life where we live and workOPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIESWhile each of our operating companies has its own approach to philanthropy and volunteerism, we are strategically  
aligned in our commitment to contribute to the communities where we live and work.  
GOALS OBJECTIVES 2014 RESULTS
Provide support to our  
communities where  our people live and workProvide a broad base of  financial support to local  and national organizations that reflect our operating companies’ unique giving priorities3 Investors Group donated $7.2 million to 1,500+ charities and community organizations in 2014
3 Investors Group and affiliated companies Power Corporation of Canada, Great-West Life, Canada Life and London Life committed an additional $1 million to Canadian Museum for Human Rights, bringing the companies’ combined total contribution to $3 million
3 Mackenzie Investments donated $2.5 million to 125 community organizations in 2014 
3 Mackenzie Investments launched long-term sponsorships of Snow Sports Canada and  Alpine Ontario
3 Investors Group and Mackenzie Investments continued their commitment to be Caring  Companies as designated by Imagine Canada
Encourage and support our people in giving back to our communitiesProvide opportunities and support to our people to  volunteer during work and personal time   
3 365 employees volunteered through the Investors Group Employees in Action program in 2014
3 200 employees used their paid volunteer day at Mackenzie Investments Investing in our communities
INVESTORS GROUP AND MACKENZIE 
INVESTMENTS ARE IMAGINE CANADA 
CARING COMPANIES
31OPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIESINVESTORS GROUP
At Investors Group the focus is on national  
partnerships supporting financial literacy, 
amateur sport and civic engagement, and on local support for a broad range of organizations. 
Investors Group also provides leadership to help 
grow the philanthropic capabilities of Canadian charities.
The Investors Group Employees in Action 
committees engage employees to raise money 
and collect material donations for local causes, 
reflecting the company’s people who care culture. In 2014, 94% of employees donated to charity.  Employees and retirees donated over $340,000 to the company’s annual head office United Way campaign. 
In 2014, Investors Group donated $7.2 million 
to over 1,500 community organizations.MACKENZIE INVESTMENTS
In 2014, Mackenzie expanded its community giving beyond assisting grassroots charities and supporting philanthropic leadership in Canada.
In September, Mackenzie Investments began 
fueling the passion of winter athletes across Canada with a four-year sponsorship of Snow Sports Canada, touching seven premier national snow sport organizations. Mackenzie is also building on its long history of supporting 
grassroots alpine skiing through a five-year part -
nership with Alpine Ontario.
In 2014, Mackenzie donated $2.5 million to 
over 125 community organizations. The Mackenzie Investments Charitable  
Foundation is employee-driven and assists charities benefiting underprivileged, challenged 
and sick children; and youth and young adults. 
The foundation is funded by donations from employees and clients. Mackenzie matches all employee donations dollar for dollar. In 2014, the company and employees each donated $225,000 to the foundation.
A committee of employee volunteers reviewed 
more than 180 requests for support this past year, resulting in the foundation grants of $825,000 to 33 charities. Since the foundation was established in 1999, it has provided $8.2 million in grants to the community.
INVESTMENT PLANNING COUNSEL
The Investment Planning Counsel Spirit Committee coordinates fundraising activities and personifies the company’s culture of “giving back to society.” In 2014, 90% of employees 
gave to charity. Through the committee’s  
fundraising efforts, Investment Planning Counsel 
supported organizations such as The Lighthouse bereavement support, and palliative care and cancer research groups.Community giving 
Social services
Health 
Amateur sport Arts & cultureCivic Education, youth &  
financial literacy Philanthropy leadership
76%6%
13%
5%
22%
28% 17%17%
10%7%
32Health
Arts & culture,  
sports, civic initiatives Children, youth  
& education OPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIESOur operating companies encourage and 
empower more than 3,200 employees and 6,000 Investors Group Consultants and Invest -
ment Planning Counsel financial advisors across 
Canada to volunteer.  
INVESTORS GROUP
Investors Group has a vibrant culture of people 
who care with encouragement of employee and Consultant volunteerism and volunteer recog-nition. The company’s Employees in Action 
(EIA) committees helped raise awareness of 
community needs and created volunteer oppor -
tunities through their community outreach, project funding, and fundraising initiatives; United Way campaign; and other team-building activities. 
MACKENZIE INVESTMENTS
Mackenzie Investments’ support and encourage-ment of employee volunteers is also extensive.  In addition to raising and distributing financial support for charitable organizations, a key role of the Mackenzie Investments Charitable Foun-dation is to engage employees in volunteerism. The employee-driven foundation promotes and 
educates employees about volunteer opportu -
nities. In 2014, 100 employees volunteered for 
the foundation.
Mackenzie Investments also provides structured 
support for employee volunteers. 
INVESTMENT PLANNING COUNSEL
Investment Planning Counsel, though much smaller in size, has a strong volunteer spirit. Employees are encouraged by the Spirit Committee to volunteer, and they receive one 
paid day a year to volunteer in the community. Community service 
3367%  OF EMPLOYEES VOLUNTEER  
IN THEIR COMMUNITIES200+   EMPLOYEES USED THEIR  
VOLUNTEER DAY IN 2014
66%   OF EMPLOYEES VOLUNTEER  
IN THEIR COMMUNITYOPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIES
WORKING TOWARD A WORLD  
WITHOUT HUNGER
In 2013, Consultants attending Investors 
Group’s President’s Circle conference in Laus-anne, Switzerland were universally moved by a Stop Hunger Now event that saw them prepare 
75,000 food packages destined for those in 
need in Moldova. Stop Hunger Now is an inter -
national relief organization that coordinates the distribution of food and aid to crisis areas. 
As part of Hunger Awareness Week in May 
2014, 150 Winnipeg employees and Consul-
tants put together 65,000 food packages in a record-setting period of time. 
The momentum continued at the Apex Summit 
in Quebec City in September, where about 250 employees and Consultants gathered to create 
an additional 75,000 packages. 
In total, Investors Group employees and 
Consultants have prepared more than 215,000 food packages for Stop Hunger Now, and there are plans to expand participation yet again in 2015.   About  
this report  
REPORT ON PROGRESS
This is our second annual IGM Financial Inc. 
Corporate Responsibility Report, reporting on the progress we have made in the 2014 calendar year. This report should be read in 
conjunction with the 2013 report to provide a 
complete picture of how we manage and track performance.
Our report has been guided by the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability 
Reporting Guidelines, including the Financial 
Services Supplement, and is aligned with most of the GRI G4 core requirements, as demon-strated in the GRI Content Index. 
REPORT SCOPE
We describe the corporate responsibility strategy and performance of IGM Financial – a holding company whose activities are carried out prin-cipally through Investors Group Inc., Mackenzie 
Financial Corporation and Investment Planning 
Counsel Inc. We have aggregated quantitative data from our operating companies as presented in our data tables. Throughout the report we 
provide performance highlights reflecting the 
programs and achievements of IGM Financial and our operating companies. 
Where appropriate, we reference other supple-
mentary information that should be considered 
in assessing our performance, including our 
submission to the Carbon Disclosure Project.  
EXTERNAL ASSURANCE
The information and data in this report were collected and reviewed by subject matter experts within our business operations. While we do conduct internal checks on the accuracy and 
completeness of the data we report, we also 
recognize inherent data uncertainty.
Our Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Statement for the 
year ended December 31, 2014, was exter -
nally assured by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
(PwC), an assurance and advisory firm. This 
external assurance was conducted to a limited level of assurance in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engage-ments 3410, Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements (‘ISAE 3410’). The results of this assurance process were reviewed with the 
Corporate Responsibility Committee. (See the opinion statement). At the time the limited assur -
ance engagement was undertaken, PwC did 
not provide IGM Financial Inc. or its operating 
companies with financial audit services.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Certain statements in this report, other than 
statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements based on certain assumptions and reflect IGM Financial’s current expectations. By 
its nature, this information is subject to inherent 
risks, uncertainties and external factors that may be general or specific and which give rise to the possibility that expectations, forecasts, predictions, projections or conclusions will not prove to be accurate, that assumptions which management considers to be reasonable at 
this time may not be correct and that objec-
tives, strategic goals and priorities will not be achieved. Other than as specifically required by law, the Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statements are made, or to reflect 
the occurrence of unanticipated events, whether 
as a result of new information, future events or results, or otherwise.  
34OPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIES35The following data tables apply to IGM Financial and its operating companies. 
OPERATIONAL INTEGRITY
NON-COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS Footnotes Measurement 2014 2013 GRI Indicator
Monetary value of significant fines and total number  
of non-monetary sanctionsa,b Dollars, Total NumberIGM Financial and its operating companies did not have any significant fines or non- monetary sanctions from regulators or 
self-regulatory organizations. IGM Financial and its operating companies 
did not have any significant fines or non- monetary sanctions from regulators or 
self-regulatory organizations. G4-SO8
Monetary value of significant fines and total number  
of non-monetary sanctionsa,b Dollars, Total NumberIn 2014, of the 6,000 advisors with the  operating companies, two advisors had  significant fines and were restricted from  dealing with the public. Neither of the  Advisors remain with the operating  companies.In 2013, of the 5,600 advisors with the operating companies, one advisor had a  significant fine and was restricted from  dealing with the public.  Five others received some form of sanction from a regulatory  agency restricting their ability to continue dealing with the public.  None of the advisors remain with the operating companies.G4-SO8
PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING Footnotes Measurement 2014 2013 GRI Indicator
Number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomesc Total number IGM Financial and its operating companies did not have any significant incidents of non-compliance in 2014. IGM Financial and its operating companies did not have any significant incidents of non-compliance in 2013. G4-PR4
MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS Footnotes Measurement 2014 2013 GRI Indicator
Incidents of non-compliance with regulations  and voluntary codes concerning marketing  communications, including advertising, promotion  and sponsorship by type of outcomesd,e Total number IGM Financial and its operating companies did not have any significant incidents of non-compliance. IGM Financial and its operating companies did not have any significant incidents of non-compliance. G4-PR7
CUSTOMER PRIVACY Footnotes Measurement 2014 2013 GRI Indicator
Substantiated complaints regarding breaches of  customer privacy and losses of customer dataTotal number IGM Financial and its operating companies did not have any complaints substantiated by the Office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada or provincial privacy commissioners in 2014. IGM Financial and its operating companies did not have any complaints substantiated by the Office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada or provincial privacy commissioners in 2013. G4-PR8
PRODUCT AND SERVICE COMPLIANCE Footnotes Measurement 2014 2013 GRI Indicator
Significant fines for non-compliance with laws and  regulations concerning the provision and use of  products and servicesa Dollars IGM Financial and its operating companies did not have any significant fines from regula-tors or self-regulatory organizations in 2014. IGM Financial and its operating companies did not have any significant fines from regula-tors or self-regulatory organizations in 2013. G4-PR9
Footnotes:     
(a)  Significant fines are defined as any fines of $100,000 or more.     
(b)  Non-monetary sanctions are defined as significant suspensions or cancellations of registrations or material conditions or restrictions on registration pertaining to IGM Financial and its operating companies, and Investors Group and Investment Planning Counsel advisors, imposed as a result of a hearing or formal settlement agreement with regulators or self-regulatory organizations.         
(c)  Non-compliance issues are defined as material misstatements in core documents that would require IGM Financial or its operating companies to amend documents, re-file with the regulators and remedy with clients.   
(d)  Marketing communications are defined as corporate marketing materials and advertising, including sponsorships that are covered by the Mutual Fund Sales Practices Rule.  Communications prepared by advisors with the operating companies are included.
(
e)  Significant incidents are defined as those with a material impact on our clients or an operating company. Immaterial/non-significant issues are those where no action was taken by the regulator or there was no recourse for the client (monetary compensation, redemption offered, etc.)  
    Data tablesOPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIES36ECONOMY AND COMMUNITY
ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION Footnotes Measurement 2014 2013 2012 GRI Indicator
Direct economic value generated (revenue) f $ million 2927.3  2,690.0  2,577.0 G4-EC1
Economic value distributed
   Commissions to advisors & third party dealers $ million  992.7  886.1  858.2 G4-EC1
   Employee wages & benefits $ million  375.4  347.1  320.0 G4-EC1
   Operating costs g $ million  492.3  374.9  339.7 G4-EC1
   Community giving h $ million  9.8  8.3  8.8 G4-EC1
   Common and perpetual preferred share dividends $ million  556.9  550.8  555.3 G4-EC1
   Interest expense $ million  92.2  92.2  92.2 G4-EC1
   Income taxes i $ million  202.9  210.6  190.5 G4-EC1
Economic value retained $ million  205.1  220.0  212.3 G4-EC1
TAXES 
 Income taxes by jurisdiction 
    Federal Government j $ million  132.4  150.7  138.0 G4-EC1
    British Columbia $ million  0.8  1.9  0.8 G4-EC1
    Alberta $ million  9.0  10.1  9.6 G4-EC1
    Saskatchewan $ million  0.3  0.7  0.5 G4-EC1
    Manitoba $ million  5.8  9.2  10.6 G4-EC1
    Ontario $ million  26.1  32.0  28.4 G4-EC1
    Quebec $ million  2.0  4.2  3.2 G4-EC1
    New Brunswick $ million  0.1  0.2  0.2 G4-EC1
    Nova Scotia $ million  0.1  0.4  0.3 G4-EC1
    PEI $ million  -    0.1  0.1 G4-EC1
    Newfoundland $ million  0.1  0.2  0.2 G4-EC1
Total Canadian income taxes $ million  176.7  209.7  191.9 G4-EC1
Total international income taxes $ million  2.5  2.4  1.9 G4-EC1
Total current income taxes $ million 179.2 212.1 193.8 G4-EC1
   Total deferred income taxes $ million 23.7 (1.5) (3.3) G4-EC1
Total income taxes $ million 202.9 210.6 190.5 G4-EC1
Total other taxes - capital, commodity, payroll, property, business and other $ million 20.8 17.9 17.8 G4-EC1
Footnotes:     
(f)  Revenue includes earnings from the Company’s common share investment in Great-West Lifeco as well as other investment income. The Company uses the equity method to account for its investment in Great-West Lifeco and therefore records its proportionate share  
of Great-West Lifeco’s earnings in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. For further details, including dividends received in the reporting period, see Note 8 to the 2014 Consolidated Financial Statements.     
(g)  Includes client distributions and other costs, occupancy costs, amortization of capital and intangible assets and other operating costs, but excludes community investment amounts of $9.8 in 2014 ($8.3 in 2013 and $8.8 in 2012).  See Note 3 to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements for details.       
(h) Community giving amounts are included in Non-commission Expense in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings.      
(i)  Income tax expense includes deferred taxes of $23.7 in 2014 (($1.5) in 2013 and ($3.3) in 2012). See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for detail.      
(j)  The allocation of income tax between federal and provincial jurisdictions for 2012 and 2013 has been restated.       OPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIES37CLIENTS
ACTIVE OWNERSHIP Footnotes Measurement 2014 2013 2012 GRI Indicator
Assets subject to positive and negative screensPercentage of total assets subject to positive environmental or social screens Percent  -    -  - G4-FS11
Percentage of total assets subject to negative environmental or social screens Percent 0.4 0.5 0.6 G4-FS11
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO Footnotes Measurement 2013 2012 GRI Indicator
PORTFOLIO BY BUSINESS LINESMutual funds – assets under management   Investors Group $ billions 73.5  68.3  60.6 G4-FS6
   Mackenzie Investments $ billions 48.8  46.0  40.4 G4-FS6
   Investment Planning Counsel $ billions 3.9  3.4  3.0 G4-FS6
Separately managed accounts – assets under management   Mackenzie Investments $ billions 22.1  19.3  21.1 G4-FS6
Total assets under management k $ billions 141.9  131.8  120.7 G4-FS6
Mortgages serviced by Investors Group $ billions 9.9  8.5  7.3 G4-FS6
New annualized insurance premiums – Investors Group $ millions 64.6  73.3  70.7 G4-FS6
Mutual funds – assets under management by operating company   Investors Group Percent 58 58 58 G4-FS6
   Mackenzie Investments Percent 39 39 39 G4-FS6
   Investment Planning Counsel Percent 3 3 3G4-FS6
Separately managed accounts – assets under management by operating company   Mackenzie Investments Percent 100 100 100 G4-FS6
MONETARY VALUE OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES DESIGNED TO DELIVER A SPECIFIC SOCIAL BENEFITSocially Responsible Investing – assets under management $ millions  635.0  678.3  762.2 G4-FS7
Charitable Giving Funds – assets under management $ millions 162.2  127.7  115.5 G4-FS7
Registered Disability Savings Plans – assets under management $ millions 200.2 98.0 32.2 G4-FS7
Footnotes:     
(k) Total assets under management excluded $6.3 billion of assets sub-advised by Mackenzie on behalf of Investors Group and Investment Planning Counsel at December 31, 2014 ($5.2 billion at December 31, 2013 and $4.3 billion at December 31, 2012).  
    OPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIES38PEOPLE
EMPLOYEE DATA Footnotes Measurement 2014 2013 2012 GRI Indicator
EMPLOYEES BY REGION       British Columbia Total number 141  153  158 G4-10
      Alberta Total number 89  85  80 G4-10
      Saskatchewan Total number 32  34  42 G4-10
      Manitoba Total number 1,211  1,152  1,153 G4-10
      Ontario Total number 1,349  1,338  1,341 G4-10
      Quebec Total number 309  301  286 G4-10
      Atlantic Canada Total number 51  47  52 G4-10
Canada – total Total number 3,182  3,110  3,112 G4-10
Ireland Total number 10  13  13 G4-10
Hong Kong Total number 11  10  11 G4-10
Singapore Total number 11  4  5 G4-10
U.S. Total number 2  2  - G4-10
Total employees l Total number 3,216  3,139  3,141 G4-9,10
EMPLOYEES BY GENDER AND TYPEFemale Total number 1,886  1,852  1,882 G4-10
Male Total number 1,330  1,287  1,259 G4-10
Permanent Total number 3,023  2,980  2,968 G4-10
      Female Total number 1,784  1,755  1,778 G4-10
      Male Total number 1,239  1,225  1,190 G4-10
Temporary Total number 193  159  173 G4-10
      Female Total number 102  97  104 G4-10
      Male Total number 91  62  69 G4-10
Full-time employees Total number 3,072  3,003  2,994 G4-10
      Female Total number 1,758  1,728  1,745 G4-10
      Male Total number 1,314  1,275  1,249 G4-10
Part-time employees Total number 144  136  147 G4-10
      Female Total number 128  124  137 G4-10
      Male Total number 16  12  10 G4-10
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTSEmployees covered by collective  
bargaining agreementsPercent of total  
employees0 0 0G4-11
Footnotes:
(l) The total number of employees is based on head count as at December 31.OPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIESPEOPLE
NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES Footnotes Measurement 2014 2013 2012 GRI Indicator
Total employee new hires Total number 329 n/a n/a G4-LA1
     Percent total new hires m Percent of total employees  10.9 n/a n/a G4-LA1
Employee age groups     Under 30 m Percent of total employees  31.6 n/a n/a G4-LA1
     Age 30-50 m Percent of total employees  58.1 n/a n/a G4-LA1
     Over 50 m Percent of total employees  10.3 n/a n/a G4-LA1
Employee Gender     Females m Percent of total employees  54.7 n/a n/a G4-LA1
     Males m Percent of total employees  45.3 n/a n/a G4-LA1
EMPLOYEE TURNOVER Footnotes Measurement 2014 2013 2012 GRI Indicator
Total employee turnover n Total number 353 248 262 G4-LA1
     Percent total turnover m,n Percent of total employees  11.7  8.3  8.8 G4-LA1
Total voluntary employee turnover n Total number 215 161 180 G4-LA1
     Percent voluntary turnover m,n Percent of total employees  7.1  5.4  6.1 G4-LA1
Employee age groups     Under 30 m Percent of total employees  13.6 n/a n/a G4-LA1
     Age 30-50 m Percent of total employees  56.1 n/a n/a G4-LA1
     Over 50 m Percent of total employees  30.3 n/a n/a G4-LA1
Employee Gender     Females m Percent of total employees 57.5 n/a n/a G4-LA1
     Males m Percent of total employees 42.5 n/a n/a G4-LA1
TRAINING AND EDUCATION Footnotes Measurement 2013 2012 GRI Indicator
Employees receiving performance reviews Percent of total eligible employees 91.3 92.5 94.4 G4-LA11
DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Footnotes Measurement 2013 2012 GRI Indicator
Board of Directors     Total number 16 18 18 G4-LA12
     Females Percent of total board 6.3 11.1 11.1 G4-LA12
     Over age 50 Percent of total board 100 100 100 G4-LA12
Employee gender     Females Percent of total employees 58.6 59.0 59.9 G4-LA12
     Males Percent of total employees 41.4 41.0 40.1 G4-LA12
Employee age groups     Under 30 Percent of total employees 14.2 13.3 13.8 G4-LA12
     Age 30-50 Percent of total employees 59.7 61.7 63.4 G4-LA12
     Over 50 Percent of total employees 26.1 25.0 22.8 G4-LA12 
Footnotes:
(m) The ratio is calculated using permanent employees only.
(n)  Turnover has been re-stated for 2012 and 2013.
39OPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIESPEOPLE
DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Footnotes Measurement 2014 2013 2012 GRI Indicator
Executive     Females o Percent of total employees  22.0 21.0 23.1 G4-LA12
     Males o Percent of total employees  78.0 79.0 76.9 G4-LA12
     Under 30 o Percent of total employees  0.5 0.5 0.0 G4-LA12
     % age 30-50 o Percent of total employees  64.7 62.4 63.8 G4-LA12
     % over 50 o Percent of total employees  34.9 37.1 36.2 G4-LA12
Management      Females p Percent of total employees  44.3 45.3 45.6 G4-LA12
     Males p Percent of total employees  55.7 54.7 54.4 G4-LA12
     Under 30 p Percent of total employees  3.2 3.2 3.1 G4-LA12
     Age 30-50 p Percent of total employees  67.7 69.0 72.9 G4-LA12
     Over 50 p Percent of total employees  29.1 27.8 24.0 G4-LA12
Non-managementFemales Percent of total employees  67.7  67.6  68.2 G4-LA12
Males Percent of total employees  32.3  32.4  31.8 G4-LA12
Under 30 Percent of total employees  19.7  18.2  18.8 G4-LA12
Age 30-50 Percent of total employees  56.2  59.0  60.0 G4-LA12
Over 50 Percent of total employees  24.0  22.9  21.2 G4-LA12
Footnotes:
(o) Includes vice-president and above.
(p) Excludes executive management.
40OPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIESENVIRONMENT
ENERGY Footnotes Measurement 2014 2013 2012 GRI Indicator
ENERGY CONSUMED WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION
          Natural gas (heating) q Megawatt hours 6,414  6,029  5,732 G4-EN3
          Jet kerosene r Megawatt hours 2,375  4,994  2,388 G4-EN3
     Non-renewable fuel consumed Megawatt hours 8,789  11,023  8,120 G4-EN3
     Electricity consumed Megawatt hours 6,056  6,648  6,998 G4-EN3
Total energy consumed within the organization s Megawatt hours 14,845  17,671  15,118 G4-EN3
     % of electricity consumed within the organization from low-carbon sources Percent of total 100 100 100
ENERGY CONSUMED OUTSIDE THE ORGANIZATION          Non-renewable fuel consumed - natural gas q,t Megawatt hours 13,396  12,453  11,412 G4-EN4
     Electricity consumed t Megawatt hours 29,389  29,721  30,307 G4-EN4
          Total energy consumed in downstream leased properties s Megawatt hours 42,785  42,174  41,719 G4-EN4
     % of electricity consumed outside the organization from low-carbon sources Percent of total 29 29 28
     Business travel – air Thousands of statute miles 17,580  15,334  14,391 G4-EN4
     Business travel – ground Thousands of kilometres 2,592  2,458  2,294 G4-EN4
     Waste generated in operations - owned facility Thousands of kilograms 87 87 87 G4-EN23
ENERGY INTENSITY     Total electricty and natural gas consumed within and outside the organization Megawatt hours 55,255  54,851  54,449 G4-EN5
     Number of people in owned and leased premises Number 9,547  9,050  8,916 G4-EN5
     Canadian office space Square feet 1,944,056  1,927,029  1,925,473 G4-EN5
     Energy consumed per person Megawatt hours/person 5.79  6.06  6.11 G4-EN5
     Energy consumed per square foot Megawatt hours/square foot 0.028  0.028  0.028 G4-EN5
EMISSIONS Footnotes Measurement 2014 2013 2012 GRI Indicator
Total greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions u,v
Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) Metric tonnes of CO2e 1,716  2,275  1,632 G4-EN15
Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) Metric tonnes of CO2e 24  27  24 G4-EN16
Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) G4-EN17
     Non-renewable fuel emissions - natural gas  t Metric tonnes of CO2e 2,409  2,242  2,054 G4-EN17
     Electricity emissions t Metric tonnes of CO2e 5,081  5,221  5,605 G4-EN17
     Business travel – air w Metric tonnes of CO2e 3,168  2,785  2,851 G4-EN17
     Business travel – ground Metric tonnes of CO2e 636  602  562 G4-EN17
Waste generated in operations x Metric tonnes of CO2e 135 135 135 G4-EN17
Total other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) Metric tonnes of CO2e 11,429  10,985  11,207 G4-EN17
Total direct and indirect emissions (Scope 1,2 and 3) Metric tonnes of CO2e 13,169  13,287  12,863 
GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITYTotal direct and indirect emissions (Scope 1,2 and 3) Metric tonnes of CO2e 13,169  13,287  12,863 G4-EN18
     Number of people in owned and leased premises Number 9,547  9,050  8,916 G4-EN18
     Canadian office space Square feet 1,944,056  1,927,029  1,925,473 G4-EN18
     Emissions per person Metric tonnes of CO2e/person 1.38  1.47  1.44 G4-EN18
     Energy consumed per square foot Metric tonnes of CO2e/sq. ft. 0.007  0.007  0.007 G4-EN18Footnotes:  
(q) Conversion to MWh from  
volume of natural gas  
consumed was based on the 
conversion tool available at 
www.abraxasenergy.com.  
Natural gas is used for heating.
(r) Conversion to MWh from  
volume of jet kerosene 
consumed was based on the conversion tool available at 
www.onlineconversion.com.  
(s) Fuel from renewable sources, as 
defined by G4-EN3, was  
not used.  
(t) Consumed at downstream leased 
properties.  
(u) Our scope 1 and 2 GHG emis-
sions are consolidated based on 
a financial control approach.
(v) Our GHG emissions include 
emissions from the Canadian operations of IGM Financial and 
its operating companies, using a 
base year of 2013 - our first pub-lic year of reporting.  The GHG 
protocol was used. We applied 
Global Warming Potentials from the IPCC Fifth Assessment Re -
port and emissions factors from the National Inventory Report 1990-2012: Greenhouse Gas 
Sources and Sinks in Canada 
(Ottawa: Environment Canada, 2013).  
(w) Air travel emissions are  
calculated by our third party travel contractor. 
(x) Waste generated from operations 
is from owned premises only. Waste quantities are estimated 
by the third party disposal 
contractor. 
 We applied Global Warming 
Potentials from the IPCC Fifth 
Assessment Report and emis-sions factors from the National 
Inventory Report 1990-2012: 
Greenhouse Gas Sources and Sinks in Canada (Ottawa: 
Environment Canada, 2013). 
  
    
      
41OPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIES42GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE NUMBER AND LINK EXTERNAL ASSURANCE AND LINK
STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS
G4-1: Statement from most senior decision-maker A message from our CEOs, page 2 No
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE  G4-3: Name of the organization Who we are, page 3 No
G4-4: Primary brands, products, and/or services Who we are, page 3 and Our operating companies, page 4 No
G4-5: Location of organization's headquarters Who we are, page 3 No
G4-6: Number and name of countries where organization operates Who we are, page 3 No
G4-7: Nature of ownership and legal form Who we are, page 3 and Our operating companies, page 4
2014 Annual Information Form, page 3No
G4-8: Markets served Who we are, page 3 and Our operating companies, page 4 No
G4-9: Scale of the reporting organization Who we are, page 3 and Our operating companies, page 4 No
G4-10: Size of the workforce Data tables, page 38 No
G4-11: Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Data tables, page 38 No
G4-12: Organization's supply chain Who we are, page 3 and Our operating companies, page 4 No
G4-13: Significant changes to size, ownership or supply chain 2014 Annual Report, pages 6-142014 Annual Information Form, page 4No
G4-14: Precautionary principle Risk management, page 12
1No
G4-15: Externally developed economic, environmental and social initiatives Our approach to corporate responsibility, page 7 No
G4-16: List memberships of associations 2014 Carbon Disclosure Project Response, Question 2.3Our Economy: Providing industry leadership, page 20
1No
IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES
G4-17: Entities included in the organization's financial statements About this report: Report scope, page 34
2014 Annual Report, Page 17No
G4-18: Defining report content and aspect boundaries Our report topics, page 81
Our impacts, page 551
About this report: Report scope, page 34No
G4-19: Material aspects identified Our report topics, page 81
Our impacts, page 551No
G4-20: Aspect Boundary within the organization Our impacts, page 551No
G4-21: Aspect Boundary outside the organization Our impacts, page 551No
G4-22: Restatements of information provided in previous reports Data tables, page 36, footnote j; and page 39, footnote n No
G4-23: Significant changes from previous reporting periods Not applicable No
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
G4-24: Stakeholder groups How we engage our stakeholders, page 5 No
G4-25:  Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders How we engage our stakeholders, page 5
Our report topics, page 81No
 1Link is to 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report as the information is unchanged.GRI IndexOPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIES43GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE NUMBER AND LINK EXTERNAL ASSURANCE AND LINK
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
G4-26: Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement How we engage our stakeholders, page 5 No
G4-27: Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement Topics of engagement in 2014, page 6
Our report topics, page 81No
REPORT PROFILE
G4-28: Reporting period About this report: Report on progress, page 34 No
G4-29: Date of most recent previous report About this report: Report on progress, page 34 No
G4-30: Reporting cycle About this report: Report on progress, page 34 No
G4-31: Contact point for questions About this report, page 34 No
G4-32: GRI Content Index GRI Index, page 42 No
G4-33: Assurance About this report: External assurance, page 34 No
GOVERNANCEG4-34: Governance structure Operational Integrity: Corporate governance, page 11
1No
G4-35: Process for delegating authority for EES topics Operational Integrity: Corporate governance, page 111No
G4-36: Executive-level position with EES responsibility Operational Integrity: Corporate governance, page 111No
G4-38: Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Operational Integrity: Corporate governance, page 111No
G4-39: Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer Operational Integrity: Corporate governance, page 111No
G4-40: Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body Management Proxy Circular, Nomination and Assessment of Directors, 
page 42No
G4-41: Processes for highest governance body to manage conflicts of interest Operational Integrity: Corporate governance, page 111No
G4-42: Highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles Operational Integrity: Corporate governance, page 111No
G4-43: Measures to develop knowledge of EES topics Operational Integrity: Corporate governance, page 111No
G4-45: Highest governance body’s role in identifying EES risks  and opportunitiesOperational Integrity: Risk management, page 12
1No
G4-46: Highest governance body’s role in reviewing risk management for EES Operational Integrity: Risk management, page 121No
G4-47: Frequency of highest governance body’s review of EES risks and opportunitiesOperational Integrity: Risk management, page 12
1No
G4-48: Highest committee that formally reviews and approves this report Operational Integrity: Corporate governance, page 111No
G4-49: Communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body Operational Integrity: Corporate governance, page 111No
G4-50: Nature and number of critical concerns communicated Operational Integrity: Corporate governance, page 111No
G4-51: Remuneration policies for the highest governance body  and executivesManagement Proxy Circular, Compensation of Directors, pages 16-19 and Statement of Executive Compensation, pages 20-27No
G4-52: Process for determining remuneration Management Proxy Circular, Compensation Discussion and Analysis, pages 29-37No
ETHICS AND INTEGRITY
G4-56: Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior Formalizing our commitments, page 5
1, and our Corporate Governance 
Practices StatementNo
G4-58: Mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical  
or unlawful behaviorCode of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors, Officers and Employees, pages 5 and 36No
 1Link is to 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report as the information is unchanged.OPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIES44SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES
MATERIAL ASPECT DMA AND INDICATORS PAGE NUMBER AND LINK EXTERNAL ASSURANCE AND LINK
CATEGORY: ECONOMICEconomic Performance Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) G4-DMA - Our Economy: Our management approach, page 17
1No
Direct economic value generated  
and distributedG4-EC1 - Data tables, page 36 No
Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate changeG4-EC2 - 2014 Carbon Disclosure Project Response, Risks and Opportunities Section, questions 5 and 6No
Coverage of the organization's
 defined  
benefit plan obligationsG4-EC3 - Attracting and retaining talent, page 351
2014 Annual Report, page 71No
Indirect Economic 
ImpactsDisclosure on Management Approach (DMA) G4-DMA - Our Economy: Contributing positively to the economy and society, page 191No
Development and impact of infrastructure 
investments and services supportedG4-EC7 - Our Economy: Contributing positively to the economy and society, page 191No
Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impactsG4-EC8 - Our Economy: Promoting financial literacy, page 13 No
CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL
Energy Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) G4-DMA - Our Environment: Our management approach, pages 42-43
1No
Energy consumption within the organization G4-EN3 - Data tables, page 41 No
Energy consumption outside the organization G4-EN4 - Data tables, page 41 No
Energy intensity G4-EN5 - Data tables, page 41 No
Reduction of energy consumption G4-EN6 - Our Environment: Reducing our environmental footprint, page 26 No
Emissions Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) G4-DMA - Our Environment: Our management approach, pages 42 and 451No
Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
(Scope 1)G4-EN15 - Data tables, page 41 Yes, External Assurance Report - Independent practitioner's limited assurance report on IGM Financial Inc.'s Greenhouse Gas (GHG) 
Statement
Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions (Scope 2)G4-EN16 - Data tables, page 41 Yes, External Assurance Report - Independent practitioner's limited 
assurance report on IGM Financial 
Inc.'s Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Statement
Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3)G4-EN17 - Data tables, page 41 No
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity G4-EN18 - Data tables, page 41 No
Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissionsG4-EN19 - Our Environment: Greenhouse gas emissions, page 28 No
 1Link is to 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report as the information is unchanged.OPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIES45SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES
MATERIAL ASPECT DMA AND INDICATORS PAGE NUMBER AND LINK EXTERNAL ASSURANCE AND LINK
CATEGORY: SOCIALSUB-CATEGORY: LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK   
Employment Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) G4-DMA - Our People: Our management approach, Page 34
1No
Total number and rates of new employee hires 
and employee turnover by age group, gender and regionG4-LA1 -  Data tables, page 39 No
Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operationG4-LA2 -  Our People: Attracting and retaining talent, page 35
1No
Training and Education Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) G4-DMA - Our People: Developing our people, page 361No
Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endingsG4-LA10 - Our People: Developing our people, pages 36-37
1No
Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee categoryG4-LA11 - Data tables, page 39 No
Diversity and Equal OpportunityDisclosure on Management Approach (DMA) G4-DMA - Our People: Diversity and inclusion, pages 38-39
1No
Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of 
diversityG4-LA12 - Data tables, page 39 No
SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY   
Compliance Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) G4-DMA - Operational Integrity: Compliance framework, page 13
1No
Monetary value of significant fines and total 
number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulationsG4-SO8 - Data tables, page 35 No
SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY  
Product and Service 
LabelingDisclosure on Management Approach (DMA) G4-DMA - Operational Integrity: Compliance framework, page 13
1No
Type of product and service information required by the organization's procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirementsG4-PR3 - Operational Integrity: Compliance framework, page 13
1No
Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. G4-PR4 -  Data tables, page 35 No
Results of surveys measuring customer satisfactionG4-PR5 - Our Clients: Providing a rewarding client experience, pages 19-20 No
 1Link is to 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report as the information is unchanged.OPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIES46SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES
MATERIAL ASPECT DMA AND INDICATORS PAGE NUMBER AND LINK EXTERNAL ASSURANCE AND LINK
CATEGORY: SOCIALSUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY (CONTINUED)   
Marketing 
CommunicationsDisclosure on Management Approach (DMA) G4-DMA - Operational Integrity: Compliance framework, page 13
1No
Total number of incidents of non-compliance 
with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomesG4-PR7 - Data Tables, page 35 No
Customer Privacy Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) G4-DMA - Operational Integrity: Compliance framework, page 13-14
1No
Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer dataG4-PR8 - Data Tables, page 35 No
Compliance Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) G4-DMA - Operational Integrity: Compliance framework, page 13
1No
Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and servicesG4-PR9  - Data Tables, page 35 No
SECTOR SPECIFIC
Product Portfolio Disclosure on Management Approach G4-DMA - Our Clients: Our management approach, page 24
1No
Percentage of the portfolio for business lines 
by specific region, size (e.g., micro/SME/large) and by sectorG4-FS6 - Data Tables, page 37 No
Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each business line broken down by purposeG4-FS7 - Data Tables, page 37 No
Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit for each business line broken down by purposeG4-FS8 - Data Tables, page 37 No
Active Ownership Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screeningG4-FS11 - Data Tables, page 37 No
Product and Service LabelingPolicies for the fair design and sale of financial products and servicesG4-FS15 - Operational Integrity: Offering products responsibly, pages 13-14
1No
Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiaryG4-FS16 - Our Economy: Promoting financial literacy, page 13 No
 1Link is to 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report as the information is unchanged.OPERATIONAL INTEGRITY OUR ECONOMY OUR CLIENTS OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR COMMUNITIES2014 Corporate Responsibility Update
Responsibility Throughout
 IGM Financial Inc. is a member of the Power Financial Corporation group of companies.
 Trademarks that include Investors Group are owned by IGM Financial Inc. and licensed to subsidiary corporations of Investors Group Inc. 
 Investment Planning Counsel’s trademark is owned by Investment Planning Counsel Inc. and used with permission. 
 Mackenzie Investments’ trademark and LIVEIT are owned by Mackenzie Financial Corporation and used with permission. 
 ©  Copyright IGM Financial Inc. 2015