IGM Financial Sustainability Report2021
Bettering 
lives for 
tomorrow
TSX: IGM1
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability Report
Our purpose
IGM Financial’s family 
of companies are committed to bettering the lives of Canadians, by better planning and managing their money. 
Across our different businesses and communities, 
we’ve seen first-hand the power of better planned and managed money, and how it can change lives. It’s what inspires and unites us, and drives our business forward.
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX2
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability Report3
Introduction
About this report  4
About IGM  5
Creating shared value  6 
Message from our CEO  7 
34
Responsible  
business practices
2021 highlights  35
Corporate governance  36
Ethics and compliance  39
Risk management  42
Information security and privacy  45
Talent and culture  48
Community support  54
Environmental footprint  569
Our sustainability approach
The world around us  10
Recent climate actions  11
Our climate position  12
Material ESG topics  13
Sustainability strategy  14
Sustainable Development Goals  15
Stakeholder engagement  16 
59
 
Appendix
ESG Data Table  60
GRI Index  71
SASB Index  80
TCFD Report  8119
Strategic priorities
2021 highlights  20
Building financial confidence  21 
Advancing sustainable investing  24
Accelerating DE&I in finance  29
 
KEY TERMS  
Sustainability  – We use the term sustainability  
to describe a business approach to creating  
long-term value that takes into consideration how a company impacts the environment, society and economy. Sustainability reporting meets the needs of a variety of stakeholders.
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG)  –  
ESG is a term generally used in the financial 
industry to describe the environmental, social  and governance (ESG) factors considered alongside financial factors in investment  decision making.
Strategic priorities – We use this term to 
describe the areas where we – as wealth and asset managers – can make the greatest impact.
Responsible business practices – We use 
this term to describe the ESG topics that are fundamental to our success and creating value, but not unique to our business model.
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX3
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability Report
IntroductionAt IGM Financial, we’re committed  
to being a force for good for our  
people, clients, communities and 
shareholders. Bettering lives, for  
today and tomorrow.
» About this report
» About IGM  
» Creating shared value» Message from our CEO
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX4
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportAbout  this report 
This sustainability report describes the management approaches and performance of IGM Financial and 
its three principal operating companies: IG Wealth Management, Mackenzie Investments and Investment Planning Counsel. Archived versions of previous reports can be found on our website.
Unless otherwise noted, the information presented here is as at 
December 31, 2021, and all dollar amounts are in Canadian funds (CAD). Aggregated performance data can be found in our 2021 ESG Data Table beginning on page 60 . 
Our report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. A GRI Index can be found on page 71 . We are also reporting to disclosures within the 
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Standard that align closest to our company (Asset Management & Custody Activities)  and aligning our climate change reporting with the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations.  See page 80 and page 81 , respectively.
Report structure and topics 
We have structured this year’s report to align with the three strategic priorities that are central to our business and sustainability strategy, and to how we can genuinely create value for society: building financial confidence, advancing sustainable investing, and accelerating diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) in finance.
The other two sections focus on our approach to strengthening 
policies, practices and performance that are the essential components of a responsible business. Report topics are based  
on our ongoing materiality review (see page 13 ). External assurance 
The information and data in this report were collected and  reviewed by subject matter experts across our business. While  we conduct internal checks on the accuracy and completeness  
of the data we report, we also recognize inherent data uncertainty. 
Our Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Statement for the year ended   
December 31, 2021 was independently assured by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC). PwC performed a limited assurance engagement over the following: total Scope 1 emissions, total Scope 2 emissions and business travel (air and ground) Scope 3 emissions. The results of PwC’s limited assurance engagement are documented in an assurance statement available here.
IntroductionYOUR FEEDBACK »
If you have comments, suggestions  
or questions, please contact us at  sustainability@igmfinancial.com .RELATED PUBLICATIONS »
IGM Annual Report
Management Proxy CircularCDP ReportMackenzie Investments Sustainable Investing ReportESG Analyst Hub for related reports and policies
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX5About  IGM
IGM Financial Inc. is a leading wealth and asset management company supporting financial advisors and 
the clients they serve in Canada, and institutional investors throughout North America, Europe and Asia. 
Our head office is in Winnipeg, Manitoba, and our common shares 
trade on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX: IGM). IGM’s family of companies provide a broad range of financial planning and investment management services to help Canadians meet their financial goals. The company creates value for shareholders through three key areas: 
• Wealth management
• Asset management 
• Strategic investmentsLEARN MORE  »
To learn more about our sustainability 
commitments and partnerships, and the recognition we have earned for our strong business practices, please see the Corporate Sustainability section of our website.
Metrics as of December 31, 2021 Employees1 Products and  
services Distribution  
channels Clients Clients assets Office locations 
Wealth  Management2,001Financial planning  
and/or advice; mutual  
funds; private wealth 
solutions; managed asset 
programs; securities, 
insurance, banking and 
mortgage products3,278
financial advisors  
and associates1M+
retail clients$119.6B
assets under
advisementCorporate offices  
in Winnipeg, Toronto  
and Québec
125
region offices across Canada
432675
financial advisors198K
retail clients$33.1B
assets under
advisementCorporate and distribution 
offices across Canada
Asset Management1,394Mutual funds; ETFs;  
private assets; private  
wealth solutions; managed 
asset programs; other 
related services  30,000+
third-party advisors and 
institutional investors1M+
retail and
institutional clients$210.3B2
assets under
managementCorporate offices in Canada, 
Hong Kong, Beijing, Dublin, 
London and Boston
Strategic
Investments
1 Represents permanent employees.
2 Includes assets sub-advised to IG Wealth Management and IPC of $81.2 billion.IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability Report
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX6
Creating  shared value
By helping clients better plan and manage their money, 
we better their lives and create economic value for our shareholders, employees, financial advisors and partners. We also contribute to a healthy financial system and healthy communities – for the benefit of all Canadians. See the IGM Annual Report  for more information.
2021 ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED
Revenue
$3,448 MShareholders and lenders
$652 M
in annual dividends and 
interest paidEmployees 
$590 M 
in compensation and  
benefits paidCommunities  
$9M 
in community investments across Canada
Advisors
$919 M
in sales  
commissions paidSuppliers
$548 M
in goods and services purchasedTaxes
$287 M
in taxes almost  entirely in CanadaEconomic  
value retained
$443 MIGM Financial 2021 Sustainability Report
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX7
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportJames O’Sullivan
President and Chief Executive Officer,  
IGM Financial
Message  from our CEO
As the world emerges from the pandemic, IGM’s purpose – to better 
the lives of Canadians, by better planning and managing their money – reminds us of the role we can play in helping people get back on track to leading the life they desire and to confidently planning for a better future. 
Through the pandemic, we’ve prioritized the health and wellness of 
our employees and advisors, helped our clients navigate financial challenges, and supported the communities in which we live and work. Though this time has forced us all to take many pauses, we’ve continued to work with an eye to the future and to how we can create better tomorrows for our stakeholders.
In line with the theme of this year’s report – bettering lives for 
tomorrow  – we’ve forged ahead with our strategic sustainability 
priorities and announced new commitments and collaborations 
aimed at tackling some of the most pressing social, economic and environmental issues. Our sustainability strategy is focused on accelerating positive change in specific areas where we – as wealth and asset managers – can make the greatest impact. I’m proud to report progress in each of these areas.Building financial confidence
Building financial confidence is at the core of our business. We believe that providing Canadians with the knowledge and resources they need to understand and feel confident about their financial plan will help them build a better future and, in turn, improve other aspects of their lives.
In 2021, IG and IPC advisors continued to provide comprehensive 
financial planning, advice and related services to millions of Canadians in communities from coast to coast. We also rolled out digital tools to enable our advisors to offer an increasingly sophisticated level of counsel. This included, for example, Conquest’s next-generation financial planning software to help IG advisors and clients work together to navigate the complexities of planning and create personalized IG Living Plans. Mackenzie, meanwhile, offered independent financial advisors relevant information, news, tools and resources to build their clients’ confidence, and their business.
This work with our clients carried over into our communities, where 
we seek to remove barriers to building financial confidence for youth, seniors, newcomers and Indigenous Peoples. In 2021, IG delivered more than 50 virtual financial literacy workshops, reaching over 4,500 people. As part of this commitment, and our focus on truth and reconciliation, IG is also partnering with Prosper Canada 
“ Though this time has forced us all to take many pauses, 
we’ve continued to work with an eye to the future and to 
how we can create better tomorrows for our stakeholders.”
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX8
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability Reportto deliver customized financial literacy and education training to 
Indigenous Peoples in isolated, rural communities.
Advancing sustainable investing 
Sustainable investing continues to gain momentum, as growing numbers of investors look for their investments to deliver superior risk-adjusted returns, while making a farther-reaching impact – such as tackling climate change or promoting equity and inclusion. Mackenzie, IG and IPC are all stepping up to meet the demand.
As an asset manager, Mackenzie is on a mission to make it easy 
for investors and advisors to integrate sustainable solutions into their portfolios. In addition to launching several products, Mackenzie introduced a new sustainability-focused investment boutique, Mackenzie Betterworld, which invests in companies that are making a positive impact on people and the planet. Thanks to efforts like these, Mackenzie’s assets under management in sustainable solutions grew to $4.3 billion by year-end 2021, from $1.6 billion in 2020, and more than 7,000 advisors are now using its sustainable products. 
IG launched the innovative IG Climate Action Portfolios this past 
year – a suite of four diversified managed solutions that offer a new way for clients to support the world’s transition to net-zero emissions and take advantage of the growth opportunities therein. In light of the growing interest, IG also significantly increased its training for advisors on climate change and sustainable investing strategies and solutions, so they can make ESG a regular part of their conversations with retail clients. Accelerating DE&I in finance
Events of the past few years have challenged us to think more broadly about systemic racism and inequities that hold people back from realizing their full potential. We’re determined to be a catalyst for change, and the best place to start is within our company and industry. We aim to be a leading voice for advancing DE&I across the financial services industry. 
In line with this ambition, we hired our first Vice-President of 
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion, who helped redefine our strategy to infuse DE&I into our workplace culture, business practices and brand. We’re making good progress – including rolling out objectives for all people leaders to help advance DE&I practices within their teams, and launching volunteer, employee-led business resource groups to elevate the role played by our diverse communities. 
In 2021, we endorsed the Canadian Truth and Reconciliation 
Commission’s Call to Action #92, which asks companies to ensure that Indigenous Peoples are included in and benefit from their business activities. Additional highlights included the recently launched Mackenzie Together community platform, which is dedicated to creating a more inclusive investment world by advancing women through education, financial security and career opportunities.
At the same time, we recognize that achieving our goal of 
accelerating DE&I will require sustained effort and we are prepared to put in the work.Investing in a strong foundation
Underpinning everything we do is a commitment to responsible business practices. We continually invest in the capabilities needed to ensure that we’re meeting our responsibilities and creating value for today and for a sustainable future. 
In 2021, we declared our support for a stronger global response to 
climate change and our commitment to climate action. I encourage you to read the Q&A with our Senior Vice-President, Enterprise Sustainability and Financial Risk ( page 11 ) to learn more about this. 
We also invested in the people who fuel our performance and the culture that inspires them to live our purpose. With the vast majority of our employees and advisors working from home for another year, I cannot thank them enough for being innovative, staying connected to our clients and one another, and remaining productive. 
Our people truly are the engine of our success, and the reason 
why we continue to earn industry accolades. In 2021, all three IGM operating companies ranked as Top 100 Employers, nationally for IG and in the Greater Toronto Area for Mackenzie and IPC. In addition, IGM was recognized in Corporate Knights ’ Global 100 Most 
Sustainable Corporations for the third year – ranking as the top capital markets and asset management firm in 2022.
We look to the new year with growing confidence that the worst of 
the pandemic is behind us, and excitement for what’s ahead as we deliver on our purpose. Thank you for your interest in our progress.
James O’Sullivan  
President and Chief Executive Officer
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX9
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability Report
Our  
sustainability  
approach As a leading Canadian financial 
services organization and an allocator of capital worldwide, we believe that we have a responsibility to engage and  
act on the issues that matter most to our business and stakeholders. 
» The world around us
»  Recent climate actions
» Our climate position» Material ESG topics» Sustainability strategy» Sustainable Development Goals» Stakeholder engagement
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX10
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportThe world around us 
Here’s a look at some of the external issues that have influenced IGM’s sustainability strategy and its implementation in the past year.
Net zero
Climate change is a defining challenge of our time with 
transformative and far-reaching impacts on the global economy and society. In 2021, Canadians witnessed the real risks and impacts of climate change in the extreme weather events in British Columbia and around the world. We also saw growing momentum for climate action with the launch of the Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero (GFANZ) and the outcomes of the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP26). 
As a large Canadian financial services organization and an allocator 
of capital worldwide, we have a responsibility to both manage the risks posed by climate change, and support the transition to a net-zero economy through our operations, our investment processes and products, and our engagement with clients and others. 
Global pandemic
The global pandemic affected people around the world again in 2021, as new variants and waves of COVID-19 infection resulted in the further loss of lives, pressure on healthcare systems, supply chain disruptions, financial worries and more. 
Our employees and advisors continued to work from home for  
most of the year, and their health and well-being remained a top 
priority. IG and IPC advisors were in frequent contact with their clients, helping them navigate evolving market conditions and inflation concerns. Most of our community programming was conducted virtually.Inequality
Inequalities exacerbated by the pandemic have led to disproportionate impacts on groups of people who were already facing social and economic disadvantages, including women, and Black, Indigenous and other racialized communities. 
Accelerating DE&I is a priority in our workplace, and for our  
industry engagement, community programs and sustainable investing practices.
Indigenous reconciliation
With the tragic discovery of 215 unmarked Indigenous graves in Kamloops, British Columbia, and then thousands more in other provinces, Canadians faced ugly truths about the legacy of residential schools and the harmful effects many Indigenous Peoples continue  
to endure. 
We believe every generation of Canadians must learn the truth about 
Indigenous history and participate in the healing journey. While we have increased our support of Indigenous communities throughout our business, we know there’s more that we – and our whole  
country – can do. 
Regulations and reporting
As investor interest in sustainability grows, there’s mounting pressure on companies to provide more information on their ESG governance, risk, strategies, targets and performance. Regulators are responding by introducing ESG disclosure requirements that promote transparency, reliability and consistency in the way this information is reported. Standards-setters are contributing by coming together to deliver a consolidated, global set of sustainability-related disclosure standards.
IGM supports the standardization of ESG data both as an issuer and 
in support of our sustainable investing practices. We are following the developments and are participating in consultations to inform the future direction. We also commit to evolving our practices in line with emerging reporting standards.
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX11
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportRecent  climate actions 
Interview with Andrea Carlson
Why was it important for IGM to release a  
Climate Position Statement in 2021?
At IGM, we’ve long recognized the role we can play in tackling 
climate change and the need to be transparent about our plans and progress. IGM was an early adopter of voluntary reporting to CDP and, in 2019, we committed to the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
To implement TCFD, we gathered a working group of cross-
functional leaders to spearhead our efforts. One of their early recommendations was to define our north star, so as to ensure clear alignment across the company on our climate commitments and plans, and this recommendation ultimately led to our Climate Position Statement. We rallied around three commitments that would contribute to driving progress on global climate objectives: investing in a greener, climate resilient economy; collaborating and engaging to help shape the transition; and demonstrating alignment through our corporate actions. These commitments are now guiding us as we move forward.
How has the statement furthered your approach  
to tackling climate change?It has helped deepen our collective understanding of climate change 
and how it relates to our business, and clarified the actions we are prepared to take. It has also facilitated discussions on what more we can do. 
We’ve started to evaluate climate metrics beyond traditional 
emissions measurements, and we’re enhancing our tools, resources and target setting across our Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. We’re also participating in more climate discussions within our industry and in collaborative engagements. Our commitment to be carbon neutral in our own operations is also driving an increased focus on how we can further reduce emissions from our offices and travel so that our use of carbon offsets decreases over time. Our corporate services and sustainability teams are working together to review and enhance our long-term plans.
What are the next big milestones you want to achieve? As part of Mackenzie’s commitment to the Net Zero Asset Managers 
initiative, we’ll be setting short-term targets for a portion of Mackenzie’s assets under management in line with the global goal to achieve net zero by 2050. We’re also enhancing our climate-related engagement practices and encouraging companies to set their own science-based emissions reduction targets. 
IG is making a concerted effort to work with each of its investment 
sub-advisors to better understand where they are in their climate journeys and to inform the next steps that it can take.
Across IGM, there’s an ongoing focus on educating employees 
and advisors, and reviewing advancements in net-zero standards and science-based target-setting methodologies. As part of our commitment to the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials, we’re also working with our peers to bring industry-wide consistency to the measurement and reporting of investment emissions.
What are your plans for reporting in the coming year?Each year, we look to enhance our climate and reporting practices as 
we implement the TCFD recommendations.
We provide TCFD-compliant information in our annual sustainability 
report and financial reports to align with the goal of including climate disclosure in mainstream reporting. We’ve been reporting to CDP since 2013 and have been recognized at a leadership level for the past five years, despite the requirements becoming increasingly stringent every year in line with the TCFD recommendations. 
Mackenzie will be reviewing its disclosure requirements under the Net 
Zero Asset Managers initiative, including the need to publish a climate action plan and related targets in 2022.
“Each year, we look to enhance  
our climate and reporting practices 
as we implement the TCFD 
recommendations.”
Andrea Carlson
SVP, Enterprise 
Sustainability and  
Financial Risk
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX12
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability Report IntroductionOur climate position
In November 2021, IGM officially introduced its climate commitments, in support of the global climate 
momentum achieved during COP26. Our commitments focus on the three areas where we can make  
our greatest contribution to the global transition to a low-carbon economy:
1. Investing in a greener, climate-resilient economy  
 
Our investment processes and 
products give us the opportunity to manage climate risks and create innovative solutions to ongoing climate issues. 2.  Collaborating and  
engaging to help shape  
the global transition  
 
We play a vital role in bringing climate-smart investment advice and solutions to clients, helping companies adapt, and participating in industry and policy advancements. 3. Demonstrating  
alignment through our 
corporate actions  
We will hold ourselves to 
a similar standard that we expect from the companies we invest in and empower our employees to stand behind our commitments. 
With our Climate Position Statement as a north star, our operating companies are empowered to pursue climate risks and opportunities in the way that best represents their distinct identities and business models and where they bring unique value to or impact global climate objectives.
Our full Statement, with our detailed commitments, is posted on our website.Collaborating for change 
Engaging in regulatory and policy dialogue, and collaborating to 
advance science-based approaches, data and tools, play a big role in how we’re helping our sector stand as a confident ally in the fight against climate change. Recent initiatives include the following:
• IGM joined the P artnership for Carbon Accounting Financials  to 
support our journey to measure and disclose the GHG emissions associated with our loans and investments.
• IG and Mackenzie became founding signatories to the Canadian Investor Statement on Climate Change , calling for increased 
accountability in the private sector.
• IG and Mackenzie joined Climate Action 100+ , an investor-led 
initiative to ensure the world’s largest corporate emitters take action on climate change. 
• Mackenzie became a signatory to the Net Zero Asset Managers 
Initiative , joining global asset managers committed to supporting 
the goal of net-zero financed emissions.
• Mackenzie is a founding participant in Climate Engagement Canada , a finance-led initiative driving dialogue with industry to 
promote a just transition to a net-zero economy.
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX13
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportMaterial  ESG topics 
To succeed as a company, we need to identify, understand and manage the ESG topics that matter  
most to our stakeholders and our business. Guided by the GRI Standards materiality principle, we  
have an ongoing process for identifying and prioritizing relevant social, environmental, governance  
and economic topics.
When identifying topics, we consider emerging trends and 
issues relevant to our industry – including sector-relevant topics addressed by peers, the GRI Standards, SASB Standards and TCFD recommendations. We also consider issues raised in public discussions and through our interactions with ESG rating agencies and research firms. 
Our prioritization of topics considers input from both internal and 
external stakeholders, including feedback from our business leaders and the Sustainability Committee. While much of our stakeholder engagement takes place on a day-to-day basis through regular interactions, we also employ formal methods of engagement such as surveys, forums and meetings. Examples of topics raised in 2021 through stakeholder engagement are provided on page 16 .The outcome of our process is a list of material topics that we include in our sustainability strategy and report ( page 14 ). Topics are 
grouped into two categories:
• Strategic priorities – Topics that are central to our business and sustainability strategy, representing areas where we can make our greatest contribution to accelerating sustainable development and creating long-term business and societal value.
• Responsible business practices – Topics that are managed in the regular course of our business and that enable us to meet our sustainability commitments and stakeholder promises, and to enhance trust in our company.
Due to their interconnectedness with other topics, client experience and climate change do not have their own sections in this report. Rather, information on our approach to these topics is woven throughout the report on relevant pages. Aspects of client experience are also discussed in our 2021 Annual Report. Discussions on climate change can be found in the Risk Management, Sustainable Investing and Environmental Footprint sections of this report, and in the TCFD Report in the Appendix.
Our prioritization of topics 
considers input from both internal and external stakeholders, including feedback from our business leaders and the Sustainability Committee.MATERIALITY PROCESS
IntroductionASSESS AND SET PRIORITIESExternal disclosure frameworks 
(GRI, SASB, TCFD)
List of potential ESG topicsAssess material topics from ESG rating 
agencies, industry and emerging trends
Sustainability  Committee review
Strategic priorities Responsible business practicesStakeholder feedback mechanismsIDENTIFY ESG TOPICS
CURRENT MATERIAL ESG TOPICSBusiness strategy & leader interviews
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX14
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportSustainability  strategy
Our sustainability strategy keeps us focused on what matters most to our business and our stakeholders, and seeks 
to accelerate positive change in areas where we – as wealth and asset managers – can make the greatest impact. 
MATERIAL ESG TOPICS
BUILDING FINANCIAL CONFIDENCE ACCELERATING DE&I IN FINANCE
ADVANCING SUSTAINABLE INVESTINGHIGHLY TRUSTED COMPANIES
THE BEST PLACES TO WORKBettering the lives 
of Canadians by 
better planning 
and managing 
their moneyMATERIAL ESG TOPICS
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES
Financial conﬁdence
Sustainable investingDiversity, equity and inclusionCorporate governanceEthics and complianceRisk managementInformation security and privacyTalent and cultureCommunity supportEnvironmental footprint
Client experience
Climate change
Being responsibly managed companies that consider social, economic and environmental 
impacts, and empowering employees to thrive as we pursue sustainable growth.BEING HIGHLY TRUSTED COMPANIES AND THE BEST PLACES TO WORK ACCELERATING DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION (DE&I) IN FINANCE
Breaking down barriers in our industry for women; individuals who are Black, Indigenous and People of Colour; and other traditionally disadvantaged groups. BUILDING FINANCIAL CONFIDENCE
Oﬀering resources and expertise to help Canadians feel conﬁdent about their ﬁnances, so they can achieve their goals and own their ﬁnancial future.
ADVANCING SUSTAINABLE INVESTING
Advancing sustainable investing practices to generate positive outcomes for our clients’ portfolios and the world around us. 
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX15
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportSustainable  Development Goals
The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a set of 17 goals that provide a framework for a more sustainable world  
by 2030. While we contribute directly and indirectly to each of the 17 goals, we recently undertook an exercise to re-examine  
the SDG indicators that are most relevant to our business. Our findings are described below. 
SDGs and relevant indicators Our contributions
4.5  By 2030, eliminate gender disparities in education and ensure equal access to all levels of education 
and vocational training for the vulnerable
4.6  By 2030, ensure that all youth and a substantial proportion of adults achieve literacy and numeracy• Ensuring inclusive and equitable quality education through the development of our employees and 
advisors, support for students, and a focus on the financial literacy of our clients and community. See Building financial confidence, page 21; Accelerating DE&I in finance, page 29; and Talent and culture, 
page 48.
10.2   By 2030, empower and promote the social, economic and political inclusion of all
10.4   Adopt policies that progressively achieve greater equality
10.5   Improve the regulation and monitoring of global financial markets and institutions and strengthen  
the implementation of such regulations• Tackling inequalities through our new diversity, equity and inclusion strategy, our Empower Your Tomorrow programs, and our commitment to a just transition to net zero. 
• Where previously we identified SDG#1 (No Poverty) and SDG#5 (Gender Equality), we believe that the expanded scope of our activities is more closely aligned to the delivery of SDG#10. See Building financial confidence,  page 21; Advancing sustainable investing, page 24; and  Accelerating DE&I in 
finance, page 29.
13.2  Integrate climate change measures into national policies, strategies and planning
13.3   Improve education, awareness-raising and human and institutional capacity on climate change 
mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction and early warning• Managing climate change through our risk management and sustainable investing processes, engaging with investee companies, reducing our environmental footprint, and demonstrating transparency in climate-related disclosures. See Advancing sustainable investing, page 24; Risk management, page 42; 
and Environmental footprint, page 56.
16.5  Substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all their forms
16.6  Develop effective, accountable and transparent institutions at all levels
16.7  Ensure responsive, inclusive, participatory and representative decision making at all levels• Playing a role in Canada’s financial services sector through our leadership in a number of regulatory, governance and standards associations, which work in the interests of the investing public. See Advancing sustainable investing, page 24; Corporate governance, page 36; and Ethics and compliance, 
page 39.
17.16   Enhance global partnerships for sustainable development to support the achievement of the goals 
in all countries• Our joint commitments and collaborations are identified throughout this report. A full list of our recognition and commitments  can be found on our website.
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX16
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportStakeholder  engagement 
Through engagement with stakeholders, we learn about their needs, expectations and concerns, ensure their 
voices are considered in our decision making and activities, and collaborate to advance greater progress.
Clients
WAYS WE ENGAGE
• Annual client and advisor surveys
• Client service call centres
• Advisory panels and focus groups
• In-person and virtual communications
See page 18  for details.
KEY TOPICS IN 2021
• Navigating volatile markets, including  
inflation concerns
• Sustainable investing education and events, including  
climate-focused events
• Diversity, equity and inclusionShareholders
WAYS WE ENGAGE
• Annual General Meeting
• Quarterly earnings calls
• Conferences and road shows
• Investor/analyst meetings, ad hoc communications
• ESG rating agency and research firm communications
• Board engagement mechanisms
KEY TOPICS IN 2021
• ESG and climate disclosures
• Board diversity 
• Indigenous-oriented actions and reconciliation
• Enhancing governance disclosures
• Implementing an advisory vote for Say on PayEmployees
WAYS WE ENGAGE
• Engagement and pulse surveys
• Employee forums and intranet
• Performance and development discussions
• Email bulletins
• Team meetings and townhalls with local leaders
• Q&A webcasts with executives
KEY TOPICS IN 2021
• Business/performance updates
• Corporate values
• Health and wellness
• Diversity, equity and inclusion events and training
• Indigenous reconciliation
• Environmental responsibility
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX17
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportWe’re having more conversations around ESG with investors and analysts, seeing 
increased interest from clients on sustainable investing, and engaging more frequently with employees and others on environmental and social issues.
Financial advisors
WAYS WE ENGAGE
• Surveys, meetings, focus groups
• Client service teams and call centres
• Conferences, training and webinars
• Online collaboration platforms
KEY TOPICS IN 2021
• Client service products and new digital tools
• Climate change and sustainable investing
• Product and service needs for diverse clientsIndustry partners
WAYS WE ENGAGE
• Memberships on regulatory committees and industry 
associations
• Participation on regulatory roundtables, public submissions, industry working groups and technical committees
• Meetings, conferences and events
KEY TOPICS IN 2021
• Just transition to net zero
• Privacy, including new and proposed provincial and federal privacy laws
• Canadian Securities Administrators’ client-focused reforms implementation
• Climate and ESG disclosure and regulatory changesCommunities
WAYS WE ENGAGE
• Community partnership meetings, events
• Community workshops
• Focus groups and sustainability networks
• Financial literacy initiatives and programsStakeholder engagement (continued)“
KEY TOPICS IN 2021
• Financial planning
• Financial literacy
• Indigenous reconciliation
• Gender equality
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX18
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportSurveying clients and advisors 
IG regularly surveys clients to evaluate their relationship with 
our company, their advisor and their experience with financial 
planning. Results are used to align employee and advisor compensation with client satisfaction. Select clients also share their insights and ideas with senior leadership through a client advisory council chaired by the Executive Vice-President,  
General Counsel. 
Through separate quarterly satisfaction surveys, we gather 
feedback from financial advisors about the quality of their business relationship with us. Advisors also participate in external surveys in which they are asked to rate their firms.
In 2021, we hired a Head of Client Experience to lead a team that 
will, among other things, bring additional focus to the areas of client and advisor experience, and client affinity segments and loyalty.
IPC surveys its network of financial advisors three times per year. The survey results feed into an Advisor Satisfaction Index, giving advisors a voice and providing us with insights into what’s important for our advisors and how we can help them build better businesses. The results captured through this index also influence employees’ year-end compensation and give us a Net Promoter Score, which measures the likelihood that an IPC advisor would recommend the firm to another advisor in the industry.
At Mackenzie, advisor satisfaction is measured through the annual Environics Advisor Perception Study and other proprietary surveys, including quarterly brand-tracking surveys conducted  by Ipsos.
ISSUES RESOLUTION
Should issues arise, our operating companies have formal  
procedures to handle written or verbal complaints from clients.  
These procedures are guided by the principles of fairness,  timeliness and reasonability in their assessment of each issue. 
Each client’s first point of resolution is their advisor. Call centres at 
each company assist with routine inquiries and complaints. When problems are escalated, the resolution process includes a thorough examination of the complaint by dedicated compliance professionals. The investigator contacts the client and conducts a personalized review of the client’s concern. Upon completion, the client receives a written summary of the investigation. If a client has a complaint regarding their accounts that cannot be resolved to their satisfaction, they may also contact the Ombudsman for Banking Services and Investments in writing through its website at obsi.ca .8.6/10 
In the Investment Executive 2021 Dealers’ Report Card, 
which surveys financial advisors about their firms and the overall wealth management industry, IG’s scores increased in 26 of the 27 business categories, the most of any firm in the study. IG’s overall score rose from 8.0 in 2020, to 8.6 in 2021. The feedback IG advisors shared in the study showed that the changes put in place to transform the experience for our advisors and clients were making an impact.9.0/10
Rated at 9.0 out of 10, IPC was one of the top firms for advisor support and communication in the Investment 
Executive  2021 Dealers’ Report Card.Strong performance
In 2021 brand tracking, Mackenzie enjoyed stronger relative performance versus competitors in helping or supporting advisors as they build their business, and in its ESG leadership. 
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX19
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability Report
Strategic  
prioritiesOur sustainability strategy  
is focused on positive change  
in the three areas where we –  
as wealth and asset managers – 
can make the greatest impact.
» Building financial confidence
» Advancing sustainable investing» 
 Accelerating DE&I in finance
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX202021  highlights
BUILDING FINANCIAL CONFIDENCE
80+
virtual financial literacy workshops  
delivered to more than 7,300 people
4,000+
IG and IPC advisors delivering holistic  
financial planning, advice, and promoting the  
financial well-being of clients
$5M
commitment between 2021 and 2023 to 
further the financial confidence of Indigenous communities in Canada
  
IG streaming series
 takes Indigenous, newcomer, senior and youth 
entrepreneurs on a financial education journey  
to unlock their dreamsADVANCING SUSTAINABLE INVESTING
$4.3B 
assets under management in sustainable solutions at year-end 2021
7,000+
advisors using Mackenzie sustainable products
743
companies engaged on climate in  
Mackenzie managed investments
50%
of Mackenzie retail investment products received  
the Morningstar low carbon designation
Product launches
New environmentally focused products:
• IG Climate Action Portfolios
• Mackenzie Global Green Bond Fund and the 
Mackenzie Global Sustainable Bond Fund and ETFACCELERATING DE&I IN FINANCE
Call to  
Action #92 
IGM endorsed the Truth and Reconciliation 
Commission Call to Action
DE&I objectives
linked to annual incentives for  
all people leaders
Centre of Excellence 
established to develop and execute  
the IGM DE&I strategy and programs
Gender  
pay equity 
audit undertaken with no significant  
pay gaps identified
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability Report
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX21
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportBuilding  financial confidence 
Building financial confidence and well-being is at the core of our business. We believe that providing 
Canadians with the knowledge and resources they need to understand and feel confident about their personal finances will help them build a better financial future for themselves, and in turn improve other aspects of their lives. The more people we can reach, the better it is for them, for society and for our company. 
Financial planning and advice 
Across our operating companies, we build financial confidence by 
sharing our expertise and relevant news, tools and resources with financial advisors, clients and communities.
IG and IPC advisors provide comprehensive financial planning, advice 
and related services to Canadians in communities from coast to coast. Advisors’ one-on-one relationships with clients often span decades, as the advisors work closely with their clients to help them meet financial goals at different stages of their lives. At Mackenzie, the focus is on helping advisors stay at the forefront of our industry, keeping them informed and educated so they can support their clients and build their financial future.
We continue to introduce sophisticated digital tools and new 
processes to modernize the client experience and free up more time for our advisors to attend to their clients’ financial planning needs. One of the latest, CapIntel, helps IG advisors monitor client investment portfolios and efficiently address expanded “know your client (KYC) and know your product (KYP) rules that are part of new client-focused reforms, enabling them to spend more time on financial planning. In 2021, we created the role of Head of Financial Planning at IG to advance our financial planning and advice strategies and offerings. This new position and team will also work to enhance advisors’ skills and knowledge, and act as thought leaders and ambassadors in promoting the value of comprehensive financial planning.
As we evolve our high net worth (HNW) wealth management 
services, IPC added a similar role, Head of Wealth Management, to strengthen capabilities to support services such as tax, estate and financial advice. IPC is also focused on deepening its talent in portfolio advisory to deliver high-value portfolio design consultation to support advisors’ growth. 
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX22
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability Report
Tracking financial confidence 
The IG Financial Confidence Index, which is part of the IG Empower Your Tomorrow program, tracks and 
reports on Canadians’ overall financial confidence through 10 survey questions.
The 2021 end-of-year survey showed Canadians’ financial 
confidence steadily climbing from late 2020, to spring of 2021, to the fall. However, certain groups such as Indigenous communities still sit below the national average, and only one in two women feels she’s better off coming out of the pandemic. Here are some of the findings.
National service desks
We firmly believe that building long-term relationships with clients is 
the best way to help individuals reach their financial goals – at every stage of their lives. The IG National Service Centre and IPC National Accounts Desk are centralized services for providing account support and financial advice to client households with smaller accounts, enabling us to offer a targeted, consistent and real-time experience. 
The licensed financial representatives leverage technology to help 
clients manage their plans and investment accounts, and they assist with mortgage, banking and insurance needs. As their needs evolve, clients have access to advisors who focus on more complicated and sophisticated financial planning.57 
The average financial 
confidence of Canadians rose seven points  
from 2020
64 
Canadian seniors and  
new Canadians scored seven points above the national average
49
Indigenous Canadians scored eight points lower than the national average53% 
of women feel they are better off financially coming out of the pandemic
79% 
of Canadians who consulted a financial planner felt prepared and on track to meet their financial goals  
(vs. 59% who had not)Financial literacy 
Financial literacy is an essential life skill. Having the knowledge,  
tools and confidence to make responsible financial decisions not  only improves a person’s financial well-being, it also goes a long  way to improving other aspects of their life and their prospects for the future.
IG’s longstanding partnership with the Canadian Foundation for 
Economic Education (CFEE) is one of our main vehicles for advancing financial literacy. Together, we’ve impacted the financial education curriculum in provinces across Canada and improved the ability of hundreds of thousands of Canadians to better undertake their financial decisions. 
We shifted to virtual financial literacy workshops partway 
through 2020 and continued this format in 2021. The results were outstanding – over 80 workshops delivered to more than 7,300 seniors, youth, parents and teachers in sessions during the year. Given the success, we intend to offer both virtual and, when circumstances permit, in-person sessions going forward.
IG’s longstanding partnership with the 
Canadian Foundation for Economic Education (CFEE) is one of our main vehicles for advancing financial literacy.
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX23
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportFinancial inclusion 
IG Empower Your Tomorrow
Alongside our business activities, we promote financial confidence 
through our community program, IG Empower Your Tomorrow. Through IG advisors, national partnerships, community seminars, events and educational materials, the program works to  remove barriers to financial confidence among four traditionally underserved groups, as follows. 
Indigenous Peoples –  Canada’s Indigenous Peoples are a vital 
part of our country’s culture, yet many face unique barriers to 
financial wellness on a daily basis. We partner with organizations like Opportunities for Employment  to provide financial education and 
job training. 
2021 was the first official year of the IG Empower Your Tomorrow 
Indigenous Commitment, which will dedicate $5 million over five years to support programs and initiatives to further the financial confidence of Indigenous communities in Canada. As part of this commitment, we’re partnering with Prosper Canada  to deliver 
customized financial literacy and education training. This education focuses on vital topics, such as access to personal identification,  
tax filing, benefits applications, money management and Registered Education Savings Plan (RESP) workshops. Through a train-the-trainer approach, this work will include a capacity-building element for Indigenous communities that will benefit future generations.
Newcomers – Learning the financial systems of a new country can 
be daunting, which is why we work with the Immigrant and Refugee Community Organization of Manitoba  (IRCOM) to provide financial 
education in newcomers’ first language. We also have a longstanding partnership with United Way and support local chapters across the country so they can offer financial literacy programs to newcomers.Seniors – Seniors in our communities often face unique financial challenges that come with age. We offer support through financial planning workshops and webinars designed to guide seniors through financial considerations in collaboration with our national partners, including the Alzheimer Society of Canada. The IG Walk for Alzheimer’s is an annual event to raise awareness and funds to support people and families living with Alzheimer’s disease and other dementias. A virtual walk for the past two years, the event raised $5.2 million in 2021. Learn more about our community investments on page 54 .
Youth – In addition to our CFEE partnership, and recognizing  basic literacy as a precursor to financial literacy, we support  Dyslexia Canada’s Mark It Read national campaign, which raises awareness and support for the 10–20% of Canadian children living with dyslexia.PRESENTING THE DREAM TEAM
In time for Financial Literacy Month in November, the IG Empower Your Tomorrow program presented an eight-episode CBC Gem series called The Dream Team . 
The series took Canadians on a journey of financial education as passionate Indigenous, newcomer, senior and youth entrepreneurs overcame barriers to unlock their dreams. The show demonstrated the powerful impact of supporting communities with foundational financial education and advice. 
Led by Manjit Minhas of Dragon’s Den fame, The Dream Team 
was a group of business and financial experts (including IG experts) who guided these promising entrepreneurs.
 
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX24
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportAdvancing  sustainable investing 
Over the past two years, the pandemic, climate change and other environmental and social issues have 
accelerated an already increasing focus on sustainable investing. More investors are looking to drive positive change in their portfolios and the world, to mitigate the risks of ESG trends and to capitalize  
on the opportunities these trends present. 
At IGM, we have a longstanding practice of being sustainable investors 
to better manage risk and generate long-term sustainable returns for our clients. All of our operating companies have formalized their commitments through sustainable investment policies, which outline the approach taken to integrate ESG criteria in investment analysis and decision making processes, and to enable active ownership through engagement and proxy voting. 
This approach is aligned with the long-term interests of our clients, 
with the financial markets and economies in which we operate, and ultimately with broader social and environmental goals. IG and Mackenzie are signatories to the PRI, which offers a framework for integrating ESG factors into the investment analysis and decision making process for mainstream investment managers.There are, however, differences between our operating companies because of their distinct business models. IG and IPC offer investment funds to their retail clients, which are primarily managed by high-quality external sub-advisors (asset managers). As a result, their primary role is to monitor and evaluate the sustainable investing practices of these sub-advisors, and to select those uniquely positioned to deliver on certain fund mandates. 
Mackenzie is an investment manager providing investment solutions 
to retail, institutional and strategic accounts through a boutique structure that includes internal investment teams along with external sub-advisors in select specialized areas. Investment boutiques implement tailored approaches to sustainable investing – from more conventional ESG risk mitigation strategies to impact investing, whose principal goal is to bring about positive societal impact while also delivering attractive returns. 
More information about each company’s approach and progress  
is provided on the following pages.
Who has responsibility Oversight of sustainable investment policies and processes is the responsibility of the Senior Vice-President,  
IG Investments, at IG; the Chief Investment Officer (CIO) at IPC; and the two CIOs and Head of Sustainability at  Mackenzie. IG and Mackenzie both have Sustainable Investing Committees that include broad representation  to advance implementation of sustainable investing practices.
Introduction
»    Mackenzie has started using an ESG investment tool which 
leverages the SDGs to measure the sustainable impact of 
a company’s products and services. Funds are assessed to identify the positive or negative contribution of each holding’s products or services toward the SDGs, and the results translate into an overall score.
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX25
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportSUPPORTING A JUST TRANSITION  
TO NET ZERO
Ahead of the United Nations COP26, IG and 
Mackenzie joined Canadian institutional investors managing $5.5 trillion in signing the Canadian Investor 
Statement on Climate  Change . The Statement calls on 
companies to act on their material climate risks and makes clear the actions major Canadian investors will take to advance the global pursuit of net zero. 
In adding their names, investors also signalled their  
support for a distinctly Canadian transition to net zero that leaves no worker or community behind, is informed by Indigenous perspectives and supports Indigenous economic opportunities.
Mackenzie was also a founding participant in Climate 
Engagement Canada , a Canadian-focused initiative driving 
dialogue with industry to promote a just transition to a  
net-zero economy.
Sustainable investing approach
RESPONSIBLE  
INVESTING
Integrates ESG factors 
into the investment process to mitigate risk
IG and Mackenzie are 
signatories of :
IGM controversial weapon 
exclusions
IPC security-specific 
exclusionsInvests in companies or issuers with positive ESG practices expected to enhance overall valueTargets specific ESG macro-trends that generate competitive returnsTargets ESG challenges or opportunities while generating financial returns
Mackenzie Global Sustainable 
Balanced Fund
Mackenzie Global Sustainable 
Bond Fund 
Mackenzie Global Sustainable Bond ETFMackenzie Betterworld Global 
Equity Fund 
Mackenzie Betterworld Canadian 
Equity Fund
IG Mackenzie Betterworld SRI FundIG Mackenzie Betterworld SRI ClassIPC Essentials ESG Balanced PortfolioIPC Private Wealth Fundamentals ESG 
PortfoliosSustainable 
coreSustainable thematic
Mackenzie Greenchip Global 
Environmental All Cap Fund
Mackenzie Greenchip Global 
Environmental Balanced Fund
Mackenzie Global Green 
Bond Fund
IG Climate Action Portfolios Sustainable 
impact
Mackenzie Global 
Women’s Leadership Fund
Mackenzie Global 
Women’s Leadership ETF
ESG INTEGRATION, ENGAGEMENT, PROXY VOTINGMITIGATE ESG RISK MAXIMIZE ESG 
POSITIVE IMPACT
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIXSUSTAINABLE INVESTING SOLUTIONS26
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportIG’s commitment to sustainable investing includes being a member 
of Canada’s Responsible Investment Association (RIA), and a 
signatory to the PRI, the TCFD and Climate Action 100+ . We partner 
exclusively with asset managers who are also signatories to the PRI and share our commitment to sustainable investing through:
• ESG integration – Sub-advisors must assess material ESG factors in investment analysis and decision making, in order to better understand risks and identify opportunities that maximize investment performance 
• Active ownership – Sub-advisors are expected to be active owners through proxy voting and engagement, as a way of influencing and improving corporate ESG behaviour 
• Collaboration efforts – We and our sub-advisors collaborate 
with like-minded organizations to promote and advance the sustainable investing landscape 
Sub-advisors are selected through a rigorous due diligence process that includes evaluation of their ESG integration and active ownership practices. The ongoing oversight process includes an annual comprehensive sustainable investing assessment and a thorough competencies review. 
In early 2022, we enhanced our expectations of sub-advisors 
through a formal letter encouraging them to support the Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero  (GFANZ) by joining the 
Net Zero Asset Managers Initiative, and to become signatories to both the TCFD and 
Climate Action 100+ . The letter will be 
followed by meetings with the sub-advisors to talk about their climate action commitments and strategies.IG CLIMATE ACTION PORTFOLIOS
The IG Climate Action Portfolios are a suite of four diversified 
managed solutions developed with leading global asset managers, sub-advised by Mackenzie Investments, as a new way for clients to support the world’s transition to net-zero emissions and take advantage of the growth opportunities therein. Launched in late October 2021, the Portfolios have been very well received.The Portfolios invest in equity and fixed-income securities that are believed to reduce the risks, and/or are expected to benefit from the opportunities, associated with climate change or the transition to a net-zero emissions global economy.
Coincident with the launch, IG University, our learning institute 
for IG advisors, rolled out training on the Portfolios, climate change and sustainable investing in general, which will be expanded in the coming year to further equip our people to educate and advise their clients. 
ALIGNED WITH NET ZERO
Like the global net-zero initiative, IG Climate Action Portfolios will aim to balance the greenhouse gases emitted by 
their underlying investments with the amount they remove from the atmosphere using carbon offsets.
1
2
3
4Investment strategy
IG Climate Action Portfolios are designed 
to provide exposure to one or more of the following types of climate-related approaches:Offsetting strategy
The portfolios will seek to reduce 
the greenhouse gas emissions from the underlying investments.Portfolios 
aligned with net zero
Best-in-class investing:  In companies with 
leading climate policies and practices.
Help fuel the transition:  Invest in companies 
or products that are helping advance the 
green transition.
Bypass GHG emisions:  Avoid high 
greenhouse gas emitters and invest in funds 
that focus on lower-carbon intensive sectors.
Active climate stewardship: Engage with 
company management and utilize proxy voting or prioritize climate policies and outcomes.How it works
Evaluate portfolio 
for any residual greenhouse gas emissionsPurchase and retire carbon credits to reduce residual emissionsCarbon 
credit
+CO2 -CO2
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX27
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportAt IPC, we recognize the growing importance 
of integrating ESG factors into investment processes to deliver sustainable long-term returns. This is particularly true for macro themes like climate change, which will have potentially significant impacts on all assets in the future. As such, sustainable investing for us is primarily about managing risk, rather than imposing one social theme or belief on investors. 
Our approach to sustainable investing focuses 
on three pillars, which are applied across all of our actively managed solutions and which work together to enhance the sustainable characteristics of our sub-advised investment mandates and maintain and improve long-term outcomes for the benefit of our clients:
• Active ownership through proxy voting and corporate engagement
• Exclusion of companies that contravene ESG standards or whose operations involve anti-social business activities (e.g., controversial weapons, thermal coal mining and tobacco) ESG integration practices of sub-advisors• We evaluate ESG integration practices in selecting new sub-advisors and in the regular due diligence process for existing sub-advisors
We use the services of ISS, a leading provider of corporate governance and sustainable investment solutions, for proxy voting and engagement. ISS analysts make recommendations on proxy voting to promote ESG policies, which we and our sub-advisors follow in casting our votes. Through ISS, we participate in a pooled engagement service that targets companies that have identifiable ESG risks in their business or that are laggards in their industry on key ESG themes. 
We also offer dedicated ESG-focused 
solutions for both our retail and high net worth clients who want to align their portfolios with their principles.As an asset manager, Mackenzie is on a mission to make it easy for investors and advisors to integrate sustainable solutions into their portfolios. With efforts spearheaded by our Sustainability Centre of Excellence, we’re advancing our sustainable investing capabilities, culture and impact by focusing on three areas: 
• Strengthening our corporate and investment management sustainability practices
• Meeting investors’ growing demand for sustainable solutions with in-house investment and reporting capabilities
• Solidifying our role with consistent advocacy, thought leadership and disclosure founded on ESG research and insights
Five key principles guide our approach to sustainable investing:
1Creating value: We prioritize creating value for our clients by achieving compelling 
long-term, risk-adjusted returns across a diversified investment shelf.
2Integrating material ESG factors:  Our investment boutiques integrate factors 
material to risk and return, including material ESG factors, which present financial risks and opportunities.
3Engaging companies and issuers: As long-term investors and stewards of 
capital, we believe in company and debt issuer engagement and proxy voting to promote good governance and management of material ESG issues. We prefer constructive engagement over divestment.
4Aligning values:  We offer sustainable core, thematic and impact solutions that 
aim to generate returns and meet the demands of clients who want to align their investments with their values.
5Prioritizing advocacy: We believe that by aligning our internal and external 
efforts, we can make a greater impact on building a more sustainable future. We prioritize good governance, climate action, and diversity, equity and inclusion.
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX
28
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportMackenzie Investments  (continued)
2021 was a year of significant progress for Mackenzie, which  
saw assets under management in sustainable solutions rise to $4.3 billion by year-end 2021, from $1.65 billion in 2020. In addition, more than 7,000 advisors are now using our sustainable products as part of their clients’ portfolios.
Other achievements included the following:
• Updating and simplifying our Sustainable Investing Policy
• Releasing our first stewardship report
• Introducing a new investment boutique, Mackenzie 
Betterworld, which invests in companies that are making a positive impact on people and the planet
• Launching several sustainable solutions, including the Mackenzie Global Green Bond Fund and the Mackenzie Global Sustainable Bond Fund and ETF
• Signing on to industry climate commitments (see page 12 )  
and advancing our firm-wide climate action plan, by identifying the 100 companies in our retail equity portfolios that account for 70% of our retail equity carbon intensity,  and developing a strategy to engage with these companies  to drive meaningful progress
• Providing foundational climate training across our  
investment teams
LEARN MORE  » 
 2021 Mackenzie Sustainable 
Investing ReportWEIGHTED AVERAGE CARBON INTENSITY (WACI)
Following TCFD recommendations, Mackenzie performed its 
first comprehensive measurement of GHG emissions in its 
equities in 2021. While we believe that data quality will continue to improve in the coming years, we feel that tracking and disclosing the data available to us at this time is an important first step toward improving our transparency and decarbonizing our portfolios. We remain committed to improving our data quality over time and are collaborating with peers to establish consistent rules for measuring and disclosing the GHG 
emissions associated with our investment activities.With representation from across Mackenzie’s investment boutiques, a climate champions working group was established to manage climate risk, primarily through engagement with our highest emitters in Canada, where we have the bulk of our assets and financed emissions. Going forward, this group will work to deliver on Mackenzie’s commitment to the Net Zero Asset Managers initiative, including target setting, which will take place later in 2022. 
The chart below shows Mackenzie’s weighted average carbon 
intensity versus benchmarks, broken down over different regions.
2021 Inaugural  
Sustainable  Investing  Report
WACI (tCO2e/mUSD revenue)
050100150200250300350400
CAD Equities CAD 
BenchmarkUS
BenchmarkEM and Frontier 
Market EquitiesEM/FM
BenchmarkInternational 
EquitiesInternational 
BenchmarkUS Equities289338
113126355367
133 138
Includes Scope 1 and 2 emissions at Dec. 31, 2021 for: Mackenzie managed equities in Canada (CAD 52bn), US (CAD 52bn), EM/frontiers markets (CAD 5bn) and 
International (CAD 22bn). 
Benchmarks: CAD Equity vs. S&PTSX Composite Index, US Equity vs. Solactive US Large Cap Index, EM and Frontier Market Equity vs. Solactive GBS Emerging Markets 
Lrg & Mid Cap Index, International Equity vs. Solactive GBS Dev Mkts ex NA Lrg & Mid Cap Index.
Source: S&P Global Trucost, a leader in carbon and environmental data and risk analysis. Trucost uses a variety of publicly disclosed sources, such as company 
financial reports. In the absence of disclosures, Trucost’s environmentally extended input-output model combines industry-specific environmental impact data with quantitative macroeconomic data on the flow of goods and services between different sectors in the economy to estimate carbon emissions.
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX29
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportAccelerating  DE&I in finance
Two years marked by striking social challenges have made us acutely aware of the inequalities 
that exist in our world and the barriers that hold too many people back. The need for change has never been more evident, and companies like ours can make a difference. We believe one of the greatest contributions we can make is through sustained action on DE&I within our company, our investments, our industry and our communities. 
We aim to use our voice to advance DE&I across the financial 
services industry by creating an inclusive culture where difference is embraced and leveraged, and our connections to each other and to our clients, stakeholders and communities are strengthened.
In line with our ambition, we endorsed the Canadian Truth and 
Reconciliation Commission’s Call to Action #92, which calls on companies to ensure that Indigenous Peoples are included in and benefit from their business activities. IG signed the Winnipeg Indigenous Accord in 2017 and has reported on its goals and progress  each year since. We have also committed to the UN’s Women’s Empowerment Principles, and all of our operating companies have made public pledges to end anti-Black systemic racism by signing on to the BlackNorth Initiative.
In 2021, we hired our first VP, Diversity, Equity and Inclusion 
to refresh, expand and implement our strategy across all of IGM. We also required that all IGM people leaders have a DE&I objective as part of their annual short-term incentive objectives.
For information on Board diversity, please see our Management 
Proxy Circular . We also promote DE&I in our investment 
processes and products. See Advancing sustainable investing, page 24 , to learn more.Our DE&I strategy is focused on three pillars as follows:
Inclusive workplace
Nurturing a culture of allyship and  
inclusive leadership by:
• Embedding a DE&I lens into everything we do
•  Expanding DE&I awareness, capabilities and behaviours
•  Supporting business resource groups (BRGs) to deliver 
on their goals
Diverse talent
Attracting, developing, retaining and accelerating 
diverse talent by: 
• Driving accountability for diverse representation
• Engaging with external partners to access talent
• Collaborating with IGM leaders on talent initiatives
 Clients and marketplace
Leveraging DE&I in the marketplace by:
•  Building synergy with IGM’s sustainable investing and 
corporate sustainability efforts
•  Amplifying our social media voice and thought leadership
• Pursuing partnerships that enhance our strategy
Who has responsibility Our Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Centre of Excellence 
partners with leaders to accelerate IGM’s mandate to integrate DE&I into all business and people practices, and works directly with the business to deliver programs and initiatives that accelerate inclusive practices and enable business success.RELATED PUBLICATIONS »  
Code of Conduct
Workplace Harassment and  
Discrimination Prevention Policy
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX30DE&I governance 
Our newly adopted DE&I governance structure involves people at all levels of the organization,  
helping us set a clear tone from the top and encouraging local and grassroots efforts.
Average Tenure
Executive Council
Sets the tone from the top and 
advocates for inclusionMembers: 
Our most senior executives
Business Council
Activates DE&I agenda  
across functionsMembers: Senior leaders whose functions have accountability for executing DE&I strategic plans
DE&I Centre of Excellence
Provides subject matter expertise 
and develops and executes strategyMembers: 
IGM DE&I team and field DE&I leaders and business leadersDiversity  
champions
Model our 
values and unite us around our shared purpose
Members: 
National and field DE&I advisory groups, Human Resources business partners, and business resource groupsAll IGM people leaders have 
a DE&I objective as part 
of their annual short-term incentive objectives.IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability Report
IN 2021, WE UPDATED OUR DE&I TARGETS TO:
35%  women VP+ by 2025 (40% AVP+ by 2025)
3.5%  Black executive representation by 2025
3% Indigenous workforce by 2025
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX31
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportInclusive workplace 
We’re committed to building a culture where everyone thrives and is deeply aware of the role they can play in being an ally and supporter of inclusion.
Business resource groups
Elevating the important role our diverse communities play in 
supporting strategic business priorities, we created business resource groups (BRGs) to replace our more informal Partners in Action teams.
BRGs are volunteer employee-led groups with a common goal of 
cultivating an inclusive work environment through a focus on career development, mentoring, networking and business impact. We created a BRG playbook to support their success and help them align their goals and activities with our overall DE&I and those of other BRGs. BRG co-chairs and executive sponsors are able to allocate 5–10% of their bonusable performance objectives toward this work.Inclusive practices
In June, concurrent with many Pride celebrations across the country, 
we invited all employees to start adding their pronouns to their email signatures as a way of showing their support for individuals with diverse gender identities and gender expressions. 
We later launched a French Language Policy to ensure, for example, 
that English and French communications to any audience that includes Québec stakeholders be distributed at the same time and through the same or comparable medium. All employees are invited to enter their preference of either English or French in our central database so that all company communications they receive are in their preferred language.
TRAINING AND AWARENESS EVENTS IN 2021
330
people attended Advancing Allyship 
and Anti-racism workshops4
Allyship and Indigenous  
Reconciliation webinars10+
education and  
engagement events
65%
of IGM employees completed  
inclusive behaviours training5
virtual Kairos blanket exercises to deepen understanding of the historic and contemporary relationships between Indigenous and non-Indigenous  
peoples in Canada 
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX32
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportDiverse talent 
We’re taking intentional steps to increase diversity at all levels of our organization.
Talent acquisition 
Our talent acquisition team continued to embed DE&I into recruiting 
practices through initiatives such as:
• Ensuring inclusive language in job postings with the help of special software and adding candidate diversity self-identification to the job application process
• Conducting interview training for leaders and hiring managers to reduce bias
• Creating new partnerships and deepening existing relationships with organizations serving diverse communities
• Connecting with students in Canadian universities and colleges, hosting 10 campus events during the 2020–2021 campus season and 23 in the 2021–2022 season Building a pipeline of talent
In Winnipeg, we created a new role of Senior Talent Advisor, 
Indigenous Relations, to help build a pipeline of strong Indigenous talent across IGM. The person hired to this role will work closely with our recruiting and DE&I teams to support our business and increase our presence in the Indigenous space.
The Onyx Initiative helps Black students and recent graduates 
access placements, mentorships and coaching. Our partnership enables us to advertise jobs with them, attend their annual career night, host information sessions and provide mentors.
Accelerate Her Future  specializes in developing and connecting 
Black, Indigenous and women of colour with employers. We provide 
mentors and have access to the organization’s events and annual resume book.Gender pay equity
We are committed to the principles of pay equity for employees and 
are compliant with all provincial and federal pay equity legislation. In 2021, we retained a third-party firm to conduct a gender pay audit among our senior managers and above to identify any pay disparities that may exist between men and women engaged in work of similar value. The results showed that IGM did not have a statistically significant gender pay gap. In the few cases where differences existed, we took action to close the gap. 
We created a new role 
of Senior Talent Advisor, 
Indigenous Relations, to help build a pipeline of strong Indigenous talent across IGM.EXPANDING OUR DE&I METRICS
Understanding the demographic make-up of our workforce is 
critical for setting representation targets and tracking our progress. We launched the Count me in! voluntary self-ID initiative in late 2020 to gather data on many aspects of our employees’ identity. The data collected through our talent management system isconfidential. Thus far, over half of our employees have provided their information, and we are encouraging greater participation to make the data more useful for programming. We also now require new hires to  self-identify as part of their onboarding process.
22%
Racialized3.89 %
Black1.11 %
Indigenous1.25 % 
Disability1.49 %
2SLGBTQIA+
* Based on the 57% of employees who self-identified.
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX33
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportClients and marketplace
To better represent the clients and communities we serve, we’re working with partners to infuse DE&I 
into our products and services and into the finance industry as a whole.
Partners on our journey
External partnerships are vital for accelerating DE&I in finance. We 
have both longstanding and fairly new partners who help guide our strategy, reinforce the transformative work we’re looking to tackle, and contribute to driving DE&I more broadly within our industry and communities. Here are some of these partners: Community platform
Mackenzie Together  is a newly launched community platform 
dedicated to creating a more inclusive investment industry by 
advancing women through education, financial security and career opportunities. The platform features personal stories from women in leadership, details about products like the Mackenzie Global Women’s Leadership Fund that promote female empowerment, and more. Mackenzie is also creating training modules to help advisors better meet women’s financial needs and help companies build their roster of female advisors and clientele.
In partnership with 
Wealthsimple, Mackenzie 
launched Canada’s first Shariah-compliant ETF in 2021.
WOMEN’S FUNDS  »
Mackenzie Global Women’s Leadership 
Fund and ETF are aimed at driving social and governance change through a focus on companies that promote gender diversity and the benefits of women in leadership.
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX
34
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability Report
Responsible  
business  
practices Underpinning everything 
we do is a commitment to responsible business practices. We continually invest in the capabilities needed to ensure that we’re meeting our responsibilities and creating value for today, and for a sustainable future.
» Corporate governance
» Ethics and compliance» Risk management» Information security and privacy» Talent and culture» Community support» Environmental footprint
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX35
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability Report2021  highlights
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
33%
of Board positions held by women
Say on Pay
advisory vote implemented in 2022
  
Continued to implement the recommendations 
across IGMETHICS, RISK MANAGEMENT,  
INFORMATION SECURITY
Enhanced IS security training
with a focus on Essentials Beyond the Office  for 
our new hybrid work model
100%
of employees agree to Code of Conduct annually
Increased
focus on ESG considerations in  
purchasing decisions
Climate training 
for executives across IGM on climate risk  
and its business impacts COMMUNITY SUPPORT
Imagine a Canada 
Sponsored the National Centre for Truth and Reconciliation’s national art and leadership program that inspires youth to envision and aspire for reconciliation
$9.2M
contributed to community and charitable organizations across Canada
TALENT AND CULTURE
79%
overall employee engagement index
 IG recognized as one of the  
Top 100 Employers in Canada
Mackenzie and IPC among  
Greater Toronto’s Top EmployersENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT
Carbon neutral
commitment for 2022 in operations including  
facilities and travel
132 tonnes
(or 26 elephants) of office furniture and  
equipment donated to non-profit sIGM Financial 2021 Sustainability Report
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX
36
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability Report
 IntroductionCorporate  governance
We believe that strong governance practices ensure the accountability, transparency and  
responsible decision making needed to support our business and to be a purpose-led industry  
leader over the long-term. 
The effectiveness of our corporate governance starts with our 
Board of Directors, which provides oversight of the business so we grow responsibly. The Board has established robust governance structures, processes and practices to perform its duties effectively. 
The Board has put in place structures and procedures to  
ensure its independence from management and to ensure 
that conflicts of interest between our company and any related entities, including our company’s majority shareholder, are  dealt with appropriately.
In our 2022 Management Proxy Circular, we significantly  
increased disclosure on our executive compensation practices,  
and provided additional information to inform shareholders’  Say on Pay advisory vote.Responsible ownership
We operate through a number of different businesses. When considering potential acquisitions, we conduct a robust business assessment to identify the potential long-term risks and opportunities of the investment. ESG factors are considered in  
this process. 
We oversee our investments through an active ownership approach 
where our executives sit on the boards of directors of the companies we control or in which we strategically invest. Through regular interaction with the senior management and boards of these companies, we engage on ESG issues to ensure that our investments are being managed in a manner consistent with IGM’s responsible management philosophy and Corporate Sustainability Statement.
RELATED PUBLICATIONS  » 
Management Proxy Circular
Statement of Corporate Governance PracticesCorporate Sustainability StatementBoard Committee ChartersOur TCFD Report, page 81 , outlines our climate 
governance practices.
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX37
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportSustainability governance
Our Board has approved a Corporate Sustainability Statement , which 
formalizes our longstanding commitment to corporate sustainability. 
The Board monitors implementation of the policy and our corporate sustainability strategy, and discusses corporate sustainability plans and ESG issues at least annually. 
In 2021, the Board was engaged by management in the following 
sustainability-related topics:
• Annual report on sustainability strategy and progress
• Update on emerging ESG issues, regulations and reporting
• Update on TCFD implementation, IGM Climate Position Statement
• Development of IGM’s Purpose Statement
• Discussions on sustainable investing, DE&I and climate through regular business reporting 
Our Sustainability Committee, consisting of the most senior executives – including IGM’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO), who is also a Board Director – is responsible for ensuring the implementation of the Board’s Corporate Sustainability Statement and our sustainability strategy, as well as the approval of annual reporting. The Committee reports to the Board annually or as necessary where critical concerns arise, and no such concerns were raised in 2021. 
Our Executive Risk Management Committee is responsible for 
oversight of the risk management process, including environmental and social risks. 
The leaders of our various business units have primary ownership 
and accountability for identifying and managing ESG risks and opportunities across their businesses. Supporting the Sustainability Committee is a Corporate Sustainability Team responsible for reporting, stakeholder engagement and collaborating with leaders across the business to advance ESG-related initiatives. Team members also meet regularly with colleagues across the Power Corporation of Canada group of companies to align commitments and share knowledge on best practices. 
Also advancing sustainability efforts across our business are a 
number of committees with focused environmental and social mandates. Examples of the current supporting committees are: 
• Operating company sustainable investing committees, which consist of cross-functional leaders working to advance ESG incorporation into the products and services of the individual operating companies 
• IGM DE&I Executive Council, which provides leadership  and oversight regarding our internal DE&I focus and  Board interests 
• IGM Green Council, which oversees continuous environmental improvements to business operations within our facilities, travel and procurement 
• TCFD Working Group, which leads our implementation of the recommendations of the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
• Business resource groups (BRGs) are volunteer employee-led groups centred around a common sustainability goal, actioned through a focus on career development, mentoring, networking and business impactCORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE
EMPLOYEE-LED BUSINESS RESOURCE
GROUPS (DE&I, GREEN)Power/
Great-West
Lifeco/
IGM Financial
Working
GroupCorporate
Sustainability
Management
Team   
 All IGM
Business
Leaders 
 
 
TCFD Working 
Group DE&I Council
Green CouncilSustainable
Investing
Committees
  BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND BOARD COMMITTEES
CEO OF ENTITYIGM SUSTAINABILITY
COMMITTEE
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX38
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportBoard and executive diversity 
The Board and Senior Management DE&I Policy includes  
provisions relating to the process used to identify and evaluate individuals for both Board and executive management roles. Under the Policy, diversity includes, but is not limited to, business experience, geography, age, gender, disability, race, ethnicity and sexual orientation.
Our Board had a diversity objective of at least 30% both women and 
men directors by calendar-end 2021 – which was surpassed.
IGM also had a target for women to hold 35% of VP+ roles by the 
end of 2021. While we did not meet this target, increasing the representation of women and Black, Indigenous and other racialized communities in our leadership is a priority in our corporate strategy. To drive continued progress, we have updated our leadership targets to 35% women at the VP+ level by 2025 (including 40% at the AVP+ level) and 3.5% Black executive representation by 2025.
ESG in leadership objectives 
All IGM people leaders have a DE&I objective as part of their annual short-term incentive objectives. See DE&I section  for  
more information. As we advance our implementation of the TCFD recommendations, climate-related objectives are increasingly being assigned to specific departments and roles. See our CDP Report  for more information and DE&I section for 
more information.IN 2021, WE UPDATED OUR LEADERSHIP DE&I TARGETS TO:
35%
women VP+ by 
2025 (40% AVP+ by 2025)3.5%
Black executive  
representation by 2025Our Board had a diversity 
objective of at least 30% both 
women and men directors by calendar-end 2021 – which was surpassed.
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX39
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportEthics  and compliance
As a financial services company, we have legal and ethical responsibilities to act in our clients’ best interests. Moreover, we see exemplary business conduct  
as essential for upholding our company’s reputation and maintaining public and investor trust in our industry and in the Canadian financial system.
We have robust compliance policies, programs and controls across 
our operating companies, which are regularly assessed and updated to keep pace with changes in business models, client expectations and regulatory requirements. In developing new products and services, we conduct thorough reviews to ensure an in-depth understanding of the related legal and client-focused obligations  and our capacity to fulfil them. 
Key policies include the following:
• Our Code of Conduct (Code) is the foundation for all of our 
activities and our guide for ethical conduct. The Code is distributed annually to all of our directors, officers and employees for review and acknowledgement. Employees also complete annual compliance training to remind them of requirements under our privacy, anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing, anti-corruption and anti-bribery, and whistleblower policies. At the end of the training, they must acknowledge that they understand their obligations and agree to comply with them.• Along with the Code, our Advisor Code of Conduct and  Supplier Code of Conduct have similar provisions and expectations regarding ethical conduct for our advisors and suppliers, respectively.
• Our Whistleblower Policy encourages employees and others to report suspected violations of laws, regulations, the Code or  IGM policies. The policy outlines a confidential process for raising concerns, including a 24/7 whistleblower hotline and website which can be used anonymously, and a detailed process for investigations where warranted. 
Our Conflicts of Interest Committee has a mandate to educate and foster a shared understanding of what gives rise to a conflict of interest within the IGM business models, to consider affiliate conflicts, to promote a consistent approach to managing conflicts of interest across IGM in the best interest of clients, and to support the maintenance of conflicts of interest inventories. In 2021, IGM and its relevant subsidiaries enhanced Conflicts of Interest Policies to align with the Canadian Securities Administrators’ Reforms to Enhance the Client-Registrant Relationship (Client Focused Reforms) regulations for all registrants. In 2021, IGM and its relevant subsidiaries 
enhanced Conflicts of Interest Policies to align with the Canadian Securities Administrators’ Reforms to Enhance  
the Client-Registrant Relationship  
(Client Focused Reforms) regulations  
for all registrants.
RELATED PUBLICATIONS  » 
Code of Conduct
Supplier Code of ConductWhistleblower PolicyAnti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery PolicyPrivacy PolicyLobbying PolicyAnti-Money Laundering Policy
Who has responsibility Our Chief Compliance Officer has overall responsibility for compliance matters and provides regular reports to the IGM Audit 
Committee. Separate boards and committees at the operating company-level also oversee investment management and distribution compliance of our funds.
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX40
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportAnti-money laundering and  
anti-terrorist financing 
Our enterprise-wide anti-money laundering (AML) and anti-terrorist 
financing (ATF) compliance program is designed to detect, deter and report money laundering and terrorist financing. The overarching AML Policy applies to all subsidiary companies and ensures that the most stringent of either Canadian or local AML regulations apply to our global subsidiaries. 
Elements of our AML/ATF compliance program include  
the following: 
• Designation of a Chief Anti-Money Laundering Officer 
• Risk assessments of each IGM company, including an assessment of affiliate risk 
• Monitoring and reporting related to suspicious transactions, large cash transactions, terrorist property and sanctions screening 
• Training delivered to new hires and annually to all employees: topics include our key AML/ATF obligations; how we could be vulnerable to such activities; employees’ role in preventing, detecting and deterring such activities; and how to report suspicious activity
• Independent effectiveness reviews of our program, its policies and procedures, risk assessments, training and recordkeeping 
The effectiveness of our program is tested regularly to ensure compliance with applicable regulations and guidance set out by the Financial Transactions and Reports Analysis Centre of Canada (FINTRAC) and other applicable regulatory bodies.
In 2021, we updated our program in response to regulatory changes 
and enhanced our AML/ATF technology to better support it.Political involvement and lobbying
Our Code of Conduct, our Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Policy and our Lobbying Policy describe our positions on political contributions and lobbying. 
Our company’s money, assets, property or other things of value 
may not be contributed, loaned or made available to any candidate, party or political committee. While we may, from time to time, make charitable contributions, under no circumstances should charitable contributions be made in an attempt to influence any decision or obtain an advantage. In addition, while we support and respect employees’ right to participate in the political process, they are prohibited from using company funds, goods or services as contributions to, or for the benefit of, candidates or political organizations in Canada.
The Lobbying Policy establishes a framework for compliance with 
lobbying legal requirements and outlines employee and Board activity and approval processes.
Anti-corruption and anti-bribery
While local standards and practices may vary as to what constitutes bribery, we maintain a high standard, outlined in our Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Policy, which can be summarized as follows: employees may not provide (or offer to provide), directly or indirectly, anything of value to anyone to get business or retain business, to obtain a commercial advantage, or to receive favoured treatment, anywhere in the world.
All of our operations are assessed annually for risks related to 
corruption, and no critical concerns were raised in 2021. EMPLOYEE ANNUAL TRAINING ADDRESSES  
KEY OBLIGATIONS UNDER OUR AML/ATF PROGRAM
KEY 
OBLIGATIONSSuspicious and attempted suspicious 
transaction reporting
Business relationship and client due 
diligence record keeping
Politically Exposed (foreign and domestic) 
Person (PEP) and Head of International Organization (HIO) determinationsAscertaining client identity, beneﬁcial 
ownership and third-party determinations
Risk assessmentsTerrorist property reporting
The Lobbying Policy establishes a 
framework for compliance with lobbying 
legal requirements and outlines employee and Board activity and approval processes.
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX41
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability Report
Financial advisors affiliated with IG 
and IPC acquire a deep understanding 
of clients’ financial and personal situations to design investment portfolios that will help their clients meet their financial goals.Responsible marketing and sales 
IGM operating companies are subject to securities legislation 
addressing marketing and sales communications. 
Sales communications related to investment funds are regulated by 
National Instrument 81-102 , which has prescriptive rules about when 
and how performance data can be included, required disclosures and warnings, advertisements and more. The guiding principle is that all communications must provide full, true and plain disclosure, with nothing misleading. Overly predictive language, unsubstantiated claims and unfair comparisons are not permitted. In addition, every fund facts document delivered to investors prior to purchasing  
a fund must show the fund’s best and worst three-month returns. To promote compliance, our Legal team has produced a marketing materials guidance booklet for our Marketing teams, provides training to these teams, and reviews and approves all materials before they can be used. 
Our securities dealers are bound by similar advertising and sales 
communication rules set out by the Mutual Fund Dealers Association of Canada and the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization  of Canada. 
National Instrument 81-105 regulates investment fund sales practices 
and related compensation arrangements, and we have established sales practices, policies and procedures to ensure compliance with it.Knowing our clients and products
Financial advisors affiliated with IG and IPC acquire a deep understanding of clients’ financial and personal situations to design investment portfolios that will help their clients meet their financial goals. Their process follows strict, internal KYC and KYP rules to ensure the suitability of the investments they recommend. Mackenzie distributes its products through third-party advisors and dealers who are subject to their internal rules. 
With the Client Focused Reforms coming into full effect at the end of 
2021, we ensured that we were ready. These reforms require firms to put clients first when discharging their KYC, KYP and suitability obligations; address material conflicts of interest in the best interest of the client; and do more to clarify for clients what they should expect from their dealers and advisors.WE PROVIDE KEY EXECUTIVE  
LEADERSHIP TO SUPPORT  
CANADA’S FINANCIAL SERVICES 
SECTOR THROUGH ROLES IN MANY ORGANIZATIONS, INCLUDING:
Canadian Coalition for Good Governance
Chambre de la sécurité financièreConseil des fonds d’investissement du Québec (CFIQ)Fundserv Inc.Investment Funds Institute of CanadaInvestment Industry Association of CanadaInvestment Industry Regulatory Organization of CanadaMutual Fund Dealers Association of CanadaOmbudsman for Banking Services and InvestmentsOntario Securities Commission
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX42
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportRisk management
Our company is exposed to a variety of risks that are inherent in our business activities – some are 
traditional financial risks while others, like climate change and cyber security, are newer and growing. Our ability to manage these risks is key to our ongoing success.
Our risk management approach is carried out through our Enterprise 
Risk Management (ERM) Framework, which includes five core elements: risk governance, risk appetite, risk principles, a defined risk management process and our risk management culture. The ERM Framework is established under our ERM Policy, which is approved by the Executive Risk Management Committee, and aligns with industry best practices, including the COSO Enterprise Risk Management and Internal Control-Integrated Frameworks. 
Significant risks that may adversely affect our ability to achieve 
our strategic and business objectives are identified and assessed through our ongoing risk management process, using a consistent methodology across our organizations and business units. The ERM department promotes and coordinates communication and consultation to support effective risk management and escalation.  The ERM department regularly reports on the results of risk assessments and on the assessment process to the executive and Board risk committees.
We look to continually improve our risk management practices. In 
2021, this included creating a second-line fraud risk committee to strengthen oversight of fraud risks and related controls, allegations and investigations across the company. 
We commissioned an independent review of IGM’s ERM program, 
with benchmarking to industry good practices and peers. The review confirmed the strong ERM foundation in place at IGM and recommended steps we could take to mature the ERM function and strategy, and increase their profile within the company. Many of the recommendations will be implemented in 2022. WELCOMING OUR NEW CHIEF RISK OFFICER
In April 2022, we hired our first 
Chief Risk Officer to lead IGM’s enterprise risk management, sustainability and internal audit programs. The integration of sustainability and risk marks an important evolution for IGM given the growing importance of ESG risks and opportunities to our business and stakeholders.
Who has responsibility The Risk Committee of the Board provides primary oversight of the ERM Framework. Our Executive Risk Management 
Committee is responsible for management oversight of the Framework and is accountable to the Board’s Risk Committee.
Additional oversight is provided by the ERM department, Compliance group and Internal Audit department. The CEOs of the 
operating companies have overall responsibility for overseeing risk management of their respective companies. 
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIXKelly Hepher
EVP & Chief Risk Officer43
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportRISK GOVERNANCE
Board of Directors
Risk CommitteeSpecific risk oversight 
responsibilities
IGM Risk Management Committee
(CEOs – IGM, IG and Mackenzie, CFO, General Counsel, COO, EVP Chief Strategy & Corporate 
Development Officer, CHRO)
CEO of Entity (IG, Mackenzie, IPC)Management oversight  
of ERM Program
ERM oversight of specific 
entities 
Leaders of 
business 
areasRisk oversight 
functions
ERM  
Department
ComplianceERM process  
support
Financial Risk 
Management  
(FRM) Committee
Operational Risk 
Management (ORM) 
Committee
Fraud Risk CommitteeInternal 
auditLines of defence
1st Line
Primary responsibility2nd Line
Oversight & support3rd Line
AssuranceResponsibility for risk management 
is assigned using the “three lines 
of defence” model, with the first line reflecting the business units having primary responsibility for risk management, supported by second-line risk management functions and a third-line internal audit function providing assurance and validation of the design and effectiveness of the ERM Framework.
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX44
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportManaging environmental and social risks 
Environmental and social risks are identified as one of the  
five categories of risks within our ERM Framework. They include environmental risks related to climate change, biodiversity, pollution, waste and the unsustainable use of energy, water and other resources; they also include social risks related to human rights, Indigenous reconciliation, labour standards, diversity, equity and inclusion, and community impacts. We are increasingly focused on the transverse relationship of these risks to other material risks. 
The Board’s risk management oversight includes ensuring that 
material environmental and social risks are appropriately identified, managed and monitored. Our Executive Risk Management Committee provides oversight of the risk management process. Other management committees provide oversight of specific risks, including the Sustainability Committee, which is responsible for ensuring implementation of policy and strategy, establishing goals and initiatives, measuring progress, and approving annual reporting for ESG matters.
See page 81  of our Annual Report for more information on our 
management of environmental and social risks.We are further integrating climate change risk and opportunities 
into our business by implementing the TCFD recommendations. For details, see our TCFD disclosure on page 81 .Responsible purchasing 
Responsible purchasing is one of the ways that we mitigate our 
E&S risks. We view our suppliers as partners who can help us advance our sustainability practices and uphold our high standards of responsible and ethical business conduct. We understand that risks in our supply chain could be material and are committed to enhancing our incorporation of ESG analysis into our purchasing. Our Supplier Code of Conduct was put in place to assist with addressing these risks. 
In 2021, we added 11 questions related to suppliers’ sustainability 
practices to our standard request for proposal (RFP) template. The questions cover topics such as a company’s policies and disclosures, targets and initiatives to reduce its carbon footprint, fair labour practices, whether it is certified as a diverse supplier, and whether it has been subject to any human rights or sexual harassment allegations or rulings against it.
We are increasing our focus in this area and will continue to build out 
our processes and policies. 
SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT IN ACTION
We began using our new RFP template in select procurement 
initiatives in 2021 – for example, when looking for a coffee services provider who could supply our offices with fair trade coffee. Sustainability was the main component of the RFP, so we expected all potential vendors to answer our standard sustainability questions and some additional ones related to their use of recycled materials, how they were reducing their environmental impact, and other ESG practices. 
The firm ultimately selected showed a strong commitment to 
sustainability in its operations, partnerships and future plans. Our contract with this vendor includes service-level agreements supporting the ESG requirements. 
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX45
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportInformation  security and privacy
As our company becomes more digital, our controls, policies and standards are also evolving to maintain the high levels of care our 
clients rightfully expect and to protect our business from risks that could compromise confidential information or lead to financial loss, reputational damage or regulatory actions. 
We use systems and technology extensively to support our business 
operations and the client and financial advisor experience. To manage the associated cyber security risks, we have a broad range of company-wide policies, training, standards and governance processes. We also purchase cyber security insurance coverage through our corporate insurance program.
Our cyber security management framework and capabilities are 
benchmarked to industry best practices, including the National Institute of Standards and Technology Cybersecurity Framework (NIST-CSF). Key technology policies include our Acceptable Use of Technology, which outlines our expectations for all employees, advisors and contractors with respect to the proper use of technology and intellectual property and the protection of data in all of its forms across the complete information lifecycle. We invest in security technologies, specialized security talent and industry leading vendor partnerships to identify, protect, detect and respond to cyber security threats in a timely manner. To remain resilient to such threats, we follow sound industry practices and have implemented threat and vulnerability assessment and response capabilities. Our endpoint detection and response software is integrated into our security operations centre, which is equipped to respond quickly to any threats in our environment. Proactive cyber response enables us to track intruders across our systems, understand root causes and contain any threats with minimal disruption to the business. 
Should there be a major business disruption, we leverage  
a company-wide incident response and business continuity 
management program that covers remediation activities, continuity of critical operations and processes, and recovery of systems. 
Recognizing that the human element is equally important in data 
protection, we have a continuous security awareness and training program. Knowledge sharing is ongoing with regular and continuous mandatory training for employees, advisors and contractors.  We plan to expand this training to clients in 2022.
Regular internal and third-party assessments of our security 
procedures ensure they remain relevant and effective. These include assessments against standards from the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions and the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada. We also participate in industry-established forums and collaborate with peers on threat intelligence and critical security threats facing the global financial services sector.
LEARN MORE  »
See our Annual Report,  pages 77–78, for more on 
technology, cyber, privacy risksIGM Privacy Policy
Who has responsibility Our Senior Vice-President & Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) and the Technology Architecture 
and Information Security Office are responsible for all aspects of the implementation, management and execution of our information technology (IT) security, risk and compliance framework. The CISO ensures compliance with all relevant application security and cyber security standards, and applicable laws and regulations, and regularly reports to the Board on our cyber, IT risk and information security strategy.
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX46
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportEnhancing security awareness 
Our IT Risk group manages a security awareness and education continuous improvement program 
aimed at mitigating human cyber security risks. With most of our employees working from home,  
mandatory 2021 training included a Security Essentials Beyond the Office  course, which reviewed the best 
security measures for working safely outside the office, securing corporate data and systems at home, and avoiding unsecured networks.
Multi-layered annual mandatory cyber awareness 
training for all staff covering:
Key outcomesPROGRAM COMPONENTS
Information campaign aligned to the internationally recognized 
Cyber Security Awareness Month (CSAM) in October» Linkage of key messages between employees’ 
 work and personal lives» Increased cyber awareness among 
 IGM workforce
» Increased reporting of suspected 
 phishing emailsSecuring your digital life Cyber self-defense tips and best practices
Reinforcement via phishing simulationsReview of common social engineering scamsKEY OUTCOMES
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX47
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportPrivacy 
Our clients entrust us with their personal information, and we have 
a legal and ethical responsibility to protect it. While each operating company has its own privacy-related procedures relevant to its business, we have formalized our commitment to protecting the information we collect and generate through an overarching Privacy Policy applicable across IGM. A summary  of the Policy is posted 
to our website and all operating companies also maintain privacy notices on their websites. 
In accordance with Canadian privacy laws, we collect only personal 
information that is necessary to provide our products and services to clients, or where we have consent to do so. We provide ways for individuals to opt in or out of data collection and, where relevant, to verify, correct and delete their data.
We do not disclose personal information about clients unless 
required by law, when necessary to provide products or services to them, or as otherwise authorized by them. If we need to share clients’ personal information with third-party service providers, we remain responsible for that information and protect it through contracts that commit the service providers to maintain levels of protection comparable to ours. Our operating companies have comprehensive procedures to respond to any privacy breaches, mitigate risks and prevent re-occurrence. If a breach is determined to pose a real risk of significant harm to a client, we will notify the individual, and the federal  and/or provincial Privacy Commissioner where applicable, in a  timely manner. 
Privacy is covered in our annual, mandatory compliance training 
for employees and advisors. Topics include our privacy obligations, privacy tips and best practices, and how to handle privacy breaches, complaints and access to information requests. Each operating company also has its own Privacy Officer, who provides guidance to staff and manages our response to privacy concerns that may be raised by a client. 
In 2021, we began preparations for complying with upcoming federal 
and provincial legislative changes, which will grant Canadians greater control and transparency over their personal data. The legislation is aimed at ensuring that Canada keeps pace with evolving global privacy laws and remains interoperable with other countries’ actions in trust and privacy. 
Privacy is covered in our annual, 
mandatory compliance training  
for employees and advisors.
Who has responsibility Our Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) leads and oversees our privacy program. Ultimately reporting to the 
CCO, Privacy Officers at each company work with front-line staff to address privacy matters.
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX48
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportTalent  and culture 
Our company’s success is highly dependent on fostering a culture that attracts and empowers talented people from all backgrounds to 
join us and to help strengthen our connections to our clients and communities. 
We bring together the best of both worlds for employees – the 
accountability and agility of a small player with the scale and impact of a big firm – while offering room to grow their careers. We aim to be known in the marketplace as the place to build one’s career. 
As our business needs and employee expectations change, we’re 
also evolving our people programs, with an emphasis on flexibility and choice. 
We are pursuing five-year strategic initiatives in key aspects of our 
culture and talent practices: 
• Strategic workforce planning – Anticipating and driving change that aligns talent decisions with future business opportunities 
• Optimal organization design – Better reflecting how work is done today and in the future, and ensuring that our structure and roles align with the business and workforce strategy • Talent culture – Building greater capabilities and futureproofing the business through evolving leadership, development and succession management 
• Differentiated people value proposition – Enabling employee and business success through clarity and focus on what makes our company special 
• Holistic approach to wellness and rewards – Increasing resilience and engagement through holistic wellness and flexible and competitive total rewards packages 
• Talent management systems – Equipping our leaders to make informed decisions through data-based insights driven by integrated systems and programs 
• Communications –  Providing a communication experience  
that is connected, accessible and invites people to provide  
their feedback A second year into the pandemic, we maintained – and, in many cases, strengthened – programs and practices put in place in  2020 to ensure that our employees remained connected and felt supported at a challenging time. This included, for example, implementing summer hours, giving additional paid days off, transparent and frequent internal communications, and regularly surveying employees to find out how they were doing and what  we needed to improve. 
We also advanced our DE&I strategy (see page 29 ) and our  
future of work strategy (see page 53 ). 
RELATED PUBLICATIONS  » 
Code of Conduct
Workplace Harassment and  
Discrimination Prevention Policy
Who has responsibility The Board’s Human Resources Committee reviews and approves compensation policies and guidelines 
and oversees risks relating to our key human resources policies. The senior executive-level IGM Operating Committee provides oversight on priorities, tracks performance and ensures that appropriate resources are allocated to deliver on human resource strategies. The Executive Vice-President and Chief Human Resources Officer oversees our integrated human resources policies and programs. 
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX49
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportHealth and wellness 
Our four-pillar approach to health and wellness aims to ensure that 
employees are physically thriving, emotionally balanced, financially secure and socially connected, by providing easy-to-access programs and resources, and flexible, real-time solutions. 
Relaunched in 2021 as Wellness Watch, the program focuses on 
where employees are within a spectrum of wellness. In 2020 and 2021, the emphasis was on stress and resilience support, sleep, work-life balance, and financial resources and planning – areas that were identified in our wellness surveys as being most important to our people. 
New programs and events in 2021 included: 
• Mental health virtual wellness fair held during Canada’s Mental 
Health Week, which saw close to 1,200 employees participate in wellness sessions and activities like yoga and Zumba 
• Wellness 101 education sessions, held bi-monthly for all employees, and on request by 10 different business units 
• Financial wellness webinars led by our internal financial planning professionals on topics such as optimizing retirement, cash flow and credit, and planning for the unexpected 
• Mental health training to help people leaders better understand common mental health issues, recognize typical symptoms, have focused conversations with employees exhibiting symptoms and learn to take care of themselves 
• Mental health awareness training to help employees understand the impact of mental illness, learn the importance of workplace support and develop strategies to help support those suffering from mental illness 
· Mental and physical/dental 
health beneﬁts
· Telehealth
· Medisys/Medcan· Best Doctors· Ergonomics from home 
training
· Virtual ﬁtness classes
· Employee and Family 
Assistance Program
· Anti-stigma (Not Myself Today)
· Resilience webinars· Virtual well-being support sessions· AbilitiCBT· Best Doctors (Mental Health Navigator)· Mental health training· Competitive compensation 
including incentive plans 
· Life insurance· Disability insurance (STD/LTD)· Critical illness· DB and DC pension plans, 
group RRSP
· Share purchase plan· Maternity/paternity leave top-up· EcoPass transit pass· Group home and auto insurance· Credit counselling
· Leading vacation day policy
· Time oﬀ (10 wellness days, 
two volunteer days per year)
· Supportive work environment/
community
· Business resource groups· Sustainability initiatives· Wellness Committee events 
and programsPHYSICAL EMOTIONALFINANCIAL SOCIALSECURE
CONNECTEDBALANCEDTHRIVING
Well-being
* IGM benefits are the same for part-time employees who work at least 20 hours.
PARENTAL  
LEAVE TOP-UP 62% increase in number of non-birth parents utilizing 
parental leave, compared to the same period last year, since 
the launch of our parental leave top-up in January 2021.
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX50
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportEngaging our employees 
Creating a highly engaging workplace experience for our employees 
is a strategic priority across IGM. Our leaders set the tone with regular updates from our CEO and Executive Vice-President and Chief Human Resources Officer via video, emails, webcasts and employee forums. Along with these updates, we have divisional townhall meetings, intranets and dedicated information hubs, as well as email bulletins and newsletters. Increasingly, we’re using technology for live questions and instant polling. 
In addition to an annual employee engagement survey, we use short 
pulse surveys to gather timely feedback on specific topics – such as wellness, internal communications and returning to the office – and adjust our approaches if needed. Results and follow-up plans are broadly shared across the organization. 
Technology enhancements enabled us to dig deeper into our 2021 
engagement survey data to identify trends in different parts of the organization. While protecting anonymity, senior leaders were given access to their business area’s survey results, and worked with their teams to facilitate post-survey conversations aimed at understanding the story behind the numbers and taking relevant action.2021 ENGAGEMENT SURVEY HIGHLIGHTS
79%
overall engagement index 
(vs. 74% for the global benchmark index)85% 
are proud to  
work for IGM
 84%
think their  
people leader is an effective leader
83% 
feel they have the training they need to do their job82% 
would gladly recommend IGM as a place to work
Creating a highly engaging 
workplace experience for our employees is a strategic priority across IGM.
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX51
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportEnabling performance and development 
We are committed to the development and career goals of our 
employees. We approach learning and development through  formal training, feedback, coaching and on-the-job experience –  all supported through individual development plans that are required for all employees. 
Our redesigned performance management program focuses on 
simplicity, flexibility and transparency. Leaders set clear expectations on performance objectives and competencies, provide ongoing coaching and feedback, and create personal development plans  
with all employees. Annual objectives are aligned with company strategy and leaders hold quarterly meetings to review progress.  The competency framework gives employees clear indicators of what’s expected of them at each career level and helps in creating their development plans. All tasks are completed through a digital talent management system that automates and integrates performance management and compensation tools. 
Training programs include on-demand learning assets, which 
employees can access as they work toward their development goals. “Live” virtual learning experiences have also become an essential part of how we’ve supported employees during the pandemic. These experiences included both leadership development sessions and sessions for all employees.Our leadership development approach includes a consistent succession planning framework to identify and develop employees who have leadership potential, and to identify succession candidates for critical senior roles. Annual talent and succession reviews assess leadership potential and assist us in creating strategies to develop talent and take other steps, as required. 
Leaders have access to additional training including two in-house 
designed leadership development programs. In 2021, we relaunched the LEAD program for high-potential leaders, which features experience-based development through work on real projects. The revised curriculum focuses on developing the competencies identified in our new competency framework. 
We also relaunched the Leadership Fundamentals program for new 
and emerging leaders. This program focuses on core leadership concepts and practices that inspire high levels of team engagement and performance. The program was in such demand that we added extra sessions. A follow-up program aimed at developing coaching skills through small workshops was also well attended. 
In 2021, all employees participated in inclusive behaviours training, 
which used self-reflection and discussion to increase awareness and action. Intact teams completed the training together so members could support each other and apply learnings directly to their work. 
PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT FOR ADVISORS 
IG University is IG’s enhanced learning institute for advisors. 
Programming is anchored to the core pillars of financial planning, professional responsibility, products and services, practice management and leadership development. Programs, training and resources include more than 2,400 hours of continuing education-accredited content. Approximately 57,420 courses were completed in 2021. 
Mackenzie has a dedicated practice management team that 
supports advisors in managing and growing their business through workshops, keynotes, tools and resources. In 2021, the team delivered more than 602 advisor Zoom meetings and 30 formal presentations.
IPC’s Learning Network provides opportunities for employees 
and independent advisors to connect nationally, so they can benefit from knowledge and insights from across our company.
“ Live” virtual learning experiences have also become 
an essential part of how we’ve supported employees 
during the pandemic.
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX52
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportTalent acquisition 
In a competitive market for talent, we’ve developed a plan to deepen 
our talent pool by establishing a centralized talent attraction process, growing and diversifying our pipelines and networks, and leveraging social media, data and internal talent to target candidates. We’ve also improved the recruiting experience for candidates through the introduction of standardized processes and consistent interview techniques to minimize bias. 
We continue to enhance our corporate onboarding program to 
instill confidence in new hires from their first day, by helping them understand our organization, our values, where they fit in and how they can contribute. The program highlights our emphasis on sustainability and community engagement. In 2021, we rolled out the next phase of onboarding, which includes an ambassador program, more touchpoints throughout the journey and additional tools to support leaders with onboarding their new hires.
We hired 48 summer interns in 2021 and eight new graduates for 
a rotation program that provides recent university graduates with opportunities to develop their leadership skills, build their business acumen and learn how each department contributes to the success of the organization. 
A big focus in 2021 was on embedding DE&I into our hiring practices. 
This included having open conversations with hiring leaders on the topic, ensuring inclusive language in our communications, encouraging the use of diverse hiring panels and adding candidate diversity self-identification to the job application process. See  page 32  to learn more.We continue to enhance our corporate 
onboarding program to instill 
confidence in new hires from their first day, by helping them understand our organization, our values, where they fit in and how they can contribute.ATTRACTING NEW ADVISORS 
IG’s dedicated team of talent specialists focus on attracting 
highly qualified professionals to the financial advisor opportunity. We have a highly selective recruiting process with only 3% of applicants ultimately being appointed. In 2021, over 200+ financial professionals chose IG. Toward our DE&I goals, we launched a digital content partnership with The Globe and Mail featuring stories of careers in wealth management as told by a diverse group of IG advisors. We also launched IG’s first Podcast series to tell stories of empowerment, breakthrough and perseverance shared by inspirational women.
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX53
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportFuture of work 
Over the past two years, we’ve advanced our future of work strategy, 
which recognizes that employees’ expectations – and our view of what’s needed to drive company performance – have changed since the start of the pandemic. 
Consultations with leaders and employees showed a clear 
preference for ongoing hybrid office and remote work options post-pandemic. In 2021, we developed a playbook to provide context for our approach to the design of hybrid work and concrete practices to help teams make a smooth transition. 
Two key hybrid work principles are guiding our approach – namely, 
that everyone needs to feel like they’re part of the organization and their team, and that everyone can work according to individual preferences when the work allows for it. Our approach to implementing the new model emphasizes dialogue, rather than rules, and the playbook gives leaders a step-by-step guide for working with their teams to clarify individual preferences and discuss the team’s work and interaction patterns. 
As part of our strategy, we’re also reimagining our office spaces 
to support changing needs and new modes of collaboration and connectivity, and to uphold strong wellness and environmental principles. To improve the employee experience, everyone will have access to natural light and there’ll be an increased emphasis on ergonomics, indoor environmental comfort and collaboration spaces.
Implementation of the new workplace design has begun at the  
180 Simcoe office in Toronto, and will be rolled out to all corporate 
campuses in the coming years. See page 58  to learn more. TOP 100 EMPLOYERS
All three IGM companies were named top 100 employers in 2021 and we couldn’t  
be more pleased.
 IG Wealth Management 
was listed among  
Canada’s top employers. Mackenzie and IPC were listed among the  
top employers in the Greater Toronto Area.
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX54
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability Report
Community  support
By sharing our time, talents and financial resources with our communities, we help build the foundation 
for a healthier, more prosperous, more equitable and more resilient society, which benefits us all.
Both IG and Mackenzie are designated as Caring Companies by 
Imagine Canada, which works to strengthen Canadian charities and non-profits. Caring Companies commit to contributing at least 1% of their average annual pre-tax profit to charitable/non-profit organizations, and to enabling personal giving and volunteer activities by their employees. 
Each of our operating companies has its own community giving 
program, with its own guidelines and combination of centralized giving (directed from our corporate head offices) and decentralized decisions (made by our people). Our people have the ability to direct donations and grants to causes that are most important to them:
• At IG, advisors and employees support their respective communities through the employee-led Community Projects Fund, Matching Gift Program and Volunteer Support Program, and budgets and decision making are allocated directly to region offices across the country• At Mackenzie, community initiatives – including donations  
and matching programs – are managed by employee  volunteers and the Mackenzie Together Charitable Foundation 
• At IPC, community giving is conducted through an employee-driven Spirit Committee and self-directed initiatives run by advisors in their communities, all under the banner of IPC Cares 
We encourage our people to volunteer in their communities and we recognize exceptional contributions through various community service award programs. Volunteer efforts at each company are facilitated through planned events, two paid volunteer days per year and ongoing support for Canada’s National Volunteer Week every April.
Who has responsibility At each operating company, philanthropy and employee involvement strategies are approved by the 
respective President and CEO. The Vice-President of IGM Sponsorship and Community Engagement works with the management teams of our operating companies to review the community investment strategies annually. Strategic oversight of the Mackenzie Together Charitable Foundation is performed by an independent board.
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX55
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability Report2021 HIGHLIGHTS
$9.2 million 
contributed to community  
and charitable organizations 
across CanadaRecord $
1.92  million 
raised by employees for United Way and the Mackenzie Together Charitable Foundation through the IGM Caring Company Campaign – 23% more than the prior year$5.2 million+ 
raised for Alzheimer Society of Canada through the IG Walk for Alzheimer’s virtual walk
Sponsored, jointly with Power Corporation, the National Centre  
for Truth and Reconciliation’s Imagine a Canada, a national art  
and leadership program that inspires youth to envision and  
aspire for reconciliationLaunch of Mackenzie Top Peak, a call to action for Canadian ski communities to show their spirit  
and bring skiers together for a chance to win $50,000 towards a community investment projectIndigenous Commitment, which is delivering $5 million over five years to Indigenous communities across Canada in the form of financial empowerment tools, resources  and partnershipsIPC Cares
Our IPC family rallied around the Healing Cycle Foundation’s 
annual bike ride in support of Canadians in palliative care and the Movember campaign in support of men’s health, raising $20,000 in total. They also raised $18,500 for pandemic relief for communities in Honduras, where they would normally make an annual volunteer trip.
Through the IG Empower Your 
Tomorrow program, we work to remove 
barriers to financial confidence among four traditionally underserved groups. See page 23.
donations
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX56
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportEnvironmental  footprint
Recognizing the clear connection between a healthy business, healthy 
communities and a healthy planet, we challenge ourselves to reduce our environmental footprint. 
We focus on managing direct impacts from our operations in four 
main areas – energy use, employee commuting and business travel, waste management and paper use. These are the areas where we have the greatest environmental impact and where improvements will help reduce our GHG emissions. 
Specific environmental commitments are formalized in our 
Environmental Policy  and, as of 2021, our Climate Position Statement . 
Expectations for our suppliers, set out in our Supplier Code of Conduct, include compliance with applicable environmental laws and conducting their activities in an environmentally responsible manner. 
We engage an energy and data management company to track 
and manage information across our owned and leased offices and make recommendations for operational improvements. Our GHG emissions-related targets and progress are made public in our annual carbon disclosure project (CDP) submission. Employee green committees are drivers of many initiatives to reduce paper, waste and energy consumption. These volunteers raise awareness and engagement around the importance of adopting environmentally responsible practices at work, at home and in the community. Along with the growing focus on sustainability within our Facilities team, they are continually moving us forward. This included, for example, leading efforts to move all waste systems at corporate offices to centralized bins to divert at least 50% of waste from  landfill. In 2021 the green committees spearheaded an employee green survey, a shoreline cleanup day across several major Canadian cities, and speaker events on topics such as climate change and Indigenous learnings.
Third-party reviews of our environmental practices are an integral 
part of our approach. We externally assure our annual GHG Emissions Statement for all Scope 1, 2 and 3 travel emissions and applicable reduction targets. We normally conduct annual waste audits in our corporate offices to identify improvement opportunities and increase engagement with employees; however, this activity was paused as we worked from home during the pandemic. 
RELATED PUBLICATIONS  » 
Environmental PolicyClimate Position StatementCDP Report
Who has responsibility Our Chief Operating Officer is responsible for our facility leases and operational management, purchasing, travel 
management and virtual meeting capabilities. Responsible for creating a consistent culture of environmental awareness and practices across our operating companies, the Green Council consists of leaders from Facility Management, Human Resources, Corporate Sustainability, Information Services and Community Investments, and the chairs of the employee green committees. For climate governance, see our TCFD Report, page 81 . 
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX57
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportToward carbon neutral 
In 2021, as part of our Climate Position Statement, we declared our intent to be carbon neutral in our 
corporate offices and travel by the end of 2022. While our focus will be on reducing our GHG emissions, we will initially need to purchase carbon offsets to achieve this goal so quickly. 
Our journey to carbon neutrality includes the following steps: 
Rationalizing office space – 
We’re implementing a multi-year strategy for reducing the amount of leased office space we occupy by over 20%, as a way to generate cost savings and lower our footprintMoving into higher-quality  
buildings –  When leases expire,  
we look to upgrade to more efficient buildings and preferably ones that are LEED certified Modernizing existing offices –  
Environmental sustainability is incorporated into our workplace of the future design principles and throughout the renovation process 
Enhancing responsible energy,  
water, waste and paper management practices – This includes establishing an energy efficiency and adaptation renovation plan for our owned and leased office spaceReducing travel impacts – Through the continued use of virtual meetings, support for employees using low-carbon commuting options, and transitioning to electric vehicles when taxi and limousine services are required 
See our TCFD Report, page 81 , and 
our CDP Report to learn more about 
our approach to climate change and initiatives toward carbon neutral, and for information on our current targets.2021 GHG EMISSIONS
Market-based GHG emissions by scope
Tonnes of CO2 equivalent
Scope 12013 (base year)
2019 (pre-pandemic)
202110,159
8,146
4,714
2,313
22 5 4835
34
Scope 2 Scope 3 in operations
Energy use Air and ground travel Water and waste02,0004,0006,0008,00010,00012,000
227143 1028,368
3,899 
2,986
1165,856
4,534
02,0004,0006,0008,00010,00012,000Market-based GHG emissions by source
Tonnes of CO2 equivalentScope 12013 (base year)
2019 (pre-pandemic)
202110,159
8,146
4,714
2,313
22 5 4835
34
Scope 2 Scope 3 in operations
Energy use Air and ground travel Water and waste02,0004,0006,0008,00010,00012,000
227143 1028,368
3,899 
2,986
1165,856
4,534
02,0004,0006,0008,00010,00012,000
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX58
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability Report
INTRODUCING THE WORKPLACE OF THE FUTURE
Five of the floors we occupy at 180 Simcoe Street, Toronto, will be the first to incorporate our workplace 
of the future design principles, as our renewed commitment to this office presented an opportunity to transform the space. In the coming years, we’ll implement the new design at all corporate campuses.
The six design principles – collaboration and community, technology 
enablement, wellness, quality of light, sustainability, and simplicity of materials – reflect our goal of creating spaces that support employee well-being, promote collaboration and stimulate innovation. Sustainability features will include energy-efficient fixtures, and materials and furniture that prioritize recycled content, require low travel to the site, and can be recycled at the end of their useful life.
With the upgrading of the 180 Simcoe office in 2021, we made a 
good start of putting our commitment to sustainability into practice. We partnered with more than 12 companies to ensure sustainable practices throughout the process. Partners included Green Standards, a firm that facilitates charitable donations, resale and recycling to keep workplace furniture and equipment out of landfill while generating positive local community impact.Following 83 days of removing workstations and moving boxes, Green Standards helped us turn 132 tonnes of corporate waste into charitable donations to six organizations – Madaniyaa Academy, Salvation Army, Korean Canadian Cultural Association, Canada Bodhi Dharma Society, Blue Veil Charity and Save the Students.
Great consideration was given to the responsible disposal of 
demolition materials, and the recyclability of usable office items to ensure no waste went to landfill. From clearing the affected floors of dated furniture, to the start of demolition with a sledgehammer, our focus on sustainability yielded emissions, waste and energy savings. 
To put the numbers into perspective, our partnership  
with Green Standards achieved the equivalent of the following:
Preventing CO2 
emissions equal to  
the annual energy  
used by 207 homes Diverting waste  
from landfill equal  
to the weight of  
26 elephants Avoiding 10,698  
tank refills worth  
of gasoline through 
reduction tacticsRecycling office  
furniture  
and equipment26
Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices APPENDIX59
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability Report
Appendix
» ESG Data Table 
» GRI Index » SASB Index » TCFD Report
APPENDIX Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices 60
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportESG Data Table
The following data tables apply to IGM Financial and its operating companies.
Governance
GRI Standard Topic Measurement 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
BOARD COMPOSITION (a)
102-22 Board directors Number 15 15 15 15 16
102-22 Executive Board members Number 1 1 1 1 1
102-22 Non-executive Board members Number 14 14 14 14 15
102-22 Women directors (b) Number 5 5 5 5 4
102-22, 405-1 Board gender diversity Percent of total Board 33 33 33 33 25
Board age diversity
405-1 Over 70 Number 2 2 1 1 1
405-1 Between 50 and 70 Number 13 13 13 11 13
405-1 Between 30 and 49 Number 0 0 1 3 2
102-22 Board tenure Average years 11 11 10 9 8
102-22 Independent Board members (b) Number 9 9 9 9 8
102-22 Board independence Percentage 60 60 60 60 50
102-22 Audit Committee independence Percentage 100 100 100 100 100
102-22 Related Party and Conduct Review Committee independence Percentage 100 100 100 100 100
102-22 Human Resources Committee independence Percentage 57 50 50 50 20
102-22 Governance and Nominating Committee independence Percentage 50 50 50 50 25
Average Board and Committee meeting attendance rate Percentage 98 98 93 94 90
102-22 Directors with 4 or less mandates (c) Percentage 100 100 100 100 100
AUDITOR’S FEES
Audit fees $ 2,773,000 2,427,000 2,746,000 2,562,000 2,616,000
Audit-related fees $ 192,000 110,000 244,000 376,000 311,000
Tax fees $ 114,000 163,000 74,000 64,000 149,000
All other fees $ 310,000 236,000 314,000 281,000 629,000
Fees paid for services other than the audit Percentage 13 14 11 11 21
(a) All Board composition data is as of the dates of the annual meetings in the respective years, except for the “Average Board and Committee meeting attendance rates” which are as of December 31.
(b) The Board of the Corporation is composed of 15 directors. Within the meaning of the CSA Guidelines and National Instrument 52-110 – Audit Committees and National Instrument 58-101 – Disclosure of Corporate Governance Practices (the “Instruments”) and in the 
Board’s view, the following nine directors (constituting a 60% majority of the Board), namely Marc A. Bibeau, Marcel R. Coutu, Gary Doer, Susan Doniz, Sharon Hodgson, Sharon MacLeod, Susan J. McArthur, John McCallum and Beth Wilson are independent and have no 
other relationships that could reasonably interfere with the exercise of their independent judgment in discharging their duties to the Corporation. Paul Desmarais, Jr., André Desmarais, Claude Genereux, R. Jeffrey Orr and Gregory D. Tretiak, being executive officers of Power Financial Corporation, are not independent within the meaning of the Instruments but, in the Board’s view, they are all independent of management. 
(c) Represents mandates on public company boards outside Power Corporation and its subsidiaries (including Power Financial, Great-West Lifeco and IGM Financial).
APPENDIX Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices 61
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportEthics and compliance
GRI Standard Topic Measurement 2021 2020 2019
POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS
415-1  Amount of political contributions $ 0 0 0
PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING
417-2  Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning 
product and service information and labeling in core documents, by type of outcomes. Core documents are those required under securities legislation in connection with distributions and continuous disclosure and include: Prospectuses, MRFPs, Fund Financial Statements, AIFs, Fund Facts. (d)Total number IGM Financial and its 
operating companies did 
not have any significant 
incidents of non-
compliance in 2021.IGM Financial and its 
operating companies did not 
have any significant incidents 
of non-compliance in 2020.IGM Financial and its 
operating companies did not 
have any significant incidents 
of non-compliance in 2019.
MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship by type of outcomes (e,f)Total number IGM Financial and its 
operating companies did 
not have any significant 
incidents of non-
compliance in 2021.IGM Financial and its 
operating companies did not 
have any significant incidents 
of non-compliance in 2020.IGM Financial and its 
operating companies did not 
have any significant incidents 
of non-compliance in 2019.
CUSTOMER PRIVACY
418-1 Substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer dataTotal number IGM Financial and its 
operating companies did 
not have any complaints 
substantiated by the 
Office of the Privacy 
Commissioner of Canada 
or provincial privacy 
commissioners in 2021.IGM Financial and its 
operating companies did 
not have any complaints 
substantiated by the Office 
of the Privacy Commissioner 
of Canada or provincial 
privacy commissioners  
in 2020.IGM Financial and its 
operating companies did 
not have any complaints 
substantiated by the Office 
of the Privacy Commissioner 
of Canada or provincial 
privacy commissioners  
in 2019.
LAWS AND REGULATIONS
419-1 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary  
sanctions (g)Dollars, total number
Refer to Laws and 
Regulation section of 2021 
Annual Information Form .Refer to Laws and Regulation 
section of 2020 Annual 
Information Form .Refer to Laws and Regulation 
section of 2019 Annual 
Information Form .
(d)  Non-compliance issues are defined as material misstatements in core documents that would require IGM Financial or its operating companies to amend documents, re-file with the regulators and remedy with clients.  
(e)  Marketing communications are defined as corporate marketing materials and advertising, including sponsorships that are covered by the Mutual Fund Sales Practices Rule. Communications prepared by advisors with the operating companies are included.
(f)  Non-compliance issues are defined as material misstatements that would require IGM Financial or its operating companies to amend documents and remedy with clients.
(g)  Non-monetary sanctions are defined as significant suspensions or cancellations of registrations or material conditions or restrictions on registration pertaining to IGM Financial and its operating companies, and IG Wealth Management and Investment Planning Counsel 
advisors, imposed as a result of a hearing or formal settlement agreement with regulators or self-regulatory organizations.
APPENDIX Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices 62
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportTaxes
GRI Standard Topic Measurement 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
TAXES
Income taxes by jurisdiction
201-1 Federal Government (h) $ million 174.6 123.7 142.9 151.4 112.7
201-1 British Columbia $ million 1.4 1.0 1.7 1.8 0.9
201-1 Alberta (h) $ million 1.1 0.9 1.9 1.9 0.5
201-1 Saskatchewan (h) $ million 0.5 0.3 0.6 0.6 0.2
201-1 Manitoba (h) $ million 37.0 13.9 10.6 14.3 9.1
201-1 Ontario (h) $ million 37.4 22.3 35.3 36.3 19.3
201-1 Quebec (h) $ million 4.0 2.9 5.0 4.9 2.3
201-1 New Brunswick $ million 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.1
201-1 Nova Scotia $ million 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.2 0.1
201-1 PEI $ million 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 –
201-1 Newfoundland $ million 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 –
201-1 Total Canadian income taxes $ million 256.5 165.4 198.7 211.9 145.2
201-1 China $ million 2.7 1.4 1.0 1.1 1.1
201-1 Ireland $ million 1.5 1.0 1.2 1 1.8
201-1 Hong Kong $ million 1.0 0.8 0.3 0.6 0.5
201-1 United States $ million 0.1 -0.2 0.0 0 0
201-1 Total international income taxes $ million 5.3 3.0 2.5 2.7 3.4
201-1 Total current income taxes $ million 261.8 168.4 201.2 214.6 148.6
201-1 Total deferred income taxes $ million 56.8 32.3 18.5 -4.7 25.3
201-1 Total income taxes $ million 318.6 200.7 219.7 209.9 173.9
201-1 Total other taxes – capital, commodity, payroll, property, business and other (h) $ million 34.0 29.8 24.6 28.4 25.0
(h) Amounts include taxes that have been reclassed and recorded through retained earnings.
APPENDIX Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices 63
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportSustainable investing
GRI Standard Topic Measurement 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
MACKENZIE INVESTMENTS
Number of companies engaged on ESG issues
Internal staff engagements (i) Number 467 450 299 131 N/A
Service provider engagements Number 969 979 560 164 N/A
Climate-related engagements (j) Number 743 N/A N/A N/A N/A
Proxy votes cast during year by Mackenzie (k) Percentage 100 100 100 100 100
Sub-advisors who are PRI signatories Percentage of AUM 100 100 90 90 86
IG WEALTH MANAGEMENT
Proxy votes cast during year by investment sub-advisors (k) Percentage 99 100 100 N/A N/A
Sub-advisors who are PRI signatories Percentage of AUM 100 100 100 97 96
PRODUCTS DELIVERING SPECIFIC SOCIAL OR ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS – IGM FINANCIAL  
Best-in-class, thematic and impact investment funds (Sustainable Solutions) – 
assets under management (l)$ million 4,320 1,648.1 471.9 432.9 541.2 
ESG-labelled debt (m)  2,512 836 378 N/A N/A
Charitable giving funds – IG Wealth Management and Mackenzie Investments $ million 373 298.2 279.3 239.2 233.7 
Registered Disability Savings Plans $ million 1,792.6 1,384.2 1,106.2 811.7 680.5 
Percentage of total assets under management subject to negative environmental or social screens (n)Percentage 96 97.5 98.0 99.0 0.3
(i)  Restated 2020 to report companies engaged versus all engagements, including multiple engagements with a single company.
(j)  Climate-related engagements are included in “Internal staff engagements” and “Service provider engagements.” 
(k)  Per PRI reporting and Proxy Voting Policy requirements found at: https://www.bninvestissements.ca/content/dam/bni/en/regulatory/proxy-voting/proxy-voting-policy-Mackenzie.pdf . 
(l)  Every investment boutique at Mackenzie utilizes ESG factors in their investment process. The $4.32B in AUM quoted above includes only “sustainable investment” products where sustainability goals are explicitly outlined in the objectives and strategies of each product 
by prospectus. 
(m)  This represents the total AUM in sustainable and green bonds and sustainability-linked debt which includes $209M reported in the Sustainable Solutions AUM of $4.32B. 
(n)  Introduced exclusionary Policy on Cluster Munitions and Anti-Personnel Landmines in 2018 which applies to equity and corporate credit holdings, but not to investments in derivatives or other index exposures where our exposure is indirect and outside of our control. 
APPENDIX Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices 64
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportTalent
GRI Standard Topic Measurement 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
EMPLOYEES BY REGION
102-8 British Columbia Total number 99 95 102 107 108
102-8 Alberta Total number 99 90 88 89 85
102-8 Saskatchewan Total number 19 15 17 18 20
102-8 Manitoba Total number 1,331 1,327 1,324 1,311 1,378
102-8 Ontario Total number 1,924 1,750 1,654 1,512 1,459
102-8 Quebec Total number 425 414 424 424 388
102-8 Atlantic Canada Total number 44 36 38 40 39
102-8 Canada – total Total number 3,941 3,727 3,647 3,501 3,477
102-8 China Total number 1 2 2 2 1
102-8 Ireland Total number 11 12 11 10 11
102-8 Hong Kong Total number 12 13 13 11 11
102-8 United States Total number 14 13 11 11 4
102-7/102-8 Total employees (o) Total number 3,979 3,767 3,684 3,535 3,504
IG WEALTH MANAGEMENT ADVISORS BY REGION
102-8 Alberta Total number 447 435 425 430 441
102-8 Atlantic Canada Total number 219 218 215 247 281
102-8 British Columbia Total number 368 381 394 429 482
102-8 Manitoba Total number 202 194 202 220 232
102-8 Ontario Total number 1,167 1,198 1,262 1,391 1,609
102-8 Quebec Total number 735 734 735 820 907
102-8 Saskatchewan Total number 140 144 148 174 194
Total advisors (o) 3,278 3,304 3,381 3,711 4,146
IG WEALTH MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS BY REGION  
102-8 Alberta Total number 191 179 210 227 236
102-8 Atlantic Canada Total number 108 91 82 94 100
102-8 British Columbia Total number 191 193 207 214 233
102-8 Manitoba Total number 81 69 84 96 99
102-8 Ontario Total number 501 467 500 540 581
102-8 Quebec Total number 338 270 298 334 359
102-8 Saskatchewan Total number 54 48 50 67 66
Total assistants (o) 1,464 1,317 1,431 1,572 1,674
APPENDIX Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices 65
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportTalent (continued)
GRI Standard Topic Measurement 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
INVESTMENT PLANNING COUNSEL ADVISORS BY REGION  
102-8 Alberta Total number 63 68 66 67 69
102-8 Atlantic Canada Total number 30 29 34 41 42
102-8 British Columbia Total number 71 73 78 79 91
102-8 Manitoba Total number 37 38 36 37 39
102-8 Ontario Total number 419 429 449 470 497
102-8 Quebec Total number 34 38 34 24 25
102-8 Saskatchewan Total number 20 20 23 26 26
102-8 Territories Total number 1 1 1 1 1
Total advisors (o) 675 696 721 745 790
EMPLOYEES BY GENDER AND TYPE
102-8 Total Total number 3,979 3,767 3,684 3,535 3,504
102-8 Women Total number 2,279 2,128 2,109 2,032 2,043
102-8 Men Total number 1,694 1,637 1,575 1,503 1,461
102-8 Non-binary/Gender not listed/Prefer not to disclose (p) Total number 6 2 N/A N/A N/A
102-8 Permanent Total number 3,827 3,525 3,379 3,308 3,286
102-8 Women Total number 2,177 1,993 1,943 1,897 1,908
102-8 Men Total number 1,644 1,530 1,436 1,411 1,378
102-8 Non-binary/Gender not listed/Prefer not to disclose Total number 6 2 N/A N/A N/A
102-8 Temporary Total number 152 242 305 227 218
102-8 Women Total number 102 135 166 135 135
102-8 Men Total number 50 107 139 92 83
102-8 Non-binary/Gender not listed/Prefer not to disclose Total number – – N/A N/A N/A
102-8 Full-time employees Total number 3,921 3,696 3,609 3,418 3,352
102-8 Women Total number 2,230 2,063 2,038 1,932 1,917
102-8 Men Total number 1,685 1,631 1,571 1,486 1,435
102-8 Non-binary/Gender not listed/Prefer not to disclose Total number 6 2 N/A N/A N/A
102-8 Part-time employees Total number 58 71 75 117 152
102-8 Women Total number 49 65 71 100 127
102-8 Men Total number 9 6 4 17 25
102-8 Non-binary/Gender not listed/Prefer not to disclose Total number – – N/A N/A N/A
APPENDIX Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices 66
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportTalent (continued)
GRI Standard Topic Measurement 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS  
102-41 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Percent of total employees – – – – –
NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES  
401-1 Total new hires – permanent employees Total number 592 317 455 502 308
401-1 Percent total new hires (q) Percent of total employees 15.5 9.0 13.5 15.2 9.4
Employee age groups
401-1 Under 30 (q) Percent of total employees 29.6 31.2 26.6 28.1 33.1
401-1 Age 30–50 (q) Percent of total employees 54.2 58.0 59.1 58.4 52.3
401-1 Over 50 (q) Percent of total employees 16.2 10.7 14.3 13.5 14.6
Employee gender
401-1 Women (q) Percent of total employees 55.4 46.1 59.1 54.4 55.5
401-1 Men (q) Percent of total employees 44.1 53.9 40.9 45.6 44.5
401-1 Non-binary/Gender not listed/Prefer not to disclose Percent of total employees 0.5 – N/A N/A N/A
EMPLOYEE TURNOVER  
401-1 Total turnover – permanent employees Total number 491 275 512 616 525
401-1 Percent total turnover (q,r) Percent of total employees 12.8 7.8 15.2 18.6 16.0 
401-1 Voluntary turnover – permanent employees Total number 400 191 341 468 280
401-1 Percent voluntary turnover (q,r) Percent of total employees 10.5 5.4 10.1 14.1 8.5
Employee age groups
401-1 Under 30 (q) Percent of total employees 25.7 24.4 23.6 16.9 16.4
401-1 Age 30–50 (q) Percent of total employees 54.2 53.8 55.5 45.0 49.0
401-1 Over 50 (q) Percent of total employees 20.2 21.8 20.9 38.1 34.7
Employee gender
401-1 Women (q) Percent of total employees 51.9 54.9 59.6 60.1 59.4
401-1 Men (q) Percent of total employees 47.7 45.1 40.4 39.9 40.6
401-1 Non-binary/Gender not listed/Prefer not to disclose Percent of total employees 0.3 – N/A N/A N/A
TRAINING AND EDUCATION  
404-3 Employees receiving performance reviews (s) Percent of total eligible 
employees100.0 100.0 100.0 73.7 85.8
APPENDIX Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices 67
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportTalent (continued)
GRI Standard Topic Measurement 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION  
Employee gender
405-1 Women Percent of total employees 56.9 56.5 57.2 57.5 58.3
405-1 Men Percent of total employees 43 43.4 42.8 42.5 41.7
405-1 Non-binary/Gender not listed/Prefer not to disclose Percent of total employees 0.2 0.1 N/A N/A N/A
Employee age groups
405-1 Under 30 Percent of total employees 13.7 13.5 16.6 17.4 16.3
405-1 Age 30–50 Percent of total employees 59.6 61.0 59.0 59.2 58.2
405-1 Over 50 Percent of total employees 26.7 25.5 24.4 23.4 25.5
Employee executive (t)
405-1 Women Percent of total employees 31.8 33.3 34.0 30.9 27.5
405-1 Men Percent of total employees 67.8 66.7 66.0 69.1 72.5
405-1 Non-binary/Gender not listed/Prefer not to disclose Percent of total employees 0.4 – N/A N/A N/A
405-1 Under 30 Percent of total employees – – – – –
405-1 Age 30–50 Percent of total employees 51.1 54.0 56.0 56.5 58.5
405-1 Over 50 Percent of total employees 48.9 46 44.0 43.5 41.5
Employee management (u)
405-1 Women Percent of total employees 46.4 47.4 45.2 45.4 42.8
405-1 Men Percent of total employees 53.5 52.6 54.8 54.6 57.2
405-1 Non-binary/Gender not listed/Prefer not to disclose Percent of total employees 0.1 – N/A N/A N/A
405-1 Under 30 Percent of total employees 7.8 7 4.6 6.1 3.5
405-1 Age 30–50 Percent of total employees 64.6 67.8 68.6 68.5 67.4
405-1 Over 50 Percent of total employees 27.7 25.3 26.8 25.4 29.1
Employee non-management
405-1 Women Percent of total employees 67.3 65.6 64.7 66.5 66.9
405-1 Men Percent of total employees 32.5 34.3 35.3 33.5 33.1
405-1 Non-binary/Gender not listed/Prefer not to disclose 0.2 0.1 N/A N/A N/A
405-1 Under 30 Percent of total employees 19.5 19.6 23.4 25.1 22.6
405-1 Age 30–50 Percent of total employees 56.9 57.0 55.0 54.4 54.7
405-1 Over 50 Percent of total employees 23.6 23.5 21.6 20.4 22.7
IG Wealth Management advisors (o)
405-1 Women Percent of total advisors 28 27 28 28 29
405-1 Men Percent of total advisors 72 73 72 72 71
APPENDIX Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices 68
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportTalent (continued)
GRI Standard Topic Measurement 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION (CONTINUED)
IG Wealth Management advisors – new recruits
405-1 Women Percent of total new advisors 35 26 39 36 37
405-1 Men Percent of total new advisors 65 74 61 64 63
Investment Planning Counsel advisors (o)
405-1 Women Percent of total advisors 20 20 20 21 20
405-1 Men Percent of total advisors 80 80 80 79 80
WORKPLACE INJURIES AND FATALITIES
403-2 Injuries (v) Total number 1 2 7 6 5
403-2 Fatalities Total number – – – – –
(o)  The total number of employees and advisors are based on head count as at December 31st.
(p)  In 2020 we implemented an HR system that allows employees to self-select gender in their profile.
(q)  The ratio is calculated using permanent employees only.  
(r)  In 2018, IGM offered a voluntary early retirement program. Excluding the impact of this program, total employee turnover was 14.2% and total voluntary employee turnover was 9.8%.
(s)  In 2018, significant changes were made to the performance review program at IG Wealth Management and the collection of data for this operating company was in transition.
(t)  Includes Vice-President and above.
(u)  Excludes executive management.
(v)  Workplace injuries that resulted in lost time in the workplace subsequent to day of injury.
APPENDIX Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices 69
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportEnvironment
GRI Standard Topic Measurement 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2013 – Base year
ENERGY CONSUMED WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION (w)
302-1 Natural gas (heating) (x) Megawatt hours  2,395  3,415  5,163  5,827  5,334  5,861 
302-1 Jet kerosene (y) Megawatt hours  126  779  3,005  2,704  2,904  4,611 
302-1 Back-up diesel fuel (z) Megawatt hours –   14  –  –  12  –
302-1 Direct energy consumed Megawatt hours  2,521  4,208  8,168  8,532  8,249  10,472 
302-1 Indirect energy (electricity) consumed Megawatt hours  3,666  4,298  5,441  5,648  5,884  6,648 
302-1 Indirect energy (distribution of water) consumed Megawatt hours  8  15  31  33  31  33 
302-1 Total energy consumed within the organization Megawatt hours  6,195  8,520  13,640  14,213  14,164  17,153 
302-1Percent of electricity consumed within the organization from  
low-carbon sources (aa)Percent of total 100 100 100 100 100 100
302-1 Percent of energy consumed within the organization from low-carbon 
sources (aa)Percent of total 98 91 78 81 79 39
ENERGY CONSUMED OUTSIDE THE ORGANIZATION
302-2 Upstream leased properties Megawatt hours 38,504 41,242  46,982 47,777  50,689  47,713
302-2 Investment fund properties (bb) Megawatt hours 276,888 273,297 285,106  283,347 283,995 270,096
302-2 Business travel – air Thousands of statute miles  176  1,951  13,043  13,515  16,524  15,334 
302-2 Business travel – ground Thousands of kilometres  278  624  2,026  1,998  2,536  2,458 
WATER AND WASTE CONSUMPTION  
303-1 Water consumed in operations Thousands of cubic metres  96  114  173  177  181  204 
306-2 Waste generated in operations – owned facility (cc) Tonnes  46  41  60  55  67  100 
ENERGY INTENSITY  
302-3 Total energy consumed in owned and leased office space (dd) Megawatt hours 44,573 48,983  57,617 59,286  61,950 60,255 
302-3 Number of people in owned and leased premises Number  8,842  8,179  8,437  8,703  8,910  9,050 
302-3 Canadian office space (ee) Average sq. ft.  1,902,287  1,936,497 1,930,688  1,987,246  2,062,954  1,926,250 
302-3 Energy consumed per person Megawatt hours/person 5.04 5.99 6.83  6.81  6.95 6.66 
302-3 Energy consumed per square foot Megawatt hours/sq. ft. 0.023 0.025  0.030  0.030  0.030  0.031 
APPENDIX Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices 70
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportEnvironment (continued)
GRI Standard Topic Measurement 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2013 – Base year
TOTAL GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS (w,ff,gg)  
305-1 Market-based direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) (hh) Metric tonnes of CO2e  34  241 835  724 781 2,313
305-2 Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) Metric tonnes of CO2e  4  2  5  2  7  22 
305-3 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3)
305-3 Emissions from upstream leased properties (hh) Metric tonnes of CO2e 4,541 4,791 5,846 6,021 6,434 7,297 
305-3 Emissions from investment fund properties (bb) Metric tonnes of CO2e 41,822 41,346 44,700 42,766 45,199 48,235 
305-3 Business travel – air Metric tonnes of CO2e  24  272 1,760 1,829 2,355 2,153
305-3 Business travel – ground Metric tonnes of CO2e 58  130 421 415  527 511
305-3 Waste generated in operations Metric tonnes of CO2e  91  81  119  109  134  198 
305-3 Total other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) Metric tonnes of CO2e 46,536 46,619 52,846  51,139 54,648 58,394
Total direct and indirect emissions (Scope 1, 2 and 3) Metric tonnes of CO2e 46,574 46,862 53,685 51,866 55,436 60,729
EMISSIONS INTENSITY  
305-4 Total emissions from owned and leased office space (dd) Metric tonnes of CO2e 4,752 5,516 8,985 9,100 10,238 12,494 
305-4 Number of people in owned and leased premises Number 8,842  8,179  8,437  8,703  8,910  9,050 
305-4 Canadian office space (ee) Average sq. ft. 1,902,287 1,936,497  1,930,688  1,987,246  2,062,954  1,926,250 
305-4 Emissions per person Metric tonnes of CO2e/person 0.54 0.67 1.07 1.05 1.15  1.38 
305-4 Emissions per square foot Metric tonnes of CO2e/sq. ft. 0.002  0.003  0.005  0.005  0.005  0.006 
(w)  2013–2020 consumption and emission data is restated as improved estimates and/or amendments to prior year factors are available. Emissions restated May 19, 2022, after initial release of this report on May 6th, due to release of updated emission factors.  
Additionally, 2020 Scope 3 emissions are restated due to removal of 134,728 m3 of excess natural gas renewable energy credits.
(x)  Conversion to MWh from volume of natural gas consumed was based on the conversion tool available at http://www.nrcan.gc.ca/energy/publications/efficiency/buildings/5985 . Natural gas is used for heating.
(y)  Conversion to MWh from volume of jet kerosene consumed was based on the conversion tool available at https://www.neb-one.gc.ca/nrg/tl/cnvrsntbl/cnvrsntbl-eng.html#s2ss_auto5 .
(z)  Conversion to MWh from volume of back-up diesel fuel consumed was based on the conversion tool available at http://www.nrcan.gc.ca/energy/publications/efficiency/buildings/5985 .
(aa)  Renewable energy includes Manitoba Hydro and Bullfrog Power green natural gas. 
(bb)  As of 2019, measuring energy used in the IG Real Property Fund, equal to 13,842,543 average square feet in 2021. New developments were included from the date of initial operation, while for purchased properties, data was estimated back to the 2013 baseline, based 
on their earliest available data. This methodology is in line with GHG Protocol Guidance. 
(cc)  Waste generated from operations is from owned premises only. Weight is estimated by the third-party disposal contractor.
(dd)  Includes owned and leased properties for operations. Does not include properties from investments – see footnote (bb). 
(ee)  Square footage is amended as needed based on updates and recent measurings. Where no specific reason exists for a change in area (expansion, etc.), the change is made for all years from 2013–2021. 
(ff)  Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions are consolidated based on a financial control approach.
(gg)  GHG emissions include emissions from the Canadian operations of IGM Financial and its operating companies and investments stated in footnote (bb), using a base year of 2013 – our first public year of reporting. The GHG Protocol was used. We applied global warming 
potentials from the National Inventory Report 1990–2020: Greenhouse Gas Sources and Sinks in Canada (Ottawa: Environment Canada, 2022).
(hh)  Beginning in 2015, emissions from Scope 1 and Scope 3 natural gas are calculated based on the purchase of Bullfrog renewable natural gas renewable energy credits.
APPENDIX Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices 71
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportGRI Index 
GRI Standard Disclosure Response
GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
102-1: Name of the organization IGM Financial Inc.
102-2: Activities, brands, products, and services 2021 Sustainability Report – About IGM (Page 5)
2021 Annual Information Form – Corporate Structure (Page 5)
2021 Annual Information Form – Description of Business (Page 6)
102-3: Location of headquarters 2021 Sustainability Report – About IGM (Page 5)
102-4: Location of operations 2021 Sustainability Report – About IGM (Page 5)
102-5: Ownership and legal form 2021 Annual Information Form – Corporate Structure (Page 5)
2021 Annual Information Form – Description of Business (Page 6)
102-6: Markets served 2021 Sustainability Report – About IGM (Page 5)
102-7: Scale of the organization 2021 Sustainability Report – About IGM (Page 5)
2021 Annual Information Form – Corporate Structure (Page 5)
2021 Annual Information Form – Description of Business (Page 6)
102-8: Information on employees and other workers 2021 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Talent (Pages 64–65)
102-9: Supply chain 2021 Sustainability Report – About IGM (Page 5)
2021 Annual Information Form – Corporate Structure (Page 5)
2021 Annual Information Form – Description of Business (Page 6)
102-10: Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 2021 Annual Information Form – Description of Business (Page 6)
2021 Annual Information Form – Development of Business Over the Last Three Years (Page 7)
102-11: Precautionary principle or approach 2021 Sustainability Report – Risk management (Page 42)2021 Sustainability Report – Risk management – Managing environmental and social risks (Page 44)2021 Sustainability Report – TCFD Report (Pages 81–84)
2021 Annual Report – Risk Management (Pages 70–84)
102-12: External initiatives 2021 Sustainability Report – Sustainable Development Goals (Page 15)
2021 Sustainability Report – Ethics and compliance (Page 41)
2021 Sustainability Report – GRI Index, SASB Index, TCFD Report (Pages 71–84)
Recognition and commitments
APPENDIX Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices 72
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportGRI Standard Disclosure Response
102-13: Membership of associations2021 Sustainability Report – Ethics and compliance (Page 41)
Recognition and commitments
102-14: Statement from most senior decision-maker 2021 Sustainability Report – Message from our CEO (Page 7)
102-16: Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour Corporate Sustainability Statement
2021 Sustainability Report – Ethics and compliance (Page 39)
IGM Financial Code of Business Conduct
Supplier Code of Conduct
102-17: Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 2021 Sustainability Report – Ethics and compliance (Page 39)
Whistleblower Policy
IGM Financial Code of Business Conduct
102-18: Governance structure 2021 Sustainability Report – Corporate governance – Sustainability governance (Page 37)
2021 Management Proxy Circular – Statement of Corporate Governance Practices – Board and Committee 
Mandates (Page 73)
102-19: Delegating authority 2021 Sustainability Report – Corporate governance – Sustainability governance (Page 37)
2021 Sustainability Report – TCFD Report (Pages 81–84)
2021 Management Proxy Circular – Statement of Corporate Governance Practices – Board and Committee 
Mandates (Page 73)
102-20: Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics 2021 Sustainability Report – Corporate governance (Page 36)
2021 Sustainability Report – Corporate governance – Sustainability governance (Page 37)
102-22: Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 2021 Sustainability Report – Corporate governance – Sustainability governance (Page 37)
2021 Management Proxy Circular – Election of Directors (Pages 18–35)2021 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Governance (Page 60)
102-23: Chair of the highest governance body
2021 Management Proxy Circular – Election of Directors (Page 31)
102-24: Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 2021 Management Proxy Circular – Statement of Corporate Governance Practices – Nomination, Assessment 
of Directors and Diversity (Pages 79–82)
102-25: Conflicts of interest 2021 Sustainability Report – Corporate governance (Page 36)
2021 Sustainability Report – Ethics and compliance (Page 39)
2021 Management Proxy Circular – Statement of Corporate Governance Practices – Ethical Business Conduct 
(Page 78)
Statement of Corporate Governance Practices
102-26: Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values and strategy 2021 Sustainability Report – Corporate governance (Page 36)
2021 Sustainability Report – Corporate governance – Sustainability governance (Page 37)
APPENDIX Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices 73
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportGRI Standard Disclosure Response
102-27: Collective knowledge of highest governance body2021 Management Proxy Circular – Statement of Corporate Governance Practices – Nomination, Assessment 
of Directors and Diversity (Pages 79–82)
102-29: Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts 2021 Sustainability Report – Risk management (Page 42)
2021 Sustainability Report – Risk management – Managing environmental and social risks (Page 44)
2021 Annual Report – Risk Management (Pages 70–84)
102-30: Effectiveness of risk management processes 2021 Sustainability Report – Risk management (Pages 42–44)2021 Sustainability Report – TCFD Report (Pages 81–84)
2021 Annual Report – Risk Management (Pages 70–84)
102-31: Review of economic, environmental and social topics 2021 Sustainability Report – Risk management – Managing environmental and social risks (Page 44)2021 Sustainability Report – TCFD Report (Pages 81–84)
2021 Annual Report – Risk Management (Pages 70–84)
2021 Management Proxy Circular – Statement of Corporate Governance Practices – Board and Committee 
Mandates (Page 73)
102-32: Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 2021 Sustainability Report – Corporate governance – Sustainability governance (Page 37)
102-33: Communicating critical concerns 2021 Sustainability Report – Corporate governance – Sustainability governance (Page 37)
102-34: Nature and number of critical concerns 2021 Sustainability Report – Corporate governance – Sustainability governance (Page 37)
102-35: Remuneration policies 2021 Management Proxy Circular – Compensation of Directors (Pages 36–38)
2021 Management Proxy Circular – Executive Compensation (Pages 40–46)
102-36: Process for determining remuneration 2021 Management Proxy Circular – Compensation of Directors (Pages 36–38)2021 Management Proxy C ircular – Execu tive Compensation (Pages 40–46)
102-40: List of stakeholder groups 2021 Sustainability Report – Stakeholder engagement (Pages 16–18)
102-41: Collective bargaining agreements 2021 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Talent – Collective bargaining agreements (Page 66)
102-42: Identifying and selecting stakeholders 2021 Sustainability Report – Stakeholder engagement (Pages 16–18)
Stakeholders are identified as any person or organization influential to our success or potentially impacted by 
our activities.
102-43: Approach to stakeholder engagement 2021 Sustainability Report – Material ESG topics (Page 13)
2021 Sustainability Report – Stakeholder engagement (Pages 16–18)2021 Sustainability Report – Building financial confidence (Page 21)2021 Sustainability Report – Corporate governance – Sustainability governance (Page 37)2021 Sustainability Report – Talent and culture – Engaging our employees (Page 50)2021 Sustainability Report – Community support (Page 54)
APPENDIX Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices 74
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportGRI Standard Disclosure Response
102-44: Key topics and concerns raised 2021 Sustainability Report – Material ESG topics (Page 13)
2021 Sustainability Report – Sustainability strategy (Page 14)2021 Sustainability Report – Stakeholder engagement (Pages 16–18)
102-45: Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 2021 Sustainability Report – About this report (Page 4)
2021 Annual Report – Management’s Discussion and Analysis – IGM Financial Inc. (Pages 19–21)
102-46: Defining report content and topic boundaries 2021 Sustainability Report – About this report (Page 4)2021 Sustainability Report – Material ESG topics (Page 13)
102-47: List of material topics 2021 Sustainability Report – Material ESG topics (Page 13)22021 Sustainability Report – Sustainability strategy (Page 14)
102-48: Restatements of information 2021 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Footnote ‘w’ (Pages 69 and 70) 
102-49: Changes in reporting 2021 Sustainability Report – About this report (Page 4)
102-50: Reporting period 2021 Sustainability Report – About this report (Page 4)
102-51: Date of most recent report May 2021
102-52: Reporting cycle 2021 Sustainability Report – About this report (Page 4)
102-53: Contact point for questions regarding the report 2021 Sustainability Report – About this report (Page 4)
102-54: Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 2021 Sustainability Report – About this report (Page 4)
102-55: GRI Content Index This table is the GRI Content Index.
102-56: External assurance 2021 Sustainability Report – About this report (Page 4)
APPENDIX Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices 75
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportGRI Standard Disclosure Response
SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES: ECONOMIC
Economic Performance 201-103: Management approach 2021 Sustainability Report – Creating shared value (Page 6)2021 Sustainability Report – Risk management – Managing environmental and social risks (Page 44)2021 Sustainability Report – TCFD Report (Pages 81–84)
2021 Management Proxy Circular
CDP Response
201-1: Direct economic value generated and distributed 2021 Sustainability Report – Creating shared value (Page 6)
2021 Annual Report – Consolidated Financial Statements (Page 91)
201-2: Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to 
climate change2021 Sustainability Report – Risk management – Managing environmental and social risks (Page 44)
2021 Sustainability Report – TCFD Report (Pages 81–84)
CDP Response
201-3: Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 2021 Annual Report – Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates – Employee benefits (Page 88)
2021 Annual Report – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies – Employee benefits (Page 104)
2021 Annual Report – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Employee benefits (Page 114)
Indirect Economic Impacts 203-103: Management approach 2021 Sustainability Report – Creating shared value (Page 6)
2021 Sustainability Report – Building financial confidence (Pages 21–23)2021 Sustainability Report – Advancing sustainable investing (Pages 24–28)
2021 Management Proxy Circular – Statement of Corporate Governance Practices – Board and Committee 
Mandates (Page 73)
203-2: Significant indirect economic impacts 2021 Sustainability Report – Creating shared value (Page 6)
2021 Sustainability Report – Building financial confidence (Pages 21–23)2021 Sustainability Report – Advancing sustainable investing (Pages 24–28)
Anti-corruption 205-103: Management approach 2021 Sustainability Report – Ethics and compliance (Page 39)2021 Sustainability Report – Ethics and compliance – Anti-corruption and anti-bribery (Page 40)
2021 Management Proxy Circular – Statement of Corporate Governance Practices – Ethical Business Conduct 
(Page 78)
Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Policy
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies  
and procedures2021 Sustainability Report – Ethics and compliance – Anti-corruption and anti-bribery (Page 40)
2021 Management Proxy Circular – Statement of Corporate Governance Practices – Ethical Business Conduct 
(Page 78)
Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Policy
APPENDIX Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices 76
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportGRI Standard Disclosure Response
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 2021 Sustainability Report – Ethics and compliance – Anti-corruption and anti-bribery (Page 40)
2021 Annual Information Form – Legal Proceedings and Regulatory Actions (Page 15)
SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES: ENVIRONMENTAL
Energy 302-103: Management approach 2021 Sustainability Report – Advancing sustainable investing (Pages 24–28)
2021 Sustainability Report – Risk management – Managing environmental and social risks (Page 44)2021 Sustainability Report – Environmental footprint (Pages 56–58)
CDP Response
Environmental Policy
302-1: Energy consumption within the organization 2021 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Environment – Energy (Page 69)
302-2: Energy consumption outside the organization 2021 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Environment – Energy (Page 69)
302-3: Energy intensity 2021 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Environment – Energy (Page 69)
302-4: Reduction of energy consumption 2021 Sustainability Report – Environmental footprint (Pages 56–58)
CDP Response
Emissions 306-103: Management approach 2021 Sustainability Report – Advancing sustainable investing (Pages 24–28)2021 Sustainability Report – Risk management – Managing environmental and social risks (Page 44)2021 Sustainability Report – Environmental footprint (Pages 56–58)2021 Sustainability Report – TCFD Report (Pages 81–84)
CDP Response
Environmental Policy
305-1: Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 2021 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Environment – Emissions (Page 70)
305-2: Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 2021 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Environment – Emissions (Page 70)
305-3: Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 2021 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Environment – Emissions (Page 70)
305-4: Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 2021 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Environment – Emissions (Page 70)
305-5: Reduction GHG emissions 2021 Sustainability Report – Environmental footprint (Pages 56–58)
CDP Response
APPENDIX Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices 77
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportGRI Standard Disclosure Response
MATERIAL TOPIC: SOCIAL
Employment 401-103: Management approach 2021 Sustainability Report – Risk management – Managing environmental and social risks (Page 44)
2021 Sustainability Report – Talent and culture (Page 48–53)
401-1: New employee hires and employee turnover 2021 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Talent – Employee turnover (Page 66)
401-2: Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 
temporary or part-time employees2021 Sustainability Report – Talent and culture – Health and wellness (Page 49)
2021 Management Proxy Circular – Executive Compensation – Retirement Plan Benefits (Pages 65–67)
401-3: Parental leave 2021 Annual Report – IGM Financial Inc. – Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies (Page 87)
2021 Sustainability Report – Talent and culture – Health and wellness (Page 49)
Training and Education 404-103: Management approach 2021 Sustainability Report – Risk management – Managing environmental and social risks (Page 44)2021 Sustainability Report – Talent and culture (Pages 48–50)
404-2: Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance 
programs2021 Sustainability Report – Talent and culture (Pages 51–52)
404-3: Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews2021 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Talent – Training and education (Page 66)
Diversity and Equal Opportunity405-103: Management approach 2021 Sustainability Report – Risk management – Managing environmental and social risks (Page 44)
2021 Sustainability Report – Accelerating DE&I in finance (Pages 29–34)
405-1: Diversity of governance bodies and employees  2021 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Talent – Diversity, equity and inclusion (Pages 67–68)
Public Policy 415-103: Management approach 2021 Sustainability Report – Ethics and compliance (Pages 39–41)
IGM Financial Lobbying Policy
415-1: Political contributions 2021 Sustainability Report – Ethics and compliance – Political involvement and lobbying (Page 40)
2021 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Ethics and compliance – Political contributions (Page 61)
Marketing and Labeling 417-103: Management approach 2021 Sustainability Report – Material ESG topics (Page 13)2021 Sustainability Report – Ethics and compliance (Pages 39–41)2021 Sustainability Report – Information security and privacy – Privacy (Page 47)
2021 Annual Report – Wealth Management – Review of the Business (Pages 33–41)
IGM Privacy Policy
417-1: Requirements for product and service information and labeling 2021 Sustainability Report – Ethics and compliance – Responsible marketing and sales (Page 41)
417-2: Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service 
information and labeling2021 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Ethics and compliance (Page 61)
417-3: Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications2021 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Ethics and compliance (Page 61)
APPENDIX Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices 78
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportGRI Standard Disclosure Response
Customer Privacy 418-103: Management approach 2021 Sustainability Report – Information security and privacy (Pages 45–47)
2021 Annual Report – Risk Management – Technology and Cyber Risk (Page 77)
IGM Privacy Policy
418-1: Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer 
privacy and losses of customer data2021 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Ethics and compliance (Page 61)
Socioeconomic Compliance 419-103: Management approach 2021 Sustainability Report – Corporate governance – Sustainability governance (Page 37)
2021 Sustainability Report – Ethics and compliance (Page 39)
IGM Financial Code of Business Conduct
419-1: Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and 
economic area2021 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Ethics and compliance (Page 61)
2021 Annual Information Form – Legal Proceedings and Regulatory Actions (Page 15)
SECTOR DISCLOSURES
Product Portfolio PP-103: Management approach 2021 Sustainability Report – Advancing sustainable investing (Pages 24–28)
2021 Annual Report – Wealth Management – Review of the Business (Pages 33–41)
G4-FS6: Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, 
size (e.g., micro/SME/large) and by sector2021 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Sustainable investing (Page 63)
G4-FS7: Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each business line broken down by purpose2021 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Sustainable investing (Page 63)
Active Ownership AO-103: Management approach 2021 Sustainability Report – Advancing sustainable investing (Pages 24–28)
2021 Annual Report – Wealth Management – Review of the Business (Pages 33–41)
IG Wealth Management Sustainable Investing Policy
Mackenzie Investments Sustainable Investing Policy
Counsel Portfolio Services Sustainable Investing Policy
IG Wealth Management PRI Transparency Report
Mackenzie Investments PRI Transparency Report
G4-FS10: Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio with which the reporting organization has interacted on environmental or social issues 2021 Sustai nability Report – Advancing sustainable investing (Pages 24–28)
2021 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Sustainable investing (Page 63)
IG Wealth Management PRI Transparency ReportMackenzie Investments PRI Transparency Report
G4-FS11: Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative 
environmental or social screening2021 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Sustainable investing (Page 63)
APPENDIX Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices 79
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportGRI Standard Disclosure Response
Product and Service 
Labeling PSL-103: Management approach 2021 Sustainability Report – Building financial confidence (Pages 21–23)
2021 Sustainability Report – Ethics and compliance (Pages 39–41)2021 Annual Report – Strategic Investments and Other – Consolidated Financial Position (Pages 62–63)
G4-FS15: Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and 
services2021 Sustainability Report – Building financial confidence (Pages 21–23) 
2021 Sustainability Report – Ethics and compliance (Pages 39–41)
G4-FS16: Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary 2021 Sustainability Report – Building financial confidence (Pages 21–23)
APPENDIX Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices 80
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportSASB  Index 
Asset Management & Custody Activities Sustainability Accounting Standard
SASB Topic SASB Code Accounting Metric Category Response
Transparent Information 
& Fair Advice for CustomersFN-AC-270a.2 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with marketing and communication of financial product related information to new and returning customers Quantitative 2021 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Ethics and compliance (Page 61) 
FN-AC-270a.3 Description of approach to informing customers about products  
and services Discussion and Analysis 2021 Sustainability Report – Ethics and compliance (Page 39) 2021 Sustainability Report – Responsible marketing and sales and Knowing our clients and products (Page 41)2021 Sustainability Report – Privacy (Page 47) 
Employee Diversity & InclusionFN-AC-330a.1 Percentage of gender and racial/ethnic group representation  
for (1) executive management, (2) non-executive management,  
(3) professionals, and (4) all other employeesQuantitative 2021 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Diversity, equity and inclusion (Page 67) 
Incorporation of Environmental, Social, and Governance Factors in Investment Management & AdvisoryFN-AC-410a.1 Amount of assets under management, by asset class, that employ  
(1) integration of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) issues, (2) sustainability themed investing, and (3) screening Quantitative
IG Wealth Management PRI Transparency ReportMackenzie Investments PRI Transparency Report
FN-AC-410a.2 Description of approach to incorporation of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) factors in investment and/or wealth management processes and strategies Discussion and Analysis
2021 Sustainability Report – Advancing sustainable investing (Page 24)IG Wealth Management Sustainable Investing PolicyMackenzie Investments Sustainable Investing PolicyCounsel Portfolio Services Sustainable Investing PolicyIG Wealth Management PRI Transparency ReportMackenzie Investments PRI Transparency ReportFN-AC-410a.3 Description of proxy voting and investee engagement policies  
and procedures Discussion and Analysis
Business EthicsFN-AC-510a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with fraud, insider trading, anti-trust, anti-competitive behaviour, market manipulation, malpractice, or other related financial industry laws or regulations Quantitative 2021 Sustainability Report – ESG Data Table – Ethics and compliance (Page 61) 
FN-AC-510a.2 Description of whistleblower policies and procedures Discussion and Analysis
2021 Sustainability Report – Ethics and compliance (Page 39)Whistleblower Policy
Activity MetricsFN-AC-000.B Total AUM Quantitative $277.1B in Assets Under Management and Advisement at  
December 31, 2021. 
APPENDIX Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices 81
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportTCFD  Report
We believe that financial services companies have an important role to play in addressing climate change, which is why we support the TFCD 
recommendations. We recognize that full implementation of TCFD will be a multi-year journey for IGM and our operating companies, involving various business areas including enterprise risk management, corporate sustainability, investment management and financial reporting. 
Here is a summary of our approach in line with the TCFD recommendations, including the supplemental guidance for asset managers:
TCFD Topic Our IGM Approach
GOVERNANCE: Disclose the organization’s governance around climate-related risks and opportunities
Describe the Board’s 
oversight of climate-related risks and opportunitiesIGM’s Board is responsible for providing oversight on risk and strategy, which includes sustainability and climate-related matters. 
Our Board has approved a Corporate Sustainability Statement  which formalizes our longstanding commitment to sustainability. The Board meets with 
management at least annually to discuss plans and emerging ESG issues, including climate.Through its Risk Committee, the Board is responsible for ensuring that material ESG and climate-related risks are appropriately identified, managed and  
monitored. Its responsibilities include ensuring that appropriate procedures are in place to identify and manage risks and establish risk tolerances; ensuring that appropriate policies, procedures and controls are implemented to manage risks; and reviewing the risk management process on a regular basis to confirm that it is functioning effectively.
Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunitiesThe senior-most leaders at each of our operating companies have primary ownership and accountability for the ongoing climate risk and opportunity management associated with their respective activities. 
IGM’s Sustainability Committee is composed of senior executives who are responsible for ensuring implementation of policy and strategy, establishing goals and 
initiatives, measuring progress, and approving annual reporting of ESG matters. The coordination and implementation of the program is carried out by IGM’s Corporate Sustainability Team. Our executive Risk Management Committee is responsible for oversight of the risk management process, including climate risks. Our Chief Financial Officer oversees implementation of the corporate sustainability and enterprise risk management programs. 
We have established a cross-functional, enterprise-wide TCFD Working Group of senior leaders to lead the planning and implementation of the TCFD 
recommendations. The group is focused on enhancing our knowledge and tools to quantify climate risks in tandem with our industry; further integrating  
climate into our business strategy, operations and product offerings; evolving our engagement approach with investee companies; and addressing increased disclosure expectations.
The Mackenzie Sustainability Steering Committee is chaired by the Head of Sustainable Investing with executive membership from across IGM and Mackenzie, 
including the Mackenzie President and CEO, and Co-Chief Investment Officers. The committee is responsible for approving and governing corporate and sustainability related policies; approval and oversight for investment stewardship priorities, including climate; approval and monitoring for targets related to climate change; and evaluation of progress relative to key performance indicators, strategy roadmap and the market.
The IG Wealth Management Sustainable Investment Committee is chaired by the Senior Vice-President, IG Investments and is composed of senior leaders across 
IG Wealth Management and IGM Financial. The committee is responsible for reviewing and approving sustainable investing and ESG matters brought forward to the committee. Sustainable investing matters include, but are not limited to, establishing beliefs, defining strategies/approach, consideration of new product needs, evaluating and considering climate-related risks and opportunities, monitoring industry developments, liaison with internal and external stakeholders, oversight of operational execution, research of service providers/tools, and communication with employees, consultants and clients.»    Our support for TCFD 
is also aligned with 
our longstanding commitment to participate in the annual CDP survey, which promotes corporate disclosures on GHG emissions and climate change management. For the past five years, we were recognized by CDP as a corporate leader in climate change disclosure.
APPENDIX Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices 82
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportTCFD Topic Our IGM Approach
STRATEGY: Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy and financial planning where such  
information is material
Describe the climate-related 
risks and opportunities the organization has identified over the short-, medium-,  and long-termThrough IGM’s wealth and asset management businesses the company plays a critical role in the global transition to a low-carbon economy. IGM has detailed its climate commitments in a position statement on our website, with a focus on three key areas:
1. Investing in a greener, climate resilient economy – Our investment processes and products give us the opportunity to manage climate risks and create innovative solutions to our ongoing climate 
issues.
2. Collaborating and engaging to help shape the global transition – We play a vital role in bringing climate-smart investment advice and solutions to clients, helping companies adapt, and 
participating in industry and policy advancements.
3. Demonstrating alignment through our corporate actions –  We will hold ourselves to a similar standard that we expect from the companies we invest in and empower our employees to stand 
behind our commitments.
Our operating companies are active participants in collaborative industry groups that support our climate commitments and are aimed at improving climate change governance, reducing emissions and 
strengthening climate-related financial disclosures. IGM Financial also joined the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF) to support the journey to measure and disclose the GHG emissions associated with our mortgage loans and investments. 
Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy and financial planningClimate-related risks and opportunities are identified and assessed within IGM through our business planning processes that define our strategic priorities, initiatives and budgets. Our climate-related risks and opportunities can be grouped into the physical impacts of climate change and the impacts related to the transition to a low-carbon economy. 
RisksOur climate risks relate primarily to the potential for physical or transition risks to: negatively affect the performance of our clients’ investments, resulting in reduced fee revenue; harm our reputation; 
create market risks through shifts in product demand; or lead to new regulatory, legal or disclosure requirements that could affect our business. Diversification within and across our investment portfolios aids in managing exposure to any one company, sector or geographic region that might be exposed to climate-related risks.
We are also exposed to the impact of extreme weather events on our corporate properties which could lead to business disruption, and on the valuations of investment properties and client 
mortgages, which if not addressed proactively, could affect financial performance and the ability to use the assets long-term.
Our operating companies are committed to sustainable investing programs and policies that include a focus on climate risk. We provide data and tools for our investment teams to carry out current 
and forward-looking climate analysis and we integrate material climate risks into our investment and oversight processes for investment management sub-advisors. As part of the hiring process and ongoing assessment of sub-advisors, our teams request information about how ESG, including climate risks and opportunities, is resourced, what processes and tools are used, metrics and targets, and how strategy and governance are influenced. As we continue to implement the TCFD recommendations, we are devoting increased resources to areas such as training, analysis, metrics, target-setting, strategy planning and working collaboratively with organizations. 
OpportunitiesWe are focused on meeting growing demand for sustainable investing and the opportunity to invest in the transition to a net-zero economy. We are also increasing our focus on educating and 
communicating with clients and advisors on sustainable investing and climate change.
At Mackenzie, sustainable investing is an area of strategic emphasis, and we have established a dedicated team of nine experts within Mackenzie’s Sustainability Centre of Excellence who bring focus 
to ESG and climate across the organization. Mackenzie has an investment boutique, Greenchip, which focuses exclusively on thematic investing to combat climate change. In 2021, Mackenzie launched the Betterworld Team, which invests in companies that are making a positive impact on the people and the planet, and expanded its suite of climate offerings through the addition of the Mackenzie Greenchip Global Balanced Fund, the Mackenzie Global Sustainable Bond ETF, and the Mackenzie Global Green Bond Fund.
At IG, we have integrated environmental and climate issues into our sub-advisory selection and oversight processes, and product development strategy. In 2021, IG launched its Climate Action Portfolios, a 
suite of four diversified managed solutions that aim to provide clients with the opportunity to support and benefit from the global transition to net-zero emissions.
APPENDIX Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices 83
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportTCFD Topic Our IGM Approach
Describe the resilience of the 
organization’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenarioWe have implemented a tool to enhance our quantitative assessment of climate risks in our investment funds by analyzing emissions and other climate-related information at the investee company and portfolio levels. This system enables us to model potential transition pathways and track our portfolios against the goal of limiting global warming to 2°C above pre-industrial levels, and examine the adequacy of emissions reductions over time in meeting the goals of the Paris Agreement.
We are exploring scenario analysis tools with external data providers to support us in our efforts to run climate-related scenario analysis across our business.
Describe how risks and 
opportunities are factored into relevant products or investment strategies and describe related transition impactIG and Mackenzie, and their investment sub-advisors, are signatories to the PRI. Under the PRI, investors formally commit to incorporate ESG issues, including climate change, into their investment decision making and active ownership processes. In addition, IG, Mackenzie and IPC have implemented sustainable investing policies outlining the practices at their respective companies.
We also offer a number of thematic and impact funds addressing ESG and climate-related considerations, consistent with our strategy to offer a broad number of investment options for our clients.
RISK MANAGEMENT: Disclose how the organization identifies, assesses and manages climate-related risks
Describe the organization’s 
processes for identifying and assessing climate-related riskAssessment and management of climate-related risks is integrated into our ERM Framework.
We use a consistent methodology across our organizations and business units for identification and assessment of risks, considering factors both internal and external to the organization. These risks are 
broadly grouped into five categories: financial, operational, strategic, business, and environmental and social (including climate change risks). We are increasingly focused on defining the relationship of climate risk to other material risks.
Risks are assessed by evaluating the impact and likelihood of the potential risk event after consideration of controls and any risk transfer activities. The results of these assessments are considered relative 
to risk appetite and tolerances and may result in action plans to adjust the risk profile. Risk assessments are monitored and reviewed on an ongoing basis by business units and by oversight areas including the ERM department. The ERM department promotes and coordinates communication and consultation to support effective risk management and escalation. It regularly reports on the results of risk assessments and on the assessment process to the Risk Management Committee and to the Board of Directors.
At Mackenzie, each boutique investment team is responsible for determining when and how climate transition and physical risks are material, and for incorporating these risks into their investment process. 
At IG and IPC, management evaluates the sustainable investing practices of investment manager sub-advisors, including the integration of climate risks into their investment and active ownership practice.Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-related risks
Describe how processes for 
identifying, assessing and managing climate-related risks are integrated into the organization’s overall risk management
Describe how material  
climate-related risks are 
identified and assessed for each product or investment strategy
Describe how material 
climate-related risks are managed for each product or investment strategy
APPENDIX Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices 84
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportTCFD Topic Our IGM Approach
Describe engagement activity 
with investee companies to encourage better disclosure and practices related to climate-related risks in order to improve data availability and asset managers’ ability to assess climate-related risksTo maximize stewardship efforts, engagement at Mackenzie is undertaken both internally and by a third-party engagement specialist where climate change is a priority engagement topic. At IPC, a pooled engagement service provider is used to work with companies to enhance corporate behaviour and strategy related to topics including climate change. At IG, investment management sub-advisors, including Mackenzie, are responsible for engagement activities and IG monitors their practices as part of regular due diligence and oversight.
Mackenzie is a founding participant in Climate Engagement Canada and participates in CERES’ Investor Network on Climate Risk. Both Mackenzie and IG joined Climate Action 100+ and became 
founding signatories to the Canadian Investor Statement on Climate Change.
METRICS AND TARGETS: Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities where such information is material
Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate- related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management processWe set, monitor and report on climate change-related metrics and targets annually in our detailed CDP response and our Sustainability Report.
At Mackenzie, each boutique investment team is responsible for integrating ESG into its investment process, including determining appropriate GHG emissions and other metrics to assess climate-related 
risks and opportunities in investment strategies. The teams have access to ESG data tools and metrics to support their assessment.
We report Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions, where possible, including a portion of our Scope 3 investment emissions. We are continuing to expand and enhance our measurement and reporting of 
emissions related to our investment portfolios as tools and information improves.
Our GHG Statement for the year ended December 31, 2021 was independently assured by PwC.PwC performed a limited assurance engagement over the following: total Scope 1 emissions, total Scope 2 emissions and business travel (air and ground) Scope 3 emissions.Describe metrics used to 
assess climate-related risks and opportunities in each product or investment strategy
Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, 
if appropriate, Scope 3 GHG emissions, and the related risks
Asset managers should provide 
the weighted average carbon intensity, where data are available or can be reasonably estimated, for each product or investment strategy
Describe the targets used by  
the organization to manage 
climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against targetsThrough IGM’s Climate Position Statement, we have set a target to be climate neutral in our corporate offices and travel by 2022. We also commit to setting interim targets for investment portfolios, consistent with the global ambition to achieve net-zero emissions by 2050. 
As such, Mackenzie joined the Net Zero Asset Managers Initiative and will set, by the end of 2022, an interim investment target in line with the attainment of net-zero emissions by 2050.
APPENDIX Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices 85
IGM Financial 2021 Sustainability ReportForward-looking  statements 
Certain statements in this report, other than statements of 
historical fact, are forward-looking statements based on certain assumptions and reflect IGM Financial’s current expectations. Forward-looking statements are provided to assist the reader in understanding the Company’s financial position and results of operations as at and for the periods ended on certain dates and to present information about management’s current expectations and plans relating to the future. Readers are cautioned that such statements may not be appropriate for other purposes. These statements may include, without limitation, statements regarding the operations, business, financial condition, expected financial results, performance, prospects, opportunities, priorities, targets, goals, ongoing objectives, strategies and outlook of the Company, as well as the outlook for North American and international economies, for the current fiscal year and subsequent periods. Forward-looking statements include statements that are predictive in nature, depend upon or refer to future events or conditions, or include words such as “expects”, “anticipates”, “plans”, “believes”, “estimates”, “seeks”, “intends”, “targets”, “projects”, “forecasts” or negative versions thereof and other similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as “may”, “will”, “should”, “would” and “could”.
This information is based upon certain material factors or 
assumptions that were applied in drawing a conclusion or making a forecast or projection as reflected in the forward-looking statements, including the perception of historical trends, current conditions and expected future developments, as well as other factors that are believed to be appropriate in the circumstances. While the Company considers these assumptions to be reasonable based on information currently available to management, they may prove to be incorrect.By its nature, this information is subject to inherent risks and uncertainties that may be general or specific and which give rise to the possibility that expectations, forecasts, predictions, projections or conclusions will not prove to be accurate, that assumptions may not be correct and that objectives, strategic goals and priorities will not be achieved.
A variety of material factors, many of which are beyond the 
Company’s and its subsidiaries’ control, affect the operations, performance and results of the Company, and its subsidiaries, and their businesses, and could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations of estimated or anticipated events or results. These factors include, but are not limited to: the impact or unanticipated impact of general economic, political and market factors in North America and internationally, interest and foreign exchange rates, global equity and capital markets, management of market liquidity and funding risks, changes in accounting policies and methods used to report financial condition (including uncertainties associated with critical accounting assumptions and estimates), the effect of applying future accounting changes, operational and reputational risks, business competition, technological change, changes in government regulations and legislation, changes in tax laws, unexpected judicial or regulatory proceedings, catastrophic events, outbreaks of disease or pandemics (such as COVID-19), the Company’s ability to complete strategic transactions, integrate acquisitions and implement other growth strategies, and the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ success in anticipating and managing the foregoing factors.
The reader is cautioned that the foregoing list is not exhaustive of the factors that may affect any of the Company’s forward-looking statements. The reader is also cautioned to consider these and other factors, uncertainties and potential events carefully and not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements.
Other than as specifically required by applicable Canadian law, the 
Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statements are made, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, whether as a result of new information, future events or results, or otherwise.
Additional information about the risks and uncertainties of the 
Company’s business and material factors or assumptions on which information contained in forward-looking statements is based is provided in its disclosure materials, including the Management’s Discussion and Analysis and its most recent Annual Information Form, filed with the securities regulatory authorities in Canada, available at www.sedar.com .
APPENDIX Introduction Our sustainability approach Strategic priorities Responsible business practices 