2020  
Environmental, 
Social and 
Governance  
Report  
Mary Sue, Zio Patient2      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportMike CoyleA message from our CEO
Dear iRhythm Stakeholders,
We want to thank you for taking the time to read our inaugural 
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) report. As the Company 
continues to redefine the way cardiac arrhythmias are clinically 
diagnosed, we also understand the importance of how our corporate 
culture can play in achieving our goals. In these challenging times  
for our customers and our employees, building and sustaining  
a culture of integrity and accountability are foundational pillars  
by which we stand and ultimately prosper. 
3      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportIn our first report, we focus on the foundational work we have already 
accomplished to facilitate and foster a strong corporate culture. Areas  
of focus include the overriding importance of patient safety, our customers’ 
access to quality healthcare, established ethics and integrity programs,  
our commitment to diversity and equal opportunity, and our commitment 
to being good corporate citizens in the communities we serve. 
In conclusion, it’s important for our stakeholders to understand that this 
report is not the end, but rather, the beginning of a long, ongoing journey  
in our commitment to being a responsible corporate citizen. 
I look forward to keeping you updated on our progress.
Sincerely, 
Mike Coyle,  
CEO, iRhythm TechnologiesMike Coyle
4      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportContents 01. Company Overview, page 5
02. Human and Employee Relations, page 7
03. iRhythm’s Commitment to Ethical Conduct, page 25
04. Accessible and Affordable Healthcare for Patients and Clinicians, page 37
05. iRhythm’s Approach to Affordability and Pricing, page 42
06. iRhythm is Dedicated to Developing Safe Products for Patients, page 49
07. iRhythm’s Primary Focus has Always Been on Patient Safety, page 54
08. iRhythm Has an Environmentally Friendly Business Model, page 68
09. iRhythm Medical SASB Index, page 7301. Company Overview6      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportCompany Overview We are a digital healthcare company redefining the 
way cardiac arrhythmias are clinically diagnosed  
by combining our wearable biosensing technology 
with cloud-based data analytics and deep-learning 
capabilities. Our goal is to be the leading provider  
of ambulatory electrocardiogram (“ECG”) monitoring 
for patients at risk for arrhythmias. 
We have created a full portfolio of ambulatory  
cardiac monitoring services on a unique platform, 
called the Zio service, which combines an easy-to-
wear and unobtrusive biosensor that can be worn  
for up to 14 consecutive days with powerful 
proprietary algorithms that distill data from millions  
of heartbeats into clinically actionable information.  
We believe that the Zio service allows physicians  
to diagnose many arrhythmias more quickly and 
efficiently than traditional technologies and avoid 
multiple indeterminate tests. Early detection of heart 
rhythm disorders, such as atrial fibrillation (“AF”)  
and other clinically relevant arrhythmias,  allows for appropriate medical intervention and  
helps avoid more serious downstream medical events, 
including stroke. 
Since receiving clearance from the Food and Drug 
Administration (“FDA”) in 2009, we have provided  
the Zio service to over three million patients  
and have collected over 750 million hours of curated 
heartbeat data, creating what we believe to be  
the world’s largest repository of ambulatory ECG 
patient data. This data provides us with a competitive 
advantage by informing our proprietary deep-learned 
algorithms, which may enable operating efficiencies, 
gross margin improvement and business scalability.  
We believe the Zio service is well-aligned with  
the goals of the U.S. healthcare system: improving 
population health, enhancing the patient care 
experience, reducing per-capita cost, and improving 
the clinician experience.
02. Human and  
Employee Relations8      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportHuman and  
Employee Relations
At iRhythm, we are committed to maintaining  
a healthy, safe, and secure work environment that 
protects our employees and the public from harm.  
We use a multi-faceted approach to ensure the health 
and safety of our employees, from our Code of 
Conduct to our policies governing the way we act 
within and outside of iRhythm.To help us meet our mission, we have developed  
five core values which provide direction in our daily 
activities. These core values serve as a reminder  
of the way we will conduct our activities as we strive  
to transform our mission into reality.
9      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportHuman and  
Employee RelationsOur values guide how we accomplish our mission  
and treat each other and those we serve:
PASSION
We are passionate because we believe in what we  
are doing and where we are going. Our inspired 
determination drives our commitment to what we  
do and how we do it. 
BOUNDARYLESS
We are open to accepting and sharing ideas, 
knowledge, advice, and challenges. We evaluate new 
ideas and solutions with sincerity and honesty.
BOLD
We encourage thinking outside the box, trying  
new things, asking questions, and not being afraid  
to try something, fail, and learn from it.RESPECT
We hold ourselves, others, and the environment  
in the highest regard, and will act as such.
BALANCE
We encourage an atmosphere that fosters  
our team’s personal and professional development.  
We appreciate and respect the importance  
of all the different layers of people’s lives. 
 10      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportHuman and  
Employee RelationsOur commitment to health & safety
iRhythm complies with applicable health, safety,  
and environmental laws as well as related Company 
policies and procedures. We have a zero-tolerance 
policy against aggressive behavior, violence,  
direct and indirect threats, harassment, intimidation, 
and weapons. Moreover, we strive to conduct our 
everyday business activities in an environmentally 
sustainable way.
Respecting our team
At iRhythm, we are committed to ensuring our team 
members are treated with fairness and respect.  
We believe that a cooperative work environment, 
based in trust and mutual respect, is essential to our 
success. We embrace the diversity of our workforce 
and celebrate the creative value added by individuals 
with differing backgrounds. We expressly prohibit 
intimidation, hostility, harassment, discrimination,  
and other inappropriate behavior. Furthermore,  we expect associates to conduct themselves  
in a professional and dignified manner  
at all times; in doing so, we seek to avoid making 
associates feel uncomfortable at work.
Our commitment to fair and equal employment 
iRhythm is committed to providing a work 
environment that is free of discrimination and 
harassment. We are an equal-opportunity employer. 
We make employment decisions on the basis of a 
person’s qualifications, and our business needs.  
We believe in the richness and quality of a working 
environment that is informed by people from all walks 
of life and strive to create a genuinely inclusive 
environment. We respect our unique backgrounds  
and embrace our differences.  11      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportHuman and  
Employee RelationsWe do not tolerate harassment or discrimination  
on the basis of race, color, veteran status, religion, 
gender, sex, sexual orientation, age, mental or physical 
disability, medical condition, national origin, marital 
status, or any other characteristics protected under 
federal or state law or local ordinance. 
Employees who engage in acts of harassment, 
discrimination, or other inappropriate behavior are 
subject to corrective action that may include 
termination of employment; likewise, offending 
contractors and others operating on our behalf  
may lose our business.
All employees review and attest to our employee 
handbook and Code of Conduct upon hire and 
annually thereafter. Additional detail on policies within 
our employee handbook related to ensuring a healthy 
and safe iRhythm are included below: EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY POLICY
iRhythm provides equal employment opportunities  
to all employees and applicants without regard  
to race (including traits historically associated with 
race such as hair texture and protected hairstyles), 
color, religious creed, sex, national origin, ancestry, 
citizenship status, pregnancy, childbirth, physical 
disability, mental disability, age, military status  
or status as a Vietnam-era or special disabled  
veteran, marital status, registered domestic partner  
or civil union status, gender (including sex 
stereotyping and gender identity or expression), 
medical condition (including, but not limited to,  
cancer related and HIV/AIDS related), or sexual 
orientation in accordance with applicable federal, 
state, and local laws. 
In addition, iRhythm complies with applicable state 
and local laws governing nondiscrimination  
in employment in every location in which the 
Company has facilities. 12      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportHuman and  
Employee RelationsThis policy applies to all terms and conditions  
of employment, including, but not limited to, hiring, 
placement, promotion, termination, layoff,  
recall, transfer, leaves of absence, compensation,  
and training. 
ANTI-HARASSMENT POLICY
It is the policy of iRhythm to maintain a working 
environment that encourages mutual respect, 
promotes collaborative and congenial relationships 
between employees, and is free from all forms  
of harassment by anyone, including managers,  
co-workers, vendors, contractors, and customers. 
Harassment, even when not unlawful or directed  
at a protected category, is expressly prohibited,  
and will not be tolerated by iRhythm. 
Accordingly, management is committed to vigorously 
addressing complaints of harassment and sexual 
harassment at all levels within iRhythm. Reported or suspected occurrences of  
harassment will be promptly and thoroughly 
investigated. Following an investigation, iRhythm  
will immediately take any necessary and  
appropriate disciplinary action.
iRhythm will not permit or condone any acts  
of retaliation against anyone who files harassment 
complaints or cooperates in the investigation  
of same.
iRhythm has an Ethics Line that is available to all 
employees as a reporting mechanism. The Ethics Line 
is available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.  
A third-party hotline provider, Ethics Point, hosts  
the Ethics Line. Reports can be communicated to 
Ethics Point via phone (US: (844) 884-0117;  
UK: 0-800-89-0011) or a report can be can be filed  
via the online form at secure.ethicspoint.com/domain/
media/en/gui/62109/index.html.13      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportHuman and  
Employee RelationsOSHA numbers
Safety is an important priority at iRhythm as part of 
our total view on well-being. All employees are 
encouraged to immediately report any accidents, 
injuries, potential safety hazards, safety suggestions, 
and health and safety related issues via their manager, 
HR or our anonymous ethics reporting line. 
OSHA statistics
We are proud of our safety record. In 2020, we had  
no work-related injuries to report to the Occupational 
Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). However, 
we did report 16 events to OSHA, all of which were to 
report positive COVID-19 cases among our employees. 
Our internal protocol is to report all positive test 
results regardless of the evolving guidelines issued by 
OSHA throughout 2020. We have an internal, cross-
functional COVID response team that was assembled 
in early March 2020, where we have thoroughresponse protocols in place to support the  
ongoing health and safety of our team. 
To ensure the safety of our employees, we conduct 
routine safety training for each office including fire 
and disaster drills, AED training and for those whose 
roles require it, physical lifting techniques. 
Workplace accidents policy 
All accidents, injuries, potential safety hazards, safety 
suggestions, and health and safety related issues 
must be reported immediately to managers and/or 
Human Resources. If any employee is injured, outside 
emergency response agencies should be contacted,  
if needed. All first reports of injury claims should  
be reported within 24 hours, and ideally as soon as 
feasible after an injury has happened. 
Employees are encouraged to call or email  
Human Resources to quickly and easily report  
any work-related injury, 24 hours a day. 14      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportHuman and  
Employee RelationsCompensation policy
Our compensation philosophy is rooted in ensuring 
we can attract top talent, reward and recognize 
associates for the impact they are making, and align 
with our shareholders’ interests. Below are a few  
key principles we use to guide our compensation 
practices:
• Enable iRhythm to attract and retain  
high-caliber talent: offer compensation 
competitive to market and peers
• Emphasize merit-based compensation: provide  
a compensation package that is weighted heavily 
towards merit-based pay
• Reward achievement of iRhythm’s financial 
objectives: directly link rewards to the 
achievement of financial objectives that build 
long-term shareholder value• Recognize both corporate and individual 
performance: link rewards to measurable 
corporate performance with influence  
of individual performance 
• Align the interests of our executives  
with those of our stockholders: incentivize  
and reward the creation and preservation  
of shareholder value
Fair and consistent compensation practices are an 
important part of our compensation strategy. We use 
industry standard market data from Radford salary 
surveys to benchmark and review competitive market 
data across similar roles, geographies, companies  
and industries each year. We also partner with outside 
consultants to help us align our compensation 
strategy to specific frameworks rooted in data on  
an annual basis. In this process, we assess salary 
survey data to understand changes to broader market 
practices, monitor trends in the market and ensure15      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportHuman and  
Employee Relationswe remain competitive while also maintaining  
fair, consistent internal practices across levels,  
roles and geographies.
COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS
iRhythm is proud to offer an attractive mix of 
compensation and benefit plans to support our 
employees and their families’ physical, mental,  
and financial well-being. We believe that we employ  
a fair and merit-based total compensation  
system for our employees. Employees are generally eligible for medical,  
dental, vision and other comprehensive benefits,  
most of which become effective on their start date. 
Our medical, dental and vision offerings are  
available to full-time employees and their same-sex 
and opposite-sex domestic partners and dependents 
up to age 26. iRhythm covers a significant majority  
of the cost of our employee benefits, generally greater 
than 75% of premium costs, with some plans up to 
90%. All full time employees, whether hourly or 
salaried, have access to the same types of coverage 
options. Employees who work fewer than 30 hours per 
week, representing approximately 1% of our workforce, 
are eligible for a select set of benefits.16      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportHuman and  
Employee RelationsBelow are some of the types of health and wellness-
related benefits offered to iRhythm employees:
• Medical, dental and vision insurance
• Retirement plan with Company match
• Flexible Spending Accounts for medical 
expenses, childcare, parking and transit
• Health Savings Account (with iRhythm 
contribution)
• Life insurance
• Short & long-term disability
• Paid time off and leave of absences
• Employee assistance programIt is important that all employees have an opportunity 
to have an ownership interest in iRhythm, and there 
are several programs that provide a chance to  
own iRhythm stock. Generally, greater than 75% of our 
team participates in at least one of our stock 
programs. During their tenure with iRhythm, all 
employees have an opportunity to receive an equity 
award, either upon hire and/or during an annual review 
process to recognize those with significant impact  
on achieving our goals. Another program offered  
to all employees, whether part or full time, is the ability 
to participate in our Employee Stock Purchase Plan. 
Participants in the ESPP acquire iRhythm stock  
at a 15% discount to market price. We believe  
our discounted stock purchase program helps to  
build an ownership mentality amongst  
participating employees. 17      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportHuman and  
Employee RelationsStakeholder engagement
Feedback from our employees is an important 
contributor to determine where we prioritize internal 
areas of investment, growth and improvement.  
As a baseline, all employees have access to 
anonymously share feedback with us through our 
ethics line and through most other forms of feedback 
that we solicit. A few of the methods we use to solicit 
feedback and share information across iRhythm 
include surveys, regular company meetings,  
and our intranet.
 We solicit feedback through a variety of surveys 
across the employee lifecycle, a few of which include 
annual engagement surveys, during onboarding,  
and after company meetings. In the fall of 2019,  
we completed an engagement survey that measured 
our employee net promoter score plus solicited 
feedback on a few key areas related to communication 
effectiveness, access to tools to effectively work,  
and opportunities for development. Our response  rate was 61% of total employees, which we will 
continue to work to increase, and we shared feedback 
on outcomes with our employees at the end of the 
calendar year. Our employee net promoter score was 
in the average range, and consistently, 78% or more  
of survey respondents positively responded to the  
key areas noted above. The results of the engagement 
survey reinforced the importance of two investment 
areas in 2020, including an increased frequency  
of company communications and building more tools 
to support development opportunities.
 During the onboarding experience, we provide  
all new employees an opportunity to share about  
their experience, to gauge whether they are on track 
learning the business, their role and their team,  
as well as developing goals to guide their work.  
Survey participants provide greater than 75% positive 
validation that they are navigating the onboarding 
process at a high level of engagement, learning and 
alignment, which we want to consistently deliver.18      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportHuman and  
Employee RelationsIn order to connect with employees to share  
important updates on the business and reinforce  
our culture, we hold regular company meetings.  
We ensure there is time to respond to questions that 
come in from across the company and work to  
align the content we deliver to suggestions received 
from employees. After each meeting, we solicit 
feedback via survey to understand the value  
of information we have shared, collect suggestions  
for future content, and during 2020, measure  
the level of engagement across our team. During 
2020, we held more frequent meetings and solicited 
more frequent feedback to understand employee 
sentiment, given the ongoing impact of COVID-19, 
working remotely and the broader challenges 
employees continue to manage.Another key tool we have in place to foster 
communication and engagement is our companywide 
intranet. In April 2020, we launched an intranet  
to provide a centralized platform to share important 
business, culture and development resources with  
all employees. As we pivoted to the majority of 
employees working from home in the spring  
of 2020 due to COVID-19, the intranet has become  
a useful tool to provide our diverse employee 
population additional access to business information 
and resources for development and growth.19      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportHuman and  
Employee RelationsCORPORATE CITIZENSHIP
We are committed to supporting initiatives that 
improve our communities whether through corporate, 
team or individual participation. Our Culture 
Committee, made up of volunteers around iRhythm, 
organizes events to support and raise funds for a 
designated organization each year. In addition, 
iRhythm teams and offices contribute to local 
activities through volunteer and donations. In 2018, 
iRhythm employees and the Company donated over 
$40,000 to a variety of organizations, and in  
both 2019 and 2020, iRhythm employees and the  
Company donated over $100,000 each year. Below are just a few of the organizations we have 
worked with and/or contributed to financially:
• Make-A-Wish Foundation
• Charity Water
• American Heart Association
• Feed Our Starving Children
• Breast Cancer Awareness
• Lake County Haven (women’s & children shelter)
• Northern Illinois Food Bank
• Project C.U.R.E20      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportHuman and  
Employee RelationsWorkforce development
The growth and success of our employees is a top 
priority at iRhythm. We are investing heavily  
to build in-house tools and resources to support 
managers and employees on the road to success  
and ongoing growth.
WORKFORCE TRAINING
iRhythm offers a variety of training opportunities, 
whether focused on building vocational or 
management and leadership skills. Our sales and 
clinical training programs equip team members  
to perform specialized work to support our patients 
and customers. Our clinical training program  
consists of 80 hours of training upon hire, plus  
ongoing training opportunities to ensure quality  
and consistency standards in patient care.  Our commercial program provides 40 hours  
of product training and ongoing field and classroom 
education to prepare employees to support our 
customers with high quality service and support.
Our management and leadership skill building  
in 2020 was focused on coaching and core-manager 
skills. Despite the challenges of COVID-19 on our  
work location, we facilitated several online courses 
around our core competencies and coaching 
practices, and we rolled out a toolbox on our intranet  
with tools for employees and managers across  
the employee lifecycle. 21      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportHuman and  
Employee RelationsDiversity & equal opportunity
STRATEGIES & POLICIES
At iRhythm, we have always valued our differences, 
recognizing that from those differences comes our 
strengths, and we are committed to continuing to 
build a culture of diversity, equity, and inclusion.  
We are deeply committed to our core values and have 
no tolerance for anything less. And while we are 
extremely proud of our diversity today, we know there 
is more to be done. We will continue to strengthen  
our practices around attracting, developing  
and engaging our team to reflect that commitment. In response to the events in 2020 related to ongoing 
social injustice, iRhythm has heeded the call to action. 
In the summer of 2020, we spoke directly about the 
events that transpired after a period of reflection,  
and we have continued to spend time in Company 
updates and trainings reinforcing our core values and 
policies to support a safe environment for all. We also 
committed to provide a total of $100,000 to support 
several local organizations providing resources for 
underrepresented and underserved groups. 22      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportHuman and  
Employee RelationsOrganization recommendations were brought to us  
by our employees. By the end of 2020, we made 
contributions to 11 groups, both local and national
Additionally, in the summer and fall of 2020,  
we conducted focus groups with 10% of our teams  
to better understand where we are today and  
where we need to be going in order to build a more 
diverse, equitable and inclusive iRhythm.  
As of the end of 2020, we have assembled a team  
of volunteers from within iRhythm to collaborate  
on action plans in a few key areas based on  
feedback received. This group will help us build a roadmap across  
the employee experience to ensure we continue  
to build a strong culture of diversity, equity,  
and inclusion. 
The following page contains a few data points  
that represent our diversity across gender  
and ethnicity:23      Zio by iRhythm ESG Report2018
447 (57%) 335 (43%)Women MenHEADCOUNT BY GENDER
HEADCOUNT BY ETHNICITY
 White, 50%
 Asian, 16%
 Black or African American, 14%
 Hispanic or Latino, 12%
 Other, 8%
HEADCOUNT BY GENERATION
Baby Boomer
Gen X
Millenial109
360
3132019
HEADCOUNT BY ETHNICITY
 White, 47%
 Asian, 17%
 Black or African American, 13%
 Hispanic or Latino, 14%
 Other, 9%608 (59%) 429 (41%)Women MenHEADCOUNT BY GENDER
HEADCOUNT BY GENERATION
Baby Boomer
Gen X
Millenial
Gen Z75
368
560
342020
673 (58%) 490 (42%)Women MenHEADCOUNT BY GENDER
HEADCOUNT BY GENERATION
Baby Boomer 70
402
633
58Gen X
Millenial
Gen ZHEADCOUNT BY ETHNICITY
 White, 46%
 Asian, 18%
 Black or African American, 12%
 Hispanic or Latino, 15%
 Other, 9%24      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportHuman and  
Employee RelationsWORKFORCE HIRING & DEVELOPMENT PRACTICES
As we recruit top talent to join the iRhythm team,  
we use job boards focused on outreach to 
underrepresented groups, including ethnic or racial, 
women, veterans, LGBTQIA, people with disabilities, 
and indigenous populations. As new employees come to iRhythm, they  
learn more about our policies and culture through 
orientation and onboarding, our Employee  
Handbook, Code of Conduct, and compliance 
trainings. These all provide guidance on how  
we expect to operate in order to foster diversity,  
equity and inclusion across iRhythm. 03. iRhythm’s Commitment
to Ethical Conduct26      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm’s Commitment 
to Ethical ConductiRhythm is committed to conducting its business  
with the highest of ethical standards. Our reputation 
for integrity and fair dealing is of utmost importance. 
Therefore, we are committed to complying with 
applicable rules and regulations related to ethical 
marketing and competitive behavior covering social 
issues associated with the existence of monopolies, 
excessive pricing, poor quality of service, and 
inefficiencies. Our policy is to fully comply with both 
the letter and spirit of all applicable rules and 
regulations. The employee Code of Conduct applies  
to all Company employees around the world as well  
as the our third-party intermediaries, business 
partners, and agents. 
RESPECTING OUR VALUES
At iRhythm, honest and ethical conduct is critical  
to our success as a business. All iRhythm employees, 
directors, agents, and contractors have a 
responsibility to comply with laws that apply toiRhythm and to be honest and ethical in all  
Company dealings.
Why we have a Code of Conduct 
Our Code of Conduct (the “Code”) was developed  
to provide employees with the guidance and access  
to resources needed to operate with unquestionable 
integrity. The Code is designed to deter  
wrongdoing and to promote: 
• Honest and ethical conduct 
• Compliance with applicable laws, rules,  
and regulations
• Prompt internal reporting of violations  
of the Code
• Accountability for adherence to the Code 
• Full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable 
disclosure in our reports and public 
communications27      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm’s Commitment 
to Ethical ConductTHE CODE APPLIES TO US ALL 
The Code applies to all employees and members  
of our Board of Directors. iRhythm also engages 
consultants, contractors, and other third-parties to 
perform services for iRhythm; these individuals  
are also expected to read, understand, and abide  
by the Code. All iRhythm employees are held to the 
same compliance and ethical standards, regardless  
of their position at the Company. Individuals in 
management and leadership positions are expected 
to go one step further to encourage a strong 
compliance “tone at the top.”
If a consultant or contractor has been added to 
iRhythm’s employee list maintained in UltiPro, 
iRhythm’s human resources application, that 
individual is required to complete the Code of Conduct 
training. Following completion of training, the 
consultant or contractor is expected to complete  
an attestation as to their comprehension of iRhythm’s 
Code of Conduct policy. The training completion statistics for these 
consultants and contractors are monitored and 
reported on a quarterly basis by the Director of Ethics 
& Compliance along with statistics for employees. 
Employees are required to take an annual Code of 
Conduct policy online training course. Upon 
completion of the course, each employee is required 
to sign an attestation that they have read and 
understand the Code of Conduct. 
• Have received Code of Conduct Training  
and certification: 100%
• Have certified that they have read and  
understood the Code of Conduct: 100%28      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm’s Commitment 
to Ethical ConductThe Code of Conduct is accessible via Zio Pulse  
(the Company’s intranet) and the Company’s external 
website, irhythmtech.com/company/ethics-
compliance. 
iRhythm’s Ethics and Compliance Services  
(ECS) oversees compliance within iRhythm to  
ensure the organization’s commitment to the  
highest ethical standards. ECS is comprised of the 
iRhythm Compliance Officer and the Director  
of Ethics and Compliance Services. It is tasked with  
ensuring the successful implementation of our  
Code of Conduct. To ensure iRhythm’s commitment to ethics  
and integrity, employees go through  
the following trainings:
• General Ethics and Compliance Training
• Sales Ethics and Compliance Training
• iRhythm Code of Conduct Training
• Interactions with Health Care  
Professionals Training
• Global Anti-Corruption Training
• Annual Conflict of Interest Attestation
Each training provides employees an overview  
of the applicable rules and regulations and  
iRhythm’s commitment and expectation to ensure 
compliance. Training completion is tracked and 
reported by ECS. 29      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm’s Commitment 
to Ethical ConductMonitoring ethics
iRhythm has an Ethics & Compliance Services 
Department and a Chief Compliance Officer. 
Consistent with the Company’s ethos of strong 
compliance, there are several channels available to 
employees to communicate an ethical concern. 
Appropriate channels available to employees, include 
a direct manager, the Human Resources group, 
iRhythm’s Ethics and Compliance Officer  
(available via compliance@irhythmtech.com),  
or iRhythm’s Ethics Line. 
iRhythm has an Ethics Line that is available to all 
employees as a reporting mechanism. The Ethics Line 
is available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.  
A third-party hotline provider, Ethics Point, hosts  
the Ethics Line. Reports can be communicated to 
Ethics Point via phone (US: (844) 884-0117;  
UK: 0-800-89-0011) or a report can be can be filed  
via the online form at secure.ethicspoint.com/domain/
media/en/gui/62109/index.html. When a credible matter is reported to iRhythm, 
investigations are conducted using internal company 
resources. If the circumstances of an investigation 
require external resources to be utilized, iRhythm  
has access to independent consultants who would  
be called upon to help with an investigation. 
OUR COMMITMENT TO THE TRUTH
At iRhythm, we take all allegations of misconduct 
seriously and, where there is sufficient information 
provided, will investigate every report of potential 
violations of the Code, Company policy, or the law.  
Of the cases brought forward in 2019, three  
led to termination of the individual involved  
in the concern, two led to advice being provided,  
and one led to education/training. There were  
five cases where no action was taken due to 
unsubstantiated information.30      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm’s Commitment 
to Ethical ConductOUR COMMITMENT TO NON-RETALIATION
iRhythm strives to maintain an open, accessible,  
and transparent environment where employees 
should feel comfortable coming forward with 
questions, comments, or concerns of noncompliance. 
All iRhythm employees must honor the Code’s  
non-retaliation policy by maintaining respect for  
one another. Retaliation of any form against  
an employee who reports, in good faith, misconduct  
or wrongdoing is not allowed at iRhythm. 
Guidelines of ethical conduct expectations for 
iRhythm employees are included in the Company’s 
training program and Code of Conduct. A non-
exhaustive list of regulations and policies to  
which our employees are expected to abide by  
are as follows:ANTITRUST (SHERMAN ACT 1890)
Antitrust laws forbid unlawful mergers and  
business practices. The Sherman Act outlaws 
“unreasonable contract, combination, or conspiracy  
in restraint of trade” and any “monopolization, 
attempted monopolization, or conspiracy or 
combination to monopolize.” Violations of the 
Sherman Act are considered harmful to competition. 
They include arrangements among competing 
individuals or businesses to fix prices, divide  
markets, or rig bids. These acts are “per se”  
violations of the Sherman Act, meaning that no 
defense or justification is allowed.
ADDITIONAL COMPETITION LAWS
Antitrust laws and fair competition laws are  
technical and vary by country. iRhythm employees 
may contact iRhythm Legal at legal@irhythmtech.com 
with questions regarding competition laws in their 
specific jurisdiction. 31      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm’s Commitment 
to Ethical ConductiRhythm’s commitment to ethical  
business standards 
iRhythm is committed to ensuring it conducts its 
business ethically and with integrity. iRhythm 
employees shall not engage in situations that violate 
the principles of fair competition. iRhythm’s 
employees should not discuss the following with 
competitors related to iRhythm products and services:
• Pricing or pricing policies
• Terms or conditions of sale  
(past, present or future)
• Royalties
• Warranties
• Bids and contracts
• Customer information
• Discounts• Teritorial markets
• Promotions
• Inventories
• Costs
• Production capacities or plans
• Profits
• Distribution or selling strategies
• Research and development activities 
• Strategic plans and strategies
• Initiation, continuation or discontinuation  
of product offerings
• Non-public confidential  
business information32      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm’s Commitment 
to Ethical ConductIf an iRhythm employee becomes aware of  
a violation of the above, they should contact  
Ethics and Compliance Services at  
compliance@irhythmtech.com. Employees are 
requested to refer to iRhythm’s Code of  
Conduct for reporting potential violations  
and/or concerns. 
Penalties 
Penalties for violating the Sherman Act can  
be severe. Although most enforcement actions  
are civil, the Sherman Act is also a criminal law,  
and individuals and businesses that violate 
it may be prosecuted by the Department of Justice. 
Criminal prosecutions are typically limited  
to intentional and clear violations such  
as when competitors fix prices or rig bids.  
Penalties include:• Criminal penalties of up to $100 million  
for a corporation 
• Criminal penalties of up to $1 million  
for an individual
• Up to 10 years in prison
Under federal law, the maximum fine may  
be increased to twice the amount the conspirators 
gained from the illegal acts or twice the money  
lost by the victims of the crime, if either of those 
amounts is over $100 million.1
iRhythm has not been the subject of, nor has it been  
accused of violations related to competition laws.  
In the event iRhythm is accused of violating any 
competition laws, we will engage outside counsel  
to assist with the investigation process. 
1. Guide to Antitrust Laws, ftc.gov/tips-advice/competition-guidance/guide-antitrust-laws/antitrust-laws33      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm’s Commitment 
to Ethical ConductFalse marketing claims
False marketing can lead to potential violations 
including monetary loss. iRhythm has no proceedings, 
and has had no proceedings, associated with false 
marketing at this time. As a result, there has been no 
monetary loss associated with false marketing. 
Reporting non-compliance
iRhythm requires all employees to report any 
suspected non-compliance with any law or ethical 
standard. There will be no retaliation for reporting 
suspected non-compliance in good faith.  
iRhythm offers confidential, anonymous, and  
non-retaliatory methods of reporting including:
• iRhythm Ethics Line: 
US (844) 884-0117 
UK 0800 89 0011
• iRhythm Ethics Line Website: 
irhythmethics.ethicspoint.comiRhythm employees can also report concerns  
directly to Ethics and Compliance Services at 
compliance@irhythmtech.com, as well as via chain  
of command to their manager or director. 
iRhythm has a strong culture of ethical conduct  
and compliance. Our employees receive regular 
training that covers aspects of employee conduct, 
including conduct with individuals, corporations,  
and governments. We have a zero-tolerance  
policy for illegal activity and our employees are  
aware of our policies, which include:34      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm’s Commitment 
to Ethical ConductAnti-corruption and anti-bribery laws
IRHYTHM’S GLOBAL ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICY
iRhythm complies with applicable anti-corruption  
and anti-bribery laws such as the United States 
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (the “FCPA”),  
the United Kingdom Bribery Act of 2010 (the “UKBA”), 
U.S. Travel Act, 18 U.S.C. Section 201, and the  
OECD Anti-Bribery Convention (collectively referred  
to as the “Anti-Corruption Laws”). iRhythm’s policy  
is to fully comply with both the letter and spirit  
of the Anti-Corruption Laws, and iRhythm’s Global 
Anti-Corruption Policy applies to all Company 
employees around the world as well as third-party 
intermediaries, business partners, and agents.  
No one working for or with iRhythm may pay or 
receive a bribe or receive or provide anything  
of value, including government officials, in order  
to improperly influence such person. Bribery and/or corruption will not be tolerated. 
Accordingly, iRhythm’s Global Executive Team,  
UK Office, and staff involved in international business 
are required to confirm compliance with iRhythm’s 
Global Anti-Corruption Policy annually.  
Confirmation is mandatory and tracked by Ethics  
and Compliance Services. 
Upon completion of the annual Global Anti-Corruption 
Training, iRhythm employees attest to understanding 
the requirements and laws of the Global Anti-
Corruption Policy. Employees also acknowledge that 
they understand their responsibility to comply with  
all Anti-Corruption laws and internal guidelines and 
that they have no knowledge of inappropriate 
payments authorized or offered to induce corruption. 
Attestations are sent to all iRhythm employees  
who complete the Global Anti-Corruption Training  
are tracked for completion. 35      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm’s Commitment 
to Ethical ConductFOREIGN CORRUPT PRACTICES ACT (FCPA)
The FCPA’s anti-bribery provisions generally prohibit 
U.S. citizens or firms, as well as their officers, directors, 
employees, agents, or controlling shareholders,  
from offering, paying, promising, or authorizing the 
payment of money or “anything of value” to a “foreign 
official” in order to “obtain or retain business” or to 
secure an improper advantage. 
iRhythm’s Ethics and Compliance Services has  
a newly developed FCPA process to help identify 
potential red flags related to the Company’s 
relationships with external agents. The FCPA process 
includes the following:
• iRhythm’s FCPA Questionnaire
• iRhythm’s FCPA Certification Letter
• iRhythm’s FCPA due diligence processWhen contemplating doing business with OUS 
Contractors/Business Partners/Agents, or when U.S. 
employees or agents will be working overseas, 
iRhythm ensures the appropriate FCPA 
documentation is completed and reviewed.  
The Business Owner is required to return the FCPA 
Questionnaire and Anti-Corruption Certification  
a minimum of 21 business days prior to the effective 
date of the Contractors/Business Partners/Agents 
contract. Ethics and Compliance Services anticipates 
third-party due diligence review to be completed 
within 15 business days after receiving required FCPA 
documentation; notwithstanding, extenuating 
circumstances may affect this time frame.36      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm’s Commitment 
to Ethical ConductiRhythm will work towards resolution of any FCPA  
red flags prior to engaging in a business relationship 
with Contractors/Business Partners/Agents. 
Unresolved red flags will prevent iRhythm from 
contracting with the Contractors/Business Partners/
Agents. ECS will ensure documentation is  
completed accurately and fully.After completion of the Annual Global Anti-Corruption 
Training, employees attest to having reviewed and 
completed the information related to iRhythm’s policy. 
Currently, anti-corruption training is provided to the 
global executive team, the UK office and the staff 
involved in international business.04. Accessible and  
Affordable Healthcare  
for Patients and  
Clinicians 38      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportAccessible and  
Affordable Healthcare  
for Patients and  
Clinicians iRhythm is redefining how cardiac arrhythmias are 
clinically diagnosed by combining wearable 
biosensing technology with cloud-based data 
analytics and machine-learning capabilities to bring 
dependable and easy remote monitoring to the wider 
population. The Zio service allows healthcare 
providers to diagnose arrhythmias more efficiently 
than traditional technologies, avoid repeat testing, 
prescribe a treatment plan, and potentially prevent 
serious medical events. Patients access and receive 
care in a timely fashion, without the need to repeat 
tests. Further, the Zio service enables patient 
monitoring with technology that requires little to  
no manipulation, which allows patients to go about 
their daily lives uninterrupted.
Communication to health care providers and patients 
combines a myriad of platforms, including:COMPANY WEBSITE
irhythmtech.com
COMPANY SOCIAL MEDIA CHANNELS 
• LinkedIn
• Facebook
• Twitter
CLINICAL RESEARCH AND PUBLICATIONS  
IN PEER-REVIEWED JOURNALS 
Download a complete summary of our  
clinical studies at irhythmtech.com/ 
professionals/evidence39      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportAccessible and  
Affordable Healthcare  
for Patients and  
Clinicians PEER-TO-PEER EDUCATIONAL WEBINAR SERIES
irhythmtech.com/providers/webinars
• Scripps Health (Dr. John Rogers) 
• Montefiore Health System (Dr. Kevin Ferrick)
• Spectrum Health (Dr. Andre Gauri)
• Cone Health (Dr. Dan Bensimhon) 
PARTICIPATION IN ANNUAL GLOBAL INDUSTRY 
SCIENTIFIC SESSIONS, CONFERENCES
i.e., American College of Cardiology, Heart  
Rhythm Society
PATIENT TESTIMONIALS AND CASE STUDIES
• irhythmtech.com/patients/myzio
• irhythmtech.com/professionals/case-studies
• Advertising in industry publications  
(e.g., peer-reviewed journals, trade publications)Availability and use of the Zio service
Diagnostics solutions have advanced rapidly  
in the last 20 years, but cardiac monitoring  
was left behind. While patients complete multiple  
rounds of non-diagnostic testing, their care  
is delayed because of antiquated and  
uncomfortable technology from the 1960s. 
With the Zio service, we aim to create a new  
standard of cardiac care that replaces the  
traditional heart health technology known as the 
Holter monitor. There are numerous Holter monitor 
device manufacturers on the market. Zio has  
been demonstrated in dozens of peer-reviewed 
studies to have a much higher diagnostic yield than 
Holter, with demonstrated lower levels of repeat 
testing that Holters often require. iRhythm’s  
Zio service is a proven and complete ambulatory  
cardiac monitoring (ACM) solution designed  
to meet clinician and patient needs across  
the patient risk spectrum.40      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportAccessible and  
Affordable Healthcare  
for Patients and  
Clinicians The Zio monitor is a small, light, and inconspicuous 
remote ambulatory cardiac monitor. Zio is a 
prescribed monitor that can be applied in-clinic or 
at-home by the patient with Home Enrollment.  
If applied at home, the monitoring patch is shipped  
to the patient with directions, and accompanying 
comprehensive video tutorials are available  
online, to ensure correct application and accurate 
recording of symptoms.
iRhythm is committed to enabling better patient 
outcomes while providing an easy monitoring 
experience for patients. Within the Zio service,  
there are two main product offerings: 
• Zio XT for lower-risk patients
• Zio AT for higher-risk patientsMore specifically, Zio XT delivers a report to the 
prescribing physician after the end of the  
patient’s wear period, while Zio AT will transmit  
ECG data near real-time for symptomatic or 
arrhythmic events during the patient’s wear period. 
iRhythm has committed to investing in research  
that will continue to improve the lives of patients 
through technology. 
Today, there are approximately 6,000 locations  
that utilize the Zio service. To date there have been 
over 750 million curated hours of heartbeat data,  
and over 3 million patients served. 
With both Zio monitors, patients can shower, exercise, 
and sleep comfortably without disrupting their lives or 
their data. Zio has demonstrated clinically superior 
outcomes relative to competitors and is preferred  
by patients and physicians, as documented:Zio XT
Zio AT
 Zio XT
Zio AT41      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportAccessible and  
Affordable Healthcare  
for Patients and  
Clinicians • In a peer-reviewed study, 81% of patients 
preferred Zio over Holter monitoring, which 
contributed to a longer wear time and improved 
arrhythmia detection. amjmed.com/article/
S0002-9343(13)00870-X/fulltext
• In a head-to-head comparison with Holter 
monitors, Zio monitors enabled doctors to make a 
meaningful change in clinical management for 
28.4% of patients with atrial fibrillation; 
onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/pace.12053 
• Unlike Holter monitors—which are typically  
worn for 24-48 hours—the Zio XT monitor  
can be comfortably worn for up to 14 days, 
capturing significantly larger amounts of data for 
analysis than Holter monitors. Investigator-led 
research found that the Zio XT monitor 
demonstrates that 51% of patients have their  
first symptom-triggered arrhythmia after the  
first 48 hours. (ajconline.org/article/S0002-
9149(13)00991-0/fulltext) Zio helps capture  these arrhythmias that would have otherwise 
been missed by Holter monitors.
• Unlike other Mobile Cardiac Telemetry  
monitors, the Zio AT monitor does not require 
battery charging, lead wire maintenance,  
or patch changes. (irhythmtech.com/products-
services/zio-at) Without the need to charge a 
battery or otherwise maintain the equipment, 
patients are afforded more  
freedom and flexibility to conduct their lives  
while having their heart monitored. 05. iRhythm’s Approach  
to Affordability and Pricing43      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm’s Approach  
to Affordability and PricingiRhythm’s strategy throughout its history 
has been to deliver a safe and repeatable  
platform, which will help save the lives  
of patients. iRhythm is a CMS-certified Medicare 
Independent Diagnostic Testing Facility,  
where data captured by the Zio monitor  
is analyzed. iRhythm offers uniform retail pricing  
(i.e., billed charges) for its services across the  
U.S. iRhythm’s pricing recognizes the clinical  
value of the service provided to patients,  
physicians, and the overall healthcare system.  
And iRhythm’s pricing policy is designed to  
support innovation and delivery of industry- 
leading arrhythmia diagnostics. 
Additionally, the Zio service was designed  
to help physicians be more effective in treatment  
of their patients. From the Healthcare  
Practitioner perspective, benefits from using  
the Zio service include:• Health systems across the country have been 
able to improve clinical outcomes, improve 
diagnostic accuracy, reduce operating costs and 
expenses, and achieve financial growth  
by retiring wired monitors (Holter monitors)  
and switching to Zio.
• Physician-office and hospital-patient throughput 
is significantly improved, which can reduce  
or eliminate patient backlogs. Zio enables 
practices to improve diagnostic yield, reduce  
staff workflow time, and reduce cost per 
monitored patient.
• The Zio service utilizes one identical patch  
design for both monitors (Zio XT and Zio AT).  
This means that the application process  
is identical for both monitors, which leads to 
optimized workflow, requires less training and 
learning, and creates less confusion among  
office and hospital staff.
44      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm’s Approach  
to Affordability and Pricing• The Zio Patient Report is accurate, concise, 
succinct, and easy to read. Compared to other 
monitoring reports, clinicians share that it takes 
less time to interpret and is more reliable. 
• Zio monitors are single-use devices. This 
eliminates the need for cleaning or re-using 
returned monitors that may have been exposed  
to pathogens. This is especially important  
during COVID-19.
• Zio monitors can be prescribed and worn up to  
14 days, whereas Holter monitors are typically 
worn for only 1-2 days. The additional days  
of monitoring capture arrhythmias that Holter 
monitors would miss. Numerous peer-reviewed 
publications show that arrhythmias often  
present after 48 hours.Patient accessibility and benefits  
from the Zio service include:
• Easy-to-wear experience with minimal 
interruptions to their daily lives. Patients can 
shower and exercise while wearing the  
Zio device. Zio is discreet and has no wires or 
leads and requires no patient manipulations.  
In a head-to-head clinical study of Zio vs.  
Holter monitors, 94% of patients found Zio 
comfortable vs. 52% with Holter monitors, and 
81% of patients preferred Zio over Holter 
monitors. amjmed.com/article/S0002-
9343(13)00870-X/fulltext
• Zio monitors provide high diagnostic yield  
for physicians, which translates to getting 
answers more quickly for patients and physicians. 
With Holter monitors, the diagnostic yield  
is low and often requires repeat testing,  
which is frustrating for patients and wasteful  
of resources. Physicians were able to reach a 45      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm’s Approach  
to Affordability and Pricingdiagnosis 90% of the time with the Zio system.
amjmed.com/article/S0002-9343(13) 
00870-X/fulltext . 
• Zio offers home application in which a physician 
orders a monitor that is sent to a patient’s home  
to be self-applied. This eliminates the need  
for clinic visits — which is particularly important 
during COVID-19.
• iRhythm continually engages with government, 
MACs (as defined below), and private payers 
regarding the clinical value of the Zio service.  
Zio is covered by all major commercial insurance 
providers in the U.S. and Medicare. Further 
information can be found at irhythmtech.com/
insurance . As with any new technology, we have 
embarked upon a comprehensive education  
and training program for physicians and payers. 
Through education and training, the value 
proposition of the Zio service is evident  
to patients, physicians and payers.  Currently 93% of covered lives in the U.S. have 
access to the Zio service through government  
or commercial payers.
• In instances where health insurance payment 
sources are unavailable or only partial coverage  
is present, iRhythm offers patients alternative 
payment options (e.g., interest-free payment 
plans). For patients who are experiencing  
a financial hardship, additional resources are 
available to manage their payment responsibility 
(e.g., payment assistance programs). 
Patient accessibility and affordability  
are important to iRhythm
Prior to 2021, in the United States, the Zio service was 
generally reimbursed under temporary CPT Codes, 
0295T – 0298T. Following a formal U.S. review process 
involving the American Medical Association, the 
American College of Cardiology, the Heart  
Rhythm Society and the Center for Medicare  46      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm’s Approach  
to Affordability and Pricingand Medicaid Services (CMS), effective  
January 1, 2021 eight new permanent CPT codes  
were established, which are relevant to the use  
of the Zio service. 
In December 2020 CMS published its Final Rule  
and accompanying Addenda to establish  
the calendar year 2021 Medicare Physician  
Fee Schedule payment rates for pre-existing and new 
Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) codes, 
including two new Category I CPT code sets related to 
long-term continuous electrocardiogram (ECG) 
application and instruction, recording, scanning, 
analysis, reporting and interpretation. Category I CPT 
codes 93241 – 93248 will replace Category III 
temporary CPT codes 0295T – 0298T  
as the primary codes that iRhythm used to seek 
reimbursement for its Zio XT service prior  
to calendar year 2021. The eight new Category I  
CPT codes were split between two sets of four  
defined by heart rhythm data collected over  a period of greater than 48 hours and up to  
7 days, and for greater than 7 days up to 15 days.  
These additional codes were established to define  
the associated time and work to record, analyze, 
detect and identify cardiac arrhythmias over  
longer periods of time which has been shown  
to lead to higher detection rates. 
In the Final Rule CMS established national  
Relative Value Units (RVUs) and payment rates  
for 93242 and 93246, the biosensor application  
and patient instruction codes, and 93244  
and 93248, the physician report interpretation codes. 
CMS did not establish national RVUs for 93243  
and 93247, the scanning, analysis and reporting 
codes, which represent the primary codes iRhythm 
uses to seek reimbursement for its Zio XT service. 
These codes were designated by CMS to be 
“contractor priced.” As a result, 93241 and 93245  
also were not assigned national RVUs, as they are47      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm’s Approach  
to Affordability and Pricingtermed global codes whose RVUs are the  
sum of the RVUs from the other three  
associated codes.
Contractor priced CPT codes will not have  
associated national RVUs in calendar year 2021.  
iRhythm is working with the regional Medicare 
Administrative Contractors (or MACs)  
to establish calendar year 2021 pricing for  
93243 and 93247, which will also, by default,  
price 93241 and 93245.
The CMS decision to “contractor price” certain 
Category I CPT codes does not obviate the  
use of such CPT codes for reporting services to U.S. 
payors. At this time, iRhythm expects that the new 
CPT codes will be adopted by all U.S. payors  
for reporting purposes beginning January 1, 2021  
when the new codes became effective. iRhythm has a dedicated Patient Financial  
Navigation Team, consisting of 15 members.  
The Patient Financial Navigation Team helps patients 
learn more about their insurance benefits and  
any potential out-of-pocket costs associated with  
the Zio service. The team is available to help  
patients, and payers, from 7am –7pm CST via  
our toll-free customer care line, (888) 693-2401.
OUR PATIENT FINANCIAL NAVIGATION TEAM  
CAN ASSIST PATIENTS BY:
• Reviewing specific plan benefits
• Providing an estimated out-of-pocket cost  
for the Zio service
• Discussing available payment programs to ensure 
patients can afford the Zio service48      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm’s Approach  
to Affordability and PricingIRHYTHM OFFERS SEVERAL PAYMENT OPTIONS  
FOR PATIENTS, INCLUDING:
• Financial Assistance Program:  
Income-based Tiered Program (available up  
to 400% of the Federal Poverty Level)
• Flexible pricing for those without insurance 
• Monthly Installment Plan (up to 12 months 
interest-free)
• Prompt Pay DiscountThe Patient Financial Navigation Team has access  
to multiple programs to aid patients in navigating 
coverage and payment options, including  
Company financial assistance. In 2017, 2018, 2019,  
and 2020 iRhythm provided direct financial assistance 
in the amount of approximately $83,000, $265,000, 
$400,000 and $284,000, respectively. We are  
dedicated to helping patients get the care they  
need and have demonstrated commitment  
to financial support for those patients who need it. 06. iRhythm is Dedicated to 
Developing Safe Products 
for Patients50      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm is Dedicated to  
Developing Safe Products  
for PatientsThe Zio monitor is a small, discreet, and comfortable 
patch, which can be worn during normal day-to-day 
activity, including sleeping, showering, and exercising. 
The Zio monitor records every single heartbeat for 
analysis. During the monitoring process, patients are 
encouraged to document any symptoms and 
unexpected experiences which will help provide 
context for the recorded data. 
At the end of the prescribed period, the Zio XT 
monitor is returned to iRhythm for analysis.  
During the analysis process, the patient’s information 
is assessed for abnormalities and documented.  
This information is used by a physician to assess  
the cardiac performance of the patient throughout  
the wear period. The result of the analysis is communicated to the 
patient’s physician who then discusses the result  
with the patient. Further information on the  
Zio device and patient experience can be found here,  
irhythmtech.com/patients/myzio/help?zio-xt.html. 
The Zio patch is a single patient use device. After the 
prescribed duration of wear, the patch is returned  
to one of iRhythm’s intake centers where the ECG data 
is uploaded. Components of the patch and the 
packaging are then re-used, recycled, or scrapped.
The Zio patch and the associated packaging and 
labeling material do not incorporate hazardous 
chemicals. The bio-compatibility of patient contacting 
materials of the Zio patch have been assessed  
per ISO 10993 requirements and were deemed to  
be acceptable. 51      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm is Dedicated to  
Developing Safe Products  
for PatientsOur commitment to quality
• We continuously work to improve our  
quality management system 
• We comply with all applicable regulatory 
requirements
• We deliver excellence to customers  
through our products, processes,  
service and data
We have processes in place to assess potential  
device or compliance issues in the field. If a situation 
were to arise, iRhythm has the capability to 
successfully execute a field correction and removal 
action (i.e. a product recall, including the ability  
to issue customer advisory notices, perform recalls,  
or execute field corrections). Should we become  
aware that there is an issue with counterfeit product, 
or any quality control issue, then this process  
may be used to notify customers, physicians, regulators, and/or partners. Additionally, this process 
is compliant with the FDA’s 21 CFR Part 806 
regulations for performing field actions including  
field notifications of issues.
Each Zio patch is associated with a unique serial 
number which is helpful, should any product recall 
process be required. iRhythm utilizes QAD ERP 
system in manufacturing and Salesforce.com  
for customer service purposes to track medical 
devices. Through the use of these tools,  
serialization, and well established, best practices,  
we maintain traceability of medical device throughout 
our supply and distribution chains. Further,  
by the very nature of the Zio service, iRhythm  
is well informed about where and when individual 
patches are used by patients as well as when they  
are finished and returned. 52      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm is Dedicated to  
Developing Safe Products  
for PatientsiRhythm performs active surveillance and complaint 
handling with respect to device performance  
and safety. We review scientific and clinical literature 
to ensure there is consistent understanding of  
the Zio service throughout the prescribing community 
as well as to monitor real world experience with the 
Zio service. Further, on a regular basis, in an effort to 
ensure that iRhythm is aware of clinical experience 
with the Zio service, we conduct searches of FDA 
MAUDE and MHRA database for any field reports that 
were not directly reported to iRhythm. Conducting 
market and regulator surveillance is an important  
part of our processes to ensure patient safety.  
We are not aware of any counterfeit product  
at this time. iRhythm has had no raids, seizures,  
arrest, and/or filing of criminal charges related  
to counterfeit products. Recalls are reported to the FDA per 21 CFR  
part 806 and are publicly available. iRhythm has  
had no recalls. accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/
cfdocs/cfRES/res.cfm. We have had no FDA 
enforcement actions such as FDA warning letters  
or consent decrees. The results of the last FDA 
inspections for the two sites with scopes  
that apply to FDA inspections are listed below: 
• San Francisco: FDA inspection ended on  
June 29, 2016 – No 483s observations
• Cypress: FDA inspection ended on  
30 Oct, 2018 – No 483s observations53      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm is Dedicated to  
Developing Safe Products  
for PatientsIN ADDITION:
• iRhythm’s Quality Management System is 
certified to ISO 13485:2016 international standard 
for medical device Quality Management System.
• iRhythm earned the Joint Commission’s Gold  
Seal of Approval for Ambulatory Health Care 
Accreditation. 
• iRhythm has a quality policy that is published  
and reviewed annually by executive management 
for any updates. iRhythm’s quality procedures  
and culture revolves around the policy of  
putting the patient and quality first. 
More information can be found on the website:  
irhythmtech.com/company/quality-security0 7. iRhythm’s Primary  
Focus has Always Been  
on Patient Safety55      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm’s Primary  
Focus has Always Been  
on Patient SafetyOur goal is to be the leading provider of first-line 
ambulatory electrocardiogram, or ECG, monitoring  
for patients at risk for arrhythmias. When a patient  
has already been diagnosed with an arrhythmia,  
the treating physician may use Zio to measure the 
effectiveness of the patient’s treatment plan. 
Understanding a patient’s heart health is important  
to us. iRhythm actively engages with physicians  
to find answers and guide the best decision  
for patient care. 
The safe and effective treatment of patients is crucial 
to the success of the Company. We continue to  
invest and innovate for the benefit of patients. Some 
examples of how patients have experienced the  
Zio service can be found in patient testimonials at 
irhythmtech.com/providers/zio-service/zio-monitors . 
As part of iRhythm’s commitment to patient safety, 
any serious injury or death would be reported  
to the FDA per 21 CFR part 803. We strictly follow  this regulation and report injuries related to the  
Zio devices to the FDA in a timely manner in 
compliance with the MedWatch reporting guidelines. 
There have been no deaths associated with Zio 
devices. The majority of the MedWatch incident 
reports on the Zio service are associated with  
contact dermatitis, or inflammation of the skin,  
which is highlighted for patients as a potential side 
effect in using the Zio patch, in the materials  
provided. Contact dermatitis is a well-known potential 
side effect of medical adhesives for a small 
percentage of individuals with skin sensitivities. 
In the United States, Medical Device Reports  
(MDRs) for the Zio service are publicly available  
via the FDA website accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/
cfdocs/cfMAUDE/search.cfm.56      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm’s Primary  
Focus has Always Been  
on Patient SafetyThere is a comparable medical device reporting 
system in the EU/UK market, Medical Device Vigilance 
(MDV) reporting is assessed on each UK complaint 
and performed as required per the EU Medical Device 
Directives and MEDDEV guidance. This information 
will be available via the EUDAMED database,  
which is the IT system developed by the European 
Commission. There were no MDVs in 2019 and  
no MDVs in 2020.
Further, iRhythm is unaware of any fatalities 
associated with the use of the Zio device or service. 
Clinical trials
All iRhythm clinical trials are conducted by contract 
and with a study protocol in place in order to reinforce 
appropriate compliance, governance and patient 
protections. More specifically, clinical trial contracts 
ensure key provisions for patient safety, including 
requirements for Informed Consent, protections  
for patient privacy, and quality provisions. Clinical Study protocols ensure appropriate 
organization and management of all clinical studies.  
Typically, Institutional Review Boards (IRBs) are 
utilized to provide the additional level of scrutiny  
of external oversight to ensure highest level 
compliance and patient safety.
iRhythm’s conscientious process around clinical  
study execution begins with an internal review  
of proposed research. Key requirements of this 
process step are to ensure the protocol displays  
a scientifically rigorous design, and that the  
lead investigators have well established track records 
based on publications in reputable journals.  
Examples of our completed studies—objective 
evidence of the high-quality approach of our clinical 
research initiatives—are available on our website 
(irhythmtech.com/professionals/evidence).57      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm’s Primary  
Focus has Always Been  
on Patient SafetyiRhythm is periodically audited by research partners 
and no observations have resulted. More specifically, 
iRhythm has not had any audits by FDA of its  
clinical research operations and, as such, has never 
received either VAI or OAI observations. iRhythm has 
not been involved in any legal proceedings associated 
with clinical trials in developing countries.
Commitment to protecting patient information
PROTECTING PATIENT INFORMATION  
iRhythm collects personal and health information 
about its patients during the course of providing 
services. This information is protected under HIPAA  
as well as numerous state laws and regulations. 
iRhythm is fully committed to maintaining the privacy 
and security of patient information. We use industry 
leading practices that ensure the confidentiality, 
integrity, availability, and privacy of iRhythm digital 
assets (patient data, iRhythm data, employee data). iRhythm develops, manages, and maintains  
software, systems and associated security based on 
documented frameworks and regulations including 
the NIST Cyber Security Framework, SOC 2, the  
HIPAA Security and Privacy Rules, and the General 
Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Our environments 
are continually assessed to these requirements by 
external auditors. We employ an approach of security, 
continuous improvement, and work collaboratively 
across the organization to ensure patient and 
employee information remains safe. 
Ethical Interactions with healthcare  
professionals (HCPs)
As a leading digital cardiac healthcare company,  
many of our employees have regular contact  
with customers, patients, and persons responsible  
for purchasing our products. We have specific 
compliance guidelines which outline expected 
conduct of iRhythm employees. 58      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm’s Primary  
Focus has Always Been  
on Patient SafetyIRHYTHM HEAL TH CARE PRACTITIONER  
(HCP) GUIDELINES
iRhythm interacts with HCPs every day.  
HCPs are individuals and institutions involved  
in the decision-making process to purchase,  
use, prescribe, or recommend iRhythm services.  
This includes doctors, nurses, hospitals, health plan 
administrators, and anyone else involved in  
the decision to buy, use, or recommend iRhythm  
health care services. 
iRhythm’s Ethics and Compliance Services created 
guidelines for interacting with HCPs. Fundamentally, 
the guidelines state that when interacting with  
HCPs, it is critical that promotion of health care 
services be based solely upon the need of the patient. 
Collaboration with HCPs must be transparent  
and ethical. Patient need is the driver in use or 
recommendation of health care services.On occasion, iRhythm may provide “modest”  
meals and/or travel to HCPs. It is important that all 
“Transfers of Value” to HCPs are appropriate per 
iRhythm’s HCP Guidelines. iRhythm’s Sales Team 
attests annually to receiving and reviewing the  
HCP Guidelines. 
iRhythm is not aware of any violations related  
to iRhythm associates nor inappropriate payments  
or “Transfer of Values” to HCPs.
DISCLOSURE VIA OPEN PAYMENTS
iRhythm employees follow HCP Guidelines to ensure 
interactions with HCPs are appropriate and all 
“Transfers of Value” are permitted by iRhythm’s legally 
compliant rules and regulations. 
We disclose to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid 
Services (CMS) annually all “Transfers of Value” 
provided to physicians and some other health care 
providers. Information can be found on CMS’  59      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm’s Primary  
Focus has Always Been  
on Patient SafetyOpen Payments database. iRhythm employees  
are required to register all “Transfers of Value”  
in Concur, the Company’s internal compliance  
tracking system.
The Ethics and Compliance Services team conducts 
annual auditing and monitoring on “Transfers of Value” 
provided to HCPs to ensure appropriateness. This 
includes reviewing samples to ensure all information 
registered within Concur is relayed and uploaded 
accurately to CMS’ Open Payments database. 
MEDICAL DEVICE LAWS
iRhythm devices are regulated by governmental 
agencies, health ministries, and other regulatory 
authorities around the world. Regulatory  
requirements include, but are not limited to, marketing 
approvals, product registrations, clinical study 
parameters, good manufacturing practices, design 
controls and labeling and advertising controls.iRhythm is a member of the Medical Device 
Manufacturer’s Association and part of  
the Association of British Healthtech Industries  
(in the UK). We aim to follow the compliance 
guidelines of the Advanced Medical Technology 
Association (ADVAMED), but are not a member  
of ADVAMED.
OUR REGULATORS
iRhythm interacts with a broad assortment  
of regulators, some of which include: 
• U.S. Food & Drug Administration
• National competent authority and notified body
• The Department of Justice
• The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission 
• The Department of Health and Human Services 
Office of the Inspector General60      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm’s Primary  
Focus has Always Been  
on Patient SafetyWe are committed to always showing the utmost 
respect for the regulatory agencies with which we 
interact. Successful interactions with our regulators 
begin with following the laws and regulatory 
requirements applicable to our business.
As of February 2021, iRhythm is unaware  
of any ongoing investigation with any regulatory  
body regarding the Company.
No promotion of off-label use 
OFF LABEL-USE
Off-label usage refers to usage of a device that 
deviates from its regulatory cleared/approved 
labeling. It is legal for licensed physicians to  
use/prescribe medical devices for off-label usage  
if they believe that it is medically appropriate  
for their patient. PROHIBITIONS OF OFF-LABEL USAGE
While physicians are free to determine when  
off-label use may be appropriate for a patient, 
iRhythm and its representatives are strictly prohibited 
from promoting off-label usage. Non-compliance  
with off-label promotion can lead to FDA warning 
letters and fines.
OFF-LABEL REQUESTS FROM PHYSICIANS
iRhythm’s Clinical Operations, Regulatory Affairs,  
and Ethics and Compliance Services have developed  
a new process to review “Off-Label” requests  
from prescribing physicians. All requests will be 
reviewed upon submission to ensure appropriateness 
prior to approval. 61      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm’s Primary  
Focus has Always Been  
on Patient SafetyCONFLICTS OF INTEREST
We require employees to recognize and avoid  
conflicts of interest whether that be outside activities, 
financial interests, or corporate opportunities.  
Loans from iRhythm to directors and executive 
officers are prohibited. 
Annually, all Section 16 officers and BOD members 
complete an annual questionnaire, which asks  
about conflicts of interest/related parties.  
The results of the questionnaires are reviewed by  
the Sr. SEC Manager to assess whether any  
10-K disclosures are required. We are aware that  
a family member of one board member is employed 
by the Company, further details related to this  
matter are available in our proxy statement. We are 
not aware of any supplier conflicts of interest.  
iRhythm has policies and procedures in place to 
ensure an appropriate balance is maintained between 
iRhythm and key suppliers. None of our suppliers are 
dependent on iRhythm for a majority of their revenue. Supply chain
When iRhythm considers doing business with  
a third party, several steps are taken. First, if sensitive, 
confidential, or proprietary information will be 
discussed, a non-disclosure agreement is entered 
into. iRhythm also reviews the contract, if there  
is one, and negotiates it with the third party.  
If protected health information (PHI) will be accessed, 
we require a Business Associate Agreement.  
If the third party will have access to any of iRhythm’s 
systems, PHI, or sensitive data, the Information 
Security Department performs a review of the third 
party based on the sensitivity of the data being 
accessed. Any connections to iRhythm systems 
are also evaluated by Information Security.  
If the third party is OUS, it is run through our  
FCPA process. 62      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm’s Primary  
Focus has Always Been  
on Patient SafetyAll of our production suppliers are based in  
North America. iRhythm honorably upholds our  
policy of avoiding use of conflict minerals to  
the best of our ability. We work with well-established  
vendors for printed circuit boards who, in turn,  
have stated policies to prevent the purchase  
of electronic components that may contain conflict 
minerals. We do not direct source materials  
that could come from conflict areas—all minerals  
are converted into electronic components  
by our vendors. As a further complement  
to this approach, we continue to invest in supply  
chain management resources to bring better  
clarity and control to the supply chain of  
components. Our component selection is based  
on tier 1 manufacturers that have a good  
record with respect to conflict mineral compliance.  
To the best of our knowledge, none of our  
products contain conflict minerals.In our contract manufacturer selection process  
and, annually, via one of our QBRs, iRhythm  
actively confirms corporate policies that disallow  
the usage of conflict mineral usage. Enforcement  
is done through policy alignment and tier 1 vendor 
selection, which includes confirming a good  
record of conflict mineral compliance. iRhythm  
has one production facility and approximately  
10 production vendors that support our  
manufacturing operations. All of our tier 1 
suppliers are ISO or MDSAP certified.
iRhythm is setting a new standard for how  
cardiac arrhythmias are diagnosed and aspires  
to be the world leader in the management  
of cardiac arrhythmia information. At iRhythm,  
we value creativity, innovation, and we  
strive to make a positive impact for the patients, 
communities, and industries we support.  
As an aspiring world leader, our supply  
chain reflects our leadership values and our  63      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm’s Primary  
Focus has Always Been  
on Patient Safetycore values including the responsible sourcing  
of materials for our products.
As an ISO 13485 certified company, our Quality 
Management System governs our approved  
supplier base and traceability throughout our value 
chain. All of iRhythm’s manufacturing supply base  
has been qualified using ISO 13485 compliant 
procedures within our certified Quality  
Management System.
Global human rights and labor standards policy
iRhythm aspires to be a positive influence and 
presence every community where we work.  
We are an advocate of basic human rights by  
following applicable municipal labor laws. We do  
not condone nor allow child or forced labor  
by any of our vendors or partners. iRhythm and  
its supplier base follow all applicable wage and  
hour laws, including minimum wages, overtime,  
and maximum hour rules.Global supplier standards
iRhythm’s supplier selection is based on business  
fit along an expectation that each supplier has 
adopted and operates to lawful and fair business 
practices. We expect our suppliers to:
• Operate with the highest degree of business 
ethics including compliance with applicable laws 
and regulatory requirements in the municipalities 
in which they operate
• Operate with safe and healthy working 
environments
iRhythm reserves the right to discontinue  
business relationships with suppliers that fail  
to conduct business in a legal, responsible,  
and ethical manner. iRhythm will review each  
supplier on a semi-annual basis. 64      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm’s Primary  
Focus has Always Been  
on Patient SafetyConflict Minerals Policy
INTRODUCTION
On August 22, 2012, the U.S. Securities and  
Exchange Commission (“SEC”) issued the final conflict 
minerals rule under Section 1502 the Dodd-Frank Wall 
Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the 
“Conflict Minerals Rule,” hereinafter referred to as 
“CMR”). The CMR requires publicly traded companies 
to report annually the presence of “conflict minerals” 
originating from the Democratic Republic of the 
Congo or adjoining countries (“Covered Countries”)  
in such companies’ product manufacturing practices. 
Under Section 1502, the term “conflict minerals” 
includes tantalum, tin, gold, or tungsten; this group  
of conflict minerals is commonly known as “3TG.”
The CMR directs the SEC to issue rules requiring 
publicly traded companies to disclose their use  
of conflict minerals if those minerals are “necessary  
to the functionality or production of a product” manufactured by those companies or contracted  
by those companies for manufacture. Congress 
enacted the CMR because of concerns that the 
exploitation and trade of conflict minerals by armed 
groups is helping to finance conflict in Covered 
Countries and is contributing to an emergency 
humanitarian crisis.
GENERAL
iRhythm Technologies, Inc. (“iRhythm”) supports  
the goal of ending violence, human rights violations 
and environmental devastation in the Covered 
Countries. iRhythm is committed to complying  
with any requirements applicable to iRhythm  
under the CMR.
iRhythm will assist our vendors in implementing  
and auditing their conflict minerals programs.  
iRhythm strives to work cooperatively with its supply 
chain partners in implementing conflict minerals 
compliance programs.65      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm’s Primary  
Focus has Always Been  
on Patient SafetyiRhythm is committed to helping its customers 
comply with their reporting requirements.  
iRhythm requires its suppliers abide by iRhythm’s 
Supplier Code of Conduct, which prohibits human 
rights abuses and unethical practices. Further, 
iRhythm requires its suppliers comply with applicable 
legal standards and requirements.
REFERENCE PUBLICATION
IPC-1081 Conflict Minerals Due Diligence Guidance: 
PDF available upon request
SEC CONFLICT MINERAL DISCLOSURE: 
sec.gov/info/smallbus/secg/conflict-minerals-
disclosure-small-entity-compliance-guide.
htm#:~:text=Section%201502%20of%20the%20
Dodd%2DFrank%20Act%20amends%20the%20
Securities,a%20product%E2%80%9D%20
manufactured%20by%20thoseDEFINITIONS 
CONFLICT MINERALS:  Tin, tantalum, tungsten  
and gold, the derivatives of cassiterite, columbite-
tantalite, and wolframite 
COVERED COUNTRIES:  Democratic Republic  
of Congo, Angola, Burundi, Central African Republic, 
The Republic of the Congo, Rwanda, South Sudan, 
Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia66      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm’s Primary  
Focus has Always Been  
on Patient SafetyIRHYTHM TECHNOLOGIES CONFLICT MINERALS 
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT AS OF JANUARY 20, 2021
iRhythm is committed to complying  
with the CMR and its reporting requirements.
To determine if its manufactured products  
contain Conflict Minerals, iRhythm surveys its  
key suppliers on a semi-annual basis to ascertain  
such suppliers’ use of Conflict Minerals in the 
materials supplied to iRhythm. 
iRhythm will continue to work with its key  
suppliers to identify the use of Conflict Minerals  
in its supply chain and comply the CMR  
as required.
iRhythm reserves the right to amend this  
statement at any time based on subsequent,  
related developments or information.Environmental Impact and Sustainability  
We will continue to aspire to focus on  
environmental sustainability. All of iRhythm’s  
recycling is done through our publicly traded  
recycling partner Sims (ticker: SMSMY).  
Electronics and batteries are recycled and  
precious metals are removed for reuse.  
Due to the bio-burden of used materials, our  
non-electrical mechanical pieces are destroyed  
and recycled where possible. 100% of our  
paper products are recycled through local  
recycling efforts.
iRhythm expects similar efforts from its supplier  
base and reserves the right to discontinue  
the business relationship if remediation is not 
achieved within 180 days. 67      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm’s Primary  
Focus has Always Been  
on Patient SafetyPOLICY ON GIFTS
To avoid conflicts of interest and appearances  
of improprieties, iRhythm employees may not  
accept gifts from any suppliers, their  
representatives, or other entities that are  
more than modest in value. POLICY ON PAYMENTS
iRhythm employees may not provide payments  
to any suppliers (including sub-contractors)  
or their representatives that do not follow standard 
payment procedures including the requirement  
of valid W8, W9, or tax ID numbers. Payments  
to individuals is restricted to the aforementioned  
tax ID requirements and payment must  
be made via corporate ACH, EFT, or check.  
Cash and cash-like (example: gift cards)  
transactions are not permitted.iRhythm Has an  
Environmentally Friendly 
Business Model08.69      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm Has an  
Environmentally Friendly  
Business ModeliRhythm has, from its founding, held a commitment  
to being a responsible steward to the environment.  
As the leading provider of single-use cardiac 
diagnostic devices, this principally takes the form  
of maximizing the amount of material recycled  
from our devices. Our responsibility also  
includes efforts to minimize environmental impact 
through innovative design that enables the safe  
and effective reuse of printed circuit boards,  
by far the most environmentally impactful component 
of our devices. These two environmental 
approaches—reuse and recycling—are efficiently 
enabled through our business model. The Zio service 
requires the patient monitoring device to be returned 
to iRhythm after use. The information collected  
by the device is used to generate a diagnostic report, 
which is the highest value-add component of the  
Zio service. Thus, we see a very high rate of return 
compliance with our distributed products which,  
in turn, enables the effectiveness of our reuse  
and recycling practices.As a digital health company, the remainder  
of our environmental impact is modest. Indeed,  
the end product that we provide to patients  
is a diagnostic report that we distribute as a digital 
PDF through our clinical website and mobile  
apps. These reports can be digitally integrated directly 
into provider electronic health records. Our 
manufacturing process features a snap-together 
assembly process that involves no hazardous 
materials, no water consumption and minimal  
solid waste. Our remaining environmental footprint  
is limited to five office locations in the US and UK,  
the largest of which is our San Francisco, CA 
headquarters which is in a LEED-Gold certified 
building. All employee offices offer recycling,  
while our San Francisco office includes a robust 
compost option.70      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm Has an  
Environmentally Friendly  
Business ModeliRhythm is a small and growing digital health 
 company with a small environmental footprint.  
Our business model is oriented around the reuse  
and recycling of the Zio Patch to collect and  
gather patient information. We have several active 
recycling programs and look to minimize our 
environmental footprint as efficiently as possible.  
An internal analysis of the Zio service product  
shows that a significant amount of material  
is recycled or reused:
OUTPUT DISPOSITION  REPORTED  
(BY WEIGHT)
Reuse 5%
Recycle 85%
Waste 10%As a healthcare company we require no  
significant energy consumption to support its 
business operations. Our most concerted  
focus is on the responsible management of  
materials from our devices, i.e., recycling and reuse.  
iRhythm’s overall environmental impact is mainly 
driven by manufacturing, with the most relevant 
metric being electricity usage, which is estimated  
to be about 200K Kwh per year, or the rough 
equivalent of 20 residential households.  
A representative example of our Cypress, CA 
manufacturing facility maximum use of electricity  
was ~16K kwh, during the month of July 2020.  
To put this usage in context, the 16Kwh peak  
usage is comparable to ~15 residential households 
during peak periods. According to our utility  
bills for our manufacturing facility, approximately  
35% of our electrical supply comes from  
renewable resources. 71      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm Has an  
Environmentally Friendly  
Business ModelThere is no water used in our manufacturing 
operations. The water which is consumed  
by the Company is limited to the average water  
use by office employees. 
There is no chemical or hazardous waste produced  
by our manufacturing or office facilities. 
We can only provide an estimate of waste  
produced and recycled (at current volumes) based  
on shipped product volumes, which annually  
total approximately 175 tons of materials, the majority 
of which is recycled (~150 tons), while the remainder 
goes to local landfill. With comprehensive programs  
in place, we already reuse and responsibly recycle  
all materials possible. The main avenue to  
future reductions is through the development  
of new devices that, through miniaturization,  
will require less material consumption.As a regulated medical device manufacturer,  
we can only employ medical grade plastics in our 
devices which unfortunately cannot be recycled 
content in our product, but we do recycle  
the plastic following return from patient use.  
The Zio family of devices uses approximately 15 tons 
of medical-grade plastic at current run rates.  
Nearly all of this plastic is returned to iRhythm  
and responsibly recycled. We measure consumption 
and recycling of medical grade plastic by weight,  
and it is tracked monthly by shipment of products  
to and from patients. Over time, we expect future 
generations our devices to be miniaturized,  
and thus to contain less plastic content.
Our distributed Zio products involve approximately 
120 tons of paper material yearly (at current  
volumes), the vast majority of which is returned to 
iRhythm and recycled. Our office environments 
consume additional paper at typical office  
volumes. We use recycled material when possible. 72      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm Has an  
Environmentally Friendly  
Business ModelRegulatory performance requirements  
for product shipping prevent the use of recycled  
material in our packaging, but almost all  
packaging materials are recyclable.
At current rates, approximately 20 tons of waste  
(by weight) is expected to be non-hazardous  
landfill (e.g., vapor bags).
We work with Genesis Electronics Recycling, Inc.  
of Buffalo Grove, Illinois—a zero landfill recycler— 
to responsibly recycle all batteries and printed  
circuit boards (those that failed reuse), and  
have them recycle our dermal adhesive assemblies.  
For office-based waste, we recycle through  
municipal services associated with each of our  
office locations. We also have Iron Mountain, Inc. shred and recycle  
any printed material with Protected Health 
Information (PHI) or company confidential data,  
and recycle other paper materials and dispose  
of landfill waste by utilizing local & municipal services 
close our intake facilities. Some local services,  
San Francisco for example, also include compost.iRhythm Medical  
SASB Index09.74      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm Medical  
SASB IndexThis marks the first time iRhthym has reported against 
the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) 
standards. As an emerging growth healthcare 
company, we have included disclosures related to the 
SASB industry standards for Medical Equipment and 
Supplies industry. Our reporting against the SASB 
standards is a voluntary disclosure to support the 
evolving information needs of our investors. As such, 
we are committed to providing investors with useful, 
relevant, and meaningful sustainability information. The determination of the topics covered below is 
based on two factors: (i) sector-specific guidance 
provided by SASB and (ii) periodic assessments of 
sustainability issues that matter most to our 
stakeholders and our business. We will continue to 
evaluate these topics in the future and, accordingly, 
our disclosure may evolve over time.75      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm Medical  
SASB Index 
SASB RULESUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING STANDARDS  
(SASB) FRAMEWORKRESPONSE/LOCATION  
OF RELEVANT INFORMATION
Affordability and Pricing
HC-MS-240a.1 Ratio of weighted average rate of net price  
increases (for all products) to the annual increase  
in the U.S. Consumer Price IndexiRhythm’s Approach  
to Affordability and Pricing
HC-MS-240a.2 Description of how price information  
for each product is disclosed to customers  
or to their agentsiRhythm’s Approach  
to Affordability and Pricing
Product Safety
HC-MS-250a.1 Number of recalls issued, total units recalled iRhythm is Dedicated to Developing 
Safe Products for Patients
HC-MS-250a.2 List of products listed in the FDA’s  
MedWatch Safety Alerts for Human Medical  
Products databasefda.gov/safety/medwatch-fda-
safety-information-and-adverse-
event-reporting-program76      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm Medical  
SASB Index 
SASB RULESUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING STANDARDS  
(SASB) FRAMEWORKRESPONSE/LOCATION  
OF RELEVANT INFORMATION
HC-MS-250a.3 Number of fatalities related to products  
as reported in the FDA Manufacturer and User 
Facility Device Experienceaccessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/
cfdocs/cfmaude/search.cfm
HC-MS-250a.4 Number of FDA enforcement actions taken in 
response to violations of current Good 
Manufacturing Practices (cGMP), by typeiRhythm is Dedicated to Developing 
Safe Products for Patients
Ethical Marketing
HC-MS-270a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as  
a result of legal proceedings associated  
with false marketing claimsiRhythm’s Commitment  
to Ethical Conduct
HC-MS-270a.2 Description of code of ethics governing  
promotion of off-label use of productsIRhythm’s Code of Conduct77      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm Medical  
SASB Index 
SASB RULESUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING STANDARDS  
(SASB) FRAMEWORKRESPONSE/LOCATION  
OF RELEVANT INFORMATION
Product Design & Lifecycle Management
HC-MS-410a.1 Discussion of process to assess and manage 
environmental and human health considerations 
associated with chemicals in products,  
and meet demand for sustainable productsiRhythm Has an Environmentally 
Friendly Business Model
HC-MS-410a.2 Total amount of products accepted for takeback  
and reused, recycled, or donated, broken down by:  
(1) devices and equipment and (2) suppliesiRhythm Has an Environmentally 
Friendly Business Model
Supply Chain Management
HC-MS-430a.1 Percentage of (1) entity’s facilities and (2) Tier I 
suppliers’ facilities participating in third-party audit 
programs for manufacturing and product qualityiRhythm’s Primary Focus has  
Always Been on Patient Safety78      Zio by iRhythm ESG ReportiRhythm Medical  
SASB Index 
SASB RULESUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING STANDARDS  
(SASB) FRAMEWORKRESPONSE/LOCATION  
OF RELEVANT INFORMATION
HC-MS-430a.2 Description of efforts to maintain traceability  
within the distribution chainiRhythm’s Primary Focus has  
Always Been on Patient Safety
HC-MS-430a.3 Description of the management of risks  
associated with the use of critical materials iRhythm’s Primary Focus has  
Always Been on Patient Safety
Business Ethics
HC-MS-510a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result  
of legal proceedings associated with  
bribery or corruptioniRhythm’s Commitment  
to Ethical Conduct
HC-MS-510a.2 Description of code of ethics governing  
interactions with health care professionalsiRhythm’s Code of Conduct, 
iRhythm’s Primary Focus has Always 
Been on Patient Safety