SUSTAINABLE ENERGY, ENGINEERED SUSTAINABLY
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND 
GOVERNANCE REPORT, 2020
ITM
P
20EWO
RENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2020ITM POWER ESG REPORT  2020
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY, ENGINEERED SUSTAINABLY
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND 
GOVERNANCE REPORT, 2020
Letter from our CEO 1 
About this Report 2
ITM Power at a Glance 3
Our ESG Framework: Sustainable Energy, 
Engineered Sustainably5
Our Products 7
Case Study: Creating the World’s 
Largest PEM Electrolyser8
Our Influence
Case study: Decarbonising the Gas Grid 
Case Study: COP26 Education Programme9ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES
Material Uses
Energy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
Toxic Emissions, Waste and Water
Opportunities in Clean Technology11
SOCIAL ISSUES
Procurement Practices
Human Rights, Child Labour and Forced Labour
Customer Health and Safety14
Employee Health and Safety
Local Community Engagement
Labour and Management Relations
Diversity and Inclusion  16
Employment Practices
Employee Training and Education19
GOVERNANCE ISSUES
Responsible Governance
Tax
Anti-Corruption20
Data Security
Resilience and Risk Management
Stakeholder Engagement21“
ITM POWER ESG REPORT  2020We’re at a new stage in our development and robust 
ESG activity will be a critical part of our growth over 
the years ahead. 
That’s why, in 2021, we are launching our new ESG 
strategy: Sustainable Energy, Engineered Sustainably . 
This strategy represents a major step-change in our 
ambitions as a business. It is designed to ensure 
long-term growth that sustains, rather than harms, 
people and the planet, and helps us to deliver the 
best value for our shareholders in the years to come. 
We realise we have a lot to do, but we are determined 
to deliver on our ambitions and excited about what 
lies ahead.  
This report sets out our progress so far, including our 
partnership with Linde to create the world’s largest PEM 
electrolyser and our ambitious pilot with Keele University 
to decarbonise the gas grid. But, crucially, it also lays out 
our plans for the future, including our commitment to 
measure, report and set targets for our greenhouse gas 
emissions and to accelerate our investment in our 
employees and our local community through our new 
ITM Nurture and ITM Academy programmes. 
We’re still at the beginning of our journey – and we have 
a long way to go. But I know that through the power 
of our product, our people, and our business, we can 
work towards a world that our children and grandchildren 
will be proud of.LETTER FROM OUR CEO
King Willem Alexander opens HyStock, where ITM Power Plc supplied the electrolyser to Gasunie
I’m pleased to introduce ITM Power’s first 
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) report. 
My parents were environmental activists. Ever since 
I was a teenager, I’ve cared deeply about protecting our 
planet. I’ve worked in the power industry since 1989 
and watched the climate crisis rise up the global agenda.  
Today, we are at a turning point. If we act now, it is still 
possible to avoid heating our planet beyond the 1.5°C 
limit set out in the Paris Agreement – and avoid 
catastrophic consequences for people across the world. 
But if we continue emitting carbon at the current rate, 
we will run out of time. We have to make a choice 
about the kind of world we want our children and 
grandchildren to inherit. 
ITM Power’s mission is to help the world reach net zero 
through the power of green hydrogen. Our electrolysers 
use renewable energy and water to produce green, 
clean hydrogen that can be released into the gas grid, 
used as a clean vehicle fuel or in a host of industrial 
processes, with oxygen as the only by-product. 
We unlock the power of renewables to decarbonise the 
electricity grid and replace the polluting hydrogen that 
the market currently relies on. In doing so, we also help 
to deliver progress in line with several of the UN 
Sustainable Development Goals . 
Through our products, we can change the world. 
But we also need to be a responsible corporate citizen. 
This means bringing the same ambition we put into our 
products to developing our people, building links with 
our communities and suppliers, minimising the 
environmental footprint of our operations, and 
implementing strong governance processes to manage 
risks and secure the future of our business. We can’t 
just focus on sustainable energy. We have to engineer 
it sustainably too.
ITM Power has grown rapidly over the past five years, 
and continues to do so. At the start of 2021, we moved 
into our new 1GW per annum Gigafactory in Sheffield 
and announced the sale of the world’s largest Proton 
Exchange Membrane (PEM) electrolyser plant to Linde. THROUGH THE POWER 
OF GREEN HYDROGENITM POWER ESG REPORT  2020LETTER FROM OUR CEO
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY
“
DR GRAHAM COOLEY
CEO, ITM POWERITM POWER’S MISSION IS TO  
HELP THE WORLD REACH NET ZERO  ABOUT THIS REPORT  
THIS IS ITM POWER’S FIRST ESG REPORT.    
All data covers the calendar year January to December 2020, unless otherwise 
specified. This report is designed to reflect our ESG ambitions set out in our new 
ESG strategy, launched in April 2021. Our next ESG report will be published in 
2022, and will cover the period from January 2021 to April 2022, to align with our 
financial reporting cycle.   
For questions about the report, please contact James Collins, 
Head of Investor Relations, at JCOLLINS@ITM-POWER.COM .ITM POWER ESG REPORT  2020
ABOUT THIS REPORT
SUSTAINABLE ENERGYPEOPLE COME TO  
WORK AT ITM POWER ,  
BECAUSE THEY WANT  
TO MAKE THE WORLD 
A BETTER PLACE.   
 THAT’S WHAT 
BROUGHT ME HERE 
AND IT’S WHAT’S 
KEPT ME HERE 
FOR THE PAST 
TWENTY YEARS.  
 
 DR RACHEL SMITH 
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, ITM POWERFor the past twenty years, ITM Power has been designing and 
manufacturing electrolyser systems that generate hydrogen 
gas based on Proton Exchange Membrane (PEM) technology. 
Our electrolysers run on renewable electricity and water, with 
oxygen as the only by-product. We are a globally recognised 
expert in green hydrogen. 
In recent years, we’ve seen interest in green hydrogen increase 
rapidly worldwide. To meet potential demand and help accelerate 
global progress towards net zero, we have scaled up at speed. 
In 2021, we opened our new Gigafactory in Bessemer Park, 
Sheffield: the world’s largest electrolyser production factory. 
This represents a step-change in our ambition and capacity as 
a business, enabling us to cut the cost of electrolysers by almost 
40% in the next three years, from increased automation and 
economies of scale. 
We also work strategically with partners to scale our impact.
In 2019, we concluded a strategic investment and joint venture 
agreement with Linde Engineering, a global expert in engineering, 
procurement and construction for large industrial projects. 
The agreement, and our 50% investment in ITM Linde Electrolysis 
GmbH, allows us to focus solely on our prime source of competitive 
advantage: the efficient manufacture and supply of best-in-class 
PEM electrolysers. Linde will provide its world leading EPC services 
for the projects won through the new company. 
We also have a £30m strategic investment from, and a commercial 
partnership agreement with, Snam, one of the world’s leading 
energy infrastructure operators. 
For more details on our partnerships, see our 2020 Annual Report . ITM POWER ESG REPORT  2020
“ “ITM POWER 
AT A GLANCE
ITM Power plc (our holding company)
ITM Power (Research) Limited 
ITM Power (Trading) Limited 
ITM Power Inc. (which serves the US market)
ITM Power GmbH (which serves the German market)A
B
C
D
ETHE ITM GROUP CONSISTS 
OF FIVE MAIN COMPANIES
SUSTAINABLE ENERGYITM POWER AT A GLANCEITM POWER ESG REPORT  2020
ITM POWER AT A GLANCE
1 GW
A YEAR
 20+OUR GIGAFACTORY COULD 
ENABLE AN ADDITIONAL  
2 MILLION TONNES OF CO TO BE SAVED EVERY YEARFACTORY CAPACITYYEARS OF  
EXPERIENCE
THAT'S EQUIVALENT 
TO THE CO   EMISSIONS 
OF CHARGING 255 BILLION 
SMARTPHONES*22
*Assumes a typical conversion efficiency of 70%. Based on 
CertifHy analysis of carbon footprint of grey hydrogen.
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY
215+NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES
AND GROWING THE LARGEST  
IN THE WORLDSUSTAINABLE  
ENERGY
Help the world reach 
net zero through the power 
of green hydrogen
ENGINEERED
SUSTAINABLY
Protect people and 
the planet through 
how we do business
ENVIRONMENTAL
Calculate and report scope 1, 2 and 3 
greenhouse gas emissions and set emissions 
targets to reach net zero before 2050
SOCIAL
Develop and roll out 
ITM Nurture and ITM 
Academy programmes 
to support employees, 
communities and 
the environmentGOVERNANCE
Invest in future-fit  
governance processes  
for sustainable growth ““WE WANT ITM POWER  
TO BE A BUSINESS THAT 
IS SUSTAINABLE FOR THE 
LONG-TERM , THAT SUPPORTS 
THE ENERGY SECTOR 
FOR OUR CHILDREN 
AND GRANDCHILDREN.   
ULTIMATELY, ACTING 
RESPONSIBLY AND 
ETHICALLY WILL ALSO 
HELP US GENERATE 
THE BEST RETURNS FOR  
OUR SHAREHOLDERS.  
 
KATHERINE ROE
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 
AND ESG COMMITTEE CHAIRIDENTIFYING OUR MATERIAL ISSUES  
In 2020, we conducted a light-touch materiality process with internal 
stakeholders from different functions across our business, in order 
to identify the ESG issues where we have the biggest impact. We also 
reviewed feedback from external stakeholders, including investors, 
to make sure our ESG report and strategy reflected their views, and 
conducted a peer review to identify best practice within comparable 
organisations. The results were used to inform the development of 
this report and of our ESG strategy: Sustainable Energy, Engineered 
Sustainably . We plan to review and strengthen this process over time, 
so that we can structure our approach to ESG in a way that maximises 
the social and environmental impact of our approach. Before our next 
ESG report in 2022, we will also conduct a full materiality assessment 
of all our ESG impacts, consulting with internal and external 
stakeholders and benchmarking against comparable organisations.
ESG GOVERNANCE AT ITM POWER  
Our newly established ESG Committee is responsible for delivering 
and accelerating progress in line with our strategy: Sustainable Energy, 
Engineered Sustainably . The Committee is responsible for monitoring 
performance on ESG issues and providing feedback from across the 
business to external stakeholders, with the aim of continually 
progressing towards our targets. This Committee also reviews and 
approves our annual ESG report.
The Committee is chaired by our Non-Executive Director, Katherine Roe. 
Other members are Dr Graham Cooley, CEO, and Dr Rachel Smith, 
Executive Director. Our Head of Investor Relations and our Head of HR 
also attend committee meetings. The Committee meets at least twice 
a year for formal meetings, with additional ad-hoc discussions on 
specific projects being convened as required.  OUR ESG  
FRAMEWORKITM POWER ESG REPORT  2020
SUSTAINABLE ENERGYOUR ESG FRAMEWORKThe 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and the targets 
within each one, offer a blueprint for achieving a more peaceful and 
prosperous world by 2030. To deliver effectively on the UN SDGs, 
every organisation needs to focus their efforts where their actual 
and potential impact is greatest.
In developing our ESG strategy, we identified the four SDGs where  
we can have the greatest effect as a business. ITM POWER ESG REPORT  2020
ITM Power aims to cut the commercial cost 
of electrolysers over the next three years and 
thereby facilitate the widespread adoption 
of green hydrogen. 
This will directly contribute to ensuring 
access to affordable, reliable, sustainable 
and modern energy for all, addressing target 
7.2: to substantially increase the share of 
renewable energy in the global energy mix.By helping to decarbonise industrial processes 
through green hydrogen, our electrolysers 
support goal 9 and, particularly, target 9.4: 
to upgrade infrastructure and retrofit 
industries to make them sustainable, with 
increased resource use efficiency and greater 
adoption of clean and environmentally sound 
technologies and industrial processes.Through our hydrogen refuelling stations, 
which provide zero emissions fuel for mass 
transit systems, we contribute towards 
target 11.2: by 2030, to provide access 
to safe, affordable, accessible and sustainable 
transport systems for all.By helping to replace hydrogen produced 
directly from fossil fuels with green, 
emissions-free hydrogen, our electrolysers 
support target 12.2: by 2030, to achieve the 
sustainable management and efficient use 
of natural resources.SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALSOUR ESG FRAMEWORK
SUSTAINABLE ENERGYTHE CARBON FOOTPRINT  
OF GLOBAL HYDROGEN   
PRODUCTION IS 
“Hydrogen is a storable, lightweight, energy-dense fuel source with no direct greenhouse gas emissions. 
It has a host of industrial and chemical applications, and can also be released directlyinto the gas grid or used 
as a fuel for transport. Approximately 70 million tonnes of hydrogenare produced worldwide each year. “OUR PRODUCTS
CLEAN FUELS: 
Hydrogen has widespread application as a transport 
fuel for fuel cell electric vehicles. Our rapid response 
electrolyser systems can refuel a fuel cell electric 
vehicle in minutes, providing an emissions-free method 
of transportation. Our portfolio currently consists of 
fifteen wholly-owned hydrogen refuelling stations; 
nine of which are open to the public, and six in various 
stages of construction. Run by our ITM Power subsidiary, 
ITM Motive, these stations are targeted primarily at 
truck and bus fleets, which are significant contributors 
to CO2 emissions. ITM Motive aims to be the leading 
operator in this area in the UK, with the ambition to run 
a hundred fuelling stations within the next five years.
INDUSTRIAL HYDROGEN:  
Hydrogen has a range of applications in industrial 
chemistry. These include the production of ammonia 
fertiliser and as a means of improving the quality of 
fractional distillation products. 15% of the total CO2 
emissions from the European refinery sector can 
currently be attributed to hydrogen production. Our 
electrolysers provide a green alternative to the ‘grey 
hydrogen’ produced through steam reformation (with 
high CO2 emissions), which currently powers the vast 
majority of these processes. 
Once it is at full capacity, our new Gigafactory in 
Bessemer Park will have a factory electrolyser capacity 
of one gigawatt per year. If all our electrolysers are 
powered entirely on renewable energy, and the 
resulting green hydrogen is used to displace existing 
grey hydrogen use, these electrolysers could prevent up 
to two million tonnes CO2 from being emitted every year 
that they operate. That’s equivalent to the carbon 
emissions from charging 255 billion smartphones, 
or the carbon sequestered in one year by 2.6 million 
acres of forest.*
We want to minimise the environmental footprint of our 
electrolysers – including at the end of their life. 
Wherever possible, we aim to recover and reuse 
materials from our electrolysers (particularly precious 
metals), and currently recover approximately 80% of the 
precious metals in our electrolysers where we retain 
ownership of the products.  ITM POWER ESG REPORT  2020
HYDROGEN PRODUCED 
THROUGH PEM ELECTROLYSIS 
AND POWERED BY RENEWABLE 
ENERGY IS THE ONLY ZERO 
CARBON FUEL.
ALSO, UNLIKE OTHER FUELS,
IT DOESN’T REMOVE OXYGEN 
FROM THE ATMOSPHERE , 
OR ADD MORE WATER VAPOUR 
TO THE ATMOSPHERE THAN IT 
CONSUMES DURING 
PRODUCTION, WHICH HELPS 
RETAIN THE EARTH’S EXISTING 
OXYGEN AND WATER BALANCE. 
AND IT HAS NO NEGATIVE 
IMPACT ON AIR QUALITY.  
DR GRAHAM COOLEY
CEO, ITM POWER
96%OF THE WORLD'S HYDROGEN IS  
CURRENTLY MADE FROM FOSSIL FUELSOUR  
PRODUCTS
SUSTAINABLE ENERGYThe vast majority (96%) of the hydrogen currently 
produced globally is generated from fossil fuels. 
This gives hydrogen production a large carbon footprint: 
approximately 830 million tonnes of CO2 each year, 
which is roughly equivalent to the carbon footprints 
of the UK and Indonesia combined. 
Our products provide a solution. ITM Power designs and 
manufactures electrolysers, which generate hydrogen 
gas, based on PEM technology. Our electrolysers are 
designed to be powered effectively by renewable 
electricity and tap water to generate hydrogen gas 
on-site. This ‘green hydrogen’ can be used in several 
ways as follows. 
POWER-TO-GAS: 
Hydrogen gas provides a means of storing excess 
renewable energy at the point when it is generated, so 
it can be used when it is needed. This overcomes a 
major barrier to the mass adoption of renewable 
energy: energy generation from renewables can be 
intermittent and unpredictable, depending on natural 
variables, such as wind speed and daylight hours. 
By using excess renewable energy to generate hydrogen 
gas, ITM Power electrolysers produce zero carbon 
hydrogen that can be released into the gas 
grid whenever demand exists. This also helps to balance 
the grid without the need to ramp up a gas 
or coal power plant. PEM electrolysers are particularly 
well-suited to using renewable energy, due to their 
ability to respond rapidly to fluctuations in energy 
generation and to generate hydrogen at a pressure, 
flow-rate and purity appropriate to its application.
“OUR ELECTROLYSERS CAN RESPOND 
INCREDIBLY FAST – CHANGING LOAD IN LESS 
THAN TWO SECONDS. 
THIS MEANS THEY CAN REACT QUICKLY TO 
FLUCTUATING PATTERNS IN RENEWABLE 
ENERGY, SO WE CAN CAPTURE MORE OF THE 
POWER AVAILABLE.”  
DR ANDREW ELLIS B  
HEAD OF SALES N
830  
MILLION 
TONNES
*Assumes a typical conversion efficiency of 70%. Based on 
CertifHy analysis of carbon footprint of grey hydrogen.
ROUGHLY EQUIVALENT 
TO THE CARBON 
FOOTPRINTS OF THE 
UK AND INDONESIA 
COMBINEDCREATING THE WORLD’S 
LARGEST PEM ELECTROLYSER  
At the start of 2021, we announced the sale of the world’s 
largest PEM Electrolyser to Linde, the global industrial gases 
and engineering company. 
The 24-megawatt electrolyser, to be installed at Linde’s Leuna 
Chemical Complex in Germany, will use renewable electricity 
to produce green hydrogen for Linde’s industrial customers, 
as well as to refuelling stations and other industrial customers 
in the region.
It will produce enough green hydrogen to fuel approximately 
600 fuel cell buses driving 40 million kilometres – saving up to 
40,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide tailpipe emissions per year.
We will start production in 2022 through our joint venture with 
Linde: ITM Linde Electrolysis GmbH. This success is the result of 
a long-term, close working relationship between the ITM Power 
engineering team and Linde Engineering in Dresden.
This electrolyser was the first sale in our joint venture with 
Linde, and demonstrates the increasing levels of commitment 
from industry to use green hydrogen produced by electrolysis 
to decarbonise production processes.CASE STUDY: OUR ELECTROLYSER 
WILL PRODUCE ENOUGH 
GREEN HYDROGEN 
TO POWER 600 FUEL 
CELL BUSES DRIVING 
40 MILLION KILOMETRESCASE STUDY: CREATING THE WORLD'S  
BIGGEST PEM ELECTROLYSERITM POWER ESG REPORT  2020
SUSTAINABLE ENERGYCOP26 EDUCATION PROGRAMME 
Using the 2021 United Nations Climate Change Conference 
(COP26) in Glasgow as a focal point, we are working with not-for-
profit education specialist, Arcola Energy Education, to launch an 
ongoing education programme for the promotion of hydrogen and 
fuel cell technologies.
The project will deliver hydrogen-based STEM workshops across 
seven Scottish cities, with 100+ participating schools and over 
7,000 young people joining ‘design, build, race’ workshops to build 
their own hydrogen vehicle. Teams will be challenged to create the 
most energy efficient, hydrogen-powered vehicle possible using 
LEGO components and custom miniature fuel cells.
It will also include a ‘Hydrogen Hack’ challenge, which introduces 
young people aged 12-18 to hydrogen fuel cell technology by 
challenging them to build a device using a hydrogen fuel cell.
Our goal is to raise awareness and increase understanding of 
hydrogen through high-quality, hands-on education and to build 
advocacy among young people, future policy-makers and industry 
professionals who will power the energy transition.CASE STUDY: 
Copyright Arcola Energy, Commercial ConfidentialLondon - The Crystal
2
ITM POWER ESG REPORT  2020
CASE STUDY: To help the world reach net zero by 2050, we have to act beyond 
our own supply chain. We participate actively in industry bodies 
that champion sustainable power and guide policy, as well as 
working with schools and universities to help inspire the next 
generation about green hydrogen (see case study).
We are members of a number of industry associations in different 
territories, including (in the UK) the UK Hydrogen Fuel Cell 
Association and Renewables UK, (in France) Association Française 
de l'Hydrogène et des Piles à Combustible and (in Germany) 
Bundesverband Energiespeicher. For a full list of our industry 
associations, see our 2021 QCA Code Statement of Compliance . 
Our CEO, Dr Graham Cooley, joined the UK Government’s 
Hydrogen Advisory Council in 2020. ITM Power has also responded 
to and provided input into relevant Government consultations, 
including on hydrogen for heat and hydrogen mobility.
In addition, we work with research partners, including Keele 
University (see case study) on pioneering pilots to support the 
transition to net zero.OUR  
INFLUENCE
IF THIS PILOT WERE ROLLED OUT ACROSS 
THE UK, THE CARBON SAVINGS COULD 
BE EQUIVALENT TO TAKING
2.5   
MILLION CARS 
OFF THE ROAD
WITH EDUCATION AND 
ACTIVITIES ABOUT THE 
POWER OF HYDROGEN
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY
Copyright Arcola Energy, Commercial ConfidentialLondon - The Crystal
2
7000
YOUNG PEOPLEWE AIM TO REACHOUR INFLUENCE
In 2020, ITM Power launched HyDeploy: a ground-breaking green 
energy trial at Keele University, Staffordshire, that could help 
Britain cut its carbon emissions and open the door to a low-carbon 
hydrogen economy.
The HyDeploy demonstration is injecting up to 20% (by volume)  
of hydrogen into Keele University’s existing natural gas network, 
feeding 100 homes and 30 faculty buildings. The 20% hydrogen 
blend is the highest in Europe, together with a similar project 
being run by Engie in Northern France.
As a zero emissions gas, green hydrogen provides a means  
of heating homes without producing carbon dioxide. This will  
be essential to achieving global emissions reductions in line with 
the Paris Climate Agreement, and helping the UK achieve its 
ambitious climate change obligations.
Heating for domestic properties and industry accounts for half 
of the UK’s energy consumption and one-third of its carbon 
emissions, with 83% of homes using gas to keep warm. The 20% 
volume blend means that customers can continue to use their  
gas supply as normal, without any changes being needed to gas 
appliances or pipework, whilst still cutting carbon emissions.
If a 20% hydrogen blend were rolled out across the country, 
it could save around 6 million tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions 
every year, the equivalent of taking 2.5 million cars off the road.DECARBONISING 
THE GAS GRIDITM POWER ESG REPORT  2020
ENGINEERED SUSTAINABLYENGINEERED SUSTAINABLY
The following table sets out our progress, targets and 
future plans for managing the most material ESG issues 
for ITM Power. Addressing these issues is an essential 
part of being ‘engineered sustainably’. Links to further 
information are provided where relevant.MATERIAL USES ENERGY AND GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONSTOXIC EMISSIONS, 
WASTE AND WATEROPPORTUNITIES IN 
CLEAN TECHNOLOGY
Importance 
for ITMThe quality of the materials we use is 
essential to the success of our electrolysers. 
Being a sustainable, responsible business 
means  taking all possible action to mitigate 
any risks related to the sourcing and disposal 
of our materials.Our mission as a business is to help the 
world reach net zero through the power 
of green hydrogen. 
Our products run on renewable energy, 
converting it into green hydrogen that can be 
used as clean fuel, released into the gas grid 
or used in industrial processes. Manufacturing our electrolysers can 
affect the environment in which we operate, 
and we have a duty to protect natural 
resources and reduce waste through the way 
we do business. To achieve net zero global emissions by 
2050, the world needs to transition away 
from fossil fuels and towards emissions-
free fuels such as green hydrogen, 
produced from renewable energy.   
Offering engineering solutions that 
contribute to a more environmentally 
sustainable economy and reduce global 
reliance on fossil fuels is at the core 
of our mission as a business.
Approach 
and policiesThe EU Conflict Minerals Regulation 
applies to four minerals of high concern 
for human rights abuses: tin, tantalum, 
tungsten and gold. We do not buy these 
raw materials to manufacture our 
electrolysers. We also do not use cobalt, 
the extraction of which contributes 
to eutrophication and global warming. 
Where possible, we aim to reuse existing 
materials for creating our electrolysers, 
rather than sourcing new ones. We aim 
for the majority of our product materials 
to be recyclable where possible.All of our products are designed to reduce 
global reliance on fossil fuels. 
The electrolysers we produce use 
renewable energy and water to produce 
green hydrogen, with oxygen as the only 
by-product. This fuel can then be stored 
for release into the gas grid, used as 
a clean vehicle fuel or in a host of industrial 
processes. This green hydrogen serves 
as an alternative to the 96% of hydrogen 
worldwide that is currently produced 
directly from fossil fuels, with a carbon 
footprint of approximately 830 million 
tonnes of CO2 annually.
Indicators
PROPORTION OF  ELECTRICITY IN OUR NEW 
GIGAFACTORY AND HEAD OFFICE PROCURED  
FROM RENEWABLE SOURCES:  
  *Data as of March 2021 
100%*ITM POWER ESG REPORT  2020
Powering our own operations sustainably 
is another way in which we can deliver 
on our mission. 
pollution, and complying with all applicable 
environmental legislation, codes of practice 
and any other compliance obligations 
to which we subscribe. 
Beyond our own operations, our Supplier 
Code of Conduct also includes requirements 
for all ITM Power business partners to use 
energy and natural resources efficiently,
and to continually look for ways to minimise 
waste, emissions and discharge from their 
operations, products and services.
38 ,551 KG TOTAL WASTE  
FROM OPERATIONSToxic emissions in particular are an area 
of high importance to our stakeholders.
metals in our electrolysers where we retain 
ownership of the products. Where we do not 
own products, we aim to remain responsible 
for maintaining and repairing our 
electrolysers, allowing us to reduce waste 
by proactively maintaining components 
before they need to be replaced, and 
recovering waste materials once components 
reach end-of-life. 
We use deionised water to flush our 
manufacturing systems of imperfections and 
ensure our stacks are free of pollutants. 
We use significant quantities of water during 
the manufacturing process, but our only 
water discharge is in the form of vapour. 
Our Gigafactory is not based in a water-
stressed area. 
Beyond our own operations, our Supplier 
Code of Conduct also includes requirements 
for all ITM Power business partners to use 
energy and natural resources efficiently, 
and to continually look for ways to minimize 
waste, emissions and discharge of their 
operations, products and services. 
100%PROPORTION OF  
REVENUES THAT 
COME FROM  CLEAN 
TECHNOLOGY:Unlike battery manufacturers, our 
electrolysers are produced in a benign 
manufacturing environment with small 
volumes of acids being used. The emissions 
from our manufacturing do not pose 
a significant risk to our local environment. 
Our Environmental Policy, endorsed by our 
CEO, sets out our commitment to identifying 
all our environmental risks and managing 
their significant impacts on the environment; 
providing all employees with resources, 
equipment, information, instruction and 
training to fulfil this Policy; reducing waste, 
utility and resource use wherever possible; 
protecting the environment and preventing 
pollution, and complying with all applicable 
environmental legislation, codes of practice 
and any other compliance obligations 
to which we subscribe.
In 2019, we established a programme for full 
recycling of all waste materials from our 
operations wherever possible, working with 
Approved Authorised Treatment Facilities 
(AATFs) and environmentally aware recycling 
partners. To reduce the waste created by our 
products, we also aim for the majority of 
our product materials to be recyclable. 
We seek to recover and reuse materials from 
our electrolysers (particularly precious 
metals) wherever possible, and currently 
recover approximately 80% of the precious Our Environmental Policy, endorsed by our 
CEO, sets out our commitment to identifying 
all our environmental risks and managing 
their significant impacts on the environment; 
providing all employees with resources, 
equipment, information, instruction and 
training to fulfil this Policy; reducing waste, 
utility and resource use wherever possible; 
protecting the environment and preventingENVIRONMENTAL 
ISSUES
ENGINEERED SUSTAINABLYPROPORTION OF  ELECTRICITY IN OUR NEW 
GIGAFACTORY AND HEAD OFFICE PROCURED  
FROM RENEWABLE SOURCES:  
  *Data as of March 2021 MATERIAL USES ENERGY AND GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONSTOXIC EMISSIONS, 
WASTE AND WATEROPPORTUNITIES IN 
CLEAN TECHNOLOGY
Indicators
(Continued)
Supporting 
actions and 
initiativesIn addition to manufacturing these clean 
technology products, we also collaborate 
on research projects to increase the 
capacity of existing clean technology 
products. In 2020, we worked with Keele 
University on a pilot to inject up to 20% 
(by volume) of hydrogen into the natural 
gas network. If this blend were rolled out 
across the country, it could save around six 
million tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions 
every year (see case study for more 
information). 
In 2020, we were granted the London Stock 
Exchange Green Economy Mark, awarded 
to listed companies and funds, which 
derive 50% or more of their revenues from 
environmental solutions.
Future plans We will continue working towards our 
goal to reuse existing materials in creating 
new electrolysers, and to make product 
materials recyclable where possible Our new 1GW plant in Sheffield will cut the 
cost of electrolysers by 37.5% over the next 
three years, due to increased automation 
and economies of scale. Our ambition is 
to make this clean technology available on 
a mass scale, and thereby support a mass 
transition towards green hydrogen.
Link to more 
informationCode of Conduct for ITM Power’s
Business Partners Code of Conduct for ITM Power’s Business Partners
2021 QCA Code Statement of ComplianceCode of Conduct for ITM Power’s Business Partners   
2021 QCA Code Statement of ComplianceITM Power WebsiteWe will also implement an internal audit 
programme to measure compliance 
with the requirements of ISO 14001. 
Informed by the ISO 14001 requirements, 
we will set and review additional 
environmental objectives, targets and 
management programmes.ITM POWER ESG REPORT  2020
accreditation includes wide staff 
participation and consultation with 
employees and also auditing processes 
in the pursuit of zero harm to people 
or products.We will also implement an 
internal audit programme to measure 
compliance with the requirements of ISO 
14001. Informed by the ISO 14001 
requirements, we will set and review 
additional environmental objectives, 
targets and management programmes.We have set a target to reach net zero 
greenhouse gas emissions before 2050. 
To help us achieve – and exceed – this target, 
we will calculate our full Scope 1, 2 and 3 
greenhouse gas emissions, and report these 
figures in our next ESG report (to be published 
in 2022). We will use these calculations to set 
additional greenhouse gas emissions targets. 
To better manage our energy use, we are 
working towards establishing a UKAS-
accredited environmental management 
system to the specifications outlined in the 
International Standard, ISO 14001:2015. 
This is expected to be in place by August 
2021. The programme for accreditation 
includes wide staff participation and 
consultation with employees, as well as 
auditing processes in the pursuit of zero 
harm to people or products.Before May 2022, we will calculate the 
waste volumes from all ITM Power 
operations broken down by disposal 
route, and publish this information in our 
next ESG report. Based on this information, 
we will set targets to reduce the proportion 
of our waste being sent to less sustainable 
disposal routes, such as landfill.  
To better manage our waste and emissions, 
we are working towards establishing 
a UKAS-accredited environmental 
management system to the specifications 
outlined in the International Standard ISO, 
14001:2015. This is due to be in place 
by August 2021. The programme for 
ENGINEERED SUSTAINABLYENVIRONMENTAL 
ISSUES
WASTE  
BREAKDOWN
GENERAL WASTE
17,842 KGMIXED  
RECYCLING
12,318 KG
OTHER
8,381 KG BATTERIES
10 KGITM POWER ESG REPORT  2020
ENGINEERED SUSTAINABLYACTION TO ADDRESS SCOPE 1 
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONSACTION TO ADDRESS SCOPE 2  
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONSACTION TO ADDRESS SCOPE 3  
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
Calculate and report scope 1 greenhouse gas emissions 
(to be published in next ESG Report)Calculate and report scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions 
(to be published in next ESG Report)Calculate and report scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions
(to be published in next ESG Report)
Set targets for scope 1 greenhouse gas emissions Set targets for scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions Set targets for scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions
Continue driving internal improvements through 
ITM Power Environmental Policy, establishment 
of UKAS-accredited environmental management 
system and internal audit programmeContinue driving internal improvements through 
ITM Power Environmental Policy, establishment 
of UKAS-accredited environmental management 
system and internal audit programmeContinue driving internal improvements through 
ITM Power Environmental Policy, establishment 
of UKAS-accredited environmental management 
system and internal audit programme
Continue driving supply chain improvements through 
Supplier Code of Conduct
Before May 2022, assess 100% of our critical suppliers 
and 50% of our other direct material suppliers according
to ESG criteria, using this information to develop action 
plans with assessed suppliers to improve ESG performance 
where necessary
Before May 2022, develop an action plan for assessing 
100% of our direct material suppliers according to ESG 
criteria and improving ESG performance across our 
supply chainENERGY AND GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 
Future plansENVIRONMENTAL 
ISSUES 
PROCUREMENT PRACTICESHUMAN RIGHTS, CHILD LABOUR  
AND FORCED LABOUR 
CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY
Importance 
for ITMAs well as measuring and managing our 
own social and environmental impacts, 
we need to support our suppliers to act 
responsibly through our procurement 
of materials, and have a positive impact 
on the local and national communities
in which we operate.Slavery is more common today than at any 
point in history. Being a responsible business 
means taking every possible effort to identify 
and eliminate exploitative working practices 
wherever they occur, paying particular 
attention to higher-risk materials, 
including precious metals.Keeping our customers safe is critical for the 
success of our business. As we produce large 
industrial equipment, there are inevitable 
risks associated with the malfunctioning of our 
electrolysers, and we take every possible step 
to mitigate these.
Approach 
and policies
IndicatorsITM POWER ESG REPORT  2020
*Management of health and safety is led by 
our Board, which sets the direction of travel, 
our health and safety objectives and the 
framework for monitoring performance and 
compliance. The Board monitors health 
and safety performance and each meeting 
receives a regular performance update 
on action taken to promote health and 
safety throughout our business. Separately, 
we also have a monthly Health and Safety 
Committee, which includes representatives 
from each function in ITM Power. This helps 
ensure prompt reporting of concerns 
and rapid implementation of improvement 
plans.  
Quality control is at the core of our product 
manufacturing. We operate management 
systems in accordance with ISO 9001 2015, 
ISO 14001 2015 and OHSAS 18001 2007, 
and are planning to incorporate all our 
management systems under one UKAS-
accredited integrated management system 
in 2021 at the same time as upgrading the 
safety management system to ISO 45001. 
We conduct risk assessments for the full 
lifecycle of all products and operate 
a multistage testing process to ensure 
the safety of everything we produce. 
We implement a stage-gate process at the 
design stage of our products, with line 
manager sign-off required at each stage to 
minimise the risk of error. 
Once manufactured, we conduct Factory 
Acceptance Testing, vigorously testing all 
equipment before shipment. We then 
conduct additional Site Acceptance Testing 
with customer oversight in the field to 
further reduce the risk of any malfunction. 
Once our products are onsite, we solicit 
ongoing feedback from customers, through 
channels including an email reporting 
system, a support centre in Sheffield and an 
out-of-hours service. Customer feedback is 
built into the ‘lessons learnt’ process within ITM Power’s quality system and used to 
identify areas for further improvement. 
ITM Power has a service and maintenance 
capability either built into the commercial 
contract or done as an aftermarket sales 
opportunity. We offer a wide range of 
services across the UK and global network 
working hand-in-hand with our clients and 
their representatives. Any issues arising 
from these site activities are reported 
locally, as well as being reported and 
investigated through the ITM Power UK 
Health, Safety and Environment Department 
and Executive Team representative.
We maintain our hydrogen refuelling 
stations through fully trained and qualified 
personnel. 
Each ITM Power hydrogen station has 
undergone significant planning and testing 
before being opened for use, and we 
maintain this high level of operational 
visibility at all times. Our stations are 
monitored 24 hours a day, 365 days a year 
by fully trained staff in our global Control 
room in Sheffield. All stations have 
emergency plans, specific to the station 
layout and design. Fuel customers also have 
access to a 24-hour helpline and from our 
mobile support team.
Our Head of Quality is responsible for 
working with suppliers to continually 
improve the quality of our materials and 
oversee the implementation of our quality 
control procedures. 
To monitor the implementation of our 
procedures, we collect data on near misses, 
positive observations, product leaks and 
non-conformances. We hold weekly 
meetings to review any near misses 
and monthly meetings to assess progress 
against other indicators, as well as urgent 
meetings wherever necessary.
100%We seek to establish and maintain close 
working relationships with suppliers. 
We have a longstanding supply base, and 
the majority of our direct suppliers have 
been working with us for over ten years.
Wherever possible, we aim to use local 
suppliers, and the majority of our direct 
suppliers are based in the UK. 
We have a Supplier Code of Conduct, 
which we require all direct suppliers to 
comply with. This sets out our expectations 
for all our business partners, including 
contractors, vendors, service providers, 
agents and contingent labour, their 
employees and their suppliers. It is publicly 
available on our website and includes 
minimum criteria around bribery and 
corruption, environmental and social 
performance, human rights and modern 
slavery, non-discrimination and freedom 
of association, and whistle-blowing. 
In addition to our Code of Conduct, 
all new direct material suppliers are 
required to complete our Supplier 
Qualification Questionnaire, which 
includes questions on health and safety, environmental management systems in 
place, training and development, corruption 
and human rights, including labour rights. 
Responses are then reviewed by our health 
and safety, quality and procurement teams 
who approve or reject suppliers based 
on their responses to certain areas within 
the questionnaire.
All material contracts are also required to 
be reviewed and signed by a director of ITM 
Power and are reviewed by our legal team.
Where direct suppliers are providing ITM 
Power with higher-risk products (such as 
those that require us to share intellectual 
property), we conduct supplier visits to 
inspect the premises and perform quality 
spot checks.
We aim to be a responsible and supportive 
business partner, and to help our suppliers 
continually develop and improve. This 
brings benefits to both us and our suppliers.
PROPORTION OF NEW 
DIRECT MATERIAL 
SUPPLIERS ASSESSED 
USING OUR  SUPPLIER 
QUALIFICATION 
QUESTIONNAIRE: 
100%To guard against the risk of human 
rights abuses, our Code of Conduct also 
mandates that direct suppliers provide 
their own employees, suppliers and 
business partners with a dedicated 
whistle-blowing mechanism whereby 
they can log a grievance if they see 
something that is unsafe, unethical or 
potentially harmful involving either their 
or ITM Power’s businesses or activities. 
Suppliers are required to comply with 
any applicable laws and regulations 
on freedom of association and collective 
bargaining. Our Supplier Qualification 
Questionnaire, which all new direct 
material suppliers are required 
to complete, includes questions 
on human rights, child labour, forced 
labour and employee provision to 
confirm compliance with our Code 
of Conduct.The EU Conflict Minerals Regulation applies 
to four minerals of high concern for human 
rights abuses: tin, tantalum, tungsten 
and gold. 
We do not buy these raw materials to 
manufacture our electrolysers. 
Our Supplier Code of Conduct, which all 
direct suppliers are required to comply with, 
refers directly to human rights and modern 
slavery. This sets out our expectations 
for all ITM Power business partners to 
meet the responsibilities set out in the UN 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights and 
the core conventions of the International 
Labour Organisation, including no use of 
child, forced, prison or compulsory labour; 
no restriction of the free movement of 
employees and no payment of recruitment 
fees by workers. All direct suppliers are 
required to pay wages and benefits that 
meet or exceed the national legal standards, 
comply with all applicable laws and 
regulations on working hours, and provide 
a safe, secure and healthy workplace.SOCIAL
ISSUES
PROPORTION OF NEW DIRECT 
MATERIAL SUPPLIERS REQUIRED 
TO PROVIDE INFORMATION ABOUT HUMAN RIGHTS, 
CHILD LABOUR AND FORCED LABOUR  AS PART 
OF THE PROCUREMENT PROCESS: 
ENGINEERED SUSTAINABLYITM POWER ESG REPORT  2020
PROCUREMENT PRACTICESHUMAN RIGHTS, CHILD LABOUR  
AND FORCED LABOUR CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY
Supporting 
actions and 
initiatives
Future plans
Link to more 
informationCode of Conduct for ITM Power’s Business Partners
2021 QCA Code Statement of ComplianceCode of Conduct for ITM Power’s Business Partners 2021 QCA Code Statement of Compliance
2020 Annual Report and Financial Statements 
ITM Power WebsiteIn 2020, we developed our Supplier 
Qualification Questionnaire, which all 
new direct material suppliers are required 
to complete before being approved by 
ITM Power. We are now in the process 
of risk-assessing our existing supply base 
and using these results to determine the 
order in which our existing suppliers are 
required to complete the questionnaire. In 2020, we also created a supplier 
development procedure to help our 
suppliers continually develop and improve 
their own operations. This consists 
of a number of stages, including an onsite 
visit, developing an action plan to address 
priority issues, and ongoing monitoring 
of this plan’s implementation through 
a quality rating system.To better address our needs and risks as 
we scale up our manufacturing, in 2020, 
we appointed a new Head of Health and 
Safety, a new Head of Quality and a new 
Head of After-Sales Support.
We also created a new safety induction 
process for employees as part of the move 
to our new headquarters in Bessemer Park.
Before May 2022, we will assess 100% 
of our critical suppliers and 50% of our 
other direct material suppliers according 
to ESG criteria, to help us map the ESG 
performance of our current supply base. 
We will use this information to develop 
action plans with assessed suppliers 
to improve ESG performance where 
necessary. Before May 2022, we will 
also develop an action plan for assessing 
100% of our direct material suppliers according to ESG criteria and driving ESG 
improvements across our supply chain.Before May 2022, we will assess 100% 
of our critical suppliers and 50% of our 
other direct material suppliers according 
to ESG criteria, to help us map the ESG 
performance of our current supply base. 
We will use this information to develop 
action plans with assessed suppliers to 
improve ESG performance where necessary. 
Before May 2022, we will also develop 
an action plan for assessing 100% of our 
direct material suppliers according to ESG 
criteria and driving ESG improvements 
across our supply chain.As ITM Power progresses towards attaining 
ISO 45001 and ISO 14001 UKAS accreditation 
later in 2021, we have external support 
in conducting gap analysis to identify 
improvement opportunities to meet and, 
where possible, exceed the expectations 
of the accreditation. The programme for 
accreditation includes wide staff participation 
and consultation with employees and also 
auditing processes in the pursuit of zero 
harm to people or products.
ENGINEERED SUSTAINABLYSOCIAL
ISSUESEMPLOYEE HEALTH 
AND SAFETYLOCAL COMMUNITY 
ENGAGEMENTLABOUR AND  
MANAGEMENT RELATIONSDIVERSITY 
AND INCLUSION
Importance 
for ITMAs we move into our new Gigafactory at 
Bessemer Park in Sheffield, building good 
relationships with the local Sheffield 
community will help us gain the trust and 
support of potential employees and customers, 
as well as local stakeholders. Dedicated 
community engagement is also an important 
part of being a socially responsible and 
innovative business and will form part of our 
ITM Nurture strategy.Attracting, retaining and supporting employees 
from diverse backgrounds helps our business 
better reflect and understand the customers 
we serve, and the Sheffield community in 
which we operate. It reduces risk, facilitates 
employee retention and wellbeing, and 
promotes wider social equality and mobility.
Approach 
and policiesWe actively engage with the local community 
around our Bessemer Park factory, including 
through local events focused on encouraging 
alternative forms of travel (such as hydrogen 
vehicles), events for students and local 
schools and by taking part in local events 
showcasing apprenticeships. We also support 
charitable causes in our local area.Our Equal Opportunities Policy sets out 
our commitment to promoting equality of 
opportunity for all staff and job applicants. 
We aim to create a working environment 
in which everyone is able to make the best 
use of their skills, free from discrimination 
or harassment, and in which all decisions are 
based on merit. The Policy includes specific 
clauses relating to employee recruitment and 
selection, training and development, 
opportunities for promotion, conditions 
of service and termination of employment, 
including redundancy.
In our recruitment practices, we positively 
encourage applications from suitably qualified 
and eligible candidates, regardless of disability. ITM POWER ESG REPORT  2020
All ITM Power employees, including 
managers, are provided with a copy 
of our employee handbook. This sets out 
the main policies and procedures that 
employees need to be aware of, whilst 
employed by ITM Power. Employees are 
notified of any changes in these policies 
through our HR system, including 
contractual changes. We comply with 
all relevant labour laws and, in most areas, 
our employment practices exceed 
statutory minimums. Our policies recognise 
trade unions, but we do not currently 
have a specific policy on unionisation.
We place real value on the involvement 
of our employees and continue to keep 
them informed on matters affecting them, 
and on the performance of ITM Power. This 
is achieved through formal and informal 
meetings. Employee representatives are 
consulted regularly on a wide range of 
matters affecting their current and future 
interests. Company-wide emails, an 
employee newsletter and suggestion boxes 
are also utilised for wider participation. 
Every year, the Executive Directors present 
the annual results to the workforce 
and ITM Power employees are able to 
engage and ask questions. 
We operate an open-door management 
policy, which enables regular feedback, and 
we also solicit employee feedback through 
mechanisms, such as regular electronic Management of health and safety is led by 
our Board, which sets the direction of 
travel, our health and safety objectives and 
the framework for monitoring performance 
and compliance. The Board monitors health 
and safety performance and each meeting 
receives a regular performance update on 
action taken to promote health and safety 
throughout our business. Separately, 
we also have a monthly Health and Safety 
Committee, which includes representatives 
from each function in ITM Power. This helps 
ensure prompt reporting of concerns and 
rapid implementation of improvement 
plans.  
Our Health and Safety Policy is provided 
to all employees as part of our employee 
handbook. It sets out our commitment
to maintaining safe and healthy working 
conditions through control of the health 
and safety risks arising from our work 
activities; provision and maintenance 
of safe plant and equipment; ensuring 
the safe handling and use of substances; 
consulting with our employees and 
providing appropriate information, 
instruction, training and supervision; and 
taking steps to prevent accidents and cases 
of work-related ill health.
Employee accidents and injuries are 
a particular risk in our factory. To guard 
against this, we conduct planned 
preventative maintenance of all our 
equipment, ensuring that machinery 
and services are regularly maintained 
before problems occur. 
Training and development is an important 
part of upholding health and safety 
standards, and this starts at the top. 
Our Board has undertaken a course on 
leading health and safety based on the 
Institute of Directors and Health and Safety 
Executive guidance on Leading Safely. surveys (for example, consulting on the 
move to our new premises and on our 
health and safety culture).
To reward employee efforts, we have 
a recognition scheme in place whereby 
they can nominate their colleagues for 
excellent work or providing support. 
We had over 100 nominations in the first 
twelve months of the scheme’s inception.
Within our supply chain, we also take 
steps to promote freedom of association, 
collective bargaining and a ‘speak up’ 
culture. Our Supplier Code of Conduct 
includes a section on Freedom of 
Association, in which we mandate that 
any ITM Power business partner must 
comply with all applicable laws and 
regulations on freedom of association 
and collective bargaining. We also 
mandate that direct suppliers provide 
their own employees, suppliers and 
business partners with a dedicated 
whistle-blowing mechanism whereby 
they can log a grievance if they see any 
unsafe, unethical or potentially harmful 
activity involving either their or ITM 
Power’s businesses or activities.Keeping our employees safe is our first 
priority – and has remained so throughout 
the Covid-19 pandemic. Workers at our 
new factory are required to operate 
powerful and complex machinery in 
order to manufacture our electrolysers. Strong relationships and consultative 
practices between employees and 
managers help to contribute towards 
a positive, healthy working environment 
at ITM Power. This is also an area of 
particular focus for our stakeholders, 
as poor labour and management 
relations pose a risk to the sustainability 
of our business.
We also employ dedicated safety 
professionals who are all NEBOSH trained. 
We have a three-tiered structure for staff 
health and safety training, through which 
we encourage employees to assess and 
improve their competency.
In addition to our Health and Safety 
Policy, all new employees are provided 
with our Occupational Health Policy. 
This includes our requirement that all 
new employees complete a medical 
questionnaire and a medical examination 
to identify whether any reasonable 
adjustments need to be made to their 
working conditions. These checks are 
repeated on an annual basis or at any 
point when a change in an employee’s 
health makes it necessary.
To ensure our Policies are being 
implemented, we collect data on near 
misses, positive observations, incidents 
and cases of employee ill health, which 
are reported back to the Board and in 
our weekly health and safety meetings. 
In addition, each function has key 
performance indicators for health and 
safety performance.
Beyond our business, our Supplier Code 
of Conduct also includes requirements 
that all ITM Power direct suppliers have 
a systematic approach to health, safety 
and security designed to ensure 
compliance with all applicable health 
and safety laws and regulations. Direct 
suppliers must also seek to continually 
improve performance by encouraging 
their workforce and any suppliers to 
report any accident, injury, illness, or 
unsafe condition immediately, and to 
cease any work that could be unsafe so 
that appropriate action can be taken.
ENGINEERED SUSTAINABLYSOCIAL
ISSUES
Therefore, correct risk mitigation and 
training are essential to guard against 
injury.ITM POWER ESG REPORT  2020
GENDER BREAKDOWN 
EXECUTIVE BOARD EXCLUDING 
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS*GENDER BREAKDOWN  
(ALL EMPLOYEES)*ETHNICITY BREAKDOWN  
(ALL SURVEY RESPONDENTS)**AGE BREAKDOWN  
(ALL SURVEY RESPONDENTS)**72.4%
MALE54.14%
BETWEEN 30-50 
YEARS OLD27.6%
FEMALE25% 
FEMALE
75%
MALE24.86%
OVER 50 
YEARS OLD19.89%
UNDER 30 
YEARS OLD1.11%
PREFER NOT TO SAY
84.5% 
WHITE 
ETHNIC GROUPS15.5%
ALL OTHER ETHNIC 
GROUPS COMBINEDDIVERSITY AND INCLUSION 
Indicators
ENGINEERED SUSTAINABLYSOCIAL
ISSUES
*DATA AS OF YEAR END, 2020**In March 2021, we conducted a baseline monitoring survey 
to help shape our new diversity and inclusion strategy. 
74.2% of employees responded. This provided additional data 
on our current workplace diversity. The level of data granularity 
is reflective of the size of our employee community.EMPLOYEE HEALTH 
AND SAFETYLOCAL COMMUNITY 
ENGAGEMENTLABOUR AND  
MANAGEMENT RELATIONSDIVERSITY 
AND INCLUSION
Indicators 
Supporting 
actions and 
initiativesIn 2020, we provided Christmas charity 
donations to two local charities: Sheffield 
Children’s Hospital and the Archer Project 
in Sheffield city centre, which provides 
food to homeless people over the winter 
period. To celebrate the opening of our new 
factory, we also supported local learning 
charity, Autism Plus, providing office 
equipment and PCs to support the creation 
of a comfortable, well-equipped learning 
environment for job-seekers with autism.
To encourage employees to raise funds 
for charitable causes in their own time, in 
2020 we established a charity committee 
to match funds raised by employees for 
charitable causes. The charity committee 
and community engagement both sit within 
our new ITM Nurture strategy.
Future plans We are currently developing our ITM 
Nurture and ITM Academy programmes, 
which aim to support the lives of ITM 
people and enhance the communities 
in which we operate. These will include 
plans for increased employee engagement 
with local schools, charity support within 
our local community and employee 
volunteering programmes to work with local 
charities and organisations. One particular 
aim is to widen our reach within our local 
community to promote environmental and 
educational events, and to share knowledge 
and understanding about green hydrogen.In 2021, we will launch a new and more 
engaging intranet platform for the 
communication of non-confidential 
employment matters to employees. Monitoring and improving workplace diversity 
will be an essential part of our new HR strategy 
for 2021-22.
Link to more 
information2021 QCA Code Statement of Compliance  
2020 Annual Report and Financial Statements 
ITM Power Website  2021 QCA Code Statement of Compliance Code of Conduct for ITM Power’s Business Partners
2021 QCA Code Statement of Compliance2021 QCA Code Statement of ComplianceDue to the risks posed to staff health by 
Covid-19, in 2020 our factory was 
temporarily reduced to a skeleton staff 
between March and June for the welfare
of staff, whilst changes were implemented 
to ensure the premises were considered 
Covid-secure. In early June, we began the 
process of returning people to the 
factory. This required risk assessments of 
the areas to make them suitable for work 
under new social distancing rules, close 
liaison with shop floor personnel over 
abilities to return to work and skillset 
requirements to further the production 
process at the correct times, as well as 
return to work inductions to explain the 
new PPE and location requirements for 
safe effective working.
In 2020, we rolled out a new safety 
observation system across the business 
to better capture observations and near 
misses and therefore reduce the number 
of injuries incurred by employees. We also upgraded our requirements 
regarding robust investigations and trained 
key staff in 8D (8 Disciplines) Root Cause 
Analysis in order to systematically identify 
and prevent any underlying health and 
safety issues. In December 2020, our Board 
undertook training based on the Institute 
of Directors and Health and Safety 
Executive Leading Safely guidance, as part 
of its commitment to leading safety from 
the top.
To monitor employees’ mental, as well 
as their physical, health, we introduced 
ten mental health first aiders within our 
business, all of whom had received 
external training. 
In 2020, we appointed a new Head of 
Health and Safety, a new Head of Quality 
and a new Head of After-Sales Support. 
We also created a new safety induction 
process, as part of the move to our new 
headquarters in Bessemer Park.In 2020, we launched a new long-term 
incentive plan for all Group staff and a share 
incentive plan (enabling staff to buy shares 
on a tax-efficient basis and receive matching 
shares from ITM Power). The range of 
staff benefits also includes childcare 
vouchers and a cycle purchase scheme,
 as well as accessing training courses 
relevant to employees’ roles. 
In 2021, we will continue to target zero 
lost time days from injury and zero 
workplace accidents. As ITM Power 
progresses towards attaining ISO 45001 
and ISO 14001 UKAS accreditation later 
in 2021, we have external support in 
conducting gap analysis to identify 
improvement opportunities to meet and, 
where possible, exceed the expectations 
of the accreditation. The programme for 
accreditation includes wide staff 
participation and consultation with 
employees, as well as auditing processes in the pursuit of zero harm to people
or products. A further employee survey 
on health and safety is expected in Q1 
of 2021.
We will continue to monitor the impact 
of Covid-19 on our operations and act 
quickly and decisively to protect the 
health and wellbeing of staff.
We also plan to roll out 8D training to 
reach more of our staff in 2021. 
20TOTAL 
INCIDENTSITM POWER ESG REPORT  2020
ENGINEERED SUSTAINABLYSOCIAL
ISSUES
215NUMBER OF 
EMPLOYEES
35LOST TIME DAYSITM POWER ESG REPORT  2020
EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES EMPLOYEE TRAINING AND EDUCATION
Importance 
for ITMThe specialist and technical skills of our 
employees are essential to maintaining the 
quality of our products. Keeping our employees 
motivated and supported is, therefore, a major 
priority. It increases employee retention and 
development, improves the quality of our 
outputs as a business and results in a more 
positive work environment for everyone.  As a business within the new technologies 
market, our vast knowledge of our employees 
is one of our greatest assets. Improving this 
knowledge base, as well as ensuring high levels 
of technical competence, helps us to continually 
improve the innovation and quality of our work.
Approach 
and policies
Indicators
Supporting 
actions and 
initiatives
Future plans A full review of employment practices will be 
a fundamental part of the formal HR strategy 
to ensure all working practices reflect the 
direction of travel for ITM Power.
Link to more 
information2021 QCA Code Statement of Compliance  
2020 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2021 QCA Code Statement of ComplianceOur employee handbook sets out our 
employee benefits and policies, many of 
which exceed statutory minimums. We offer 
enhanced maternity, paternity and adoption 
pay, as well as shared parental leave, 
allowing parents to take up to 52 weeks’ 
leave in total on the birth or placement 
for adoption of a child. To protect and promote staff wellbeing, we 
also have a detailed Anti-Harassment and 
Bullying Policy, which sets out examples of 
the types of conduct that may constitute 
harassment or bullying and our commitment 
to eliminating such conduct. Our Stress 
Policy lists our actions for identifying, 
tackling and preventing the causes of work-
related stress and to providing appropriate 
support and consideration to employees 
suffering from stress, on a confidential basis We actively encourage training and 
Continuing Professional Development (CPD) 
for all our employees. As part of this, we offer 
financial support for employees to support 
them through further training and 
qualifications when the training relates  
to a business need. Recent examples of 
financial support provided include MBA 
sponsorship, leadership and management 
training, as well as technical training.Employee training needs are identified 
through regular employee appraisals and 
competency review. All employees are given 
appropriate access to relevant training to 
enable them to progress within the 
organisation.
ITM Power offer apprenticeships in all areas 
of our business. We are currently training six 
apprentices, across various sub-departments 
within production and quality functions. We work closely with the Advanced 
Manufacturing Research Centre at Sheffield 
University to ensure we support our 
apprentices to be the best they can be.
In 2020, we launched a new long-term 
incentive plan for all Group staff and a share 
incentive plan (enabling staff to buy shares 
on a tax-efficient basis and receive matching 
shares from ITM Power). 
The range of staff benefits also includes 
childcare vouchers and a cycle purchase 
scheme as well as accessing training 
courses relevant to the employee’s role. We also appointed a new Head of Human 
Resources and increased the size and reach of 
the HR function to provide strategic and 
operational service delivery. We have put in 
place an industry-leading Employee Assistance 
Programme run by Health Assured. 
The Employee Assistance Programme is a wide 
range of services that any ITM Power 
employee can access without cost, and totally confidentially. This includes unlimited 
access to counselling, legal information, 
bereavement support, medical information 
and online Cognitive Behavioural Therapy. 
During the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic,  
we interacted regularly with employees to 
ensure that staff have been able to work 
effectively and flexibly, whilst impacted by 
school closures and lockdowns.In 2021, we will begin monitoring a range 
of key performance indicators related to 
training and development. These will include 
the number of training hours completed per 
department and the number of professional 
qualifications undertaken. 
We will also launch the ITM Academy. 
This will be the home for learning and 
development across ITM Power and aims 
to significantly expand the development opportunities and support for all ITM Power 
staff. It will become a hub for developing 
staff, providing a structured induction 
programme alongside technical and 
leadership training. We want the Academy 
to become a global centre of excellence 
for training our team members, as well as 
providing training opportunities for our 
partners who work with us. In addition, 
our HR team will also update our 
performance management system for 
supporting staff development.As part of our ITM Academy programme, 
we will explore the potential for further 
apprenticeships within our business. 
We will also begin inviting industrial 
placement students to join the business 
for a 12-month placement. These 
placements provide students with an 
opportunity to gain  insight into a possible 
industry of choice for them, as well as 
giving us access to future graduate talent.where appropriate. These include ensuring 
that risk assessments include or specifically 
address workplace stress; maintaining an 
appraisal process to ensure the suitability 
of workloads, supported by a capability 
procedure; and facilitating requests for 
flexible working where reasonably 
practicable in accordance with our Flexible 
Working Policy. 
ENGINEERED SUSTAINABLYSOCIAL
ISSUESITM POWER ESG REPORT  2020
RESPONSIBLE GOVERNANCE TAX ANTI-CORRUPTION
Importance 
for ITMCompanies have a responsibility to contribute 
to the countries wherein they do business. 
For ITM Power, we believe that this is part 
of being a responsible business that is accountable 
to ourselves, to society and to future generations. 
Approach 
and policiesWe are transparent in our tax reporting and 
disclose information about our tax position in our 
Annual Report. 
Indicators
Supporting 
actions and 
initiativesDetails of our corporate governance activities
in 2020 can be found on our website and in our 
Annual Report .
Future plans Once profitable, we will comply not only with the 
letter of the law, but also the underlying intent to 
ensure that we pay the right amount of tax, on 
time, in the countries wherein we operate. We will 
cooperate with the authorities in the countries 
wherein we operate to support effective tax 
systems. 
Link to more 
information2021 QCA Code Statement of Compliance  
2020 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2020 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2021 QCA Code Statement of Compliance   
Code of Ethics (once published)
0As our business has grown over the past two 
years, we’ve strengthened our corporate 
governance procedures to ensure our business 
is fit for the future.
Our Board is ultimately responsible for our 
strategy and direction. Our Board consists of 
nine members, five of whom are Non-Executive 
Directors. We consider all our Non-Executive 
Directors to be independent in character and 
judgement and each provides us with valuable 
advice and challenge to stay on track with 
our strategy. In 2018, we adopted the Corporate Governance 
Code for Small and Mid-Size Quoted Companies 
from the Quoted Companies Alliance (the ‘QCA 
Code’). More details of our approach to corporate 
governance and how we apply the ten principles of 
the QCA Code in support of our growth are publicly 
available on our website and in our Annual Report.Good governance is vital for making ITM 
Power a sustainable organisation as we scale 
up, reducing risk and adding value to our Corruption and fraud are internationally 
recognised as significant threats to both social 
development and the market economy, 
because of the disruptive effect on competitive 
markets and the misallocation of resources. 
Our Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy sets 
out our ‘zero tolerance’ approach to corruption 
and bribery in any form. It summarises our 
commitments to ensuring a systematic 
approach to risk assessment of the nature and 
extent of bribery risk associated within the 
construction industry and global market, and 
training employees to recognise, avoid and 
report the use of bribery by themselves and 
others. All employees receive this Policy as part 
of their employee handbook upon joining the 
business.Beyond o ur own supply chain, we also include 
clauses in our contracts and our Supplier 
Code of Conduct to prevent corruption. Our 
Qualification Questionnaire for new direct 
material suppliers also includes questions 
on whether suppliers have a policy and/or 
an employee training programme relating to 
anti-corruption, as well as whether they have 
been subject to litigation or criminal charges 
regarding bribery and corruption.
Our newly created ESG Committee ensures that
ESG matters remain high on the business agenda. 
The Committee is responsible for setting our ESG 
strategy and policy, monitoring performance and 
providing feedback from across the business to 
external stakeholders, with the aim of continually 
progressing towards our targets.
The Committee is chaired by our Non-Executive 
Director Katherine Roe with additional members 
consisting of Dr Graham Cooley, CEO, and Dr 
Rachel Smith, Executive Director. It is also 
attended by our Head of Investor Relations and our Head of HR. The Committee meets at least 
twice a year for formal meetings, with additional 
ad-hoc discussions on specific projects being 
convened as required.  
We are cur rently reviewing the inclusion of ESG 
KPIs for our Executive Board to link remuneration 
with ESG performance. As part of our increased 
focus on diversity and inclusion, we will also seek 
to improve the diversity of our Board. In 2021, we will be launching a Code of Ethics 
and a revised anti-fraud and bribery 
programme, reflecting the growth in our 
operations and numbers of staff. As part 
of this process, we will be developing KPIs to 
track the success of our programme, and will 
also undertake a programme of training for 
100% of staff on the Code of Ethics and the 
updated anti-fraud and bribery programme. 
This training will also be built into inductions 
for new starters.TOTAL SIGNIFICANT FINES AND 
NON-MONETARY SANCTIONS 
FOR NON-COMPLIANCE WITH 
LAWS AND/OR REGULATIONS: GOVERNANCE
ISSUES
ENGINEERED SUSTAINABLYThey also undermine the rule of law, and public 
trust in public servants and business leaders. 
As our business scales up, we need robust 
policies in place to eliminate these practices.business. Strong governance is also essential 
for delivering on our business values: working 
with integrity, embracing innovation and 
creating value for our customers, people, 
suppliers and shareholders. 
DATA SECURITYRESILIENCE AND RISK 
MANAGEMENT 
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 
Importance 
for ITMThere are a number of risks and uncertainties 
that have the potential to impact the execution 
of our strategy, as well as our short-term results. 
Proactively identifying, managing and mitigating 
these risks is essential to the success of our 
business.
Approach 
and policiesThe Executive Directors review the risks facing 
ITM Power, including financial risks, and the Board 
identifies and publishes our principal risks in our 
Annual Report, along with our governance 
processes to mitigate these risks. Key business 
risks and mitigations are considered to be related 
to Covid-19, Brexit, Technology and IP , Markets, 
Traction and Growth Trajectory, People, Safety, 
Partnerships, and Legal and Statutory Risks.
The Board is responsible for the risk framework 
and aims to ensure that the Group’s ability to 
achieve its objectives outweighs its risk exposure. 
The Executive Directors are responsible for 
identifying, managing and mitigating the risks to 
the Company. We have a monthly review process 
to assess risks at corporate level and project-
specific risks are reviewed at project level. The 
Audit Committee reviews the processes and 
controls for ensuring material business risks are 
identified and managed appropriately.
We take ESG considerations into account when 
reviewing the risks facing ITM Power, and our ESG 
committee has particular responsibility for 
reviewing these.
More details on our risk management approach 
can be found in our Annual Report and in our 2021 
QCA Code Statement of Compliance.
Indicators
Supporting 
actions and 
initiativesIn 2020, we introduced additional limitations 
on hardware (including USB sticks) to increase 
our protection of personal data and 
intellectual property.In 2020, Covid-19 and its impacts were identified 
by management as heightening some of the short-
terms risks across the business. This includes 
risks relating to reliance on key personnel, the 
increased risk of suppliers and customers’ default, 
and revenue risk, as our product requires capital 
commitments from customers when many 
businesses are calling for conservatism. However, 
in the mid-term, the possibility of a greener 
recovery strategy is very positive for ITM. Keeping our employees’ and customers’ 
personal data safe is a legal and ethical 
obligation for us. In addition, the design and 
manufacture of our electrolysers is critical 
to the success of our business, so keeping 
this intellectual property safe and secure 
is highly important.
Our Data Protection Policy sets out our 
commitments to processing all personal data 
legally and responsibly. Our website sets out our 
privacy policy for the use of third-party data and 
we inform employees and other personnel of our 
data privacy practices through our employee 
privacy notice. We inform all staff of our security 
procedures for minimising the risk of data 
breaches. Where appropriate, we conduct data 
protection impact assessments (DPIAs) to ensure 
that new and updated data processing 
procedures are conducted proportionately and 
with adequate safeguards in place.
We also have a dedicated Intellectual Property 
Management Policy to reduce the risk of 
inappropriate information-sharing of ITM Power 
trade secrets and proprietary technology. We are 
currently training staff across our business on 
this Policy.
We operate a Patent Steering Committee, 
which is responsible for the development and 
protection of ITM’s Intellectual Property Policy and Intellectual Property Portfolio. We recognise 
the importance of identifying innovation and 
capturing it in a timely fashion. 
We conduct regular PSC meetings in which 
innovation 
can be identified and captured. In order to have a 
structured approach to the ‘innovation capture’ 
process, research in key areas of the business is 
reviewed for new inventions (involving the 
research scientists, 
as appropriate) and these are evaluated in detail.
Our Social Media Policy also includes clauses on 
intellectual property, specifying that employees 
should not do anything to jeopardise our valuable 
trade secrets and other confidential information 
and intellectual property through the use of 
social media. Our CEO is ultimately responsible for ensuring 
effective communication with investors. 
Shareholder communication is coordinated by our 
Head of Investor Relations, together with Investec 
and Tavistock. 
We are committed to maintaining good dialogue 
with shareholders through proactively organising 
meetings and presentations with fund managers, 
retail brokers and analysts, as well as responding 
to a wide range of enquiries. We also recognise the 
importance of communicating appropriately any 
significant company developments.  
Beyond our shareholders, we also proactively seek 
feedback to enable us to make improvements and 
changes to our products and processes. Our newly 
formed ESG Committee is a core part of our work 
to respond to stakeholder priorities, particularly 
around sustainability.
More details on our stakeholder engagement 
approach can be found in our 2021 QCA Code 
Statement of Compliance.Engaging with and learning from employees’, 
customers’ and other stakeholders’ feedback is 
an integral part of what we do and how we are 
developing the business. Seeking to understand 
and meet shareholders’ needs and expectations, 
and taking into account wider stakeholder and 
In 2020, we strengthened our investor relations 
management through the appointment of our first 
Head of Investor Relations. We also launched a 
new website to keep shareholders up to date with 
our activity. Our joint venture with Linde GmbH, 
ITM Linde Electrolysis GmbH, also launched its 
own website in 2020.
As Covid-19 prevented us from presenting results 
to shareholders in person, we held our Annual 
General Meeting and two Extraordinary General Meetings virtually. We utilised a specialist 
shareholder platform to maximise attendance 
at the events. The AGM and the EGM were well 
attended with nearly 400 meeting attendees.
Our investor roadshows in October 2020 and 
January 2021 were also presented virtually. This 
has enabled much broader engagement. ITM POWER ESG REPORT  2020
ENGINEERED SUSTAINABLYGOVERNANCE
ISSUES
social responsibilities, are core principles within 
the Quoted Companies Alliance Corporate 
Governance Code 2018 with which ITM Power 
complies.ITM POWER ESG REPORT  2020
 
DATA SECURITYRESILIENCE AND RISK 
MANAGEMENT 
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 
Supporting 
actions and 
initiatives
(Continued)We successfully moved most of its operations to 
work on a remote basis and we have now resumed 
operations, which has mitigated this risk.
Future plans We will continue to regularly assess and publicise 
the main risks facing our business, and will take 
ongoing action to monitor and mitigate these.
Link to more 
information2020 Annual Report and Financial Statements  2020 Annual Report and Financial Statements
2021 QCA Code Statement of Compliance  2021 QCA Code Statement of Compliance  Our new ESG Committee is responsible for setting 
our ESG strategy and policy, taking into account 
stakeholder requirements and providing feedback 
from across the business to external stakeholders, 
with the aim of continually progressing towards 
our targets. In 2021, we will launch our first ‘tech talk’ 
training session, to increase employee 
awareness and confidence in dealing with data 
protection and cyber security issues online. 
The first training session will be held with 
heads of department at ITM Power, and will 
then be rolled out to the full staff team.
ENGINEERED SUSTAINABLYGOVERNANCE
ISSUES
In 2020, we conducted a light-touch materiality 
process with internal stakeholders from different 
functions across our business, in order to identify 
the ESG issues where we have the biggest 
impact. We also reviewed feedback from external 
stakeholders, including investors, to make sure our 
ESG report and strategy reflected their views, and 
conducted a peer review to identify best practice 
within comparable organisations. The results were 
used to inform the development of this report and of our ESG strategy: Sustainable Energy, 
Engineered Sustainably. Before our next ESG 
report in 2022, we will conduct a full materiality 
assessment of all our ESG impacts, consulting 
with internal and external stakeholders and 
benchmarking against comparable organisations.
We are looking at how to utilise online investor 
events, in addition to in-person events in the 
future, to enable broader investor engagement. 
We plan to review and strengthen our 
stakeholder engagement process over time, 
so that we can structure our approach to ESG 
in a way that maximises the social and 
environmental impacts of our approach.
ESG Consultants: Good Business
Design: Ginger Root 
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY, ENGINEERED SUSTAINABLY
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND 
GOVERNANCE REPORT, 2020
ITM
P
20EWO
R