GLOBAL STRENGTH:  
AT WORK IN CITIES
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 20142014 HIGHLIGHTSSUPPORTING SMALL 
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
Ranked as the U.S. Small 
Business Administration’s 
#1 lender by units to 
women- and minority-
owned businesses for the 
third consecutive year
Launched Small 
Business Forward, 
a $30 million , five-
year commitment to 
support small business 
clusters that support 
entrepreneursProvided  $19 billion  
in new credit to U.S. 
small businessesDEVELOPING LOCAL ECONOMIES AND COMMUNITIES
Provided $2.6 billion to low- and 
moderate-income communities 
through our community 
development lending  
and equity investments
Implemented the first year 
of the firm’s $250 million, 
five-year initiative  to 
strengthen local workforce 
systems globallyCommitted $100 million 
over five years  to  
accelerate Detroit’s 
economic recovery
Added eight 
new cities to the 
Brookings-JPMorgan 
Chase Global Cities 
Exchange, which helps 
cities grow trade and 
investment, for a total 
of 28 U.S. cities
HONORING U.S. MILITARY AND VETERANS
Hired more than 
8,200 veterans 
since 2011 and 
continued our 
leadership of 
the 100,000 
Jobs MissionDeployed the first $8 million 
of our $20 million, five-year 
commitment to help U.S. 
military veterans develop  
job skills, complete college 
and find stable housing 
STRENGTHENING FINANCIAL 
CAPABILITY
Launched the Financial Solutions 
Lab, a $30 million initiative  to 
identify promising innovations  
to help Americans  
increase savings,  
improve credit and  
build assets
Committed  
$35 million over 
two years to support 
and expand proven 
financial capability 
programs with 
nonprofits  
globallyPROMOTING SUSTAINABLE 
INVESTMENT
Underwrote more than  
$2.2 billion  in green bonds 
– debt issuances where 
proceeds are directed toward 
environmentally beneficial or 
climate-friendly purposes
Invested $5 million  in  
a joint investment with  
the U.K. government in  
Novastar Ventures to develop 
businesses that provide essential 
basic services in East AfricaProvided founding sponsorship 
of NatureVest , an initiative of 
The Nature Conservancy  
to attract investment  
capital to conservation INCREASING TRANSPARENCY 
WITH STAKEHOLDERS
Published “ How We Do Business 
– The Report ,” which describes 
the company’s business 
practices and standards 
and details investments 
to strengthen our control 
environment
Released an Environmental 
and Social Policy Framework , 
after extensive stakeholder 
engagement, to communicate 
our approach to these risks  
in our business$19B
$30M#1$2.6B$100M
28
$250M
8,200
$35M$30M
$5MIn Conversation with Jamie Dimon
Sarah Rosen Wartell:  A 2014 Gallup poll showed that 
Americans’ views of your industry are improving, but the 
banking industry still has significant work to do to return 
to pre-financial crisis trust levels. What is different about 
JPMorgan Chase today, compared with a few years ago?
Jamie Dimon: Our firm was a port of safety during the 
financial crisis – and we’ll be one in the next storm – but that doesn’t mean there weren’t things we needed to fix. 
We are steadfast in our commitment to learn from our 
mistakes. I know the public is angry, and I think they have 
a right to be. Therefore, we should acknowledge that and continue to work to fix the problems in the financial system. And at JPMorgan Chase, we are trying to do our 
part to do just that. 
Our firm has undertaken a massive effort to strengthen 
our control environment and continue to strengthen our corporate culture as well. Last year, we published a report called “How We Do Business – The Report” that details 
those efforts, and I’d encourage everyone to read it. 
Perhaps most important, the report talks about our people and our culture and what we’re doing to hold ourselves and each other accountable for adhering to our values and 
standards every day, in everything we do. 
This commitment to accountability and transparency isn’t 
limited to our business operations; we’re applying it to our corporate responsibility efforts as well. Sarah Rosen Wartell:  JPMorgan Chase has taken an 
unusual stand in its corporate responsibility – bringing in a partner to learn what’s working and what’s not. Why invite 
that scrutiny and be open to that level of transparency? 
Jamie Dimon: We have a number of significant 
corporate responsibility initiatives – I’d point to our work  
in Detroit and on workforce readiness as two key examples 
– but they all have the same fundamental objective: to use 
our expertise, resources and data to support economic 
growth and expand access to various opportunities in our 
communities. I believe there are no more urgent, important or morally compelling challenges facing the world today. So 
our firm is working hard to help find solutions that create 
more jobs, grow small businesses, give people the skills to compete in the workforce and, ultimately, create more widely shared prosperity. 
Over the next five years, we will deploy $1 billion toward 
these efforts, and we want to be certain these investments 
achieve meaningful impact. We want to be judged not on the commitments we make or the amount of money we give, but on our effectiveness in helping solve real 
challenges and improving people’s lives. So we are taking 
a disciplined, data-driven approach to make sure we fully understand the nature of the challenges, support the most effective solutions and work with best-in-class partners to get things done. We also expect to learn along the way.
That’s why we are looking forward to our collaboration 
with the Urban Institute. The deep expertise and insight 
your organization will bring to analyzing the impact of our efforts will strengthen our programs and, we think, provide valuable learning for others. OUR FOCUS AREAS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACHSarah Rosen Wartell:  What does JPMorgan Chase see 
as the most promising strategies for creating more broadly 
shared economic opportunity? 
Jamie Dimon: With millions of people around the world 
migrating to urban areas, strengthening local economies is essential to opening up access to opportunity, and that’s 
why we’re focused on working with local leaders to develop 
strategies that boost the economic vitality of cities. 
One specific area where our firm is placing a big bet is 
on helping cities close their skills gaps. We think this can make a real difference in expanding access to opportunity, 
shrinking the income gap a bit and giving the whole 
economy a boost. 
City leaders and employers tell us they are looking for 
better data to help them align workforce training programs with the skills and credentials employers need. So one of the things we’re doing is developing real-time, locally 
focused labor market data in cities across the United 
States and in Europe to help everyone better target efforts on sectors and occupations where jobs – particularly those that pay good wages and offer opportunities for 
advancement – are going unfilled. 
We’re also supporting youth employment programs. One 
of the biggest sins in our country is that half of inner city school kids do not graduate from high school. That’s a massive waste of potential – and virtually guarantees that those kids won’t be able to break the cycle of poverty. 
Research shows that teenagers who have summer jobs 
are more likely to stay in school and to have higher earnings into adulthood. But there’s a serious shortage of positions – particularly for kids in economically distressed 
communities, where the need is greatest – so we’re helping 
those programs expand. Sarah Rosen Wartell:  What is the private sector’s 
role in addressing big societal challenges like economic opportunity and inequality? 
Jamie Dimon: There is a moral obligation, first and 
foremost, but the private sector also has a clear vested interest in doing so. The long-term success of our firm 
– of any company – is inextricably linked to the health 
and vitality of the communities and customers we serve. Creating more jobs, strengthening the educational system, 
fixing immigration, growing middle class incomes – these 
are not only in society’s interest, they’re also in our  
firm’s interest. 
In the past, there’s been a view by many that the private 
sector’s primary contribution was financial. That’s clearly still part of the equation, but there’s a recognition today that finding transformative, lasting solutions also requires 
the expertise, tools and innovation capacity of the private 
sector. And it requires new kinds of partnerships among the public, private and nonprofit sectors. 
Clearly, our firm is just one part of the solution, but 
we’re putting our particular resources and capabilities 
to work in a number of areas. We’re developing new 
investment models that create social and environmental value alongside financial return such as the Global Health Investment Fund and NatureVest. We’re helping identify and scale innovative solutions to consumer financial 
challenges through the Financial Solutions Lab. And, in 
2015, we are launching the JPMorgan Chase Institute, which will leverage the unique assets of our firm, including our global reach, unique real-time data and intellectual 
capital, to deliver insight on economic trends around  
the world. 
Those are just a few examples – and we look forward to 
working with you and other partners to strengthen our communities and create more broadly shared prosperity. 
Jamie Dimon is Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of JPMorgan Chase. In early 2015, Jamie sat down with Sarah Rosen Wartell of the Urban Institute to discuss the firm’s approach to corporate responsibility and its focus on expanding economic opportunity.
JPMorgan Chase is partnering with the Urban Institute as part of a multi-year program that aims to inform and assess the impact 
of JPMorgan Chase’s key philanthropic initiatives.
Sarah Rosen Wartell is President of the Urban Institute. A public policy executive and housing markets expert, Ms. Wartell served 
in the White House from 1998-2001, both as deputy assistant to the president for Economic Policy and the deputy director of the National Economic Council. She also worked at the Department of Housing and Urban Development and co-founded the Center for American Progress. OUR FOCUS AREAS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACHWelcome
Read more about JPMorgan Chase at work in:This report is designed to provide our stakeholders 
with information about our company’s corporate 
responsibility programs and progress in 2014. 
A primary focus of JPMorgan Chase’s corporate 
responsibility efforts is helping cities find solutions to 
key challenges and realize their potential as engines of 
economic growth and shared prosperity. 
In this year’s report, we are featuring cities from 
around the world where we do business, describing the challenges those cities are facing, the innovative 
programs their leaders and communities are 
implementing, and how our firm is using its resources and expertise to help find solutions. 
Read more about JPMorgan Chase at work in:
29 ATHENS
08 CHICAGO
23 COLUMBUS
12 DENVER
04 DETROIT
22 HOUSTON
14 LONDON30 L OS ANGELES
17  LOUISVILLE-
LEXINGTON
29 MADRID
36 MEXIC O CITY
34 MIAMI
29 MILAN23 MUMBAI
26 NEW ORLEANS
20 NEW Y ORK CITY
12 PHOENIX
17 PORTLAND
32 SAN FRANCISC OContents
Inside Front Cover
  2014 Highlights
  In C onversation with Jamie Dimon
02 Our Appr oach to Corporate Responsibility
04 A t Work in: Detroit
Our Focus Areas
07 B UILDING COMMUNITIES
13 INCREASING E CONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS
19 INVES TING IN SKILLS
25 SUPPOR TING SMALL BUSINESSES
31 EXP ANDING GLOBAL FINANCIAL CAPABILITY
37 Oper ating Responsibly
38  In C onversation: Daniel Pinto and  
Unilever CEO Paul Polman
40 Sustainable F inance
43  Our C ustomer Commitment
44 Suppor ting Our People
46 En gaging with Our Stakeholders
47  Polic y Engagement and  
Political Participation
48 C ulture, Governance and Controls
Inside Back Cover
 About This R eport
 About JPMor gan Chase
01
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OUR FOCUS AREAS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACHOur Approach to Corporate Responsibility
JPMorgan Chase has a long-
standing commitment to 
working with and investing 
in cities. Our global business 
has given us insights into the challenges cities are facing 
and the solutions that are 
working. Every day, we apply that expertise on behalf of 
the clients and communities 
we serve.”
PETER SCHER, Head of Corporate 
ResponsibilityCITIES ARE THE ENGINES OF ECONOMIC GROWTH
By 2050, there will be 2.5 billion more people living in cities than 
there are today. 
In this increasingly urban world, cities have become the center of society’s most 
pressing economic, social and environmental challenges. They also offer the greatest potential to drive growth and opportunity, large-scale innovation and 
sustainable solutions. The future of humanity, in large part, will be a story written 
by cities.
JPMorgan Chase has a long-standing commitment to working with and investing in 
cities. Our global business has given us insights into the challenges cities are facing 
and the solutions that are working. Every day, we apply that expertise on behalf of the clients and communities we serve. We view this as central to our firm’s mission, and it has become a primary focus of our corporate responsibility efforts. 
We are focusing our efforts in the areas where city leaders have told us they most 
need help: preparing them to compete more effectively in the global economy; aligning workforce training with the skills that employers need and providing much-needed data to strengthen cities’ workforce systems; and helping create thriving 
small business sectors centered around high-growth industries. 
In Detroit, an iconic American city, we are bringing together a full range of business 
and philanthropic efforts through our most comprehensive initiative to date. In 2014, we committed $100 million over five years to accelerate and expand 
innovative efforts to revitalize the city’s economy. We are supporting entrepreneurs 
and are helping small businesses get off the ground. We are investing in community development and are creating new models to tackle blight. We are helping prepare Detroit residents to compete for middle-skill jobs. 
As in all our efforts, we know that the contribution we can make goes beyond 
money. Our people have significant expertise and capabilities to offer so we created our own Detroit Service Corps to send top JPMorgan Chase managers from around the world to Detroit to work with local nonprofits. It’s a model we intend to 
replicate and expand in the coming years.
Underpinning all of these efforts is the belief that achieving meaningful impact 
requires a commitment to measurement and accountability. To improve the effectiveness of our work, in early 2015, we announced a $10 million, five-year 
partnership with the Urban Institute – a nonprofit research organization well-
known for its policy and evaluation expertise – to inform and assess the impact of our work in Detroit and in our other major philanthropic initiatives and to produce independent research to advance solutions broadly. 
We are investing in these efforts not only because it makes good business sense – 
if the cities and communities we serve are thriving, our company will thrive – but 
also because we believe the private sector needs to do its part. Today’s global 
challenges require collaborative solutions. We are committed to doing our part by 
bringing our firm’s expertise and resources to bear to help cities around the world realize their potential as engines of growth and shared prosperity.
02
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OUR FOCUS AREAS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACHLeadership Perspectives on Cities
KASIM REED, Mayor of Atlanta
Here in Atlanta, with the busiest passenger airport in the 
world, we are connecting people, companies and products one city at a time. Going global isn’t just how we do 
business in Atlanta, it’s critical in today’s economy.
People and businesses are increasingly turning to cities for 
leadership, bold thinking, effective services and economic 
prosperity. For all cities to reach their economic potential, 
they have to be global, look outside their borders, trade their products and attract investment. 
At the end of the day, cities are where hope meets the 
streets. As mayors, we have an obligation to confront 
challenges. There is a reason that cities are incubators for the kind of innovation people look to in order to tackle serious problems. Talented people are moving into cities 
because they know that is where their work will translate 
into action.
It will be cities that will offer transformational solutions to 
the global problems of crime, inadequate education and 
income inequality. If we are able to unleash the full potential 
of cities around the world, we will see a substantial increase in the annual U.S. gross domestic product growth rate.
This city-fueled growth will help make the world a stronger, 
healthier and more prosperous place than it is today.BAN KI-MOON, United Nations Secretary-General
By the middle of this century, 70% of all people will be living in cities. Almost all urban growth will be in developing countries. The challenges are immense. But the 
opportunities are even greater. 
Cities can be the engine of social equity and economic 
opportunity. They can help us reduce our carbon footprint 
and protect the global environment. 
That is why it is so important that we work together to 
build the capacity of mayors and all those concerned in planning and running sustainable cities. 
Building sustainable cities – and a sustainable future – 
will need open dialogue among all branches of national, regional and local government. And it will need the 
engagement of all stakeholders – including the private 
sector and civil society and especially the poor and marginalized. 
All around the world, we see cities developing exciting 
new solutions. Let us learn from each other so we can 
replicate and scale up what works. Let us work together for sustainable cities and a sustainable future for all.
Remarks at “Sustainable Cities Days,” UN Headquarters, 
December 12, 2013
03
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OUR FOCUS AREAS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACHAT WORK IN:
DETROIT
Motor City’s Turnaround
Detroit is an iconic American city whose struggles have  
been well-chronicled and closely watched by metropolitan 
leaders around the world – first as a cautionary tale  
but, more and more, as a potential model for how to 
transform a city to compete in the 21st century.
Detroit’s challenges – from population loss and unemployment to blight and 
disinvestment – may be more pronounced than those of many cities, but the challenges are not unique. Cities around the world are similarly working to 
reshape their economies and revitalize their neighborhoods to compete more 
effectively and build the quality of life to which their residents aspire. A primary focus of JPMorgan Chase’s corporate responsibility efforts is working with cities to help them do so. 
INVESTED IN DETROIT
JPMorgan Chase has been doing business in Detroit for more than 80 years, and we believe in its future. Drawing on our global experience serving clients and communities, we saw an opportunity to do more to help accelerate Detroit’s 
economic recovery. 
In 2014, we pledged $100 million over five years to support, accelerate and scale 
some of the most innovative efforts underway to transform the city’s economy.
PUTTING 
$100 MILLION  
TO WORK FOR 
DETROIT$50 million investment in community 
and economic 
development 
$25 million to tackle blight$12.5 million 
to strengthen workforce readiness
$7 million to grow 
small businesses
$5.5 million to seed 
future economic growthJPMORGAN CHASE IN 
DETROIT IN 2014
Consumer customers:  
1.3 millionSmall business customers: 
91,000 
Extended $185 million  
in loans to support small  
businesses
Provided $2.3 billion in 
credit to Detroit corporations, 
local governments and nonprofits
Deployed $216 million  in equity and investments to support community 
development$185M
$216M$2.3B
04
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OUR FOCUS AREAS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACHWASTING NO TIME 
In our first year, we deployed more than $30 million 
of our investment. We also sent some of our best talent to help Detroit’s nonprofits find solutions to 
key challenges. 
Our efforts are yielding results, and our community 
development partners are injecting capital into the 
city. In late 2014, construction began on Rainer 
Court, a project financed by Capital Impact Partners that will preserve a historic building and rehabilitate 36 units of housing in Detroit’s growing Midtown district. Invest Detroit provided a loan to Global 
Titanium Inc. to expand capacity, add jobs and 
complete a manufacturing facility adjacent to the Eastside plant that has been its home since 1951.
Detroit still has many hurdles to overcome, but our 
first year of investment has reaffirmed what we already knew: Detroit and its people are dynamic, innovative and resilient. And we believe that the way in which Detroit’s leaders, business community 
and citizens have come together to spark a vibrant 
recovery may well provide a blueprint for cities around the world. JPMorgan Chase is proud to  be a part of it.DETROIT SERVICE CORPS: 
LEVERAGING THE POWER OF  
OUR EMPLOYEES
As we work to help rebuild Detroit, JPMorgan Chase 
is committing not only financial support but also the expertise of our employees. In November 2014, we 
launched the Detroit Service Corps, a five-year program 
for high-performing JPMorgan Chase managers to volunteer on-site with Detroit nonprofit partners.  
The inaugural group of 12 volunteers came from  
every corner of the globe and completed projects at  
four nonprofits, including an integrated talent 
management process for Focus: HOPE, a business  
plan for a regional wholesale produce market for 
Eastern Market, a commercial corridor marketing 
strategy for Michigan Community Resources and a property acquisition model for the Vanguard Community Development Corporation.
Detroit is tackling some very tough challenges, 
and while there’s no doubt that people around 
the world want us to succeed, JPMorgan Chase’s 
support is comprehensive. We are seeing 
investment to build new housing and expand businesses, more people graduating from the right kinds of training programs, rehab loan 
financing for people who buy homes in our 
neighborhoods and support to grow small businesses. And they are bringing more than just money – their people are working with our 
nonprofits, like Eastern Market, to help them do 
more. JPMorgan is now hitting the point where they are affecting the city in many positive, 
tangible ways. When you get to that point, you 
know you’ve got something.”
Mike Duggan, Mayor of Detroit
05
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OUR FOCUS AREAS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACHAT WORK IN: DETROIT
HOME RESTORATION PROGRAM: 
HELPING NEW HOMEOWNERS 
Addressing the blight created by vacant and abandoned 
properties across the city is critical to Detroit’s recovery. But many people who want to purchase blighted 
properties do not have access to the conventional 
financing needed to make essential improvements. 
To help fill this gap, JPMorgan Chase provided  
$5 million to cover potential loan losses and additional 
funds for down payment assistance, enabling Liberty Bank to extend affordable rehabilitation loans to qualified buyers. Through this collaboration, Liberty’s Home Restoration Program is working over the next 
five years to extend up to $20 million in loans to 
buyers who are ineligible for traditional mortgage financing. The program’s pilot phase is focused on the Boston-Edison and East English Village neighborhoods 
and, in its second phase, will be expanded into an 
additional four neighborhoods.
STRENGTHENING THE WORKFORCE: 
PREPARING WORKERS FOR JOBS IN 
GROWING INDUSTRIES
Like all cities, Detroit’s economic vitality is tied to the 
strength of its workforce. We are investing in labor market data that highlights the sectors facing the most 
acute workforce challenges and, in turn, are supporting 
training programs that help address these challenges. We supported the Detroit Regional Workforce Fund’s  
Access for All, a nine-week program that trains students 
for trade apprenticeships in the construction industry. 
With our help, Focus: HOPE expanded its machinist training program, which maintained a job placement rate above 80%, to include 237 more students. 
We also supported Detroit Employment Solution’s 
Detroit Registered Apprenticeship Program to create work-based learning opportunities in high-growth sectors such as information technology, manufacturing, 
healthcare, construction and transportation/logistics.  
As a result of this nationally recognized model, 
employers gain a trained workforce armed with industry-
recognized credentials.SMALL BUSINESS CLUSTERS: 
FOSTERING GROWTH IN KEY SECTORS
With clear evidence that small businesses grow  
faster when they share resources and infrastructure,  we are supporting small business clusters in Detroit. 
Our support for Eastern Market closed the funding  
gap on the completion of a community kitchen to  help food entrepreneurs access low-cost commercial cooking equipment. 
We also are supporting TechTown Detroit, a business 
accelerator founded to develop and grow technology businesses in Detroit. Our funding supported TechTown Detroit’s Retail Boot Camp, which prepares 
entrepreneurs to launch brick-and-mortar businesses 
and helped the organization expand its neighborhood business strategy program, SWOT City, to the University District neighborhood.
MACOMB INNOVATION FUND: 
SUPPORTING ENTREPRENEURS AND 
TEACHING ENTREPRENEURSHIP
Detroit’s vibrant, growing and entrepreneurial small 
business community is proving to be a vital part of the city’s recovery, driving economic development and 
creating jobs. To give local entrepreneurs a boost, we 
provided funding to create the Macomb Community College Innovation Fund, which will provide startups and emerging small businesses with critical early-
stage capital. Through competitive awards of loans 
and grants, the Fund is structured to be self-sustaining – and to immerse entrepreneurs in what it takes to create a financially sustainable, technology-focused business. Companies funded by the Innovation Fund 
will provide internship opportunities for Macomb 
Community College students.
JPMORGAN CHASE IN 2014:
Provided $1 million to enable Macomb Community College to create a $2.7 million Innovation Fund$1M
06
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OUR FOCUS AREAS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACHBUILDING COMMUNITIES
JPMorgan Chase’s commitment to help strengthen the 
communities we serve is an inherent part of how  
we think and operate.
We deploy investment capital, provide credit and apply our 
expertise in structuring innovative deals to help develop the core components of vibrant, livable communities: affordable housing, 
healthcare, education, job opportunities, access to healthy food 
and more. 
Our community development efforts focus on serving low- and 
moderate-income (LMI) communities across the United States, guided by the philosophy that strengthening communities 
requires sustained commitment and a comprehensive approach. 
It also requires collaboration so we build relationships with local governments, community development financial institutions (CDFI), social service providers, for-profit and nonprofit developers, and local businesses. 
JPMorgan Chase also provides financing and philanthropic  
support to CDFIs, whose deep local knowledge, relationships  
and ability to provide flexible financing are essential components 
of broad-based community development.COMMUNITY INVESTMENT – THE FACTS
18.4 million households across the United 
States pay more than 50% of their income on housing – leaving few resources to meet 
other basic needs
For every 100 extremely low-income renter 
households, there are just 31 affordable and 
available units
JPMORGAN CHASE’S SUPPORT  
FOR COMMUNITIES IN 2014:
We provided $22 billion to LMI 
individuals and communities through mortgages,  
small business lending  
and our community development work
More than 40,000 
JPMorgan Chase 
employees provided 
over 560,000 hours of volunteer service in communities around 
the world
Provided $3.3 million 
of technical assistance through Technology for Social Good, where 
employees develop 
technical solutions  for nonprofits
More than $200 million in philanthropic giving 
to nonprofits in  
44 countries560,000+$22B
$3.3M
$200M
07
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACH OUR FOCUS AREAS
INCREASING ECONOMIC 
COMPETITIVENESS SUPPORTING SMALL BUSINESSES INVESTING IN SKILLS EXPANDING GLOBAL FINANCIAL CAPABILITY BUILDING  COMMUNITIESAT WORK IN:
CHICAGO
Turning the Tide in a  
Historic Chicago Neighborhood 
Bronzeville encompasses a number of Chicago neighborhoods 
– Grand Boulevard, Oakland and the Near South Side – along 
the Cottage Grove Corridor, a commercial district that once was 
considered the epicenter of Chicago’s African-American community.
The area has intrinsic advantages: good transit hubs and proximity 
to downtown and the lakefront. In the 1950s, however, economic decline led to failed public housing projects and blight. In 2014, 
the community had an unemployment rate of 22%, and one in two 
residents had income that fell below the poverty line.
When the city of Chicago designated Bronzeville for a concerted 
redevelopment effort in 2003, the goal was to revitalize the area 
while preserving affordable housing and attracting a broader mix of residents and improving services. Block by block, that transformation took place. Public housing projects were torn down, including the Stateway Gardens and Robert Taylor Homes high-
rises, the largest, poorest concentration of public housing in the 
United States. In their place, a new mix of housing and commercial development has begun to emerge. JPMorgan Chase has been a key source of capital and expertise throughout the process, providing 
more than $240 million in the community since 2003.
One example of our support is the Oakwood Shores development 
project, where – during more than a decade of committed efforts and close collaboration with a range of community stakeholders – 
we provided $100 million in loans and equity investment. Prior to 
Oakwood Shores’ construction, virtually no investment had gone into the neighborhood for more than 50 years. Today, Oakwood Shores is a mixed-income community with market rate and 
affordable housing that is surrounded by parkways and is close to 
neighborhood community and healthcare centers. JPMORGAN CHASE IN 
CHICAGO IN 2014
Consumer customers:  
2.9 millionSmall business customers: 
211,000 
Extended more than  
1,900 new loans totaling 
$348 million  
to support small businesses 
Provided $4.4 billion in credit to corporations, 
local governments 
and nonprofits 
Deployed $124 million  in equity and investments 
to support community 
development,  including 1,200  units of affordable 
housing$348M
$124M$4.4B
08
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACH OUR FOCUS AREAS
INCREASING ECONOMIC 
COMPETITIVENESS SUPPORTING SMALL BUSINESSES INVESTING IN SKILLS EXPANDING GLOBAL FINANCIAL CAPABILITY BUILDING  COMMUNITIESRevitalizing a community is not a lonely endeavor. 
The vision comes from the people who call the 
community home, but the public and private sectors 
must work together to identify and marshal the 
necessary resources – certainly much-needed capital from financial institutions but also expertise and relationships. The combination brings immeasurable 
value to community development.”
Bernita Johnson-Gabriel, Executive Director,  
Quad Communities Development CorporationA NEW ERA IN BRONZEVILLE
2014 marked a pivotal phase in Bronzeville’s revitalization 
journey – the opening of Shops and Lofts at 47, a mixed-use commercial and mixed-income residential development. 
JPMorgan Chase, one of many stakeholders that remained 
committed to the project through the seven years it took to bring the development to fruition, played a key role structuring the complex deal and providing financing that made it possible.
Shops and Lofts brings 96 attractive new rental units to the 
neighborhood and is anchored by a Walmart Neighborhood Market, which offers healthy, affordable food to local residents. Walmart is working with 741 Collaborative – a partnership of 
local economic and workforce development nonprofits on the 
South Side of Chicago, launched with JPMorgan Chase support – to hire residents from the surrounding neighborhoods. 
Located on 47th Street – which historically was and once 
again is becoming Bronzeville’s thriving hub of economic and social activity – Shops and Lofts is a bright spot in a formerly disinvested neighborhood, a magnet for other commerce and housing, and a symbol of change for South Side residents.
More than $45 million of comprehensive financing provided by JPMorgan ChaseKey partners: The Community Builders, Inc.;  Mahogany Ventures; and Quad Communities Development CorporationSHOPS AND LOFTS AT 47
Five-story mixed-use development project
54,000 square feet of 
retail space 96 affordable and market rate 
apartment units
OPEN 
for business in 
October 2014 
09
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACH OUR FOCUS AREAS
INCREASING ECONOMIC 
COMPETITIVENESS SUPPORTING SMALL BUSINESSES INVESTING IN SKILLS EXPANDING GLOBAL FINANCIAL CAPABILITY BUILDING  COMMUNITIESCommunity Development Lending and Investing
Serve 
380,000 
patients at 
healthcare  facilitiesJPMorgan Chase takes a long-term, place-based 
approach aimed at strengthening low- and moderate-
income communities in cities across the United States. 
We analyze research into demographic and economic data for neighborhoods as small 
as a few square blocks. We listen to and build relationships with a broad range of local stakeholders, which yields an in-depth understanding of a community’s unique needs 
and enables us to identify effective community partners. And we seek to make catalytic 
investments that stir others to invest – leveraging additional capital to build affordable housing and manufacturing capacity and to attract local businesses, which help restore the pride and spirit of thriving communities.
EXPANDING THE AFFORDABLE RENTAL HOUSING POOL 
THROUGH MORTGAGE LENDING 
Another way JPMorgan Chase helps expand the availability of quality affordable 
housing in the United States is through our Commercial Term Lending business, which provides mortgages for apartment buildings with five or more units, 
many of which include affordable units (approximately 28,000 units in 2014). 
We are the largest multifamily lender in the country outside of the government, with $49 billion of apartment loans on our balance sheet. Despite our industry-leading portfolio size, our average loan size of $2 million is smaller than most in 
the industry because we offer a variety of products for small to moderate-sized 
apartment properties. 
We strive to create stable, long-term sustainable success for our clients – who include 
many intergenerational owner-investors – by applying responsible lending criteria that 
reduce vulnerability to economic downturn and by leveraging our expertise to create, 
preserve and grow our clients’ portfolios. By supporting quality affordable housing in these ways, we contribute to neighborhood stabilization and community prosperity.IN 2014, WE PROVIDED 
$1.3 BILLION 
IN COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 
LOANS AND 
$1.3 BILLION 
IN EQUITY INVESTMENTS TO:
Build and preserve
35,100 
units of affordable housing
Create nearly 
2,200 
new manufacturing and industrial jobs
Serve 
5,000 
students in low- and moderate-income communities
380,0002,20035,100
10
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACH OUR FOCUS AREAS
INCREASING ECONOMIC 
COMPETITIVENESS SUPPORTING SMALL BUSINESSES INVESTING IN SKILLS EXPANDING GLOBAL FINANCIAL CAPABILITY BUILDING  COMMUNITIESFostering Collaboration to Increase Impact
As we look at creating more economic 
growth in cities, the role of community 
development financial institutions 
becomes even more important.
CDFIs have long been essential change agents in low- and 
moderate-income communities in the United States, helping to revitalize neighborhoods and create new economic opportunities 
for individuals and families. They are important partners as we 
seek to create more growth in cities where we work.In 2014, we launched an initiative that aims to greatly expand 
the positive impacts that CDFIs already make. The goal of the 
three-year, $33 million CDFI Collaboratives initiative is to foster collaboration among CDFIs as they tackle shared challenges such as growing small businesses, creating affordable housing and improving access to fresh, healthy food. Our goal is to enable 
the Collaboratives to build capacity, leverage additional capital 
from other sources, expand into new geographies, and develop a shared infrastructure to improve quality and enhance efficiency. 
JPMorgan Chase’s initiative has brought together 26 local and 
regional CDFIs in 20 U.S. states to form seven Collaboratives, each of which is organized around a common community development challenge.
CDFI COLLABORATIVES INITIATIVE
CDFI COLLABORATIVE  LEAD AND MEMBERSBUSINESS FOCUS AREAS SERVED GRANT AWARD
Community Reinvestment Fund, USA; National Development Council; Coastal Enterprises, Inc.;  Calvert FoundationIncrease lending to small businesses in underserved and rural communities, including women- and minority-owned businessesBuffalo, Chicago, Denver, Detroit, Milwaukee,  New York City, Seattle 
$7 
million
IFF; Cincinnati Development Fund; Nonprofits Assistance FundFinance the development of community facilities providing healthcare, child care, supportive housing, affordable housing and 
grocery stores in high-need areasCincinnati, Dayton and 
Minneapolis-St. Paul 
$3 
million
Raza Development Fund; MariSol Federal Credit Union; Arizona MultiBank Community Development 
Corporation; Neighborhood Economic 
Development Corporation Develop an 85-acre area in South Phoenix to create an educational, cultural and business complex, surrounded by small businesses and 
mixed-income housing South Phoenix
$6 
million
The Reinvestment Fund; Finance 
Fund Capital Corporation; Florida Community Loan Fund; Northern 
California Community Loan Fund; 
Colorado Enterprise Fund Expand access to healthy foods in urban and rural communities and spur job creation associated with healthy food enterprisesColorado, Florida, North/Central California, Ohio
$2 
million
National Association for Latino Community Asset Builders; Affordable Homes of South Texas; 
Colorado Housing Enterprises, LLC; 
Chicanos Por La CausaPromote small business lending, job creation and affordable housing in predominantly Latino communitiesArizona, Colorado, Nevada, New Mexico, Texas
$6 
million
ROC USA Capital; Leviticus 25:23 Alternative Fund, Inc.;  Mercy Loan FundHelp families in manufactured housing communities – 75% of which are low income – purchase the land beneath their homes and 
form permanent communitiesConnecticut, Delaware, 
Idaho, New Jersey,  New York, Oregon, Utah, 
Washington, Wisconsin 
$4 
million
Community Investment Corporation ; 
Chicago Community Loan Fund; 
Neighborhood Lending Services, Inc. Finance the purchase and redevelopment of distressed one- to four-unit properties in 13 neighborhoods experiencing elevated levels 
of foreclosureChicago
$5 
million
11
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACH OUR FOCUS AREAS
INCREASING ECONOMIC 
COMPETITIVENESS SUPPORTING SMALL BUSINESSES INVESTING IN SKILLS EXPANDING GLOBAL FINANCIAL CAPABILITY BUILDING  COMMUNITIESThe U.S. economy is increasingly becoming linked to the strength and overall 
economic health of the Latino community. Investing capital in organizations 
that strengthen families in Latino and underserved communities will be  
of huge benefit not just to their long-term success but to the nation’s  
short- and long-term economic growth and stability.”
Janet Murguia, President and Chief Executive Officer, National Council of La Raza
CITY SPOTLIGHTS:
PHOENIX
PROVIDING FINANCIAL SUPPORT  
TO ADELANTE EN FAMILIA
South Phoenix is an underserved community separated from 
the rest of the city by a dry riverbed, an 80-acre gravel pit and a municipal landfill. It lacks affordable housing, access 
to healthcare and local markets. Raza Development Fund, 
the largest Latino CDFI in the country, formed the Adelante en Familia coalition with three other nonprofit lenders – the MariSol Federal Credit Union, Arizona MultiBank 
Community Development Corporation and Neighborhood 
Economic Development Corporation – to develop a plan to benefit South Phoenix communities.
The mission of Adelante en Familia is to plan, promote and 
facilitate development of sustainable communities that are 
connected to rail and transit. After intensive community outreach with local residents and leaders, the coalition created a plan to develop an 85-acre area – to be known 
as La Plaza de Las Culturas – into an educational, cultural 
and business complex, surrounded by small businesses and mixed-income housing. A branch campus of Arizona State University and a charter high school will be among the tenants. The initiative plans to develop more than  
200 units of affordable housing at or near La Plaza de  
Las Culturas. 
As part of our CDFI Collaboratives initiative, JPMorgan Chase 
is providing $6 million to Adelante en Familia to help kick-
start the development and facilitate the group’s plans to raise additional capital over the next three years.DENVER
ENABLING THE AMERICAN DREAM  
WITH A SMALL BUSINESS LOAN
Denver’s economy is growing, and unemployment has dropped below 5%. That positive news masks the fact that many small business owners – particularly those in low- 
and moderate-income communities – still face challenges 
obtaining a loan to launch or expand their companies. Through our CDFI Collaboratives initiative, we are helping  to fill this financing gap. 
In 2014, we provided $7 million to a group of CDFIs led by 
Community Reinvestment Fund, USA (CRF), a lender focused on small- and medium-enterprise development. CRF, the National Development Council, Coastal Enterprises, Inc. 
and the Calvert Foundation are using the capital infusion and 
economies of scale to make small business loans in Denver and in Buffalo, Chicago, Detroit, Milwaukee, the New York City metro area and Seattle. 
When military veteran Kevin Edgmon returned to Denver after 
Operation Desert Storm, he used his veteran benefits and waited tables part time to put himself through college. As an enthusiast and trained motorcycle mechanic, his dream was 
to open a repair business that stood for “extreme customer 
service and performance.” Kevin found a repair shop for sale but was unable to obtain a traditional small business loan until he connected with CRF, which approved a loan – made 
possible by JPMorgan Chase’s support. Today, RoadSkulls 
V-Twin Performance has good prospects for growth.
12
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACH OUR FOCUS AREAS
INCREASING ECONOMIC 
COMPETITIVENESS SUPPORTING SMALL BUSINESSES INVESTING IN SKILLS EXPANDING GLOBAL FINANCIAL CAPABILITY BUILDING  COMMUNITIESINCREASING ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS
Through our core business of providing capital and credit, 
JPMorgan Chase supports and catalyzes economic activity in metropolitan areas around the world.
We also provide our clients with critical expertise. We work with 
business and government leaders to help them become more economically competitive by increasing trade and investment ties 
and by expanding into new markets. We help our public sector and 
nonprofit clients become more innovative and effective, and we help development organizations raise capital for infrastructure to support economic growth in low-income countries.
Through the Global Cities Initiative, a joint project of the Brookings 
Institution and JPMorgan Chase, we are equipping metropolitan 
leaders and businesses with the knowledge, data, policy ideas and networks needed to make these regions more competitive in the global marketplace.ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS – THE FACTS
3X – since 1950, the share of global 
economic output from trade has tripled
The 300 largest global metropolitan areas 
contribute 48% of total global gross domestic product
5,600 – total U.S. jobs created for every  
$1 billion in exports
CAPITAL RAISED AND CREDIT 
PROVIDED BY JPMORGAN CHASE  IN 2014:
$197 billion of  
credit for consumers
$19 billion of  
credit for U.S.  small businesses
$668 billion of credit  for corporations
$1.2 trillion of 
capital raised for 
clients
$75 billion of credit and capital raised for 
nonprofit and government 
entities, including states, municipalities, hospitals and universities
TOTAL: $2.1 TRILLION$19B$197B
$668B
$1.2T
$75B
13
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACH OUR FOCUS AREAS
SUPPORTING SMALL 
BUSINESSESINVESTING IN SKILLS EXPANDING GLOBAL FINANCIAL CAPABILITY INCREASING ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS BUILDING  COMMUNITIES AT WORK IN:
LONDON
Helping London Capitalize  
on Its Export Potential 
A national debate is playing out in the United Kingdom over  
the division of roles between the national and local levels. 
Cities within the United Kingdom – and around the world – 
increasingly seek to articulate and enact their own visions of how they will compete in the global marketplace. However, they often 
lack a road map for taking on export promotion responsibilities that 
traditionally have been managed at the national level. They also lack city-specific data on their most competitive industries and how to match those sectors with high-demand markets overseas. 
Through the Global Cities Initiative (GCI), we are working to give 
metropolitan leaders the tools and data they need to help their cities compete globally (see page 16). In London, GCI is collaborating with the nonprofit research group Centre for London to help the 
city better understand and capitalize on its huge export potential. 
Although London has a long and robust history as an exporting city, globalization now requires the city to adapt to an increasingly competitive global environment. 
As one aspect of the partnership, GCI worked with the Centre for 
London on two research reports in 2014: Nations and the Wealth of Cities and Trading Places: Maximising London’s Exports Potential. The first is a road map for London and other metropolitan areas on 
how they might work with the national government to expand their 
capacity to conduct trade and attract foreign direct investment. The second report integrates – for the first time – data on the changing nature of London’s product and service exports, the barriers and 
successes reported by exporting companies, and the availability and 
usefulness of export support. 
In addition to supporting research, GCI has been working with 
London leaders to build commercial partnerships and trading 
networks. Our collaboration has helped London businesses identify 
U.S. cities involved that may be possible export markets, and we hosted London companies on trade missions to Chicago and New York that connected them with potential trade partners.JPMORGAN CHASE IN THE 
UNITED KINGDOM IN 2014
Recognized as the leading 
investment bank and corporate broker, serving 
90 of the 250 largest U.K. 
companies 
Handle more than 
$112 billion in assets for retail, corporate 
and institutional 
pension funds in the United Kingdom through J.P. Morgan 
Asset Management
Provide custodial and 
management services to more than 20 U.K. local authority pension schemes with $44 billion in assets
14
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACH OUR FOCUS AREAS
SUPPORTING SMALL 
BUSINESSESINVESTING IN SKILLS EXPANDING GLOBAL FINANCIAL CAPABILITY INCREASING ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS BUILDING  COMMUNITIES As Mayor, I have been clear that global 
engagement is incredibly important to London’s 
prosperity. Our businesses know that there are 
huge opportunities that exist in Europe, Asia and 
the U.S. The U.S. already takes 17% of our exports – the biggest single export destination for Britain. But we want to do more to convince our businesses 
that growth comes from tradable goods and 
services. We must bring our cities closer together through commerce, and that is why we are working with UK Trade & Investment and London 
& Partners to offer advice to small and medium-
sized exporters, promote trade missions around the world and attract foreign direct investment.
London has now joined the Global Cities Initiative, 
and this provides a global network of opportunity. It is very exciting.”
Boris Johnson, Mayor of LondonLONDON’S EXPORT PERFORMANCE  
– AND POTENTIAL
London doubled the value 
of its exports between 2001 and 2012 to reach 
an estimated value of £127 
billion in 2012 
More than 45% of London firms are exporters, a significantly higher proportion 
than the rest of the  
United Kingdom 
45%estimated
£127B
2001 2012
London exports more services overall than Singapore, Hong Kong or 
New York, but the U.K. 
city’s growth in service exports lags those cities 
Growth in service exports over  
the last decadeHong 
Kong300%
Singapore400%
New  
York250%
London186%
15
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACH OUR FOCUS AREAS
SUPPORTING SMALL 
BUSINESSESINVESTING IN SKILLS EXPANDING GLOBAL FINANCIAL CAPABILITY INCREASING ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS BUILDING  COMMUNITIES Investing in the Economic Future of Cities
GLOBAL CITIES EXCHANGE: 28 CITIES IN A LEARNING AND ACTION NETWORKJPMorgan Chase is committed to helping 
metropolitan area leaders understand 
how globalization and urbanization 
are shaping today’s dynamic economic landscape and to helping them grow 
their local economies through trade  
and investment.
In 2012, we launched the Global Cities Initiative, a joint project 
with the Brookings Institution that aims to equip city and metropolitan leaders with the practical knowledge, data, policy 
ideas and networks needed to help these regions become more 
connected and competitive. The five-year project combines Brookings’ deep expertise in fact-based, metropolitan-focused research with JPMorgan Chase’s market expertise and long-
standing commitment to investing in cities.GCI takes a three-pillar approach: conducting metropolitan-
focused research, convening leaders and developing global engagement strategies. Through groundbreaking research by the Brookings Institution, GCI is providing cities with data on 
their global profiles: what they export, where exports go and 
who invests locally. Through convenings, the second pillar of GCI, we bring together public and private leaders to reflect on this research, develop implementation strategies and share best practices on how to strengthen their global position. Since 2012, 
we have brought GCI to more than 30 cities, and GCI has released 
over 20 innovative reports on global trade and investment.
The third pillar is the Global Cities Exchange, a four-year  
learning and action network that is helping U.S. and international 
metropolitan areas implement strategies to grow exports, foreign direct investment (FDI) and global competitiveness. At the end of 2014, one year after its launch, 20 U.S. regions were developing and/or implementing new export strategies, including six regions 
that were integrating FDI strategies, and eight new regions had 
joined the network to work on export strategies, bringing the total to 28.
Baltimore
Fresno
Houston
Kansas City
Philadelphia
Salt Lake County
Seattle
St. LouisCharleston
Chicago
Des Moines
Los Angeles
Louisville-Lexington
Syracuse
TampaLaunching 12-month 
export planning programCompleted export 
market assessmentLaunching integrated FDI 
and export strategyImplementing export 
strategy
Atlanta
Indianapolis
Jacksonville
Milwaukee
Phoenix
Upstate South CarolinaColumbus
Minneapolis-St. Paul
Portland
San Antonio
San Diego
Seattle
16
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACH OUR FOCUS AREAS
SUPPORTING SMALL 
BUSINESSESINVESTING IN SKILLS EXPANDING GLOBAL FINANCIAL CAPABILITY INCREASING ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS BUILDING  COMMUNITIES CITY SPOTLIGHTS:
LOUISVILLE-LEXINGTON
BUILDING AND SUSTAINING  
A COMPETITIVE REGION
In a changing global economy, traditional trade barriers and 
local rivalries are rapidly being replaced by business clusters and regional hubs, which support greater collaboration, 
innovation and efficiency. Recognizing this trend, the mayors 
of Louisville and Lexington, Kentucky – metropolitan areas that had long been rivals – launched the Bluegrass Economic Advancement Movement (BEAM) initiative in 2011. BEAM 
brings together the 22 counties that include and surround 
Louisville and Lexington, with the aim of turning the two cities and region into a globally competitive export-manufacturing hub. 
In December 2013, JPMorgan Chase provided $200,000 
to create the BEAM Kentucky Export Promotion Program, which offers competitive grants of up to $4,500 to help small businesses in the region develop export infrastructure, 
identify new sales opportunities, and participate in trade 
shows and trade missions. One participant, Louisville-based NaugaNeedles, LLC – whose silver-gallium nano-needles are used in sensory and imaging devices – used its grant to participate in a regional trade show, where the CEO secured 
new distributors and international clients. 
In June 2014, the Global Cities Initiative also hosted regional 
leaders from diverse industry sectors in a discussion of 
new workforce and innovation development strategies. The 
Louisville-Lexington hub is one of 28 metropolitan areas participating in the Global Cities Exchange.PORTLAND
MARKET INSIGHT DRIVES THE “WE BUILD 
GREEN CITIES” EXPORT STRATEGY
Portland, Oregon, was known as an established export market 
when it began developing the first phase of its regional export plan in 2011. How it developed that plan sheds light on the 
way global markets are changing and on what it takes for 
cities to become competitive within those markets. 
Portland worked with the Brookings Institution to better 
understand the companies in its own region and its 
interconnections with other national and international regions. Local leaders initially assumed their competitive strategy would focus on the region’s dominant industries: computer technology and athletic outdoor wear. Instead, the 
market assessment identified a strong green-economy sector 
that encompassed advanced manufacturing, architectural design and environmental sustainability services. 
Using these data, Portland developed “We Build Green 
Cities,” a strategy that leverages the expertise and collaboration of companies in its green sector to target growing markets in Asia. Since then, Portland companies have signed agreements to sell goods and services to 
Japanese firms rebuilding cities affected by the tsunami.
JPMorgan Chase is supporting Portland’s efforts to 
implement its economic development plan with a $50,000 
commitment to Greater Portland Inc, a regional nonprofit 
partnership that is using the funding to help execute the export plan’s goal of doubling regional exports by 2017.
Today, cities and metropolitan centers are driving the 
global economy. Cities are experiencing unprecedented 
economic growth and prosperity by taking control of their 
own economies through civic leadership, innovation and 
partnership. Recognizing that cities are growth centers, JPMorgan Chase has partnered with the Brookings Institution to help cities expand their global footprint.” 
Phyllis Campbell, Vice Chair of the Global Cities Initiative, 
JPMorgan Chase 
17
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACH OUR FOCUS AREAS
SUPPORTING SMALL 
BUSINESSESINVESTING IN SKILLS EXPANDING GLOBAL FINANCIAL CAPABILITY INCREASING ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS BUILDING  COMMUNITIES Financing the Public Sector
26 sovereign 
wealth fundsJPMORGAN CHASE IN 2014:
Worked with more than 550 public  entities in over 100 countries
We recognize that properly functioning and financed public institutions 
are essential for economic growth. We are one of the few global firms that maintains a public sector client group of this scale to provide specialized 
expertise to these entities.
The world’s governments – ranging from small municipalities to the largest 
countries – place confidence in us to raise capital, manage and safeguard 
financial assets and liabilities, hedge financial risks, and capture efficiencies 
in making payments and collecting revenue. We also serve central banks, sovereign investors, multilateral institutions, public pension funds, national development banks, hospitals, universities and other public institutions. 
In the United States, state and local governments rely on our expertise on issues 
ranging from planning and development to tax processing, utilities, finance, procurement, public safety and disaster relief. Every day around the world, we work with public sector entities to help them fulfill vital public mandates. 
We also work to support clients and governments in challenging 
circumstances, deploying our scale and expertise to develop tailored solutions while effectively managing risk. For example, in 2014, we worked with the Ukraine finance ministry to raise a five-year, $1 billion bond with a 
guarantee from the U.S. Agency for International Development to reinforce 
the country’s economic reforms, as supported by the International Monetary Fund and other members of the international community. 
In addition, as part of a concerted effort to help Puerto Rico during its 
economic and financial challenges, we structured $900 million in short-term financing among a syndicate of banks to provide essential funding for the government to meet its ongoing cash flow obligations. When Good Shepherd Medical Center in Longview, Texas, implemented a strategic restructuring 
plan, we continued to finance the hospital network, structuring an $88 
million tax-exempt bond that provided a comprehensive solution to the organization’s liquidity needs and giving it the flexibility to complete its turnaround and improve its credit ratings.PUBLIC SECTOR CLIENTS
More than 1,000  U.S. states, municipalities,  hospitals, school districts and 
governmental authorities
More than 130 banks 
and agencies that 
finance public policy in 
almost 50 countries
123 central banks worldwide
More than 80 national governments on six continents
80 public pension funds
60 multilateral 
institutions on five 
continents
COLLABORATING TO FUND ESSENTIAL INFRASTRUCTURE IN SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
Financing infrastructure development in sub-Saharan Africa – telecommunications, power, natural resources and transportation – is essential to economic growth, political stability and quality of life. But local capital markets sometimes lack the funding capacity and expertise required by long-term infrastructure development. In October 2014, J.P. Morgan and the U.S. Overseas Private Investment 
Corporation (OPIC) concluded a landmark co-financing structure to help fill this need.
We provided $25 million of a $100 million loan to the Africa Finance Corporation (AFC), a regional development bank 
headquartered in Lagos, Nigeria. AFC provides project finance, technical advisory and infrastructure development support to 
projects in select markets, such as Nigeria’s “Roadmap for Power Sector Reform,” which aims to increase power generation tenfold 
by 2020 to meet growing demand in the continent’s most populous country. The OPIC–J.P. Morgan partnership was critical to making this deal possible: As a quasi-governmental entity, OPIC cannot mobilize funding without a U.S. nexus. For its part,  J.P. Morgan could not have provided long-term funding on economic terms without OPIC’s participation. 55
301
€$£¥
18
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACH OUR FOCUS AREAS
SUPPORTING SMALL 
BUSINESSESINVESTING IN SKILLS EXPANDING GLOBAL FINANCIAL CAPABILITY INCREASING ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS BUILDING  COMMUNITIES INVESTING IN SKILLS
JPMorgan Chase believes that helping people gain the skills 
they need to compete in the labor market is a powerful strategy for expanding access to opportunity and promoting 
economic growth. 
Communities around the world are working to rebuild their 
economies, yet millions of people still are unable to find jobs that offer the prospect of economic mobility. At the same time, 
many employers are looking to fill vacancies, especially for 
technical and skilled positions. Mayors across the globe identify this skills gap as one of their biggest challenges. To help address this challenge, we launched New Skills at Work, one of our most ambitious projects ever.
We also continued our efforts to help American military veterans 
translate their skills to the civilian workforce and gain access to employment opportunities. Veterans represent an enormous pool of talent, whose experience and abilities bring value to businesses and strengthen the economy. WORKFORCE READINESS – THE FACTS
By 2020, 65% of jobs will require some 
education or training beyond high school, up from 56% in 1992
Across Europe, more than 10% of the labor 
force is unemployed – and the rate is nearly twice as high for people under age 25
About 21,000 service members will 
transition out of the U.S. military each 
month over the next few years and seek to enter the workforce
JPMORGAN CHASE IN 2014:
Deployed the first $50 
million of our five-year, 
$250 million New Skills 
at Work initiative
Committed $5 million to support 
summer youth employment initiatives 
in 2014 and 2015 for underserved youth across the United States
Hired more than 1,800 veterans, bringing our total to more than 8,200 since 2011
Invested $1 million to fund higher education programs for veterans$50M
$1M$5M
19
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACH OUR FOCUS AREAS
INVESTING IN 
SKILLSINCREASING ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS SUPPORTING SMALL BUSINESSES EXPANDING GLOBAL FINANCIAL CAPABILITY BUILDING  COMMUNITIES AT WORK IN:
NEW YORK CITY
Preparing New Yorkers for  
Good Jobs in Growing Industries 
In New York City in 2014, there were about 1 million high-
quality, middle-skill jobs – those requiring a high school diploma 
and some postsecondary training but not a four-year degree. 
These jobs pay a median hourly wage of $31.88 – and yet nearly 
45,000 of them went unfilled, in part because an estimated 46%  
of New Yorkers aged 25 and older lacked the credentials employers 
were seeking.
These insights came from a JPMorgan Chase research project as part 
of our New Skills at Work initiative (see page 22 ). The research uses 
real-time, locally focused labor market data to identify the industries in which employers are having trouble finding applicants with the right skills, and job seekers are struggling to gain access to the training that can prepare them for these positions. 
Healthcare and technology are two of New York City’s fastest-growing 
business sectors, and they account for 45% of the city’s middle-skill job openings – from registered nurses and physical therapy assistants to help desk staff and graphic designers. Both sectors are projected to 
grow roughly 15% over the next five years so demand for these skill 
sets will continue to expand, creating excellent opportunities for New Yorkers to earn good wages and step onto a long-term career path. But New Yorkers need the right skills and training to do so. 
We are making the data gathered from New Skills at Work available to 
support efforts begun by Mayor de Blasio’s Jobs for New Yorkers Task 
Force and to help education and training organizations better align their programs with employer demand. This means that job seekers 
can have confidence that they are acquiring the right skills to land 
high-quality jobs, and employers can count on a robust talent pipeline to support their growth and competitiveness.
For the full findings of JPMorgan Chase’s New York City Skills Gap 
report, see www.jpmorganchase.com/NYSkillsGapReport .JPMORGAN CHASE IN  
NEW YORK CITY IN 2014
Location of our corporate 
headquarters
Consumer customers:  
5.4 millionSmall business customers: 457,000
Extended 4,100 
new loans totaling 
$926 million  
to support small businesses
Provided $9.3 billion in credit to 
corporations, local 
governments and 
nonprofits 
Deployed $537 million  
in equity and investments 
to support community development, including 5,100 units of 
affordable housing$926M
$537M$9.3B
20
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACH OUR FOCUS AREAS
INVESTING IN 
SKILLSINCREASING ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS SUPPORTING SMALL BUSINESSES EXPANDING GLOBAL FINANCIAL CAPABILITY BUILDING  COMMUNITIES TRAINING HEALTHCARE WORKERS 
IN THE SOUTH BRONX
JPMorgan Chase is using real-time labor 
market data to inform our funding for training organizations on the ground. For example, in 2014, 
we provided $1 million to support the creation 
of Career Network: Healthcare, a collaboration 
established by Phipps Neighborhoods, a social service organization in the South Bronx, with 
Montefiore Health System and Hostos  
Community College. 
With a nearly 10% unemployment rate, the  
Bronx has the highest unemployment rate in  
New York City – and it is significantly higher than 
the national average. Career Network: Healthcare is helping young adults in the South Bronx acquire the skills and education credentials needed 
to secure a job in the expanding healthcare 
sector. It also is a prime example of what can be accomplished when community-based organizations, educational institutions and employers partner to identify skill needs and 
tailor training programs to meet these gaps. 
Among the first three cohorts who graduated from 
Career Network: Healthcare’s 11-week training 
program, one-third obtained a job, and almost 
35% more enrolled in a Hostos training program to gain additional credentials. Behind these statistics, lives have been transformed: One 24-year-old graduate, for example, was hired by Montefiore as 
a dietary worker at double the New York minimum 
wage – after having been on public assistance the previous year – and plans to return to school to pursue a nursing degree.
The Career Network: Healthcare program with 
Phipps Neighborhoods and Hostos Community 
College is proof that employers, educators 
and community-based providers, working 
together, can create a workforce pipeline to lift up the lives of young people and help them reach their full potential.”
Steven M. Safyer, M.D., President and CEO of 
Montefiore Medical Center
21
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACH OUR FOCUS AREAS
INVESTING IN 
SKILLSINCREASING ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS SUPPORTING SMALL BUSINESSES EXPANDING GLOBAL FINANCIAL CAPABILITY BUILDING  COMMUNITIES Reshaping  
the Workforce 
Development System
While unemployment rates have fallen 
in many cities and countries around the 
world, in some communities and among 
certain groups, unemployment remains stubbornly high. 
Among those who are employed, many work fewer hours than 
they would like or have jobs that do not pay a sustainable wage or offer career mobility.
While there is no single solution to this challenge, there is a 
high-impact place to start: by addressing the paradox that while many people are looking for work, millions of good jobs remain 
unfilled because employers cannot find workers with the right 
skills. These are middle-skill jobs that pay wages that make families financially self-sufficient and are the entry point for long-term careers in growing sectors. These also are the jobs  that employers need to fill to maintain productivity and grow 
their businesses.
CLOSING THE GAP WITH NEW SKILLS AT WORK
In late 2013, JPMorgan Chase launched New Skills at Work,  
an ambitious five-year, $250 million initiative aimed at helping 
strengthen workforce development systems across the globe  
to become more demand-driven – that is, helping them to focus the training they provide on the skill sets and credentials that employers need. In doing so, we believe we can make a real contribution to expanding access to opportunity for millions –  
while also strengthening businesses and giving economies a boost. 
In the first full year of the program, we deployed $50 million 
to nonprofits in more than 130 cities and countries around the world. We also applied our expertise on the economy and labor 
market intelligence, the unique insights we gained as an advisor 
to companies and industries around the world, and our ability to bring together leaders from the public and private sectors to forge solutions (see our New Skills at Work Annual Report at  
www.jpmorganchase.com/NSAW2014AnnualReport). CITY SPOTLIGHT:
HOUSTON
ALIGNING TRAINING PROGRAMS WITH 
EMPLOYER NEEDS
While the rapid growth in the energy sector slowed toward 
the end of 2014, the value to Houston of real-time labor market data – and the importance of close collaboration 
between training organizations, educational institutions  
and employers – remains as important as ever.
Data from JPMorgan Chase’s Houston Skills Gap report 
showed that middle-skill occupations make up the largest 
sector of the Houston economy (41%) but that many middle-skill jobs were going unfilled for a lack of qualified workers. Meanwhile, more than one in five Houstonians  age 25 years and older – 855,000 people – lack a high 
school credential and are struggling to find work.  
For the full findings of our Houston Skills Gap report,  see www.jpmorganchase.com/HoustonSkillsGapReport .
To address this challenge, in 2014, the Greater Houston Partnership launched UpSkill Houston, an industry-led initiative to provide a platform for the business community, educational institutions and social service organizations to develop a workforce that meets employers’ needs and helps 
ensure that Houstonians have the skills and opportunities 
to build a successful career. A major element of UpSkill Houston is improved data sharing between employers and educational institutions to match hiring needs with curricula 
– and the data provided by JPMorgan Chase are essential to 
driving that alignment and coordination. 
As part of New Skills at Work, JPMorgan Chase has 
committed $5 million over five years to support workforce 
development efforts in Houston.
22
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACH OUR FOCUS AREAS
INVESTING IN 
SKILLSINCREASING ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS SUPPORTING SMALL BUSINESSES EXPANDING GLOBAL FINANCIAL CAPABILITY BUILDING  COMMUNITIES CITY SPOTLIGHTS:
MUMBAI
INCREASING THE EMPLOYABILITY OF 
UNIVERSITY GRADUATES
Industry surveys show that only a small fraction of 
graduates from India’s higher education system is considered employable due to a lack of relevant skills. To 
help address this challenge, the Tata Institute of Social 
Sciences launched the National University Students’ Skills Development pilot program in 2013. The goal is to increase student employability by adding a skills-based component 
to curriculums and by providing practical work experience. 
The program also aims to foster civic responsibility and engage students in finding solutions to some of India’s most pressing social challenges. The program is being tested in 11 universities across nine states. 
In 2014, JPMorgan Chase committed nearly $500,000 to help 
fund the expansion of the pilot in Mumbai from two to five colleges that cater to predominantly underprivileged students.COLUMBUS
CREATING NEW CAREER PATHWAYS 
The Columbus, Ohio, economy is expanding rapidly,  and overall unemployment is low. However, there are  still more than 42,000 unemployed adults, many of  
whom don’t have the right skills for available positions.  
Data from JPMorgan Chase’s Columbus Skills Gap report reveal that only one-third of those unemployed have a secondary degree, which is required by two-thirds of  
current and projected job openings. In addition, the area 
lacks the right mix of credentialed, postsecondary training programs in skill sets that are sought after by employers.  For the full findings of our Columbus Skills Gap report,  see www.jpmorganchase.com/ColumbusSkillsGapReport .
In 2014, JPMorgan Chase made a five-year, $2.5 million commitment to Columbus State Community College in support of the Central Ohio Compact, a regional 
collaborative of school districts, higher education 
institutions, businesses and civic partners working to develop new, high-demand industrial skill credentials.
ENABLING DATA-DRIVEN SOLUTIONS
Our strategy starts with the recognition that having good data in hand is the critical first step toward developing effective, locally tailored solutions that align education and training programs 
with employer needs. 
In 2014, we issued Skills Gap reports in New York City (see  
page 20) and Houston and released labor market studies in England, France and Spain. In 2015, we will release Skills Gap 
reports in seven other U.S. cities. These Skills Gap reports provide 
insight into the dynamics of individual local labor markets and 
offer recommendations for how to move toward a more demand-
driven workforce system in those locations. We also are using the 
data to identify and inform our support for leading community 
colleges and training organizations.SUPPORTING PROGRAMS FOR YOUTH
In 2014, JPMorgan Chase announced a commitment of $5 million over two years to help underserved youth across the United States obtain the skills necessary to build lasting careers. This commitment, 
combined with other local support, created almost 50,000 summer 
jobs for teens and learning opportunities for more than 54,000 young people in 14 cities. We released a report highlighting best practices from our network of nonprofit partners and identifying 
opportunities to advance summer youth employment programs.
An additional program, JPMorgan Chase’s The Fellowship Initiative, 
is an intensive academic and leadership training program aimed at helping young men of color gain access to the knowledge, skills and 
experience they need to complete their high school education; excel 
in high-quality, four-year colleges and universities; and, ultimately, compete in the global economy. Launched in 2010 in New York City with a group of 24 Fellows, in 2014, JPMorgan Chase expanded the 
program to Chicago and Los Angeles and increased the number of 
Fellows in each city to 40. 
We also worked with the U.K.-based Social Mobility Foundation 
to create a year-long program that pairs youth from low-income 
communities with J.P. Morgan employee mentors. Additionally,  
we studied the academic performance of program participants  
to identify successful elements of the program that can be  
replicated elsewhere. 
23
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACH OUR FOCUS AREAS
INVESTING IN 
SKILLSINCREASING ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS SUPPORTING SMALL BUSINESSES EXPANDING GLOBAL FINANCIAL CAPABILITY BUILDING  COMMUNITIES Military and Veterans
More than 2.8 million veterans  
have served in the U.S. military  
in the last decade. 
Veterans’ training and experiences have given them strong and 
unique qualifications. However, many veterans face challenges finding the right job and matching their skills to the right employer 
and industry. Despite their world-class training, U.S. veterans  
are unemployed at the same or higher levels than the  
general population. 
We believe that we have an obligation to provide the men and 
women who have served their country with the opportunity to join the workforce when they leave military service. It’s the right thing to do, and effectively deploying the skills of this talent pool will strengthen our economy. At JPMorgan Chase, we are 
committed to helping position service members, veterans and 
their families for long-term, post-military success. 
In 2014, we launched the Career Transition Workshop, where 
JPMorgan Chase employees train job-seeking veterans in resume 
building, networking, interviewing and skills marketing to help transitioning veterans prepare for a successful post-military job search that leads to a meaningful career.100,000 JOBS MISSION
In 2011, JPMorgan Chase and 10 other companies launched the 100,000 Jobs Mission, setting a goal of collectively hiring 100,000 veterans by 2020. The initiative gained so much early 
momentum that, in 2013, it doubled its hiring goal to 200,000. 
By the end of 2014, the effort had surpassed that expanded goal, having hired more than 217,000 veterans. The Mission has raised the bar again, committing to hire another 100,000 veterans for a 
total of 300,000 hires.
From 2011 through March 2015, JPMorgan Chase hired nearly 
8,700 veterans, supported by a specialized military and veterans 
recruiting team that helps military job seekers overcome 
the obstacles they face translating their military skills into a 
corporate workplace. 
We continued to share our experience and expertise with other 
companies to help them catalyze action and develop successful 
veteran employment programs. In 2014, we supported research conducted by RAND Corporation to capture the lessons and experiences from 100,000 Jobs Mission companies on integrating veterans into the private sector workforce. In partnership with other 100,000 Jobs Mission member companies and Syracuse University’s Institute for Veterans and Military Families , we also 
published leading practices guides designed to help companies build or enhance veteran employment programs.
2014 RECOGNITION 
VET Award (Families and  
Work Institute)
Military Times  EDGE Best for 
Vets Employer ( Military  
Times EDGE)Most Valuable Employer for 
Military (CivilianJobs.com)
25 Most Influential  
Employers for Veteran  Hiring  
(Diversity Journal)Best of the Best Veteran 
Friendly  Companies   
(U.S. Veterans Magazine)
 
KEY MILESTONES       The firm’s military veterans programs and initiatives are focused on employment, education and housing.
2011 2012 2013 2014
Launched the firm’s 
Military and Veterans 
Initiative
Co-founded 100,000 
Jobs Mission with  
10 companiesTeamed up with Tim 
McGraw and Operation 
Homefront to provide 
mortgage-free homesLaunched Military Survivor Program
Launched Pathfinder  
mentoring program and Career 
Transition WorkshopLaunched 
Military Spouse 
Initiative
100,000 Jobs Mission surpassed 100,000 hires; doubled 
commitment to 200,000Awarded 750+ homes 
to veterans through our nonprofit partners100,000 Jobs Mission 
exceeded 217,000 hires and 
grew to include 183 companiesmore than 8,200 
veterans hired internally3,000 veterans hired internally 5,000 veterans hired internally 6,300 veterans hired internally
Developed Military 
101 and Body Armor 
to Business Suits 
to bridge the gap between military and 
corporate culturesFounded Institute  
for Veterans and  Military Families with  
Syracuse UniversityCommissioned RAND Corporation report on best practices for 
hiring/retaining veterans
24
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACH OUR FOCUS AREAS
INVESTING IN 
SKILLSINCREASING ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS SUPPORTING SMALL BUSINESSES EXPANDING GLOBAL FINANCIAL CAPABILITY BUILDING  COMMUNITIES SUPPORTING SMALL BUSINESSES
Small businesses and entrepreneurs are vital to prosperous, 
thriving cities. 
They spot new market opportunities, generate innovative  
products and services, and help create diverse communities.  They also generate jobs, effectively demonstrating that  
when small businesses thrive, so do communities and the  
nation’s economy.
JPMorgan Chase is proud to be a leader in providing  
the capital, resources and business know-how that small  businesses across the United States need to grow and prosper.  
But that is not all we do to help small businesses. In addition  to our business banking services, we fund innovative approaches and organizations that help small businesses be more successful. In 2014, we launched Small Business Forward, a $30 million, five-year initiative to support the 
nonprofits that help grow clusters of small businesses.SMALL BUSINESSES – THE FACTS
Small businesses employ nearly 50% of 
U.S. private sector workers and have created 63% of net private sector jobs in the United 
States since 1993
Small businesses grow three times more 
quickly and have higher retention rates 
when located in effective, sector-focused 
business clusters
The 2.5 million veteran-owned businesses in 
the United States had sales of $1.2 trillion 
and employed 5.8 million people in 2012
JPMORGAN CHASE IN 2014:
Served the needs of  
3.9 million of the 28 million U.S. small businesses
Made $19 billion in new loans to American 
small businesses
Was #1 Small Business 
Administration (SBA) lender to women- and minority-owned small 
businesses by number  
of loans
Launched Small Business 
Forward, a $30 million,  
five-year initiative to support small business clusters$19B3.9M
$30M
25
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACH OUR FOCUS AREAS
INCREASING ECONOMIC 
COMPETITIVENESS EXPANDING GLOBAL FINANCIAL CAPABILITY BUILDING  COMMUNITIES SUPPORTING SMALL BUSINESSES INVESTING IN  SKILLSAT WORK IN:
NEW ORLEANS
Fast Forwarding Small  
Businesses in New Orleans
Greater New Orleans is in the midst of a renaissance.
In the years following Hurricane Katrina, the people of New 
Orleans led their community in a remarkable recovery, joining with businesses, foundations and government to create jobs and 
transform neighborhoods across the city. As the country’s economic 
recovery gathers momentum, New Orleans’ economy is poised to grow even faster thanks to the city’s focus on supporting business clusters to drive economic development. These are concentrations of 
related businesses that share networks, resources and ideas. 
Entrepreneurs operating within clusters are better able to access 
capital, training, skilled workers, supply chains and new markets for their products – and research suggests their businesses enjoy faster 
growth than their overall regional area economies. To accelerate 
this potential, in 2014, JPMorgan Chase launched Small Business Forward, a new initiative to seed and support small business clusters in cities around the world (see page 28). 
One of our first seed markets was New Orleans, where we provided 
$200,000 to the New Orleans BioInnovation Center, a nonprofit 
biotechnology incubator and cluster that serves fast-growing, small life sciences companies. Located in the New Orleans biocorridor, 
in close proximity to the Tulane Health Sciences Center, a new 
Veterans Affairs hospital and the Louisiana State University teaching hospital, the BioInnovation Center offers its tenants access to commercialization assistance, funding and workforce development 
support, as well as introductions to potential collaborators, 
investors and specialized service providers. The Center also aims to train the next generation by providing graduate students and recent graduates with internships to work with the life sciences companies in the cluster.
 
The Center has provided business assistance to 145 startup companies and researchers, which, collectively, have raised more than $80 million in capital and created nearly 300 jobs. With 
the health sector already one of New Orleans’ fastest-growing 
industries, the BioInnovation Center has established itself as the anchor of a highly competitive regional health cluster that will strengthen communities and create high-quality, varying-skill  level jobs.JPMORGAN CHASE IN 
LOUISIANA IN 2014
Consumer customers:  
1.1 millionSmall business customers: 
79,000
Extended nearly  
850 loans totaling  $253 million to  
small businesses 
#1 SBA lender by number  
of loans statewide for third  consecutive year
Provided $1.6 billion in credit to 
corporations, local governments and nonprofits 
Deployed $384 million  in equity and investments since 2005 to support community 
development, 
including more than 5,200 units of affordable housing$253M
$1.6B
$384M
26
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACH OUR FOCUS AREAS
INCREASING ECONOMIC 
COMPETITIVENESS EXPANDING GLOBAL FINANCIAL CAPABILITY BUILDING  COMMUNITIES SUPPORTING SMALL BUSINESSES INVESTING IN  SKILLSBIOTECH FIRM’S CHOCOLATE 
TOOTHPASTE REVOLUTIONIZES 
ORAL CARE 
A New Orleans BioInnovation Center tenant since 
2011, Theodent is a biotech company that makes an innovative line of toothpaste. It was the first 
commercial product launched from the cluster 
and has received some of the most buzz of any company there to date. Based on a patented technology called Rennou™, Theodent toothpaste 
strengthens teeth using a proprietary blend of a 
naturally occurring extract found in chocolate and minerals that hardens and rebuilds the enamel surface of human teeth. The company provides the only nontoxic alternative to fluoride on the market. 
Theodent has won the internationally acclaimed 
Red Dot Award: Product Design, is carried by  
select Whole Foods Market locations nationwide, and has been featured in Cosmopolitan,  Details, 
Forbes,  Inc. magazine,  Marie Claire,  Men’s Health, 
Time,  W magazine and others. 
As a BioInnovation Center tenant, the company has been able to take advantage of the affordable, 
flexible workspace, shared labs, conference 
services and business expertise provided by the biotechnology incubator – along with a climate of innovation that fuels entrepreneurship. The results 
show in its sales, which doubled in 2013 and  
tripled in 2014. 
The recovery underway in New Orleans has 
created a favorable business environment that 
is vital to our efforts to build a new economy. 
We have experienced the impact that targeted 
support and investment have in establishing a new economy based on knowledge, technology and innovation. We’ve also seen the critical role 
that small businesses play in facilitating growth 
and creating opportunities. By providing focused support for bioscience startups, the New Orleans BioInnovation Center is helping 
accelerate our city’s recovery.”
Mitch Landrieu, Mayor of New Orleans
27
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACH OUR FOCUS AREAS
INCREASING ECONOMIC 
COMPETITIVENESS EXPANDING GLOBAL FINANCIAL CAPABILITY BUILDING  COMMUNITIES SUPPORTING SMALL BUSINESSES INVESTING IN  SKILLSSmall Business Forward
SMALL BUSINESS FORWARD GRANTEESWe know that small businesses are the 
most important source of new jobs in the 
United States and are critically important 
to economic growth around the world. 
We also know that many small business owners lack access to the 
resources needed to catalyze and sustain growth. According to the U.S. SBA, 50% of U.S. small businesses fail within five years. 
JPMorgan Chase actively engages our small business customers 
to provide them with the capital and other resources needed to improve these odds. We also support innovative approaches 
that improve survival rates for small businesses and help them 
overcome the structural barriers to becoming larger companies. 
Cluster-driven economic development is an innovative 
strategy that creates jobs and helps our nation’s economy grow. Clusters convene corporations, small businesses, universities, investors, regional economic organizations 
and other partners to achieve synergies and productivity 
levels that a single small business, acting alone, cannot. Entrepreneurs participating in SBA clusters create jobs and grow their payroll four times faster than their local 
industry peers. I applaud JPMorgan Chase’s philanthropic 
commitment to regional clusters through the Small Business Forward initiative. Their leadership is helping to put Americans to work right now in some of our most promising industries, setting the table for U.S. economic innovation and 
growth for a generation.”
Maria Contreras-Sweet, Administrator, U.S. Small 
Business Administration
FOOD
Value-added production 
and distribution of food and beverages:
Eastern Market (Detroit)ENERGY
Production, technology and logistics:
Houston Technology Center (Houston)MANUFACTURING
3D printing and prototyping:
University of Missouri-Kansas City Free Enterprise Center (Kansas City)COMMUNICATIONS
Software and devices that support media, broadcasting, publishing and computer networking:HEALTH
Development of medical drugs and devices, supportive information technology systems and effective supply chains:INTERACTIVE MEDIA  
AND ECOMMERCE
Interactive media and  gaming as well as Internet-based retail and marketing:Technology for renewable energy, recycling and affiliated service providers:
The Water 
Council (Milwaukee)Grand Central Tech (New York)Rev1 Ventures 
(Columbus)
Washington 
Interactive Network (Seattle)BioSTL  
(St. Louis)
New Orleans 
BioInnovation 
Center (New 
Orleans)
QB3 at 
University of 
California- 
San Francisco 
(San Francisco)
New Jersey 
Innovation 
Institute 
(Newark)Los Angeles Cleantech Incubator (Los Angeles)CLEAN TECHNOLOGY
28
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACH OUR FOCUS AREAS
INCREASING ECONOMIC 
COMPETITIVENESS EXPANDING GLOBAL FINANCIAL CAPABILITY BUILDING  COMMUNITIES SUPPORTING SMALL BUSINESSES INVESTING IN  SKILLSTHE POWER OF CLUSTERS
Small business clusters are an innovative approach to economic 
development that’s rapidly gaining momentum. Entrepreneurs in sector-specific clusters share ideas and networks, create 
partnerships, enjoy improved access to capital and integrate 
more easily into industry supply chains. 
With the support of JPMorgan Chase, the Initiative for a 
Competitive Inner City recently analyzed clusters’ contributions 
to economic growth in the 10 largest cities in the United States 
from 2003 to 2011. The results were impressive: Businesses 
in well-established clusters grew three times faster and had a 
higher job retention rate than other local businesses. Another 
study by the U.S. SBA found that businesses in designated SBA 
clusters had higher revenue and employment growth than other regional small businesses after only two years. Moreover, these businesses had sparked greater rates of innovation. 
For more information on Small Business Forward,  
see www.jpmorganchase.com/SBF .JPMORGAN CHASE IN 2014:
Launched Small Business  Forward, a five-year, $30 million  grant program to support the  
formation, growth and success  
of small business clusters in  the United States and Europe
JPMorgan Chase has been a strong advocate of small business 
clusters. Small Business Forward expands on that commitment and will help support business planning; networks of specialized small business suppliers; workforce and management training; export promotion; outreach to increase the participation of 
women and minority entrepreneurs; and affordable, easily 
expandable facilities that can accommodate rapidly growing small enterprises.
CITY SPOTLIGHTS:
MILAN, MADRID AND ATHENS
SCALING SOCIAL ENTREPRENEURS
Unemployment in Italy, Spain and Greece stands at 13%, 23% and 26%, respectively, above the European Union average of 10%. In these economies, young workers often find that their 
only employment opportunities are part time or temporary, 
raising the prospect of long-term cyclical unemployment. One solution is a strengthened social enterprise sector, an approach that has been adopted by the European Union as part of its 
Europe 2020 strategy to create smarter, more sustainable and 
more inclusive economies. 
European social entrepreneurs are developing successful 
models to tackle social problems within their countries. 
But they face challenges growing those enterprises across borders. Enter Impact Hub, a 10-year-old network of business 
incubators and accelerators that help social enterprises scale up and expand capacity successfully. 
In 2014, JPMorgan Chase committed approximately €780,000 
over 18 months to enable Impact Hub to expand support for 24 social entrepreneurs who are scaling their enterprises 
either to or within Italy, Spain and Greece. The program is part 
of a larger effort by BENISI (Building a European Network of Incubators for Social Innovation) and aims to help promising social enterprises generate jobs, particularly for unemployed/underemployed people and vulnerable groups, by expanding 
within their countries and across European borders.$30M
29
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACH OUR FOCUS AREAS
INCREASING ECONOMIC 
COMPETITIVENESS EXPANDING GLOBAL FINANCIAL CAPABILITY BUILDING  COMMUNITIES SUPPORTING SMALL BUSINESSES INVESTING IN  SKILLSProviding Small Businesses  
with the Capital to Grow
In 2014, Chase made $19 billion in new 
small business loans and served our  
3.9 million small business customers through a team of more than 10,000 dedicated small business bankers in 
communities across the United States. 
We were a top three U.S. Small Business Administration lender 
and, for the third year in a row, originated more SBA loans to women- and minority-owned businesses than any other 
lender. Chase supports the SBA program because of its critically 
important role in providing capital to small businesses that have growth potential but may not qualify for conventional loans. SBA loans drive innovation and new approaches, support financial 
inclusion and invigorate economic growth in communities with 
high unemployment. 
JPMorgan Chase also sees it as an important responsibility to 
provide the capital, resources and tools military veterans need to 
become successful small business owners. In addition, we source 
from many veteran-owned businesses for our own operations.
JPMORGAN CHASE IN 2014:
For the second year in a row, we were recognized by the National Veteran-Owned Business Association as a top company for supporting 
veteran-owned businesses
MISSION MAIN STREET
JPMorgan Chase’s Mission Main Street Grants® program each  
year provides $3 million to small businesses around the United States that make a positive impact in their communities. See 
www.missionmainstreetgrants.com for more information on the 
program and the 2014 winners.
JPMORGAN CHASE IN 2014:
20 recipients – selected from more than 25,000 entrants – were awarded $150,000 each plus a 
trip to Google headquarters and 
customized consumer research to help them grow their businessesCITY SPOTLIGHT:
LOS ANGELES
CONNECTING SMALL BUSINESS OWNERS 
WITH A FINANCING ALTERNATIVE
When Chase business bankers in Los Angeles meet with a 
client or potential client who has a promising small business idea but does not qualify for a traditional business or SBA 
loan, they work to identify solutions. Often they will contact one of our community development partners, such as the Valley Economic Development Center (VEDC), to see if they can make a match. With different underwriting criteria based 
on its mission and status as a community development 
financial institution, VEDC has greater flexibility to make loans. With an introduction from a trusted partner like Chase, applicants frequently have a greater ability to access a low 
interest rate loan.
One example is Maverick’s Flat, which has been part of 
Los Angeles’ Crenshaw Corridor since 1966. The original Maverick’s Flat was an entertainment destination, where iconic 
musicians such as the Temptations; Marvin Gaye; Chaka Khan; 
and Earth, Wind & Fire performed. Owner Seth Cartwright envisioned transforming the location into a live jazz bar and grill. Chase referred Seth to VEDC, where he obtained a 
$700,000 loan to complete renovations and re-open in 2014, 
hosting top musicians on the renowned stage. Maverick’s Flat brings 40 new, full-time jobs to South Los Angeles to continue the recovery and revitalization of the area. 
The positive impact of making these kinds of connections 
has been clear in Los Angeles, and we now are extending the referral concept to other markets across the United States.
$150,000
30
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACH OUR FOCUS AREAS
INCREASING ECONOMIC 
COMPETITIVENESS EXPANDING GLOBAL FINANCIAL CAPABILITY BUILDING  COMMUNITIES SUPPORTING SMALL BUSINESSES INVESTING IN  SKILLSEXPANDING GLOBAL FINANCIAL CAPABILITY
Around the world, too many people struggle with financial 
insecurity, which not only destabilizes individual households but also has far-reaching consequences for communities 
and the global economy.
Improving financial security requires delivering relevant, timely 
information paired with products designed to help people manage their daily financial lives, withstand emergencies and achieve their 
long-term goals. 
In 2014, JPMorgan Chase launched a global financial capability 
initiative to help people increase savings, improve credit, and build and protect assets. One part of this is the Financial Solutions Lab, designed to identify and scale innovative solutions to 
consumer financial challenges. In addition, through our Social 
Finance business, we are investing in scalable, sustainable solutions to provide greater access to financial products and services and improve the livelihoods of underserved  
populations around the world.FINANCIAL CAPABILITY – THE FACTS
Almost 2 billion people globally do not have a 
formal account at a financial institution
55% of borrowers in developing economies 
use only informal sources of credit, which can be riskier and more expensive than bank loans
More than a quarter of U.S. households 
rely on costly non-bank services and, as a result, spend the same share of their income 
on interest and fees as the average household spends on food
JPMORGAN CHASE IN 2014:
Founded the Financial 
Solutions Lab, a  $30 million, five-year 
initiative developed in 
partnership with the  Center for Financial  Services Innovation
Committed an additional $35 million over two 
years to support proven 
financial capability programs with nonprofits globally
Increased our investments in funds 
promoting financial 
capability over the past four years to $28 million of our $63 million impact investing portfolio$30M
$28M$35M
31
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACH OUR FOCUS AREAS
SUPPORTING SMALL 
BUSINESSESEXPANDING GLOBAL FINANCIAL CAPABILITY INCREASING ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS BUILDING  COMMUNITIES INVESTING IN  SKILLSAT WORK IN:
SAN FRANCISCO
Scaling Innovation to  
Help Build Credit History 
In San Francisco’s low-income communities – as in cities  
around the world – networks of friends and neighbors  
often pool cash to make loans. 
It reflects a powerful tradition of helping one another, but those 
informal arrangements do not allow the borrowers to build credit histories, leaving them unable to access affordable, mainstream 
financial products and services. 
Founded in San Francisco in 2008, Mission Asset Fund (MAF)  
has turned this tradition of social loans into a formal Lending  
Circles Program, through which individuals borrow money from  
each other at zero interest and payment activity is reported  to credit bureaus. The program’s success has been impressive:  On average, participants have increased their credit scores by  168 points – reducing average debt by more than $1,000 in the 
process. And the default rate is less than 1%. 
JPMorgan Chase is helping MAF scale the Lending Circles Program 
with a two-year, $600,000 grant to support the national rollout  
of its mobile-friendly technology platform, LendingCircles.org.  
The new platform will automate loan-servicing functions and  
credit reporting, automatically manage participants’ statements, send payment reminders via text message and more. We also initiated a Lending Circles Tour to help MAF identify and engage 
potential program partners across the United States. With  
JPMorgan Chase’s support, MAF is expanding the program to Chicago, Dallas, Denver, Detroit, El Paso, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New York City and Washington, D.C. JPMORGAN CHASE IN  
SAN FRANCISCO IN 2014
Consumer customers:  
575,000Small business customers: 
42,000
Extended $70 million in loans 
to support small businesses 
Provided $2.7 billion in credit  
to corporations,  
local governments  and nonprofits 
Deployed $14 million  in equity and investments  to support  community  development,  
including 344  
units of  affordable  housing$70M
$14M$2.7B
32
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACH OUR FOCUS AREAS
SUPPORTING SMALL 
BUSINESSESEXPANDING GLOBAL FINANCIAL CAPABILITY INCREASING ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS BUILDING  COMMUNITIES INVESTING IN  SKILLSPROPELLING INNOVATION WITH THE FINANCIAL 
SOLUTIONS LAB
The expansion of MAF’s Lending Circles Program shows what can be 
achieved by bringing together innovative ideas, consumer insights, strong partners and technology. It’s a powerful combination – and one 
that JPMorgan Chase is leveraging to catalyze new solutions to help 
people achieve a more secure financial future. 
In 2014, we founded the Financial Solutions Lab, a $30 million, 
five-year initiative developed in partnership with the Center for 
Financial Services Innovation (CFSI) to identify, test and expand 
the availability of innovations to help Americans increase savings, improve credit and build assets. IDEO.org  and ideas42 serve as 
strategic advisors supporting the Lab’s design, implementation 
and capacity to yield sustainable, scalable solutions. The Lab will 
hold a series of competitions to support the next generation of technology-enabled financial solutions addressing consumer needs. Winning solutions will receive capital from the Lab and technical 
assistance from our partners and JPMorgan Chase employees. In 
early 2015, the Lab announced its first competition for entrepreneurs and nonprofit organizations with solutions that help households manage their finances in the days between when income comes in 
and bills are due – a timing mismatch that CFSI has identified as one 
of the greatest financial challenges facing low- to moderate-income 
families. Applicants will compete to receive up to $250,000 in capital, along with national partnership opportunities, industry expertise, mentorship, and cutting-edge consumer and design insights necessary to power the next generation of leading financial services innovations.
We know that competition can spur innovation – and that collaboration 
feeds it. That’s why we also are bringing together experts from the fields of technology, behavioral economics, nonprofit services and 
design to increase the reach and impact of the winners and help foster 
innovation from a range of financial providers that will reach many more people in need. 
Financial insecurity is always a critical issue but even more 
so now because we are still in the midst of rebuilding the 
American economy, and many people are still being left behind. 
The financial industry has an opportunity – and an obligation – 
to use its expertise to create new ways to encourage people to save, grow their assets and increase their financial stability.” 
Marc Morial, President and CEO, National Urban League 
33
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACH OUR FOCUS AREAS
SUPPORTING SMALL 
BUSINESSESEXPANDING GLOBAL FINANCIAL CAPABILITY INCREASING ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS BUILDING  COMMUNITIES INVESTING IN  SKILLSEvolving from Financial  
Literacy to Financial Capability 
JPMORGAN CHASE IN 2014:
Deployed $18 million toward our $35 million 
commitment, including a two-year, $1.75 million grant to support the Corporation for 
Enterprise Development’s (CFED) Platforms 
for Prosperity Fund. The Fund is working to help nonprofits integrate financial capability strategies into existing social service programs, 
such as workforce training and affordable 
housing programs that improve the nonprofits’ ability to meet their clients’ needs.To reduce financial insecurity and help 
individuals and families avoid costly services 
like payday loans or check cashing outlets – 
which drain $2,400 per year, or roughly 10% of annual income, from the average low-income 
family in the United States – there’s a need to do 
more than just raise awareness. 
Enabling consumers to increase savings, improve credit and build assets 
requires a new approach that combines timely information with innovative tools, products and services that turn knowledge into action. 
To help accelerate this shift, in 2014, JPMorgan Chase launched a global 
initiative to increase the financial well-being of households through financial capability programs. The initiative draws on cutting-edge best practices to 
drive demonstrable, lasting change in financial behaviors to help people 
effectively manage their daily finances, weather emergencies and, ultimately, achieve a more secure financial future. 
The consequences of financial insecurity extend well beyond struggling 
individuals and families. The University of North Carolina Center for 
Community Capital and JPMorgan Chase reviewed major studies across several disciplines and found that financial insecurity reduces worker employability and productivity, increases demand for public services, 
impedes economic recovery and undermines long-term growth  
and productivity. 
We have committed $35 million over two years to support high-impact 
nonprofit organizations working to help individuals acquire the knowledge, 
skills and tools needed to promote financial security.CITY SPOTLIGHT:
MIAMI
PROVIDING UNDERSERVED 
HOUSEHOLDS ACCESS TO THE 
FINANCIAL MAINSTREAM
According to 2013 data from the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation, more than 20% of Miami households do not have a bank account 
or regularly utilize alternative financial services 
such as check cashers and payday loans. 
Catalyst Miami is a nonprofit organization 
whose Prosperity Campaign works to link 
families with financial services and healthcare programs to increase economic stability. Through the program, Catalyst connects families with financial coaching paired with products to 
help them increase savings and improve their 
credit scores. Catalyst Miami works closely with participants to help them reach their financial goals by offering credit counseling and family 
budgeting, in addition to benefits enrollment,  
tax services and career services.
JPMorgan Chase has supported Catalyst 
Miami since 2004 and is helping to expand its 
newly launched Lending Circles Program, in 
collaboration with Mission Asset Fund, to help underserved communities of Miami-Dade County gain access to the financial mainstream and 
improve their financial security. 
$18M
34
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACH OUR FOCUS AREAS
SUPPORTING SMALL 
BUSINESSESEXPANDING GLOBAL FINANCIAL CAPABILITY INCREASING ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS BUILDING  COMMUNITIES INVESTING IN  SKILLSNew Approaches to Promoting Financial Capability 
JPMorgan Chase is actively channeling 
investment capital toward market-based 
solutions to increase financial security 
among low-income and underserved populations around the world. 
Increasingly, entrepreneurs and investors recognize the potential 
of this type of impact investing, which is intended to create positive environmental and social impacts alongside financial return. 
Since 2009, we have invested $63 million of our own capital – and 
catalyzed millions more from our clients and partners – in funds that seek to improve the livelihoods of underserved populations. 
A key focus has been funds that identify and support businesses 
whose products and services expand financial capability among their target populations. 
For example, JPMorgan Chase has been an active supporter of 
LeapFrog Investments, which invests in companies that provide 
insurance, savings, pensions and related financial products to low-income and financially excluded consumers in Africa and Asia. In addition to capital, LeapFrog provides valuable expertise in the 
design, marketing and distribution of financial products that are 
affordable, accessible and relevant to the needs of low-income consumers. These innovative tools offer an individual or family a means to improve their financial stability and to access the kinds of economic opportunities necessary to exit poverty. Through its 
portfolio companies, the fund reaches more than 30 million people 
in its target markets. 
JPMorgan Chase invested in the first LeapFrog fund in 2010. We 
also played an active role in recruiting investors – and committed 
our own capital – to a second fund that closed in 2014. At $400 million in capital, it was nearly three times larger than the first fund, reflecting strong investor interest. LeapFrog demonstrates not only the power of impact investing to deliver high social impact 
but also financial returns, having executed two successful exits: 
In 2014, Swiss Re bought LeapFrog’s stake in Apollo, an insurer in East Africa. The sale follows one in 2013 when Prudential plc acquired LeapFrog’s stake in Ghanaian insurer Express Life. In 
each case, LeapFrog used a rigorous Responsible Exits Framework 
– which takes into account an acquirer’s interest in serving low-income customers, commitment to a quality workplace for the company’s employees and the financial proposition for LeapFrog’s investors – as an integral element of the exit process. “LeapFrog Investments was founded on the idea that there is both financial and social opportunity to invest in businesses that serve the 3.6 billion people worldwide who earn less 
than $10 a day and lack access to the financial tools that 
facilitate a rise into the middle class. 
We find businesses that serve these consumers and bring 
capital and expertise to help them scale. Our founding vision 
was to invest $100 million in businesses that serve 25 million low-income people. Six years later, we have raised $500 million, and our companies reach 30 million people across Africa and Asia. For example, Bima, which delivers insurance 
via mobile phones, is reaching 9.5 million people  
in 15 countries, almost all of them using insurance for the 
first time in their lives.
Conventional wisdom is that investors must trade off profit 
for social benefit. In our business, we see how investing in socially driven businesses can reduce risk and enhance profitability. Profitable businesses, in turn, attract capital  
and talent and can scale to have ever more impact.”
Andrew Kuper , Founder and CEO, LeapFrog 
Investments
35
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACH OUR FOCUS AREAS
SUPPORTING SMALL 
BUSINESSESEXPANDING GLOBAL FINANCIAL CAPABILITY INCREASING ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS BUILDING  COMMUNITIES INVESTING IN  SKILLSCITY SPOTLIGHT:
MEXICO CITY
ONLINE LOANS VIA MIMONI 
In Mexico, just 27% of individuals over age 15 have a bank 
account. Many people turn to pawn shop transactions –  15 million transactions worth USD$6 billion occur annually  
– or other high-priced alternatives for emergency funds.  
Now, however, they have another option: MiMoni.
Started in Mexico City, MiMoni uses a proprietary risk 
technology to offer short-term loans to underserved 
consumers, providing an accessible alternative to high-cost emergency loans. Using an online application process and an automated, data-driven lending model, MiMoni provides credit decisions within 24 hours without the need for collateral. While 
its rates are higher than conventional bank loans (which often 
are unavailable to its customers), they are significantly lower than other non-traditional lenders.In just a year and a half, MiMoni has become the largest online microloan provider in Latin America, with nearly 200,000 registered users. The company is on track to grow its loan 
volume by nearly 300% in 2015, and customer satisfaction 
remains high – 88% of customers are highly likely to recommend MiMoni. 
Key to getting MiMoni off the ground was a $12.8 million 
investment by IGNIA, a venture capital fund in which JPMorgan 
Chase has invested $5 million. IGNIA invests in high-growth enterprises targeting the 70% of Mexico’s population that earns less than USD$4,000 per year, focusing on industries 
with high impact on people’s daily lives, such as healthcare, 
financial services, housing and basic services.
36
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACH OUR FOCUS AREAS
SUPPORTING SMALL 
BUSINESSESEXPANDING GLOBAL FINANCIAL CAPABILITY INCREASING ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS BUILDING  COMMUNITIES INVESTING IN  SKILLSOPERATING RESPONSIBLY
At JPMorgan Chase, 
operating responsibly means responsiveness to our 
stakeholders and integrity 
in all we do, with strong governance and a robust framework of controls. 
It includes managing environmental and social risks 
effectively in our business activities and managing our own operations efficiently and sustainably. It means 
being transparent with our customers and treating  
them fairly and supporting our employees in an 
inclusive environment.  In December 2014, we published “How We Do Business – The Report,” which describes our firm’s 
business practices and standards, as well as actions 
we have taken to address recent legal and regulatory issues. The report details the ways we have sought to strengthen our corporate culture and structure to improve understanding, adherence and enforcement of 
our corporate standards, as well as to strengthen our 
control environment. The report also describes how we are redoubling our commitment to customers and are working to enhance our relationships with regulators, shareholders and communities. 
The actions described in the report reflect our 
commitment to improving. We view them as part of  
a continuing effort, one that will make us stronger,  
more resilient and better positioned for long-term business success.
We have taken great care to 
re-articulate and re-emphasize 
our cultural values and corporate 
standards consistently and clearly 
so they can be internalized by employees and result in the kinds of observable, ethical behaviors 
that we expect. High standards, 
strong values and a commitment to doing first-class business in a first-class way must remain ingrained 
in our company’s DNA. We do this 
by setting the tone from the top; hiring and retaining great, diverse 
employees; training our people 
at each stage of their career; disciplining employees for doing the wrong thing; building teamwork 
and morale; communicating 
honestly, clearly and consistently; and striving to be good leaders.” 
From “How We Do Business –  
The Report”
“How We Do Business – The Report”  
is available at www.jpmorganchase.com/HowWeDoBusiness.
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014
37ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACH OPERATING RESPONSIBLY OUR FOCUS AREASIn Conversation
WHAT DOES OPERATING RESPONSIBLY  
MEAN TO YOUR COMPANY? 
Paul Polman: It means acting with integrity in 
everything we do and with respect for our employees and 
shareholders, partners and stakeholders. But it doesn’t end 
there. With finite resources and global population growth, 
the successful business model has to be sustainable and responsible – to drive growth, mitigate risks, cut costs and attract the best talent. Fundamentally re-evaluating the 
way we do business means understanding that our role is 
to serve the broader society. 
Daniel Pinto: For JPMorgan Chase, it starts with 
unwavering ethics and integrity and robust governance and controls. It also means being responsive to our customers 
and other stakeholders, supporting our employees and 
effectively managing risks in our business. Those are the fundamentals – and they are the basis for building a successful, enduring company that has the strength and 
reach to create broad economic and social value for our 
customers and our communities. HOW DO YOU THINK ABOUT SUSTAINABLE 
GROWTH AND WHY DOES IT MATTER?
Paul Polman: We continue to push at the limit of 
planetary boundaries. Growth has come at an enormous cost 
to our rapidly depleting natural resources. We need a long-
term growth model that reduces environmental impacts 
and increases positive social impact. Sustainable, equitable growth is the premise of the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan. Thinking long term will be the best way to continue 
serving our consumers in the decades to come and beyond.
Daniel Pinto: Long-term economic growth fundamentally 
depends on our ability to meet the needs of communities 
around the world and to do so sustainably. That includes 
ensuring reliable and affordable access to natural resources 
– energy, food and infrastructure – but it also includes the need for safe, prosperous and healthy communities and the importance of access to education, jobs and healthcare. 
Meeting these challenges will be essential to our clients’ – 
and, by extension, our own – success. Daniel Pinto (left), Chief Executive Officer of the Corporate & Investment Bank at JPMorgan Chase, and Paul Polman, Chief  Executive Officer of Unilever – a JPMorgan Chase client – discuss their companies’ perspectives on operating responsibly  
and advancing sustainability.
38
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACH OPERATING RESPONSIBLY OUR FOCUS AREASTHE WORLD IS RAPIDLY URBANIZING. WHAT 
ARE THE SUSTAINABILITY IMPLICATIONS?
Paul Polman: Nearly 60% of Unilever’s business is 
in the emerging markets, where a wave of urbanization 
is driving growth and raising incomes. That presents 
tremendous business opportunities, but it also means 
extra stress on resources. There is an opportunity in these markets to help reduce this stress – through sustainable sourcing and water programs, for example – and also 
to improve the lives of millions of people through our 
products: clean drinking water, basic hygiene and  good nutrition. 
For example, our Pureit filter, a low-cost water purifier that 
doesn’t require running water or electricity to operate, 
is providing safe drinking water to 55 million people. Providing solutions to sustainability challenges is both a moral imperative and a strong business proposition.
Daniel Pinto: Urbanization will present challenges 
and opportunities for our clients across a broad range of sectors, from energy and infrastructure to agriculture 
and consumer products. Urban centers present a 
host of sustainability challenges – pressure on fresh water supplies, air pollution – but also offer promising sustainability potential. By virtue of their density, urban 
centers can use energy and other resources more 
efficiently, and they are the epicenters and drivers of sustainable product and service innovation. 
We work with our clients to help accelerate and deploy 
these innovations. For example, we helped Solar City raise 
capital for its solar photovoltaic business, and the company now has become the largest solar service provider in the United States.WHAT IS YOUR COMPANY’S STRATEGY FOR 
ADDRESSING CLIMATE CHANGE? 
Paul Polman: Most CEOs now know their companies 
cannot prosper in a world of runaway climate change. At 
Unilever, we see volatility in input costs, water scarcity and 
reduced productivity in parts of our agricultural supply 
chain – left unchecked, climate change has the potential to become a significant barrier to growth. 
Tackling deforestation is one of the most urgent challenges 
in the effort to respond to climate change – it is responsible for 15% of emissions, and commercial agriculture is its primary driver. Unilever has committed to source 100% of our agricultural raw materials sustainably by 2020. We’re 
putting huge effort into establishing traceability within our 
supply chains, working with the World Resources Institute and other partners, as well as reducing our own emissions. But the solution will need to be system-wide. So we’ve 
also been encouraging corporate commitments to ending 
deforestation and to persuade governments to deliver the right frameworks and incentives. 
Daniel Pinto: Climate change is an important global 
issue and one that matters to us because of its potential to impact our clients’ businesses. We support clients that 
take a proactive and strategic approach to environmental 
risk management. We also raise capital for clients whose businesses provide solutions to climate change and other sustainability challenges – whether that’s clean energy or 
companies like Unilever that are developing innovative 
models to stop deforestation. We think partnerships can be extremely valuable, and that is why we’re supporting efforts like NatureVest, a new initiative of The Nature Conservancy, to scale investments in projects that generate 
positive financial returns and conservation benefits. Long-
term solutions to climate change can be most effective if they work well for markets, as well as for the environment.
HOW DO YOU RECONCILE A DRIVE FOR SUSTAINABLE GROWTH WITH SHORT-TERM MARKET PRESSURES? 
Paul Polman: The 90-day reporting cycle encourages 
short-term thinking, and if you’re managing your business to it, you’re probably making the wrong decisions for the 
longer-term health of the business. So we abandoned 
guidance, changed our compensation system for the long term and then moved away from quarterly profit reporting. We wanted to send a clear signal about our focus on long-
term growth.
Daniel Pinto: We believe that the way to build a healthy 
and vibrant company is to recognize that profits reflect 
decisions made over many years. We maintain discipline around investing in our business – in technology, people, controls and other efforts critical to the long-term health of our company. But, like all companies, we operate in an 
environment that often is narrowly focused quarter to 
quarter, so there’s a tension. 
There’s no easy solution, but I think we’re seeing some 
evidence of a new way of thinking, a growing recognition on 
the part of many business leaders that corporate success and society’s health are linked. So what in the past may have been viewed as conflicting priorities is increasingly seen as mutually reinforcing.
39
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACH OPERATING RESPONSIBLY OUR FOCUS AREASSustainable Finance
©Steven Gnam for The Nature ConservancyEver-increasing demand for natural resources, 
energy, food and infrastructure creates a 
growing set of environmental and social 
risks and opportunities for governments, corporations and other institutions around  
the world.
As a global financial institution, JPMorgan Chase helps our clients identify 
and reduce these risks, find solutions to emerging issues and capitalize on the opportunities created by the transition to a more sustainable global 
economy. We view these activities as fundamental to sound risk management 
within our firm – and a core part of the value proposition we offer our clients.
JPMorgan Chase’s Environmental and Social Policy Framework summarizes 
our approach to integrating environmental and social risk considerations  
into the way we do business and articulates our broader strategy on key issues such as biodiversity, human rights and climate change (see  www.jpmorganchase.com/ESPFramework2014). 
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
Understanding our clients’ environmental and social performance is an important element of how we assess and manage risk. Failing to appropriately manage these issues can directly impact our clients’ operations 
and long-term economic viability, our firm’s reputation, and the communities 
and environment in which we all operate.
JPMorgan Chase has a robust internal process and a dedicated team of 
experts to identify and assess potential environmental and social risks 
associated with certain transactions involving corporate and project lending, underwriting and advisory services. We apply specific criteria, outlined in our Environmental and Social Policy Framework, to transactions with new and existing clients to determine whether an environmental and social risk review 
is required and, if so, what level of due diligence is appropriate. 
Of the 1,415 transactions screened in 2014, 409 met our criteria for 
additional risk review and were subsequently approved (see figure 1).  
The majority of transactions reviewed were for corporate-level financing 
rather than for asset- or project-specific financing. 
JPMorgan Chase is an adopter or signatory to various internationally 
recognized principles that help guide our efforts on environmental and social 
risk management, including the Equator Principles and the Carbon Principles. 
In 2014, under the Equator Principles, we closed two project finance  deals and two project-related corporate loans (for additional details,  see www.jpmorganchase.com/EquatorReport). We applied the Enhanced 
Diligence Process of the Carbon Principles to a general corporate-purpose 
bond issue for one client. We did not participate in any municipal bond  or project financing of Carbon Principles-eligible facilities in 2014.JPMORGAN CHASE IN 2014:
Underwrote more than  $2.2 billion in green bonds – double the 2013 volume
Conducted environmental and social risk review on 409 transactions 
that were subsequently 
approved
Provided founding sponsorship of NatureVest, 
an initiative of The Nature 
Conservancy to attract investment capital to conservation409$2.2B
40
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OUR FOCUS AREAS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACHKurt Kuehn, Chief Financial Officer, UPS, (left),  
being interviewed by Eric Stein, J.P. Morgan North America Head of Investment Banking Coverage.
JPMORGAN CHASE’S INAUGURAL CHIEF 
SUSTAINABILITY OFFICERS SUMMIT
Every day across our business, we hear from individual 
clients about the sustainability issues, challenges and opportunities being confronted. This extensive network of 
client relationships provides JPMorgan Chase with a global 
perspective into emerging sustainability trends, evolving practices and value drivers. We put this insight to work as a resource and partner to our clients, helping them meet their 
business and sustainability objectives. 
In 2014, JPMorgan Chase convened its first Chief 
Sustainability Officers summit, bringing together representatives from more than 90 client companies to 
discuss the business implications of sustainability and 
providing a forum for our clients to gain insights directly from one another.
ENGAGING CLIENTS ON BEST PRACTICES
In recent years, we have undertaken portfolio reviews of clients outside the context of individual transactions to enable us to  
more effectively understand and manage risk at a portfolio level. 
The portfolio reviews allow us to assess how our clients are 
managing environmental and social risks across a particular industry and enable us to more effectively identify opportunities to engage with clients around solutions and industry best practices.  
In 2014, we completed a portfolio review of our clients in the oil and gas sector. 
In addition, we routinely engage with individual clients to help them 
develop solutions for specific environmental and social challenges, 
meet relevant international or industry standards, or improve the 
quality and consistency of their disclosures to stakeholders.Figure 1   Number and C ategory of Transactions Screened 
and Approved (2014)
1,415
Screened409
Approved22
High Risk
343
Medium Risk
44
Low Risk
Figure 2 Transactions Approved (%)
 Agriculture 3%
 Chemicals 5%
 Forestry, Pulp & Paper 1%
 Heavy Manufacturing 4%
 Infrastructure 2%
 Mining & Metals 13%
 Oil & Gas 57%
 Power 6%
 Shipping 1%
 Other 8% Asia Pacific 16%
 Europe, Middle East,  
 Africa 16%
 Latin America 13%
 North America 55%By Region
 Advisory 7%
 Credit Facility 49%
 Debt Security Offering 27%
 Equity Security Offering 9%
 Onboarding 3%
 Other 5%By Product
By Sector
41
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OUR FOCUS AREAS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACHFINANCING SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS
We believe there is tremendous potential for energy efficiency, 
renewable energy and other technologies to help address a range of sustainability challenges. We provide a full suite of advisory, 
underwriting and lending capabilities for clients that are working 
to develop and implement solutions that help meet critical sustainability needs.
JPMorgan Chase has established itself as a leader in the 
green bond market, which facilitates financing for companies and projects that promote climate, environmental or other sustainability benefits. We have underwritten more than $4.4 billion in green bonds since 2007, with more than $2.2 billion 
in 2014 alone. In 2014, we managed a $228 million green 
bond issuance for the Massachusetts Clean Water Trust, which administers clean water drinking programs that provide loans to cities, towns and local public authorities for projects to improve 
drinking water and treat wastewater. 
JPMorgan Chase also was one of the lead authors of the Green 
Bond Principles, released in 2014, which offer guidelines for the development and issuance of green bonds, and currently serves 
on the Executive Committee of the Green Bond Principles, now 
coordinated by the International Capital Market Association. 
JPMORGAN CHASE IN 2014:
Committed and arranged approximately $1.8 billion of capital for wind and solar energy projects 
in the United States. Since 2003, we 
have raised $13 billion for renewable energy projects, including $7 billion  of our own capital.
COMMITMENTS AND MEMBERSHIPS
JPMorgan Chase employs a range of best practices and adheres to certain internationally recognized principles in our effort to promote sustainable performance. Our 
memberships include:
• Business Environmental Leadership Council
• Carbon Principles
• CDP
• Ceres Company Network
• Equator Principles
• Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative
• Green Bond Principles
• United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative
• United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment
• World Business Council for Sustainable Development
For more information, please visit www.jpmorganchase.com/SustainabilityPrinciples.SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS
We strive to manage our corporate offices, retail branches 
and data centers efficiently and sustainably. JPMorgan Chase responds to CDP’s annual climate change questionnaire 
and received a score of 97/B in 2014. Data on our energy 
and greenhouse gas emissions can be found in our Global Reporting Initiative index at www.jpmorganchase.com/CorporateResponsibility .
New Financial Models to Address Critical 
Environmental and Social Challenges
A growing number of institutions and individuals are recognizing 
the power and potential of impact investments, which are intended to create positive environmental and social impacts 
alongside financial returns. JPMorgan Chase leverages our 
experience as a leading principal investor in the impact investing market to provide advisory, structuring and placement of impact investment funds for clients. 
In 2014, JPMorgan Chase became the founding sponsor of 
NatureVest, an initiative of The Nature Conservancy to accelerate the development of a market for profitable investments in natural ecosystems by deploying new private capital to conservation 
projects and providing a forum for research and analysis. During 
the year, NatureVest released its first research report, which found evidence of rapid growth and increasing interest in the conservation impact investment market (see www.naturevesttnc.org ). 
JPMorgan Chase also partnered with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to structure the Global Health Investment Fund  
(GHIF), a $108 million impact fund launched in 2013 and designed to finance the development of global health products to address 
diseases that disproportionately affect low-income countries. In 
2014, the GHIF made its first investments, totaling $13 million. This included $5 million to support the final stages of product development for a new oral cholera vaccine manufactured by 
EuBiologics Co., Ltd. and an $8 million bond to commercialize a 
powerful new diagnostic for tuberculosis developed by  
Epistem Holdings Plc.$1.8B
42
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OUR FOCUS AREAS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACHOur Customer Commitment
JPMORGAN CHASE 2014 CUSTOMER  
SERVICE RANKINGSAcross JPMorgan Chase, our most 
important goal is to serve our customers 
well. We believe that when we do that, 
customers will want to do more business with us. 
Through our Consumer & Community Banking business, JPMorgan 
Chase has a relationship with nearly half of all households in the United States. Every day, we put our commitment to customer 
service into practice as we help these millions of individuals and 
families manage their daily finances, save money and invest for the future. 
Our commitment to our customers means that we work continually 
to find ways to improve their banking experience – providing the products and services they want and making it easier for them to do business with us. We’ve made it easier for customers to connect more quickly with banking specialists via phone and have improved 
our systems so that customers can see updated information online, 
within minutes of requesting changes. 
We know that fairness and transparency are the operating rules of 
good relationships so we have adopted principles and procedures 
that ensure fair treatment of customers; worked to simplify our disclosures, products and services, and operations; and enhanced our efforts to listen and respond to customer feedback.
MAKING MORTGAGES WORK FOR  
OUR CUSTOMERS
As one of the largest mortgage lenders in the United States, we take great pride in helping our customers achieve and sustain homeownership. In 2014, we originated more than 347,000 
single family mortgages, representing $87 billion in loans for 
home purchase, refinance and home improvement. Of these loans, roughly $17 billion were made to low- or moderate-income borrowers or communities. 
Over the past few years, we have taken a variety of steps 
to streamline our product offerings and introduce product enhancements to better reflect customer needs. For example, we reduced our suite of mortgage products from 37 to 18, and 
it will be down to 15 by the end of 2015. Yet the remaining 
products still can meet 97% of customers’ needs. And when our customers told us that escrow can be the most challenging aspect of managing their mortgage, we introduced an online tool 
for escrow management that helps them learn about the escrow 
process and understand how payments are applied. 
Our employees are trained to communicate consistently in 
customer interactions, setting clear expectations and explaining 
fees and costs that are part of the origination process. We 
focus on achieving and maintaining excellence in key customer experience drivers, such as closing on time and avoiding multiple requests for documents. 
Enabling Long-Term Homeownership
At JPMorgan Chase, our goal is to help people buy homes they can afford – today and over the long term. We remain committed to low- and moderate-income homebuyers, along with customers 
who are experiencing a financial hardship. 
In recent years, we have strengthened our approach to helping 
homeowners who are struggling to make their mortgage 
payments through a focus on early intervention. We provide 
extensive training to enable our employees to better support customers who are having difficulty making mortgage payments and have enhanced our communications with customers to provide better counseling and more clarity about their options.
Since 2009, we have helped prevent nearly 1.2 million 
foreclosures, provided more than $8.2 billion in loan forgiveness and completed in excess of 631,000 loan modifications, including 
62,430 in 2014.in customer satisfaction among big banks 
for the third consecutive year (American Customer Satisfaction Index, December 2014)
in the J.D. Power 2014 Mortgage Servicing 
Study, up from #13 in 2010
in the J.D. Power 2014 Mortgage Origination 
Study, up from #12 in 2010 and #5 in 2013#1
#2
#3
43
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OUR FOCUS AREAS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACHSupporting Our People
The long-term growth and success of JPMorgan 
Chase depends on our ability to attract and 
retain our employees. They are a tremendous 
asset and the embodiment of our corporate culture. We are committed to maintaining an 
inclusive workplace where all employees can do 
well and to providing them with opportunities for further development. 
 
TRAINING FOR EXCELLENCE AND CAREER MOBILITY
One of the ways we enable people to succeed is through training. We invest 
about $300 million every year on training for our 240,000 employees, offering them a broad range of firmwide and line of business-specific training 
programs. We also focus on enabling employees to build skills through 
internal mobility, and we place a priority on filling open roles from within. 
JPMorgan Chase provides its employees with a broad range of development 
opportunities that build critical skills and advance their careers. In 2014, 
employees completed training on topics ranging from financial products and regulatory controls to culture and conduct and broad-spectrum people management. We also provide a significant amount of training at the entry-level analyst and associate levels to build the technical expertise needed for 
success in these roles. In addition, our global leadership and development 
executives are creating a new program centered on leadership skills and our Business Principles for more than 40,000 JPMorgan Chase managers around the world. 
OUR APPROACH TO DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION 
JPMorgan Chase gains strength from a diverse workforce, and our success is driven by employees who treat customers respectfully and stay true to the Business Principles that guide everything we do: exceptional client 
service; operational excellence; a commitment to integrity, fairness and 
responsibility; and a great team and winning culture.
Positive and inclusive work environments also allow us to retain the talented 
people we hire. Employees who feel valued are highly motivated to deliver 
the best service to our customers. In 2014 globally, 49% of our new  hires were women. In the United States, 58% of our hires were racially  or ethnically diverse.INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE IN 2014:
100% of employees participated in annual learning programs covering 
leadership, management, 
culture and conduct, and compliance training 
40% of roles across  the firm were filled by 
internal candidates
Recognized as one of the 
Best Employers for Healthy 
Lifestyles by the National 
Business Group on Health
9 out of 10 candidates offered a job accepted a position
RECOGNITION
JPMorgan Chase is a great place to work, develop skills and build a long-term career, and we’re proud of the recognition we receive. See  
www.jpmorganchase.com/awards.100%
40%
44
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OUR FOCUS AREAS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACHThe Blueprint for Diversity & Inclusion
Managers at all levels in the organization play a critical role in 
the hiring, development, promotion and retention of talent at JPMorgan Chase. Launched in 2014, our Blueprint for Diversity 
& Inclusion toolkit is designed to help managers of teams of all 
sizes understand why diversity and inclusion are critical business priorities. The toolkit provides a practical road map to help managers understand how diversity and inclusion can help them 
achieve their business goals. It includes a business case,  
a self-assessment tool, manager perspectives and best practices  
via a library of videos, a “What You Can Ask/What You Can Do” 
guide to help promote management accountability and an Action Planning Template.
Business Resource Groups
Another way that we support diversity and inclusion is through our Business Resource Groups (BRG), which are inclusive networks that engage employees with common interests to 
use their unique perspectives to advance the firm’s priorities 
in the global marketplace. Our BRGs promote leadership and professional development opportunities for members who serve as active volunteers, advocates and recruiters in our key markets, 
connecting the company’s employees to the unique communities 
BRGs represent. One in every five of our employees is a BRG member. We sponsor and recognize BRGs for their continuing support of our firm’s business goals, diversity strategy, and 
people and talent objectives.
Marianne Lake 
CFO, JPMorgan Chase & Co.Mary Callahan Erdoes CEO, J.P. Morgan  Asset ManagementDEVELOPING TALENT THROUGH OUR 
BLACK EXECUTIVE FORUM
The mission of JPMorgan Chase’s Black Executive Forum 
(BEF) – a long-standing team of senior leaders representing all parts of our businesses – is to help attract, retain, 
mentor and sponsor junior black talent, as well as provide 
recommendations for the continued development and promotion of talented black senior leaders at the firm. One important focus of the BEF is to support the firm’s efforts 
to attract top talent to our summer internship programs. 
Members of the BEF actively engage and mentor summer interns before, during and after the internship period to help students build their professional network and navigate the firm, among other things. In 2014, leaders from the BEF 
launched an effort to expand and raise the level of focus on the 
black community with respect to sourcing, hiring, retention and development, onboarding, engagement and partnerships. Key learnings and outcomes of this effort will be considered and 
applied to the firm’s broader diversity and inclusion efforts.INVESTING IN WOMEN’S SUCCESS
Recognizing that women may face unique challenges at 
work, JPMorgan Chase launched Women on the Move in 2013. As part of the program, led by Asset Management 
CEO Mary Erdoes and Chief Financial Officer Marianne 
Lake, women executives from across the company have traveled to JPMorgan Chase locations in more than 20 cities on six continents, engaging women employees in candid 
conversations about their career and aspirations.
More than 5,000 women have seized these opportunities to 
share their experiences, exchange ideas and take ownership of their professional development. The conversations have 
sparked the creation of mentorship programs for mothers 
and inspired a groundswell of action at the local level. One outcome is that women have formed 70 “Lean In Circles” across the company, inspired by Sheryl Sandberg’s book 
on women’s leadership. These are small professional peer 
groups of women who support one another as they work toward achieving their goals.
In 2015, Women on the Move will bring more men into the 
conversation as allies for women in the workplace and will 
leverage the firm’s philanthropic power to support nonprofit organizations that advocate for the success of women. 
45
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OUR FOCUS AREAS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACHEngaging with Our Stakeholders
By listening to our stakeholders, we 
gain insight into their perspectives and 
the issues that matter to them, which 
helps us develop products, services and policies that are responsive to 
their needs.
 
Engaging with customers, policymakers, nonprofit organizations, employees and shareholders gives us the opportunity to share 
information about our strategy and practices and to deepen  
our relationships. It also makes our company stronger and  better informed. 
In recent years, we have taken a number of steps to implement 
a more systematic and robust approach to engaging our key stakeholders. Our Office of Nonprofit Engagement (ONE) is responsible for coordinating JPMorgan Chase’s relationships with nonprofit organizations, principally those that serve low- and 
moderate-income communities, communities of color and people 
with disabilities. ONE supports the firm’s engagement with these constituents in several ways. Community Advisory Boards (CAB) in our major U.S. markets provide a forum for communication 
between our firm and community stakeholders. CAB members 
help identify community development needs and have the opportunity to raise questions and concerns to JPMorgan Chase executives. In 2014, we added a CAB in three new markets – bringing the total to 14 – and hosted a total of 16 meetings. 
We are looking to foster open dialogue about the firm’s products, 
policies, customer-facing practices and communications, and public policy issues. Our Chase Advisory Panel program connects 
senior JPMorgan Chase leaders with national consumer policy 
groups that are focused on these issues. These structured, semiannual meetings also help us understand the national landscape of consumer financial services and are a platform  to explore areas of potential partnership. 
A great business, fundamentally, is about 
serving customers well. When a company 
takes the time to meet with us – when senior 
decision makers really listen, learn and 
engage – there’s no question that they will be better positioned to meet the needs of our community and, we hope, set the pace for others in the industry.”
Paul Schroeder, Vice President, Programs & Policy, 
American Foundation for the Blind
JPMORGAN CHASE IN 2014:
We engaged with stakeholders representing the 
disability community to explore how our products and services can best meet the needs of low-vision 
and blind customers. One outcome of the dialogue 
is a new partnership with the American Foundation for the Blind to support research on consumer experiences and expectations in this area.
ONE can be reached at one.community@jpmchase.com.
In addition to community and consumer advocacy groups, we engage stakeholders on a range of other environmental and social issues. For example, we are a member of the Ceres Company Network, a leading nonprofit organization that brings businesses and investors together to improve sustainability 
practices and environmental and social risk management in the 
private sector. In 2014, we collaborated with Ceres to convene a dialogue with a group of external stakeholders on the role of the financial services sector in supporting and protecting human 
rights. These conversations with nonprofits, socially responsible 
investors and issue experts have sharpened our approach to due diligence and improved the way we communicate our work.
Through JPMorgan Chase’s pro bono legal program, members of our firm’s Legal department donate their time, expertise and services to support communities, empower families, and advocate for vulnerable individuals and others in need around the world, including military veterans, immigrants, domestic violence victims, senior citizens, and homeless individuals and families. In 2014, 
JPMorgan Chase received the Pillar of Justice award from Appleseed, a nonprofit network of public interest justice centers,  
in recognition for our pro bono legal work.
46
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OUR FOCUS AREAS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACHPolicy Engagement and Political Participation
At JPMorgan Chase, corporate responsibility 
includes a commitment to a healthy, 
transparent democracy and to community 
involvement. Because of the impact public policy can have on our businesses, employees, 
communities and customers, we regularly 
engage with policymakers to advance the long-term interests of our company. 
As part of this engagement, we participate in a number of trade associations. 
We disclose publicly all U.S. federal lobbying costs – those paid directly, as as well as indirectly through trade associations – and the issues to which our 
lobbying efforts relate, as required by the Lobbying Disclosure Act and the 
EU Transparency Register. We also disclose state and local lobbying costs as required by law. When we make payments to trade organizations, including membership fees and dues, we restrict these organizations from using our 
funds for any election-related activity.
POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS
Our policies prohibit the use of corporate funds to make contributions to 
candidates, political party committees and political action committees (PAC) or to fund independent political expenditures. Contributions by the firm’s 
PACs – which are supported entirely by voluntary employee contributions – 
support candidates, parties or committees whose views on specific issues  are consistent with our firm’s priorities.
The firm, from time to time, may use corporate funds to support or oppose 
state or local ballot initiatives that affect our business. The firm does not use corporate funds to make contributions to section 527 organizations.
Our website – www.jpmorganchase.com/PoliticalActivities – provides 
additional details about our approach, compliance and oversight structure, 
and disclosures on political contributions, including:
• Principal trade associations to which we belong
• Political action committee activity
• Section 527 organizations
• State ballot initiatives
• Section 501(c)(4) organizationsJPMORGAN CHASE’S PUBLIC  
POLICY PRIORITIES
ECONOMIC GROWTH AND COMPETITIVENESS
•  Access to capital for job creation, public 
investment and community development
• Small business lending
• Federal and state fiscal issues
• Corporate tax issues
• Trade and market access
• Cybersecurity and privacy
• Military and veterans initiatives 
 
 
STRONG AND SECURE CAPITAL MARKETS
• Global regulatory reform
• Capital and liquidity
• International harmonization
• Bank structure and resolution 
 
 
CONSUMER ISSUES
• Consumer credit availability
• Federal and state housing and mortgage issues
• Consumer-focused product innovation
• Payments issues
• Consumer financial empowerment
• Transparency and disclosures 
 
 
47
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OUR FOCUS AREAS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACHCulture, Governance and Controls
Outstanding people, strong leadership, and 
effective governance and controls are the 
foundation of our success.
 
The company has set high corporate standards, and, under the leadership of our Board and management, we are committed to creating an environment 
in which all our people operate with integrity, fairness and accountability.
Over the past few years, we have undertaken a significant effort to examine 
how we can more rigorously and consistently adhere to the high ethical 
standards our shareholders, regulators and others expect of us and that we 
have for ourselves. That includes setting and clearly articulating business principles, ensuring sound governance and the right tone from the top, having in place strong leadership and management processes, and providing a management development and compensation framework that properly 
incentivizes appropriate behaviors. Taken together, these efforts represent 
our recommitment to the company’s culture and reflect the long-term approach we are taking to enhance it.
OUR CONTROL ENVIRONMENT
Over the past several years, our control agenda has been a top priority. This commitment is evidenced by fundamental changes that have been implemented across the company to enhance governance and oversight 
of our control environment and to simplify and appropriately de-risk our 
operations, as well as to support the substantial additional investments  in financial and human capital dedicated to these efforts. 
From 2012 through 2014, more than 16,000 employees were added to 
support our regulatory, compliance and control efforts across the entire company, and $2 billion more was spent in 2014 than in 2012 for additional expenses on regulatory and control issues. As part of these efforts, we have implemented training and education programs that have touched every one 
of our roughly 240,000 people working in 60 countries and 2,100 U.S. cities.
JPMORGAN CHASE IN 2014:
Published an extensive report – “How We Do 
Business – The Report,” – that describes our efforts to strengthen our control environment, 
as well as many other topics related to how we 
do business. The report was initiated in response to a request by a shareholder group led by The Sisters of Charity of Saint Elizabeth, a member of 
the Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility, 
and was prepared under the direction of our Operating Committee and the Board of Directors’ 
Corporate Governance & Nominating Committee. 
The report is available online at  
www.jpmorganchase.com/HowWeDoBusiness.JPMORGAN CHASE BUSINESS PRINCIPLES 
EXCEPTIONAL CLIENT SERVICE 
1. F ocus on the customer 
2.  Be field and clien t driven and operate at  
the local level 
3.   Build w orld-class franchises, investing for the 
long term, to serve our clients 
OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE 
4.  Set the highest standar ds of performance 
5.   Demand financial rigor and risk discipline: 
We will always maintain a fortress  
balance sheet 
6.   S trive for the best internal governance  
and controls 
7.  A ct and think like owners and partners 
8.   S trive to build and maintain the best,  
most efficient systems and operations 
9.  Be disciplined in e verything we do 
10. Ex ecute with both skill and urgency 
A COMMITMENT TO INTEGRITY, FAIRNESS AND RESPONSIBILITY 
11. Do not c ompromise our integrity 
12. Face facts 
13. Have fortitude 
14.  F oster an environment of respect, 
inclusiveness, humanity and humility 
15.  Help str engthen the communities in  
which we live and work
 
A GREAT TEAM AND WINNING CULTURE 
16.  Hir e, train and retain great, diverse 
employees 
17.  Build teamw ork, loyalty and morale 
18.  Main tain an open, entrepreneurial 
meritocracy for all 
19.  C ommunicate honestly, clearly and 
consistently 
20. S trive to be good leaders
48
JPMORGAN CHASE Corporate Responsibility Report 2014OUR FOCUS AREAS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACHAbout This Report
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE: JPM) is a leading global financial services firm with assets of $2.6 trillion and 
operations worldwide. The firm is a leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers and small businesses, commercial banking, financial transaction processing and asset management.
JPMorgan Chase
Consumer Businesses Wholesale Businesses
Consumer & Community Banking Corporate &  
Investment BankCommercial 
BankingAsset
Management
Consumer & 
Business  
BankingMortgage Banking Card, Merchant 
Services  
& AutoBanking Markets &  
Investor Services• Middle Market 
Banking
• Corporate Client Banking
• Commercial Term Lending
• Real Estate Banking• Global Investment 
Management
• Global Wealth 
Management• Consumer Banking
• Business Banking
• Chase Wealth Management• Mortgage Production
• Mortgage Servicing
• Real Estate Portfolios• Card Services – Credit Card 
–  Merchant 
Services
• Auto & Student• Investment Banking
• Treasury Services
• Lending• Fixed Income Markets
• Equity Markets
• Securities Services
• Credit Adjustments & 
OtherJPMorgan Chase reports annually on our corporate responsibility performance.  
This report covers the period January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014 though, in  
some instances, information from 2015 and prior years is included where relevant. 
Our previous Corporate Responsibility Report was published in May 2014. Reporting and 
performance data include information on JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its subsidiaries. 
We have published a Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index and appendix on our website to  
provide interested stakeholders with additional information and JPMorgan Chase performance data (see Appendix A), as well as a list of sources for the third-party data cited throughout our report (see Appendix B). We also have produced a summary of our 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report, 
available in PDF format on our website. See www.jpmorganchase.com/CorporateResponsibility .
For complete financial and organizational information, please also see our 2014 Annual Report.  
It is available at www.jpmorganchase.com/AR2014.
We developed this report and online index following the GRI G3.1 reporting framework, including 
the Financial Services Sector Supplement. We are self-declaring at a B application level. CONTACT
To contact the Office of Corporate Responsibility, email:  
corporate.responsibility@
jpmchase.com.
About JPMorgan Chase
A component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, JPMorgan Chase & Co. serves millions 
of consumers in the United 
States and many of the world’s most prominent corporate, institutional and government 
clients under its J.P. Morgan 
and Chase brands. Information about J.P. Morgan’s capabilities can be found at www.jpmorgan.
com and about Chase’s 
capabilities at www.chase.com. Information about JPMorgan Chase & Co. is available at www.jpmorganchase.com.
“JPMorgan Chase,” “J.P. Morgan,” “Chase,” the Octagon symbol and other words or symbols in this report that identify JPMorgan Chase services are service marks of JPMorgan Chase & Co. Other words or symbols in this report that identify other 
parties’ goods or services may be trademarks or service marks of those other parties.
©2015 JPMorgan Chase & Co. All rights reserved. OUR FOCUS AREAS ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACH OPERATING RESPONSIBLYCorporate Responsibility at JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
What’s Ahead
We will expand our research by 
launching Global City Profiles 
of Johannesburg, Santiago and 
Stockholm and bring together 
leaders in Brisbane, Singapore 
and Sydney.EXPANDING NEW 
SKILLS AT WORK 
We will expand our New 
Skills at Work initiative to 
China, India, Mexico and the 
Middle East, where workforce 
development will be critical 
in helping citizens in those 
countries play a role in 
economic expansion.ADVANCING OUR 
PARTNERSHIP 
WITH THE URBAN 
INSTITUTE
The Urban Institute will draw 
upon its deep policy expertise to 
assess and further strengthen 
our corporate responsibility 
programs, as well as produce 
independent, publicly available 
research to inform and advance 
solutions broadly.
LAUNCHING THE 
JPMORGAN CHASE 
INSTITUTE 
The new Institute will leverage 
the unique assets of JPMorgan 
Chase, including our market 
access, real-time data and 
intellectual capital to provide 
cutting-edge analysis on global 
economic topics such as the 
financial behavior of individuals, 
small business investment, and 
global trade and capital flows.
ANNOUNCING 
THE FIRST CLASS 
OF FINANCIAL 
SOLUTIONS LAB 
WINNERSThe Financial Solutions Lab will choose its first 
class of winners – social entrepreneurs and 
nonprofits who are using technology to improve 
the financial health of low- and moderate-
income families – and the Lab will launch new 
competitions to support promising innovators and 
share best practices using our global platform.EXTENDING THE 
GLOBAL CITIES 
INITIATIVE
2015
AND BEYONDcommunities
clients
customers
employees
veterans
nonprofits
business owners
schools
hospitals
local governments