CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | MAY 2017
MODEL FOR  
IMPACT
How JPMorgan Chase is driving 
inclusive growth and helping more 
people share in the rewards of a 
growing economy
IN DETROIT — AND BEYOND  
Jobs and  
Skills 
Arming workers with the skills  
for today’s well-paying jobs Small Business 
Expansion 
Building capital bridges for 
underserved entrepreneurs  Neighborhood 
Revitalization  
Spreading prosperity  
beyond the urban core  Financial  
Health 
Unlocking innovation to  
help struggling consumers26
18149
26 22Corporate Responsibility Report 
CONTENTSMay 2017
1  WELCOME   
by Peter L. Scher, Head of Corporate Responsibility  
and Chairman of the Greater Washington Region, 
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
2   PRIVATE ENTERPRISE FOR PUBLIC GOOD   
by Jamie Dimon, Chairman and CEO,  
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
4  MODEL FOR IMPACT   
Our approach to delivering maximum  
impact in communities
Detroit: Proof  of  Concept
6   A COMEBACK FOR ALL   
Detroit’s mayor on partnerships, the private  
sector and progress
9   INVESTED IN DETROIT   
Proof of concept of our model for driving  
inclusive growth
14   BUILDING CAPACITY  
ON THE GROUND   
Strengthening the systems needed to  
deliver lasting change
16   DECODING DATA   
Arming Detroit’s leaders with data to drive progress 
18   RETOOLING DETROIT’S WORKFORCE  
Creating opportunity by building in-demand job skills 
22  SUPPORTING INCLUSIVE 
ENTREPRENEURSHIP  
How supporting small business is crucial for 
empowering communities 
26   NO NEIGHBORHOOD LEFT BEHIND  
Why it’s essential to spread prosperity beyond the 
urban core
30   BRINGING A STRONG FINANCIAL 
FOUNDATION TO DETROIT  
Innovative models for boosting financial health
Beyond Detroit: Model in Action
34  PREPARING THE NEXT GENERATION  
OF WORKERS  
Mayors of Denver and New Orleans on arming  
young people to succeed
36  NEW SKILLS FOR YOUTH  
Transforming career and technical education 
37  NEW SKILLS AT WORK  
Providing pathways to opportunity
38  SMALL BUSINESS FORWARD   
Expanding access to capital for  
underserved entrepreneurs 
40  PRO NEIGHBORHOODS  
Creating prosperous neighborhoods
41 FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS LAB   
 Unlocking innovation to improve financial health
42  EAST LONDON RISING   
Applying strategies for inclusive growth
44 THE BIG PICTURE   
  What builds the strongest bonds between businesses 
and the communities they serve?Learn more about JPMorgan Chase’s corporate responsibility work in 
communities around the world at www.jpmorganchase.com/ cr
CONTRIBUTORS
Janis Bowdler  Head of Small Business and Community Development Initiatives, 
Global Philanthropy, JPMorgan Chase & Co. | John Carter  Chase Michigan Market 
President, JPMorgan Chase & Co. | Stephen M. Cutler  Executive Vice President 
and Vice Chairman, JPMorgan Chase & Co. | Jamie Dimon  Chairman and CEO, 
JPMorgan Chase & Co. | Mike Duggan  Mayor of Detroit | Sally Durdan  Head 
of Strategy, Chase Consumer & Community Banking | Nely Galán  Producer, 
Entrepreneur and Author | Dan Gilbert  Founder and Chairman, Quicken 
Loans & Rock Ventures | Michael B. Hancock  Mayor of Denver | LeBron James  
Founder, LeBron James Family Foundation | Beverly Johnson  Model, Actress and 
Businesswoman | Karen Persichilli Keogh  Head of Global Philanthropy, JPMorgan 
Chase & Co. | Sadiq Khan  Mayor of London | Mitchell J. Landrieu  Mayor of New 
Orleans | Chauncy Lennon  Head of Workforce Initiatives, JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
Mel Martinez  Chairman of the Southeast U.S. and Latin America Regions, 
JPMorgan Chase & Co. | Gail J. McGovern  President and CEO, American Red Cross   
Janet Murguía  President and CEO, National Council of La Raza |  Jerry Paffendorf  
CEO and Co-Founder, Loveland Technologies | Jacques Panis  President, Shinola  
Michael Porter  Bishop William Lawrence University Professor, Harvard Business 
School | Vis Raghavan  Deputy CEO for EMEA, JPMorgan Chase & Co. | Virginia M. 
Rometty  Chairman, President and CEO, IBM Corporation | Peter L. Scher  Head 
of Corporate Responsibility and Chairman of the Greater Washington Region, 
JPMorgan Chase & Co. | Sarah Rosen Wartell  President, Urban Institute | Chris 
Wheat  Director of Business Research, JPMorgan Chase Institute
EDITORS
Amanda Eversole  Head of Public Affairs | Su-Lin Cheng Nichols  Executive Editor  
Ibadet Reller  Editor | Frank Thomas  EditorWELCOME
PETER L. SCHER
Too many people are being shut out of the rewards 
of a growing economy, and the frustration and 
disillusionment that follow have had deep and far-
reaching impacts. Creating greater economic opportunity 
must be a responsibility and an imperative for all of us. 
During the past five years, my colleagues and I at 
JPMorgan Chase have undertaken significant long-term 
initiatives focused on this imperative. We’re targeting  
a limited number of areas where we believe we can  
have the greatest impact. While we deployed 
approximately $250 million globally in 2016 toward 
these efforts, we know that money alone won’t solve 
these challenges. Instead, our mantra has become, “Work 
the problem.” That means understanding precisely the 
social or economic challenge we’re trying to address and 
deploying the skills, expertise, data, relationships and 
resources that contribute to positive outcomes. 
We have too often seen well-intentioned money — both 
public and private — fail to result in long-term impact. 
So a critical and deliberate part of our strategy is 
strengthening the underlying organizations and systems 
that are needed to empower communities to deliver and 
sustain change. 
Our work around the world has made two things clear. 
The first is that there are some universal drivers of 
inclusive growth, which include workforce development 
— getting more people the skills they need to succeed in 
today’s economy — small business expansion, financial health and neighborhood revitalization. 
The second is that making real impact 
requires the private sector to play a much 
more active role. Companies must leverage 
their unique assets to help solve problems 
— not simply give away money and hope 
for the best. 
Three years ago in Detroit we launched 
our most comprehensive initiative to date, 
which we view as “proof of concept” of 
our firm’s model. We have made Detroit 
the focus of our Corporate Responsibility 
Report this year because it provides insights 
that are informing our efforts elsewhere. 
While our primary focus is Detroit, we also 
showcase examples of our model at work 
beyond Detroit.
Our work in Detroit has also yielded lessons 
that we think can be instructive for others. 
Chief among these is the need to bring an innovation 
mindset and a willingness to adjust. For example, we 
initially focused on incubators to drive small business 
growth, but it became clear that we could have greater 
impact by providing minority entrepreneurs with much-
needed capital. As a result, we shifted our strategy. With 
data from the JPMorgan Chase Institute showing that local 
spending at small businesses has grown faster in Detroit 
than in other major cities we track, we are confident we 
are now focused where we can best move the needle. 
We’ve since expanded this approach to small businesses  
in other communities. 
Equally important, we’ve learned firsthand the power 
and necessity of collaboration. Detroit’s turnaround has 
been possible only because government, businesses and 
nonprofits all came to the table and asked, “What value 
can each of us provide to solve these challenges?”
The model JPMorgan Chase put into practice in  
Detroit is making a real impact, but as we learn more 
about what’s most effective, we continue to refine 
it. I hope the lessons we have learned in Detroit 
and elsewhere around the world can help spark a 
conversation across all sectors about better  
approaches to solving our challenges and creating 
greater economic opportunity for all. 
Peter L. Scher, Head of Corporate Responsibility  
and Chairman of the Greater Washington Region, 
JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
JPMORGAN CHASE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
1PRIVATE
FOR PUBLIC GOODJamie DimonINTRODUCTIONPRIVATE ENTERPRISE FOR PUBLIC GOOD
JAMIE DIMON
2 www.jpmorganchase.com/crPrivate enterprise has shown 
an unparalleled capacity 
to generate prosperity and 
produce goods and services 
that meet people’s needs  
and improve their lives. 
Jamie Dimon at a Bloomberg  
Businessweek forum in Detroit. The net result is that too many people 
are not getting a fair shot at getting 
ahead. Clearly, the private sector 
cannot solve this alone, but it is 
uniquely positioned to contribute by 
driving economic growth and creating 
more opportunity.
The private sector’s ability to be a 
positive force extends well beyond 
the four walls of our firms. Companies 
can actively leverage the capacity of 
their core business to strengthen the 
communities where they operate. 
This will look different for different 
companies, of course, but every 
enterprise can and should do its 
part. As a bank, JPMorgan Chase’s societal value 
proposition is clear: We enable and catalyze economic 
growth by providing the capital that businesses, 
government and nonprofits need to expand, create 
jobs and fulfill their vital missions. 
Our firm has also always supported our communities 
through philanthropy, another important tool the 
private sector can apply to make a difference. But 
over many years of giving, we have refined our 
approach to more fully draw on and leverage all 
of our resources. Our model combines financial 
commitments with capable partners, evidence-based 
solutions and direct investments of our people’s time 
and expertise. 
We are using this model to help solve critical social 
and economic challenges. For example, we are 
investing $325 million in career-oriented education 
to help young people and adults develop the skills 
they need to get on a stable career path and move  
up the economic ladder. We are putting the model 
into practice in Detroit where, alongside our  
$100 million philanthropic investment, we are 
directly leveraging our firm’s expertise in areas  
such as community development, small business 
lending and workforce readiness to help support  
and accelerate the city’s turnaround.
Reducing inequality, creating well-paying jobs, 
supporting vibrant and resilient communities — all 
these challenges are as daunting as they are essential 
to address. But by harnessing the unique capabilities 
of the private sector, alongside the nonprofit and 
public sectors, I believe we can drive the change at  
the scale and pace our communities deserve. 
Jamie Dimon , Chairman and CEO,  
JPMorgan Chase & Co. The same attributes that drive business success — 
innovation, ingenuity and the ability to efficiently 
marshal human and financial capital — also offer 
tremendous promise to help solve pressing  
societal challenges.
The private sector has not only a moral obligation 
but also a deeply vested interest in delivering on this 
potential for public good. Why? Because businesses 
cannot outgrow the economy of their communities.      
The private sector plays an essential and positive role 
in society — and it is one we should embrace. Of the 
145 million people who work in the United States, 
125 million of them work for private enterprise. 
It is the private sector that generates the jobs and 
economic growth that fuel progress, underpin 
opportunity and support the critical public services 
on which we all depend. 
Like other businesses, JPMorgan Chase creates 
opportunities through jobs, fair wages and benefits 
and investing in our 240,000 employees around the 
world. Starting in February 2017, as part of a three-
year plan, we began to raise the minimum salary 
of our U.S. employees to between $12 and $16.50 
an hour, up from $10.15 an hour. This pay increase 
impacts 18,000 of our bank tellers, customer service 
representatives and other hardworking employees 
across the country. Giving these individuals a raise 
is both the smart thing to do — it helps our firm 
attract and retain talented people in a competitive 
environment — and the right thing to do. Wages for 
too many Americans have gone nowhere for too long.
Indeed, from stagnating wages and growing income 
inequality to a lack of quality education and failure to 
arm our young people with job skills, there are clear 
signs that many of our communities are struggling.  
 
JPMORGAN CHASE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
3  MODEL
MODEL FOR  IMPACT
JPMorgan Chase believes more 
people should have access to 
opportunity and the chance to 
move up the economic ladder, 
particularly in the world’s cities, 
where the benefits of revitalization 
are not reaching everyone.  
To achieve this mission,  
we have reimagined our 
approach to corporate 
responsibility: We 
combine a data-
driven, strategic focus 
with what we believe 
are the essential inputs 
for creating lasting impact 
in our communities. This 
model is yielding real results, and 
we hope it can serve as a template 
for others seeking to address social 
and economic challenges. 
Our global initiatives are focused 
on the key drivers of inclusive 
growth, and we are making big, 
long-term bets that directly 
leverage our firm’s worldwide 
presence, talent and resources.OUR MISSION:  
INCLUSIVE  
GROWTHLEVERAGING OUR  
CORE BUSINESS 
Deploying capital, providing  
credit and applying our  
expertise to enable local 
economic development.
JOBS AND SKILLS
Helping people develop the skills  
they need to compete for today’s  
jobs can transform lives and  
strengthen economies.
DELIVERING DATA  
AND ANALYSIS
Harnessing the power of data  
and our firm’s insights into  
the global economy. 
INVESTING 
PHILANTHROPIC CAPITAL
Making long-term  
investments to test and scale 
innovative programs. FINANCIAL HEALTHProviding individuals with the tools and resources to manage their daily financial 
lives stabilizes households and benefits 
local economies. 
NEIGHBORHOOD REVITALIZATIONSMALL BUSINESS EXPANSION
4
www.jpmorganchase.com/cr  
PROVIDING SKILLS  
AND EXPERTISE
Putting the capabilities of  
our firm and the knowledge  
of our people to work for  
our communities.  
To enable 
more people 
to share in 
the rewards 
of a growing 
economy.JOBS AND SKILLS
FINANCIAL HEALTH
BUILDING CAPACITY 
Strengthening the nonprofit 
sector and the underlying  
systems needed to support 
sustainable change. FOSTERING 
COLLABORATION
Forging partnerships among 
businesses, government  
and nonprofits to solve  
complex problems. 
NEIGHBORHOOD REVITALIZATION
To thrive, communities need investment beyond the urban core to create 
neighborhoods where diverse individuals and families at all income levels can live.    TEST, LEARN, ITERATE 
We continually iterate as 
we test new approaches 
and learn more about 
what works best. SMALL BUSINESS EXPANSIONSmall businesses and entrepreneurs 
generate jobs, create diverse 
communities and are vital to 
 prosperous cities.
AN INTEGRATED AND 
SUSTAINABLE APPROACH
Creating more widely 
shared prosperity 
depends on addressing 
the drivers of inclusive 
growth in an integrated 
way and strengthening 
the underlying systems 
needed to deliver 
sustainable change.
JPMORGAN CHASE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
5MODEL IN ACTION
FOSTERING COLLABORATION
Mike Duggan
Since 2014 Duggan has been 
mayor of Detroit, where he 
governs his hometown and 
collaborates with others to  
solve some of the city’s most 
vexing issues.Karen Persichilli Keogh 
Karen is head of global 
philanthropy at JPMorgan  
Chase & Co., where she  
oversees the bank’s global 
philanthropic investments  
to drive inclusive growth.
A Conversation with Detroit Mayor Mike Duggan  
A Comeback  
for All
JPMorgan Chase’s Karen Persichilli Keogh  talked 
with Mayor Duggan  about how to create inclusive 
economic growth in Detroit so that both longtime 
residents and newcomers can thrive.  Karen Persichilli Keogh:  How is Detroit helping 
ensure that its recovery translates into economic 
opportunities for all Detroiters?  
Mayor Mike Duggan:  We are building a city where 
everyone who lives and works in Detroit is included 
in the comeback. Everything we do — from creating 
a trained workforce to revitalizing neighborhoods 
to developing housing — is focused on a strategy of 
inclusive growth that strengthens the economy while 
protecting existing residents. This is the only way 
that we’ll achieve long-term success. Through the 
hard work of our team, the help of our partners and 
the willingness of our residents, we are making great 
strides in creating more opportunity for more people. 
KPK: I know you have made small business 
growth a priority . How does that tie into the 
larger inclusive growth strategy? 
MD: We have a number of programs to deliver 
longtime Detroiters and people of color access 
to funds to make sure they can participate in the 
growth. This includes Motor City Match, which gives 
entrepreneurs $50,000 to start a business, as well 
as the Entrepreneurs of Color Fund, which provides 
capital for minority businesses. These and other 
programs have been huge drivers for inclusive small 
business growth. We now have a culture in this city 
where new business owners know there is a whole 
range of resources available to them.  
6
www.jpmorganchase.com/crKPK: What is the key to more 
economic opportunity for Detroit’s 
youth?
MD:  I’m a great believer that talent is 
distributed evenly across this country, 
but what isn’t distributed equally is 
opportunity. Our young people aren’t 
getting enough opportunity in schools and 
not enough opportunity in jobs. But if we 
don’t give our youth a good education and 
the skills to work, we won’t fundamentally 
change the trajectory of the city. There is 
no shortcut. We need to keep on creating 
paths of opportunity to make sure this 
recovery benefits everybody.    
KPK: How are you creating  
these paths?
MD:  We’ve kicked off Detroit Promise, 
where every student in Detroit public 
schools has two years of community 
college guaranteed. And we are very 
close to our goal of placing 8,000 Detroit 
youths into summer employment through 
our youth program, Grow Detroit’s Young 
Talent. Many of these kids have never had 
a paycheck or don’t know how to dress 
for work. But by the end of the summer, 
they’ll have a bank account and a good 
sense of what a particular job requires. 
When it comes to our workforce, we are 
focusing on job training for people who 
are willing to work hard and get training 
for jobs that we actually need in this city. 
We are making progress: There are more 
people in Detroit working today than a 
year ago.KPK: I know you are a metrics-driven 
leader. How are you using data to 
support the city’s recovery? 
MD:  Everything we do is data driven. 
On the blight side, the technology that 
we have is pretty remarkable. There are 
about 350,000 parcels of land in the city 
of Detroit, and we know the condition 
of every one of them — whether it’s an 
occupied house, a vacant house or a 
vacant lot. With this knowledge, we can 
move systematically with our demolition 
program. Another example is workforce: 
Through data, we know that there is a 
shortage of certain jobs such as coders, 
MRI and CT techs and the skilled trades. 
We have actually catalogued the jobs that 
someone with a high school degree and 
with additional training can be hired for 
and paid a good wage.
KPK: You ran on the campaign “Every 
Neighborhood Has a Future.” How 
are you implementing that vision?
MD:  We have a vision of inclusive 
growth in Detroit’s neighborhoods based 
on building out from zones of density. 
We’ve taken the most densely populated 
neighborhoods and demolished burned-
out homes and sold lots to people who 
are renovating them, planting gardens 
and putting in swing sets. We are creating 
“20-minute neighborhoods” that focus 
on filling in vacant apartment buildings, 
creating retail spaces in main corridors 
and building greenways to create 
communities where people can walk or 
bike to everything they need. We can’t 
compete with the suburbs, and we don’t 
want to. A huge segment of millennials 
want to be in urban environments  
where they are closely connected  
with other people. KPK: What is the role of  the private 
sector in helping address issues facing 
communities like Detroit?
MD:  We can’t rebuild Detroit with 
city government alone. In an age of 
constricted municipal budgets, public-
private partnerships are essential in 
addressing our most pressing needs. We 
have been extremely lucky with a number 
of corporate partners helping out with 
Detroit’s recovery in critical areas such as 
housing and technology. And we welcome 
private companies that open businesses, 
create jobs and become engaged in civic 
affairs. The catalytic effect of investment 
in this city cannot be overstated. 
JPMorgan Chase has set an example that 
investing in communities like Detroit 
brings strong social and capital returns.
KPK: How will you know when you 
have succeeded in achieving your 
vision for Detroit? 
MD:  Things are getting better and people 
believe in the future, but we still have a 
long way to go. The population of Detroit 
has dropped every year for 60 years. 
When you are heading in the wrong 
direction, residents and businesses move 
out. When you are doing the right thing, 
people move here and stay. I will know 
we have succeeded when we reverse 
population decline in the city. 
“Everything we do — from creating a trained 
workforce to revitalizing neighborhoods, to 
developing housing — is focused on a strategy 
of  inclusive growth that strengthens the 
economy while protecting existing residents.”
Mike Duggan, Mayor of  Detroit
JPMORGAN CHASE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
7MODEL IN ACTION
Angel Paris, owner of Power, Lighting and Technical 
Services in Detroit, used support from the Entrepreneurs 
of Color Fund to help expand into a new facility.Proof  of  
Concept
We view our work in Detroit as “proof  of  
concept” of  our firm’s strategy for helping more 
people move up the economic ladder and share 
in the rewards of  a growing economy . 
Our efforts around the world have made clear to us that there 
are some key drivers of inclusive growth — and that they are 
as equally true in Detroit as they are in all cities. They include 
arming people with the skills needed for today’s high-quality 
jobs, providing small businesses — particularly minority-owned 
and community-based ones — with the capital and resources 
they need to succeed, investing in community development 
that revitalizes not only urban cores but also surrounding 
neighborhoods and giving households the tools and resources  
to manage their financial health. 
We believe that, taken together, these are the pillars of 
opportunity. When we address them in an integrated and 
data-driven way, we lay the foundation for more widespread 
prosperity. It is a model that is making a real impact in  
Detroit — and it is one that can be equally effective in cities 
around the world.INVESTED IN DETROIT
8
www.jpmorganchase.com/crInvested in Detroit
By John Carter  
Chase Michigan  
Market President,  
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
As a proud Detroiter, I am deeply cognizant 
of Detroit’s place in history. The Arsenal of 
Democracy. Birthplace of the automobile. 
Central site in the civil rights movement. 
Home of Motown. And the list goes on. This 
heritage fuels the pride of all of us who 
live and work here, even when our city has 
struggled. It is also part of what inspired 
JPMorgan Chase to commit $100 million 
— the largest corporate philanthropic 
investment ever made in Detroit — to 
support and accelerate the city’s recovery.
JPMORGAN CHASE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
9Students at Focus: HOPE work on computer repair as 
part of an information technology training course.
Participants in a Goodwill Industries program 
gain workplace skills and technical training at 
an automotive supplies facility. 
MODEL IN ACTION
INVESTED IN DETROIT
JPMorgan Chase’s history in Detroit dates back 
more than 80 years — 35 of which I have been 
with the firm — starting with our predecessor, 
National Bank of Detroit.
Throughout that time, JPMorgan Chase has 
supported local nonprofits and been a part of the 
city’s civic life. In 2014, however, we dramatically 
expanded our commitment to the city with the 
launch of our Invested in Detroit initiative. We 
pledged $50 million to fund and catalyze
further investment in housing, commercial and
manufacturing projects across the city. We also 
pledged another $50 million to strengthen the 
city’s workforce system, support small business
growth — especially for minority and women
entrepreneurs — stabilize neighborhoods and
support other transformative investments.
We placed this big bet on Detroit’s turnaround not 
only because we saw a need but also because we saw 
an unprecedented spirit of engagement, cooperation 
and commitment among the city’s leaders, business 
community and nonprofit sector. With these conditions 
in place, we believed the right kind of commitment by 
our company could make a real difference.
We also knew that we had more we could offer 
the city than financial resources alone. The fact is, 
JPMorgan Chase does not believe in just writing 
checks; rather, we put the weight of all our resources 
— data, technology and our people’s deep expertise, 
market knowledge and relationships — behind our 
efforts to catalyze inclusive growth and expand access 
to opportunity. And we focus our efforts where we 
can best put our firm’s unique skills and competencies 
to work to advance this agenda. This is exactly what 
we are doing in Detroit.
10
www.jpmorganchase.com/crStudents work on a summer farming project as part of 
Detroit’s youth employment program.  
In Detroit, we saw an opportunity and a need to 
bring together our full range of efforts in our most 
comprehensive philanthropic initiative to date. 
We know that the drivers of inclusive growth are 
fundamentally linked, so moving the needle of 
opportunity in Detroit requires addressing all of  
them in an integrated way.   
Similarly, we know that the challenges facing the 
city are complex and interconnected. Meaningfully 
addressing them, then, demands a thoughtful, 
holistic and collaborative approach. Take blight, for 
example. We recognized that identifying, removing 
and rehabilitating blighted properties — a critical and 
massive task in and of itself — had to be just one part  
of a larger and more integrated strategy to stabilize  
and revitalize Detroit’s neighborhoods. We also saw  
that blight removal efforts could be leveraged to 
provide economic opportunities for Detroit’s residents. 
As a result, our firm is making coordinated investments 
across the range of elements that must come 
together to create livable, inclusive and sustainable 
neighborhoods. This includes support for blight-
mitigation organizations, such as the Motor City 
Mapping project. It also includes creating and seeding 
innovative financing models to help homebuyers 
buy and rehabilitate blighted homes, such as our 
collaboration with Liberty Bank. But we know that 
addressing the physical landscape alone isn’t enough.DETROIT AS 
A STARTUP
By Jerry Paffendorf,  
CEO and Co-Founder,  
Loveland Technologies 
With scarce resources and big challenges 
in our city , Detroiters have had no choice 
but to take risks and try new things. 
And when that doesn’t work, we try 
something else.  
It’s similar to the “innovate-test-iterate” mindset inherent 
in technology startups. More and more, I am seeing 
this mindset applied across Detroit, not only by fellow 
entrepreneurs but also in the public sector. I see this spirit 
as well in the way JPMorgan Chase has approached its 
partnership with Loveland. It’s brought a willingness to 
give new ideas a shot and quickly adjust as we all learn 
more about what works and what doesn’t. 
My company’s story illustrates what this iterative process 
looks like in practice. We got our start trying to build 
a community around a vacant lot by inviting people to 
buy one-inch parcels through a website we created. In 
the process, we learned that no one actually knew what 
was out there in terms of the city’s vacant and blighted 
properties. Eventually, that effort evolved into the Motor 
City Mapping Project. Now, based on the success we’ve 
had in Detroit and what we’ve learned there — and with 
the support of JPMorgan Chase as we continue to explore 
new markets and expand our work — we’re taking the 
approach to other cities around the country. 
 
Not that any of us wants 
to fail, of course, but 
there are benefits to 
sticking with something 
long enough to find 
solutions. That was what 
we did at Loveland. Even as we “failed” our way forward, 
we determinedly stayed focused on our core issue: 
understanding land use and how it contributes to the life 
or death of neighborhoods.
Applying a startup mentality to solving Detroit’s 
challenges means taking the best of the rapid-fire 
“innovate-test-iterate” cycle and bridging it with a vision 
for creating long-term change. JPMorgan Chase provides 
that kind of bridge: patient capital for innovative solutions 
to deep problems. In the tech industry we 
often tout the “fail fast” 
mantra, but I prefer 
“fail slowly.” 
JPMORGAN CHASE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
11New construction projects across the city require 
skilled workers. A master electrician’s apprentice 
installs lighting in the New Center neighborhood.
MODEL IN ACTION
INVESTED IN DETROIT
“The challenges that batter our 
cities and communities — poverty , 
income disparities, structural racism, 
disinvestment — far exceed the capacity 
of  any individual actor. This has been 
vividly apparent in Detroit. When once 
dependable business and civic players 
retreated in the face of  economic turmoil 
and municipal frailty , philanthropy stepped 
in. We collaborated with an array of  
partners to invest in the civic scaffolding 
of  neighborhoods, transportation 
infrastructure, anchor institutions, 
economic development and arts and 
culture until the public and private sectors 
could resume their rightful roles. In the 
wake of  that experience, we find this cross-
sectoral, cross-discipline approach too 
effective to be reserved for crisis. This is 
the way we must continue to forge ahead.” 
Rip Rapson, President and CEO,  
The Kresge Foundation
12
www.jpmorganchase.com/crGoodwill Industries’ Flip the Script program provides  
at-risk men and women with a pathway toward  
well-paying jobs with training and workplace skills.
That’s why we are also supporting workforce training 
programs that are arming Detroiters with the skills they need 
for jobs in industries emerging out of the need to transform 
Detroit’s vacant land and remove and renovate its blighted 
structures. It is one of the reasons the Entrepreneurs of Color 
Fund, supported by JPMorgan Chase, offers a contractor line 
of credit to help small businesses in Detroit’s construction 
industry capitalize on the growing demand for their services.
This integrated approach is also driving our support for the 
new Detroit Strategic Neighborhoods Fund, which brings 
together community developers and dedicated resources 
to fuel inclusive development in a targeted group of 
neighborhoods. And it is why we seeded Develop Detroit, the 
city’s first nonprofit real estate development firm focused 
exclusively on creating and preserving affordable housing in  
Detroit’s neighborhoods. 
Finally, our holistic and deep engagement is reflected in the 
Detroit Service Corps. Since 2014, we have sent 68 of our 
most talented employees from around the world to Detroit 
to spend three weeks embedded with our nonprofit partners, 
lending their skills and expertise to help these organizations 
fulfill their critical missions.  
Clearly, there is still much work to be done to ensure Detroit’s 
rising tide lifts the boat for all Detroiters. But the momentum 
is palpable and signs of progress can be seen across the city.
JPMorgan Chase is proud to be a part of Detroit and we are 
deeply invested in its future. INCLUSIVE 
RECOVER Y 
IN DETROIT 
By Sarah Rosen Wartell 
President, Urban Institute 
As Detroit emerges from a decades-  
long economic crisis, its challenge is  
to create not simply a recovery but  
an inclusive recovery .  
This requires a plan for fueling growth that benefits the 
city’s longtime residents, draws on their experiences and 
amplifies their voices. Detroit exemplifies many of the 
crucial elements required to achieve this inclusive vision. 
Success depends on 
partnership across the 
public, nonprofit and 
private sectors. Detroit 
has done this as well as 
any city I have seen, with 
stakeholders across sectors knitting together a strategy 
for renewal. Public-sector officials are partnering with a 
deeply committed philanthropic community and engaged 
business leaders. These three sectors are collaborating to 
create and implement an integrated strategy.
This is hard work. The city and its partners may not 
always get it right at first, but their demonstrated 
commitment will help ensure that Detroit’s recovery is a 
shared recovery. This is part of what is uniquely powerful 
in Detroit: The city’s partners have been willing to make 
the kind of cross-sector investments that will prove 
effective — from small business growth to workforce 
development to affordable housing. 
In partnership with the city, JPMorgan Chase has worked 
to understand the community’s needs and to bring the 
firm’s particular capacity to bear to make a meaningful 
impact. To this end, Urban Institute is bringing 
data and analytics to inform and assess JPMorgan 
Chase’s philanthropic efforts in Detroit. Through this 
collaborative effort, Urban is forming local partnerships 
as well as mining data and experience to provide insights 
that will enhance and advance local conversation and 
generate a wider understanding of major economic and 
social challenges; JPMorgan Chase is incorporating those 
insights to make its programs in Detroit and elsewhere 
even more effective.The story of  Detroit is, 
in many ways, the story 
of  what can be achieved 
through collective effort. 
JPMORGAN CHASE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
13MODEL IN ACTION
BUILDING CAPACITY
BUILDING CAPACITY  ON THE GROUND
BY STEPHEN M. CUTLER, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT  
AND VICE CHAIRMAN, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.
Our work in Detroit started with the same central question that drives 
our efforts in cities around the world: What is the problem we are 
trying to help solve, and what is the best way to do so? 
Answering that starts with 
understanding the nonprofit 
organizations and other institutions 
that are on the ground playing a key 
role in serving their communities. 
We analyze these organizations’ 
strengths, weaknesses and challenges 
with one objective in mind: identifying 
where we can help strengthen 
their capacity and the underlying 
systems needed to support and drive 
sustainable change. 
An equally important part of our 
approach is identifying what unique 
assets and capabilities our firm can 
bring to the table. In some cases,  
part of the solution is additional 
financial resources. In others, 
however, what’s needed is a different 
service delivery model, a novel 
partnership or application of a new 
technology. So we bring the full  
weight of our firm’s assets to bear 
— including our expertise, data, 
technology and relationships. 
Our work in Detroit illustrates this 
comprehensive approach. For 
example, JPMorgan Chase’s experts 
on workforce development closely 
partnered with Detroit’s leaders to 
analyze the city’s workforce system 
and provided valuable data and 
insight into the local labor market 
dynamics. Combining this analysis 
with our similar work in other cities, 
we offered recommendations for 
strengthening the system, which 
helped inform a new direction  
for the Mayor’s Workforce  
Development Board. We are lending this kind of expertise 
in many other ways. Our community 
development bankers are bringing 
leading-edge thinking and extensive 
global experience about how to 
revitalize neighborhoods, while our 
mortgage bankers have worked with 
our partners to develop imaginative 
solutions to the challenges of Detroit’s 
real estate market. The JPMorgan 
Chase Institute is providing unique, 
deeply localized data that sheds light 
on the critical role of Detroit’s small 
business sector. 
The Detroit Service Corps is perhaps 
the most tangible example of this 
multifaceted approach. Through the 
Service Corps, some of our most 
talented employees have spent time 
working on-site with our nonprofit 
partners in Detroit, using their 
expertise to assist with everything 
from strategic and business planning 
to market analysis, financial 
modeling, organizational design 
and marketing (see box). 
Ultimately, greater capacity  
for Detroit’s nonprofits  
means greater opportunity  
for Detroit’s residents — and 
the chance for economic 
growth that brings the  
most people along. 
 
Since 2014, JPMorgan Chase has deployed teams 
of  top-performing employees, putting their skills 
and expertise to work on the ground to help our 
nonprofit partners fulfill their critical missions. 
Time and again, these teams have helped 
accelerate our partners’ ability to impact their 
communities and even fundamentally shift their 
goals and vision. Through hands-on work in the 
communities we serve, Service Corps members 
also have the opportunity to draw new meaning 
and insight about their roles at the firm — and 
in the world. The program, which we started in 
Detroit, is now global. 
As of  November 2016, 
112 employees from 11 countries
 have participated in nine separate 
 Service Corps cohorts, traveling 
to Uberlândia, Mumbai, 
Johannesburg, New Orleans and 
Detroit to dedicate their time and 
skills across 34 projects to help 
nonprofits achieve their missions. 
14
www.jpmorganchase.com/crDEVON BUSKIN, WORKFORCE 
DEVELOPMENT DIRECTORLIONEL BRADFORD, 
 PRESIDENT AND EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Employment rates in Detroit lag far behind the national average. At the same 
time, the city’s post-bankruptcy revitalization has created a number of  new 
employment opportunities in the green infrastructure industry . 
These new jobs are a welcome addition, 
but for some Detroit residents who face 
significant barriers to employment —  
such as the lack of a high school  
diploma, limited literacy or a previous  
incarceration — these opportunities  
can seem out of reach.  
The Greening of Detroit is addressing 
these barriers head-on. Through 
its programs for youth and adults, 
the nonprofit organization provides 
workforce training for jobs in forestry, 
urban agriculture and landscaping. By 
aligning its programs with available jobs, 
the organization boasts a nearly 100 
percent placement rate. Now, with funding 
from JPMorgan Chase’s New Skills at 
Work initiative, The Greening is able to 
significantly expand its proven demand-
driven programs.  
In partnership with Neighborhood 
Services Organization and Focus: HOPE, 
our support helped launch the Detroit 
Conservation Corps in 2016. Through 
the program, participants complete an 
eight-week paid training course that 
results in certification in several areas 
of their choice — such as tree removal 
or landscape maintenance — and then 
placement in well-paying jobs. Through 
the program, The Greening also provides 
training in “soft skills,” such as how  
to dress for an interview, as well as wraparound services including help with  
food, child care and housing assistance. 
The Detroit Conservation Corps is aiming 
to train at least 2,500 adults.
“We are helping to make these folks  
work-ready so they can get into the 
workforce and earn a decent living 
wage,” said Devon Buskin, workforce 
development director, The Greening.
Another highly successful program is 
the Green Corps, an eight-week summer 
youth employment program that provides 
low-income Detroit youth with job training 
and meaningful employment — while 
also ensuring that the trees The Greening 
plants are adequately maintained. Each 
year, the Green Corps provides 250 
summer jobs for high school students. 
JPMorgan Chase’s support for The 
Greening extends well beyond its training 
programs — and illustrates how our firm is 
investing more than dollars to strengthen 
the capacity and long-term sustainability 
of our nonprofit partners. 
For example, as plans to expand The 
Greening’s programs took shape, it 
became clear that the organization was 
facing a physical capacity challenge: It had 
long outgrown its previous office space, 
which required dividing staff, tools and 
vehicles between three different locations. In response, JPMorgan Chase donated 
one of our former branch buildings to 
The Greening. The new building allows 
adequate space for ongoing operations, 
serves as a training hub and acts as an 
anchor for the neighborhood.
In addition, the organization was wrestling 
with how best to ensure its long-term 
financial sustainability. “Like so many 
nonprofits in Detroit, we face a problem 
with getting the administrative dollars 
that we need to keep our organization 
running,” said Lionel Bradford, president 
and executive director, The Greening. One 
possible solution was to develop a fee-for-
service model to offset some of these costs, 
but leaders were not sure if it was feasible. 
Enter the JPMorgan Chase Detroit  
Service Corps. In 2015 a team of 
JPMorgan Chase employees with expertise 
in operations, business plan development 
and financial modeling spent three weeks 
on-site with the team at The Greening, 
helping the organization develop a 
business plan for a new landscaping  
social enterprise program.
“This wasn’t our area of expertise, but 
the Service Corps confirmed for us that 
we were going down the right path,” said  
Bradford. “They came in and put together 
a plan for this, basically showing us how 
to keep our organization sustainable.” 
JPMORGAN CHASE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
15Small Business Share of  
Consumer Spending in DetroitMODEL IN ACTION
58%DELIVERING DATA AND ANALYSIS
DECODING  DATA
By Chris Wheat, Director  
of Business Research,  
JPMorgan Chase InstituteJPMorgan Chase believes deeply in the power of data to advance 
economic progress and expand access to opportunity — which is 
why we are helping arm Detroit’s leaders with actionable data to 
inform their work. 
For example, through the JPMorgan Chase 
Institute — a global think tank that draws 
on our firm’s unique proprietary data, 
expertise and market access to develop 
insights into the global economy — we 
measured consumer spending across 15 
U.S. cities, including Detroit. The Institute’s 
Local Consumer Commerce Index (LCCI) 
shows that in Detroit, small businesses are 
a big driver of consumer spending — more 
so than in other parts of the country.The Institute’s LCCI data are truly 
distinctive. Unlike other data sources that 
rely on self-reports, these data reflect  
over 16 billion anonymized credit and debit 
card transactions from more than  
54 million Chase customers. This provides 
an opportunity to produce hyper-localized 
analyses of consumer spending.
In Detroit, these analyses revealed that  
58 percent of consumer spending took 
place at small businesses within Detroit   — 
16
www.jpmorganchase.com/crSmall Business Contribution 
to Metro Spending Growth
2.5
PERCENTAGE  
POINTS
 
15-City  
Metro Average3.4
PERCENTAGE  
POINTS
 
Detroitno other city in in the LCCI sample cleared 50 percent. 
In September 2016, small businesses in Detroit 
contributed 3.4 percentage points to overall growth  
in the entire metro area. By contrast, the 15-city 
metro average contribution from small businesses  
was 2.5 percentage points.
These findings suggest that the city’s focus on 
strengthening and supporting its small business  
sector has the potential to be a powerful lever for 
driving inclusive growth. 
Data provided by our firm also informs a broad range 
of other efforts underway across Detroit —     from 
tackling blight to strengthening the city’s workforce 
system. For example, in 2016, JPMorgan Chase and 
the Corporation for a Skilled Workforce released 
research aimed at enabling the city’s leaders to 
make data-driven investments in training programs 
and connect and better prepare Detroiters for job 
opportunities. This research built on an analysis of the 
“skills gap” in Detroit that JPMorgan Chase issued in 
2015, which identified the sectors projected to create 
the most middle-skill job opportunities in the city.As another example, data provided by the Global 
Cities Initiative — a joint project of the Brookings 
Institution and JPMorgan Chase — helped illuminate 
Detroit’s economic assets and opportunities for 
investments. After the research found that Detroit has 
the potential for more foreign direct investment, we 
brought together leaders to discuss the actions they 
could take toward the region’s overall expansion and 
globalization of its economy.
Detroit provides a case in point of how timely, robust 
and local data helps leaders target efforts and focus 
limited resources in ways that make a real difference 
in the lives of their residents. 
Detroit’s focus on strengthening  
its small business sector can be  
a powerful lever for driving  
inclusive growth.
JPMORGAN CHASE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
17At Eco Works, Shiquia Montgomery 
recycles industrial materials as part  
of a skills training program.DETROIT
JOBS AND SKILLS
RETOOLING DETROIT’S  WORKFORCE
BY CHAUNCY LENNON, HEAD OF WORKFORCE 
INITIATIVES, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.
There is perhaps no more important 
measure of  Detroit’s revitalization than 
whether it creates opportunities for 
Detroiters to secure good jobs and  
climb the economic ladder.
Today , there are clear signs of  progress. 
As 2016 came to a close, 11,000 more 
Detroiters were working than at the 
start of  the year. The city’s employment 
growth is outpacing overall U.S. growth. 
The unemployment rate is down to  
10.4 percent from a high of  about  
28 percent in 2009.  
But challenges remain. The 
unemployment rate is still significantly 
higher than the national average.  
Additionally , many residents do not  
have the necessary skill and education 
levels to qualify for good-paying jobs 
available locally .  
“ As Detroit comes back, we want to make 
sure that Detroiters are participating 
in the turnaround — and that means 
having the skills to secure available jobs,” 
said Detroit Mayor Mike Duggan.
Through New Skills at Work, JPMorgan 
Chase’s $250 million global initiative to 
inform and accelerate demand-driven 
skills training, our firm is investing  
$12.5 million in Detroit to help boost 
the city’s workforce readiness. Our 
goal is to create more opportunities for 
workers to obtain well-paying, middle-
skill jobs — those that require education 
beyond a high school diploma but less 
than a college degree — while providing 
employers with the workforce needed to 
grow and compete. 
Detroit, like many other cities,  
has experienced profound shifts  
in its industrial base, technological 
disruption and a changing employment 
landscape. Working closely with our 
partners on the ground, we are sharing 
insights from our efforts to address  
these challenges.
18
www.jpmorganchase.com/crJamie Dimon visits the training facility 
floor at Focus: HOPE with Decondi Kennedy 
(left) and Nathaniel Harris (right).
Christopher Proctor II started at  
Eco Works as a trainee and has moved on  
to a manager role in only a few years. 
STRENGTHENING DETROIT’S WORKFORCE SYSTEM STARTS WITH UNDERSTANDING IT
The misalignment between the skills 
employers need to be competitive, the 
skills available in the workforce and the 
skills provided by training programs is 
unique to the local region. This makes 
good data and analysis essential for 
accurately diagnosing problems and 
formulating solutions that truly make  
a difference on the ground. 
With this in mind, our firm 
commissioned research to examine 
the dynamics of  Detroit’s workforce 
system. In 2016 JPMorgan Chase and 
the Corporation for a Skilled Workforce 
(CSW) released a series of  reports 
that identified specific opportunities 
for strengthening the city’s workforce 
infrastructure and aligning resources to 
support job growth. The findings helped inform a 
reconstituted Mayor’s Detroit 
Workforce Development Board.  
They also prompted the launch of  
a new Detroit Workforce System 
Leadership Academy — an intensive 
12-month learning program facilitated 
by CSW and JPMorgan Chase — 
which will provide Detroit workforce 
leaders with an opportunity to 
collaborate on developing practical 
solutions to solve some of  the city’s 
most challenging workforce issues.  
The Academy will leverage and  
build on the expertise of  leaders  
across the workforce community to 
help up to 22 local senior workforce 
leaders better engage employers, 
understand industry workforce needs, 
develop successful career pathway strategies and strengthen connections 
between training providers, job seekers 
and employers. 
“JPMorgan Chase has been 
instrumental in advancing the 
leadership culture of  learning and 
innovation that Detroit’s leaders are 
working to build,” said Jeannine La 
Prad, CEO, Corporation for a Skilled 
Workforce. “Through the Academy , 
local leaders will increase their capacity 
to tackle persistent employment 
challenges for Detroit residents and 
employers. Together, we will help 
Detroit be on the leading edge of  
workforce system transformation.”
“To translate economic growth into true economic opportunity for more Americans, we 
need a new strategy for human-capital formation and a major pivot toward practical skills.
The unique sense of  dignity conferred by meaningful work and earned success is vital for 
building satisfying lives and strong societies.”
Arthur C. Brooks,  President of  the American Enterprise Institute
JPMORGAN CHASE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
19Roderick Carter works on the assembly 
and packing line at an automotive 
supply facility managed by Goodwill 
Industries, one of the workforce 
training providers supported by 
JPMorgan Chase.
Denise Hampton works 
on the automotive 
parts supply line at 
Goodwill Industries. DETROIT
JOBS AND SKILLS
INVESTING IN DETROIT’S MOST EFFECTIVE TRAINING PROVIDERS
In Detroit, as in other cities around the 
world, JPMorgan Chase is investing in 
high-quality training providers that help 
individuals develop the skills, credentials 
and experience they need to get on stable 
and rewarding career pathways. 
Since 2014, our support for organizations 
such as Detroit Employment Solutions 
Corporation (DESC), Goodwill 
Industries, EcoWorks, Focus: HOPE, The 
Greening of  Detroit, United Way  
for Southeastern Michigan and  
others have helped more than 3,600  
Detroiters build in-demand skills. “The city of  Detroit is seeing 
significant demand in a number of  key 
occupational sectors, and we need to 
ensure that a pipeline of  skilled talent is 
available to support that demand,” said 
Nicole Sherard-Freeman, president and 
CEO of  DESC.  
That is exactly what DESC’s Demand 
Driven Detroit Training program (3DT) 
— which uses a combination of  boot 
camps, apprenticeships and basic skills 
accelerator training — is working to 
do. It focuses on arming participants 
with skills to enter well-paying jobs in 
Detroit’s fast-growing health care and 
information technology sectors.  
Demand-driven programs like 3DT ,  
and those of  our many other partners 
across the city , are powerful tools 
for ensuring all Detroiters have the 
opportunity to share in the rewards of  
Detroit’s revitalization. 
20
www.jpmorganchase.com/crGregory Davis, a 
graduate of Focus: 
HOPE , a JPMorgan 
Chase-supported 
training program that 
helps Detroiters build 
in-demand skills. 
After completing 
the program, Davis 
was hired by Detroit 
Manufacturing 
Systems. 
OPENING THE DOORS TO OPPORTUNITY FOR DETROIT’S YOUTH 
Talent is distributed evenly . 
Opportunity is not.  
It’s a point Detroit Mayor Mike 
Duggan, among others, has made, 
and it’s one that is starkly apparent 
in Detroit. More than 55 percent 
of  Detroit’s children live in poverty . 
The city has a 30 percent youth 
unemployment rate — the highest 
among the 25 largest U.S. metro 
areas. Only 62 percent of  the city’s 
African-American and 55 percent of  its 
Latino young men are graduating from 
high school. More than 30 percent of  
young people in Detroit’s lower-income 
African-American neighborhoods are 
neither working nor in school. 
In Detroit, as in too many communities 
around the world, young people of  
color and young people from distressed 
neighborhoods are being shut out 
of  opportunity . JPMorgan Chase is 
working to help change that reality .In 2016 our firm launched New Skills 
for Youth, a $75 million global initiative 
to expand high-quality career-focused 
education programs that lead to well-
paying jobs and long-term careers. 
These programs can truly transform 
lives by showing students that there are 
many pathways to success, including 
ones that do not require pursuing a 
four-year degree right after high school. 
As part of  this initiative, we are 
investing $4 million to support work 
by the United Way of  Southeastern 
Michigan to strengthen college and 
career pathways for students at 20 
Detroit high schools. JPMorgan Chase 
joins the Skillman Foundation, the 
Ford Foundation and the Ford Motor 
Company Fund as part of  a coalition 
working to connect 10,000 Detroit 
high school students over the next three 
years with career education and work 
experiences to boost employment. Our support will enable the United 
Way to expand its Linked Learning 
initiative, a career-oriented education 
program. Through Linked Learning’s 
curriculum and work-based learning, 
students earn credentials, qualifying 
them for career pathways and 
college, in growing industries such 
as advanced manufacturing, health 
care, information technology , digital 
communications, engineering and 
public service.    
“ As parents fight to encourage their 
children to stay in school in hopes 
that they have a brighter future, it’s 
an uphill battle without access and 
opportunity that our youth can see,” 
said Sharlonda Buckman, CEO, Detroit 
Parent Network. “With support from 
JPMorgan Chase, the Linked Learning 
approach is an opportunity to affirm 
parents’ resolve to push and support 
their youth and the relevance of  their 
education experience.” 
By creating more opportunities for 
Detroit’s young people, JPMorgan 
Chase is helping lay the foundation  
for a real, lasting and broadly  
shared recovery .
JPMORGAN CHASE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
21DETROIT
SMALL BUSINESS EXPANSION
SUPPORTING  INCLUSIVE   
ENTREPRENEURSHIP
By Janis Bowdler, Head of Small Business and  
Community Development Initiatives, Global  
Philanthropy, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
When Detroit’s small businesses succeed, its 
neighborhoods and the city as a whole follow. From 
restaurants to barbershops, from tech startups to 
coffee shops, these vital hubs of commerce contribute 
to diverse neighborhoods, attract new residents, 
create jobs and power the local economy.
In Detroit — where U.S. Census data show that 
approximately 50,000 small businesses are owned 
by people of color, making it the fourth-largest U.S. 
city for the number of minority-owned businesses — 
JPMorgan Chase recognized that better meeting these 
entrepreneurs’ needs was vital to unleashing the 
power of small business as a driver of opportunity. 
Our work in the city quickly shined the spotlight 
on the importance of creating more abundant and 
creative opportunities for underserved entrepreneurs 
to access capital. Knowing that greater access to 
flexible capital — financing for small businesses 
that don’t meet the criteria for traditional loans — 
is a particularly dire need, we helped launch the 
Entrepreneurs of Color (EOC) Fund, in partnership 
with the Detroit Development Fund (DDF) and the 
W.K. Kellogg Foundation.
“Growing lending to minority small business owners 
is crucial to Detroit’s comeback,” said Ray Waters, 
president, DDF. “The unique structure of the EOC 
Fund allows DDF to provide lines of credit and loans 
to accommodate the needs of entrepreneurs who 
might otherwise go out of business but now are able 
to offer their services to the residents of Detroit.”A STRATEGY SHARPENED IN DETROIT
In 2014 JPMorgan Chase launched Small Business 
Forward, a global philanthropic initiative to support 
and scale innovative approaches to boosting small 
business growth in critical urban markets. As a part  
of this initiative, JPMorgan Chase’s investment 
included a $7 million commitment to help launch  
and grow small businesses in Detroit. 
With evidence that small businesses grow faster 
when they share resources and infrastructure, a key 
component of our strategy in Detroit was investing 
in incubators and accelerators, which provide would-
be entrepreneurs with everything from no-cost 
workspaces and strategic workshops to mentorship 
and networking. In Detroit, this drove our support 
for Eastern Market, a food incubator, which has been 
extremely successful in launching businesses and 
creating jobs. 
Although this highly focused incubator model yielded 
real results, it also became abundantly clear that a 
focus on women, minority and veteran entrepreneurs 
was essential for the city’s transformation. These 
insights in Detroit contributed to JPMorgan Chase in 
2016 sharpening its focus on helping underserved 
entrepreneurs connect with capital to drive 
sustainable, widespread and inclusive growth.      
22
www.jpmorganchase.com/cr“Detroit’s entrepreneurs grapple 
with many challenges — a global 
marketplace, rapidly changing 
technology and new sources of  
competition. However, they also 
face a unique set of  obstacles that 
come from working in a city that 
is transforming itself  on a large 
scale. Though these challenges 
are particularly acute in Detroit, 
the ways we address them can be 
applied to communities across the 
country and around the world.”
Jennifer Piepszak,  CEO of   
Chase Card Services (former CEO of   
Chase Business Banking)
JPMORGAN CHASE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
23DETROIT
SMALL BUSINESS EXPANSION
 
MOVING SMALL  
BUSINESS FORWARDBy the end of 2016 the EOC 
Fund had awarded 30 loans 
valued at $2.75 million in 
critical capital, and it had 
created 79 jobs for Detroit 
businesses that are owned by 
minorities or that primarily 
employ minorities. 
Trellis Mercer on the floor of a manufacturing 
facility for LoveLifeSwagger. Funding from the 
Entrepreneurs of Color Fund helped Mercer to 
expand his Detroit clothing business.  Our strategy is focused on three key a reas: 
Diversifying High-  
Growth Sectors
Eastern Market  is a prime example of 
how a geographic concentration of related 
businesses can help entrepreneurs get off 
the ground. Located at the site of three 
formerly blighted industrial buildings in 
the Eastern Market District, the regional 
food service hub houses incubators like 
Shed 5. With the help of funding from 
JPMorgan Chase, it also supports a 
network of six commercial shared-use 
kitchens across the city. Detroit Kitchen
Connect, a technical assistance program,
has helped create 42 jobs and license  
35 businesses.Expanding Entrepreneurial 
Opportunities
As the city’s preeminent business 
accelerator and incubator, TechTown  
clearly shows how a high-tech, high-growth 
incubator can address the needs of small 
businesses and underserved entrepreneurs. 
With JPMorgan Chase’s support, TechTown 
has engaged 15 businesses through its 
University District SWOT City program since 
2014. TechTown also offers its Retail Boot 
Camp for owners to open brick-and-mortar 
businesses. Since 2013 it has helped 39 
entrepreneurs open new businesses and 
leveraged over $540,000 in investments. Expanding Access  
to Flexible Capital
Launched in 2015, the Entrepreneurs 
of Color (EOC) Fund  is a $7 million loan 
fund for Detroit’s minority-owned small 
businesses to help ensure that they have the 
resources and tools to succeed. Facilitated 
by the Detroit Development Fund, with 
funding from JPMorgan Chase and the W.K. 
Kellogg Foundation, the EOC Fund provides 
flexible financing and access to technical 
assistance to businesses that lack access to 
traditional forms of credit and capital. 
24
www.jpmorganchase.com/crRHONDA ROWE  
KEEPS ON TRUCKINGRowe Trucking’s fleet of  
trucks needs gas to keep  
it running smoothly. But  
the business is really  
fueled by a steady flow  
of  working capital.
Rowe Trucking is a second-generation 
Detroit small business owned by Rhonda 
Rowe and started by her father, Arthur, in 
1967. With five trucks, it hauls materials 
such as sand, gravel, asphalt and dirt for a 
range of clients in the city and beyond. 
Since 2015 Rowe has secured two 
loans totaling $75,000 through DDF’s 
Entrepreneurs of Color program, which has 
allowed Rowe to buy new trucks that let the 
company transport larger amounts to meet 
her customers’ needs. The funds help to bridge the cash flow gap, 
especially since the seasonal business is 
closed for several months in winter due to 
the frigid Detroit weather. “Sometimes it 
takes 30 to 60 days to get paid from some 
of the contractors that we work for,” said 
Rowe. In the meantime, she needs to meet 
payroll, fuel the trucks, pay insurance and 
meet other needs that arise. The funds give 
her a cushion to make this all happen. “I am 
grateful to the whole team at the Detroit 
Development Fund for working with me to 
keep my business running.”Rowe’s vision of the future includes 
expanding from five to 10 trucks as well 
as continuing to support the community 
where she works and lives. 
“Because I was born and raised in 
Detroit, I want to hire more Detroiters,” 
said Rhonda Rowe, owner of 
Rowe Trucking . “This is very 
important to me, so they can take care 
of  their families while my company can 
continue on for generations to come.” 
25 JPMORGAN CHASE  CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTDETROIT
NEIGHBORHOOD REVITALIZATION
 NEIGHBORHOOD
      LEFT BEHIND
By Hon. Mel Martinez 
Chairman of the Southeast U.S. and Latin America Regions, JPMorgan Chase & Co.; former  
U.S. Senator from Florida, and 12th Secretary of Housing and Urban Development
Detroit’s newly revitalized downtown and midtown are buzzing. But not everyone is feeling 
the thrill. Beyond these areas, it’s all too common to find neighborhoods that are at risk 
of being left behind. The disparity not only harms families and communities, it isn’t a 
sustainable model — research shows that thriving neighborhoods are key for any city’s 
long-term economic success.  
“Detroit’s success depends on our ability to 
work collaboratively with public, private and 
philanthropic partners to find innovative solutions 
that will fuel the city’s continued revitalization. 
JPMorgan Chase’s investment will create a micro-
district model, which can be tailored throughout 
the city and serve as a catalyst for neighborhood 
redevelopment, stimulating small business 
economic growth and creating new jobs.”  
U.S. Sen. Gary Peters  (D-Mich.)
26
www.jpmorganchase.com/crThe question is how to spread the 
prosperity beyond the urban core.  
To help address this complex issue, in 2016 JPMorgan Chase launched 
Partnerships for Raising Opportunity in Neighborhoods (PRO 
Neighborhoods), a $125 million, five-year philanthropic initiative to 
support and catalyze locally driven solutions for revitalizing distressed 
neighborhoods across the United States. 
This focus on neighborhood renewal has been greatly informed by our 
work in Detroit, where we help to find ways to ensure the revitalization 
underway there extends beyond downtown and midtown. Historically, 
community development efforts have treated each element of 
neighborhoods — housing, education, health care and transportation — 
separately. Instead, PRO Neighborhoods’ strategy is based on the idea 
that creating vibrant, healthy and inclusive neighborhoods depends 
on investing in these elements in a holistic and integrated way — and 
doing so deeply enough in a particular place to have a real impact. 
DEVELOP DETROIT
In 2016 JPMorgan Chase announced a commitment of $4 million 
over four years in seed funding to support the creation of Develop 
Detroit, a full-service nonprofit real estate development organization 
that fills a critical gap in capacity to bring financing to projects in 
Detroit’s neighborhoods. Develop Detroit will work to preserve existing 
affordable residential homes and build new, inclusive mixed-use 
housing projects in targeted neighborhoods. Since its launch in August, 
Develop Detroit has closed on three projects, which include new 
housing units, renovated apartments and a new development site for 
mixed-income, multifamily rental homes.  THE DETROIT  
STRATEGIC  
NEIGHBORHOODS  
INITIATIVE
PRO Neighborhoods holds an annual 
competition to encourage community 
development financial institutions 
(CDFIs) to collaborate on local solutions 
that promote inclusive growth in 
their communities. One of the 2016 
winners was the Detroit Strategic 
Neighborhoods Initiative, a collaboration 
that brings together public, private and 
philanthropic partners. The initiative  
is focused on improving a targeted  
group of neighborhoods by stabilizing 
real estate, creating jobs, providing 
mixed-income housing and  
improving infrastructure. 
JPMorgan Chase committed $5 million in 
the initiative to support the creation of a 
new $30 million Strategic Neighborhood 
Fund, a partnership between Invest 
Detroit, the Detroit Development Fund 
and the Opportunity Resource Fund. 
Over the next decade, the fund will 
dedicate key resources to add more 
housing, density and services in the  
West Village, Southwest Detroit and 
Livernois-McNichols neighborhoods, 
which have been targeted by the city  
for revitalization. 
JPMORGAN CHASE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
27David Blaszkiewicz, president  
and CEO of Invest Detroit.DETROIT
NEIGHBORHOOD REVITALIZATION
INVESTING IN  
COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT
JPMorgan Chase has deep expertise in community development 
banking and, through our Chase Community Development Banking 
business, a proven track record of  lending and investing in Detroit. 
This commitment continues in the 
city, where in addition to our ongoing 
community development banking work 
and PRO Neighborhoods efforts, half 
of our total $100 million investment 
will support two leading nonprofit 
community development financial 
institutions: Capital Impact Partners 
and Invest Detroit. Through the Detroit 
Neighborhoods Fund, managed by Capital Impact Partners, we are 
providing financing for the rehabilitation 
and construction of mixed-use and 
multifamily housing. The Chase Invest 
Detroit Fund, managed by Invest 
Detroit, provides capital for residential, 
commercial and retail developments  
that help small and medium-sized 
enterprises grow. This support is 
enabling our partners to finance projects 
in Detroit’s neighborhoods and urban 
core that hold the key to unlocking more  
inclusive growth but lack access to 
traditional financing.  
By the end of 2016, the funds together 
have committed over $43.9 million 
through 19 loans and leveraged over 
$145.8 million in additional funding.
“CDFIs are built on the philosophy of 
collaboration. We are seeing a high level 
of partnering that exists between CDFIs, 
which allows us to share risk, leverage 
assets and get boots on the ground on a 
grassroots level. It’s based on the concept 
that we all have limited resources that 
we can deploy, and the best we can do 
is leverage our resources for a common 
goal or purpose,” said David Blaszkiewicz, 
president and CEO of Invest Detroit.
TACKLING BLIGHT
Blight isn’t just an  
aesthetic issue. 
Dilapidated housing drains city 
resources, erodes the tax base, 
decreases property values and 
puts a community’s health and 
safety at risk. In Detroit, tackling 
this problem is a crucial step in the 
city’s revitalization. Our firm has 
committed $25 million to support 
a broad range of key efforts and 
organizations in Detroit to end  
blight and stabilize and revitalize 
Detroit’s neighborhoods. 
For example, in 2015 JPMorgan 
Chase provided $5 million to 
community lender Liberty Bank — 
the third-largest African-American-
owned bank in the country — to 
create the Liberty Bank Home 
Restoration Program. Through the 
program, Liberty Bank is extending 
$20 million in affordable mortgage 
and rehabilitation loans to qualified 
buyers and existing homeowners 
in Detroit’s neighborhoods. Our 
support enables Liberty to offer 
more flexible financing terms that 
account for the realities of Detroit’s 
housing market and to provide 
down-payment assistance.
Another example is our support 
of Southwest Solutions, which is 
working to revitalize the Southwest 
neighborhood through coaching 
and homeownership counseling 
programs, and by rehabilitating 
properties and putting them 
back on the market. We have also 
invested in Michigan Community 
Resources and Community 
Development Advocates of  
Detroit to create an electronic 
system to help community 
organizations better coordinate 
their activities and build  
capacity for blight removal.HARNESSING TECHNOLOGY
JPMorgan Chase supports the work of the Motor City Mapping project, which uses 
technology developed by Loveland Technologies to digitize property information and 
helps city officials, residents and community groups work together to transform blighted 
properties. The initiative is a model for how technology can lead to innovative solutions for 
problems that plague neighborhoods. Now we’re supporting the expansion of this unique 
tool to three cities in Ohio.
28
www.jpmorganchase.com/crTHE
20-MINUTE
NEIGHBORHOOD
Imagine living in a place where everything you 
wanted — from parks to groceries to a cup of  coffee 
— was a 20-minute walk or bike ride away . 
This is the concept of the 
“20-minute neighborhood,” an 
idea that started in Portland, 
Oregon, and that Detroit’s civic 
leaders have embraced. In 
addition to increasing livability, 
convenience and well-being, 
these neighborhoods provide 
access to critical services like 
public transit that help  
remove barriers for people  
and communities.
Throughout history, people have 
walked from their homes to get 
the things they need. With the 
invention of the car and the rise 
of the suburbs, however, this 
way of living has fallen by the 
wayside in many places. But the 
concept is back, thanks in part 
to millennials who seek a denser, 
urban community over the 
isolated and car-bound culture 
of the suburbs. 
“A lot of the comeback stories 
have been focused on downtown, 
what people call the heart of the 
city. But Mayor Duggan has
always said that what will make 
Detroit great again is the quality 
of the neighborhoods, which are
the soul of the city. In the next 
phase of revitalizing Detroit, 
we felt that it was important 
to re-establish the importance 
of neighborhoods,” said 
Maurice Cox, Detroit’s director 
of planning. Restoring the 
city’s “soul,” according to Cox, 
involves bringing both long-
time residents and newcomers 
along in Detroit’s recovery. 
The program targets three neighborhoods with an 
abundance of single-family 
homes, many of them beautiful 
but abandoned or in disrepair. 
“We owe people a return on 
their investment by regenerating 
their neighborhoods,” said Cox. 
“We need to give them clear, 
demonstrable results so they 
can plan to stay, raise their 
families and continue to anchor 
this city.” 
For West Village, Southwest 
Detroit and Livernois-
McNichols, the city laid 
out a plan that includes 
several key steps to creating 
20-minute neighborhoods: 
renovating homes with federal 
affordable housing funds, 
building greenways to connect 
neighborhoods, adding protected 
bike lanes and retail in adjacent 
commercial corridors, renovating 
vacant apartment buildings, 
improving streetscapes in 
medians and turning vacant lots 
into gardens or orchards. 
With these three neighborhoods 
making steady progress, more 
are sure to follow. “There is 
something systemic about 
what we are doing,” said Cox. 
“Our goal is to take the lessons 
learned and apply them to many 
kinds of neighborhoods across 
Detroit. If we get this right, 
we will have solved a problem 
that a majority of Detroit 
neighborhoods have faced  
for decades.” 
Maurice Cox, Detroit’s  
planning director.
JPMORGAN CHASE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
29DETROIT
FINANCIAL HEALTH
BRINGING A 
STRONG FINANCIAL  
FOUNDATION TO DETROIT
BY SALLY DURDAN, HEAD OF STRATEGY , CHASE CONSUMER & COMMUNITY BANKING 
Too many people are trying to build a future on an unstable financial foundation. 
Detroit is a case in point. 
A 2016 study by the Urban Institute shows that 
financial health is critical in promoting stability and 
resiliency in Detroit’s communities. However, many 
have difficulty achieving — or maintaining — financial 
health due to barriers to affordable credit, high levels 
of debt and poor credit history.
Sound financial health is the foundation on which 
strong families and communities are built. When this 
foundation is solid, the dream of owning a home, 
starting a business and building a nest egg can 
become a reality. That is why, as part of our model of 
investing in the key drivers of economic opportunity, 
JPMorgan Chase is supporting nonprofit partners that 
promote financial health, helping them scale their 
proven models and supporting efforts to identify and 
expand the reach of digital financial services.An example of this strategy is our partnership with 
The Mission Asset Fund (MAF), a San Francisco-
based nonprofit that is a pioneer in social lending. 
By formalizing the social lending model through a 
technology-based platform, MAF helps individuals 
who have been traditionally excluded from the 
financial system to gain access. 
Through a three-year, $1.5 million grant,  
JPMorgan Chase is helping MAF expand its Lending 
Circles program to several new cities, including 
Detroit. The success of MAF exemplifies how 
innovative technology solutions can be scaled  
to boost financial health around the world,  
helping to create a solid foundation that can  
make an enormous difference to families  
and communities.
ACCORDING TO THE URBAN INSTITUTE, IN DETROIT:
68% 
OF RESIDENTS HAVE 
DELINQUENT DEBT 19% 
HAVE HEALTHY 
CREDIT 66% 
HAVE A SUBPRIME 
OR NO CREDIT SCORE
30
www.jpmorganchase.com/crA MODEL THAT WORKS
In the past, efforts to help individuals 
and families become more financially 
secure focused narrowly on financial 
literacy, which often meant attending 
an informational workshop or reading 
a brochure that explained the basics of 
finance. “When we started 10 years ago, 
the conventional wisdom was that poor 
people didn’t know enough, and we 
needed to teach them to change their 
ways,” said José Quiñonez, CEO of Mission 
Asset Fund. 
Quiñonez didn’t agree with this limited 
assessment. Instead, he looked for the 
positive ways immigrant communities 
handled their finances. One thing he 
noticed was that they often came together 
to lend each other money. This was the 
idea behind MAF’s Lending Circles, a 
unique social lending product that draws 
on this cultural practice. The premise of Lending Circles is 
straightforward: After taking an online 
financial training class, a participant can 
join a Lending Circle, which is comprised 
of six to 10 people. Together, they decide 
on an amount for their group loan. 
Every month, each member contributes 
a payment and takes turns receiving a 
zero-interest loan. By adding a promissory 
note and reporting to all three major 
credit bureaus, Lending Circles empowers 
participants to establish credit scores or 
improve damaged ones. For many, this 
is a first crucial step to their long-term 
financial goals. 
“The financial lives of poor people are
complex,” said Quiñonez. “Instead of 
looking at complexity and shying away 
from it, we can answer people with 
innovation and technology, delivering 
products that are true to their reality.” Through JPMorgan Chase’s commitment, 
MAF is able to expand its technology-
based Lending Circles platform to other 
organizations. Around the country, the 
platform is supporting 53 — and growing 
— nonprofit partners, with near-limitless 
capacity to accommodate future partners 
as the network expands. 
One of these partners in Detroit is 
Southwest Solutions, which provides a 
wide range of community programs and 
services to Detroit residents, including 
financial coaching, entrepreneurial 
training and homebuyer counseling. 
Now Southwest Solutions has integrated 
Lending Circles into its program offerings, 
with the goal of helping its clients work 
toward greater financial stability. 
“Too many Detroit residents have no credit 
history or very low credit ratings,” said 
Hector Hernandez, executive director of 
Southwest Solutions. “Lending Circles will 
enable our clients to build their credit so 
they can realize their long-term financial 
goals, such as becoming homeowners, 
entrepreneurs and college graduates.”
As MAF rapidly expands, it is learning the 
nuances of choosing impactful partners. 
JPMorgan Chase’s wide reach has helped 
open doors for the organization, and 
shows the value of strong collaborations: 
“Our model depends on trust and building 
relationships,” said Quiñonez. “It’s not 
about us setting up an office where we 
don’t know anybody. Chase has been that 
connection that has allowed us to expand. 
It’s been a team effort.” THREE STEPS TO A
LENDING CIRCLE
STEP 1
Members take 
turns receiving 
zero-interest 
loans. STEP 2
Each member contributes 
a payment each month. 
STEP 3
Payments are reported to all 
three major credit bureaus. 
 
Lending Circles helps participants to 
establish credit scores or improve 
damaged ones. 
JPMORGAN CHASE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
31 
MODEL
BEYOND DETROIT  MODEL IN ACTION
While we look at our work in Detroit as “proof 
of concept” of JPMorgan Chase’s model for 
driving inclusive growth, our firm’s corporate 
responsibility strategy and approach was 
developed, tested and refined through our efforts 
on the ground in communities around the world.    
While every city faces unique challenges and 
opportunities, our model works because it 
focuses on the drivers of inclusive growth that 
our experience shows are consistent across 
communities: arm people with the skills needed 
for today’s high-quality jobs; provide small 
businesses — particularly minority-owned and 
community-based ones — with capital and 
resources; invest in community development 
that revitalizes not only urban cores but also 
surrounding neighborhoods; and give  
households the tools and resources to  
manage their financial health.  
JPMorgan Chase is advancing these drivers 
through a series of targeted philanthropic 
initiatives, all of which are informed by data, 
focused on strengthening the underlying  
systems needed to deliver sustainable change 
and executed in collaboration with deeply 
committed and knowledgeable partners.
On the pages that follow, we briefly highlight 
these initiatives and showcase some examples 
of how we are putting our model into action in 
communities around the world.LEVERAGING OUR  
CORE BUSINESS
JOBS AND SKILLS
 
New Skills at Work
New Skills for Youth
DELIVERING DATA  
AND ANALYSIS
INVESTING 
PHILANTHROPIC 
CAPITALFINANCIAL HEALTHFinancial 
 Solutions LabSMALL BUSINESS EXPANSION
NEIGHBORHOOD REVITALIZATIONOUR MISSION:
INCLUSIVE  
GROWTH
32
www.jpmorganchase.com/crJOBS AND SKILLS
FINANCIAL HEALTHPROVIDING  
SKILLS  
AND EXPERTISESMALL BUSINESS EXPANSIONSmall Business Forward
FOSTERING  
COLLABORATION
BUILDING  
CAPACITY NEIGHBORHOOD REVITALIZATION
PRO NeighborhoodsTo enable 
more people 
to share in 
the rewards 
of a growing 
economy.TEST, 
LEARN, 
ITERATEWE ARE PUTTING OUR
MODEL INTO ACTION IN
CITIES ACROSS THE GLOBE.
Preparing the Next Generation of Workers 34
Transforming Career and Technical  36 
Education Around the World    
Creating Career Pathways in Louisiana 36
Investing in Apprenticeships in Colorado 36
Bridging the Skills Gap With Data in 37 
Countries Across Europe and South Africa 
Illuminating Career Pathways in Houston  37 
and the United Kingdom 
Expanding Access to Capital on  38 
a National Scale 
Creating Prosperous Neighborhoods in 40 
Atlanta, Chicago, Miami and New York 
Unlocking Innovation to Boost  41 
Financial Health Around the World
Model in Action: East London 42
LEARN MORE  
ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE’S  
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY EFFORTS
Learn more about how JPMorgan  
Chase is using its scale, resources 
and expertise to open pathways to 
economic opportunity around the 
world by signing up for Global Strength, 
Local Impact , our quarterly corporate 
responsibility newsletter, at:
www.jpmorganchase.com/
corporateresponsibility
JPMORGAN CHASE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
33BEYOND DETROIT
JOBS AND SKILLS
We asked Denver Mayor Michael B. Hancock and New Orleans 
Mayor Mitchell J. Landrieu how their cities are arming economically 
vulnerable young people with the skills to succeed.
DENVER MAYOR HANCOCK
 NEW ORLEANS MAYOR LANDRIEU
WHAT IS THE BUSINESS COMMUNITY’S ROLE IN EQUIPPING YOUNG PEOPLE  
TO ENTER THE WORKFORCE? 
Mayor Hancock:  Preparing 
the next generation of  workers 
has to be a shared responsibility 
across the business, nonprofit and 
government sectors. Employers 
need the talent, and for Denver to 
remain economically competitive, we 
need to continually feed that talent 
pool. We make sure we understand 
the private sector’s needs and 
partner with them to put together 
curriculum and programs that will 
prepare their workforce pipeline.  Mayor Landrieu: Employers 
are the most important partners 
in the workforce system. Through 
the Anchor Collaborative, my team 
has regularly convened business 
leaders, testing workforce innovation 
and building trust with and among 
local major employers. Government 
alone cannot adequately respond to 
workforce challenges.  
One of  the most critical tasks of  
a mayor is to shift leadership and 
ownership of  economic opportunity 
and workforce development from 
government to industry .PREPARING THE NEXT GENERATION  OF WORKERS  
34 www.jpmorganchase.com/crHOW ARE YOU MAKING SURE YOUNG PEOPLE HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY  
TO SHARE IN YOUR CITY’S ECONOMIC GROWTH?
Mayor Hancock: As the 
employment base has changed, it’s not 
as much about the degree you have 
— although certifications and degrees 
are important — as it is the practical 
skills you bring to the marketplace. 
Particularly for those who are under-
skilled, undereducated and challenged 
economically , we have to make sure 
they have the skills to be competitive. 
Denver Public Schools has a 
tremendous career education 
platform, and we are collaborating 
with them to reach out to 
disconnected youth and provide skill-
building opportunities that will help 
them find gainful employment.  
We’ve got myriad efforts to break  
down barriers and create opportunities. 
We’re not just leaving it to the market 
or to chance. Mayor Landrieu:  In order for New 
Orleans to reach her full potential, 
all New Orleanians must participate 
in the city’s economic growth. We 
support creating career pathways in 
key economic clusters. Because of  the 
wide range of  skill sets or education 
needed for these high-demand 
industries, it presents employment 
opportunities for youth at every point 
on the economic spectrum. 
New Orleans has a strong, cross-sector 
collaborative with EMPLOY , which 
works to decrease the number of  
disconnected youth ages 18 to 24. 
EMPLOY aims to create a common 
language across employers and 
workforce development agencies 
to ensure that youth are trained to 
successfully meet industry demands  
and sustain themselves and their 
families through high-growth careers. 
35 JPMORGAN CHASE  CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTBEYOND DETROIT
JOBS AND SKILLS
TRANSFORMING CAREER AND TECHNICAL 
EDUCATION AROUND THE WORLD   
Failing to prepare young people with the right skills and education to compete for good jobs is not just a missed 
opportunity for them — it’s a missed opportunity for businesses to hire the talent they need to grow and compete. 
That’s why , in 2016, JPMorgan Chase launched New Skills for Youth, a $75 million global initiative to expand 
high-quality career-focused education programs that lead to well-paying jobs and long-term careers. 
As part of  the initiative, we launched a 
competition — in collaboration with  
the Council of  Chief  State School 
Officers (CCSSO) and Advance CTE, 
the association of  state Career and 
Technical Education directors — to 
award U.S. states with funding to expand 
and improve career-focused education.
In 2016 JPMorgan Chase and CCSSO 
committed $100,000 to each of  the  
24 states and the District of  Columbia, 
which were selected from a total of   
44 states that applied. These states also 
received targeted coaching and support 
to begin implementing these programs.
In the second phase of  the initiative, in 
January 2017 we announced $20 million 
in grants to 10 states to dramatically 
increase the number of  students who 
graduate from high school prepared for 
careers. The winning states — which 
were selected from the original 24 state winners — were Delaware, Kentucky , 
Louisiana, Massachusetts, Nevada, 
Ohio, Oklahoma, Rhode Island, 
Tennessee and Wisconsin . 
We are also supporting innovative 
career and technical education 
programs around the world. In 
2016, for example, we launched a 
program with the nonprofit Education 
Development Center to help young 
people in the Association of  Southeast 
Asian Nations gain the skills in demand 
in the region’s dynamic digital economy . 
In the United Kingdom, JPMorgan 
Chase and the Education Endowment 
Foundation launched an initiative 
to help young people improve their 
English and mathematics attainment 
— a crucial step for progressing 
their studies, whether toward higher 
education or high-level apprenticeships, 
and finding quality jobs.INVESTING IN APPRENTICESHIPS  
IN COLORADO
By providing students with hands-on 
instruction and the chance to earn 
while they learn, apprenticeships are a 
time-tested and proven model to help 
young people get on the path to secure, 
well-paying employment. We know 
apprenticeships work; we just need to  
give more young people the opportunity  
to get on the path they provide. 
JPMorgan Chase and Bloomberg 
Philanthropies have together committed 
$9.5 million to CareerWise Colorado, a 
new statewide apprenticeship system for 
high school students, and Denver Public 
Schools’ CareerConnect.
JPMorgan Chase’s support will enable 
CareerConnect to expand its program, 
which currently helps more than 6,000 
Denver students develop skills and 
education for opportunities in  
Colorado’s engineering, tech, biomedical, 
advanced manufacturing and finance 
industries. With the funding, the program 
plans to reach 9,000 students over the 
next three years.
Our support will also enable the piloting 
of  a bold new apprenticeship model 
in the state. Called CareerResidency , 
the program links with high school 
curriculum (grades 9 to 12) and 
CareerConnect experiential learning 
programs, adds a 13th year, and 
culminates in a full transferrable 
associate’s degree and relevant industry 
certifications. In years 12 and 13,  
students spend three days a week at a 
worksite — earning while they learn  
— and two days at a training center,  
such as a community college. CREATING CAREER PATHWAYS IN LOUISIANA
Aligning education with career 
pathways can have a profound 
impact on young people’s lifelong 
economic trajectories. JPMorgan 
Chase and Bloomberg Philanthropies 
have joined forces to open this 
opportunity to more young people 
in the Greater New Orleans region, 
home to the third-largest population 
of  disconnected youth in the United 
States, with nearly one in five young 
people neither working nor in school. 
We are providing a combined $7.5 
million to YouthForce NOLA, a 
collaboration of  community and 
education leaders working to help the city’s public high schools redesign 
their career and technical education 
programming. YouthForce NOLA is 
offering coursework, credentials and 
work-based learning experiences to 
students that put them on a pathway  
to developing the skills and knowledge 
to pursue well-paying jobs in high-
demand fields.  
Specifically , over the next five years, 
this support will allow YouthForce 
NOLA to help 1,600 students earn 
credentials that will qualify them for 
career pathways, and place 1,200 
students in paid internships in fast-
growing regional industries.
36
www.jpmorganchase.com/crAt Tennessee’s Lenoir City High School, health sciences students participate in a car crash simulation. FILLING THE SKILLS GAP 
WHILE PROVIDING PATHWAYS 
TO OPPORTUNITY
A changing global economy and the rise of  technology have dramatically 
transformed t he types of  workforce skills that are in demand. JPMorgan Chase 
is investing over $325 million in skills development around the world,  
including our New Skills for Youth and New Skills at Work initiatives.  
Through this effort, we are working to help fill the skills gap for employers  
and simultaneously  provide adult workers with a real and tangible pathway  
to economic opportunity . 
BRIDGING THE SKILLS GAP WITH DATA
In communities around the world, there 
is a lack of  reliable information on new 
and emerging skill needs. It became 
clear to us that closing the skills gap had 
to start with closing the data gap. That 
is why a key part of  New Skills at Work’s 
strategy is investing in data and analysis. 
One such philanthropic investment is 
Adapting to Changing Skills Needs, a 
project launched by the Organization 
for Economic Cooperation and 
Development (OECD) and JPMorgan 
Chase in 2016. The goals of  the 
effort are to fill knowledge gaps in the assessment of  skill imbalances and to 
identify international best practices 
in addressing them. The project will 
build an online statistical tool that will 
enable users to compare how their 
country performs against other OECD 
countries on a set of  indicators that 
measure skill imbalances; users can also 
see which occupations and skills face 
the strongest labor market pressure. 
The project will highlight cross-country 
patterns and identify policies in 
addressing skill gaps, and provide in-
depth reviews for selected countries in 
Europe and South Africa.  
ILLUMINATING  CAREER PATHWAYS
We know the importance of  integrating 
career pathways that help participants 
build skills and credentials to advance in 
their careers over time. The success of  
these approaches depends on effectively 
reaching job seekers to make them 
aware of  the possible pathways and 
which skills and education are needed 
to get there. However, we have seen that 
too often that is not happening.    
This is the idea behind JPMorgan 
Chase’s partnership with Houston’s 
East Harris County Manufacturers 
Association (EHCMA) and the Council 
for Adult and Experiential Learning  
to create an innovative, online 
platform to help students and adults 
tap into career opportunities in the 
petrochemical industry . 
“Many of  these careers are hidden in 
plain sight, and once people know about 
them, they become interested because 
of  the compensation, benefits and 
ability to have a lifelong career with one 
employer,” says Craig Beskid, executive 
director of  EHCMA.  
Launched with the support of  
JPMorgan Chase, PetrochemWorks.com 
is an interactive and information-packed 
career exploration resource, which 
benefits from the input of  more than 
150 petrochemical experts and company 
representatives. It features interest-based 
career maps, educational resources, 
listings of  open jobs and related skills 
and educational requirements.
In the United Kingdom, JPMorgan 
Chase supported the creation of  
another tool to give job seekers 
visibility into the career options 
available to them: WhereTheWorkIs.
org. Developed by Burning Glass 
Technologies and the Institute for 
Public Policy Research, the online 
resource provides data on skills and 
vacancies for middle-skill jobs and 
the gaps between them that exist in 
different occupations and areas  
of  the country . 
JPMORGAN CHASE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
37BEYOND DETROIT
SMALL BUSINESS EXPANSION
EXPANDINGACCESS TO CAPITAL 
ON A NATIONAL SCALE
With small businesses growing fastest among people of color,  
particularly Latinas and African-American women, it’s essential to  
help them get started and growing. When small businesses succeed,  
our communities and neighborhoods succeed.
That’s why, in 2016, JPMorgan Chase more 
the doubled the size of our Small Business 
Forward global philanthropic initiative, 
committing $75 million over the next three 
years to support women-, minority- and 
veteran-owned small businesses. As part of this initiative, we are applying 
the lessons we learned in Detroit about 
the critical importance of building capital 
bridges for underserved entrepreneurs by 
supporting a variety of efforts across the 
United States that are working to advance 
that goal.“Not everyone can access 
a traditional loan. It is 
crucial to make it faster and 
easier for small businesses 
to connect with local 
CDFI partners devoted to 
providing targeted capital 
and trusted guidance.  
This supports our vision  
to change the way capital 
and services flow to  
Main Street.” 
Connie Evans,  President and 
CEO, AEO
Accion  
U.S. Network 
JPMorgan Chase launched a $1 million 
partnership with Accion U.S. Network 
aimed at enhancing access to capital for 
women and minority entrepreneurs. A 
critical part of the partnership is a multi-
year review of the portfolios of Accion 
Network members and Opportunity Fund 
to gain better insight into the long-term 
impacts of small business microlending. 
In addition, the Accion members are 
co-creating new technology that will 
streamline their lending businesses.  
To aid in this effort, JPMorgan Chase  
also provided $2.1 million to four  
Accion organizations to support their 
lending activity.LiftFund’s  
LiftUP Initiative
In 2016 JPMorgan Chase invested in 
LiftFund, a nonprofit that helps small 
businesses with limited access to capital. 
The nonprofit lender provides small 
business loans and minority-business  
loans for women, startups and 
entrepreneurs, as well as essential 
technical assistance. With a $4.6 million 
commitment to its new LiftUP Initiative,  
the loan fund will offer faster and  
cheaper loans to small business owners 
in Dallas, Houston, Austin, San Antonio, 
New Orleans and Atlanta through a new 
web-based program that will reduce loan 
approval time from an average of five 
weeks to four days. Association for  
Enterprise Opportunity
Research shows that individuals who get 
personally referred for a bank loan are 
far more likely to get financing over those 
without referrals. To help scale the power 
of these kinds of personal connections, 
JPMorgan Chase committed $1.9 million  
to the Association for Enterprise 
Opportunity (AEO), a trade organization 
whose mission is to support underserved 
entrepreneurs. The funding will help 
advance AEO’s digital referral platform, 
which connects small businesses to 
trusted community development financial 
institution (CDFI) lenders when the  
owners are unable to qualify for  
traditional loans.
38
www.jpmorganchase.com/crTHE DATA ON 
MINORITY-
OWNED SMALL 
BUSINESSES
For many aspiring entrepreneurs, starting 
— and keeping afloat — a small business 
can present insurmountable obstacles. 
This is especially true for minority-owned 
businesses, which have less access to 
flexible financing and the support services 
that are so critical to success. Only 16 
percent of conventional small business 
loans go to women entrepreneurs, and 
despite the higher startup rate of African-
American-owned businesses, these 
businesses received less than 2 percent  
of Small Business Administration loans  
in 2013, down from 8 percent before  
the recession. 
A 2016 report by JPMorgan Chase and 
the Initiative for a Competitive Inner City 
(ICIC) found that women and minorities 
are significantly underrepresented in 
high-tech incubators and accelerators, 
and cited intentional exclusivity, a lack 
of outreach and inherent biases in the 
selection process as the strongest barriers 
to diversity. Yet minority-owned small 
businesses are critical to revitalize local 
economies: ICIC also reported that small 
businesses in America’s inner cities are 
the primary drivers of job creation and 
employment rates. What Are the Keys to Inclusive Entrepreneurship?
Nely Galán: Many women of color don’t have experience with the financial system 
in the United States. Many Latinos come from countries where the banking system 
has collapsed. I started a business at 25, and I didn’t make one penny for four 
years. Then I found a banker who looked like me and started asking questions. 
I began going to classes at the Chamber of Commerce, networking and joining 
organizations for small business owners. I started meeting people and building 
relationships. It was only then my business took off. Power is not given to us —  
we have to go take it. 
Beverly Johnson: It’s crucial to understand the importance of and the barriers 
to accessing capital. This is a key element to success. People think they can go 
out and start a business on their own, but all of a sudden they are against the 
wall. But information is power: There are grants, loans and government supplier 
diversity programs for people who want to start their own business. Many people 
of color know they exist, but we just weren’t invited to the table. So it’s important 
to surround yourself with a team of entrepreneurs, mentors and partners who 
know how to get capital.  
Nely Galán is the former president of  
entertainment at Telemundo, making her 
the first Latina head of  a major network. 
An Emmy award-winning television 
producer, she has owned her own media 
company since 1994. As a self-made media 
mogul, Galán has made it her mission to 
teach women how they too can become 
entrepreneurs. She is the author of  “Self  
Made: Becoming Empowered, Self-Reliant, 
and Rich in Every Way ,” a manifesto 
to unite all women on a quest for an 
economic future they control. She is also 
the founder of  the Adelante Movement, 
a digital platform that seeks to elevate the 
entrepreneurial spirit and skills of  Latinas.
Beverly Johnson is the first African-
American supermodel. Her stunning 
features eventually landed her on the cover 
of  Vogue in August 1974, making history 
as the first black model to ever grace the 
acclaimed magazine’s cover and forever 
changing the beauty ideal in the fashion 
world. Johnson is a founder, chairwoman 
and CEO of  BJE LLC. Her vision is to build 
BJE (Beverly Johnson Enterprises) into the 
multibillion-dollar global brand The Beverly 
Johnson Luxurious Lifestyle Brand, which 
represents the highest-quality luxurious 
products in media, fashion and hair, beauty 
and cosmetics to the global multicultural 
market for women of  all colors.
JPMORGAN CHASE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
39Credit: Loveland TechnologiesBEYOND DETROIT
NEIGHBORHOOD REVITALIZATION
PRO NEIGHBORHOODS   
FINDING PROACTIVE SOLUTIONS
As the economy recovers, much of  the growth is often channeled toward reviving  
commercial corridors and downtowns in U.S. cities. As a result, many disadvantaged 
neighborhoods are being left behind. To help address this challenge, in 2016 JPMorgan Chase 
launched Partnerships for Raising Opportunity in Neighborhoods (PRO Neighborhoods),  
a $125 million, five-year philanthropic initiative to support and catalyze locally driven  
solutions for revitalizing distressed neighborhoods across the United States.
PRO NEIGHBORHOODS IS FOCUSING ON: CREATING  
PROSPEROUS  
NEIGHBORHOODS
As part of PRO Neighborhoods, 
our firm committed $20 million 
in 2016 to support community 
development organizations in 
Detroit as well as four additional 
cities: Atlanta, Chicago, Miami and  
New York. 
Through our firm’s work on 
the ground, we’ve seen the 
same paradox again and again: 
The community development 
organizations working in 
distressed neighborhoods where 
the needs are greatest are often 
the organizations that have the 
least resources. That’s why we are 
working intentionally to invest 
in the right partners in the right 
places for the most impact. For 
example, the North-Miami-Dade 
CDFI Collaborative brings two 
long-term neighborhood CDFIs 
together — Opa-Locka Community 
Development Corp. and Tools 
for Change — combining their 
expertise in consulting services 
and housing, to better scale 
these services. In Chicago, the 
Neighborhood Retail-Chicago 
Collaborative provides technical 
assistance services and loans for 
commercial developments and  
also works to reduce blight.
Catalyzing Collaboration 
among community 
development financial 
institutions (CDFIs) to 
accelerate and magnify  
their impact.Providing Seed Capital 
for Affordable Housing 
to increase the amount of 
housing for those most  
in need.Investing in Data to help 
communities understand the 
most urgent problems and 
develop specific solutions.
MOTOR CITY MAPPING EXPANDS
The success of Motor City Mapping’s data-mapping tool in Detroit has caught 
the attention of other cities looking to more effectively deal with blight and 
distressed properties. Supported by a two-year, $1 million grant from JPMorgan 
Chase, the Western Reserve Land Conservancy is bringing the data-mapping tool 
developed by Loveland Technologies to Ohio’s three largest cities — Cleveland, 
Cincinnati and Columbus. 
While these cities face different challenges than those of Detroit, using data for 
making critical decisions on community development is relevant for civic leaders, 
investors and neighborhood organizations in any city. The expansion of the program 
is just one example of how lessons learned from Detroit’s successes are being 
applied — and adapted — to fit the unique needs of cities around the country.
40
www.jpmorganchase.com/crBEYOND DETROIT
FINANCIAL HEALTH
THEFINANCIAL  SOLUTIONS LAB
UNLOCKING INNOVATION TO BOOST FINANCIAL HEALTH
JPMorgan Chase believes that technology 
can be an important tool to help 
Americans get on solid financial ground. 
The Financial Solutions Lab (FinLab) — a $30 million, five-year virtual lab initiative 
managed by the Center for Financial 
Services Innovation (CFSI) with founding partner JPMorgan Chase — is just one 
example of our firm’s efforts to boost the 
financial health of families and individuals around the world. 
Through FinLab, we are harnessing the 
power of technology and the innovation of 
entrepreneurs with a series of challenges to identify and expand the reach of the 
next generation of financial products and 
services to meet the needs of struggling consumers. FinLab’s inaugural challenge  
in 2015 focused on solving consumer  
cash flow issues. 
In 2016 FinLab set its sights on solutions 
to weathering financial shocks. The 
winners each offered a solution to this issue, such as a mobile app that provides 
financial advice, a service that offers 
digital alternatives to checking and savings accounts and a program that gives 
working families tools to achieve financial 
goals like saving for college or buying a first home. FinLab provided each winning 
organization with $250,000 in capital, 
support from FinLab operating partners IDEO.org and ideas42, strategic  
guidance from its industry-leading 
advisory council, and resources from founding partners CFSI and JPMorgan 
Chase, including the JPMorgan Chase 
employee mentorship program. Since its inception, FinLab has supported 
18 financial technology companies 
offering innovative financial products 
to help more than 1 million Americans 
improve their financial health — a 
tenfold increase since joining the lab. 
Collectively, FinLab companies have 
raised over $100 million in capital since 
joining the program. In addition, more 
than 100 JPMorgan Chase employees 
have volunteered their expertise and  
leveraged their networks to help the 
winners improve their products and 
increase their reach. 
“The consumer impact of FinLab 
companies to date has been really 
astounding,” said Ryan Falvey, managing 
director at CFSI. “First-year Lab winner 
Digit, for example, has helped clients save 
more than $350 million. And Earn, part  
of the lab’s second class, found that  83 percent of its clients develop a habit 
of saving, with low-income households 
saving an average of $558 over six 
months. We expect this level of impact  
to continue with the next class of  FinLab innovators.” 
Based on research from JPMorgan Chase, 
CFSI and other thought leaders, the third 
challenge is seeking solutions to promote the financial health of often overlooked 
populations, including people of color,  
the aging, people with disabilities and  low-income women. 
JPMORGAN CHASE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
41BEYOND DETROIT  
MODEL IN ACTION
LONDON
APPLYING STRATEGIES   
FOR INCLUSIVE GROWTH  
East London 
RisingBy Vis Raghavan, Deputy 
CEO for Europe, the 
Middle East and Africa,  
JPMorgan Chase & Co .
Our firm has deep roots in London, with a presence 
here for more than 200 years. Over the past decade, 
London’s rapidly growing financial center has shifted 
from its historic home in the City of London to East 
London. This shift has heralded huge changes for the 
boroughs of East London, including more economic 
activity, jobs and development.
As East London booms, however, these new opportunities are  
not reaching everyone equally — especially those who have 
lived and worked here since before the area’s ascendance. In 
fact, some East London boroughs still struggle with stubborn 
economic challenges. 
To address these inequities, JPMorgan Chase is taking a long-
term, holistic and multifaceted approach to its corporate 
responsibility efforts in East London so that the area’s newfound 
prosperity can be more equally shared.
In 2012 the firm relocated from the City of London to Canary 
Wharf, boosting our presence in this thriving area of energy 
and growth. Our collaborative relationships with London 
Legacy Development Corporation and leading local nonprofit 
efforts such as Bromley by Bow Centre and the St. Paul’s Way 
Transformation Project helped us establish a strong connection 
with the community. Now we are proud to say that our work in 
East London has created a positive impact through our support of 
efforts to build a skilled workforce, strengthen small businesses 
and boost the financial health of individuals and families. The rate of 
employment in four 
East London boroughs 
is approximately 
5% 
LOWER
than that of the rest  
of London.
www.jpmorganchase.com/cr 42There is no one-size-fits-all 
solution to this problem. 
Yet through meeting local 
communities and leveraging 
our competencies to invest in 
the four key drivers of inclusive 
economic growth, our firm has 
gained valuable insight into 
the broad approaches that are 
proving effective in cities  
around the world.  “The new East London is a place where diversity and 
cultural vibrancy meet growing economic prosperity .   
It’s crucial that no one is left behind and that East 
Londoners have opportunities to both contribute to  
and benefit from economic growth.”
Paul Brickell,  Executive Director of  Regeneration and Community 
Partnerships, London Legacy Development Corporation
In East London, we are supporting a broad range of organizations by focusing 
our investments in areas that best leverage our firm’s skills and expertise. 
Here are some examples:
At Saint Paul’s Way Trust Schoo l, a fast-paced, 
high-achieving school that serves some of the most 
disadvantaged communities in East London, JPMorgan 
Chase funded the Enterprise & Employability Project  
for students to practice business skills, learn about 
entrepreneurship and gain confidence through 
real-life work experiences. The project also includes 
mentorships and paid internships for students so they 
can develop one-on-one relationships with people in 
their field of interest. 
YTKO Group  has advised both new and established 
entrepreneurs on growing their business. With 
funding from JPMorgan Chase, YTKO’s GetSet for 
Growth East London program works with small 
businesses that are looking to expand, by providing 
specialized finance, marketing and sales support — 
the areas of biggest need for entrepreneurs. As part 
of the successful program, business development 
experts serve as mentors to local business owners to 
help increase their skills, knowledge and confidence.
Based on the idea that most people get 
financial advice from people they know, 
Toynbee Hall’s Money Mentors  program 
educates and trains local residents on money 
management. After a successful pilot, 
JPMorgan Chase provided funding to  
expand the program to an additional six 
boroughs and train 22 staff members of 
partner organizations.
43 JPMORGAN CHASE  CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTTHE BIG PICTURE
In your experience…
what builds the strongest bonds between  
businesses and the communities they serve?
DAN GILBERT
Founder and Chairman, 
Quicken Loans &  
Rock Ventures
“The people. Detroiters 
and Clevelanders are 
hard-working, innovative 
and creative. At Quicken 
Loans and our family of 
companies, we leverage 
these attributes and 
empower our team 
members to go out and 
make a difference in 
the local communities 
where they live, work 
and play. The world has 
heard of nonprofits and 
for-profits, but a company 
that incorporates a 
‘more-than-profit’ core 
business strategy sets the 
stage for future growth. I 
wholeheartedly believe that 
because our nearly 30,000 
team members work in 
downtown urban cores of 
Detroit and Cleveland,  
they feel more fully 
dedicated and are better  
at their day jobs as they 
play a part in the greater 
mission of growing a 
thriving local community.”
GAIL J. MCGOVERN
President and CEO, 
American Red Cross
“In my experience, 
businesses engender trust 
when they reinvest in the 
communities they serve 
and when their employees 
are engaged as volunteers. 
These actions can take many 
forms — from supporting 
local preparedness and 
emergency relief to installing 
smoke alarms in vulnerable 
neighborhoods, to serving 
meals in food kitchens, to 
mentoring youth in after-
school programs. All of these 
activities work to ensure 
that businesses are firmly 
rooted in the fabric of their 
communities. In addition, 
I believe it’s important 
that businesses hire 
employees who accurately 
reflect the diversity of the 
communities they serve, 
that they establish open 
communication and  
positive relationships with 
local governments and  
that they strive to be 
responsive and accessible  
to their customers and  
other stakeholders.”
JACQUES PANIS
President, Shinola
“When we first came to 
Detroit five years ago, 
we saw a city with a rich 
heritage in manufacturing 
and a population of people 
who collectively wanted 
to work on shaping the 
future of this town. With 
the mission of creating 
world-class manufacturing 
jobs in the U.S., we made 
an investment in this city 
because we knew there 
was a future here, but we 
needed the support of the 
community behind us to 
be successful. We forged a 
strong bond between our 
business and our community 
simply by doing what we said 
we would do. For the 350+ 
people we have working 
in Detroit and over 600 
globally, we are proving daily 
that their well-being matters 
to us. We believe in good 
jobs, jobs that pay livable 
wages and afford people the 
opportunity to grow within 
the organization. We foster 
people to become leaders 
and encourage them to 
have a positive influence 
inside and outside of the 
workplace. As we scale,  
our mission stays central  
so we can do the same in 
other communities across 
the country.”
JANET MURGUÍA
President and CEO, 
National Council of   
La Raza
“From my experience, I’ve 
seen that we are stronger 
and more effective when we 
collaborate and work across 
sectors and communities 
than if we try to tackle 
problems alone.  
That’s why it is important 
to have companies like 
JPMorgan Chase as  
partners to help meet  
those challenges.   
When businesses bring 
their expertise and a 
commitment to help create 
innovative solutions — and 
nonprofit organizations 
bring their knowledge, 
understanding and values  
to the table — that helps  
all of us.”
44
www.jpmorganchase.com/crIn your experience…
what builds the strongest bonds between  
businesses and the communities they serve?
LEBRON JAMES
Founder, LeBron James 
Family Foundation
“The key for me, in 
everything I do, is 
authenticity. In order to 
create real, long-term 
change and to build 
meaningful relationships, 
it has to be authentic. With 
the LeBron James Family 
Foundation, almost all 
of our partners are local 
businesses, because they 
understand our needs 
and care about our kids. 
Our kids are the future, so 
their investment in these 
students is an investment 
in our community. And 
because they live here and 
work here, that means 
something to them. The 
support we get from our 
community partners is 
what our ‘we are family’ 
philosophy is all about, and 
that to me is the strongest 
bond you can have between 
businesses and the 
communities they serve.”
MICHAEL PORTER
Bishop William Lawrence 
University Professor, Harvard 
Business School
“Businesses create 
critical jobs and economic 
opportunity not only in the 
communities where they 
are located, but throughout 
the broader economy. Job 
creation, together with 
skill development, has 
the greatest potential to 
expand participation in the 
workforce, combat rising 
income inequality and grow 
our country’s prosperity 
and competitiveness. 
In distressed inner-city 
neighborhoods, leveraging 
the job and wealth creation 
power of businesses 
(and small businesses 
in particular) is the only 
sustainable and scalable 
approach to revitalization 
that will truly move the 
needle. We need community-
based programs in inner 
cities that will improve 
the business environment, 
helping inner-city businesses 
become more competitive 
and access the employees 
they want to hire. The net 
result will be a win-win 
outcome. As the businesses 
prosper and grow, so will our 
inner cities.”
SADIQ KHAN
Mayor of  London 
“I want London to be a 
place where members of all 
communities can flourish, 
whatever their background. 
A key part of delivering 
my promise to be the most 
pro-business mayor London 
has ever had is ensuring 
businesses of all sizes are 
committed to fairness.
For instance, I am absolutely 
determined to drive up 
gender equality across 
industry and I’m proud to say 
City Hall is already leading 
by example. Last year, I 
published a full gender pay 
audit for my staff and all 
functional bodies across the 
Greater London Authority 
family, while more than half 
the members of my Business 
Advisory Board are female. 
In addition, I announced an 
increase in the London Living 
Wage, which is being offered 
by more employers than 
ever before. This is a win-
win, as employees feel more 
valued while businesses can 
attract and retain staff.
I’m clear that economic 
fairness is not just about 
doing the right thing: It 
makes good business 
sense too. A fairer city is 
healthier, safer and more 
prosperous.”
VIRGINIA M. ROMETTY
Chairman, President and 
CEO, IBM Corporation
“A deep commitment 
to collaboration and 
partnership by focusing 
our best efforts on the 
most pressing challenges 
facing society is what 
builds the strongest bonds 
between businesses 
and the communities 
they serve. As essential 
partners in corporate 
responsibility leadership, 
IBM and JPMorgan Chase 
have worked together on 
Corporate Service Corps 
engagements in Brazil and 
India to assist community 
efforts to stimulate 
economic growth. By 
providing our best talent 
to work in tandem with 
civic leaders to promote 
growth in cities like Detroit, 
we both have focused on 
efforts to address critical 
societal needs. And we 
both have focused our best 
efforts in partnership with 
educators to improve our 
schools’ ability to connect 
education to college and 
career and close the skills 
gap. But while we both have 
achieved much to be proud 
of, we still believe that there 
is much more to do.”
JPMORGAN CHASE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
45IN MEMORIAM: DAVID ROCKEFELLER (1915–2017)
“If government is going to get out 
of a lot of things, somebody has 
to take their place. It seems to 
me that business and the private 
sector — which pushed for this — has to 
assume some responsibility. If so, then 
it means that the leaders of business 
and of not-for-profit corporations should 
recognize that they have a responsibility 
outside their own businesses to do 
something for society at large.” 
DEC. 1, 1998
David Rockefeller,  the former Chase Manhattan chairman and CEO, will long be  
remembered for his impact on philanthropy, the arts, business and global affairs.
LEARN MORE  
ABOUT JPMORGAN CHASE’S CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY EFFORTS
Learn more about how JPMorgan Chase is using its scale, resources and expertise to 
open pathways to economic opportunity around the world, by signing up for Global 
Strength, Local Impact , our quarterly corporate responsibility newsletter, at:  
www.jpmorganchase.com/corporateresponsibility    
For more information on how JPMorgan Chase & Co. manages environmental, social 
and governance issues within our business, see www.jpmorganchase.com/esg
“JPMorgan Chase,” “J.P. Morgan,” “Chase,” the Octagon symbol and other words or 
symbols in this report that identify JPMorgan Chase services are service marks of 
JPMorgan Chase & Co. Other words or symbols in this report that identify other parties’ 
goods or services may be trademarks or service marks of those other parties.  
©2017 JPMorgan Chase & Co. All rights reserved.