Sustainability 
report
2018/192 I Sustainability report 2018/19Our sustainability strategy covers four areas 
which we take into account when making 
key business decisions: the communities 
in which we operate; our people; the 
relationships we have with our customers 
and suppliers; and the environment. 
Responsibility for our sustainability strategy 
sits with our Chief Executive.
Our sustainability strategy is fully integrated 
and aligned with our business strategy. It is 
underpinned by three key objectives:
  To use our expertise in 
communications technology to 
create a positive impact on all our 
stakeholders and the communities  
in which we operate;
 To promote our values, both 
internally and in the way we do 
business with external stakeholders; 
and 
 To engage and empower our 
people so they can make a positive 
contribution to our sustainability 
strategy and the causes that matter 
to them.
Community
Our aim is to operate in a way that benets local 
communities as well as supporting our strategic 
business aims. Our signicant presence in Hull 
and East Yorkshire, in terms of both employees 
and customers, means our business decisions 
are made with consideration of the potential 
impact on that community in mind.
Environment
We believe all businesses have a responsibility 
to minimise any negative impact they have on 
the environment and we make decisions with 
environmental sustainability in mind.Customers and suppliers
Sustainable relationships with customers and 
suppliers are vital to our success. We have a 
responsibility to treat them fairly and with the 
highest ethical standards, and to do business in 
a way that has a positive effect on them and on 
society more widely.People
Much of the value we deliver to customers is 
through the expertise and experience of our 
people. Our sustainability relies on our ability 
to attract people with the right skills and 
behaviours and to motivate, develop, support, 
recognise and reward them appropriately.
- Page 7- Page 6- Page 4- Page 3
1
2
3Sustainability3 I Sustainability report 2018/19We aim to operate in a way that benefits local 
communities as well as supporting our strategic 
business aims. Our significant presence in Hull 
and East Yorkshire means we make certain 
business decisions with the potential impact 
of that community in mind. Our community 
relations programme is focused on activities 
which support the growth and sustainability of 
the region’s economy and which increase life 
opportunities for residents.
Playing our part in the local 
business community
During the year we continued to be an active 
member of local business organisations. We 
are a Principal Partner of Humber Bondholders, 
which promotes the region as a destination 
for inward investment; a Key Partner of For 
Entrepreneurs Only, a community interest 
company that helps local entrepreneurs create 
jobs and wealth; and a Partner of C4DI (Centre 
For Digital Innovation), a technology hub that 
is helping to drive the development of the 
region’s digital sector. We are also joint hosts 
of the annual Hull and Humber Tech Awards, 
which showcase success in the region’s digital 
economy.
Supporting the region’s  
young people
As a major employer and supplier of services 
in the region we have a stake in inspiring the 
next generation and helping local young people 
reach their full potential by giving them the 
skills and confidence to excel in a digital world.
During the year we supported learning 
activities in schools and colleges across the 
region. We engaged with 19 primary schools, 
offering two education programmes: our 
“Simnet Challenge”, an interactive session 
that teaches children how the internet works; 
and our new, day-long “KCOM Key Skills” 
programme, through which pupils learn about 
effective communication, staying safe online 
and spotting fake news.We continued our partnership with Ron Dearing 
University Technical College, through which 
we provide learning support for STEM subjects 
(science, technology, engineering and maths). 
We also supported the college and 21 other 
secondary schools and colleges with their 
careers provision, participating in careers 
fairs and talks, mock interview sessions and 
employability skills days.
Charity and community support
During the year we supported over 100 
community groups in Hull and East 
Yorkshire by donating funds, employee time 
and business services.
We introduced charity committees in 
our main offices to replace our previous 
national charity partnership programme 
to give employees the opportunity to 
support charities and community groups 
local to them. Through these committees 
we donated more than £30,000 during the 
year to regional charities including Glossop 
Mountain Rescue, Wakefield Hospice and 
Exeter Neo-Natal Unit as well as local 
branches of national charities such as Mind, 
Macmillan Cancer Care and British Heart 
Foundation.
We have continued our patronage of The 
Prince’s Trust, the UK’s leading youth 
charity, which changes young lives by 
offering training, personal development, 
business start-up support, advice and 
mentoring.Community
Our people spent 1,770 hours 
volunteering.
We held learning activities in 40 local 
school and colleges.
We provided support to over 100 local 
charities and community groups.4 I Sustainability report 2018/19Much of the value we deliver to customers is 
through the expertise and experience of our 
people. Our sustainability relies on our ability 
to attract people with the right skills and 
behaviours and to motivate, develop, support 
and reward them appropriately.
Reward and recognition
As part of our commitment to recognising 
and valuing the contribution our people make 
to our business, during the year we adopted 
the real living wage as the minimum salary 
for employees. As well as allowing people to 
meet the costs of living based on independent 
calculations, paying real living wage rates 
brings the potential benefits of increased 
retention and differentiation in the recruitment 
market for apprenticeships and other  
entry-level roles.
We also understand the importance of 
recognition in boosting employee engagement, 
satisfaction and productivity. Following a 
careful review of our approach to recognition, 
at the start of the year we introduced a new, 
peer-to-peer recognition platform through 
which our people can acknowledge and reward 
the work and actions of their colleagues. The 
platform has been well-received: it has been 
used by over 500 employees to give 2,965 
acknowledgements since it was launched.
We have also introduced a new, more 
personalised approach to recognising 
long service that allows us to mark service 
milestones in a way that is more meaningful for 
employees.
Employee wellbeing
Through our wellbeing programme we aim 
to encourage the physical and mental health 
and wellbeing of our people by providing 
information, self-help tools and support.During the year we increased our focus on 
raising awareness of mental health issues and 
support for employees experiencing poor 
mental health. As part of this, 32 employees 
across our main sites have now been fully 
trained as Mental Health First Aiders so they 
can help guide people in distress to relevant 
help, have the knowledge to identify people 
who may be developing a mental health issue, 
and intervene before an issue potentially 
escalates. Many of our people managers have 
also taken part in mental health awareness 
training to help them identify and support team 
members who may be experiencing a mental 
health issue.
Our annual free confidential health screening 
sessions were attended by 463 employees 
across our eight main sites. These sessions help 
employees identify potential health problems.
Gender diversity and pay
We have clear policies in place to ensure men 
and women are given equal opportunities 
throughout their careers with us.
We’re committed to providing equal 
opportunities and will not tolerate 
discrimination of any kind. We do this 
by making sure everyone has the same 
opportunities to grow and succeed.
Our people are expected to embrace a 
culture of diversity and to act respectfully and 
with consideration for others. We’re always 
exploring how we can help every member 
of our team make the most of their talents 
through:
•  Fair and equal promotion and pay policies;
•  Transparent recruitment processes;
•  Individual career development; and
•  Ensuring a healthy work/life balance;People5 I Sustainability report 2018/19As at the end of the year the gender diversity of 
the Group was as set out below:
Male Female Female%
Board  
Directors3 3 40%
Executive 
Leadership 
Team (ELT)16 3 33%
Other  
Emplyees1043 493 32%
1 The ELT is defined as the senior leaders who have overall responsibility 
for key functional areas. It includes Executive Board Directors Graham 
Sutherland and Anna Bielby.
Our most recent gender pay gap report, based 
on the snapshot date of 4 April 2018, showed a 
mean pay gap of 30.6% and a median pay gap 
of 35.2%. On a like-for-like basis, we have seen 
little movement in our gender pay figures since 
the previous report, highlighting that there 
remains much work to be done to bring greater 
balance to our business.
We are committed to achieving this balance 
and have a series of initiatives in place to reach 
our goal. The Board of Directors is also focused 
on driving improvement in this area. Based 
on our assessment that the current pay gap is 
principally driven by the ratio of male to female 
employees within certain specific functional 
areas of our business, such as the traditionally 
male-dominated technical and engineering 
workstreams, we are placing significant focus 
on encouraging more diverse participation in 
these areas. Our efforts include participation 
in schools-based activities to encourage more 
girls and young women to consider careers in 
technology and engineering.
Human rights
We respect fundamental human rights 
consistent with the United Nations Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights and we ensure 
that all of our internal policies are consistent 
with this. We do not have any current human 
rights issues.6 I Sustainability report 2018/19Sustainable relationships with customers and 
suppliers are vital to our success. We have a 
responsibility to treat customers fairly, with the 
highest ethical standards, and to do business 
in a way that has a positive effect on them and 
society more widely. 
Relationships with customers
We also believe we have a responsibility to our 
customers to tackle issues that are important 
to them in relation to the products and services 
they buy from us.
In our Hull and East Yorkshire market we 
have continued to strive to address the 
barriers to digital inclusion faced by many 
in the community. In addition to hosting our 
own regular internet drop -in sessions, where 
customers can develop their online skills in a 
relaxed environment, we have continued to 
work with local authorities to facilitate similar 
events in local libraries and to train “digital 
champions” who can provide support in 
community centres to residents who wish to do 
more online.
We have continued to raise awareness among 
our customers of online safety issues. As well 
as giving online safety talks to children in local 
primary schools, through our support of leading 
online safety organisation Internet Matters 
we are able to raise awareness of online risks 
among parents and carers and signpost them 
towards the best guidance to reduce these 
risks.
We are committed to treating all our customers 
with understanding and respect, including 
those who are in a vulnerable situation, whether 
caused by age, injury, physical or mental illness, 
physical or learning disability or by events 
such as bereavement. We aim to provide extra 
help and assistance to vulnerable consumers 
wherever we can. During the year we have 
increased our efforts to ensure all our people 
are aware of how vulnerability can affect 
consumers and the support and services we 
offer. We have also carried out role-specific training 
to help colleagues in frontline roles gain a 
deeper understanding of vulnerability so they 
are able to identify and help consumers who 
may need extra support.
Relationships with suppliers
As well as treating our suppliers fairly and 
doing business with them in a sustainable 
way, we also have a responsibility to make 
sure that our suppliers operate with high 
ethical standards.
We therefore expect suppliers to sign up to 
our Supplier and Partner Code of Conduct 
and we work closely with key suppliers 
to ensure we understand their approach 
to sustainability and the way in which 
their business operates. We also carry out 
regular credit checks on all suppliers.
In addition, our business continuity planning 
activities place significant focus on ensuring 
that in the event that key suppliers are 
affected by a business disruption we are 
able to continue supplying services to our 
customers. We test our business continuity 
plans regularly to ensure continuous 
improvement.
We are committed to doing all we can 
to assist in the eradication of slavery 
and human trafficking. We have a zero 
tolerance approach to any slavery or human 
trafficking activity within our business or in 
our supply chain. Our most recent Modern 
Slavery Act Transparency Statement is 
available on our website  
www.kcomltd.com.
Customers and suppliers7 I Sustainability report 2018/19Breakdown of our emissions
Emissions in the year
The table below sets out our annual emissions in tonnes of CO2e.
Year ended  
31 March 2019 CO2eYear ended  
31 March 20181 CO2e
Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 2,725 2,934
Purchase of electricity 10,296 13,222
Total 13,021 16,156
Tonnes of CO2e per £’000 of revenue 0.046 0.054Environment
Premises – electricity 79.10%
Premises – other fuel and waste 9.50%
Business travel 11.40%We believe all businesses have a responsibility 
to minimise any negative impact they have on 
the environment and consequently we make 
decisions with environmental sustainability in 
mind.
Our biggest environmental impact comes 
from the electricity we use in our offices, 
data centres and various network sites, both 
nationally and in the Hull and East Yorkshire 
region. During the year 79.1% of our CO2e 
emissions came from our electricity usage.
Each year we seek to reduce our emissions 
wherever possible through various 
energy -saving schemes. In the year the CO2e 
tonnes produced from our electricity usage 
has fallen by 2,926 tonnes (22.1%). This reflects 
a three per cent reduction in the number 
of kilowatt hours of electricity used. This 
is compared to the prior year and a lower carbon factor published by the Department for 
Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy, which 
are the factors we use each year to calculate the 
conversion of our electricity usage and other 
carbon emissions into CO2e tonnes.
We continually review and improve the 
recycling facilities we have in place at our 
offices, with the aim of making it as easy as 
possible for our people to recycle any waste we 
produce. Over 97% of our waste is recycled, 
with the actual tonnage of waste that has gone 
to landfill falling significantly from  
17.5 tonnes to 6.2 tonnes. This was our first full 
year with a new waste management supplier 
and consequently much more of our waste is 
now recycled as Refuse Derived Fuel (RDF).  
The amount of waste we send to landfill during 
the next few years is expected to be of a similar 
level to that of the past 12 months.Our carbon emissions from combustion of fuel and operation of facilities has fallen in the year by 
7% due to reduced usage of refrigerant gases.
Information for our carbon emissions reporting comes from our own internal systems, third party 
travel companies, suppliers of fuel, waste collection and recycling services and from our electricity 
supplier.
Area ActualTarget for the year under 
reviewTarget 
met?Future target for 
2019/20
Total CO2e 13,021 tonnesNot to exceed 2017/18 
levels of 16,156 tonnesYesNot to exceed 2018/19 
levels of 13,021 tonnes
Waste sent to 
landfill6 tonnesNo target was set in 
2018/19N/ANot to exceed 2018/19 
levels of waste to 
landfill
Energy efficiency 
in transport1,491 tonnesNot to exceed 1,432 
tonnesNoNot to exceed 2018/19 
levels of 1,491 tonnes
 
8 I Sustainability report 2018/19