Sustainability 
report
2019/202 I Sustainability report 2019/20We are committed to operating in a sustainable 
way. When making key business decisions we 
consider their potential impact on:
> the communities in which we operate; 
> our people; 
> our customers and supply chain; and 
> the environment. 
Our sustainability strategy is underpinned 
by three objectives:
  To use our communications 
technology expertise and services 
to create a positive impact on 
stakeholders and minimise our 
impact on the environment; 
 To promote our values, both as an 
employer and in our dealings with 
external stakeholders; and 
 To engage and empower our people 
to make a positive contribution to 
our sustainability strategy. 
Community
Our aim is to operate in a way that benets local 
communities as well as supporting our strategic 
business aims. Our signicant presence in Hull 
and East Yorkshire, in terms of both employees 
and customers, means our business decisions 
are made with consideration of the potential 
impact on that community in mind.
Environment
We believe all businesses have a responsibility 
to minimise any negative impact they have on 
the environment and we make decisions with 
environmental sustainability in mind.Customers and suppliers
Sustainable relationships with customers and 
suppliers are vital to our success. We have a 
responsibility to treat them fairly and with the 
highest ethical standards, and to do business in 
a way that has a positive effect on them and on 
society more widely.People
Much of the value we deliver to customers is 
through the expertise and experience of our 
people. Our sustainability relies on our ability 
to attract people with the right skills and 
behaviours and to motivate, develop, support, 
recognise and reward them appropriately.
Page - 10Page 8Page - 5Page 3
1
2
3Sustainability3 I Sustainability report 2019/20We aim to operate in a way that benefits local 
communities as well as supporting our strategic 
business aims. Our significant presence in Hull 
and East Yorkshire – both as a major employer 
and as the region’s main communications 
provider – means we consider the impact on 
this community when making certain business 
decisions. Our community relations programme 
is focused on activities which support the 
growth and sustainability of the region’s 
economy and which increase life opportunities 
for residents.
Playing our part in the local 
business community
During the year we continued to be 
an active member of local business 
organisations. We are a Principal 
Partner of Humber Bondholders, which 
promotes the region as a destination for 
inward investment; a Key Partner of For 
Entrepreneurs Only, a community interest 
company that helps local entrepreneurs 
create jobs and wealth; and a Partner of 
C4DI (Centre For Digital Innovation), a 
technology hub that is helping to drive the 
development of the region’s digital sector. 
We also supported Humber Business 
Week, the region’s flagship event for 
business and entrepreneurship; and the 
inaugural Tech Expo Humber, a two-day 
exhibition and conference to highlight and 
grow the local technology scene.
Supporting the region’s  
young people
As a major employer and supplier of services 
in the region we are committed to inspiring the 
next generation and helping local young people 
reach their full potential by giving them the 
skills and confidence to excel in a digital world.
During the year – through the keen 
participation of our Hull-based employees 
– we supported learning activities across the region, increasing both the number of 
schools and colleges we engaged with and the 
number of activities we delivered compared 
to the previous year. More than half of the 
1,655 volunteering hours our employees spent 
supporting the community during the year were 
in schools and colleges.
We engaged with 26 primary schools through 
74 separate events or activities. These included 
41 sessions of our “Simnet Challenge”, an 
interactive session that teaches children how 
the internet works; and 26 sessions of our 
increasingly popular and relevant day-long 
“KCOM Key Skills” programme, through which 
pupils learn about effective communication, 
staying safe online and spotting fake news.
We supported 25 secondary schools and 
colleges, taking part in 52 events or activities 
including 22 careers fairs and events and 20 
employability skills sessions covering areas 
including interview techniques and responsible 
use of social media.
We continued our partnership with Ron Dearing 
University Technical College, through which 
we provide learning support for STEM subjects 
(science, technology, engineering and maths). 
Other STEM activities we supported included 
the STEM 2019 event, Teen Tech 2019 and the 
regional WiME (Women into Manufacturing 
and Engineering) exhibition. 
Charity and community support
During the year we supported over 60 
community groups and charities in Hull and 
East Yorkshire by donating funds, employee 
time and business services. 
We relaunched our long-established KCOM 
Community Grants scheme, through which 
we award 12 grants each year to local charities 
seeking funding for projects or events. In 
addition to doubling the value of each grant 
to £1,000, we have increased community 
involvement and engagement in the scheme by 
introducing an online voting process that Community4 I Sustainability report 2019/20enables members of the public to vote for the 
charity or community group they feel most 
deserves our support from a shortlist of six.
In addition to our grants scheme, we 
supported local charities and community 
groups by providing employee volunteering 
time; free use of our city centre Learning Zone 
for meetings and events; and raffle prizes for 
fundraising activities. 
In the early weeks of the COVID-19 pandemic 
we made our employees and vehicles available 
to local community hubs to help with the 
delivery of essential supplies to vulnerable 
residents across East Yorkshire. We also made 
donations to local foodbanks at that time to 
support their efforts in responding to peaks in 
demand caused by increased financial hardship.
The desire of our people to make a positive 
difference in the communities we serve was 
demonstrated through employee collections 
of food and other items for Hull Foodbank 
and homeless charities and our annual 
Christmas appeal for gifts for children from 
disadvantaged communities. 
Beyond Hull and East Yorkshire, charity 
committees at our main offices continued to 
coordinate employee support for community 
groups and projects local to them, combining 
social activities with fundraising opportunities. 
Through activities organised by the committees 
our employees donated more than £5,000 
during the year to regional branches of charities 
including Mind, RSPCA, Shelter and Macmillan 
Cancer Care.
We continued our patronage of The Prince’s 
Trust, the UK’s leading youth charity, which 
changes young lives by offering training, 
personal development, business start-up 
support, advice and mentoring. 
Much of the value we deliver to customers is 
through the expertise and experience of our 
people. Our sustainability relies on our ability 
to attract people with the right skills and 
behaviours and to motivate, develop, support 
and reward them appropriately.5 I Sustainability report 2019/20Much of the value we deliver to customers is 
through the expertise and experience of our 
people. Our sustainability relies on our ability 
to attract people with the right skills and 
behaviours and to motivate, develop, support 
and reward them appropriately.
Employee wellbeing
Through our wellbeing programme we aim 
to encourage the physical and mental health 
and wellbeing of our people by providing 
information, self-help tools and support.
During the year we increased our focus on 
raising awareness of mental health issues and 
support for employees experiencing poor 
mental health. As well as regularly promoting 
the support available from our fully trained 
Mental Health First Aiders many of our people 
managers took part in a two-day learning 
programme to help them identify and support 
team members and other colleagues who may 
be experiencing a mental health issue.
We continued to use national awareness 
platforms such as Time To Talk Day and Mental 
Health Awareness Week to put a spotlight 
on and help reduce the stigma surrounding 
mental health problems, running activities in 
conjunction with charities Mind and RSPCA 
to help our people manage their own mental 
wellbeing. We recognise that organisational 
change can be a source of stress and during 
the year offered half-day learning sessions to 
all employees to help them manage themselves 
and support others through change. 
We worked with a new provider of health 
screening sessions to improve the employee 
experience of these annual confidential 
tests, which aim to help employees identify 
potential health problems. Of the 27 per cent of 
employees who attended a session, 99 per cent 
rated it excellent or very good and 71 per cent 
said they intended to make positive lifestyle 
changes following the session.Having begun to monitor and plan for the 
impact of the COVID-19 pandemic in January, 
we were well prepared with measures 
to protect the health and safety of our 
employees as soon as they were required, 
in line with all the relevant government 
guidance. With the vast majority of our 
people able to work effectively from home 
we implemented this in advance of official 
government advice to do so, assisting them to 
settle into new ways of working and helping 
them adapt to home schooling.
For employees who remained in our offices 
we put in place measures including social 
distancing and deep cleaning to limit the risk  
of infection. 
Measures to protect our field engineers, 
who are classed as key workers, included the 
provision of high-quality personal protective 
equipment and clear guidance regarding safe 
working practices.
Throughout the pandemic we have continued 
to provide advice and support to our people 
relating to their health, safety and wellbeing. 
Employee engagement
We recognise employee engagement as a key 
factor in motivating and retaining people and 
aim to create an environment where our people 
can have meaningful input into decisions that 
affect their working lives.
The regular employee engagement surveys 
we conduct highlight opportunities to make 
improvements and address any areas of 
concern at a business-wide level, as well as 
giving people managers timely feedback and 
insight into how they can support and increase 
engagement among their teams.
Throughout the process of being acquired 
by new owners we supplemented existing 
communications and engagement channels 
with additional face-to-face briefings to 
update employees on developments and 
answer their questions.People6 I Sustainability report 2019/20We consult with our people on planned 
organisational change on an ongoing basis 
through our Employee Voice Forum, which 
has representation from across our business 
and provides an opportunity for colleagues to 
give feedback on change programmes. Our 
employee ideas scheme, Brainwaves, gives our 
people the opportunity to make suggestions 
aimed at improving our business.
Recruitment, selection  
and onboarding
During the year we reviewed our recruitment, 
selection and onboarding processes and began 
a programme of improvements to enhance our 
ability to recruit the best people and introduce 
them to our business in a way that enables 
them to make the most of their capabilities as 
early as possible. 
We have:
> Sought to widen the pool of potential 
candidates for our roles by highlighting our 
commitment to inclusiveness and diversity: 
for example, by promoting that we are 
registered as a ‘disability confident’  
employer throughout the advertising and 
application process;
> Carried out direct recruitment wherever 
possible to improve engagement with 
candidates and better convey the benefits  
we offer;
> Enhanced the onboarding process to improve 
the experience of new starters at every 
touchpoint of their early relationship with us, 
from their acceptance of our employment 
offer through to their extended induction 
period; and 
> Placed increased focus on building a pipeline 
of potential future applicants for roles where 
we are likely to face future demand. Ongoing 
activities to support this include regular 
attendance at careers events and the creation 
of ‘talent pools’ for entry-level roles in areas 
such as field engineering.Learning and development
To make it easier for our people to gain access 
to and make the most of all the learning 
opportunities available to them we have 
introduced the Academy, a new learning and 
development platform that brings together 
content, e-learning and workshops on areas 
including health and safety, regulation and 
compliance, finance and leadership. 
In recognition of the importance of developing 
future leaders throughout the business,  
during the year we introduced two new 
leadership programmes. 
> Our ‘Aspire’ programme is a 12 to 14-month 
team leader / supervisor apprenticeship 
designed to build a pipeline of early career 
technical and leadership talent with the 
potential to progress to more senior roles in 
the business. 
> ‘Inspire’ is a 4-month foundation level 
leadership programme covering the core 
skills required for leading people, including 
performance management and change 
management. 
41 employees took part in these programmes 
during the year.
Reward and recognition
Our overall approach to reward is to pay our 
people appropriately for the role they perform, 
using market rates that are based on robust, 
externally validated benchmarking data and 
reviewed annually.
We aim to pay people the median of the market 
rate, recognising their level of development in 
the role.
We introduced a more structured approach to 
the pay review process during the year to drive 
greater consistency and fairness and provide 
more transparency for employees in how their 
pay is determined.
As part of our commitment to recognising and 
valuing the contribution our people make to 
our business, we continue to pay the real living 7 I Sustainability report 2019/20wage as the minimum salary for employees and 
apply any increases to it as early as is feasible.
Our peer-to-peer recognition platform, 
through which our people can acknowledge 
and reward the efforts and contribution of 
their colleagues through a thankyou message 
or by nominating them to receive a shopping 
voucher, continues to be well-used. During  
the year 565 employees gave a total of  
2,327 acknowledgments to colleagues.
Gender diversity and pay
We have clear policies in place to ensure men 
and women are given equal opportunities 
throughout their careers with us.
We are committed to providing equal 
opportunities and will not tolerate 
discrimination of any kind. We do this 
by making sure everyone has the same 
opportunities to grow and succeed.
Our people are expected to embrace a 
culture of diversity and to act respectfully 
and with consideration for others. We are 
always exploring how we can help every 
member of our team make the most of their 
talents through:
> Fair and equal promotion and pay policies
> Transparent recruitment processes
> Individual career development
> Ensuring a healthy work/life balance
As at 31 March 2020 the gender diversity of the 
business was as set out below:
Male Female Female %
Board  
Directors5 0 0%
Executive 
Leadership 
Team (ELT)1.6 1 14%
Other  
employees927 417 31%
1 The ELT is defined as the senior leaders who have overall responsibility for 
key functional areas. It includes Board member Dale Raneberg.Our most recent gender pay gap report, based 
on the snapshot date of 5 April 2019, showed 
a mean pay gap of 29.8 per cent and a median 
pay gap of 36.8 per cent. The long-term nature 
of the work we need to do to bring greater 
balance to our business is reflected in the 
minimal shift in our pay gap.
As the current pay gap is principally driven 
by the ratio of male to female employees 
within certain specific functional areas 
of our business, such as the traditionally 
male-dominated technical and engineering 
workstreams, we are placing significant focus 
on encouraging more diverse participation in 
these areas. Our efforts include participation 
in schools-based activities to encourage more 
girls and young women to consider careers in 
technology and engineering.
Human rights
We respect fundamental human rights 
consistent with the United Nations Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights and we ensure 
that all of our internal policies are consistent 
with this. We do not have any current human 
rights issues.
8 I Sustainability report 2019/20Sustainable relationships with customers and 
suppliers are vital to our success.
Relationships with customers
We have a responsibility to treat customers 
fairly, with the highest ethical standards, and 
to do business in a way that has a positive 
effect on them and society more widely. We 
also believe we have a responsibility to our 
customers to tackle issues that are important 
to them in relation to the products and services 
they buy from us.
To address the barriers to digital inclusion in 
our Hull and East Yorkshire market we have 
continued to run monthly “IT and Biscuits” 
drop -in sessions in our city centre learning zone 
where local residents can develop their online 
skills at their own pace with one-to-one support 
from our employee volunteers. 
We have also supported the efforts of local 
authorities to increase digital inclusion. In 
addition to working with Hull City Council 
to provide training for “digital champions” 
who have gone on to volunteer at community 
centres to help others who wish to do more 
online, our employee volunteers have staffed 
34 digital skills sessions at East Riding of 
Yorkshire Council libraries during the year. 
Online safety remains a key concern for many 
of our customers and we have continued to 
raise awareness of online safety issues. As 
part of our KCOM Key Skills programme we 
regularly talk to primary-aged children about 
staying safe online. To mark Safer Internet 
Day 2020 we brought together 100 children 
and staff from 18 local primary schools for a 
programme of online safety education and 
activities, supported by footballers from Hull 
City Association Football Club. The learning 
materials created for and during the day were 
used to reinforce the online safety message 
long after the event. We recognise the vital role of parents and 
carers in helping their children use the internet 
safely. We make the most of our support of 
leading online safety organisation Internet 
Matters to raise awareness of online risks 
among parents and carers and share expert 
advice and resources to address them.
We are committed to treating all our customers 
with understanding and respect, including 
those who are in a vulnerable situation, whether 
caused by age, injury, physical or mental illness, 
physical or learning disability or by events 
such as bereavement. We aim to provide extra 
help and assistance to vulnerable consumers 
wherever we can. 
Towards the end of the year the COVID-19 
pandemic created challenges for our 
customers across Hull and East Yorkshire, 
disproportionately affecting many of those 
already vulnerable and creating vulnerability 
among others. 
We participated in government forums 
set up to coordinate the response of the 
communications industry to the pandemic and 
put in place measures to support customers 
in need of extra help to stay connected. These 
included removing broadband data caps for 
customers on fixed data packages, establishing 
a dedicated helpline and priority engineer visits 
for vulnerable customers and NHS workers, and 
flexible payment plans for those experiencing 
financial difficulties.  We also offered free 
increased broadband speeds for clinicians to 
enable access to files while working from home.
We also expanded the eligibility for our 
low-cost social access package to include 
care home residents, customers using a 
“Lifeline” phone alarm service, care leavers 
and individuals on the government’s COVID-19 
Shielded Patients List. Customers and suppliers9 I Sustainability report 2019/20Relationships with suppliers
As well as treating our suppliers fairly and 
doing business with them in a sustainable way, 
we have a responsibility to make sure that our 
suppliers operate with high ethical standards.
We expect suppliers to sign up to our Supplier 
and Partner Code of Conduct and we work 
closely with key suppliers to ensure we 
understand their approach to sustainability and 
the way in which their business operates. We also 
carry out regular credit checks on all suppliers.
Our most recent economic impact study 
found our Hull and East Yorkshire operations 
support almost 1,600 full-time equivalent jobs 
in the region with a total value to the local 
economy of £187 million annually. While a 
large proportion of this value is attributable to 
our direct employment of approximately 800 
people in Hull and East Yorkshire, almost all 
of whom live and spend much of their income 
in the region, it is also a result of our ‘buy 
local’ approach. This approach contributes 
significantly to the success of the 82 Hull and 
East Yorkshire businesses on our preferred 
supplier list and has a positive trickle-down 
effect on the wider local economy.  
During the year we increased our focus on 
proactive vendor management, categorising 
our suppliers based on spend level and risk and 
prioritising our efforts accordingly. 
Our business continuity planning activities 
place significant attention on ensuring that in 
the event that key suppliers are affected by 
a business disruption we are able to continue 
supplying services to our customers. This 
approach stood us in good stead when the 
COVID-19 pandemic began and we have 
continued to manage closely the supply of key 
goods and services. 
We are committed to doing all we can to 
assist in the eradication of slavery and human 
trafficking. We have a zero-tolerance approach 
to any slavery or human trafficking activity 
within our business or in our supply chain. Our 
most recent Modern Slavery Act Transparency 
Statement is available on our  
website www.kcom.com.10 I S ustainability report 2019/20Each year we seek to reduce our emissions 
wherever possible through various 
energy - saving schemes. In the year the CO 2e 
tonnes produced from our electricity usage has fallen by 1,888 tonnes or 18.3 per cent. This reflects a 9.6 per cent reduction in the number of kilowatt hours of electricity used as compared to the prior year and a lower carbon factor published by the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy, which are the factors we use each year to calculate the conversion of our electricity usage and other carbon emissions into CO 2
e tonnes.
We continually review and improve the recycling facilities we have in place at our offices, with the aim of making it as easy as possible for our people to recycle any waste we produce. Over 97 per cent of our waste is recycled, with the actual tonnage of waste that has gone to landfill falling from 6.2 tonnes to 5.5 tonnes. The current amount of our waste going to landfill should be representative of levels in future years. Environment
We believe all businesses have a responsibility 
to minimise any negative impact they have on 
the environment and consequently we make 
decisions with environmental sustainability 
in mind. In accordance with the Streamlined 
Energy Carbon Reporting requirements we are 
disclosing our environmental impact both in 
terms of CO 2e tonnage and energy consumed 
in kWh. However, the commentary below refers 
to CO2e tonnage as this is considered the key 
internal metric for measuring performance.  
Their report and our reporting criteria used to 
prepare these numbers can be found on our 
website: https://www.kcom.com/responsibility/
corporate-governance/reporting/.
Our biggest environmental impact comes from 
the electricity we use in our offices, 
data centres and various network sites, both 
nationally and in the Hull and East Yorkshire 
region. During the year 79.5 per cent of our 
CO2e emissions cam e from our elect ricity usage.
Premises – electricity 79.5%
Premises – other fuel and waste 10.5%
Business travel 10.0%Breakdown of our emissions based on CO 2e tonnes