2020 Environmental, Social  
and Governance Report2020 Environmental, Social  
and Governance Report
Table of Contents  
Letter from the President and CEO 2
About Killam and Killam’s Strategy 3
Sustainability Policy  4
2020 Goals and Performance 4
2020 Highlights and Achievements 5
Killam’s ESG Targets  6
United Nation’s Sustainable  
 Development Goals (SDGs) 7
ESG Methodology  8
Commitment to the Environment 9
 Energy Management  9
 Greenhouse Gas Emissions  11
 Climate Change 13
 Water Management  14
 Recycling and Waste Management 14Commitment to Social  15
 Culture  15
 COVID-19  16
 Employees  17
 Residents  20
 Communities  21
 Supply Chain Responsibility 22
Commitment to Governance  23
 Board Structure  23
 Independence  23
 Ethics 23
 Diversity and Inclusion  24
 Risk Management & Cyber Security 25
 Stakeholder Engagement  26
Killam's ESG Performance Data 27
ESG Disclosure Indexes  33
About this Report
Killam’s ESG report focuses on the 2020 reporting period. The report’s ESG disclosures were 
prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards (core), the Sustainability 
Accounting Standards Board (SASB) standards, and the Task Force for Climate-related Financial 
Disclosure (TCFD) framework. The inclusion of SASB and TCFD disclosure is new to the 2020 report 
and has enhanced the disclosure for energy, waste and climate-related risk management.
Killam’s greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and associated energy data has been externally verified(1) 
by Quinn & Partners Inc. using International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14064-3:2019, 
the standard for GHG verification.
(1) Quinn & Partners verified the GHG emissions and energy data to a limited level of assurance using ISO 14064-
3:20191, the ISO standard for GHG verification. Verification activities applied in a limited level of assurance verification 
are less extensive in nature, timing and extent than an audit. The review found no material discrepancy, error or 
omission that would conclude that Killam’s 2020 GHG emissions inventory and associated energy data are not fairly 
stated and prepared in all material respects in accordance with the standards and principles of the GHG Protocol.2 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 2019  
We are pleased to present our 2020 report 
which details how we incorporate environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) principles into our 
operations and business strategy. 
The COVID-19 pandemic had a significant 
global impact in 2020 and continues to affect our 
stakeholders in many ways. Killam’s top priority 
throughout the pandemic continues to be the 
health and safety of its residents and employees. 
We implemented a Pandemic Illness Plan and a 
wide range of policies and procedures to reduce or 
mitigate the spread of the virus and maintain the 
continued health of all stakeholders. 
We recognize the financial hardships that many 
Canadians are facing and have offered resources 
and financial flexibility, such as offering zero rent 
increases on lease renewals, waiving late fees and 
creating payment plans if needed. Our committed 
employees across the country adapted quickly to 
the changing circumstances, and I am very grateful 
for their dedication and steadfast work during 
this time. We support them by offering additional 
flexibility in work schedules and increased 
compensation for our front-line employees.
Despite the pandemic, we successfully achieved 
a wide variety of ESG objectives in 2020. With a 
strong focus on reducing our carbon footprint, we 
began installing photovoltaic (PV) solar panels at 
a number of properties, and continued to retrofit 
our buildings with energy management systems 
and LED lighting. We reported our greenhouse gas 
emissions and commit to renewable energy and 
emissions-reduction targets.We advanced our culture of diversity and 
inclusion by partnering with the Canadian Centre 
for Diversity and Inclusion (CCDI) and required 
mandatory diversity training for all management 
employees, as well as a host of additional training 
for our entire team. 
We recognize the housing affordability issues 
in Canada, and we are a part of the solution, 
providing more than 750 subsidized affordable 
housing units across our portfolio. In addition, we 
donate furnished suites to hospitals in our markets 
and contribute financially to an array of community 
organizations. 
Our Board’s Governance and ESG Committee 
oversees our ESG progress and reviews our 
performance towards Killam’s ESG goals. 
Participating in our second annual GRESB 
assessment, we achieved a 15 point or 32% 
improvement over our initial submission in 2019. 
This earned us a green star designation, and we 
target further improvements in the coming years. 
We believe in being a strong corporate citizen and 
recognize it as a vital component to Killam’s long-
term success.
Sincerely,
Philip Fraser, President and CEOLetter from the President and CEO
2 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 2020  (1) Funds from operations (FFO) is a non-IFRS financial measure. Please refer to page 3 of Killam’s 2020 Management’s 
Discussion and Analysis for the definition of this measure.About Killam and Killam’s Strategy
[GRI 102-1, 102-2, 102-3, 102-4, 102-6, 102-7, 102-56]
Killam Apartment REIT (“Killam” , or the “Trust’’), based in Halifax, Nova Scotia (NS), is one of 
Canada’s largest residential landlords, owning, operating, managing and developing a $3.8 billion 
portfolio of apartments, manufactured home communities (MHCs) and commercial properties across 
seven provinces. Killam was founded in 2000 to create value through the consolidation of apartments 
in Atlantic Canada and MHCs across Canada. Killam entered the Ontario (ON) apartment market in 
2010, the Alberta (AB) apartment market in 2014, and the British Columbia (BC) apartment market in 
2020. Killam broke ground on its first development in 2010 and has completed twelve projects to-
date, with a further six projects currently under construction.
Net Operating Income Contribution by Market (%)
Killam’s strategy to increase funds from operations(1) (FFO), net asset value (NAV) and 
maximize unitholder value is focused on three priorities:
• Increase earnings from existing portfolio.
• Expand the portfolio and diversify geographically through accretive acquisitions,  
 targeting newer properties.
• Develop high-quality properties in Killam’s core markets.
NL | 4% 
St. John’sBC | 2% 
Victoria AB | 7%
Calgary | Edmonton
ON | 23% 
Ottawa | London  
Toronto | KWC
NB | 19% 
Moncton
Fredericton
Saint JohnNS | 39% 
HalifaxPE | 6% 
Charlottetown
3 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 2020Sustainability Policy
Killam is a leader(1) in ESG practices within the Canadian multi-residential real estate sector, 
and its sustainability policy formalizes this commitment and is included in the Killam employee 
handbook. The policy is approved by the Board of Trustees and monitored by the Governance 
and ESG Committee. The following outlines Killam’s commitment to ESG:
• Invest in technology and new initiatives to increase sustainability and lower its carbon 
footprint across the portfolio, with a focus on waste management as well as energy and 
water consumption.
• Support and invest in its employees through training and development.
• Enhance diversity and inclusion policies and practices to continue to foster a safe, inclusive, 
and equitable workplace. 
• Provide outstanding customer service and build an inclusive community at its properties.
• Support initiatives in the communities in which Killam operates, with an emphasis on 
affordable housing through community partnerships, subsidized rents and discounts.
• Establish and implement measurable governance policies and practices.
• Report annually on its ESG programs, highlighting new initiatives, and Killam’s performance 
against targets.
• Review its annual ESG benchmark ratings(2) and target areas for improvement each year.
(1) Killam is the first publicly traded Canadian multi-family REIT to submit to GRESB as well as the first to issue a stand 
alone ESG report in accordance with ESG reporting standards. 
(2) Currently the benchmark rating focus is GRESB.
2020 Goals and Performance
  
 ENERGY CONSUMPTION
GOAL
Invest up to $7M in  
energy-efficiency initiatives 
including 1,000 kW of new 
PV solar panel installations.
PERFORMANCE
$5.2M invested in energy-
efficiency projects including 
880 MWh of PV solar panels 
at 11 properties in PEI and 
NS.SOCIAL INITIATIVES
GOAL
Increase employee  
volunteer days by 25%.
PERFORMANCE 
Due to COVID-19  
pandemic, volunteer 
opportunities were  
minimal. Defer goal to  
post pandemic.RATING PARTICIPATION
GOAL
Increase GRESB rating  
by 15 percentage points.
PERFORMANCE 
Increased GRESB rating by 
15 percentage points or  
32% improvement over its 
initial submission in 2019 
as well as received a green 
star designation.
4 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 2020ESG 2020 Highlights and Achievements 
E
S
G
Killam installed photovoltaic solar panels at  
11 properties, generating 880 MWh  
of renewable energy(1) annually.
Implemented a green cleaning policy  
for procurement and use throughout  
its properties.
Donated over 
$375,000  in cash, in-kind 
gifts and Trustee donations to 
support organizations across 
Canada.Completed an independent review of 
its 2020 greenhouse gas  
inventory.
Supported affordable housing with 
more than 750 subsidized 
units through community 
partnerships.
Formed a 
Diversity  
and Inclusion 
Committee 
to assess and make 
improvements to 
Killam’s current 
practices and policies. 
Completed its second GRESB submission, 
achieving a green star rating  and 
a 32% increase  from its initial score.Installed two 
beehives  at one 
of Killam’s properties 
as a pilot project.(2) 
Partnered  with the 
Canadian Centre 
for Diversity and 
Inclusion .Achieved an 84% employee 
satisfaction  score.
Enhanced 
emergency 
response 
preparedness plans 
at all properties. 
Developed longer-term 
sustainability  targets. Reported in accordance with  
GRI reporting standards .
Began monitoring 
suppliers’ 
compliance  with  
Killam’s internal ESG  
minimum standards.Aligned Killam’s strategy and 
targets with the  
UN’s Sustainable  
Development  Goals.Achieved an 87% resident 
satisfaction  score.
(1) Equivalent to GHG emissions from 72 homes’ energy use for one year.
(2) Killam’s urban beehive pilot included an educational workshop and honey for the residents at its Toronto property, 
along with increased awareness about sustainable practices in the community.
5 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 20206 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 2019  
Killam’s ESG Targets
[TCFD 9, TCFD 11] 
Killam has committed to ambitious but realistic ESG targets to work towards in the medium-term. 
These goals aim to mitigate Killam’s carbon footprint, maintain good corporate citizenship and 
create long-term value for its stakeholders. Management reviews these periodically to confirm 
alignment with its materiality assessment (see page 8). Killam is scoping out its long-term carbon 
emission targets and developing a plan to move to net-zero carbon emissions and will disclose 
details as technology and innovation evolve.
ENVIRONMENTAL
•  Reduce GHG emissions 
by 15%(1)  by 2030.
•  Produce a minimum 
of 10% of electricity(2) 
through renewable 
energy sources by 2025.
•  Pursue building 
certifications across a 
minimum of 20% of 
Killam’s portfolio by 
2025.SOCIAL
•  Increase employee 
volunteer hours by 25% 
by 2025.
• Increase number of 
affordable housing units 
by 20% by 2025.
• Maintain resident 
satisfaction score above 
85% annually.GOVERNANCE
•  Continue to participate 
in GRESB survey 
annually, targeting a 
minimum increase of 
5% each year to reach 
GRESB 4 Star ranking 
by 2025 and continue to 
expand ESG disclosure.
• Increase the diversity of 
employees, including 
a 25% increased 
representation of 
employees who identify 
as racialized, as persons 
with a disability, and as 
LGBTQ2+ by 2025.
(1) Scope 1 and 2 emissions from 2020 levels.
(2) Operational controlled electricity.
6 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 2020  United Nation’s Sustainable  
Development Goals (SDGs)
In September 2015, Canada and all other 192 United Nations Member States adopted the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development at the UN General Assembly. This initiative is a global call 
to action to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity 
by 2030. This 2030 Agenda is broken down into 17 global goals that countries, organizations, 
businesses and individuals alike are working towards. Killam has assessed these goals and Killam 
has aligned its corporate sustainability targets with the United Nation’s SDGs. Killam believes it 
can make the most impact on the following four goals and associated action items:
United Nation’s  
Sustainable Development Goals Killam’s Goals
Ensure reliable, sustainable  
and modern energy for all.Produce a minimum of 10% of electricity  (1) through 
renewable energy sources by 2025. (2020 – negligible)
Invest in geothermal heating and cooling systems in 
new developments.
Promote inclusive and 
sustainable economic  
growth, employment  
and decent work for all.Increase the diversity of employees, including 25% 
increased representation of employees who identify as 
racialized, as persons with a disability, and as LGBTQ2+ 
by 2025.
Make cities inclusive, safe, 
resilient and sustainable. Pursue building certifications across a minimum of 20% 
of Killam’s portfolio by 2025.
Annually invest a minimum of $5 million in energy-
efficient upgrades.
Ensure sustainable  
consumption and  
production patterns. Annually monitor, analyze and verify water and energy 
consumption, along with targeted reductions in 
greenhouse gas emissions.
(1) Operational controlled electricity.
7 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 2020ESG Methodology
[GRI 102-16, 102-19, 102-20, TCFD 4, TCFD 9, TCFD 11] 
Incorporating ESG initiatives into Killam’s overall business strategy helps 
drive innovation, augment its operating results, and maximize long-term 
value for all its stakeholders.
To ensure Killam is focused on the most significant ESG issues for its 
business, its materiality assessment identifies and prioritizes the ESG 
topics that are most significant to the organization, its employees and 
the external stakeholders, which include Killam’s lenders, residents, 
investors, analysts, trustees, peers and communities. 
The approach evaluates all material ESG topics and identifies 
opportunities for improvement in each area. This evaluation includes 
goal setting, resource allocation, performance management, and reporting to achieve 
improvements. The methodology is also underlined by two of Killam’s Core Values of Build 
Community and Do the Right Thing. 
Killam’s internal ESG Oversight Committee, consisting of the President and CEO, and a select 
interdisciplinary group of senior management from across Killam, provides guidance and ensures 
the integration of ESG into its strategic objectives. This committee champions the ESG action 
items throughout the year and regularly reports progress against ESG targets to the Board’s 
Governance and ESG Committee.
Materiality Assessment
[GRI 102-46, 102-47]
The following matrix shows the top right-hand quadrant of Killam’s Materiality Assessment, which 
are the ESG factors that are most important to Killam. This report focuses on the topics that are of 
highest importance and most relevant to internal and external stakeholders. 
IMPORTANCE TO KILLAMIMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS
Supply Chain ResponsibilityResident Satisfaction
Health, Wellbeing  
& Safety
Employee Engagement,  
Training & DevelopmentSustainable CommunitiesBoard Composition  
& Governance
Regulatory Compliance
Data & Cyber Security
EthicsInsurance & Risk 
Management
Risk of Climate 
ChangeSustainable Development  
Design & Product Quality
Waste ManagementEnergy & Water ManagementDiversity & Inclusion Governance      Environmental      Social  
Greenhouse Gas  
EmissionsKillam works proactively
and diligently to monitor  
and reduce our 
environmental footprint, to  
ensure effective and ethical 
governance and to invest in  
ways that stimulate 
sustainable economic 
growth.
8 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 2020Commitment to the Environment
[GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 for GRI 302] 
At Killam, resources are used in a responsible manner to preserve and protect the environment 
and reduce the impact on climate change. Killam has a long history of investing in energy 
efficiencies. Starting in 2016, Killam commenced a five-year, $25 million energy-efficiency program 
focused on reducing its GHG, gaining operating efficiencies and lowering operating costs. In 
the past five years, Killam’s green projects included the installation of PV solar panels, air-sealing 
apartment units, conversions from heating oil to natural gas, installation of low-flow toilets and 
LED lighting retrofits across the entire apartment portfolio. Killam is committed to continuing its 
minimum $5 million annual investment in energy efficiencies going forward.
Energy Management
[SASB IF-RE-130a.5, SASB IF-RE-410a.3]
Killam’s energy management strategy has evolved over the past five years. Killam has 
extended its energy investments to include a wider range of projects, testing different 
ways to reduce consumption and lower emissions. This includes converting fossil 
fuel based buildings to electric heat pumps, sub-metering electricity, water and heat, 
reinsulating exterior walls and attics to reduce heat loss, installing boiler economizers 
to recover wasted exhaust heat, and switching heating fuel from oil to natural gas and 
propane. As Killam continues to enhance its energy management, it plans to implement real-time 
peak demand monitoring at select properties and monthly consumption tracking for all properties in 
2021 to monitor energy consumption and detect spikes in usage.
More than $300 million in new developments have been designed 
and built over the last 10 years using strategies aimed at improving 
performance across important metrics, including energy savings, 
water efficiency, the stewardship of resources and sensitivity to their 
environmental impact. Killam focuses its development activity in urban 
cores and in highly walkable suburban sub-markets. Technology and 
renewable resources are used whenever feasible with the intent to create 
green and sustainable homes for its residents. From LED lighting and 
motion-sensing technology, to geothermal heating and in-suite green 
switches, energy conservation and a low-carbon footprint are important components of Killam’s 
development designs.
Killam aims to acquire newer, more energy-efficient buildings where possible. During the acquisition 
due diligence process, Management analyzes and considers the potential acquisition’s  features 
and ability to contribute to sustainability and the long-term value of its unitholders. Along with 
energy efficient buildings, there is demand for upgraded units across the portfolio. Killam’s extensive 
suite renovation program allows it to improve energy efficiency and sustainability throughout the 
apartment portfolio, while delivering upgraded amenities to its residents. Energy savings, 
water efficiency and 
the stewardship of 
resources were top 
of mind in the more 
than $300 million in 
developments Killam 
has built to date.
9 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 2020LED Lighting
Throughout 2017-2019 Killam retrofitted its portfolio with LED lighting, which results in more than 
5,000 MWh of electricity being saved annually. Killam benefits from improved lighting levels and 
reduced maintenance costs.
Solar Power
Killam has solar domestic hot water heating systems at five properties. These systems together save 
approximately 1,800 gigajoules (GJ)(1) of natural gas annually.  
During 2020, Killam installed PV solar panels at 11 of its properties in Halifax and Charlottetown, which 
are expected to generate 880 MWh of renewable energy annually. Killam expects to invest $2.0 million 
in PV solar projects in 2021, which are estimated to produce 1,200 MWh of electricity annually. As the 
cost of solar continues to decline, Killam expects to increase PV solar throughout its portfolio. Killam will 
also explore purchasing offsetting renewable electricity if a property is not suitable for onsite solar or 
has limited roof areas to meet energy needs.
(1) Equivalent to GHG emissions from 41 homes’ energy use for the year.
Shorefront, Killam’s recently completed  
78-unit Charlottetown development features 
PV solar panels, sub-metered water, energy 
efficient appliances and EV charging stations. 
PV solar power is expected to cover 30% of 
Killam’s operating energy cost.
Killam Community | Shorefront, Charlottetown
Commitment to the Environment
10 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 202011 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 2019  Renewable Resources
Killam is committed to increasing its investment in geothermal heating and cooling and 
incorporates these into its new developments where feasible. Frontier, phase one of an 840-unit 
development, opened June 2019 in Ottawa, and incorporates geothermal heating and cooling. 
Killam has three developments currently under construction, totaling 505 units, in Ottawa, 
Mississauga and Kitchener, which have geothermal heating and cooling systems being installed. 
Electric Vehicle Chargers and Sustainable Transportation 
Killam has 10 properties with on-site electric vehicle (EV) charging 
stations. Killam plans to install more than 400 EV charging stations 
throughout its portfolio in the next two years and will install 
EV charging stations in 50% of its existing properties over the 
next five years. All new developments being built by Killam will 
incorporate EV chargers. In addition to supporting electrification of 
transportation, Killam is developing in urbanized environments that 
support direct access to public transportation. An example of this 
is the new Frontier and Latitude developments in Ottawa, which 
are adjacent to the city’s newly expanded light-rail transit network.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
[GRI 103-1, 103-2 and 103-2 for GRI 302 and 305, TCFD 5] 
Operating a multi-residential portfolio of more than 17,000 apartment units across Canada 
requires a significant amount of energy, and consequently generates GHG emissions. These 
emissions contribute to the global climate crisis faced today, as well as the shifts in the world’s 
climate and extreme weather conditions. The burning of fossil fuels like coal, oil, and natural gas 
for electricity, heat, and transportation is the primary source of human-generated emissions.
Killam has established GHG emissions reduction targets as part of its long-term sustainability 
strategy and strives to seek operational efficiencies to reduce resource consumption and 
dependence on fossil fuels, therefore reducing its carbon footprint. Killam is helping to combat 
global warming by changing the way it develops and operates its portfolio. 
Killam compiles its GHG Inventory annually in accordance with The Greenhouse Gas Protocol. 
Killam engaged Quinn & Partners to complete an independent verification review of its 2020 GHG 
inventory, in accordance with ISO 14064 – Part 3, for its greenhouse gas data.Frontier, the 228-unit 
residential building in 
Ottawa, has a geothermal 
heating and cooling 
system designed to save 
an estimated 300,000 kWh 
of electricity and 46,000 
cubic meters of natural 
gas, which is more than 
100 tons of CO2 emissions 
annually.Commitment to the Environment
11 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 2020  Commitment to the Environment
   GHG Intensity (kgC O2e/sf )
2020                29,194
2019                   30,542
2018           27,407GHG Emissions (tC O2e)
           Scope 1 
           Scope 2 
2020                 18,168
2019                   18,651
2018               20,6372020              3.83
2019              4.06
2018                     4.15
For the past four years, calculating the energy the portfolio consumes has been 
important to Killam. This data helps support the efficiency initiatives to better 
manage the properties, making them more resource efficient. It aligns with the 
United Nation’s SDG 7: Affordable and Clean Energy.Killam’s GHG emission sources include: electricity, natural gas, propane, 
oil, petrol and steam.
Note: Killam has committed to measure scope 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions, in compliance with ISO 14064-1. Scope 1 includes all direct 
emissions generated and managed by Killam, including building fuel 
consumption and fleet-vehicles. Scope 2 includes indirect emissions, 
purchased steam and electricity paid for by Killam. Killam has 
excluded scope 3 emissions, which take into account all other indirect 
emissions, including tenant-controlled electricity. Killam’s scope 1 
and 2 GHG emissions exclude refrigerant leakage, upstream and 
downstream activities associated with its business operations, new 
developments and off-site waste management. 
Define CO2 footprint
Increase efficiency of buildings
Increase clean energy supply
Invest in on-site energy generation
Consider off-site energy generation
Review CO2 offset programsKillam’s Path to Decarbonization 
DECREASE
CO 2
12 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 202013 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 2019  Climate Change 
[GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 for GRI 302, GRI 201-2, SASB IF-RE-450a.2, TCFD 1, TCFD 2, TCFD 3, TCFD 4, TCFD 5, TCFD 6, TCFD 7,  
TCFD 8, TCFD 9, TCFD 11]
Killam recognizes it faces a variety of different operational risks, including climate change 
impact on its physical assets. To improve the resiliency of its portfolio, Killam is updating and 
implementing sustainable policies, investing in technology, and switching to greener forms of 
energy. 
Historically, Killam has had minimal review of its climate-related risk. Its climate risk work was 
limited to analysis completed through its annual insurance renewal, assessing each individual 
asset based on location. Killam also considered climate change risk at the time of acquisition. In 
2020, Killam began to further integrate climate-related risks and opportunities into its overall risk 
management strategy. 
The Trust’s ESG oversight committee, including the President and CEO, members of senior 
management and other key staff members across the organization’s departments, meets bi-
monthly to discuss environmental, social and governance related topics, including climate-related 
risks and opportunities. The topics discussed in 2020 related to climate change include: asset 
resiliency, Killam’s environmental impact, emergency preparedness, GHG emission monitoring and 
reduction, sustainability policies, sea-level rise, flood risk, heat stress and extreme weather events. 
The oversight committee provides regular updates to the Board of Trustees’ Governance and ESG 
Committee. The Board of Trustees has oversight responsibility for all risk management policies 
and practices. 
Throughout 2020 and in early 2021, Killam assessed and implemented several risk management 
practices as part of its short-term climate-related risk management plan. Killam’s property 
management and operations teams assessed and updated emergency preparedness plans 
for each property to ensure they are prepared for extreme weather events including flooding, 
extreme temperatures and fire. Killam’s operations team is implementing emergency flood kits 
across the portfolio and has begun training property management staff on how to use the kit in 
response to a water event. 
In the long-term, Killam plans to work towards operating its portfolio with net-zero carbon emissions 
to combat its impact on climate change. Killam is in the process of developing a more robust long-
term investment strategy for risk management planning with respect to flood risk, extreme weather 
and sea level rise, as well as other areas of environmental impact Killam can reduce or eliminate. 
Commitment to the Environment
13 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 2020  14 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 2019  
Water Management
[GRI 103-1, 103-2 and 103-2 for GRI 303, GRI 303-1, SASB IF-RE-140a.4, SASB IF-RE-410a.3]
Killam’s properties use two million cubic metres of water each year and reducing 
water consumption across its portfolio is a priority. Aligning with the United Nation’s 
SDG 12: Responsible Consumption and Production, the Trust implemented 
solutions in both common areas and apartment units to help conservation efforts.
Water conservation initiatives focus on reducing both interior and exterior water consumption, by 
installing more efficient appliances and water fixtures and implementing environmentally friendly 
landscaping practices. Killam has completed the installation of low-flow toilets in more than 
11,500 units in its portfolio. Since the program started in 2015, over 700 million litres of water have 
been saved by Killam and its tenants. As well, newer developments such as Saginaw Park, Frontier 
and Shorefront, which opened in 2018-2020, are submetering water usage. Killam is in the process 
of evaluating existing properties for submetering to mitigate Killam’s exposure to water costs and 
promote conservative water usage by residents.
Recycling and Waste Management
Killam seeks to continuously improve and maintain its buildings, with a focus on reducing waste, 
energy and water. To achieve this, Killam has been finding practical solutions for different properties 
that make the highest impact in reducing its environmental footprint. Recycling, composting and 
waste management programs are available at the majority of its properties with a concentrated 
effort by employees and residents to reduce waste that ends up in landfills. Commitment to the Environment
14 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 2020  15 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 2019  
(1) 2020 employee survey resultsCommitment to Social
Culture
[GRI 102-16] 
The foundation of Killam’s culture is its five Core Values, which are 
an active part of the everyday work and are embodied at all levels 
of the organization.  
Killam’s Core Values serve as important criteria in the recruitment and selection process, where 
there are specific questions and discussions used to assess individual alignment to Killam’s values 
and culture. This alignment is incorporated in Killam’s annual performance management process. 
Cultural alignment continues with every employee event, typically held several times a year,  
where content references the values. Employees are also recognized for demonstrating 
exceptional cultural alignment through a formal recognition 
program.
Killam’s annual employee survey is another tool to review 
employee feedback and monitor engagement. Here are some 
employee comments about Killam’s culture(1):91%  of employees 
believe Killam leaders 
care about their 
employees’ wellbeing.83%  of employees 
believe senior leaders 
live the core values of the 
organization.
“I am respected and not just a number.” 
“Killam tries to respect all.  They have a strong  
business model with a strong social consciousness.”
“Killam is forward thinking and ahead of trends. They respect their 
employees and look after customers better than the competitors."
“It is the best company that I have ever worked for. We are  
treated fairly and respected. I enjoy going to work every day.”
15 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 2020  Killam’s exceptional culture has also been recognized publicly. Killam was named one of Canada’s 
Most Admired Corporate Cultures for 2020, earning this distinction for a second three-year period, 
as well as being honoured with the Company Culture Award of Excellence by the Federation of 
Residential Housing Providers of Ontario. Other recent employer distinctions include:
2018
COVID-19
Killam is firmly committed to the health and safety of its 
employees, residents, and communities as it continues to 
navigate COVID-19. Provincial and regional Public Health 
guidelines continue to be followed to ensure the safe operation 
of its properties. Killam created a dedicated webpage for 
residents and community members to reference for COVID-19 
updates, procedures and protocols.
Support for Employees Support for Residents & Communities
• COVID-19 section added to employee 
portal to ensure employees are up to date 
with safety protocols and measures.
• Increased compensation allocated to public-
facing employees.
• Remote work encouraged wherever 
reasonable.
• Safety guidance provided including: 
adjusted operations to limit risk, required 
personal protective equipment (PPE), and 
specific safety protocols for those unable to 
work remotely.
• Enhanced leave policy to ensure employees 
who are ill, required to self-isolate, or have 
other COVID-19-related challenges have 
access to paid leave.• Mask requirement in common areas of all 
properties.
• Increased frequency of cleaning of all 
high-touch areas at its properties.
• Closed amenity spaces at its properties in 
accordance with public health guidelines.
• Rent deferral programs provided for 
residential and commercial tenants.
• Temporary deferral of rental increases.
• Virtual investor meetings and property 
tours conducted to ensure adherence to 
Public Health guidelines.92%  of employees feel 
safety is a top priority at 
Killam.Commitment to Social
16 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 2020Employees
[GRI 102-8, GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 for GRI 401, 404 and 405] 
Killam’s employees are integral to its success and as such are 
supported to do their best work, through a variety of programs. 
Diversity and Inclusion 
In 2020, Killam partnered with the Canadian Centre for Diversity & Inclusion (CCDI) to assist in its 
pursuit of a robust diversity and inclusion (D&I) program. This partnership provides employees 
access to expert advice, including a monthly newsletter, a knowledge repository, and free monthly 
webinars. Mandatory D&I training was completed by 100% of Management in 
2020.
Killam’s recruitment process includes electronic postings on a variety of 
platforms, word-of-mouth referrals, attending community job fairs, and seeking 
creative solutions to recruit in rural or under represented communities. Killam’s 
Management engage with community and not-for-profit organizations to both increase the 
candidate pool and to help seek a diverse and representative group.
Diversity and inclusion remains important throughout employment. Killam’s position on D&I 
is formalized through its D&I policy, and on-going training ensures continuous learning and 
awareness. An open culture that encourages the sharing of information allows Killam to take full 
advantage of the collective knowledge of its team.
Killam’s first bi-annual Employee D&I Survey was completed in 2019. The goal was to create a 
baseline for representation of diverse groups, as well as, employee’s perceptions about inclusion 
and current practices. The annual employee engagement survey is another way Killam measures 
its D&I efforts and in 2020 Killam saw an increase in the number of ethnic groups identified in 
the survey results. With future surveys, Killam will continue to measure its success in ensuring its 
workforce represents the communities in which it operates.
Employee Demographics
   GENDER – SELF-IDENTIFICATION
FEMALE |   MALE | NON-BINARY1%48% 51%
GENERATIONAL MAKEUP
SILENT GEN.  | B. BOOMERS | GEN X 
GEN Y/MILLENNIALS  | GEN Z2% 5%35%
36% 22 %
EMPLOYEE TENURE
<1 YEAR  | 1<5 YEARS | 5<10 YEARS 
10<15 YEARS | 15+ YEARS18%43%
23%
9%
6%
As per our 2019 D&I survey:
9%  self-identify as  racialized | 6%  self-identify  as being a person  
with a disability  | 6%  self-identify as LGBTQ2+90%  of employees feel 
their supervisor treats 
them fairly.Commitment to Social
17 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 2020Training and Development
[GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 for GRI 404, GRI 404-2] 
Killam’s commitment to ongoing education, training, and 
development increases employee skills, the quality of work 
produced, and their personal connection to Killam. Employees 
are provided with safety, job 
specific and other required training upon being hired.
 Ongoing opportunities are provided in the areas of diversity, 
leadership, and enhanced safety and wellness training. 
Industry-specific training, such as the Certified Property 
Manager program and a tuition reimbursement program 
are also available. Training is provided through a mix of 
external and internal resources. Employee summits, internal 
conferences and training sessions allow for sharing and 
storytelling. Many employees work alone or in very small 
groups daily, so these gatherings provide an important 
opportunity they may not otherwise have due to the nature of their work. 2020 has highlighted 
the need to be flexible with training and development. Killam has leveraged technology to bring 
people “together” despite not being able to meet in person. 
Killam’s success in providing career advancement opportunities is measured through internal 
promotion rates, recorded and reported internally on a monthly basis. In 2020, Killam saw more 
than 20 permanent employees progress into more senior positions.
2000+   
mandatory  
training  
courses  
completed  
in 20202700+  
hours of 
mandatory 
training 
completed in 
202025%   
of open  
positions  
were filled  
with internal  
candidates90%+ 
completion of 
assigned  
training  
in 2020
Rewards and Recognition
Killam understands the strong connection between rewards, recognition, and retaining top talent 
and is focused on this in several ways. The Scorecard program is Killam’s annual incentive plan for all 
employees. Scorecard measures at all levels of the organization support Killam’s strategic goals.
“Core Value Champions” are nominated for exemplifying Killam’s Core Values. Most recently, 
these stories have focused on kindness and caring during the pandemic. These stories are 
celebrated with all staff through Killam’s employee newsletter. All nominees receive a signed card 
from Killam’s President and CEO, and winners receive a framed certificate and gift card. 
Ongoing education and training, as mentioned in the previous section, is yet another way Killam 
rewards and recognizes its employees.Through training and 
development, we 
continually reinforce our 
culture and Core Values.
Commitment to Social
18 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 2020Informally, employees receive gift cards, personal correspondence, along with acknowledgment 
from their supervisors, rewarding them for a job well done. Typically, annual employee events such 
as summer BBQs and holiday celebrations have shown appreciation for Killam’s teams. However, 
the global pandemic has highlighted the importance of flexibility, and Killam has adjusted 
its recognition plan to include rewarding front-line employees with increased pay during the 
pandemic. 
Compensation and Performance Management
Killam is committed to delivering employee benefits and competitive compensation including 
strategic incentive plans. Killam employees are measured quarterly on targets that are tied 
directly to corporate goals, ensuring compensation and results are clearly linked. This practice 
increases the commitment of Killam’s employees to its success in meeting its strategic targets.
Quarterly scorecard reports for Property Managers and on-site employees are part of the regular 
performance management feedback program. The program includes probationary, quarterly 
and annual reviews, all offered through a user-friendly interactive employee portal and in-
person meetings. Performance management includes career development and long-term goal 
discussions.
Employee Benefits
The performance and compensation plans are reviewed annually to ensure they align with market 
influences and internal requirements. Components of Killam’s compensation and benefits package 
include:
FLEXIBLE 
BENEFITS  
PLANSEMPLOYEE 
& FAMILY 
ASSISTANCE 
PROGRAMPAID 
VOLUNTEER 
TIMEPAID TIME OFF 
(VACATION & 
PERSONAL)PAID SICK 
LEAVE 
ANNUAL 
INCENTIVE 
PLANEMPLOYEE 
UNIT  
PURCHASE  
PLANPAID 
PROFESSIONAL  
ASSOCIATION   
FEESREFERRAL 
BONUSESSHORT-TERM 
AND LONG-
TERM  
DISABILITY 
COVERAGE 
SCHOLARSHIPSTUITION 
REIMBURSE-  
MENTDISCOUNT 
ON KILLAM 
APARTMENT 
RENTSKILLAM PERKS 
(DISCOUNTS AT 
PARTNERS) PARENTAL 
LEAVE PAY Commitment to Social
19 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 2020Employee Engagement
Killam’s annual engagement survey is completed by an independent third-party and has provided 
insight into employee satisfaction and engagement levels for more than 10 years. 
In 2020, the timing of the annual employee survey remained unchanged and was released mid-
June. At this time, Killam’s team had been through the first wave of the pandemic, taking place 
in March through May of 2020. Despite the additional challenges brought about by COVID-19, 
Killam is pleased to share its overall satisfaction score of 84%, which is in line with Killam’s 5-year 
average of 83%. 
94% OF 
EMPLOYEES LIKE 
THE WORK  
THEY DO(1)95% OF 
EMPLOYEES ARE 
WILLING TO GIVE 
EXTRA EFFORT 
TO HELP KILLAM 
SUCCEED(1)94% OF 
EMPLOYEES ARE 
PROUD TO WORK 
FOR KILLAM(1)90% OVERALL 
ENGAGEMENT (1)
Residents
[GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 for GRI 416] 
Killam aims to provide outstanding customer service and fosters a sense of community at its 
properties. Residents are surveyed annually to measure Killam’s success in meeting expectations 
and to identify areas for improvement. In 2020, Killam received a satisfaction rating of 87%. 
Killam’s satisfaction rating has been greater than 86% for the 8 years Killam has participated in 
this survey. The third-party that manages the survey advises Killam that ratings above 80% are 
considered very strong for the industry. 
Providing exceptional customer service to prospective tenants and residents is key to ensuring Killam 
is their sustainable choice of residence, today and tomorrow. In 2020, Killam continued to advance 
online leasing in response to COVID-19 and provided a mix of virtual and in-person showings. The 
resident portal and associated mobile app, corporate website, and online pre-authorized payments 
(PAP) proved valuable in ensuring social distancing and remote work were possible.
Creating a sense of community is a priority at Killam. Its team provided Creative Solutions to 
ensure properties maintained a sense of community while adhering to Public Health guidelines. 
In-person events were replaced with contact-free engagements such as door hangers, drive-by 
events, coloring contests, and gift basket draws. 
Resident wellness and safety are at the forefront of Killam’s operations. This is demonstrated 
through first-aid training, fire and life safety training for on-site staff. Comprehensive fire plans and 
monthly safety inspections further support this commitment.Commitment to Social
(1) 2020 Employee Survey Results
20 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 20202020 Resident Survey Results
87%  satisfied with Killam as Landlord
89%  satisfied with current apartment overall
83%  satisfied with Resident Manager
87%  would recommend to friends and family
Communities
As a leading organization with an exceptional culture, Killam has a responsibility to maximize the 
social impact alongside earnings by supporting the community. 
As part of Killam’s effort to Build Community, its experienced community investment committee 
oversees a budget of approximately $300,000 of community giving each year. The committee is 
focused on making the workplace a caring environment, and it encourages, celebrates and shares 
the individual community giving projects of Killam’s employees, in addition to corporate giving. 
Killam’s giving strategy is centred on charities and causes which support family and shelter. It 
also has allocations for employee-led giving, Killam family scholarships, and tenant relief. Killam 
understands affordability concerns and is part of the solution by providing more than 750 subsidized 
affordable housing units. For many years, Killam has donated furnished suites to hospitals across its 
markets, with 11 units currently available to families in need. Contributions are made to a variety of 
community organizations, influenced by their alignment with our community investment strategy. 
Killam strongly believes in supporting charitable causes that its employees value.
Killam employees are active community members and are provided with paid volunteer time each 
year. Employees give back to their communities by volunteering with numerous organizations such 
as the Canadian Ski Patrol, the YMCA & YWCA, minor hockey associations, the Canadian Lung 
Association, and the Salvation Army, to name a few.
$172k   
in suite donations$103k   
in cash donations$340k   
in tenant relief$90k   
in trustee donationsCommitment to Social
21 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 202022 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 2019  Supply Chain Responsibility
[GRI 102-9] 
Supply chain management is important. Killam’s major suppliers and service providers include 
skilled tradespersons for maintenance and major renovations in its buildings, and suppliers for 
building materials, cleaning and office supplies. Killam fosters relationships with suppliers and 
service providers that commit to green environmental policies, as well as those that have a history 
of strong ethical and social practices. 
Killam has a mandatory checklist that is signed by the vendor prior to commencing work. This 
checklist includes proof of both workers compensation and liability insurance, as well as disclosure 
of any health and safety infractions, fines, and documentation of proper safety training, and that 
the supplier will adhere to Killam’s sustainability policy. This ensures business is conducted ethically 
in accordance with Killam’s policies, and reduces third-party risk.
Commitment to Social
22 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 2020  Board Structure
[GRI 102-18] 
Killam believes that effective corporate governance is critical to its continued and long-term 
success and helps maximize unitholder value. The Trustees strongly believe their commitment to 
sound governance practices is in the best interest of the Trust and its unitholders and contributes 
to effective and efficient decision making. Each Trustee of the Board brings their unique 
background, experience and skill set, including expertise in corporate governance.
The Board carries out its responsibilities with the support of several Board committees. The 
Governance and ESG Committee is responsible for the oversight of Killam’s ESG mandate and 
initiatives. For more information on Killam’s Board Committees, visit:  
killamreit.com/investor-relations/corporate-governance.
Independence
In 2020, Killam’s Board of Trustees comprised of ten Trustees, seven of whom are considered to be 
independent. Killam believes that separating the position of Chair of the Board and the position 
of the CEO is key in effectively providing independent Board oversight and in holding senior 
management accountable to the Board for the Trust’s operations. Killam has an independent, 
non-executive Chair of the Board, and all Board committee members are independent. It is the 
Board’s policy for non-management Trustees to hold regularly scheduled meetings without the 
attendance of Management of the Trust (in-camera meetings). Time is specifically reserved for 
in-camera meetings at the beginning of the Board, Audit, Compensation and Governance & ESG 
Committee meetings.
Ethics
[GRI 102-16, 102-17] 
Killam is a good corporate citizen and maintains a high standard of integrity in conducting 
business. Killam’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the Code) establishes a framework of 
guidelines and principles to oversee and foster ethical behaviour in all business activities. The 
principles in the Code are intended to: 
• Establish ethical and fair practice in all business relationships, dealings and activities. 
• Ensure compliance with all laws, regulations and Killam policies. 
• Facilitate a safe working environment with respect for people and a commitment to diversity, 
equal opportunity and freedom from exposure to improper conduct and discrimination. 
• Maintain professional integrity in all business dealings. 
• Protect Killam’s assets, ensuring only proper use for Killam’s benefit. 
• Safeguard the use of confidential information and maintain proper reporting procedures. 
• Provide additional, practical insight into applying Killam’s Core Values, specifically Do the Right 
Thing, to Killam’s everyday operations.Commitment to Governance
23 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 2020Killam has a Whistleblower Policy to encourage individuals and businesses to report any harmful 
activity without fear of retribution. The Whistleblower Policy underscores Killam’s commitment to 
operating at the highest standards of accountability and transparency.
Through Killam’s corporate website, any individual can complete a confidential form to report any 
harmful activity that they may have witnessed. Reports are sent directly to the Chair of the Audit 
Committee and all information submitted remains confidential. 
Diversity and Inclusion
[GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 for GRI 405] 
Killam is committed to providing a 
supportive and inclusive workplace for all 
employees. Employees are encouraged 
to develop their full potential and use 
their unique talents, maximizing the 
efficiency of the team. Killam recognizes 
the benefits which arise from employee 
diversity, including a strengthened 
corporate culture, improved employee 
retention, access to different perspectives 
and ideas and the benefit of all available 
talent. Killam is an equal opportunity employer. All decisions regarding recruitment, hiring, 
promotion, compensation, employee development and all other terms and conditions of 
employment are made without regard to race, nationality or ethnic origin, colour, religion, age, 
sex, sexual orientation, gender orientation, marital status, civil status, physical or mental disability 
or any other protected ground, as set out in Killam’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and 
applicable human rights legislation. Killam’s commitment to a diverse and inclusive workplace is 
apparent in the following initiatives, policies and practices: 
• Killam has both employee and Board of Trustees diversity policies to promote inclusiveness, 
diversity and leadership opportunities. 
• Three of ten Board positions and six of eleven senior management positions are occupied by 
females. 
• Killam’s commitment to diversity is evident in employee policies, handbooks, documents and 
employee portal. More importantly, respect and fair treatment are an essential part of the culture. 
• Respectful workplace training is provided to employees on a regular basis. 
• Killam has partnered with the Canadian Centre for Diversity & Inclusion (CCDI) to assist in 
delivering a strong D&I program.
• Any discriminatory practices or behaviours in the workplace are not tolerated and are addressed 
immediately.Commitment to Governance
24 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 202025 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 2019  Risk Management & Cyber Security
Killam’s risk management program ensures Management assesses the Trust’s largest risks as well as 
stays informed on emerging issues. The safety of Killam’s residents 
and staff are a top priority. Response to the COVID-19 pandemic 
was a priority in 2020 and Killam quickly activated response to 
the pandemic, and continues to closely follow provincial health 
safety guidelines to keep employees, residents, partners and its 
communities safe. 
On a quarterly basis, Killam’s Risk Management Committee, including senior representatives 
from all departments, addresses initiatives to improve the safety and security of Killam’s portfolio. 
Initiatives implemented in 2020 included enhanced risk reporting through a cloud-based risk 
management software solution rolled out in 2019, process improvements for managing tenant 
and contractor insurance certificates, procurement of water loss kits to reduce damage from 
water claims and piloting of a firestopping product. In addition, weekly and monthly property 
inspections by Killam’s property management team identify and address risk mitigation.
Cyber security is a risk facing all organizations and one Killam takes seriously. The protection 
of Killam’s data is the foundation of its cyber security program and ensures the resident and all 
proprietary data remain safe and secure. Killam works to reduce its cyber threat exposure and 
continued to enhance its cyber capabilities in the past year by migrating all data to cloud-based 
solutions with high-quality partners. Commitment to Governance
Killam uses multi-factor 
authentication for all 
corporate emails and data, 
with cloud-to-cloud backup 
and recovery systems.
25 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 2020  Educating employees in cybersecurity is a key priority that when coupled with robust firewall 
software, provides maximum protection. As well, Killam has deployed software that simulates 
phishing emails. Mandatory training is required if employees fail the random simulations. At Killam, 
advanced email security servers lever artificial intelligence and machine learning algorithms as front-
line defense for email security, multi-factor authentication is required for all employees to access all 
corporate emails and data, and cloud-to-cloud backup and recovery systems are provided. Killam 
continues to develop cyber defense through on-going investment in cyber technologies and driving 
the education and awareness of employees.
Stakeholder Engagement
[GRI 102-40, 102-42, 102-43]
Killam is committed to engaging with all its stakeholders on ESG issues. Killam engages with its 
stakeholders in the following ways: 
Residents – Killam surveys its residents annually and uses this feedback to action and focus on 
areas of importance. 
Employees – Killam surveys its employees annually for feedback on a variety of topics including 
compensations and benefits, career opportunities and advancement, diversity and inclusion, as 
well as safety and comfort in their workplace. This feedback is used to find areas of opportunity to 
drive employee programming.
Investors – Killam regularly meets with investors at conferences, private meetings and on property 
tours to discuss a variety of topics including operations, strategy, corporate governance and 
sustainability. 
Communities – Killam is an active participant in the communities in which it operates and regularly 
engages in dialogue with local groups on community activities. Killam also receives feedback on 
its development projects. 
In addition to effective stakeholder engagement, Killam responds to investor and ESG-related 
emails and inquiries on an ongoing basis. Any inquiries or comments may be directed through the 
VP of Investor Relations & Sustainability: Nancy Alexander, nalexander@killamreit.com.
Further Information
For further information about Killam’s sustainability program and performance, please refer 
to Killam’s website at killamreit.com/esg. For governance-related disclosures, please refer 
to Killam’s website at killamreit.com/investor-relations/corporate-governance, and Killam's 
Management Information Circular and Annual Information Form available on sedar.com.
If you have questions about this report, please email nalexander@killamreit.com.Commitment to Governance
26 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 2020Killam’s ESG Performance Data 
Killam's ESG Data Table
2020 2019 Indicator
Portfolio 
Number of apartment properties                    206  199                     IF‐RE‐000.A
Number of apartment units 17,048            16,325               IF‐RE‐000.A
Leasable floor area (SF) 17,595,296    16,995,617       IF‐RE‐000.B
Number of indirectly managed assets 1                       ‐                      IF‐RE‐000.C
Occupancy Rate 96.5% 97.0% IF‐RE‐000.D
Number of MHC properties 39                     38                        IF‐RE‐000.A
Number of MHC sites 5,875               5,786                 IF‐RE‐000.A
Acres of land 1,707               1,643                 IF‐RE‐000.B
Number of indirectly managed assets ‐                    ‐                      IF‐RE‐000.C
Occupancy Rate 97.8% 97.8% IF‐RE‐000.D
Number of commercial properties 8                       7                          IF‐RE‐000.A
Leasable floor area (SF) 749,661          771,715             IF‐RE‐000.B
Number of indirectly managed assets 1                       2                          IF‐RE‐000.C
Occupancy Rate 91.0% 89.6% IF‐RE‐000.D
Environmental Performance 
Energy consumption data coverage as a percentage of total floor  area, by 
property subsector 100% 100%IF‐RE‐130a.1
Consumption from non‐renewable resources (MWh)
Electricity consumption 188,818          174,316             IF‐RE‐130a.2 and GRI 302‐1
Natural gas, oil, propane, petrol and steam consumption 156,555          162,761             IF‐RE‐130a.2 and GRI 302‐1
Total 345,373          337,077            IF‐RE‐130a.2 and GRI 302‐1
Total energy generated from renewable consumption (MWh) 7                       ‐                      IF‐RE‐130a.2
Percentage grid electricity 99.998% 100.0% IF‐RE‐130a.2
Percentage renewable 0.002% −% IF‐RE‐130a.2
Like‐for‐like percentage change in energy consumption (1.0)% 2.4% IF‐RE‐130a.3
Percentage of tenants that are separately metered or submetered  for grid 
electricity consumption 85.9% 85.3%IF‐RE‐410a.2
Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions (tCO2e) 29,194            30,542               GRI 305‐1 and TCFD 10
Gross direct (Scope 2) GHG emissions (tCO2e) 18,168            18,651               GRI 305‐2 and TCFD 10
Gross direct (Scope 3) GHG emissions (tCO2e) 49,370            48,135               TCFD 10
GHG intensity ratio (tCO2e/sf) 3.83                 4.06                    GRI 302‐3 and 305‐4
Water withdrawal data coverage as a percentage of total floor area 95.2% 94.9%IF‐RE‐140a.1
Water withdrawal data coverage as a percentage of floor area in regions 
with High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress 100% 100%IF‐RE‐140a.2
Total water withdrawn (m3) 2,031,768       1,942,232         GRI 303‐5 and IF‐RE‐140a.2
Percentage of total water withdrawn in regions with High or Ext remely 
High Baseline Water Stress 10.4% 7.8% IF‐RE‐140a.2
Like‐for‐like percentage change in water withdrawn for portfoli o area 
with data coverage 3.5% ‐1.3%IF‐RE‐140a.3
Percentage of tenants that are separately metered or submetered  for 
water withdrawal 2.3% 2.5%IF‐RE‐410a.2Apartments
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
WaterEnergyCommercialManufactured Home Communities
27 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 2020Killam’s ESG Performance Data 
2020 2019 Indicator
Board of Directors  GRI 102‐8 and 405‐1
Female 30% 20%
Male 70% 80%
Senior Management ¹ 
Female 50% 55%
Male 50% 45%
Overall Employees ²
Female 48% 49%
Male 51% 51%
Non‐binary ³ 1% −%
Permanent Employees 
Female 292 (48%) 306 (49%)
Male 313 (51%) 317 (51%)
Non‐binary 6 (1%) ‐                     
Temporary Employees 
Female 24 (56%) 11 (28%)
Male 19 (44%) 28 (72%)
Non‐binary ‐                      ‐                     
Full‐time Employees 
Female 228 (48%) 244 (49%)
Male 239 (51%) 251 (51%)
Non‐binary 6 (1%) ‐                     
Part‐time Employees 
Female 88 (49%) 73 (44%)
Male 93 (51%) 94 (56%)
Non‐binary ‐                      ‐                     
Self‐identified BIPOC  11% 11% GRI 405‐1
Persons with a Disability 6% 6%
LGBTQ2+ 6% 6%
Senior Management GRI 405‐1
Under 30 years old −% −%
30‐50 years old 50% 45%
Over 50 50% 55%
Overall Employees ²
Under 30 years old 13% 10%
30‐50 years old 36% 38%
Over 50 51% 52%
¹ Includes Killam's C‐suite, Executive Vice President, Senior Vic e Presidents' and Vice Presidents'.
² Total employee count as at December 31 (2020 ‐ 654; 2019 ‐ 662) .
³ Non‐binary includes employees who do not identify as male or fe male. 
4 Killam completes an employee diversity survey bi‐annually, whic h was last completed in 2019. 4Gender RepresentationSocial Performance 
Diversity Representation 4
Age Representation 
28 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 20202020 2019 Indicator
Total Employee Hires GRI 401‐1
As a percentage of total employees 19% 24%
Number of people 121 161
Employee hires by age group
Under 30 years old 33 (25%) 37 (19%)
30‐50 years old 53 (40%) 78 (40%)
Over 50 46 (35%) 80 (41%)
Employee hires by gender
Female 64 (48%) 92 (47%)
Male 67 (51%) 96 (49%)
Non‐binary ¹ 1 (1%) 7 (4%)
Total Employee Turnover GRI 401‐1
As a percentage of total employees 22% 23%
Number of people 145 154
Employee turnover by age group
Under 30 years old 27 (19%) 31 (20%)
30‐50 years old 59 (41%) 63 (41%)
Over 50 59 (40%) 60 (39%)
Employee turnover by gender
Female 73 (50%) 78 (51%)
Male 71 (49%) 75 (49%)
Non‐binary 1 (1%) 1 (1%)
Average hours of training by gender ² GRI 404‐1
Female 4                          5
Male 4                          6
Non‐binary 6                          18
Average hours of training by employee category
Senior Management ³ 8                          1                         
Resident Managers 4                          6                         
Maintenance Staff 5                          9                         
Other 3                          3                         
Average hours of training per employee 4                          5                         
Employee's receiving regular performance reviews GRI 404‐3
Female Employees 90% 95%
Male Employees 90% 96%
Non‐binary Employees 100% 100%
Senior Management 11% 100%
Resident Managers 94% 97%
Maintenance Staff 88% 100%
All Other Employees 85% 91%
Overall Employees 88% 95%
¹ Non‐binary includes employees who do not identify as male or  female. 
² Average training hours are calculated using the total employe e count. 
³ Includes Killam's C‐suite, Executive Vice President, Senior V ice Presidents' and Vice Presidents'.Social Performance 
Employee Hires
Employee Turnover
Employee Training 
Performance ReviewsKillam’s ESG Performance Data 
29 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 2020Killam’s ESG Performance Data 
2020 2019 Indicator
Social Performance 
Resident satisfaction score (%) 87% 88%
Portfolio assets for which health and safety impacts are assess ed for 
improvement 100% 100% GRI 416‐1
Full Time Employees GRI 102‐8
Halifax                            209                              224 
Moncton                              49                                47 
Fredericton                              34                                42 
Saint John                              34                                35 
Ottawa                              25                                26 
Southwest Ontario                              52                                54 
Prince Edward Island                              26                                25 
Newfoundland                              22                               25  
Alberta                              22                                17 
BC                                2                                 ‐   
Part Time/Temporary Employees
Halifax                              62                                68 
Moncton                              33                                27 
Fredericton                              16                                14 
Saint John                                7                                  7 
Ottawa                                6                                  3 
Southwest Ontario                              14                                13 
Prince Edward Island                              27                                22 
Newfoundland                              10                                12 
Alberta                                2                                  1 
BC                                2                                 ‐   
Total                            654                              662 
Governance Performance 
Board oversight on ESG Strategy Yes Yes GRI 102‐18
Executive level responsibility on ESG strategy and performance
President and Chief Executive Officer Yes Yes GRI 102‐20
Chief Financial Officer Yes Yes GRI 102‐20
Reporting level of Executives for ESG strategy and performance B oard of Trustees Board of Trustees GRI 102‐20
Independent Non‐executive Trustees 89% 75% GRI 102‐22
Non‐Independent Non‐executive Trustees 11% 25% GRI 102‐22
Self‐identified female/male  30% / 70% 20% / 80% GRI 102‐22
 ¹ Total employee count as at December 31 (2020 ‐ 654; 2019 ‐ 662) .Resident health, safety and satisfaction 
Board CompositionEmployees by Region ¹
Board Governance
30 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 2020Global Reporting Initiative Content Index
Global Reporting Initiative Content Index
Indicator Description Explanation/Section
102‐1 The name of the organization Killam Apartment REIT ("Killam ")
102‐2 Activities, brands, products and servicesKillam is a growth‐oriented Canadian real estate investment tru st owning, operating 
and developing apartments and manufactured home communities. Ki llam owns a $3.8 
billion real estate portfolio, located in Atlantic Canada, Onta rio, Alberta and British 
Columbia.
102‐3 Location of headquartersKillam's corporate head office is located in Halifax, Nova Scot ia, with property 
management offices in all our major regions. 
102‐4 Location of operationsKillam's operations are within Canada, for details on Killam's  specific operating regions 
see About Killam and Killam's Strategy pg. 3
102‐5 Ownership and legal formKillam is an open‐ended real estate investment trust ("REIT") f ormed under the laws of 
the Province of Ontario pursuant to an amended and restated dec laration of trust 
dated November 27, 2015 (the "Declaration of Trust"). The Decla ration of Trust is 
available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com.
102‐6 Markets served About Killam and Killam's Strategy, pg. 3
102‐7 Scale of the organizationAs of December 31, 2020, Killam had approximately $3.8 billion  in portfolio assets and 
approximately 700 employees across seven provinces within Canad a.
About Killam and Killam's Strategy, pg. 3 and Employees, pg. 17
102‐8 Information of employees and other workers Employees, pg. 1 7
102‐9 Supply chain Supply Chain Responsibility, pg. 22
102‐10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply ch ainKillam did not undergo any significant changes to the organizat ion or its supply chain in 
2020. 
102‐11 Precautionary principle or approach Killam does not currently use the Precautionary Principal to pr otect against 
environmental degradation. The SASB and TCFD indexes below refe rences further 
discussions on Killam's climate change risk management practice s.
102‐12 External initiatives United Nations Sustainable Developmen t Goals ("SDGs") pg. 7
102‐13 Membership of associationsBuilding Owners and Managers Association (BOMA)
Calgary Residential Rental Association (CRRA)
Canadian Federation Apartment Association (CFAA)
Eastern Ontario Landlord Organization (EOLO)
Federation of Rental Housing Providers in Ontario (FRPO)
Greater Toronto Apartment Association (GTAA)
Investment Property Owners Association of Nova Scotia (IPOANS)
London Property Management Association (LPMA)
Real Property Association of Canada (REALPAC) 
Waterloo Region Home Builders Association (WRHBA)
102‐14 Statement from senior decision‐maker Letter from the Presi dent & CEO, pg. 2
102‐16 Values, principals, standards, and norms of behaviourESG Methodology, pg. 8
Social, pg. 15
Ethics, pg. 23
102‐17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Ethics, pg . 23
102‐18 Governance structureGovernance, pg. 23. Please also refer to Killam's 2020 Manageme nt Information 
Circular, Governance Practices pg. 54.
102‐19 Delegating authorityESG Methodology, pg. 8, Social, pg. 15, Ethics, pg. 23. Please  also refer to Killam's 2020 
Management Information Circular for additional governance infor mation.
102‐20Executive‐level responsibility for economic, environment and so cial 
topicsESG Methodology, pg. 8
Killam's President & Chief Executive Officer, Executive Vice Pr esident and Chief 
Financial Officer all have individual performance targets linke d to compensation to 
enhance Killam's ESG Program. Killam has a Vice President of In vestor Relations and 
Sustainability who champions Killam's ESG initiatives along wit h the executive team 
members. In 2020, Killam executives met their target to expand  Killam's ESG program 
which was supported by a 15 point or 32% improvement in Killam' s 2020 GRESB 
submission over its initial submission in 2019. The President &  CEO reports into the 
Board of Trustee's Governance and ESG Committee who oversee Kil lam's ESG practices 
and initiatives. 
102‐22 Composition of the highest governance body and its commit teesESG Data table, pg. 27. Please also refer to Killam's 2020 Mana gement Information 
Circular , Governance Practices  pg. 54 and Committees  pg. 67.GRI  
Organizational Profile
Strategy
Ethics and integrity
Governance
31 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 2020Global Reporting Initiative Content Index
Global Reporting Initiative Content Index
Indicator Description Explanation/Section
102‐40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Engagement, pg. 26
102‐41 Collective bargaining agreements non‐unionized; 0%
102‐42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder Engagem ent, pg. 26
102‐43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement,  pg. 26
102‐44 Key topics and concerns raised Nothing material to note.
102‐45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statement sKillam Apartment REIT and its principal subsidiaries as listed  in Killam's Annual 
Information Form on sedar.com
102‐46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Materiality A ssessment, pg. 8
102‐47 List of material topicsKillam's material topics addressed in this report include Board  Composition and 
Governance, Regulatory Compliance, Data and Cyber Security, Eth ics, Health Wellbeing 
and Safety, Employee Engagement Training and Development, Green house Gas 
Emissions, Resident Satisfaction, Sustainable Development desig n and product quality, 
Energy and Water Management, Insurance and Risk Management, Div ersity and 
Inclusion, Risk of Climate Change, Waste Management, Sustainabl e Communities and 
Supply Chain Responsibility. Please also refer to Materiality A ssessment, pg. 8
102‐48 Restatements of information No material restatements.
102‐49 Changes in reporting No material changes. 
102‐50 Reporting periodAll information in the report covers the year ended December 31, 2020, unless 
otherwise stated.
102‐51 Date of most recent reportKillam's 2019 ESG Report provides comparable information to 202 0, and was prepared 
in accordance with GRI Core Standards. 
102‐52 Reporting cycle Annual
102‐53 Contact point for questions regarding the reportNancy Alexander, Vice President of Investor Relations & Sustain ability; 
nalexander@killamreit.com
102‐54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards T his report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standar ds: Core Option
102‐55 GRI content index GRI Content Index, pg. 31
102‐56 External assurance Killam's management was responsible for preparing Killam's 2020  ESG Report, and for 
maintaining effective internal control over the data and inform ation disclosed. Various 
internal reviews were undertaken to ensure the accuracy and com pleteness of the 
information and data disclosed in this report. Killam's 2020 GH G Inventory was 
independently verified by Quinn and Partners.
103‐1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 2020 Ann ual Report, Strategy pg. 2
103‐2 The management approach and its components 2020 Annual Repo rt, Strategy pg. 7
103‐3 Evaluation of the management approach 2020 Annual Report, p g. 6
201‐1 Direct economic value generated and distributed2020 Annual Report, Financial and Operational Highlights, pg. 4  and Distribution 
Reinvestment Plan and Net Distributions Paid, pg. 64
201‐2Financial Implications and other risks and opportunities due to  
climate chan geClimate Change, pg. 13
103‐1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Commitme nt to the Environment, pg. 9 and Green House Gas Emissions, pg.  11
103‐2 The management approach and its components Commitment to th e Environment, pg. 9 and Green House Gas Emissions, pg. 11
103‐3 Evaluation of the management approach Commitment to the Env ironment, pg. 9 and Green House Gas Emissions, pg. 11
302‐1 Energy consumption within the organization ESG Data table,  pg. 27
302‐3 Energy Intensity ESG Data table, pg. 27
103‐1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Water Ma nagement, pg. 14
103‐2 The management approach and its components Water Management , pg. 14
103‐3 Evaluation of the management approach Water Management, pg.  14
303‐1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Water Manageme nt, pg. 14
303‐5 Water Consumption ESG Data table, pg. 27Water and effluents GRI  
Stakeholder engagement
Reporting practice
Economic Performance
Energy
32 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 2020Global Reporting Initiative Content Index
Global Reporting Initiative Content Inde x
Indicator Description Explanation/Section
103‐1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Greenhou se Gas Emissions, pg. 11
103‐2 The management approach and its components Greenhouse Gas E missions, pg. 11
103‐3 Evaluation of the management approach Greenhouse Gas Emissi ons, pg. 11
305‐1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions ESG Data table, pg. 27
305‐2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions ESG Data table, pg.  27
305‐4 GHG emissions intensity ESG Data table, pg. 27
103‐1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Employee s, pg. 17
103‐2 The management approach and its components Employees, pg. 1 7
103‐3 Evaluation of the management approach Employees, pg. 17
401‐1 New employee hire and employee turnover ESG Data table, pg. 27
103‐1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Training and Development, pg. 18
103‐2 The management approach and its components Training and Dev elopment, pg. 18
103‐3 Evaluation of the management approach Training and Developm ent, pg. 18
404‐1 Average hours of training per year per employee ESG Data table, pg. 27
404‐2Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistanc e 
programs Training and Development, pg. 18
404‐3Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and caree r 
development reviews ESG Data table, pg. 27
103‐1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Diversity and Inclusion, pg. 17 and 24
103‐2 The management approach and its components Diversity and In clusion, pg. 17 and 24
103‐3 Evaluation of the management approach Diversity and Inclusi on, pg. 17 and 24
405‐1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees ESG Data table, pg. 27
103‐1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Residents, pg. 20
103‐2 The management approach and its components Residents, pg. 2 0
103‐3 Evaluation of the management approach Residents, pg. 20
416‐1Assessment of health and safety impacts of product and service 
categoriesESG Data table, pg. 27GRI  
EmploymentEmissions
Training and Education
Diversity and Equal Opportunity
Resident Health and Safety
33 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 2020SASB Index
SASB Index
SASB 
Indicator Description Explanation/Section
IF‐RE‐130a.1Energy consumption data coverage as a percentage of total floor  
area, by property subsector ESG Data table, pg. 27
IF‐RE‐130a.2(1) Total energy consumed by portfolio area with data coverage,  
(2) percentage grid electricity, and (3) percentage renewable,  by 
property subsector ESG Data table, pg. 27
IF‐RE‐130a.3Like‐for‐like percentage change in energy consumption for the 
portfolio area with data coverage, by property subsector ESG Dat a table, pg. 27
IF‐RE‐130a.4Percentage of eligible portfolio that (1) has an energy rating  and 
(2) is certified to ENERGY STAR, by property subsector0.4% of Killam's portfolio has an energy rating, and 0% is cert ified 
to Energy Star.
IF‐RE‐130a.5Description of how building energy management considerations 
are integrated into property investment analysis and operationa l 
strategy Energy Management, pg. 9
IF‐RE‐140a.1Water withdrawal data coverage as a percentage of (1) total flo or 
area and (2) floor area in regions with High or Extremely High 
Baseline Water Stress, by property subsector ESG Data table, pg.  27
IF‐RE‐140a.2(1) Total water withdrawn by portfolio area with data coverage 
and (2) percentage in regions with High or Extremely High 
Baseline Water Stress, by property subsector ESG Data table, pg.  27
IF‐RE‐140a.3Like‐for‐like percentage change in water withdrawn for portfoli o 
area with data coverage, by property subsector ESG Data table, pg. 27
IF‐RE‐140a.4Description of water management risks and discussion of 
strategies and practices to mitigate those risks Water Managemen t, pg. 14
IF‐RE‐410a.1(1) Percentage of new leases that contain a cost recovery clause 
for resource efficiency related capital improvements and (2) 
associated leased floor area, by property subsector0% of Killam's new leases contain a cost recovery clause for 
efficiency related capital improvements.
IF‐RE‐410a.2Percentage of tenants that are separately metered or 
submetered for (1) grid electricity consumption and (2) water 
withdrawals, by property subsector ESG Data table, pg. 27
IF‐RE‐410a.3Discussion of approach to measuring, incentivizing, and 
improving sustainability impacts of tenants Energy Management, p g. 9 and Water Management, pg. 14
IF‐RE‐450a.1Area of properties located in 100‐year flood zones, by property  
subsector Killam does currently not disclose this data.
IF‐RE‐450a.2Description of climate change risk exposure analysis, degree of  
systematic portfolio exposure, and strategies for mitigating ri sks Climate Change, pg. 13
IF‐RE‐000.A Number of assets, by property subsector Refer to pg. 27 for number of assets, by property subsector.
IF‐RE‐000.B Leasable floor area, by property subsector Refer to p g. 27 for leasable floor area, by property subsector.
IF‐RE‐000.C Percentage of indirectly managed assets, by property subsectorRefer to pg. 27 for percentage of indirectly managed assets, by 
property subsector.
IF‐RE‐000.D Average occupancy rate, by property subsectorRefer to pg. 27  for average occupancy rate,  but property 
subsector. Energy Management
Water Management
Management of Tenant Sustainability Impacts
Climate Change Adaptation
Activity Metrics
34 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 2020TCFD Index
TCFD Index
TCFD
Indicator Description Explanation/Section
1Describe the board’s oversight of climate‐related risks and 
opportunities. Climate Change, pg. 13
2Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate ‐
related risks and opportunities. Climate Change, pg. 13
3Describe the climate‐related risks and opportunities the 
organization has identified over the short, medium, and long 
term. Climate Change, pg. 13
4Describe the impact of climate‐related risks and opportunities 
on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial 
planning. ESG Methodology, pg. 8 and Climate Change, pg. 13
5Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking 
into consideration different climate‐related scenarios, includi ng 
a 2°C or lower scenario.Killam is actively working towards reducing GHG emissions, 
and is establishing a long‐term plan to move to net‐zero 
carbon emissions. Refer to Greenhouse Gas Emissions, pg. 
11 and Climate Change, pg. 13 for more information. 
6Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and 
assessing climate‐related risks. Climate Change, pg. 13
7Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate‐
related risks. Climate Change, pg. 13
8Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and 
managing climate‐related risks are integrated into the 
organization’s overall risk management. Climate Change, pg. 13
9Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate ‐
related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and r isk 
management process. Killam's ESG Targets, pg. 6 and Climate Chan ge, pg. 13
10Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and the related risks. ESG Data  table, pg. 27
11Describe the targets used by the organization to manage 
climate‐related risks and opportunities and performance 
against targets.2020 Goals and Performance, pg. 4, Killam's ESG Targets, pg. 
6 and Climate Change, pg. 13Governance
Strategy
Risk Management
Metrics and Targets
35 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | 2020Killam Apartment REIT
Suite 100, 3700 Kempt Road
Halifax, Nova Scotia  B3K 4X8
1.866.453.8900  |  killamreit.com  
TSX: KMP .UN