KILLAM APARTMENT REIT |ES&G  1
2018 Environmental, Social  
and Governance (ESG) Report2 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | ES&G
Table of Contents  
Letter From The President & CEO 3
Our Sustainability Policy — A Commitment to ESG 4
Our ESG Approch 4
Our Core Values 4
Our 2019 Goals 4
2018 Highlights and Achievements  5
Reducing Energy Emissions  6
Renewable Energy and Efficiency Initiatives 7
Developing the Next Generation of Energy-Efficient Apartments 8
Contributing to Our Communities 10
Providing Outstanding Customer Service  11
The Right People 12
Leading with Strong Governance  142018 Environmental, Social  
and Governance (ESG) ReportKILLAM APARTMENT REIT |ES&G  3
We are pleased to present Killam’s 2018 Environmental, Social and 
Governance (ESG) Report. This report highlights our commitment to ESG 
issues and how ESG factors help guide our corporate strategy.
As one of Canada’s largest housing providers, we take the 
responsibilities of corporate citizenship seriously. Our core values of 
Build Community and Do the Right Thing guide our commitment to ESG 
programs and investments.
Our environmental efforts are focused on two priorities: improving the 
efficiency of our current buildings and developing the next generation 
of energy-efficient apartments. We are in the third year of a five-year, 
$25-million energy program, and our investments have already led 
to significant reductions in water and electricity consumption and 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. We have three developments recently 
completed or under construction that incorporate technologies to 
maximize energy and water efficiencies, including geothermal heating 
and water sub-metering. Investing in energy initiatives reduces our 
carbon footprint and leads to higher earnings.
As a corporate citizen, Killam is an active participant in our communities, 
supporting local charities with shelter, funds and employee time. We are 
focused on customer service excellence and work diligently to maintain 
our status as an employer of choice.
Killam’s Board of Trustees and governance processes are another key 
to our success. Our eight non-executive trustees bring significant real 
estate, corporate finance, government relations and management 
expertise to Killam. Individually, and as part of the Audit, Compensation, 
Governance, Nomination and Succession Committees, trustees are 
responsible for ensuring Killam fulfills its commitments as a responsible 
corporate citizen. In fact, our Governance Committee reviews and 
approves our annual ESG report and our performance against our ESG 
goals.
Many of our employees are highly involved members of their 
communities. We employ passionate individuals who dedicate their 
time and energy to a multitude of causes and charities, some of which 
we highlight in this report. We support these activities by providing paid 
time off for volunteer work. We also often provide financial contributions. 
In 2019, we are making the commitment to participate in the Global Real 
Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) rating, a well-known global 
ESG benchmark for real assets, which measures performance against 
sustainability benchmarks including energy use, GHG emissions, water 
and waste, performance improvement programs and community 
engagement. Although we are pleased with the progress we have made 
thus far, there is more to do. We remain committed to advancing our 
ESG initiatives, and reporting annually on our progress. 
Sustainability will continue to be a priority at Killam. It makes good 
business sense, and it’s the right thing to do.
Yours truly, 
 
Philip Fraser
President & CEOLetter from the President & CEO4 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | ES&GOur Sustainability Policy — A Commitment to ESG
Killam is a leader in ESG practices within the Canadian real estate sector, and has developed a sustainability 
policy that emphasizes our commitment. The policy applies to all Killam employees. It is recommended by the 
Governance Committee and approved by the Board of Trustees. The following is Killam’s commitment to ESG, 
included in the ESG policy:
	Invest in new technology and initiatives to increase sustainability and lower our carbon footprint across the 
portfolio with a focus on reducing waste, energy and water usage.
	Support and invest in our employees through training and development opportunities and providing access 
to a safe and positive workplace.
	Provide outstanding customer service and a sense of community at our properties.
	Support community initiatives in the communities in which we operate, with an emphasis on affordable 
housing.
	Establish and implement robust governance policies and practices.
	Report annually on our ESG programs, new initiatives and performance against targets.
	Review our annual ESG benchmark ratings (from various industry bodies) and target areas for improvement 
each year.
Our ESG Approach
Killam launched an ESG Oversight Committee in early 2019 to provide guidance and ensure the integration of 
ESG into Killam’s strategic objectives. In addition, management regularly reports progress against ESG targets 
to the Board’s Governance Committee. 
Our approach is also underlined by our Core Values of Build Community and Do the Right Thing. Killam works 
proactively and diligently to monitor and reduce our environmental footprint, to ensure effective and ethical 
governance and to invest in ways that stimulate sustainable economic growth.
Our Core Values
Killam has five Core Values that shape the way we do business. 
Our 2019 Goals
Our sustainability goals for 2019 include: 
	Participate in the GRESB rating, a well-known global ESG benchmark for real assets.
	Invest $5 million in energy-efficiency initiatives.
	Reduce carbon emissions by 3% (on a per square foot basis).
	Invest in social initiatives across our portfolio, focusing both on our people and our communities.KILLAM APARTMENT REIT |ES&G  52018 Highlights and Achievements
(1) Results from 2018 Corporate Research Associates (CRA) Independent Resident SurveyEMPLOYER 
AWARDS
Recognized as an employer of 
choice, including being one 
of Canada’s Most Admired 
Corporate Cultures.2018ENERGY 
SAVINGS
Invested $2.1 million in LED 
lighting retrofits in 2018.
EFFICIENT 
HEATING  
Invested $1.6 million in heating 
efficiency projects.
CHARITABLE 
GIVING
Donated over $300,000 in cash 
and in-kind gifts to support  
organizations across Canada.RESIDENT 
SATISFACTION
Achieved 88%(1) resident 
satisfaction rating in annual 
resident survey.
GOVERNANCE
Awarded the highest 
rating available for Governance 
from Institutional Shareholder 
Services (ISS).COMMUNITY 
OUTREACH
Supported affordable housing 
with more than 600 subsidized 
units through community 
partnerships.WATER 
CONSERVATION
Completed the installation of low-
flow toilets across the portfolio.6 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | ES&GReducing Energy Emissions 
Killam has a long history of investing in energy efficiencies. When natural 
gas was first introduced to the market in Atlantic Canada in 2004, Killam 
was an early adopter. We converted over 98% of the portfolio in Nova 
Scotia and New Brunswick from oil burning boilers to cleaner natural gas 
within six years. This rapid adoption and conversion to natural gas has led to 
significant GHG reductions; over 50,000 tons of GHG reductions have been 
achieved in the last 15 years from smart fuel switching. Eliminating the use 
and storage of oil onsite has also greatly diminished Killam’s environmental 
risk associated with older properties.  
We seek to continuously improve and maintain our buildings, with a focus 
on reducing waste, energy and water use. To achieve this, we have been 
finding practical solutions for different properties that make the highest 
impact in reducing the environmental footprint. Our portfolio of over 200 
properties provides opportunities to invest in projects that improve the 
long-term sustainability of our assets, while generating average annual 
returns of more than 20%.
With $5 million dedicated annually to energy-efficiency projects, Killam 
invests over 10% of its overall capital budget in gaining operating 
efficiencies, lowering operating costs and reducing its impact on the 
environment.
Since commencing the five-year, $25 million energy-efficiency program 
in 2016, we have seen a 15% reduction in GHG intensity (as measured by 
CO2e/SF). We are targeting another 3% 
reduction in carbon intensity in 2019. 
Killam also tracks its energy intensity 
expense per square foot (SF), which 
measures all energy sources (including 
water) used within a property, converted 
to a single common measurement of 
dollars per SF. At the end of 2018, there 
has been a $0.19 per SF reduction since 
the 2015 base year (13%), representing 
an estimated $4.3 million in annual energy cost savings, more than 
offsetting rising energy rates.KILLAM’S 
GREEN 
FUTURE
Killam will continue 
to build on our 
current successes to 
make buildings more 
sustainable and resilient 
to the impacts of climate 
change. Killam’s green 
future is already being 
laid with the advanced 
building technologies 
we are planning 
and piloting now. As 
Killam grows through 
new development 
and acquisitions, we 
challenge ourselves 
to ensure our impact 
on the environment is 
minimized. Carbon
Intensity
(kgCO2e/ft2)15
16
17
18              33.59
     29.98
   29.31
28.60 
$0$1000$2000$3000$4000$5000
$0.9$1.2$1.41
$1.2 2$1.5 5 Year Energy Investment Plan
Energy Intensity ($/SF)
 Actual Spend (000s)
 Forecast Cost (000s)
 Energy Intensity ($/SF)
 15 16 17 18 19 20 21Carbon
Intensity
(kgCO2e/ft2)15
16
17
18              33.59
     29.98
   29.31
28.60 
$0$1000$2000$3000$4000$5000
$0.9$1.2$1.41
$1.2 2$1.5 5 Year Energy Investment Plan
Energy Intensity ($/SF)
 Actual Spend (000s)
 Forecast Cost (000s)
 Energy Intensity ($/SF)
 15 16 17 18 19 20 21KILLAM APARTMENT REIT |ES&G  7Renewable Energy and Efficiency Initiatives
SOLAR
Killam has operational solar thermal 
heating systems at four properties. 
These systems together save 
approximately 2,800 gigajoules 
(GJ) of natural gas used to heat 
domestic hot water. Killam plans to 
install additional solar photovoltaic 
(PV) power generating panels in 
2019. As the cost of solar continues 
to decline, Killam will scale solar to 
more properties. As not all properties 
are suitable for onsite solar or have 
limited roof area to meet energy 
needs, we are exploring purchasing 
offsite renewable electricity. Killam 
is also incorporating a solar PV 
heating system on its current 78-
unit Shorefront development in 
Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island.WATER CONSERVATION 
Killam has completed the installation 
of low-flow toilets in more than 
9,100 units in our portfolio. Since the 
program started in 2015, over 600 
million liters of water have been saved 
by Killam and our tenants. As well, 
newer developments such as Saginaw 
Park, which opened in 2018, are sub-
metering water usage.LED LIGHTING 
Killam invested $2.1 million in lighting 
retrofits in 2018, and by the end of 
Q1-2019 will have retrofitted 100% of 
its portfolio with LED lighting. With 
over 5 million kilowatt-hours being 
saved annually, buildings are not only 
consuming less electricity, Killam has 
seen improved lighting levels and 
reduced maintenance costs with the 
LED program.  
EFFICIENT HEATING
Killam has several programs 
underway to reduce heating 
costs and lower its impact on the 
environment. Large-scale boiler 
room overhauls using high-efficiency 
heating and pumping equipment are 
frequently being undertaken in the 
portfolio. Each year enough boiler 
upgrades are completed to save 
15,000 GJ of natural gas use annually. 8 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | ES&GDeveloping the Next Generation of 
Energy-Efficient Apartments
Our more than $200 million in new Killam developments have been designed and built using strategies aimed at 
improving performance across important metrics. These include: energy savings, water efficiency, the stewardship 
of resources and a sensitivity to their environmental impact. We focus our development activity in the urban core 
and in highly walkable suburban sub-markets.  
We use technology and renewable resources whenever feasible with the intent to create green and sustainable 
homes for our residents. From LED lighting and motion sensing technology to geothermal heating and in-suite 
green switches, energy conservation is an important component of our development designs.
LED LIGHTING
LOW-FLOW 
FAUCETS SUB-METERED
WATER
ENERGY EFFICIENT 
APPLIANCES
Saginaw Park, Cambridge, ONKILLAM APARTMENT REIT |ES&G  9Geothermal
Killam is committed to increasing its 
investment in geothermal heating and 
cooling. In London, Ontario, Killam’s 180 
Mill Street apartments has a geothermal 
heating and cooling system that takes 
water from an underground stream, 
which is then pumped through a heat 
exchanger to individual heat pumps 
in each apartment unit. Phase one of a 
new 840-unit development, Frontier, is 
under construction in Ottawa, and will 
also incorporate geothermal heating and 
cooling. Within the next six months, Killam 
will also be breaking ground on another 
new development, a 128-unit apartment 
building in Mississauga that will use 
geothermal energy.
Renovating To Maximize Efficiencies
Killam has an extensive suite renovation 
program that allows it to improve energy 
efficiency and sustainability throughout 
the apartment portfolio, while delivering 
upgraded amenities to its residents. With 
an apartment upgrade, we improve unit 
performance and comfort by installing the 
following: 
	Energy Star kitchen appliances 
	Energy-efficient lighting 
	Programmable thermostats 
	Low-VOC paint 
	Low-flow faucets, shower heads and toiletsElectric Vehicle Chargers and 
Sustainable Transportation
Killam has seven properties that have  
on-site electric vehicle (EV) charging 
stations for residents. All new 
developments being built by Killam 
will incorporate EV chargers. In 
addition to supporting electrification of 
transportation, Killam is developing in 
urbanized environments that support 
direct access to public transportation. 
An example of this is the new Frontier 
development in Ottawa, which is 
adjacent to the city’s newly expanded 
light-rail transit network. Sub-Metered Water
Killam introduced its first building with 
separately metered water with the opening 
of Saginaw Park in Cambridge, Ontario in the 
Spring of 2018.  By separately metering water, 
residents pay for their water usage directly. 
This reduces Killam’s exposure to water costs 
and promotes conservative water usage by 
residents. To date, water usage is estimated 
to be 20% lower at our sub-metered Saginaw 
Park property compared to our adjacent 
Saginaw Gardens property. Killam plans to 
incorporate separately metered water with 
the Frontier in Ottawa, and our planned Silver 
Spear development in Mississauga.
10 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | ES&GContributing to Our Communities
 
COMMUNITY OUTREACH INITIATIVES & ADDRESSING 
SOCIAL NEEDS
Giving back is an important part of being a responsible corporate citizen. 
A core value of Killam is Do the Right Thing, and part of that is investing 
in our communities through various programs and initiatives. Killam 
has a Community Involvement Committee that extensively monitors all 
aspects of the Trust’s community involvement and charitable efforts on 
an ongoing basis. 
Providing affordable units, along with donating units to hospitals, has 
always been important to Killam. Below are Killam’s key community 
initiatives in 2018:
	Partnered with non-profit housing agencies such as Housing First, 
Nova Scotia Health Authority-Mental Health Division, Shelter 
Nova Scotia, YWCA and Phoenix. These relationships, along with 
partnerships with multiple provincial government housing boards, 
provide more than 600 subsidized units to previously under-housed 
individuals.
	Donated nine fully furnished units to hospitals across our portfolio in 
an effort to provide comfortable accommodation to families as they 
support loved ones through treatment.
	Provided financial assistance to organizations that offer shelter and 
support to individuals and families.
	Donated $100,000 to the University of Calgary’s Libin Cardiovascular 
Institute. Members of Killam’s Board of Trustees personally pledge 
$100,000 annually to an organization of a Trustee’s choice. Since 
beginning this annual donation program in 2010, Killam’s Trustees 
have donated $900,000 to organizations across Canada. 
	Provided assistance to residents who had fallen on hard times and 
needed financial support through Killam’s Tenant Relief Program. 
Qualifying residents can receive up to six months of reduced rent.
	Supported many organizations across the communities in which we 
operate, including the organizations listed below:
Killam employees 
are active community 
members. Killam grants 
a full day of paid leave 
each year for employees 
to volunteer with a 
charity of their choice. 
Many employees take 
advantage of this 
day to give back to 
organizations in their 
communities.KILLAM APARTMENT REIT |ES&G  11Providing Outstanding Customer Service
Killam provides outstanding customer service and fosters a sense of community at its properties. We survey 
residents to measure our success in meeting expectations and to identify areas for improvement. In 2018, we 
received a satisfaction rating of 88%(1) compared to the national average of 75%(2).
Satisfaction with killam as Landlord
87 % 90 % 90 % 90 %2014 2015 2016 2017
National  
Average  
75%(2) 88 %2018
88 % 90 % 89 % 90 % 88 %2014 2015 2016 20172018would Recommend to Family & Friends
 National  
Average  
 59%(2)
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
86 % 86 % 87 % 86 % 86 %Satisfaction with resident manager
National  
Average
64%(2)satisfaction with condition of apartment
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
87 % 89 % 88 % 91 % 89 %
National  
Average
44%(2)
(1) Results from 2018 CRA Independent Resident Survey
(2) 2018 Avison Young National Multi-Residential Tenant SurveyCreating a sense of community is a priority at Killam. Below are examples of programs, events and amenities 
that contribute to resident engagement:  
	Holiday gatherings, community barbecues, meet and greets, pizza parties and movie nights.
	Investment in community gardens, playgrounds, fitness rooms, recreational facilities, as well as waterfront 
and pool upgrades at seasonal resorts.
	Killam’s online resident portal, along with a mobile app version, and corporate website, including the online 
live chat option, has expanded communication options for existing and prospective residents.12 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | ES&GThe Right People
A COLLABORATIVE CULTURE
Killam’s success is due to the hard work and dedication of our people. 
Our more than 600 employees exemplify Killam’s Core Values and are 
the key to resident satisfaction. In our 2018 employee survey, 94% of 
respondents said they are willing to give an extra effort to see Killam 
succeed. 
Killam supports its employees at work and in their communities in many 
ways:
	Killam invests in employee education and coaching programs and 
provides financial assistance for learning.
	Killam’s employee unit purchase plan rewards employees with a 50% 
investment match after two years of service.
	Scholarships are available to children and grandchildren of Killam 
employees who pursue post-secondary education.
	Quarterly newsletters, team summits and senior management 
property visits foster an engaged workforce.
	Killam’s Employee and Family Assistance Program provides 
counseling and support for employees and their family members 
experiencing depression, anxiety, stress, grief and other common 
issues.  
COMPENSATION AND PROMOTION
Killam is committed to delivering competitive compensation for its 
employees, along with considerable benefits, training, education 
opportunities and career advancement.
The majority of Killam employees are measured quarterly on targets 
that are directly linked to our corporate goals for the year. This increases 
both Killam’s ability to meet our targets as well as the commitment of our 
employees to our corporate success. 
Quarterly scorecard reports for property managers and site employees 
are part of our regular performance management feedback program. 
The program includes annual, quarterly and probationary review 
programs all offered through our user-friendly interactive employee 
portal. Performance management includes career development and 
long-term goal discussions. 
Senior management participated in a 360° review process during 2018, 
receiving one-on-one executive coaching. The senior management team 
as a whole was evaluated as leaders, and areas of strength and growth 
were identified, fostering the full potential of Killam’s management team.Employee Benefits
Flexible benefits plans
Employee & Family 
Assistance Program
Paid volunteer time
Paid time off  
(vacation & personal)
Paid sick leave 
Annual incentive plan
Employee Unit Purchase 
Plan
Professional association 
reimbursement 
Referral bonuses
Short-term and long-term 
disability coverage 
Summer hours 
Scholarships
Tuition reimbursement 
Discount at Killam 
apartments 
Killam Perks  
(discounts at partners) 
Parental  leave pay
I am willing to give extra effort to help Killam succeed
My supervisor treats me with respect
Safety is a top priority94%
91% 
92%2018 EMPLOYEE SURVEY RESULTSKILLAM APARTMENT REIT |ES&G  13DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
Killam is committed to providing a supportive and inclusive workplace for all employees. Employees 
are encouraged to develop their full potential and use their unique talents, maximizing the efficiency of 
our team. Killam recognizes the benefits which arise from employee diversity, including a strengthened 
corporate culture, improved employee retention, access to different perspectives and ideas and the 
benefit of all available talent.
Killam is an equal opportunity employer. All decisions regarding recruitment, hiring, promotion, 
compensation, employee development and all other terms and conditions of employment are made 
without regard to race, nationality or ethnic origin, colour, religion, age, sex, sexual orientation, gender 
orientation, marital status, civil status, physical or mental disability or any other protected ground, as set 
out in Killam’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and applicable human rights legislation.
Killam’s commitment to a diverse and inclusive workplace is apparent in the following initiatives, policies 
and practices:
	Killam has both employee and Board of Trustees diversity policies to promote inclusiveness, diversity and 
leadership opportunities. 
	Two of ten Board positions and five of nine senior management positions are occupied by women. The 
Board has a target of at least three women on the Board by 2020.
	Killam’s commitment to diversity is evident in our employee policies, handbooks, documents and employee 
portal. More importantly, respect and fair treatment are an essential part of our culture. 
	Respectful workplace training is provided to employees on a regular basis.
	Any discriminatory practices or behaviours in the workplace are not tolerated and are addressed 
immediately.
48%
W52%
MAll Employees
80%
M20%
WBoard of Trustees
45%
M55%
WExecutive
40%
M60%
WSenior Managers 
& ProfessionalsDiversity Metrics
48%
W14 KILLAM APARTMENT REIT | ES&GLeading with Strong Governance
BOARD OF TRUSTEES AND BOARD COMMITTEES
Killam believes that effective corporate governance is critical to our continued and long-term success and will 
help to maximize unitholder value. The Trustees strongly believe that their commitment to sound governance 
practices is in the best interest of the Trust and its unitholders 
and contributes to effective and efficient decision making.
The Board carries out its responsibilities with the support of 
several Board committees. The Governance, Nomination and 
Succession Committee (GN&S) is responsible for the oversight 
of Killam’s ESG mandate and initiatives. For more information 
on Killam’s Board Committees, visit killamreit.com/investor-
relations/corporate-governance.  
INDEPENDENCE
Killam’s Board of Trustees is currently comprised of ten 
Trustees, six of whom are considered to be independent.  
Killam believes that separating the position of Chair of the Board and the position of the CEO is key in effectively 
providing independent Board oversight and in holding management accountable to the Board for the Trust’s 
operations. Killam has an independent, non-executive Chair of the Board, and all Board committee members 
are independent. 
It is the Board’s policy for non-management Trustees to hold regularly scheduled meetings without the 
attendance of management of the Trust (in-camera meetings). Time is specifically reserved for in-camera 
meetings at the beginning and/or end of the Board, Audit, Compensation and GN&S Committee meetings.
CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT AND ETHICS
Killam strives to be a good corporate citizen and maintain a high standard of integrity in conducting business. 
Killam’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the Code) establishes a framework of guidelines and principles 
to oversee and foster ethical behaviour in all business activities.
The principles in the Code are intended to:
	Establish ethical and fair practice in all business relationships, dealings and activities.
	Ensure compliance with all laws, regulations and Killam policies.
	Facilitate a safe working environment with respect for people and a commitment to diversity, equal 
opportunity and freedom from exposure to improper conduct and discrimination.
	Maintain professional integrity in all business dealings.
	Protect Killam’s assets, ensuring only proper use for Killam’s benefit.
	Safeguard the use of confidential information and maintain proper reporting procedures.
The Code provides additional, practical insight into applying Killam’s Core Values, specifically Do the Right 
Thing, to Killam’s everyday operations.
RECOGNITION FOR GOOD GOVERNANCE
Killam was awarded the highest rating for Governance by Institutional 
Shareholder Services (ISS) in 2018. ISS’s Governance QualityScore 
methodology focuses on the qualitative aspects of governance, including 
global governance standards and alignment with ISS voting policy in each 
region.BOARD OF  
TRUSTEES
AUDIT
COMMITTEECOMPENSATION
COMMITTEEGOVERNANCE, 
NOMINATION & 
SUCCESSION  
COMMITTEE
KILLAM APARTMENT REIT |ES&G  15BEST PRACTICE COMPENSATION POLICIES
The Board of Trustees’ Compensation Committee is responsible for determining executive compensation 
packages for senior officers. In the last two years, Killam’s Compensation Committee and Board of Trustees 
approved changes to the compensation programs to increase alignment between executives and unitholders. 
Highlights of Killam’s executive compensation include:
	The majority of total direct compensation for executives is performance-based. 
	A portion of incentive awards are dependent upon unit performance and are measured against objective 
financial metrics that link directly to the creation of value for unitholders.
	Vesting timeframes for at-risk compensation are designed to expose a material portion of executive 
compensation to long-term unitholder value creation.
	An executive compensation clawback policy was introduced in 2018.
	All members of the senior management team are subject to unit ownership requirements.
	An advisory say-on-pay resolution was introduced at the 2018 Annual General Meeting and received 97.6% 
approval from unitholders.
WHISTLEBLOWER POLICY
Killam has a Whistleblower Policy to encourage individuals and businesses to report any harmful activity 
without fear of retribution. The Whistleblower Policy underscores Killam’s commitment to operating under the 
highest standards of accountability and transparency.
Through Killam’s corporate website, persons can complete a confidential form to report any harmful activity 
that they may have witnessed. Reports are sent directly to the Chair of the Audit Committee and all information 
submitted will remain confidential. 
The goal of the Whistleblower Policy is to:
	Encourage employees, advisors, residents, people and companies who do business with Killam to report 
possible violations of law, accounting irregularities and other suspected wrongdoing.
	Provide a confidential channel to report such activity.
	Discourage illegal activity and illegal business conduct.
	Protect Killam’s good name, business interests and its relationships with employees, unitholders, broker-
dealers, real estate professionals, suppliers, residents and the community at large.