PAGE 1
ENVIRONMENTAL 
SOCIAL & GOVERNANCE 
REPORT | 2021PAGE 2
TABLE OF  
CONTENTS
ABOUT THE REPORT 
Reporting Framework
Killam’s ESG report focuses on the 2021 reporting period. The report’s ESG disclosures were prepared in accordance with the Global  
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards (core), the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) standards, and the Task Force for  
Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TCFD) framework.
External Verification 
Killam’s greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and associated energy data has been externally verified to a limited level of assurance 
by Green Check (Risk Check Inc.) using International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14064-3:2019, the standard for GHG 
verification to a limited level of assurance.  Verification activities applied in a limited level of assurance verification are less extensive in 
nature, timing and extent than an audit. The review found no material discrepancy, error or omission that would conclude that Killam’s 
2021 GHG emissions inventory and associated energy data are not fairly stated and prepared in all material respects in accordance 
with the standards and principles of the GHG Protocol.
PAGE 3
Commitment to Social (continued) PAGE 24
   Employees PAGE 28
   Residents PAGE 32
   Community Impact PAGE 33
   Supply Chain Responsibility PAGE 33
Commitment to Governance PAGE 34
   Board Composition PAGE 34
   Independence PAGE 34
   Ethics PAGE 34
   Diversity & Inclusion PAGE 35
   Risk Management & Cyber Security PAGE 36
   Stakeholder Engagement PAGE 37
Killam’s ESG Performance Data PAGE 38
Global Reporting Initiative Content Index PAGE 46
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Index PAGE 52
Task Force for Climate-related Financial Disclosure  
(TCFD) Framework 
PAGE 54Letter from our President and CEO PAGE 4
About Killam PAGE 6
Killam’s ESG Strategy PAGE 7
Progress on ESG Targets PAGE 8
United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDG’s) PAGE 11
ESG Methodology PAGE 12
Materiality Assessment PAGE 13
Commitment to the Environment PAGE 14
   Energy Management PAGE 14
   Climate Change PAGE 20
   Water Management PAGE 22
   Recycling & Waste Management PAGE 22
   Greenhouse Gas Emissions PAGE 23
Commitment to Social PAGE 24
   Culture PAGE 24
   COVID-19 PAGE 26
   Safe Work Environment PAGE 26PAGE 4
PHILIP FRASER
President and CEOLETTER FROM OUR PRESIDENT AND CEO
Welcome to Killam Apartment REIT’s third annual Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Report. I am 
pleased to present our report, which details how we incorporate these principles into our operations and 
business strategy. Killam is committed to moving forward on its ESG journey, and as you’ll read in this report, 
our efforts are making a difference. 
We set long-term ESG objectives in early 2021 and we are making progress on all these targets.  Reducing 
greenhouse gas emissions is an important priority to us and our stakeholders. With this focus on reducing 
our carbon footprint, we invested $8.2 million in energy efficiency initiatives in 2021 and realized a  2.1% 
reduction in our GHG emissions. This capital investment included solar photovoltaic (PV) installations,  boiler 
and heat pump replacements, and electricity and water conservation projects. This investment also included 
geothermal heating and cooling installations at three of our development sites, placing Killam among the 
leaders of geothermal installations in Canada.
Our bi-annual diversity survey was conducted in 2021 in partnership with the Canadian Centre for Diversity 
and Inclusion. The survey results indicate notable increases in the representation of racialized and indigenous 
persons, persons with a disability and those who identify as LGBTQ2+. We continue to develop and foster a 
more diversified employee base across the company. We prioritized diversity and inclusion (D&I) training in 
2021 and the whole Killam team embraced the opportunity, completing over 500 D&I training sessions. We 
also encourage our employees to spend more time volunteering in their communities. To help with this we 
increased paid annual volunteer days from one to three days. 
Piloting building and healthy-living certifications was another focus last year. These certifications include 
BOMA Best, FitWel and the Certified Rental Building Program, and help ensure our buildings have industry 
leading operating and healthy living standards for our residents. We will build on the work done in 2021 and 
will continue to roll out certification programs across our portfolio.
Housing affordability remains a challenge in Canada, and is top of mind at Killam. With acquisitions in 
Calgary and Charlottetown this year, Killam increased its affordable housing suites by 14%, ending 2021 with 
approximately 850 subsidized affordable housing suites. This aligns with our longer-term target to increase 
Killam’s affordable units by 20% by 2025, from our base of 750 in 2020. In addition, we donate furnished 
suites to hospitals in our markets and contribute financially to a broad variety of community organizations. 
Our Board of Trustees provides sound governance and oversees Killam’s ESG and climate-related initiatives 
and performance against our long-term ESG targets. We are committed to participating in the annual GRESB 
survey and are proud to share that our 2021 results earned us a green, two-star designation, with a 40% 
increase in our GRESB score in the past two years. We are also proud to have earned an A-rating on the 
GRESB public disclosure survey, outperforming our GRESB and global comparison groups average ratings. KILLAM IS COMMITTED TO 
MOVING FORWARD ON 
ITS ESG JOURNEY, AND AS 
YOU’LL READ IN THIS REPORT, 
OUR FOCUS IS MAKING A 
DIFFERENCE.“
“PAGE 5
LETTER FROM OUR PRESIDENT AND CEO (CONTINUED)
Climate-change risks and opportunities are becoming more prevalent to us and our stakeholders, and we continue to expand our climate-related disclosure under the 
Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosure framework. 
With ESG principles and sustainability practices integrated into our long-term business strategy, we seek opportunities to transition to the low-carbon economy of our 
future. Embedding climate change considerations within our business practices ensures that our growth is adaptable, as well as resource and climate efficient.
Concluding, I want to thank our Killam team of employees who continuously work to provide positive value creation to our residents, our communities and our investors. 
Sincerely,
Philip Fraser, President and CEO
PAGE 6
ABOUT  
KILLAM 
Killam Apartment REIT (Killam, or the “Trust”), based in Halifax, Nova Scotia (NS), is one of Canada’s 
largest residential landlords, owning, operating, managing and developing a $4.5 billion portfolio 
of apartments, manufactured home communities (MHCs) and commercial properties across seven 
provinces. Killam was founded in 2000 to create value through the consolidation of apartments in 
Atlantic Canada and MHCs across Canada. Killam entered the Ontario (ON) apartment market in 2010, 
the Alberta (AB) apartment market in 2014, and the British Columbia (BC)  apartment market in 2020. 
Killam broke ground on its first development in 2010 and has completed thirteen projects to date, with 
a further six projects currently under construction. 
BRITISH COLUMBIA 3% ALBERTA 7% 
ONTARIO 23% NEWFOUNDLAND & LABRADOR 4% 
P.E.I. 6% 
NOVA SCOTIA 37% 
NEW BRUNSWICK 20% Net Operating Income  
Contribution by Market 
Killam’s strategy to drive value and profitability 
focuses on three key priorities: 
Increase earnings from 
the existing portfolio;
Expand the portfolio & diversify  
geographically through accretive  
acquisitions, targeting new properties; and
Develop high-quality properties  
in Killam’s core market.
[GRI 102-1, 102-2, 102-3, 102-4, 102-6, 102-7, 102-56]PAGE 7
KILLAM’S  
ESG STRATEGY
Build  
Community
Creative  
Solutions
Do the  
Right Thing
Curb  
Appeal
Strong Customer  
RelationshipsThe policy is approved by the Board of Trustees and monitored by the Governance and ESG Committee. The following outlines Killam’s 
commitment to ESG:
• Invest in technology and new initiatives to increase sustainability and lower its carbon footprint across the portfolio, with a focus on  
energy, water and waste consumption and management. 
• Support and invest in its employees through training and development.
• Enhance diversity and inclusion policies and practices to continue to foster a safe, inclusive, and equitable workplace. 
• Provide outstanding customer service and build an inclusive community at its properties.
• Support initiatives in the communities in which Killam operates, with an emphasis on affordable housing through community partnerships, subsidized 
rents and discounts.
• Establish and implement measurable governance policies and practices.
• Report annually on its ESG programs, highlighting new initiatives and Killam’s performance against targets.
• Review its annual ESG benchmark ratings(1) and target areas for improvement each year.
(1) Currently the benchmark rating focus is GRESBSUSTAINABILITY POLICYAt Killam, ESG is embedded throughout its corporate strategy; including the way it acquires, develops and operates its properties. Killam’s 
business decisions acknowledge the importance of green initiatives and recognize the long-term value creation for its stakeholders. Killam’s 
sustainability policy below formalizes this commitment.
Killam has established ambitious but realistic ESG targets to work towards in the medium term. These goals aim to mitigate Killam’s carbon 
footprint, maintain good corporate citizenship and create long-term value for stakeholders. Killam reviews these goals annually to confirm 
alignment with its materiality assessment (see page 13) and commits to annually report on its progress towards these targets (see pages 
8-10). 
ESG and climate-related issues continue to evolve quickly, and the need to continuously adapt is imperative. Killam is scoping out its long-
term carbon emission targets and developing its plan to move to net-zero carbon emissions. Further details will be disclosed as technology 
and innovation evolve.
Killam works proactively and diligently to  monitor and  REDUCE ITS ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT , to ensure  
effective and ethical governance and to  invest in ways that stimulate  SUSTAINABLE ECONOMIC GROWTH .
PAGE 8
PROGRESS ON  
ESG TARGETS
LONG-TERM TARGETS
• Reduce GHG emissions by 15%(1) by 2030.
• Produce a minimum of 10% of electricity(2) 
consumed by portfolio through renewable 
energy sources by 2025.
• Pursue green, building health and operating 
certifications across a minimum of 20% of 
Killam’s portfolio by 2025.  ESG
Environmental
 Social
 Governance
2021 PERFORMANCE
• Invested $8.2M in energy efficiency projects. 
• Reduced GHG emissions by 2.1% from 2020 levels.
• Completed nine solar photovoltaic installs, which 
will produce ~1,000 MWh of annual renewable 
energy for Killam.
• Achieved building certifications on eight properties 
(927 units), which is 5.1% of Killam’s total portfolio.2022 PLAN
• Commit to a minimum of $8M in energy-
efficiency projects.
• Complete 7 solar photovoltaic installs, 
which will produce ~500 MWh of annual 
renewable energy for Killam.
• Achieve building certifications for an 
additional 800-1,000 units.
2021  
HIGHLIGHTS
Killam piloted BOMA Best, FitWel and the 
Certified Rental Building program certifications 
to help ensure its properties have the best 
operating and healthy living standards for its 
residents.
Killam is recognized as one of Canada’s Greenest 
Employers (by Mediacorp Canada Inc.). This special 
designation recognizes the employers that lead 
the nation in creating a culture of environmental 
awareness in their organization.   
Completed an independent review 
of its 2021 energy consumption 
and greenhouse gas inventory. 
(1) Scope 1 and 2 emissions from 2020 levels.
(2) Operational controlled electricity. [TCFD 9, TCFD 11]PAGE 9
ESG
Environmental
 Social
 Governance
LONG-TERM TARGETS
• Increase employee volunteer hours by 25%(1) 
by 2025.
• Increase the number of affordable housing 
units by 20%(1) by 2025.
• Maintain resident satisfaction score above 
85% annually.   2021 PERFORMANCE
• Increased employee volunteer time by 20% 
from 2019(2).
• Increased affordable housing units by 108 units, 
which was a 14% increase from the 750 units at 
the end of 2020. 
• Achieved an 86% resident satisfaction score. 2022 PLAN
• Continue to promote the use of paid 
volunteer days and opportunities among 
all employees. 
• Continue to seek opportunities to 
include affordable housing units when 
Killam acquires and develops properties. 
• Address resident concerns to maintain 
and increase satisfaction. 
Supported affordable housing with 
more than 850 subsidized units 
through community partnerships.
Achieved an 
84% employee 
satisfaction score.
Partnered with the Canadian Centre for Diversity and 
Inclusion to complete its bi-annual diversity survey 
and offer Killam’s employees ongoing D&I training. PROGRESS ON  
ESG TARGETS
2021  
HIGHLIGHTS(1) From 2020 levels
(2) Due to COVID-19-related restrictions in 2020, Killam used 
the 2019 volunteer time as the baseline for this metric.PAGE 10
ESG
Environmental
 Social
 Governance
LONG-TERM TARGETS
• Continue to participate in the GRESB survey 
annually, targeting a minimum increase of 
5% each year to reach GRESB 4 star ranking 
by 2025, and continue to expand ESG 
disclosure.
• Increase the diversity of employees, including 
a 25% increased representation of employees 
who identify as racialized, as persons with 
disability, and as LGBTQ2+ by 2025.2021 PERFORMANCE
• Improved GRESB score by 6% in 2021, in addition 
to 40% since initial participation.
• Reported under TCFD framework and aligned with 
SASB and GRI standards. 
• Conducted its bi-annual diversity survey in 
partnership with the Canadian Centre for Diversity 
and Inclusion. The survey results indicate notable 
increases in the representation of racialized and 
indigenous persons, persons with a disability and 
those who identify as LGBTQ2+.2022 PLAN
• Work towards a higher GRESB score, 
with building certification work, 
increased data, and continued focus on 
reduction of Killam’s carbon footprint.
• Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) Committee 
to review and enhance Killam’s current 
practices and policies. 
• Further expand TCFD disclosure and 
monitor updates for best-in-class 
reporting disclosure. 
• Develop action plans from the 2021 
D&I survey to further its diversity goals 
throughout the company. 
Conducted an extensive 
stakeholder engagement process 
to review its ESG materiality. 
Aligned Killam’s strategy and targets with 
two additional UN Sustainable Development 
goals: Gender Equality and Climate Action. 
Completed its third GRESB submission, achieving a green star 
rating and a 40% increase from its initial score in 2019. Killam 
also earned a GRESB Public Disclosure survey rating of “A”.PROGRESS ON  
ESG TARGETS
2021  
HIGHLIGHTSPAGE 11
UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE  
DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDG S) 
In September 2015, Canada and all other 192 United Nations Member States adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development at the UN General Assembly.
This initiative is a global call to action to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity by 
2030. This 2030 Agenda is broken down into 17 global goals that countries, organizations, businesses and individuals alike are 
working towards. Killam has assessed these goals and aligned its corporate sustainability targets with the United Nations SDGs.
Killam believes it can make the most impact on the following goals and associated action items: Aligning Killam’s strategy 
with the United Nations 
Sustainable  
Development Goals
ENSURE RELIABLE, SUSTAINABLE & MODERN ENERGY FOR ALL. Killam’s goal is to produce a minimum of 10% of 
electricity(1) through renewable energy sources by 
2025. (2020-negligible). 
Invest in geothermal heating and cooling systems 
in new developments. 
PROMOTE INCLUSIVE & SUSTAINABLE ECONOMIC GROWTH, 
EMPLOYMENT & DECENT WORK FOR ALL.Increase the diversity of employees, including 
25% increased representation of employees who 
identify as racialized, as persons with a disability, 
and as LGBTQ2+ by 2025. 
MAKE CITIES INCLUSIVE, SAFE, RESILIENT & SUSTAINABLE. Pursue building certifications across a minimum of 
20% of Killam’s portfolio by 2025. 
Annually invest a minimum of $8M+ in  
energy-efficient projects. 
ENSURE SUSTAINABLE CONSUMPTION & PRODUCTION PATTERNS.Annually monitor, analyze and verify water 
and energy consumption, along with targeted 
reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. 
ACHIEVE GENDER EQUALITY & EMPOWER ALL WOMEN & GIRLS.Killam is an equal opportunity employer that 
stimulates a diverse workforce, providing 
leadership positions to female employees.
TAKE URGENT ACTION TO COMBAT CLIMATE CHANGE &  
ITS IMPACTKillam is committing to reduce its direct 
greenhouse gas emissions and promote a 
more sustainable way of living for its residents, 
minimizing indirect carbon impact. 
(1) Operational controlled electricity.PAGE 12
ESG
METHODOLOGY
Incorporating ESG initiatives into Killam’s overall business strategy helps drive innovation, augment its operating results, and maximize long-term value for all its 
stakeholders. 
To ensure Killam is focused on the most significant ESG issues for its business, a materiality assessment identifies and prioritizes the ESG topics that are most 
significant to Killam, its employees and Trustees, and the external stakeholders, which include Killam’s lenders, residents, investors and communities. The approach 
evaluates all material ESG topics and identifies opportunities for improvement in each area. This evaluation includes goal setting, resource allocation, performance 
management, and reporting to achieve improvements.
In late 2021, Killam conducted an extensive stakeholder engagement process to review its materiality matrix. It had been two years since its initial materiality 
assessment and Killam wanted to capture any emerging issues or changes in existing material topics that had occurred during this time. This process allowed 
engagement with and understanding of its stakeholders’ current sustainability priorities. This reassessment showed that many of Killam’s internal and external 
stakeholders are placing increasing importance on energy, water & waste management, greenhouse gas emissions, risk of climate change and diversity and 
inclusion.
Killam’s internal ESG Oversight Committee, consisting of the President and CEO and a select interdisciplinary group of senior management from across Killam, 
provides guidance and ensures the integration of ESG into its strategic objectives. This committee champions the ESG action items throughout the year and 
regularly reports progress against ESG targets to the Board’s Governance and ESG Committee.
[GRI 102-16, 102-19, 102-20, TCFD 4, TCFD 9, TCFD 11]PAGE 13
The following matrix shows the top right-hand quadrant of Killam’s Materiality Assessment, which includes the ESG factors that are most important to Killam. 
This report focuses on the topics that are of the highest importance and most relevant to internal and external stakeholders.  
Environment
   Energy, Water & Waste Management
   Greenhouse Gas Emissions
   Risk of Climate Change
   Sustainable Communities
   Sustainable Development Design & Product Quality
Social
   Health, Wellbeing & Safety
   Employee Engagement, Training & Development
   Resident Satisfaction
   Diversity & Inclusion
Governance
   Ethics
   Regulatory Compliance
   Data & Cyber Security
   Supply Chain Responsibility
   Insurance & Risk Management
   Board Composition & Governance1
2
3
4
5
1
2
3
4
1
2
3
4
5
6
HIGHHIGH 1
2
34
51
2
341
2
3
45 6
INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERSEXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERSMATERIALITY  
ASSESSMENT
[GRI 102-46, 102-47]PAGE 14
COMMITMENT TO THE
ENVIRONMENT  
At Killam, resources are used in a responsible manner to preserve and protect the environment. By reducing its use of natural resources and managing waste 
responsibly, Killam limits its environmental impact and lowers its operating costs. Working towards a better environment by taking sustainable actions is a responsibility 
Killam takes seriously.
Killam has a long history of investing in energy efficiencies. Starting in 2016, Killam commenced a five-year, $25 million energy-efficiency program focused on 
reducing its GHG emissions, gaining operating efficiencies and lowering operating costs. In its journey, Killam’s green project included the installation of PV solar 
panels, air-sealing apartment units, conversions from heating oil to cleaner natural gas, installation of low-flow toilets and LED lighting retrofits across the entire 
apartment portfolio. Killam is committed to continuing its annual investment in energy efficiencies with $8.2 million in 2021 and another $8 million planned for 2022.
ENERGY MANAGEMENT
Killam’s energy management strategy continues to evolve with new solutions and the advancement of green technology. Killam extends its energy investments to 
include a wide range of projects, testing different ways to increase its residents’ quality of living, reduce consumption and lower emissions. This energy management 
strategy is woven throughout Killam’s business strategy: [SASB IF-RE-130a.5, SASB IF-RE-410a.3]
Energy Management | Developments
More than  $350 million in new developments have been designed and built over the last 10 years using strategies aimed at improving performance across important 
metrics, including energy savings, water efficiency, the stewardship of resources and sensitivity to their environmental impact. Killam focuses its development activity 
in urban cores and in highly walkable suburban sub-markets. Technology and renewable resources are used whenever feasible with the intent to create green and 
sustainable homes for its residents. From LED lighting and motion-sensing technology, to geothermal heating and cooling, energy conservation and a low-carbon footprint 
are important components of Killam’s development design. 
Energy Management | Operations
This includes sub-metering electricity, water and heat, reinsulating exterior walls and attics to reduce heat loss, installing boiler economizers to recover wasted exhaust 
heat, and switching heating fuel from oil to natural gas and propane. Solar photovoltaic installations continued to be rolled out across the portfolio. Killam oversees its 
energy management by including real-time peak demand monitoring at select properties and regular data analysis on energy and water consumption. Killam is exploring 
opportunities to convert fossil fuel based heating systems to electricity in the future.
Energy Management | Acquisitions
Killam aims to acquire newer, more energy-efficient buildings where possible. During the acquisition due diligence process, Management analyzes and considers the 
potential acquisition’s features and ability to contribute to sustainability and the long-term value for its unitholders. Along with energy-efficient buildings, there is demand 
for upgraded units across the portfolio. Killam’s extensive suite renovation program and common area upgrades allow it to improve energy efficiency and sustainability 
throughout the apartment portfolio, while delivering upgraded amenities to its residents.  
[GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 for GRI 302]PAGE 15
Renewable Energy
 »Six properties with 
geothermal heating and 
cooling systems
 »1.1MW of installed solar 
photovoltaic systems 
across 11 properties
 »~$33 million invested in 
the past 6 years in energy 
efficiency projects
In the past several years, Killam retrofitted its portfolio with LED lighting, which results in more than 5,000 MWh of electricity being 
saved annually. Killam and its residents benefit from improved lighting levels, lower costs and reduced maintenance.Sustainable Transport
 »40 properties have a walk 
score over 70 (very walkable)
 »55 average bike score
 »48 average transit score
 »11 properties with EV Charging 
Stations (with 50 additional 
properties in 2022).
Building Certifications
 »Three healthy-living and green 
building certifications successfully 
piloted in 2021: BOMA Best, Certified 
Rental Building Program and FitWel 
certifications.
Natural Resources
 »70% of properties have  
low-flow water fixtures
 »70% of properties have waste 
reduction programs
 »51% of properties have a 
composting program
 »13,000 low-flow toilets saving 
1.0 billion litres of water to-date. Sustainable Communities
Killam works towards minimizing its impact on the environment by investing in sustainable solutions, renovations and technologies.
PAGE 16
COMMITMENT TO THE
ENVIRONMENT  
Geothermal Heating and Cooling
Killam is committed to installing geothermal heating and cooling systems with its new developments whenever feasible. To help reduce CO2 emissions and harness 
the power of the earth, these systems dissipate heat energy from the buildings in the hottest months while drawing heat energy from the ground in the winter months. 
It involves drilling a series of wells to capitalize on a relatively constant ground temperature that ranges from 7–11oC in its markets. These wells typically range from 
200–600 feet, with an investment of approximately $6,000 per suite and a payback period of 10-15 years, depending on the market and local utility rates. 
In 2021, Killam had geothermal systems at three existing buildings and three developments under construction. Once completed, Killam will have six buildings and 
approximately 1,000 units using geothermal heating and cooling sources.
THE KAY
LOCATION 3610 Dixie Rd, Mississauga, ON
SIZE 12-Storey high-rise concrete building
TOTAL SUITES 128
PROJECT BUDGET $57.0M ($445,000 per suite)
COMPLETED April 2022
GEOTHERMAL HEATING AND COOLING DETAILS
 »50 wells drilled to a depth of 600 feet or more to circulate a mixture of 75% water 
and 25% propylene glycol to and from the ground in a closed loop system. 
 »Optimal window glazing and insulation, saving energy consumption.
 »Water and hydro are separately metered to each unit, typically resulting in a 
reduction in water consumption of 25% or more. PAGE 17
Properties with Geothermal Heating and Cooling Sources
Killam takes pride in its dedication to install geothermal heating and cooling systems in its new developments and continues to invest in the latest technology.
FRONTIER
228-Unit Building  
100 Frontier Path, Ottawa, ON
CIVIC 66
169-Unit Building  
66 Weber St East, Kitchener, ON
To be completed in late 2022
180 MILL
127-Unit Building  
180 Mill Street, London, ON
88 SUNSET
162-Unit Building  
88 Rue Sunset, Moncton, NB
LATITUDE
209-Unit Building  
200 Frontier Path, Ottawa, ONPAGE 18
COMMITMENT TO THE
ENVIRONMENT  
Electric Vehicle Chargers and Sustainable Transportation
In 2021, Killam had 11 properties with 25 onsite electric vehicle (EV) charging stations. 
Killam plans to install more than 400 Level II EV stations across 50 properties in the next 
year and will continue to add EV charging stations at its properties in the coming years. As 
well, all new developments being built by Killam will incorporate EV chargers.
In addition to supporting the electrification of transportation, Killam is developing in 
urbanized environments that support direct access to public transportation. An example 
of this is the new Frontier and Latitude developments in Ottawa, which are adjacent to the 
city’s newly expanded light-rail transit network. 
LEVEL II EV CHARGER FULLY  
CHARGES AN AVERAGE EV IN  
8 HOURS
Supporting the Future of Electric Vehicles
IN 2021, KILLAM PARTNERED WITH ENEL X AND NATURAL RESOURCES CANADA 
TO PROVIDE 438 LEVEL II EV CHARGERS TO OVER 50 OF ITS PROPERTIES. 
Project finishing 
Winter 2023Up to 9.6kW 
of charging 
capabilityUniversally compatible 
SAE-J1772 charging 
connectorUtilizes an 
intuitive mobile 
app for drivers
PAGE 19
Quinpool Court | 2155 & 2225 Monastery Lane, Halifax, NS
94 kW array | 113,000 kWh annual production | 7.7% return 
on investment (ROI)Harley | 10 Harley Street, Charlottetown, PE
65 kW array | 79,000 kWh annual production | 9.8% ROIShorefront | 31 Michael Thomas Way, Stratford, PE
100 kW array | 111,000 kWh annual production | 6.4% ROI
Solar Power
Since the beginning of 2020, Killam has installed PV solar panels at 11 of its properties in Halifax, 
Waterloo and Charlottetown, which are expected to generate 1,200 MWh of renewable energy annually. 
Killam expects to invest $1.0 million in photovoltaic solar projects in 2022, which are estimated to 
produce another 550 MWh of electricity annually. As the cost of solar installs continue to decline, Killam 
expects to increase PV solar throughout its portfolio. Killam will also explore purchasing or developing 
off site renewable electricity if a property is not suitable for onsite solar or has limited roof areas to meet 
energy needs. 
Killam also has solar domestic hot water heating systems at five properties. These systems collectively 
save approximately 1,800 gigajoules (GJ) of natural gas annually. 2020
2021
2022*
2023*Expected Annual Energy Production (MWh) 
Through Photovoltaic Solar Power
225
1,200
1,800
2,800
*Forecasted. YEAR OF INSTALLPAGE 20
COMMITMENT TO THE
ENVIRONMENT  
[GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 for GRI 302, GRI 201-2, SASB IF-RE-450a.2, TCFD 1, TCFD 2, TCFD 3, TCFD 4, TCFD 5, TCFD 6, TCFD 7, TCFD 8, TCFD 9, TCFD 11]
‘CLIMATE CHANGE
Killam recognizes it faces a variety of different environmental, social and governance risks with respect to climate change. To improve the resiliency of its portfolio, 
Killam is updating and implementing sustainable policies, investing in technology, and switching to greener forms of energy, while relying on Task Force for Climate-
Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations to assess and disclose climate-related risks and opportunities.
Historically, Killam has had minimal review of its climate-related risk. Its climate risk work was limited to analysis completed through its annual insurance renewal, 
assessing each individual asset based on location. Killam also considers physical climate change risk at the time of acquisition. In 2021, Killam began to further integrate 
climate-related risk and opportunities into its overall risk management strategy, by preparing a property-level analysis of physical climate risk exposure. Killam plans to 
expand this analysis in 2022, to include transitional risks and opportunities and to prioritize risks accordingly. 
Governance
The Trust’s ESG oversight committee, including the President and CEO, members of senior management and other key staff members across the organization’s 
departments, meets bi-monthly to discuss environmental, social and governance-related topics, including climate-related resiliency, Killam’s environmental impact, 
emergency preparedness, GHG emission targets, monitoring and reduction, sustainability policies, sea-level rise, flood risk, heat stress and extreme weather events. 
Killam’s Vice President, Investor Relations and Sustainability, provides annual updates to the Board of Trustees on ESG targets, strategy and performance, including 
climate change. Currently, Killam’s ESG oversight committee and C-suite have oversight responsibility for the Trust’s climate change risks and business resiliency. In 
2022, Killam plans to transition this responsibility to both the Board of Trustees and Governance & ESG Committee to better align with TCFD recommendations.
Strategy  
In the long term, Killam plans to work towards operating its portfolio with net-zero carbon emissions to combat its impact on climate change, with the intention of 
maintaining transparent disclosure on the evolution of its long-term planning. Killam is in the process of developing a more robust long-term investment strategy for 
risk management planning with respect to flood risk, extreme weather and sea level rise, as well as other areas of environmental impact Killam can reduce or eliminate.PAGE 21
‘Risk Management
To date, Killam’s climate-related risk strategies have included:
 »Annual long-term investments in energy efficiency projects to lower its energy, water and greenhouse gas footprint. The annual investment continues to in crease, 
with more than $33 million invested in green projects in the past six years.  
 »Building new properties with advanced green technology available, including geothermal heating and cooling systems and energy efficient materials and appli -
ances.
 »Conducting energy audits annually to identify opportunities to improve energy consumption and operations. 
 »Piloting deep retrofit of older properties to fully understand the benefits, costs and sustainable methods to expand Killam’s retrofit program.
Future risk management strategies will include assessing a broadening scope of climate-related risks and opportunities in all aspects of Killam’s daily operations, 
acquisitions, and developments.
Metrics and Targets
Killam tracks key performance indicators related to transitional risk, such as Scope 1 and Scope 2, and select Scope 3 emissions. Reviewing and tracking physical risks 
at Killam’s properties, such as proximity to sea-level, flood plain zones, and wildfire zones, has commenced. 
Killam has already established reduction goals for both energy and GHG emissions and will work towards adjusting these targets and identifying goals for water and 
waste in the future.
Future Plans and Considerations
Throughout 2021, as a part of its physical climate risk analysis and TCFD guidance, 
Killam identified several climate change-related opportunities that it will work toward in 
the next two years, including:
 »Formalize Board of Trustees’ climate change oversight by implementing climate 
change risk and opportunities into areas that require board-level approval, 
including acquisitions, budgets, strategy, external reporting, compensation, risk 
management and developments. 
 »Incorporate additional environmental and climate-related risk analysis into 
acquisition due diligence process, including carbon intensity of the property, 
physical risk of climate change based on location and current condition of the 
property, and emergency preparedness.
 »Mitigate impacts of carbon pricing by continuing to reduce GHG emissions.
 »Incorporate additional climate-related analyses into the development planning 
process, including planned carbon intensity of the property during construction 
and upon completion, and environmental impact of construction and materials.
PAGE 22
WATER MANAGEMENT
Killam’s properties use more than two million cubic meters of water each year, 
and reducing water consumption across its portfolio is a priority. Aligning with 
the United Nations SDG 12: Responsible Consumption and Production, Killam 
implements water reduction solutions in both common areas and apartment 
units to help conservation efforts.
Killam’s water management initiatives focus on reducing both interior and 
exterior water consumption by installing more efficient appliances and water 
fixtures, and by implementing environmentally friendly landscaping practices. 
Killam has completed the installation of low-flow toilets in more than 13,000 
units in its portfolio. Since the program started in 2015, over 1 billion litres of 
water have been saved by Killam and its tenants. 
As well, developments built since 2018, such as Saginaw Park, Frontier, 
Shorefront and Latitude, have submetering water usage and all current 
developments in progress are continuing with this initiative. This practice not 
only mitigates Killam’s exposure to water costs, but historical usage data has 
proven that it encourages conservative water usage by residents.RECYCLING AND WASTE MANAGEMENT
Killam seeks to continuously improve and enhance sustainability at its buildings, 
focusing on reducing and diverting waste. To achieve this, Killam has been 
investigating the waste management and diversion strategy at each apartment 
building and is finding practical solutions for different properties that make the 
highest impact in reducing its environmental footprint. 
In 2021, Killam began working with Recycle Smart Solutions© at some of its 
properties to improve its waste diversion rate from landfills. This service notifies 
the buildings if there is a particular issue with contamination, allowing Killam to 
immediately address problems and find solutions.
Recycling, composting and waste management programs are available at the 
majority of Killam’s properties, with a concentrated effort by employees and 
residents to reduce waste in landfills. Killam is working towards developing a 
food waste reduction strategy, implementing waste exchange opportunities 
at its buildings, and offering more compost and recycling programs, as well 
as drop-off locations to recycle hazardous waste materials such as batteries, 
propane tanks, electronics, and paint cans.COMMITMENT TO THE
ENVIRONMENT  
Water Intensity (m3/suite)
[GRI 103-1, 103-2 and 103-2 for GRI 303, GRI 303-1, SASB IF-RE-140a.4, SASB IF-RE-410a.3]
93% of Killam’s property managers strongly support the visionary  
goal to work toward a circular economy and zero waste future.2020  | 119 m3/unit2021  | 115 m3/unit
2019  | 119 m3/unitPAGE 23
[GRI 103-1, 103-2 and 103-2 for GRI 302 and 305, TCFD 5]GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
Operating a multi-residential portfolio of approximately 
19,000 apartment units and 6,000 MHCs across Canada 
requires a significant amount of energy, and consequently 
generates GHG emissions. These emissions contribute to 
the global climate crisis faced today, as well as the shifts 
in the world’s climate and extreme weather conditions. 
The burning of fossil fuels like coal, oil, and natural gas for 
electricity, heat, and transportation is the primary source of 
human-generated emissions.
Killam has established GHG emissions reduction targets 
as part of its long-term sustainability strategy and strives 
to seek operational efficiencies to reduce resource 
consumption and dependence on fossil fuels, therefore 
reducing its carbon footprint. Killam is helping to combat 
global warming by changing the way it develops and 
operates its portfolio. 
Killam complies its GHG Inventory annually in accordance 
with The Greenhouse Gas Protocol. 
Killam engaged Green Check (Risk Check Inc.) to 
complete an independent verification review of its 2021 
GHG inventory, in accordance with ISO 14064 - Part 3,  
for its energy and greenhouse gas data. 
For the past four years, calculating the energy the portfolio 
consumes has been important to Killam. This data helps 
support the efficiency initiatives to better manage the 
properties, making them more resource-efficient. It aligns 
with the United Nations SDG 7: Affordable and Clean 
Energy. Killam’s GHG emission sources include: 
electricity, natural gas, propane, oil, petrol and 
steam. 
Note: Killam has committed to measuring scope 
1 and 2 GHG emissions, in compliance with ISO 
14064-1. Scope 1 includes all direct emissions 
generated and managed by Killam, including 
building fuel consumption and fleet-vehicles. Scope 
2 includes indirect emissions, purchased steam and 
electricity paid for by Killam.
Killam’s scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions exclude 
refrigerant leakage, upstream and downstream 
activities associated with its business operations,  
new developments and off-site waste management. 2021
2020
2019GHG Intensity (tCO2e/sf)
3.92
4.29
4.55
2021
2020
2019GHG Emissions (tCO2e) | Scope 1
28,020
29,194
30,542
2021
2020
2019GHG Emissions (tCO2e) | Scope 2
13,980
18,168
18,651
CO 2 
Define CO2 footprint
Increase efficiency of buildings
Increase clean energy supply
Invest in on-site energy generation
Consider off-site energy generation
Review CO2 offset programs
Killam’s Path to  
Decarbonization (Net Zero)PAGE 24
COMMITMENT  
TO SOCIAL 
CULTURE
The foundation of Killam’s culture is its five core values, which are an active part of everyday work and are embodied throughout the organization. 
Killam’s core values serve as important criteria in recruitment and selection, performance management, and employee recognition. Most importantly Killam’s 
core values guide decision-making and actions in daily work. In the recruitment and selection process, there are specific questions and discussions used to 
assess individual alignment with Killam’s values and culture. This alignment is incorporated in Killam’s formal performance management process, where managers 
specifically review individual demonstration of the values.
Cultural alignment continues with employee events, typically held several times a year, where content is driven by and supports the core values. Employees are also 
recognized for demonstrating exceptional cultural alignment through a formal recognition program. 
Killam’s annual employee survey is another tool to review employee feedback and monitor engagement.  
Here are some pictures of Killam’s employees and their comments about its culture(1) :[GRI 102-16]
(1) 2021 employee survey results 
KILLAM IS FORWARD THINKING 
AND AHEAD OF TRENDS. THEY 
RESPECT THEIR EMPLOYEES AND 
LOOK AFTER CUSTOMERS BETTER 
THAN THE COMPETITORS.“
“ Build  
 Community
 Do the  
 Right Thing  
 Curb  
 Appeal
 Strong Customer  
 Relationships
 Creative  
 Solutions
KILLAM’S CORE VALUESPAGE 25
IT IS THE BEST COMPANY THAT 
I HAVE EVER WORKED FOR. 
WE ARE TREATED FAIRLY AND 
RESPECTED. I ENJOY GOING TO 
WORK EVERY DAY.“
“
Killam’s exceptional culture has been recognized publicly. 
Killam was named one of Canada’s Most Admired 
Corporate Cultures, earning this distinction for a second 
three-year period, as well as being honoured with the 
Company Culture Award of Excellence by the Federation 
of Residential Housing Providers of Ontario. Other recent 
employer distinctions include: 
90%
of employees would 
recommend working at 
Killam to a friend.
91%
of employees believe 
Killam leaders care about 
their employees’ wellbeing.
90%
of employees feel their 
supervisor treats them 
fairly.
Killam is proud to be recognized as one of Canada’s greenest employers. This special designation recognizes  
the employers that lead the nation in creating a culture of environmental awareness in their organizations.PAGE 26
COMMITMENT  
TO SOCIAL 
COVID-19
Killam is firmly committed to the health and safety of its employees, 
residents, and communities as it continues to navigate COVID-19. 
Provincial and regional Public Health guidelines continue to be 
followed to ensure the safe operation of its properties. 
Support for Employees
 » COVID-19 section added to the employee portal to ensure employees are up to date with safety protocols and measures.
 » Increased compensation provided to public-facing employees, initially as a bonus then as permanent compensation. 
 » Operations adjusted to limit risk, additional PPE provided, and enhanced specific safety protocols applied for those unable to work remotely.
 » Enhanced leave policy introduced to ensure employees who are ill, required to self-isolate, or have other COVID-19-related challenges have access to paid leave.
 » Regular testing encouraged at the corporate office. 90%  of employees feel safety 
is a top priority at Killam. 
SAFE WORK ENVIRONMENT
A safe workplace, where everything is done to limit the risk of injury, violence, harassment 
or illness at work, is Killam’s first priority. Killam is committed to providing employees with 
the resources to ensure that their workplaces, including all Killam properties, are properly 
assessed for hazards and that all reasonable measures are taken to ensure the safety of 
individuals at its sites. 
Killam’s Occupational Heath & Safety (OH&S) program ensures OH&S policies and guidelines 
are in place and monitored to ensure a safe working environment. Joint OH&S committees 
and representatives are integral to Killam’s OH&S program and meet regularly in each of 
Killam’s operating provinces. Their function brings greater awareness to health and safety 
issues, provides a way for concerns to be shared and resolved, and increases communication 
and the overall education of Killam’s safety practices.
PAGE 27
Killam has always had workplace safety 
for its employees at top of mind.PAGE 28
EMPLOYEES
Killam’s employees are integral to its success and are supported, through a variety of programs, to do their best work.[GRI 102-8, GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 for GRI 401, 404 and 405]
Diversity and Inclusion
In 2020, Killam joined the Canadian Centre for Diversity & Inclusion (CCDI) as 
an employer partner to assist in its pursuit of a robust diversity and inclusion 
(D&I) program and to continue to grow this partnership. This partnership provides 
employees with access to expert advice, including a monthly newsletter, a 
knowledge repository, and monthly webinars. Employees across the organization 
are encouraged to participate in diversity training, resulting in the completion of 
585 unique learning sessions in 2021.
Killam’s recruitment process includes electronic postings on a variety of 
platforms, word-of-mouth referrals, attending community job fairs, and seeking 
creative solutions to recruit in rural or underrepresented communities. Killam’s 
Management engages with the community and not-for-profit organizations to 
both increase the candidate pool and to help seek a diverse and representative 
group. 
Workplace inclusion remains important throughout employment. Killam’s 
position on D&I is formalized through its D&I policy, and ongoing training ensures 
continuous learning and awareness. An open culture that encourages the sharing 
of information allows Killam to take full advantage of the collective knowledge 
of its team. 
In 2021, Killam’s employee Diversity and Inclusion team met regularly. This 
team participates in regular professional development, identifies opportunities 
for employee learning and growth, and reviews policy and procedure. Through 
inclusion, it aims to support Killam’s efforts to increase both the diversity of its 
workforce and the strength of its culture. COMMITMENT  
TO SOCIAL 
2021 Employee Demographics
Gender  
Self-Identification
FEMALE  
MALE  
NON-BINARY
Generational  
Makeup
SILENT GENERATION
BABY BOOMERS    
GENERATION X
GENERATION Y/MELENNIALS    
GENERATION Z
Employee  
Makeup
<1 YEAR
1<5 YEARS    
5<10 YEARS
10<15 YEARS   
15+ YEARS18%
27%42%
6% 7%49% 49%
2%
36%
2%32% 24%6%PAGE 29
Training and Development
Killam’s commitment to ongoing education, training, and development increases employee skills, the quality of work produced, and the personal connection to Killam. 
Employees are provided with safety, job-specific and other required training upon hire. Ongoing opportunities are provided in the areas of diversity, leadership, and 
enhanced safety and wellness training. Industry-specific training, such as the Certified Property Manager program and a tuition reimbursement program, are also 
available. Training is provided through a mix of external and internal resources. Employee summits, internal conferences and training sessions allow for sharing and 
storytelling. Many employees work alone or in very small groups daily, so these gatherings provide an important opportunity that may not otherwise be available due 
to the nature of their work. The need to be flexible with training and development has been highlighted in 2021. Killam has leveraged technology to bring people 
“together” despite not being able to meet in person during the pandemic. 
Killam’s success in providing career advancement opportunities is measured through internal promotion rates, recorded and reported internally on a monthly basis. 
In 2021, Killam saw more than 25 permanent employees progress into more senior positions. [GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 for GRI 404, GRI 404-2] 
Rewards and Recognition
Killam understands the strong connection between 
rewards, recognition, and retaining top talent and is 
focused on this in several ways. The Scorecard program 
is Killam’s annual incentive plan for all employees. 
Scorecard measures at all levels of the organization 
support Killam’s strategic goals. 
“Core Value Champions” are nominated for exemplifying 
Killam’s Core Values. Most recently, these stories have 
focused on kindness and caring during the pandemic. 
These stories are celebrated with all staff through Killam’s
2000+
mandatory training courses 
completed in 20212700+
hours of mandatory 
training completed in 202190%
completion of assigned 
training in 2021
employee newsletter. All nominees receive a signed card from Killam’s President and CEO, and winners receive a framed certificate and gift card. 
Ongoing education and training, as mentioned in the previous section, is yet another way Killam rewards and recognizes its employees. 
Informally, employees receive gift cards, personal correspondence, and acknowledgment from their supervisors, rewarding them for a job well done. Typically, annual 
employee events such as summer BBQs and holiday celebrations have shown appreciation for Killam’s teams. However, the global pandemic has highlighted the 
importance of flexibility, and Killam has adjusted its recognition plan to include rewarding front-line employees with increased pay during the pandemic and beyond.
In 2021, Killam retroactively introduced the Years-of-Service Award Program, recognizing and rewarding employees for each five years of service. This program 
recognizes loyal Killam employees and celebrates their milestones with a unit-based compensation award. The knowledge, experience, and commitment of long-
service employees is invaluable to the ongoing success of Killam and by increasing employee unit holdings, Killam’s financial success is shared with this group of 
employees. PAGE 30
Compensation and Performance Management
Killam is committed to delivering employee benefits and competitive compensation, including strategic incentive plans. Killam employees are measured quarterly on 
targets that are tied directly to corporate goals, ensuring compensation and results are clearly linked. This practice increases the commitment of Killam’s employees to 
its success in meeting its strategic targets. 
Quarterly scorecard reports for Property Managers and on-site employees are part of the regular performance management feedback program. The program includes 
probationary, quarterly and annual reviews, all offered through a user-friendly interactive employee portal and in-person meetings. Performance management includes 
career development and long-term goal discussions.COMMITMENT  
TO SOCIAL
“
“KILLAM HAS MADE IT FEEL LIKE HOME. I AM SUPPORTED BY MY COLLEAGUES AND ENCOURAGED BY MY MANAGER TO GROW AND DEVELOP 
MY SKILLS. IT IS A GREAT FEELING TO WORK FOR A COMPANY WHO SUPPORTS YOU, AND MAKES YOU FEEL LIKE YOU MATTER!  I WOULD 
HIGHLY RECOMMEND KILLAM AS A PLACE TO WORK, TO STRANGERS, FRIENDS AND FAMILY! 
Employee Benefits
The performance and compensation plans are reviewed annually to ensure they align with market influences and internal 
requirements. Components of Killam’s compensation and benefits package include:
 »Group Benefit Plans
 »Employee & Family Assistance Program
 »Paid Volunteer Time (3 days)
 »Paid Time Off (Vacation & Personal)
 »Paid Sick Leave (14 days)
 »Long-term Service Awards »Tuition Reimbursement
 »Discount on Killam Apartment Rents
 »Killam Perks (Discount at Partners)
 »Parental Leave Pay »Annual Incentive Plan
 »Employee Unit Purchase Plan
 »Paid Professional Association Fees
 »Referral Bonuses
 »Short-term Disability Coverage
 »Scholarships
PAGE 31
 »Tuition Reimbursement
 »Discount on Killam Apartment Rents
 »Killam Perks (Discount at Partners)
 »Parental Leave PayEmployee Engagement
Killam’s annual engagement survey is completed by an independent third party, and has provided insight into employee satisfaction and engagement levels for more 
than 10 years. This confidential survey has confirmed high levels of engagement across Killam teams, and provides regular insight into areas where further engagement 
can be fostered. Killam employees have shared consistently high feedback in the areas of leadership and planning, corporate culture, and work environment.
Feedback from the annual survey provides opportunities to focus on areas where employee programs can be introduced or enhanced, ensuring that our team is highly 
engaged, productive, and satisfied with their work.
88%
very satisfied with Killam as 
an employer(1)90%
of employees are proud to 
work for Killam(1)91%
of employees are willing 
to give extra effort to help 
Killam succeed(1)91%
employees like the  
work they do(1) 
(1) 2021 Employee Survey Results. PAGE 32
COMMITMENT  
TO SOCIAL 
RESIDENTS
Killam aims to provide outstanding customer service and foster a sense of community at its properties. Residents are surveyed annually to measure Killam’s success 
in meeting expectations and to identify areas for improvement. In 2021, Killam received a satisfaction rating of 87%. Killam’s satisfaction rating has been greater than 
86% for the nine years Killam has commissioned this survey. The independent agency that manages the survey advises Killam that ratings above 80% are considered 
very strong for the industry. 
Providing exceptional service to prospective tenants and residents is key to ensuring Killam is their sustainable choice of residence, today and tomorrow. In 2021, Killam 
continued to protect and support its residents during the pandemic, adhering to public health guidelines in each of its regions. Providing an online experience,  with a 
mix of virtual and in-person showings, allowed leasing to continue seamlessly. Killam’s resident portal and associated mobile app, corporate website, and online pre-
authorized payments (PAP) proved valuable in ensuring social distancing with residents while interacting with Killam. Mask requirements remained in common areas at 
its properties throughout 2021, with increased cleaning frequency of all high-touch areas.
Creating a sense of community is a priority at Killam. Its team provided creative solutions to ensure properties maintained a sense of community while adhering to 
public health guidelines. In-person events were replaced with contact-free engagements, such as door hangers, drive-by events, coloring contests, and gift basket 
draws.
Resident wellness and safety are at the forefront of Killam’s operations. This is demonstrated through first-aid, fire and life safety training for on-site staff. Comprehensive 
fire plans and monthly safety inspections further support this commitment.
2021 Resident Survey Results[GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 for GRI 416]
87%  
satisfied with  
Killam as a  
Landlord
89%  
satisfied with  
current apartment 
overall
92%  
are pleased with 
their on-site 
resident manager
83%  
of residents are 
pleased with the 
value of their money
90%  
are satisfied with the 
professionalism of Killam’s 
maintenance staff
PAGE 33
COMMUNITY IMPACT
As a leading organization with an exceptional culture, Killam has a responsibility to maximize the social impact alongside earnings 
by supporting the community. 
As part of Killam’s effort to build community, its experienced community investment committee oversees a budget of approximately 
$300,000 of community giving each year. The committee is focused on making the workplace a caring environment, and it 
encourages, celebrates and shares the individual community giving projects of Killam’s employees, in addition to corporate giving.
Killam’s giving strategy is centered on charities and causes that support family and shelter. It also has allocations for employee-led 
giving, Killam family scholarships, and tenant relief. Killam understands affordability concerns and is part of the solution by providing 
more than 850 subsidized affordable housing units. For many years, Killam has donated furnished suites to hospitals across its 
markets, with 12 units currently available to families in need. Contributions are made to a variety of community organizations, 
influenced by their alignment with its community investment strategy. Killam strongly believes in supporting charitable causes that 
its employees value.
Killam delivers affordable, safe, clean and high-quality housing to its residents across Canada. Along with partnering with 
community and government organizations to provide subsidized units to residents, Killam offers units in each of its markets that 
remain affordable. 35% of Killam’s portfolio rents for less than $1,000 per month. As well, Killam’s overall average rent is $1.44 per 
square foot across its markets, and its average rent in each market is well below the 30% threshold(1) of median household income 
for that specific market. 
Killam employees are active community members and are provided with paid volunteer time each year. Employees give back to 
their communities by volunteering with numerous organizations, such as Ronald McDonald House, the Canadian Mental Health 
Association, Brunswick Street Mission, minor hockey associations, Phoenix Youth Program and YWCA, to name a few.
(1) 30% of the median household income is the affordability threshold per the Canadian Mortgage and Housing Corporation.
SUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBILITY
As an owner, operator and developer of real estate, Killam has a responsibility to work closely with its suppliers to achieve 
its sustainability goals. Killam’s major suppliers and service providers include skilled tradespersons for maintenance and major 
renovations in its buildings, and suppliers for building materials, cleaning and office supplies. Killam fosters relationships with 
suppliers and service providers that commit to green environmental policies, as well as those that have a history of strong ethical 
and social practices.
Killam operates within responsible business conduct and has a mandatory checklist that is signed by suppliers prior to commencing 
work. This checklist includes proof of both workers compensation and liability insurance, disclosure of any health and safety 
infractions or fines, documentation of proper safety training, and evidence that the supplier will adhere to Killam’s sustainability 
policy. This ensures business is conducted ethically in accordance with Killam’s policies, and reduces third-party risk.[GRI 102-9]
$182K  
in-suite 
donations
$83K  
in cash 
donations
$173K  
in tenant relief  
programs
$110K  
in Trustee 
donationsPAGE 34
COMMITMENT TO  
GOVERNANCE  
BOARD COMPOSITION
Killam believes that effective corporate governance is critical to its continued and long-term success and helps maximize unitholder value. The Trustees strongly 
believe their commitment to sound governance practices is in the best interest of the Trust and its unitholders and contributes to effective and efficient decision-
making. Each Trustee of the Board brings their unique background, experience and skill set, including expertise in corporate governance. 
The Board carries out its responsibilities with the support of several Board committees. The Governance and ESG Committee is responsible for the oversight of 
Killam’s ESG mandate and initiatives. For more information on Killam’s Board Committees, visit:  killamreit.com/corporate-governance.
INDEPENDENCE
In 2021, Killam’s Board of Trustees was comprised of ten trustees, eight of whom are considered to be independent. Killam believes that separating the position 
of Chair of the Board and the position of the CEO is key to effectively providing independent oversight and holding senior management accountable to the Board 
for the Trust’s operations. Killam has an independent, non-executive Chair of the Board, and all Board committee members are independent. It is the Board’s policy 
for non-management Trustees to hold regularly scheduled meetings without the attendance of Management of the Trust (in-camera meetings). Time is specifically 
reserved for in-camera meetings at the beginning or end of the Board, Audit, Compensation and Governance & ESG Committee meetings. 
ETHICS
Killam is a good corporate citizen and maintains a high standard of integrity in conducting business. Killam’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the Code) 
establishes a framework of guidelines and principles to oversee and foster ethical behaviour in all business activities. The principles in the Code are intended to:[GRI 102-18]
[GRI 102-16, 102-17]
 » Establish ethical and fair practice in all business relationships, dealing and activities. 
 » Ensure compliance with all laws, regulations and Killam policies. 
 » Facilitate a safe working environment with respect for people and a commitment to diversity, equal opportunity and freedom from exposure to  
improper conduct and discrimination. 
 » Maintain professional integrity in all business dealings.
 » Protect Killam’s assets, ensuring only proper use for Killam’s benefit.
 » Safeguard the use of confidential information and maintain proper reporting procedures. 
 » Provide additional, practical insight into applying Killam’s Core Values, specifically Do the Right Thing, to Killam’s everyday operations. PAGE 35
Killam has a Whistleblower program to encourage individuals and businesses to report any harmful activity without fear of retribution. The Whistleblower program 
underscores Killam’s commitment to operating at the highest standards of accountability and transparency. Through Killam’s corporate website, individuals can 
complete a confidential form to report any harmful activity that they may have witnessed. The report itself and any subsequent dialogue are anonymous if the 
individual chooses. Reports are sent directly to the Chair of the Audit Committee and appropriate action is taken. No significant incidents were reported in 2021.
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
Killam is committed to providing a supportive and inclusive workplace for all employees. Employees are encouraged to develop their full potential and use their 
unique talents, maximizing the efficiency of the team. Killam recognizes the benefits which arise from employee diversity, including a strengthened corporate 
culture, improved employee retention, access to different perspectives and ideas and the benefit of all available talent. Killam is an equal opportunity employer. 
All decisions regarding recruitment, hiring, promotion, compensation, employee development and all other terms and conditions of employment are made without 
regard to race, nationality or ethnic origin, colour, religion, age, sex, sexual orientation, gender orientation, marital status, civil status, physical or mental disability or 
any other protected ground, as set out in Killam’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and applicable human rights legislation. Killam’s commitment to a diverse 
and inclusive workplace is apparent in the following initiatives, policies and practices: [GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 for GRI 405] 
 » Killam has both employee and Board of Trustees diversity policies to promote inclusiveness, diversity and leadership opportunities. 
 » Three of ten Board positions and six of eleven senior management positions are occupied by females.
 » Killam has committed to ensuring ethnic, racial or visible minority representation on its Board by 2025-26.
 » Killam’s commitment to diversity is evident in its employee policies, handbooks, documents and employee portal. More importantly, respect  
and fair treatment are an essential part of the culture. 
 » Respectful workplace training is provided to employees on a regular basis. 
 » Killam has partnered with the Canadian Centre for Diversity & Inclusion (CCDI) to assist in delivering a strong D&I program. 
 » Any discriminatory practices or behaviors in the workplace are not tolerated and are addressed immediately. 
PAGE 36
COMMITMENT TO  
GOVERNANCE  
RISK MANAGEMENT & CYBER SECURITY
Killam’s risk management program ensures Management assesses the Trust’s largest risks as well as stays informed on emerging issues. The safety of Killam’s 
residents and staff is a top priority. Response to the COVID-19 pandemic was a priority in 2021, and Killam closely followed provincial health safety guidelines during 
the year to keep employees, residents, partners and its communities safe.
On a quarterly basis, Killam’s Risk Management Committee, including senior representatives from all departments, addresses initiatives to improve the safety and 
security of Killam’s portfolio. Initiatives implemented in 2021 included enhanced risk tracking and reporting through a cloud-based risk management software 
solution, process improvements for managing and monitoring contractor insurance certificates and building safety inspections, and the expanded delivery of flood 
loss kits.  The flood loss kits are an in-house initiative rolled out in 2020 and include supplies to reduce the damage from water claims. These kits have proven 
incredibly effective at reducing damage following a water event and are being distributed to more properties across the portfolio every year. In addition, weekly and 
monthly property inspections by Killam’s property management team identify and address risk mitigation. 
Cyber security is a risk facing all organizations and one Killam takes seriously. The protection of Killam’s data is the foundation of its cyber security program 
and ensures that all resident and proprietary data remain safe and secure. Killam works to reduce its cyber threat exposure and continues to enhance its cyber 
capabilities. In the past three years, Killam has migrated all data to cloud-based solutions with high-quality partners, invested in advanced cyber risk detection 
systems, increased its firewalls to include building systems and rolled out two-factor authentication across the organization. Looking forward, Killam is investing in 
vulnerability assessment and penetration testing in 2022.
Educating employees in cyber security is a key priority 
that, when coupled with robust cyber security systems, 
provides maximum protection. As well, Killam has 
deployed software that simulates phishing emails. 
Mandatory training is required if employees fail the 
random simulations. At Killam, advanced email security 
servers lever artificial intelligence and machine learning 
algorithms as a front-line defense for email security. 
Killam continues to develop cyber defense through 
ongoing investment in cyber technologies and driving 
the education and awareness of employees.PAGE 37
Residents
Killam uses a third-party supplier to survey its residents 
annually and uses this feedback to action and focus on areas of importance. 
Employees
Killam uses a third-party supplier to survey its 
employees annually for feedback on a variety of topics, including compensations and benefits, career opportunities and advancement, diversity and inclusion, as well as safety and comfort in their workplace. This feedback is used to find areas of opportunity to drive employee programming.
Investors
Killam regularly meets with investors at conferences, private meetings and on property tours to discuss a variety of topics, including operations, strategy, corporate governance and sustainability. 
Communities
Killam is an active participant in the communities in which it operates and regularly engages in dialogue with local groups on community activities. Killam also receives feedback on its development projects. 
Further Information
For further information about Killam’s 
sustainability program and performance, please 
refer to Killam’s website at killamreit.com/esg. 
For governance-related disclosures, please refer 
to Killam’s website at killamreit.com/corporate-
governance, and Killam's Management 
Information Circular and Annual Information 
Form is available on sedar.com. 
IF YOU HAVE QUESTIONS  
ABOUT THIS REPORT, PLEASE EMAIL:
Nancy Alexander at nalexander@killamreit.com.STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Killam is committed to engaging with all its stakeholders on ESG and climate-related issues. Killam engages with its stakeholders in the following ways:[GRI 102-40, 102-42, 102-43]PAGE 38
Apartments
Number of apartment properties 221 206 199 IF-RE-000.A
Number of apartment units 18,685 17,048 16,325 IF-RE-000.A
Leasable floor area (SF) 18,937,922 17,595,296 16,995,617 IF-RE-000.B
Number of indirectly managed assets - 1 - IF-RE-000.C
Occupancy rate 96.6% 96.5% 97.0% IF-RE-000.D
Manufactured Home Communities
Number of MHC properties 39 39 38 IF-RE-000.A
Number of MHC sites 5,875 5,875 5,786 IF-RE-000.A
Acres of land 1,707 1,707 1,643 IF-RE-000.B
Number of indirectly managed assets - - - IF-RE-000.C
Occupancy rate 98.3% 97.8% 97.8% IF-RE-000.D
Commercial
Number of commercial properties 8 8 7 IF-RE-000.A
Leasable floor area (SF) 941,372 749,661 771,715 IF-RE-000.B
Number of indirectly managed assets - 1 2 IF-RE-000.C
Occupancy rate 90.6% 91.0% 89.6% IF-RE-000.DPORTFOLIO 2021 2020 2019 IndicatorKILLAM’S ESG  
PERFORMANCE DATA
For the year ended December 31, PAGE 39
2021 2020 2019 Indicator
Energy
Energy consumption data coverage as a percentage of total floor 
area, by property subsector100% 100% 100% IF-RE-130a.1
Consumption from non-renewable resources (MWh)
   Energy consumption 185,125 188,818 174,316 IF-RE-130a.2 and GRI 302-1
   Natural gas, oil, propane, petrol and steam consumption 145,824 156,555 162,761 IF-RE-130a.2 and GRI 302-1
Total 330,949 345,373 337,077 IF-RE-130a.2 and GRI 302-1
Total energy generated from renewable consumption (MWh) 1,330 7 - IF-RE-130a.2
Percentage grid electricity 99.947% 99.998% 100.0% IF-RE-130a.2
Percentage renewable 0.403% 0.002% -% IF-RE-130a.2
Like-for-like percentage change in energy consumption (5.6)% (1.0)% 2.4% IF-RE-130a.3
Percentage of tenants that are separately metered or  
submetered for grid electricity consumption86.4% 85.9% 85.3% IF-RE-410a.2
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions (tCO2e) 28,020 29,194 30,542 GRI-305-1 and TCFD 10
Gross direct (Scope 2) GHG emissions (tCO2e) 13,980 18,168 18,651 GRI-305-2 and TCFD 10
Gross direct (Scope 3) GHG emissions (tCO2e) 52,709 49,370 48,135 TCFD 10
GHG intensity ratio (tCO2e/sf) 3.92 4.29 4.55 GRI-302-3 and 305-4
Water
Water withdrawal data coverage as a percentage of total floor 
area95.5% 95.2% 94.9% IF-RE-140a.1
Water withdrawal data coverage as a percentage of floor area in 
regions with High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress100% 100% 100% IF-RE-140a.1
Total water withdrawn (m3) 2,139,573 2,031,768 1,942,232 GRI 303-5 and IF-RE-140a.2
Percentage of total water withdrawn in regions with High or  
Extremely High Baseline Water Stress13.1% 10.4% 7.8% IF-RE-140a.2
Like-for-like percentage change in water withdrawn for portfolio 
area with data coverage0.6% 3.5% -1.3% IF-RE-140a.3
Percentage of tenants that are separately metered or submetered 
for water withdrawal2.3% 2.3% 2.5% IF-RE-410a.2ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCEPAGE 40
KILLAM’S ESG  
PERFORMANCE DATA
For the year ended December 31, 
Gender Representation
Board of Directors GRI 102-8 and 405-1
   Female 30% 30% 20%
   Male 70% 70% 80%
Senior Management(1)
   Female 55% 55% 55%
   Male 45% 45% 45%
Overall Employees(2)
   Female 50% 48% 49%
   Male 48% 51% 51%
   Non-binary(3)2% 1% -1%
Permanent Employees
   Female 330 (50%) 292 (48%) 306 (49%)
   Male 313 (48%) 313 (51%) 317 (51%)
   Non-binary 13 (2%) 6 (1%) -
Temporary Employees
   Female 10 (40%) 24 (56%) 11 (28%)
   Male 15 (60%) 19 (44%) 28 (72%)
   Non-binary - (0%) - -
Full-time Employees
   Female 270 (50%) 228 (48%) 244 (49%)
   Male 261 (49%) 239 (51%) 251 (51%)
   Non-binary 8 (1%) 6 (1%) -
Part-time Employees
   Female 71 (50%) 88 (49%) 73 (44%)
   Male 66 (46%) 93 (51%) 94 (56%)
   Non-binary 5 (4%) - -SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 2021 2020 2019 IndicatorPAGE 41
2021 2020 2019 Indicator
Diversity Representation(4)
Self-identified BIPOC 16% 11% 11% GRI 405-1
Persons with a disability 9% 6% 6%
LGBTQ2+ 9% 6% 6%
Age Representation
Senior Management GRI 405-1
   Under 30 years old -% -% -%
   30-50 years old 45% 50% 45%
   Over 50 55% 50% 55%
Overall Employees(2)
   Under 30 years old 13% 13% 10%
   30-50 years old 30% 36% 38%
   Over 50 57% 51% 52%SOCIAL PERFORMANCE
(1) Includes Killam’s C-suite, Executive Vice President, Senior Vice Presidents’ and Vice Presidents’.
(2) Total employee count as at December 31 (2021 - 681; 2020 - 654; 2019 - 662).
(3) Non-binary includes employees who do not identify as male or female. 
(4) Killam completes an employee diversity survey bi-annually, which was last completed in 2021.PAGE 42
Employee Hires
Total Employee Hires GRI 401-1
   As a percentage of total employees 26% 19% 24%
   Number of people 177 121 161
Employee hires by age group
   Under 30 years old 30 (17%) 33 (25%) 37 (19%)
   30-50 years old 69 (39%) 53 (40%) 78 (40%)
   Over 50 78 (44%) 46 (35%) 80 (41%)
Employee hires by gender
   Female 87 (49%) 64 (48%) 92 (47%)
   Male 88 (50%) 67 (51%) 96 (49%)
   Non-binary(1)2 (1%) 1 (1%) 7 (4%)
Employee Turnover
Total Employee Turnover GRI 401-1
   As a percentage of total employees 30% 22% 23%
   Number of people 201 145 154
Employee turnover by age group
   Under 30 years old 28 (14%) 27 (19%) 31 (20%)
   30-50 years old 89 (44%) 59 (41%) 63 (41%)
   Over 50 84 (42%) 59 (40%) 60 (39%)
Employee turnover by gender
   Female 97 (48%) 73 (50%) 78 (51%)
   Male 101 (50%) 71 (49%) 75 (49%)
   Non-binary 3 (2%) 1 (1%) 1 (1%)SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 2021 2020 2019 IndicatorKILLAM’S ESG  
PERFORMANCE DATA
For the year ended December 31, PAGE 43
2021 2020 2019 Indicator
Gender Pay Ratio (Base Salary Female/Male) (%)
All Employees (%) 92%
See note 4GRI 405-1
Administrative Employees (%) 110%
Leasing Employees (%) 97%
Maintenance Employees (%) 98%
Manager and Senior Manager Employees (%) 89%
Executive Employees (%)(3)70%
Professional Employees (%) 80%
Property-level Employees (%) 102%SOCIAL PERFORMANCE
(1) Non-binary includes employees who do not identify as male or female. 
(2) Average training hours are calculated using the total employee count. 
(3) Includes Killam’s C-suite, Executive Vice President, Senior Vice  
Presidents’ and Vice Presidents’. (4) Killam commenced disclosing Gender Pay Ratio in 2021. No disclosure 
available for 2019 and 2020. Employee Training
Average hours of training by gender(2)GRI 404-1
   Female 5 4 5
   Male 5 4 6
   Non-binary 5 6 18
Average hours of training by employee category
   Senior Management(3)6 8 1
   Resident Managers 5 4 6
   Maintenance Staff 3 5 9
   Other 4 3 3
Average hours of training per employee 5 4 5
Performance Reviews
Employee’s receiving regular performance reviews GRI 404-3
   Female Employees 90% 90% 95%
   Male Employees 91% 90% 96%
   Non-binary Employees 100% 100% 100%
   Senior Management 82% 11% 100%
   Resident Managers 96% 94% 97%
   Maintenance staff 92% 88% 100%
   All Other Employees 90% 85% 91%
Overall Employees 96% 88% 95%PAGE 44
2021 2020 2019 Indicator
Resident Health, Safety and Satisfaction
Resident satisfaction score (%) 87% 87% 88%
Portfolio assets for which health and safety impacts are  
assessed for improvement100% 100% 100% GRI 416-1
Employees by Region(1)
Full Time Employees GRI 102-8
   Halifax 206 209 224
   Moncton 58 49 47
   Fredericton 43 34 42
   Saint John 33 34 35
   Ottawa 22 25 26
   Southwest Ontario 71 52 54
   Prince Edward Island 28 26 25
   Newfoundland 25 22 25
   Alberta 24 22 17
   BC 5 2 -
Part Time/Temporary Employees
   Halifax 54 62 68
   Moncton 32 33 27
   Fredericton 10 16 14
   Saint John 7 7 7
   Ottawa 5 6 3
   Southwest Ontario 15 14 13
   Prince Edward Island 32 27 22
   Newfoundland 6 10 12
   Alberta 3 2 1
   BC 2 2 -
Total 681 654 662SOCIAL PERFORMANCEKILLAM’S ESG  
PERFORMANCE DATA
For the year ended December 31, PAGE 45
Board Governance
Board oversight on ESG Strategy Yes Yes Yes GRI 102-18
Executive level responsibility on ESG strategy and performance
   President and Chief Executive Officer Yes Yes Yes GRI 102-20
   Chief Financial Officer Yes Yes Yes GRI 102-20
Reporting level of Executives for ESG strategy and performance Board of Trustees Board of Trustees Board of Trustees GRI 102-20
Board Composition
Independent Non-executive Trustees 100% 90% 80% GRI 102-22
Non-Independent Non-executive Trustees 0% 10% 20% GRI 102-22
Self-identified female/male 30% / 70% 30% / 70% 20% / 80% GRI 102-22GOVERNANCE PERFROMANCE 2021 2020 2019 Indicator
(1) Total employee count as at December 31 (2021 - 681; 2020 - 654; 2019 - 662).PAGE 46
Indicator Description Explanation/Section
Organizational Profile
102-1 The name of the organization Killam Apartment REIT (Killam)
102-2 Activities, brands, products and servicesKillam is a growth-oriented Canadian real estate investment trust owning, operating 
and developing apartments and manufactured home communities. Killam owns a 
$4.5 billion real estate portfolio, located in Atlantic Canada, Ontario, Alberta and 
British Columbia. 
102-3 Location of headquartersKillam’s corporate head office is located in Halifax, Nova Scotia, with property  
management offices in all our major regions.
102-4 Location of operationsKillam’s operations are within Canada, for details on Killam’s specific operating 
regions see About Killam and Killam’s Strategy pg. 6-7.
102-5 Ownership and legal formKillam is an open-ended real estate investment trust (“REIT”) formed under the laws 
of the Province of Ontario pursuant to an amended and restated declaration of trust 
dated November 27, 2015 (the “Declaration of Trust”). The Declaration of Trust is 
available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com.
102-6 Markets served About Killam and Killam’s Strategy pg. 6-7.
102-7 Scale of the organizationAs of December 31, 2021, Killam had approximately $4.5 billion in portfolio assets 
and approximately 700 employees across seven provinces within Canada.  
About Killam and Killam’s Strategy, pg. 6-7 and Employees, pg. 28.
102-8 Information of employees and other workers Employees, pg. 28; ESG Data Table pg. 40-45.
102-9 Supply chain Supply Chain Responsibility, pg. 33.
102-10Significant changes to the organization and its 
supply chainKillam did not undergo any significant changes to the organization or its supply 
chain in 2021.
102-11 Precautionary principle or approachKillam does not currently use the Precautionary Principal to protect against 
environmental degradation. The SASB and TCFD indexes included references 
further discussions on Killam’s climate change risk management practices.
102-12 External initiatives United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (“SDGs”) pg. 11.GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE  
CONTENT INDEXPAGE 47
Indicator Description Explanation/Section
Organizational Profile
102-13 Membership of associationsBuilding Owners and Managers Association (BOMA)
Calgary Residential Rental Association (CRRA)
Canadian Camping and RV Council (CCRVC)
Canadian Federation Apartment Association (CFAA)
Eastern Ontario Landlord Organization (EOLO)
Federation of Rental Housing Providers in Ontario (FRPO)
Greater Toronto Apartment Association (GTAA)
International Council of Shopping Centres (ICSC)
Investment Property Owners Association of Nova Scotia (IPOANS)
Landlord BC
London Property Management Association (LPMA)
Manufactured Home Association of Atlantic Canada (MHAAC)
New Brunswick Campground Association (NBCOA)
New Brunswick Apartment Owners Association (NBAOA)
Ontario Private Campground Association (OPCA)
Ontario Recreational Vehicle Dealers Association (ORVDA)
Real Property Association of Canada (REALPAC)
Residential Rental Apartment Prince Edward Island (RRAP)
Waterloo Region Home Builders Association (WRHBA)
Strategy
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Letter from the President & CEO, pg. 4.
Ethics and Integrity
102-16Values, principals, standards, and norms of  
behaviourESG Strategy, pg. 7 & ESG Methodology, pg. 12
Social - Culture, pg. 24
Ethics, pg. 34
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Ethics, pg. 34GRIPAGE 48
Indicator Description Explanation/Section
Governance
102-18 Governance structureGovernance, pg. 34. Please also refer to Killam’s 2022 Management Information 
Circular, Governance Practices pg. 51.
102-19 Delegating authorityESG Methodology, pg. 12, Social, pg. 24, Ethics, pg. 34. Please also refer to Killam’s 
2022 Management Information Circular for additional governance information.
102-20Executive-level responsibility for economic,  
environment and social topicsESG Methodology, pg. 12.
Killam’s President & Chief Executive Officer, Executive Vice President and Chief 
Financial Officer all have individual performance targets linked to compensation to 
enhance Killam’s ESG Program. Killam has a Vice President of Investor Relations 
and Sustainability who champions Killam’s ESG initiatives along with the executive 
team members. In 2021, Killam executives only partially met their target to expand 
Killam’s ESG program, with a 4 point or 6% improvement in Killam’s 2021 GRESB 
submission over its 2020 submission. The President & CEO reports into the Board 
of Trustee’s Governance and ESG Committee who oversee Killam’s ESG practices 
and initiatives. 
102-22Composition of the highest governance body  
and its committeesESG Data table, pg. 40-45. Please also refer to Killam’s 2022 Management Informa -
tion Circular, Governance Practices pg. 51 and Committees, pg. 64. 
Stakeholder Engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Engagement, pg. 37
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Non-unionized; 0%
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement, pg. 37
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement, pg. 37
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Nothing material to note.GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE  
CONTENT INDEXPAGE 49
Indicator Description Explanation/Section
Reporting Practice
102-45Entities included in the consolidated financial 
statementsKillam Apartment REIT and its principal subsidiaries as listed in Killam’s Annual 
Information Form on sedar.com
102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Materiality Assessment, pg. 13
102-47 List of material topicsKillam’s material topics addressed in this report include Board Composition and 
Governance, Regulatory Compliance, Data and Cyber Security, Ethics, Health 
Wellbeing and Safety, Employee Engagement, Training and Development, 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Resident Satisfaction, Sustainable Development 
Design and Product Quality, Energy, Water and Waste Management, Insurance and 
Risk Management, Diversity and Inclusion, Risk of Climate Change, Sustainable 
Communities and Supply Chain Responsibility. Please also refer to Materiality 
Assessment, pg. 13
102-48 Restatements of information No material restatements.
102-49 Changes in reporting Not material changes.
102-50 Reporting periodAll information in the report covers the year ended December 31, 2021, unless 
otherwise stated. 
102-51 Date of most recent reportKillam’s 2021 ESG Report provides comparable information to 2020 and 2019, and 
was prepared in accordance with GRI Core Standards, SASB and TCFD. 
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the reportNancy Alexander, Vice President of Investor Relations & Sustainability.
nalexander@killamreit.com
102-54Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 
StandardsThis report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core Option
102-55 GRI content index GRI Content Index, pg. 46-51.
102-56 External assuranceKillam’s management was responsible for preparing Killam’s 2021 ESG Report, 
and for maintaining effective internal control over the data and information 
disclosed. Various internal reviews were undertaken to ensure the accuracy and 
completeness of the information and data disclosed in this report. Killam’s 2021 
GHG Inventory was independently verified by Green Check (Risk Check Inc.)GRIPAGE 50
Indicator Description Explanation/Section
Management Approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 2021 Annual Report, Strategy pg. 4
103-2 The management approach and its components 2021 Annual Report, Strategy pg.  4
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2021 Annual Report, Performance Summary & Strategy Targets, pg. 12-13
Economic Performance
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed2021 Annual Report - Financial and Operational Highlights, pg. 31 and Distribution 
Reinvestment Plan and Net Distributions Paid, pg. 69
201-2Financial Implications and other risks and 
opportunities due to climate changeClimate Change, pg. 20
Energy
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Commitment to the Environment, pg. 14 and Greenhouse Gas Emissions, pg. 23
103-2 The management approach and its components Commitment to the Environment, pg. 14 and Greenhouse Gas Emissions, pg. 23
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Commitment to the Environment, pg. 14 and Greenhouse Gas Emissions, pg. 23
302-1 Energy Consumption within the organization ESG Data table, pg. 39
302-3 Energy Intensity ESG Data table, pg. 39
Water and effluents
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Water Management, pg. 22
103-2 The management approach and its components Water Management, pg. 22
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Water Management, pg. 22
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Water Management, pg. 22
303-5 Water Consumption ESG Data table, pg. 39GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE  
CONTENT INDEXPAGE 51
Employment
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Employees, pg. 28
103-2 The management approach and its components Employees, pg. 28
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Employees, pg. 28
401-1 New employee hire and employee turnover ESG Data table, pg. 42
Training and Education
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Training and Development, pg. 29
103-2 The management approach and its components Training and Development, pg. 29
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Training and Development, pg. 29
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee ESG Data table, pg. 43
404-2Programs for upgrading employee skills and 
transition assistance programsTraining and Development, pg. 29
404-3Percentage of employees receiving regular 
performance and career development reviewsESG Data table, pg. 43
Diversity and Equal Opportunity
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Diversity and Inclusion, pg. 28 and 35
103-2 The management approach and its components Diversity and Inclusion, pg. 28 and 35
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Diversity and Inclusion, pg. 28 and 35
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees ESG Data table, pg. 40-41
Resident Health and Safety
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Residents, pg. 32
103-2 The management approach and its components Residents, pg. 32
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Residents, pg. 32
416-1Assessment of health and safety impacts of 
product and service categoriesESG Data table, pg. 44GRI
Emissions
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Greenhouse Gas Emissions, pg. 23, Commitment to Environment Overview, pg. 14.
103-2 The management approach and its components Greenhouse Gas Emissions, pg. 23, Commitment to Environment Overview, pg. 14.
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Greenhouse Gas Emissions, pg. 23, Commitment to Environment Overview, pg. 14.
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions ESG Data table, pg. 39
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions ESG Data table, pg. 39
305-4 GHG emissions intensity ESG Data table, pg. 39Indicator Description Explanation/SectionPAGE 52
Indicator Description Explanation/Section
Energy Management
IF-RE-130a.1Energy consumption data coverage as a 
percentage of total floor area, by property 
subsectorESG Data table, pg. 39
IF-RE-130a.2(1) Total energy consumed by portfolio area with 
data coverage, (2) percentage grid electricity, and 
(3) percentage renewable, by property subsectorESG Data table, pg. 39
IF-RE-130a.3Like-for-like percentage change in energy 
consumption for the portfolio area with data 
coverage, by property subsectorESG Data table, pg. 39
IF-RE-130a.4Percentage of eligible portfolio that (1) has an 
energy rating and (2) is certified to ENERGY STAR, 
by property subsector0.4% of Killam’s portfolio has an energy rating, and 0% is certified to Energy Star.
IF-RE-130a.5Description of how building energy management 
considerations are integrated into property 
investment analysis and operational strategyEnergy Management, pg. 14
Water Management
IF-RE-140a.1Water withdrawal data coverage as a percentage 
of (1) total floor area and (2) floor area in regions 
with High or Extremely High Baseline Water 
Stress, by property subsectorESG Data table, pg. 39
IF-RE-140a.2(1) Total water withdrawn by portfolio area with 
data coverage and (2) percentage in regions with 
High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress, by 
property subsectorESG Data table, pg. 39
IF-RE-140a.3Like-for-like percentage change in water 
withdrawn for portfolio area with data coverage, 
by property subsectorESG Data table, pg. 39
IF-RE-140a.4Description of water management risks and 
discussion of strategies and practices to mitigate 
those risksWater Management, pg. 22SASB
INDEXPAGE 53
Indicator Description Explanation/Section
Management of Tenant Sustainability Impacts
IF-RE-410a.1(1) Percentage of new leases that contain a cost 
recovery clause for resource efficiency related 
capital improvements and (2) associated leased 
floor area, by property subsector0% of Killam’s new leases contain a cost recovery clause for efficiency related 
capital improvements.
IF-RE-410a.2Percentage of tenants that are separately metered 
or submetered for (1) grid electricity consumption 
and (2) water withdrawals, by property subsectorESG Data table, pg. 39
IF-RE-410a.3Discussion of approach to measuring, 
incentivizing, and improving sustainability impacts 
of tenantsEnergy Management, pg. 14 and Water & Waste Management, pg. 22, Sustainable 
Communities, pg. 15
Climate Change Adaptation
IF-RE-450a.1Area of properties located in 100-year flood zones, 
by property subsectorKillam does currently not disclose this data.
IF-RE-450a.2Description of climate change risk exposure 
analysis, degree of systematic portfolio exposure, 
and strategies for mitigating risksClimate Change, pg. 20
Activity Metrics
IF-RE-000.A Number of assets, by property subsector Refer to pg. 38 for number of assets, by property subsector.
IF-RE-000.B Leasable floor area, by property subsector Refer to pg. 38 for leaseable floor area, by property subsector.
IF-RE-000.CPercentage of indirectly managed assets, by 
property subsectorRefer to pg. 38 for percentage of indirectly managed assets, by property subsector.
IF-RE-000.D Average occupancy rate, by property subsector Refer to pg. 38 for average occupancy rate, by property subsector.SASBPAGE 54
Indicator Description Explanation/Section
Governance
1Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related 
risks and opportunities.Climate Change, pg. 20
2Describe management’s role in assessing and 
managing climate-related risks and opportunities.Climate Change, pg. 20
Strategy
3Describe the climate-related risks and 
opportunities the organization has identified over 
the short, medium, and long term.Climate Change, pg. 20
4Describe the impact of climate-related risks and 
opportunities on the organization’s businesses, 
strategy, and financial planning.ESG Methodology, pg. 12 and Climate Change, pg. 20
5Describe the resilience of the organization’s 
strategy, taking into consideration different 
climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower 
scenario.Killam is actively working towards reducing GHG emissions and is establishing a 
long-term plan to move to net-zero carbon emissions. Refer to Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions, pg. 23 and Climate Change, pg. 20 for more information.
Risk Management
6Describe the organization’s processes for 
identifying and assessing climate-related risks.Climate Change, pg. 20
7Describe the organization’s processes for manag -
ing climate-related risks.Climate Change, pg. 20
8Describe how processes for identifying, 
assessing, and managing climate-related risks 
are integrated into the organization’s overall risk 
management.Climate Change, pg. 20TCFD
INDEXPAGE 55
This Page Intentionally Left BlankPAGE 56
KILLAM APARTMENT REIT
Suite 100, 3700 Kempt Road
Halifax, NS  B3K 4X8
1.866.453.8900 | killamreit.com
TSX: KMP.UN
