Royal DSM Integrated 
Annual Report 2019
DSM at a glance
About DSM
We are a global, purpose-led, science-based company active in Nutrition, Health and Sustainable Living. Our
purpose is to create brighter lives for all. With our products and solutions we address some of the world’s biggestchallenges while simultaneously creating economic, environmental and societal value for all our stakeholders – customers, employees, shareholders, and society at large. We deliver innovative solutions for human nutrition, animal nutrition, personal care and aroma, medical devices, green products and applications, and new mobility and 
connectivity. Including our associated companies, we deliver annual net sales of about € 10 billion with approximately 
23,000 employees. We were founded in 1902 and are listed on Euronext Amsterdam.    
Purpose-led
We are a company that strives to do well by doing good – because ultimately, we cannot be successful, nor even call ourselves successful, in a world that fails.
Active in Nutrition, Health and Sustainable Living, we address the opportunities that are driven by global megatrends 
and the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Our purpose aligns most closely with five of the SDGs:
Science-based
Our bright science delivers benefits across multiple dimensions, already reaching more than 2.5 billion people in the world today in our three focus domains of Nutrition & Health, Climate & Energy and Resources & Circularity. We are accelerating our innovative power and enhancing our long-term growth with breakthroughs such as:
Project Clean Cow: 
feed additives for 
reduced methane 
emissions from cattleVeramaris®: 
algae-based omega-3 
for sustainable 
aquacultureNiaga®:
technology for fully 
recyclable carpets, 
furniture and mattressesFermentative 
Stevia: for sugar 
reduction0.28 22,174
28 :   721Frequency Index of
Recordable Injuries versus 0.33 in 2018 
(per 100 DSM employees and contractors)Workforce
(at year-end 2019,  
excluding affiliates)
Female  : male ratio
equal to 2018PEOPLE
~17% 2.3%
50%GHG scope 1 + 2 reduction – 
cumulative structural 
improvement2 versus ~8% 
in 2018 (baseline 2016)Energy efficiency 
improvement year on year  
versus 1.4% in 2018
Purchased electricity  
from renewable sources  
versus 41% in 2018PLANET
63%3
Sales of 
Brighter Living Solutions 
versus 62%4 in 2018BRIGHTER LIVING 
SOLUTIONSResults at a glance
20%
Female executives 
versus 19% in 2018.
50% of MB, EC and SB 
as of 15 February 202074%
Employee Engagement
Index, with a response rate 
of 92%, versus 76% in 2018
1 Excluding companies that are not integrated into our HR 
systems (approx. 6% of the total workforce).
2 We estimate that the effect of the underlying cumulative 
structural improvements in absolute GHG emissions was 
approximately 17% and 8% in 2019 and 2018 respectively, versus the 2016 baseline. The total cumulative absolute reduction was 25% and 18% respectively, versus the 2016 baseline.
3 F or a small percentage of sales (approximately 2%) classified 
as BLS, the environmental impact is considered ‘best in class’ together with other solutions.
4 Excluding the temporary vitamin effect in 2018 of € 415 million 
sales, for further information see table on page 65.€ 9,010 € 1,6842+ 10%2
Net sales, up 2% from
€ 8,8521 in 2018 (in millions)Adjusted EBITDA3 versus
€ 1,5321 in 2018 (in millions)Adjusted EBITDA3 growth
versus 2018 1   and versus a 
high single-digit targetPROFIT
1 Excluding temporary vitamin effect in 2018 of € 415 million sales and € 290 million (Adjusted) EBITDA, for further information see table on 
page 65.
2 Including the impact of IFRS 16, see table on page 164.
3 For reconciliation to IFRS performance measures, see table on page 180.4 2018 includes the temporary vitamin effect, for further information see table on page 65, and the book profit on the sale of DSM Sinochem 
Pharmaceuticals.
5 Subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders.€ 8012
Adjusted net operating free 
cash flow3 versus € 5451 in 2018  
(in millions)Results at a glance
+ 47%2
Adjusted net operating free 
cash flow3 growth versus 20181 
and versus an average annual 
target of ~10%
€ 4.27
€ 4.64 € 2.40Net earnings per ordinary share 
versus € 6.104 in 2018
Adjusted net earnings3 
per ordinary share
versus € 5.84 in 2018Proposed5 dividend per  
ordinary share for 2019
up from € 2.30 for 2018€ 764
Total net profit versus 
€ 1,0794 in 2018 (in millions)21%
Innovation sales,
in line with our 
ambition of ~20%Table of contents
4 Key data
5 Introduction letter
8 DSM and the Sustainable Development Goals
12 Report by the Managing Board
12 Purpose
16 Strategy 2021
30 How we create value for our stakeholders
32 Stakeholders
40 People
50 Planet
58 Profit
66 Review of business
66 Nutrition
84 Materials
94 Innovation
102 Corporate Activities
103 Reporting policies
103 Financial and reporting policies
104 Non-financial r eporting policy
106
Corporate governance and risk management
106 Introduction
109 Dutch Corporate Governance Code
109 Governance framework
113 DSM Code of Business Conduct
116 Risk management
121 Statements of the Managing Board122 Report by the Supervisory Board
130 Remuneration report 2019
142 Supervisory Board and Managing Board Royal DSM
144 What still went wrong in 2019
146 Information on the DSM share
150 Sustainability statements
163 Consolidated financial  statements
163 Summary of significant  accounting policies
171 Consolidated financial  statements
177 Notes to the consolidated financial  statements
of Royal DSM
228 Parent company financial  statements
230 Notes to the parent company financial  statements
236 Other information
236 Independent auditor's report
242 Assurance report of the independent auditor
245 Special statutory rights
245 Important dates
246 DSM figures: five-year summary
2
49 Explanation of some concepts and ratios
253 List of abbreviations
Forward-looking statements
This doc ument ma
y contain forward-looking statements with respect to DSM's future performance and position. Such statements are based on current
expectations, estimates and projections by DSM and information currently available to the company. Examples of forward-looking statements include statements
made or implied about the company's strategy, estimates of sales growth, financial results, cost savings and future developments in its existing businesses as
well as the impact of future acquisitions, and the company's financial position. These statements can be management estimates based on information provided
by specialized agencies or advisors.
DSM cautions readers that such statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict and therefore it should be understood that many
factors can cause the company's actual performance and position to differ materially from these statements. These factors include, but are not limited to, macro-
economic, market and business trends and conditions, competition, legal claims, the company's ability to protect intellectual property, changes in legislation,
changes in exchange and interest rates, changes in tax rates, pension costs, raw material and energy prices, employee costs, the implementation of the company's
strategy, the company's ability to identify and complete acquisitions and to successfully integrate acquired companies, the company's ability to realize planned
divestments, savings, restructuring or benefits, the company's ability to identify, develop and successfully commercialize new products, markets or technologies,
economic and/or political changes and other developments in countries and markets in which DSM operates. Additional factors that could cause results to differ
materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in the 'Risk Management' chapter.
As a result, DSM's actual future performance, position and/or financial results may differ materially from the plans, goals and expectations set forth in such
forward-looking statements. DSM has no obligation to update the statements contained in this document, unless required by law. The English-language version
of this document is leading.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 3 www.dsm.comKey data
Key data1
201922018
People
Workforce at 31 December (headcount) 22,174 20,977
Female:male ratio328:72 28:72
Total employee benefit c osts (in € million) 1,811 1,753
Frequency Inde x  of Recordable Injuries (per 100 DSM employees and contractor employees) 0.28 0.33
Employee Engagement Index (in %) 74 76
Planet
Primary energy use (in PJ) 21.2 20.8
Energy E fficiency Improvement (in %, year on year) 2.3 1.4
Greenhouse gas emissions, market-based (scope 1 + 2, in CO2 equiv a lents, x million tons) 1.17 1.23
Greenhouse gas scope 1 + 2 cumulative absolute reduction (in %, baseline 2016) 25 18
Water consumption (x million m3) 23 22
Brighter Living Solutions (as % of running business) 63 624
Profit (in € million)
Net sales 9,010 9,267 / 8,8524
Adjusted EBITDA51,684 1,822 / 1,5324
EBITDA 1,586 1,754
Adjusted operating pr ofit  (EBIT)51,075 1,345 / 1,0554
Operating pr ofit  (EBIT) 954 1,245
Net pr ofit 764 1,079
Adjusted net operating free cash flow5801 810 / 5454
Capital expenditure, cash based 609 646
Dividend for DSM shareholders (based on pr ofit  appropriation) 4256412
Net debt 1,144 113
Shareholders' equity 7,731 7,782
Total assets 13,443 13,641
Capital employed 9,311 8,181
Market capitalization at 31 December721,063 12,961
Per ordinary share in €
Net earnings 4.27 6.10
Dividend 2.4062.30
Financial ratios (%)
Sales to high-growth economies / net sales 43 434
Innovation sales / net sales 21 194
Adjusted EBITDA margin518.7 19.7 / 17.34
Average working capital / annualized net sales 21.2 18.74
ROCE512.0 16.8 / 13.34
Gearing (net debt / equity plus net debt) 12.7 1.4
Equity / total assets 58.3 57.3
Cash provided by operating activities / Adjusted EBITDA582.2 76.3
1 For definitions, see 'Expl anation of some c oncepts and ratios' on page 249.
2 Including the impact of IFRS 16, see table on page 164.
3 For the indexes based on age, nationalities, gender, inflow and outflow, the companies that are not integrated into the HR systems (approx. 6% of the total workforce) are
not taken into account.
4 Excluding temporary vitamin effect in 2018 of € 415 million sales and € 290 million (Adjusted) EBITDA, for further information see table on page 65.
5 In presenting and discussing DSM's financial position, operating results and cash flows, DSM (like many other publicly listed companies) uses certain Alternative performance
measures (APMs) not defined by IFRS and referred to as 'Adjusted'. These APMs are used because they are an important measure of DSM's business development and DSM's
management performance. A full reconciliation of IFRS performance measures to the APMs is given in the 'Alternative performance measures' on page 178.
6 Subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders.
7 Source: Bloomberg.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 4 www.dsm.comIntroduction letter
Dear reader,
The y e
ar 2019 was again a record year for DSM. The hard work
and engagement of our employees delivered good results,
in a not so easy economic, as well as (geo)political and
societal, context. We can all be very proud of what has been
achieved. We made decisive progress as a performance-
driven and purpose-led company, creating brighter lives for
all, and already reaching more than 2.5 billion people
worldwide.
Delivering on Strategy 2021
We are pleased that we once more delivered a good
financial
 performance for the year. Our total sales were just
above € 9 billion, up 2% compared to last year and Adjusted
EBITDA was almost € 1.7 billion. We delivered on our two
ambitious financial targets of Strategy 2021, with a double-
digit growth of Adjusted EBITDA of 10% and an Adjusted net
operating free cash flow increase of 47% compared to the
underlying business in 2018. Our Adjusted EBITDA margins
were also in line with our strategic ambitions at 20.7% and
18.5% for Nutrition and Materials respectively, both up
compared to the underlying business in 2018. Our Capex was
6.8% of sales, also on target. The operating working capital
as a percentage of sales at end-of-period increased to
26.3%, mainly due to acquisitions and foreign exchange rate
effects. Adjusted earnings per share (EPS) increased ahead
of Adjusted EBITDA growth when corrected for the
temporary vitamin effect of 2018.
Nutrition delivered above-market sales growth and high
single-digit Adjusted EBITDA growth, compared to the
underlying business in 2018. In Animal Nutrition & Health,
sales were strong for all species and in all regions, except
for sales to the swine business in China and South-East Asia
which were impacted by African swine fever (ASF). This
region accounts for more than half of global pork
production, with culling measures introduced in response
to ASF affecting 35-50% of pork production in the area. In
Human Nutrition & Health, sales were up despite softer
end-markets in the second half of the year. Personal Care &
Aroma Ingredients and Food Specialties both delivered a
strong performance. We made good progress in terms of
inorganic growth in 2019. We strengthened our position in
vitamin E by creating a 75:25 partnership with Nenter; we
increased our shareholding in Andre Pectin, Asia's largest
producer of hydrocolloids, from 29% to 75%; we further
strengthened our position in personalized nutrition by
acquiring the personalized nutrition platform AVA; and we
acquired Royal CSK in order to better serve the world's fast-
growing and attractive dairy cultures markets. In February
2020, we announced the acquisition of Glycom, the world's
leading supplier of Human Milk Oligosaccharides, to
accelerate growth in our early life nutrition business.Materials reported a decline in organic growth in 2019. Lower
v
olumes resulted from weak macroeconomic conditions
and specifically in some end-markets. This weakness was
mainly related to global trade issues. The lower prices fully
reflect lower input costs, and we maintained our margins.
Our Materials business demonstrated earning's resilience
in persisting weak market conditions, with an almost stable
Adjusted EBITDA. Key highlights in Materials included
further strengthening our market-leading position in
specialty materials in India by acquiring the engineering
plastics business of SRF Ltd, launching a new production
line for Arnitel®, and increasing our manufacturing capacity
for Dyneema®.
Based on our confidence in the quality of our businesses,
our cash generation and our strong balance sheet we
announced a € 1 billion share buy-back program in February
2019 and repurchased shares for a total consideration of
€ 600 million in 2019. We intend to repurchase the remaining
€ 400 million during the first half of 2020. On the back of
the 2019 results, we will propose to the Annual General
Meeting of Shareholders an increase in the dividend from
€ 2.30 to € 2.40. We made good progress with our large
innovation projects, as well as in keeping up with our long-
standing commitment to balancing the needs of People,
Planet and Profit. We can be pleased with the significant
strides we took in sustainability in 2019.
Our core competence: bright science and innovation
We continue to leverage our unique technology capabilities
t
o develop innovative, sustainable solutions that address
some of the biggest challenges facing society and the planet
today, as anchored in the Sustainable Developments Goals
(SDGs) of the United Nations (UN), such as climate change,
malnutrition and resource scarcity. In 2019, we invested
approximately 5% of sales in R&D and continued to build
a strong and focused innovation pipeline to drive long-term
growth. Consequently, 21% of our sales in 2019 came from
innovations introduced in the past five years, achieving our
aspiration. The year 2019 was a milestone in the history of
our company, as we celebrated 150 years of innovation in
fermentation and biotechnology at our Delft site
(Netherlands). Building on the solid foundations of our
heritage, we currently rank among the world's top three
companies in industrial biotechnology, and these activities
account for 20% of our total sales. We made good progress
on our large innovation projects. To name a few: our
Veramaris joint venture with Evonik started commercial
production of its algae-based omega-3 fatty acids for
aquaculture and is currently supplying three of the world's
largest salmon feed producers. Project Clean Cow, our
innovative feed solution that reduces the emissions of the
greenhouse gas (GHG) methane from cattle by at least 30%,
reached a key milestone, filing for European registration to
commercialize the product by late 2020 or early 2021.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 5 www.dsm.comAvansya, our partnership with Cargill to bring zero-calorie,
cost
-effective sweeteners to market faster, started
commercial production.
Our sustainability leadership
At DSM, sustainability is our core value and a key
responsibilit
y. It is also an important business driver that is
fully engrained in our strategy, business and operations.
Our approach for bringing about positive change is to
improve, enable and advocate.
Improve is all about reducing the environmental impact of
our own operations. We are very well on track this year with
respect to our greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction, energy
efficiency and purchased renewable electricity targets. The
underlying cumulative structural improvement in absolute
GHG reduction compared to the 2016 baseline was
approximately 17%. Energy efficiency improved by 2.3%
compared to 2018 versus an average annual ambition of
more than 1%, and 50% of purchased electricity came from
renewable resources compared with 41% in 2018. We
continued to apply an internal carbon price of € 50 per ton
of CO2eq. In addition, starting from 2019, business growth
projects must either be GHG-neutral or else be
compensated for. We are pleased that we were the first
company in our sector to set new science-based targets for
GHG emission reduction, reviewed and approved by the
Science Based Targets initiative and aligned with the Paris
Climate Agreement. We committed to a long-term pathway
to work toward net-zero GHG emissions across our
operations and value chains by 2050. We are proud that we
are one of the first companies to do so. We also continued
making steps in financial transparency on climate risks and
opportunities by further disclosing against the TCFD
(Taskforce Climate-related Financial Disclosures)
recommendations.
We also enable our customers in their sustainability
endeavors with our innovative solutions. We see continued
growth of demand for solutions that address sustainability
challenges. In 2019, 63% of our sales came from products
that have a better environmental (ECO+) and/or social
(People+) impact than mainstream solutions. We call these
our Brighter Living Solutions. Our innovation pipeline is
focused on three strategic domains: Nutrition & Health,
Climate & Energy and Resources & Circularity, and includes
for example our Project Clean Cow, Veramaris®, Avansya,
Balancius®, Niaga® and Akulon® RePurposed. Furthermore,
in 2019 our materials businesses initiated additional
sustainability ambitions and programs to offer recycled
and/or bio-based alternatives. We took further steps to
address malnutrition in 2019. The UN World Food
Programme (WFP) reaches 35 million beneficiaries annually
with food that has been improved by the DSM-WFP
partnership. Through our Africa Improved Foods (AIF) jointventure in Rwanda, we are working hard to tackle the issue
of malnutrition
 and stunting, while using local sourcing and
production in-country helps to develop the local economy
and to create self-sufficiency. Together with UNICEF, we
announced a partnership for Generation Unlimited to
embed a longer-term vision for sustainable food systems
in Africa.
We continue to advocate on (mal)nutrition, climate change
and circularity and the role of business in society. These are
issues that define our times and can be addressed by our
competences. We continued in 2019 to help address
malnutrition globally via the UN, WFP, UNICEF and the
Scaling Up Nutrition (SUN) Global Business Network. We
were equally active on the Climate front, with Feike Sijbesma
being appointed Co-chair of the High-Level Commission on
Carbon Pricing and Competitiveness of the World Bank
Group. Feike was also one of the commissioners of the
Global Commission on Adaptation, which published its
flagship report in September 2019. We continued our
support for the UN Global Compact in 2019 and remain
committed to reporting our progress within the framework
of this initiative. We are proud to be recognized as a
constructive contributor to a changing world, achieving this
by working together with governments, industry bodies and
peers. We received, for instance, the highest rankings in
important ESG (Environmental, Social & Governance)
indices such as MSCI and Sustainalytics (ranked number
one within our sector). In addition, we are proud that our
company is part of Forbes' best employer list globally and
that Feike Sijbesma was ranked 42 on the Harvard Business
Review Top 100 best performing global CEOs in 2019.
Our people, leadership and digitization
We worked on further improving our safety performance
in 2019
. We can be proud that we substantially improved our
Safety Frequency Recordable Index from 0.33 to 0.28, in line
with our goals and values. Safety remains our highest
priority and we strive to be incident- and injury-free. We aim
to deliver this by creating a culture in which everyone
working for DSM, whether as an employee or a contractor,
is engaged in maintaining high safety standards.
We continued to develop our organization, leadership,
people, and culture to enable continued high performance
and engagement. We accelerated leadership development
for both people and teams. The results of these initiatives
are reflected in our annual Employee Engagement Index
rating of 74%, with a response rate of 92% and over 40,000
comments received. This indicates that our people feel
engaged and committed. Additionally, we boosted our
digitization efforts to drive our growth and improve our
efficiency through digital collaboration tools with
customers and data analytics to increase our productivity
and digital value propositions in personalized nutrition.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 6 www.dsm.comIntroduction letter
We continued to focus on internationalization and diversity
in 20
19. We are pleased with the progress to date. Our
executive base became more international and we already
achieved our 2020 target on nationality mix last year.
Nowadays 62% of our executives are non-Dutch, and our
focus shifted to expanding our non-European population.
Today, there is a better gender balance both at management
and executive levels. As of 15 February 2020, the percentage
of women in our Executive Committee, Managing Board and
Supervisory Board is 50% in each. With these percentages
we are clearly achieving our aim of having at least 30% male
and at least 30% female members in each one. We are
delighted at the appointment of Erica Mann and the re-
appointment of Pauline van der Meer Mohr as members of
DSM's Supervisory Board.
It is with great sadness that in 2019 we had to say a final
farewell to our former Managing Board Chairman, Simon de
Bree. Under his leadership, the first steps were taken to
transform from a bulk-chemicals company into one focused
on biochemistry and fine chemicals, laying the foundations
for the company we are today.
Leadership change
Feike Sijbesma: "At the end of 20 19, after 20 years on the
Managing Board and almost 13 years as CEO, I decided to
step down as CEO and hand over the leadership of DSM. Our
Supervisory Board appointed Geraldine Matchett and
Dimitri de Vreeze as Co-CEOs. I am honored and humbled:
for having served DSM and society for such a long time and
for being able to hand over to my valued Managing Board
colleagues Geraldine and Dimitri. We have driven the
transformation and successes of the business together,
making their dual leadership structure rooted in a long
history of collaboration."
Geraldine Matchett and Dimitri de Vreeze: "Under the
leadership of Feike, we have gone through a significant
transformation, from a bulk-chemicals company into one
which focuses on Nutrition, Health and Sustainable Living,
generating Total Shareholder Return of about 400%. For
more than a decade we have significantly expanded our
nutrition business, divested our non-core bulk chemical
activities, and upgraded the materials portfolio. In addition
to focusing on business performance and financial
discipline, we have repositioned ourselves into the
successful science-based company that DSM is today:
Purpose-led and performance-driven, putting innovation
and sustainability at the heart of our company and our
strategy.Today, we are a truly global company with a diverse and
engaged empl
oyee and leadership base, creating value for
all our stakeholders. With Feike handing over formally with
effect from 15 February, 2020, we too will maintain the focus
on business performance, financial discipline, innovation,
sustainability, and people, as DSM continues its journey. We
are pleased that Feike will help ensure a smooth handover
until 1 May and that he will continue to be an ambassador
for DSM in his new capacity as Honorary Chairman of the
Company.” 
Thank you
A warm thank-you to everyone who helped make 2019 a
good y
ear for DSM, in challenging circumstances. We are
deeply grateful to our Supervisory Board, our colleagues
in the Executive Committee, all DSM colleagues and
business partners for working closely together and for their
enormous commitment and contribution. We also thank our
customers and shareholders for their trust and loyalty. Last,
but not least, we are humbled for having been given the
opportunity to work together to serve society by creating
value on three dimensions simultaneously: People, Planet
and Profit.
Feike Sijbesma, CEO/Chairman Managing Board Royal DSM
(until 15 February 2020)1
Geraldine Matchett and Dimitri de Vreeze, Co-CEOs Royal
DSM (as of 15 February 2020)1
1This dat e will not be repeated throughout the rest of the Report
DSM Managing Board (from left to right): Geraldine Matchett, Feike Sijbesma
and Dimitri de V r
eeze.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 7 www.dsm.comIn 2016, the United Nations launched the Global Goals for Sustainable Development (SDGs), a roadmap to a more 
environmentally and socially conscious and responsible world by 2030. At DSM, we believe that companies have a key role to play in achieving the SDGs. We believe that our combination of Health, Nutrition and Sustainable Living contributes in a positive way toward achieving the SDGs. 
Our purpose and three focus domains align most closely with five of the SDGs, and we show here some examples of our 
contributions and commitments toward these core SDGs. Information about our engagements (Improve, Enable, Advocate) can be found in our Brighter Living Agenda, the Sustainability statements and throughout this Report.DSM and the Sustainable Development Goals
Nutrition & Health Climate & Energy
We contribute through…
... our Nutritiona l Products that support the nutritional 
requirements both in the developed and developing world.
... our joint v enture, Africa Improved Foods in Rwanda, that 
sources local maize and soy to locally produce fortified porridges, helping local people access the nutrients they need.
... our F ood Specialties that reduce salt, fat and sugar in the 
daily diet.
... our Biomedic al devices, which contribute to improved 
quality of life for surgical patients.
... our l eadership, support and technical assistance to the 
Scaling Up Nutrition (SUN) Business Network, enhancing and accelerating the potential of SMEs that are working to improve the nutritional quality of the food system. 
... working with p artners to advocate for dietary switches 
that enable improved health within planetary boundaries. 
Our commitments
• T ogether with the United Nations World Food Programme, 
we will raise awareness for improved nutrition while continuing to develop new food solutions
• W e take responsibility to control and minimize all 
possible safety risks and adverse effects that could be caused by (the substances present in) our products throughout the value chain
• T ogether with Generation Unlimited and Sight & Life, 
we will develop a business plan in Africa to reach one million smallholder farmers by transforming the food system, providing better nutrition, stimulating youth job creation and reducing reliance on food imports
Our key SDG targets*
2.1     2.2     3.2      3. 4     3. 9
*   The k ey targets demonstrate how our contributions and commitments link to the SDGs. 
  The full t ext of the SDG targets can be found at https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/sdgs by clicking each of the SDG icons.We contribute through…
... our Adv anced Solar and biofuel solutions which 
contribute to the uptake and efficiency of renewable energy sources.
... our high-perf ormance materials which improve energy 
efficiency in and lower emissions from the automotive, maritime and food sectors.
... our anima l feed solutions (such as Project Clean 
Cow), which promote resource efficiency and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
... adv ocating for a shift to a low-carbon economy, 
including implementing a meaningful price on carbon.
Our commitments
• Our Scienc e Based Targets comprising a scope 1 + 2 
absolute reduction of 30% and a scope 3 intensity reduction of 28% by 2030 versus baseline 2016 toward our net zero by 2050 commitment
• Supporting t argets of an average annual energy 
efficiency improvement of >1% and 75% purchased electricity from renewable sources by 2030
• W e apply an internal carbon price of € 50/t CO2eq 
on our key investments, acquisitions and in our management reporting
Our key SDG targets*
7.2     7. 3     13.2     13. 3Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 8 www.dsm.comWe contribute through…
... mat erials that enable a circular economy, such as 
Niaga®, Akulon® RePurposed, and bio-based Stanyl® 
and Arnitel®. 
... supporting the f ood system through our joint venture, 
Veramaris®, which replaces wild caught fish in fish feed for aquaculture, and by reducing food waste through packaging and preservation solutions.
... our w aterborne resins that have lower VOC emissions.
... our biofuel solutions, which enabl e fuel production 
from biomass from agricultural residues.
... working with adv ocacy partners to scale up circular 
economy solutions, reduce food waste and promote the role of renewable raw materials.
Our commitments
• C ommitments on bio-based and recycled-based raw 
materials and products in our Materials cluster
• ‘Saf e by design’ is the leading principle in the 
development of new and better products and processes
• 80‒ 90% of our waste will be recycled by 2020
• W e will improve our VOC emissions efficiency by 50% 
by 2021 (vs. 2015)
Our key SDG targets*
12.2     12. 3     12. 4     12. 5Resources & Circularity
In addition to our ‘core’ SDGs, we believe that we can 
Improve, Enable and Advocate to a varying extent across all the SDGs. Below we indicate our estimated contribution on all the SDGs.Engaging with the SDGs
Improve: The impact within our own operations
Enable: Products that enable our customers to deliver sustainable products for planet and societyAdvocate: Advocating for the future we believe in and acting on our responsibilities
Improve
EnableAdvocateMinorModerateMajor
1 No P overty  
2 Z ero Hunger  
3 Good He alth and Well-Being  
4 Qua lity Education  
5 Gender E quality  
6 C lean Water and Sanitation  
7 Aff ordable and Clean Energy  
8 Dec ent Work and Economic Growth  
9 Industry , Innovation and Infrastructure  
10 Reduced Inequalities  
11 Sust ainable Cities and Communities  
12 R esponsible Consumption and Production  
13 Climate Action  
14 Lif e Below Water  
15 Lif e on Land  
16 P eace, Justice and Strong Institutions  
17  P artnerships for the Goals  
 
 Introduction letter - DSM and the Sustainable Development Goals
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 9 www.dsm.comOur purpose is to 
create brighter 
lives for allBright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 10 www.dsm.com* Liv es Reached is a measure of the number of consumers reached 
each year via products of customer and other third parties 
which contain DSM products and solutions. This estimate is based on key market insights relating to market share, usage patterns and product composition. Mathematical modelling is used to eliminate double counting. For more information, see ‘Explanation of some concepts and ratios’ on page 249.
Our purpose is to 
create brighter 
lives for all
We are already 
reaching* more 
than 2.5 billion 
people worldwideIntroduction letter - DSM and the Sustainable Development Goals
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 11 www.dsm.comPurpose
For mor
e than a decade, we have distinguished ourselves
by embracing sustainability and providing value for all our
stakeholders across the three dimensions of People, Planet
and Profit. We have taken a decisive next step as a purpose-
led company, contributing to a brighter world for all with
our science-based solutions. Our purpose is therefore fully
anchored in our Strategy 2021: Growth & Value - Purpose led,
Performance driven.
“ We cannot be successful,
nor can we call ourselves
successful, in a society that
fails.  ”
Feike Sijbesma, CEO/Chairman Managing Board
Our purpose is to create brighter lives for all
Businesses need to generate pr ofit able growth while at
the same time playing a positive role in the world.
We use our bright science to create solutions for people
today and generations to come. We use our scientific
competences to deliver transformation at scale for as many
people as possible, within the constraints of the world's
resources. We aim to redefine how we live and work in order
to create a fairer, more prosperous and more sustainable
society.
We aspire to be a company for all, creating value for all our
stakeholders — customers, employees, shareholders and
society at large — and building a stronger legacy and a
brighter future for generations to come.Acting on our purpose
We mak
e change happen in three ways:
-Improve: we optimize our own operational impact by
continually raising safety standards, promoting health
and well-being in our own workforce, reducing our
emissions, increasing our use of renewable energy and
unlocking more value from the limited resources
-Enable: we create products and services that enable our
customers and partners to deliver sustainable and
healthy solutions for the planet and society
-Advocate: we advocate for the future we believe in and
we fully accept our responsibilities as a corporate
member of society
Doing well
orcanmust
10 years ago Today 10 years from nowDoing goodFocus 
on proﬁt...
improving 
the world.Doing 
well
ﬁnancially...
go together
with doing well
for the world.Good 
financial 
returns...
go together
with
purpose.
We recognize the growing scale of companies in the global
econom
y, and the increasing impact they are having on our
world. With increased impact comes increased
responsibility. The private sector as a whole needs to deliver
value for all stakeholders — not just employees, customers
and shareholders, but the world's communities and the
individuals who live in them. We therefore take an
integrated approach to our responsibilities. Our Brighter
Living Agenda brings together many purpose-led initiatives
and creates an actionable framework for further
engagement with our stakeholders.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 12 www.dsm.comReport by the Managing Board - Purpose
Progress in 2019
We impl
emented a range of initiatives designed to embed
our purpose throughout the company during the course of
2019.
These included translating the DSM Brighter Living Agenda
into versions for our business groups and functions so as
to create clear ownership and focus. In our businesses,
we also focused on connecting customer needs with our
purpose and sustainability ambitions, thereby creating a
pull for purpose-led business. An example is our
cooperation with FrieslandCampina. "DSM and
FrieslandCampina both have a purpose-driven strategy in
which various aspects of sustainability like nutrition and
environmental impact are key. By working together in these
areas, we can build on each other's expertise and increase
impact. One of the areas of cooperation is the reduction of
the carbon footprint at the farm. With DSM's knowledge of
animal nutrition and health and our knowledge of milk and
farming, we explore together the effect of feed additives on
reducing methane emissions. Together we can make a
difference and build a leading position with sustainability,"
said Margrethe Jonkman, Global Director Research &
Development FrieslandCampina.
We set additional circularity-related targets at business-
group level in Materials in order to boost our transformation
into a purpose-led business throughout the entire product
life cycle. For more information, see 'Materials' on page
84.
Through key corporate functions such as People &
Organization, Finance, Operations and Innovation, we are
creating a culture in which purpose and performance go
hand in hand, while making all employees feel they can
contribute to our global agenda. We established a purpose-
led innovation program that defines the innovation
platforms that will deliver growth in our three focus
domains going forward.We created local ownership to help transform markets
worldwide b
y connecting regional business dynamics and
sustainability challenges to our global strategy. We also
worked on a combination of global and regional initiatives
to create a workplace that reflects our purpose-led
approach. For more information, see 'People' on page 40.
In addition to these efforts, we hosted a number of multi-
stakeholder events, including at the World Economic Forum
in Davos, Switzerland, in January. In September, we gathered
leaders from the private and public sector as well as civil
society in New York City (New York, USA) to discuss the role
of business in society and identify initiatives that have
transformational potential.
DSM CEO Feike Sijbesma at a key panel of the World Economic Forum in
January 20 20
.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 13 www.dsm.comNutrition & Health
   
R
educing occupational safety incidents and promoting 
health and well-being in our own workforce 
   
Occupational Safety: 
- Safety Frequency Recordable Index <0.25 by 2021
- DSM Life Saving Rules
   
Employee well-being programs:
- Regional health programs
- Skin care protection
Climate & Energy
   
Our l
ong-term goal is net-zero emissions by 2050. To put 
us on track to achieve this, by 2030 we will reduce our own 
carbon footprint by:
- 30% absolute reduction in GHG emissions (scope 1 + 2) 
- 28% reduction per ton of product in our value chain GHG 
emissions (scope 3), starting with suppliers 
- Purchasing 75% of our electricity from renewable 
resources 
- Extending the breadth and depth of our internal carbon 
pricing of €50/ton CO2 equivalent 
- Ensuring our assets and supply chains are resilient to the 
physical impacts of climate change
Resources & Circularity
   
Unl
ocking more value from the limited resources that are 
available by: 
- Executing our Responsible Care Plan addressing waste, 
water and emissions
- Embedding circular and bio-based thinking into sourcing, 
operations, innovation and portfolio steeringNutrition & Health
   
E
nabling healthy lives for all:
- Maintaining or improving existing good health status 
(reducing salt, sugar and fat intake; improving digestive 
health; improving comfort and well-being)
- Protecting existing good health status (reducing risks of 
injury; reducing emissions to air; reducing anti-  
microbial resistance) 
- Restoring compromised health status (contributing to 
the development of new regenerative health techniques 
and materials)
Climate & Energy
   
E
nabling the low-carbon economy through solutions that 
help customers cut emissions and improve society’s 
ability to adapt to climate change: 
- Limiting the use of fossil fuels and accelerating the 
energy transition (biofuels, solar, materials for 
windfarms) 
- Enabling the future of mobility (weight reduction and 
hydrogen storage; biofuels) 
- Cutting livestock GHG emissions (reducing enteric 
methane emissions, improving lifetime performance)
- Improving resilience to the adverse effects of climate 
change (agricultural and food security innovations, 
applications of our advanced materials)
Resources & Circularity
   
E
nabling the transition toward a circular & bio-based 
economy:
- Increased use of bio-based raw materials                     
(e.g., Decovery®, Engineering Plastics portfolio)
- Replacing hazardous and potentially harmful ingredients 
with safer alternatives 
- Creating solutions to reduce food loss and waste          
(e.g., Pack-Age®, bio preservatives) 
- Extending the lifetime of materials & products            
(e.g., Dyneema®, coatings)
- Designing for recyclability (e.g., Niaga®)
- Recovering and valorizing waste streams                      
(e.g., CanolaPRO™, Akulon RePurposed®)
- Eliminating waste from prototyping (3D printing) 
- Reducing the reliance on ﬁnite marine resources 
(Veramaris®, aquaculture feed)
- Enabling efﬁcient use of feed raw materials for more 
sustainable animal production (Ronozyme® feed enzyme 
portfolio) Nutrition & Health
   
Adv
ocating healthy diets within planetary boundaries 
   
Active in partnerships to ﬁght malnutrition: 
- UN World Food Programme 
- Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition
- World Vision 
- Scaling Up Nutrition 
– UNICEF 
- Vitamin Angels 
   
Active in partnerships to address sustainable and healthy 
nutrition:
- Food Reform for Sustainability and Health (FReSH),      
part of the World Business Council for Sustainable 
Development (WBCSD) 
- European Institute of Innovation and Technology (EIT) 
Food 
- World Economic Forum (WEF), e.g., ‘WEF Meat the Future 
Series’ 
- Sustainable Food Initiative 
Climate & Energy
   
Adv
ocating climate action and building the movement for 
a low-carbon, resilient economy
   
Leading roles/engagement in: 
- World Bank Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition 
- WEF CEO Climate Leaders 
- WBCSD Climate & Energy 
- Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
- Renewable Energy 100 (RE100) 
- United Nations Global Compact
- Global Commission on Climate Adaptation
Resources & Circularity
   
Adv
ocating in favor of the transition from a linear to a 
circular and bio-based economy 
   
Leading roles/engagement in:
- Platform for Accelerating the Circular Economy (PACE) 
- WBCSD Factor10 
- Circle Economy 
- Ellen MacArthur Foundation, Circular Economy 100 
(CE100)ImproveDSM Brighter Living Agenda 2019 
Enable AdvocateBright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 14 www.dsm.comNutrition & Health
   
R
educing occupational safety incidents and promoting 
health and well-being in our own workforce 
   
Occupational Safety: 
- Safety Frequency Recordable Index <0.25 by 2021
- DSM Life Saving Rules
   
Employee well-being programs:
- Regional health programs
- Skin care protection
Climate & Energy
   
Our l
ong-term goal is net-zero emissions by 2050. To put 
us on track to achieve this, by 2030 we will reduce our own 
carbon footprint by:
- 30% absolute reduction in GHG emissions (scope 1 + 2) 
- 28% reduction per ton of product in our value chain GHG 
emissions (scope 3), starting with suppliers 
- Purchasing 75% of our electricity from renewable 
resources 
- Extending the breadth and depth of our internal carbon 
pricing of €50/ton CO2 equivalent 
- Ensuring our assets and supply chains are resilient to the 
physical impacts of climate change
Resources & Circularity
   
Unl
ocking more value from the limited resources that are 
available by: 
- Executing our Responsible Care Plan addressing waste, 
water and emissions
- Embedding circular and bio-based thinking into sourcing, 
operations, innovation and portfolio steeringNutrition & Health
   
E
nabling healthy lives for all:
- Maintaining or improving existing good health status 
(reducing salt, sugar and fat intake; improving digestive 
health; improving comfort and well-being)
- Protecting existing good health status (reducing risks of 
injury; reducing emissions to air; reducing anti-  
microbial resistance) 
- Restoring compromised health status (contributing to 
the development of new regenerative health techniques 
and materials)
Climate & Energy
   
E
nabling the low-carbon economy through solutions that 
help customers cut emissions and improve society’s 
ability to adapt to climate change: 
- Limiting the use of fossil fuels and accelerating the 
energy transition (biofuels, solar, materials for 
windfarms) 
- Enabling the future of mobility (weight reduction and 
hydrogen storage; biofuels) 
- Cutting livestock GHG emissions (reducing enteric 
methane emissions, improving lifetime performance)
- Improving resilience to the adverse effects of climate 
change (agricultural and food security innovations, 
applications of our advanced materials)
Resources & Circularity
   
E
nabling the transition toward a circular & bio-based 
economy:
- Increased use of bio-based raw materials                     
(e.g., Decovery®, Engineering Plastics portfolio)
- Replacing hazardous and potentially harmful ingredients 
with safer alternatives 
- Creating solutions to reduce food loss and waste          
(e.g., Pack-Age®, bio preservatives) 
- Extending the lifetime of materials & products            
(e.g., Dyneema®, coatings)
- Designing for recyclability (e.g., Niaga®)
- Recovering and valorizing waste streams                      
(e.g., CanolaPRO™, Akulon RePurposed®)
- Eliminating waste from prototyping (3D printing) 
- Reducing the reliance on ﬁnite marine resources 
(Veramaris®, aquaculture feed)
- Enabling efﬁcient use of feed raw materials for more 
sustainable animal production (Ronozyme® feed enzyme 
portfolio) Nutrition & Health
   
Adv
ocating healthy diets within planetary boundaries 
   
Active in partnerships to ﬁght malnutrition: 
- UN World Food Programme 
- Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition
- World Vision 
- Scaling Up Nutrition 
– UNICEF 
- Vitamin Angels 
   
Active in partnerships to address sustainable and healthy 
nutrition:
- Food Reform for Sustainability and Health (FReSH),      
part of the World Business Council for Sustainable 
Development (WBCSD) 
- European Institute of Innovation and Technology (EIT) 
Food 
- World Economic Forum (WEF), e.g., ‘WEF Meat the Future 
Series’ 
- Sustainable Food Initiative 
Climate & Energy
   
Adv
ocating climate action and building the movement for 
a low-carbon, resilient economy
   
Leading roles/engagement in: 
- World Bank Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition 
- WEF CEO Climate Leaders 
- WBCSD Climate & Energy 
- Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
- Renewable Energy 100 (RE100) 
- United Nations Global Compact
- Global Commission on Climate Adaptation
Resources & Circularity
   
Adv
ocating in favor of the transition from a linear to a 
circular and bio-based economy 
   
Leading roles/engagement in:
- Platform for Accelerating the Circular Economy (PACE) 
- WBCSD Factor10 
- Circle Economy 
- Ellen MacArthur Foundation, Circular Economy 100 
(CE100)ImproveDSM Brighter Living Agenda 2019 
Enable AdvocateReport by the Managing Board - Purpose
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 15 www.dsm.comResults at a glance
Strategy 2021
€ 1,6841
Adjusted EBITDA2 ver sus € 1,5323
in 2018 (in millions)+10%1
Adjusted EBITDA2 growth
v
ersus 20183 and versus a high
single-digit target+47%1
Adjusted net operating
free c
ash flow2 growth
versus 20183 and versus an average
annual target of ~10%
-1%
Organic sales growth
ver
sus 2018321%
Innovation sales, in line with our
ambition of ~ 20%
~17%
GHG scope 1 + 2 reduction —
cumul
ative structural
improvement4 versus ~8% in 2018
(baseline 2016)74%
Employee Engagement
Index v
ersus 76%
in 201863%5
Sales of Brighter
Living Solutions v er
sus
62%3 in 2018
1Including the impact of IFRS 16, see table on page 164.
2For reconciliation to IFRS performance measures, see table on page 180.
3Excluding temporary vitamin effect in 2018 of € 415 million sales and € 290 millions (Adjusted) EBITDA, for further information see table on page 65.
4We estimate that the effect of the underlying cumulative structural improvements in absolute GHG emissions was approximately 17% and 8% in 2019 and 2018
respectively, versus the 2016 baseline. The total cumulative absolute reduction was 25% and 18% respectively, versus the 2016 baseline.
5For a small percentage of sales (approximately 2%) classified as BLS, the environmental impact is considered 'best in class' together with other solutions.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 16 www.dsm.comReport by the Managing Board - Strategy 2021
Our competences 
and purpose... 
Our key competences + 
addressing megatrends and 
the UN
 SDGs:provide growth 
opportunities in 
our focus domains...
a science-based company 
active in Nutrition, Health 
and Sustainable Living:creating a growth 
company...with targets that underpin 
our mission.
Our 2019—2021 targets:Strategy 2021: Growth & Value - Purpose led, Performance driven
High single-digit % 
annual increase in Adjusted 
EBITDA 
++
+~10
% average annual 
increase in Adjusted net 
operating free cash ﬂow
Value-creating M&ACompany 
gr
owth
Mega trends
Purpose sets scope for further growth and evolution
With Str at
egy 2021: Growth & Value - Purpose led,
Performance driven, we will evolve further toward being a
purpose-led, science-based company operating in the
fields of Nutrition, Health and Sustainable Living. Our strong
growth platform, centered on developing innovative
solutions addressing Nutrition & Health, Climate & Energy
and Resources & Circularity, together with increased
customer-centricity and our large innovation projects, will
drive above-market growth. At the same time, we will remain
focused on cost control and operational excellence,
allowing us to accelerate profit growth and cash generation.
Organic growth will be complemented by acquisitions,
predominantly in Nutrition.
Our Nutrition business will focus on human nutrition
(ingredients and solutions for food & beverages, as well as
specialty nutrition, nutritional ingredients, consumer-
branded products and personalized nutrition), animal
nutrition (with premix and specialty solutions), and
personal care and aroma ingredients.
Our Materials business will further develop as a high-
growth, higher-margin specialty business, and will focus on
the categories Improved Health & Living, Green Products &
Applications, and New Mobility & Connectivity.
By improving the impact of our own operations, enabling
sustainable solutions for our customers, and advocating
sustainable business, we can grow faster and reduce our
cost and risk profile. We will further step up our ambitionsregarding the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions (in
line with the Paris
 Agreement), our energy efficiency and our
use of renewable energy.
Performance to deliver growth and value
We have set two ambitious targets for profit growth and cash
g
eneration to drive value creation for the period 2019–2021:
- A high single-digit percentage annual increase in
Adjusted EBITDA
- An average annual increase of about 10% in Adjusted net
operating free cash flow
We are committed to top-line growth ahead of market,
which will be supported by expanded solution offerings that
place the customer even more firmly in the center of our
activities, as well as by harnessing digital capabilities to
increase customer intimacy, improve productivity and
efficiency, and support new business models.
Approximately 45% of sales will come from high-growth
economies.
We will leverage our unique technology capabilities to
develop innovative sustainable solutions in Nutrition &
Health, Climate & Energy and Resources & Circularity, and
will invest approximately 5% of sales in R&D to develop
differentiating science and technology. Our innovation
projects, including Veramaris®, Project Clean Cow,
fermentative Stevia and Niaga®, will result in about 20%
of sales coming from innovation. The following table
describes the ambitions underpinning our financial targets:
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 17 www.dsm.com2021 targets A mbitions underpinning our targets
High single-digit
per
centage annual
Adjusted EBITDA 
increase1. Sales
2. Adjusted EBITDA margin
3. Working capital
4. Capex
5. ROCE
6. Adjusted EPSAbove-market sales growth for Total DSM, Nutrition and Materials
Nutrition: >20%
Materials: 18–20%
Reduce by 50 bps annually to ~16%
~6.5% of sales
~1%-point increase per annum
Increase ahead of Adjusted EBITDA growth~10% average annual
Adjusted net 
operating 
free cash ﬂow
increase
Based on 2018 underlying business, deﬁned as Sales and Adjusted EBITDA corrected for our best estimate of the temporary vitamin effect.
Adjusted net operating free cash ﬂow is the cash ﬂow from operating activities, corrected for the cash ﬂow of the APM adjustments, minus the cash ﬂow 
of capital expenditures and drawing rights.22
11 1Greater efficiencies and a y et sharper f ocus on higher-
margin specialty solutions will enable new Adjusted EBITDA
margin ambitions by 2021 for Nutrition (above 20%) and
Materials (18–20%). Organic top-line growth combined with
these enhanced margins will drive high single-digit
Adjusted EBITDA growth.
We aim to accelerate growth in Adjusted net operating free
cash flow, generating an average annual increase of
approximately 10%. This results from the ambition to:
- Reduce working capital levels by around 50 basis points
annually
- Take a disciplined approach to capital expenditure, with
an overall level of spend of approximately 6.5% of sales
- Drive improvements in organic Return on Capital
Employed (ROCE) of around 1% annually
Our overall deployment of capital is expected to drive
Adjusted Earnings Per Share (EPS) growth ahead of Adjusted
EBITDA growth. Our cash allocation policy remains
unchanged and has a clear order of priority for cash
deployment:
- Disciplined capital expenditure for organic growth: about
6.5% of annual sales
- A stable, preferably rising dividend
- Disciplined M&A, predominantly in Nutrition
- In the absence of value-creating M&A, capital to be
returned to shareholders
We remain committed to maintaining a strong, investment-
grade credit rating.
In line with our dividend policy of a stable, preferably rising
dividend, we increased the dividend over 2019 from € 2.30
to € 2.40 (+4.3%) per ordinary share, reflecting ourconfidence in futur e  earnings growth.In line with the targets
set for the period 2019–2021, our performance is expected
to result in further dividend growth, which could lead to an
expected average payout of 40–50% of adjusted earnings.
We will target M&A predominantly in Nutrition, given this
business' unique growth potential, resilience, strong
leadership position and potential for value creation.
Nutrition
We have built a unique, highly integrated, global and broad
nutritiona l and other specia
lty ingredient solutions
business in food & beverages, specialty nutrition, animal
feed and personal care, meeting differentiated local needs
through our unparalleled network. We possess a diverse
and significant premix footprint, with superior formulations
and delivery systems, helping to drive sustainable
nutritional and health solutions. This infrastructure is
fueled by our complete portfolio of nutritional ingredients,
which includes vitamins, nutritional lipids, carotenoids,
minerals, eubiotics, enzymes and yeasts, as well as
texturants, flavors and cultures. This diversity and level of
integration creates a resilient portfolio with limited
exposure to single products or customers, while benefiting
from the opportunities provided by global megatrends.
Focused on Nutrition & Health, we will continue to aim for
above-market growth and an Adjusted EBITDA margin
greater than 20% by 2021. We will complement organic
growth with inorganic opportunities that broaden our
portfolio and enhance our ability to provide customized
solutions. At the same time, we will further build on the
successful initiatives of Strategy 2018, increasingly placing
the customer at the center of everything we do, while
delivering large, sustainability-driven innovation projects.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 18 www.dsm.comReport by the Managing Board - Strategy 2021
Global products
Vit
amins
Colorants
Carotenoids
Project
C
lean Cow
Veramaris®Nutra-
c
euticals &
SpecialtiesN-Am
Omega 
3 and 6
nutritiona
l
lipidsCultures
Probiotics
Yeast
(extracts)
Enzymes
EubioticsNatural
preservatives
Other
food/feed
ingredients
Fermentative
S
teviaLocal solutions
L-Am EMEAR
egions
Animal HumanMarket segmentsFunctionalitiesFunctionalitiesAsia RoW
+
Animal Nutrition & Health 
Building on the r
esults of our programs as part of Strategy
2018, we will continue to seek to deliver above-market sales
growth through:
- Marketing & Sales excellence, especially building
specialist capabilities to address wider species
opportunities and pursue new health solutions
- Customer-centricity & agility, to place the customer at
the heart of everything we do, by improving the end-to-
end experience for the customer
- Further investing in our direct business-to-farmer (for
instance in China) and overall go-to-market capabilities
In addition, we pursue radical innovation for core
sustainability topics, all of which seek to deliver long-term
solutions for the industry with the potential to create
significant value for our company and our customers. With
examples such as algal-based omega-3 for fish feed
(Veramaris®) and methane-reducing feed additives for
cows (Project Clean Cow), we position ourselves at the
forefront to benefit from global megatrends.
Human Nutrition & Health 
Building on the success of the fir st  two parts of the LiftOff!
Program as part of Strategy 2018, we will step up further in
Strategy 2021 with increased focus on customer-centricity
and commercial excellence to drive above-market organic
growth through:
- Seeking to move closer to the customer by strengthening
the value propositions of our products and services,
improving end-to-end customer experiences, and
enhanced innovation and application capabilities
- Continuing to invest in business-to-consumer to ensure
the growth of i-Health beyond the US, as well as furtherdevelopment and building  on our personalized nutrition
platform
In addition, we will continue to pursue inorganic
opportunities in specialty nutrition and food & beverages,
to enhance and complement our already strong market
positions.
Our business is well positioned to benefit from strong
trends, as evidenced by the disruptive value chain shifts we
are witnessing, which are leading to new opportunities in
Human Nutrition & Health.
In food & beverages, we see an increasing number of local
players entering the market in answer to the growing
demand for local, healthy products of natural origin with
reduced sugar, salt and fat. These new players have
generally limited development and production assets and
market their products through social media. Global players
are facing the challenge of having to reduce costs in order
to remain competitive while innovating their products. This
scenario represents a unique opportunity for us. We offer
tailored nutritional solutions to local players through our
global presence and our R&D competences. At the same
time, we help global players reduce their manufacturing and
R&D costs with our premix capabilities, but also provide
innovative solutions to replace sugar, salt and fat. As an
example, our partnership with Cargill (Avansya) to bring
zero-calorie, cost-effective, non-artificial sweeteners to
market faster is well positioned to help food & beverage
producers deliver the products and brands consumers
prefer, with significantly reduced calories.
In specialty nutrition (especially dietary supplements),
more health-conscious and educated consumers are
increasingly seeking more personalized products based on
their lifestyle, diet and genetic make-up, leading to a
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 19 www.dsm.comdemand for more individualized advice, delivery systems
and dia gnostic t
ools. This requires a more integrated
offering beyond the supply of nutritional ingredients alone,
one that involves turning scientific know-how into expert
advice for the consumer. To help us meet these needs, we
are building on our existing business-to-business and
business-to-consumer strengths, while also acquiring
business-to-me capabilities from leading start-ups such as
Mixfit, Tespo and Biomarker.Materials
We ar
e further future-proofing our Materials business by
aligning it toward Sustainable Living, in line with our key
focus domains of Climate & Energy and Resources &
Circularity. This will further develop Materials into a high-
growth, higher-margin specialty business, delivering above-
market organic growth, focused on Improved Health &
Living, Green Products & Applications and New Mobility &
Connectivity.
High
High L ow Our capability to extract valueMarket growth
LowNew Mobility &
ConnectivityImproved Health 
& Living
Green Products
& ApplicationsPA6 HV Film 
& e
xtrusionSpecialty
CompoundsHigh-Performance 
PlasticsAdditive/3D
Bio-
medical Solar
Niaga®
Specialty 
Coating 
Resins
Powder 
Coating
ResinsBio-based
Dyneema®
Fiber Solutions
Dyneema®
Life ProtectionFunctional 
MaterialsMaterials strategy
In Improved Health & Living, we are focusing on the
incre
asing demand for advanced healthcare applications.
In addition, we offer solutions that enhance end-user safety
and health conditions.
In Green Products & Applications, we are providing
solutions that enable customers to cut emissions by using
materials that are lighter, stronger, more efficient and more
sustainable. We are also increasingly focusing on bio-based,
recycled, and fully recyclable solutions.
In New Mobility & Connectivity, we are targeting materials
that support the transition from fossil fuel to electric
automotive power. We are also addressing  the growing  need
for increased connectivity between products, devices and
applications.
Across our businesses, we have intensified our focus on
customer-centricity and have implemented several
programs that focus on creating a positive experience for
our customers.Innovation
Innov
ation is what transforms our 'Bright Science' into
'Brighter Living'. We can leverage our unique technology
capabilities for developing innovative sustainable solutions
through possessing a profound understanding of:
- The science behind nutrition, and the capability to
develop new nutritional ingredients with proven health
benefits, supported by our state-of-the-art
Biotechnology Center, providing sustainable alternatives
for chemical synthesis, as well as plant/animal-derived
ingredients
- Material synthesis and characterization, and the
capability to convert this into Sustainable Living
applications, supported by our state-of-the-art Materials
Science Center
Our sales growth is driven by our ability to continually
deliver innovative and improved products and solutions to
meet our customers' needs. Our innovations reflect our
commitment to healthier and more sustainable outcomes
and so help drive the performance of our Brighter Living
Solutions portfolio. Innovation sales have also improved
our profitability, delivering higher margins than the average
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 20 www.dsm.comReport by the Managing Board - Strategy 2021
of our running business. Our innovation sales are defined
as pr
oducts and applications that have been introduced
over the past five years. We aspire to maintain a level of
around 20% during the strategy 2019–2021 period, which we
consider to be a healthy proportion in view of the overall
balance of our product portfolio and product life cycles. We
will continue to invest in differentiating science and
technology, allocating approximately 5% of sales to R&D.
Our organic growth will be supported by a number of
focused, large innovation projects — for example, Project
Clean Cow, Veramaris®, fermentative Stevia, enzymes and
yeasts for 1.5th- and 2nd-generation bio-ethanol, Niaga®,
Additive Manufacturing, plant-based proteins, and bio-
agriculture. These solutions are expected to be introduced
to the market in the 2019–2025 timeframe. All these
innovations seek to meet significant, global sustainability
challenges in Nutrition & Health, Climate & Energy and
Resources & Circularity. Altogether, we expect these to
generate around € 350 million in sales and € 100 million in
Adjusted EBITDA from 2021 to around € 1 billion and
€ 400 million, respectively, from 2025 onward.
As well as supporting innovation in our core businesses,
the DSM Innovation Center also aims to develop its
Emerging Business Areas (EBAs). These are promising
growth platforms outside the scope of our business groups.
They comprise DSM Biomedical, which focuses on
innovative materials for medical devices; DSM Bio-based
Products & Services, which focuses on clean energy from
crop residues as well as bio-chemicals with enzymes and
yeasts for biomass conversion; and DSM Advanced Solar,
which offers yield-boosting solutions for solar energy.
Enabling programs for accelerated growth
Our enabling programs will underpin and facilitate our
ambitions by f
ocusing on key areas such as performance-
driven organization, leadership and people, culture,
digitalization and sustainability leadership across DSM.
Organization, leadership and people, and culture
We continue to develop our organization, leadership and
people
, and culture to enable continued performance. In
terms of organization, we are maintaining our focus on cost
discipline and customer-centricity as we optimize our set-
up and align our activities and organization with specific
market and customer segments.
Regarding leadership and people, we are accelerating
leadership development for both people and teams, as well
as for effectiveness in growing our businesses. We are also
embedding a global mindset through further
internationalization.In terms of culture,  we intr oduced  The DSM Ways  of Working,
which describe a daily mindset that enables everyone in our
company to make a difference. These are described in more
detail in 'People and organization strategy' on page 44.
Digitization and digitalization
Digitization and digita lization drive our growth and improve
our efficiency on three levels:
- Customer intimacy: improving top-line results by, for
example, customer data analytics, omnichannel apps
providing 24/7 customer experiences, and digital
collaboration tools
- Operational performance: reducing costs by means of
automation and data analytics to increase productivity
in support functions and manufacturing, optimize
operational processes, and improve safety, quality and
plant reliability
- New business models: supporting entrepreneurship and
artificial intelligence. Examples are our partnerships for
digital value propositions and our pilots in the areas of
personalized nutrition and animal feed
Sustainability leadership
Sustainability is not only our core value and a key
responsibilit
y, it is increasingly an important business
growth driver at DSM that is fully engrained in our strategy.
We are stepping up our sustainability aspirations. By
improving the impact of our own operations, enabling
sustainable solutions for our customers and advocating
sustainable business, we can grow faster and reduce our
cost and risk profile. This is integral to our strategy and is
detailed in the 'Brighter Living Agenda' on page 12 in
'Purpose'. For more details, see 'People' on page 40 and
'Planet' on page 50.
Strategy 2021: report on progress
Total DSM financial results
During the 
first  nine months of 2018, the industry
experienced an exceptional supply disruption. This event
provided additional sales for € 415 million and a
corresponding Adjusted EBITDA of € 290 million in the first
nine months of 2018, as estimated and reported last year
in Nutrition. 'Underlying business' is defined as the sales
and Adjusted EBITDA in Nutrition, corrected for this
temporary vitamin effect.
As of January 2019, we adopted IFRS 16 on 'Leases' using
the modified retrospective approach: the financial results
of 2019 are reported including and excluding this impact,
where applicable.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 21 www.dsm.com2021 targets A mbitions underpinning our targets
High single-digit
per
centage annual
Adjusted EBITDA 
increase1. Sales
2. Adjusted EBITDA margin
3. Working capital
4. Capex
5. ROCE
6. Adjusted EPSAbove-market sales growth for Total DSM, Nutrition and Materials
Nutrition: >20%
Materials: 18–20%
Reduce by 50 bps annually to ~16%
~6.5% of sales
~1%-point increase per annum
Increase ahead of Adjusted EBITDA growth~10% average annual
Adjusted net 
operating 
free cash ﬂow
increase
Based on 2018 underlying business, deﬁned as Sales and Adjusted EBITDA corrected for our best estimate of the temporary vitamin effect.
Adjusted net operating free cash ﬂow is the cash ﬂow from operating activities, corrected for the cash ﬂow of the APM adjustments, minus the cash ﬂow 
of capital expenditures and drawing rights.22
11 1In 2019, we delivered on our key financia l  targets with
double-digit growth in Adjusted EBITDA of 10% to
€ 1,684 million, including 3% from IFRS 16. The strong
Adjusted EBITDA growth in the businesses was also
supported by our continued focus on cost reduction and
operational efficiency. The Adjusted EBITDA margin was
18.7%, compared to 17.3% in the underlying business in 2018.
Adjusted net operating free cash flow increased by 47% to
€ 801 million compared to the underlying business in 2018,
including 10% from IFRS 16.
Nutrition delivered above-market sales growth and high-
single digit Adjusted EBITDA growth, despite challenging
market conditions in some of its end-markets. Materials
demonstrated earnings resilience in persisting weak market
conditions with an almost stable Adjusted EBITDA.
Our Return On Capital Employed (ROCE) from underlying
business was down 130 basis points to 12.0% (including 30
basis points from IFRS 16), mainly driven by the impact of
acquisitions and the implementation of IFRS 16.
One of our key focus areas remains the improvement in our
working capital as percentage of total sales. At the end of
2019, total working capital was € 1,852 million, compared to
€ 1,674 million in 2018, fully driven by the consolidation of
acquisitions and foreign exchange rate effects. The average
total working capital as a percentage of sales was 21.2%,
compared to 18.7% in 2018.
Including the estimated temporary vitamin effect of
€ 415 million on sales driven by the exceptional supply
disruption in the industry in 2018, our total sales were down
3% to € 9,010 million (compared to € 9,267 million in 2018).
The total Adjusted EBITDA declined 8% to € 1,684 million
when considering the total estimated € 290 million
temporary vitamin effect of 2018. Our Total ROCE was 12.0%
(including 30 basis points from IFRS 16), a reduction of 480
basis points from 16.8%.In 2019, we delivered a good financia l  performance, despite
an increasingly challenging macroeconomic environment.
Nutrition's broad, global portfolio in food and feed
ingredients, as well as its expanded portfolio of solutions,
drove solid growth. Meanwhile, Materials demonstrated its
relative earnings resilience as it continued its ongoing
transformation into a high-growth, higher-margin specialty
business, focused on Improved Health & Living, Green
Products & Applications and New Mobility & Connectivity.
Nutrition financial r esults
Our 
Nutrition business delivered a good result, with a solid
performanc
e in Animal Nutrition & Health, a softer one in
Human Nutrition & Health, and a strong one in Personal
Care & Aroma Ingredients and Food Specialties. Sales in
the underlying business were up 5% to € 6,028 million
compared to the underlying business in 2018. The organic
sales growth in the underlying business was 2%, driven by
volumes, which were up by 2%.
Animal Nutrition & Health reported 4% organic growth,
against a strong 8% last year and despite the negative effect
of African swine fever (ASF). This demonstrates the
resilience of the integrated and diversified business model
and our ability to address a wide range of species as well
as our diversified geographical presence.
Sales were strong for all species and in all regions, except
for sales to the swine business in China and South-East Asia,
which were impacted by ASF. This region accounts for more
than half of global pork production, with culling measures
introduced in response to ASF, affecting 35–50% of pork
production in the area. The rapid spread of this disease
disrupted the global equilibrium of animal protein in the
short term. As a result, in the second half of 2019, we were
unable to fully offset the impact of the decline in pork
production in the region with increases in production from
other regions and species. Overall, volumes and prices were
both up 2%. The price increase was due to positive sales mix
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 22 www.dsm.comReport by the Managing Board - Strategy 2021
effects, a s well as price increases earlier in the year for some
ingr
edients to compensate for higher costs.
Human Nutrition & Health delivered 3% sales growth driven
by foreign exchange effects, which were largely US-dollar-
related. Organic growth was minus 1%, against a tough
comparison of 7% organic growth in 2018, in increasingly
challenging end-markets. Volumes were up 2% and prices
were down 3%.
After a strong start to the year, softer macroeconomic
conditions increasingly weighed on the Food & Beverage
segment, especially in North America. The softness was
most pronounced in the case of larger customers. Smaller
customers were less impacted. Medical Nutrition and
Dietary Supplements (driven by the double-digit growth in
the i-Health segment, our business-to-consumer business)
performed well over the year. Early Life Nutrition showed
a strong performance in the first three quarters of the year,
with a softer fourth quarter. Lower prices for vitamin C and
negative mix effects resulted in 3% lower prices.
In Food Specialties, sales were 17% higher versus the prior
year, resulting from 4% organic growth, 12% from the
consolidation of Andre Pectin following the increase in
DSM's shareholding from 29% to 75%, and 1% from exchange
rate effects. All major business lines performed well over
the year, with especially a good sales growth in cultures and
food enzymes in dairy and baking. Andre Pectin performed
well.
In Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients, sales were up 11%,
with very strong organic growth of 9% and a 2% contribution
from foreign exchange rate effects. All Personal Care
product lines, including sun, skin and hair care delivered
good above-market growth, with Aroma Ingredients also
performing well in 2019. Successful commercialization of
the innovation pipeline further contributed to a very good
year for the business.
For Nutrition, the Adjusted EBITDA growth in the underlying
business was up 12% to € 1,250 million compared to the
previous year, including a 3% contribution from IFRS 16. This
was driven by volume growth, lower costs, and a small
contribution from positive foreign exchange rate effects.
The Adjusted EBITDA margin in the underlying business was
20.7% (including 0.5% from IFRS 16) compared to 19.5% in
2018.
We made good progress on the inorganic growth front. In
2019, we increased our shareholding in Andre Pectin (China)
from 29% to 75%. We also acquired Royal CSK (Netherlands),
combining complementary strengths to better serve DSM's
largest food & beverage segment and we created the 75:25
partnership, Yimante (China), with Nenter in 2019. Throughthis partnership, we strengthened our vitamin E position for
anima
l nutrition premix solutions.
Materials financial results
In 20
19, our Materials business was confronted with weak
macroec
onomic conditions in China and in some of its end-
markets. Materials reported organic growth down by 8%,
driven by lower volumes (-5%) and prices reduced by 3%,
with a relative resilience due to lower input costs.
DSM Engineering Plastics saw persistent softness in China
and in the global automotive segment, resulting in a minus
10% organic growth. Electrical & electronics saw some signs
of improvement in the second half of the year. Business
conditions in other end-segments were solid.
DSM Resins & Functional Materials reported a minus 6%
organic growth. Business conditions in Coating Resins
stabilized versus previous year: while the European end-
markets remained weak, the business experienced a small
uptick in the Chinese building & construction sector.
Functional Materials saw its sales of specialty coatings for
glass fiber optic cables decline in the second half of the
year. The 4G network investments started to tail off in
anticipation of the upcoming infrastructure investments for
the 5G networks, which led to temporarily lower sales.
DSM Dyneema reported a minus 4% organic growth. The
focus on strong growth in the high-margin personal
protection business resulted in lower volumes in other
segments. The shift had a strong positive effect on the
margins. New production capacity was started up by the end
of the year in the Netherlands and in the US, which will allow
the business to continue its growth.
Total Adjusted EBITDA was € 509 million, 1% lower compared
to the previous year and including 1% from IFRS 16. Our
specialty portfolio demonstrated its relative earnings
resilience in current market circumstances. Due to the
strong performance of the higher-margin businesses
(especially in DSM Dyneema), good margin management,
cost control and some benefits from exchange rate effects,
Materials reported almost flat earnings in 2019. The
Adjusted EBITDA margin was 18.5% (including 0.2% from IFRS
16) compared to 17.6% achieved in the previous year.
Innovation results
The DSM Innovation Center has multiple functions within
DSM, including ac
celerating the innovation power of our
core businesses and extracting value from our Emerging
Business Areas (EBAs). At DSM, we want at least ~20% of our
sales to come from innovation sales, which we define as
sales from products and solutions introduced in the last five
years. In 2019, innovation sales amounted to 21%. For more
information on innovation and R&D, see 'Innovation' on
page 94.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 23 www.dsm.comDSM Innovation Center sales were up 13%, with 9% organic
growth and a 4
% contribution from foreign exchange rate
effects. DSM Biomedical reported strong sales growth over
the year. DSM Bio-based Products & Services continued to
benefit from the license income for yeast technologies used
for bio-based fuels. DSM Advanced Solar was soft due to
the challenging Chinese market.
The Adjusted EBITDA increased to € 22 million, benefiting
from a strong increase in license income at DSM Bio-based
Products & Services as well as a good performance of DSM
Biomedical and a positive contribution from exchange rate
effects.
Balanced global footprint
Sales growth was solid among all regions, with favorable
growth in L
atin America. We experienced increasing
challenging market conditions in China in Materials
(automotive and industrial) and in Animal Nutrition &
Health (due to African swine fever). All high-growth
economies together currently represent 43% of our sales,
in line with 2018. The share of sales in these economies as
a proportion of our total sales gives us a well-balanced
global footprint.Sustainability results
At DSM, sust
ainability is not only our core value and a key
responsibility it is also increasingly an important business
driver that is fully engrained in our purpose, strategy,
business and operations. Our approach for bringing about
positive change is to improve, enable and advocate. We
further improved the environmental impact of our own
operations. We are well on track with respect to our
greenhouse gas reduction, energy efficiency improvement
and purchased renewable electricity targets.
- The underlying cumulative structural improvement in
absolute greenhouse gas reduction in 2019 compared to
the 2016 baseline was ~17%
- Energy efficiency improved by 2.3% compared to 2018
versus an average annual ambition of more than 1%
- 50% of purchased electricity came from renewable
resources compared with 41% in 2018
2021 / 2030
Ambitions30%
b
y 2030
(vs. 2016)>1% average 
annually
till 203075%
by 2030>75%
by 2021<0.25
by 2021>65% 
by 2021Continued step-up in sustainability leadership
GHG 
structur
al 
improvement
(vs. 2016)Energy 
efﬁciency 
improvement 
year-on-yearPurchased 
renewable 
electricity Employee 
engagement 
favorable 
scoreSafety 
Frequency 
Recordable 
Index 
25%
by 2021Female 
executivesBrighter
 Living  
Solutions 
R
ealization
201974% ~ 17% 2.3% 50% 63% 0.28 20%
31 2
We estimate that the effect of the underlying cumulative structural improvements in absolute GHG emissions was approximately 17% 
and 8% in 20
19 and 2018 respectively, versus the 2016 baseline. The total cumulative absolute reduction was 25% and 18% respectively, 
versus the 2016 baseline.
For a small percentage of sales (approximately 2%) classiﬁed as BLS, the environmental impact is considered ‘best in class’ together with 
other solutions.
KPI will be updated as part of the Responsible Care Plan update in 2020.2
31
We enabl ed our customers to deliver more sustainable
solutions
 to their (end) consumers focusing on the domains
of Nutrition & Health, Climate & Energy, and Resources &
Circularity. We made good progress in our large innovation
projects such as Veramaris, Avansya®, Project Clean Cow,
Balancius® and Niaga®. All our materials businesses
initiated additional sustainability ambitions to reduce the
environmental impact of their operations and to increase
the sustainability value they deliver. In 2019, our Brighter
Living Solutions accounted for 63% of sales.We are proud to be globally recognized for our leadership
in this are
a. Our climate change strategy received an
A- rating from CDP, the non-profit global environmental
disclosure platform. We further improved our rankings in
key ESG (Environmental, Social & Governance) indices,
achieving leading positions in four important ESG indices
for investors: we are #1 out of 120 in our industry in
Sustainalytics, we have an AAA rating in MSCI, we have a
Prime rating in ISS-Oekom, and we have a leading position
in Vigeo.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 24 www.dsm.comReport by the Managing Board - Strategy 2021
To read more about our environmental performance, see
'Pl
anet' on page 50.
Organization, leadership, people and culture
We worked on further improving our safety performance
in 2019
. We are proud that we substantially improved our
Safety Frequency Recordable Index from 0.33 to 0.28 in line
with our goals and values. Safety remains our highest
priority and we strive to be incident- and injury-free. We aim
to deliver this by creating a culture in which everyone
working for DSM, whether as an employee or a contractor,
is engaged in maintaining high safety standards.
We continued to develop our organization, leadership,
people, and culture to enable continued high performance
and engagement. We also further shaped a customer-
centric organization aligned with market or customer
segments. We accelerated leadership development for both
people and teams. The results of these initiatives are
reflected in our annual Employee Engagement Index rating
of 74%, with a response rate of 92% and over 40,000
comments received. This indicates that our people feel
engaged and committed.
We continued to focus on internationalization and diversity
in 2019. Our executive base became more international andwe already achieved our 2020 target on nationality mix last
ye
ar. Nowadays, 62% of our executives are non-Dutch, and
our focus has shifted to expanding our non-European
population. Today, there is a better gender balance both at
management and executive levels. As of 15 February 2020,
the percentage of women in our Executive Committee,
Managing Board and Supervisory Board is 50% in each. With
these percentages we are clearly achieving our aim of
having at least 30% male and at least 30% female members
in each one. For more information, see 'People' on page
40.
Digitization & Digitalization
We boosted our digitization efforts to drive our growth and
impro
ve our efficiency through digital collaboration tools
with customers, data analytics to increase our productivity,
and digital value propositions in personalized nutrition. A
Chief Digital Officer was appointed to oversee our digital
transformation and ensure that we will thrive in an
increasingly digital world. In 2019, we continued to
strengthen our cybersecurity. Following risk assessments,
a multi-year program is being rolled out focusing on
improving cybersecurity capabilities in three areas:
information technology, operations technology and R&D
laboratory systems.
DSM Executive Committee (from left to right): Philip Eykerman, Judith Wiese, Geraldine Matchett, Dimitri de Vreeze, Chris Goppelsroeder and Patricia Malarkey.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 25 www.dsm.comFocus
domains
With our unique science-
ba
sed competences, we have
created a strong platform for
growth and are ideally
positioned to capture the
growth opportunities offered
by the global megatrends and
Sustainable Development
Goals (SDGs), with a particular
focus on developing
innovative solutions
addressing Nutrition &
Health, Climate & Energy and
Resources & Circularity.
Nutrition
& 
Health
The link between nutrition and health has never been
cle
arer. For the first time in human history, diet-related non-
communicable diseases have overtaken communicable
diseases as the primary cause of deaths worldwide.
Malnutrition in its various forms affects more than 30% of
the world's population: more than 2.3 billion1 adults and
children are obese or overweight, more than 820 million2
people go to bed hungry each night, and approximately
two billion1 suffer from hidden hunger. Our work in Nutrition
& Health supports healthy living and nutritious diets for all.
We work tirelessly to provide micronutrients as well as to
enable the production of sustainably sourced protein in all
its forms. We make affordable nutrition available, such as
fortified rice, for those people who lack access to
micronutrient-rich foods. We supply solutions for early life
nutrition, food fortification, dietary supplementation and
easy-to-use personalized nutrition.
We continue to develop solutions that offer viable
alternatives to the use of sugar, salt and saturated fats in
processed foods and beverages. We are, for instance, now
producing EverSweet™ — a non-artificial, zero-calorie,
great-tasting fermentative Stevia sweetener — at
commercial scale. We support the positive trend for
personalized nutrition, and are continuing to expand our
offering in this field. In animal nutrition and health, we offer
the world's most innovative portfolio of enzymes and
eubiotics to promote animal performance, health and
welfare, replace antibiotic growth promoters, and reduce
the environmental impact of livestock farming. Meanwhile,
we develop innovative biomedical solutions to address
previously unmet clinical needs, such as the production of
affordable, durable and minimally invasive replacement
heart valves.
1Source: IFPRI
2Source: UN FAO
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 26 www.dsm.comReport by the Managing Board - Strategy 2021
Climate
& 
Energy
The stability of the world's climate is under threat. If the
most de v
astating effects of irreversible climate change are
to be avoided, we must dramatically limit greenhouse gas
emissions by transitioning to renewable energy and by
adopting low-emission solutions and processes. The
transition to a low-carbon economy will also create
business opportunities and drive growth for our innovative
and sustainable solutions. We are enabling the low-carbon
economy not just by reducing our own emissions but also
by developing solutions to help customers and consumers
to cut theirs.
In animal nutrition, our innovative 'Project Clean Cow' feed
additive cuts methane emissions from dairy cows by about
30%. Our solutions significantly help to reduce the
environmental footprint of dairy and beef products, a key
source of protein around the world. Working in sectors as
diverse as transportation, electrical & electronics, marine,
personal protection and high-performance coatings, we
develop advanced materials that are bio-based, recycled,
reusable and recyclable. To help accelerate the energy
transition, our recyclable backsheet and innovative coating
technologies increase output from solar panels. Meanwhile,
the strength and lightness of Dyneema®, the world's
strongest fiberTM, is supporting the development of offshore
wind parks and helping to drive down the cost of wind
energy.
Resources
& 
Circularity
The world's resources are finit e , and with a population
projected to grow to 9.8 billion people by 2050, some
estimates suggest we will need the equivalent of four planet
Earths by then to sustain our current lifestyles. New ways
of achieving a balance between demand and supply have
to be found, including approaches that are not based on
single use and subsequent disposal. We are making
important contributions to the development of an effective
circular, bio-based economy founded on closed-loop
solutions.
Veramaris®, our algae-based  omega-3 oil,  replaces the fish-
based omega-3 traditionally used in fish meal, and has
the potential to make aquaculture truly sustainable. It goes
right back to the source — algae are the original source of
omega-3 fatty acids — reducing our reliance on marine
resources for fish feed. Our Niaga® technology, which now
allows carpets, mattresses and furnishing products to be
fully recycled, is likewise finding more and more market
applications. With CanolaPRO®, which is derived from
rapeseed pressings, we are making a new and sustainable
source of plant-based protein available to the food &
beverage sector. Akulon® RePurposed uses abandoned
fishing nets as the raw material to produce a recycled
polyamide that is used in specialist watersports
applications.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 27 www.dsm.comWe cannot do it alone
Working with and for our stakeholders, 
we will create a stronger legacy and 
brighter future for generations to comeBright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 28 www.dsm.comWe cannot do it aloneReport by the Managing Board - Strategy 2021
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 29 www.dsm.comBright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 30 www.dsm.comReport by the Managing Board - How we create value for our stakeholders
This diagram is based on the International Integrated
Reporting C
ouncil's Integrated Reporting <IR> framework
and gives an overview of how we create value for our
stakeholders based on six capital inputs:
- Human capital
- Societal & relationship capital
- Natural capital
- Financial capital
- Intellectual capital
- Manufactured capital
Since 2002, we have reported on our performance in terms
of People, Planet and Profit, and so the six capitals shown
here continue to be clustered accordingly.
Our organizational and operating model is made up of
market-facing business groups focused on the primary
business functions (Innovation and R&D, Direct Sourcing,
Manufacturing & Operations, and Marketing & Sales), global
support and functional excellence departments, and
regional organizations.
We seek to minimize risk and take advantage of the
opportunities around megatrends, thereby transforming
the capital inputs into value and positive impact. A key part
of our strategy, aside from our financial targets, is to
continue to strengthen our commitment to sustainability.
We especially try to have a positive impact through our
engagement in relation to the Sustainable Development
Goals (SDGs). We engage with all 17 SDGs, especially on
the five shown in this figure. For more information, see 'DSM
and the Sustainable Development Goals' on page 8 and
throughout this Report.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 31 www.dsm.comStakeholders
Our purpose c an onl
y be realized by working with our
stakeholders. Through empowering our employees,
engaging with our customers and suppliers, and with the
support of our investors, we will create a stronger legacy
and brighter futures for generations to come. We discuss
topics that are relevant to our operations and our impact
on society regularly with our stakeholders. These
conversations shape how we define and execute our
strategy, including risk management, materiality, and new
business opportunities.
Employees
Our people are our most important asset, and our
emplo
yees represent more than 100 nationalities, working
at more than 210 sites and offices in 47 countries worldwide.
The safety of our people is our highest priority and we
aspire to provide an incident- and injury-free working
environment for everyone, including our contractors. Our
People & Organization strategy defines our approach
toward our people.
For information on how we engage our employees, see
'People' on page 40.
Customers
Our customers are key stakeholders. They drive our
business and thr
ough our collaborations, we enable
solutions that help solve some of the world's biggest
problems.
For information on our business and customers, see 'Review
of business' on page 66. For information on how we engage
with our customers, see 'Customers' on page 152.Investors
Capit
al providers play a significant role in the success and
prosperity of our company. They support us in our pursuit
of a long-term oriented strategy which aims to continually
create value for shareholders while offering a low-risk
environment for debt holders.
For more information on how we communicate with
investors, see 'Investors' on page 154 and elsewhere in this
Report.
Suppliers
Our supply chain consists of more than 32,000 suppliers.
Our suppliers ar
e important partners for achieving our
purpose, and we work closely with them through our
Sustainable Procurement Program.
For more information on how we work with our suppliers,
see 'Suppliers' on page 153.
Society
We engage with society at multiple levels — from local
communit
y initiatives, to collaborations with universities
and research institutes. We work with NGOs and civil society
toward solutions for societal issues, and advocate with
governments and society on important issues relating to
the Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris
Agreement. We also engage in philanthropic and
sponsorship activities to the yearly amount of
approximately € 6 million for the coming period. As outlined
in our Code of Business Conduct, we do not make political
donations.
For more information on how we engage with these
stakeholders, see 'Society' on page 155.
Top 5 material topics by stakeholder group
Customers Employees Investors Suppliers
1. Climate & Energy Occupational health &
saf
etyInnovation Climate & Energy
2. Business ethics &
transp
arencyLeadership &
dev
elopmentProduct stewardship Geopolitical shifts &
dynamics
3. Innovation Digital transformation Climate & Energy Advocacy, engagement &
partnering
4. Nutrition & Health Business ethics &
transp
arencyNutrition & Health Resources & Circularity
5. Labor practices & human
rightsLabor practices & human
rightsResources & Circularity Nutrition & Health
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 32 www.dsm.comReport by the Managing Board - Stakeholders
Materiality
In order t
o assess material topics that are both of interest
to society and have impact on our businesses, we annually
update our materiality analysis. In 2019, we conducted a
thorough and extensive materiality analysis, based upon
and aligned with the timeline of the new Strategy 2021:
Growth & Value - Purpose led, Performance driven.
Our update in 2019 used Strategy 2021 as its point of
departure. The initial analysis was supported through desk
research of peers and other institutions to arrive at a list
of potential material topics. Direct feedback on the
proposed topics was obtained through stakeholder
interviews, employee workshops and surveys, as well as a
stakeholder dialogue, to arrive at a shortlist. The results
were reviewed and validated by the Executive Committee.
The resulting matrix was compared with the Corporate Risk
Assessment to make sure all relevant topics were capturedfrom a materiality and/or risk perspective. Finally, the
matrix w
as reviewed and approved by the Managing Board.
Changes in 2019
In the Materiality matrix 2019, the topics have been aligned
with the new strat
egy, so a number of topic names have
changed, or topics have been combined or split. The most
significant changes include aligning material topics with our
focus domains and the inclusion of 'Labor practices &
human rights' as a topic in its own right.
For more information on materiality, see 'Management
approach for material topics' on page 157.
For more information on our position on relevant
societa
l issues, see the company website.
Environment
Busines
s and governanceSocial Materiality matrix 2019 
Business impactSocietal interest
Moderate Signiﬁcant MajorLow High
Water securityBiodiversityOccupational
health & safety
Digital transformation
Internationalization 
& diversityLabor practices & 
human rightsProduct 
stewardship
Leadership &
developmentAdvocacy, engagement 
& partneringBusiness ethics 
& transparency
Geopolitical shifts &
(trade) dynamicsResources & 
CircularityClimate & Energy
Nutrition & Health
Innovation
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 33 www.dsm.comCollaborative platforms and networks
We c
ollaborate with like-minded peers through platforms
and networks that contribute to our purpose of creating
brighter lives for all. These collaborations are chosen to
amplify and accelerate our advocacy efforts in support of
a transition to more sustainable economic models on topics
that align to our focus domains of Nutrition & Health,
Climate & Energy and Resources & Circularity. Collaborative
platforms and networks such as these can help formulate
new solutions, and measurement and performance
methods, as well as roadmaps for business contributions
toward achieving the Sustainable Development Goals
(SDGs). In this section, we describe some of the most
significant initiatives.
Cross-domain initiatives
World Economic Forum (WEF)
We are a strategic partner of WEF. We actively participated
in their meetings thr
oughout 2019, including the annual
meeting in Davos. We continued to strengthen our presence
at regional events, including in Africa, the Middle East, and
China, to highlight key partnerships and initiatives
concerning nutrition, climate change and circularity. We
engaged in many projects and initiatives of WEF, including
the Future of Proteins, and Low-carbon Emitting
Technologies.
During the WEF Annual Meeting 2019, in collaboration with
partners including Salesforce, Yara and Cargill, we
successfully introduced the SDG Tent, a venue for discussing
business engagement for achieving the SDGs. Several highly
successful events were hosted at the SDG Tent. In 2019, our
CEO Feike Sijbesma co-chaired the Consumer Governors
and chaired the Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders. He also
became a Member of the Board of Trustees of WEF.
World Business Council for Sustainable Development
(WBCSD)
W
e are a member of WBCSD and participate in various
working groups and c
oalitions.
We are a founding member of Food Reform for
Sustainability and Health (FReSH) project and a Board
member of the Food and Nature Program, to drive food
system change. In October, WBCSD launched the 'CEO Guide
to Food System Transformation', based on input from, and
signed by, CEOs of 17 WBCSD member companies. The Guide
describes seven pathways whereby business can help
transform the system, such as 'sustainable agriculture',
'healthier diets' and 'food loss and waste reduction'.
In 2019, our CFO Geraldine Matchett joined the Redefining
Value Board, and Managing Board member Dimitri de Vreeze
joined the Circular Economy Board.Factor10 is WBCSD' s Circular Economy program and consists
of 30 leading companies across multiple sectors, including
DSM. We are co-leading the circular metrics workstream of
Factor10, convening 25 other global companies to develop
a harmonized set of indicators for measuring circularity on
a business or company level. In November, the 'CEO Guide
to the Circular Bioeconomy' was published by WBCSD to call
for the shift toward a sustainable, low-carbon, circular
bioeconomy, and was signed by 16 companies including
DSM.
Redefining Value is WBCSD's program supporting external
disclosure and decision-making. Within this program, the
Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
Preparer Forum for Chemicals, a collaboration between
WBCSD, DSM and four industry peers, published 'Climate-
related financial disclosure by chemical companies:
implementing the TCFD recommendations'. We ran a pilot
within Dynamic Risk Assessment focusing on the food
sector and participated in the Integrated Performance
Management project. We also contributed to the ESG
(Environment, Social, Governance) Disclosure Handbook.
We are also active within the WBCSD Climate Policy Working
Group and the Climate & Energy Program.
Accounting for Sustainability (A4S)
Ms. Matchett continued her role as Co-Chair of the A4S CFO
Le
adership Network. This network brings together leading
CFOs to help embed the management of environmental and
societal issues into business processes and strategy,
particularly through the finance function. Ms. Matchett is a
signatory to the A4S CFO Statement of Support for the TCFD
recommendations and the A4S CFO Net Zero Statement of
Support.
In 2019, we participated in the various events and meetings
throughout the year. We shared our perspectives on
investor engagement through presentations at workshops
and webinars, and on the TCFD recommendations during
workshops in the UK and Brazil. In New York City (New York,
USA), Ms. Matchett participated in a panel discussion on
behalf of DSM at the US East Coast launch of the A4S CFO
Leadership Network.
Dutch Sustainable Growth Coalition (DSGC)
The DSGC is a CEO-l ed coalition of eight Dutch multinational
corporations which aims to drive sustainable growth
business models that combine economic profitability with
environmental and social progress and thus contribute to
the achievement of the SDGs. To accelerate this transition
in the Netherlands and abroad, the Coalition wants to lead
the way and pursues a strategy of Scale – Share – Shape.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 34 www.dsm.comReport by the Managing Board - Stakeholders
In 2019, the Coalition assessed new fiel ds  for collaboration
such as internal change management and sustainable
packaging. Moreover, together with other business leaders,
they urged EU Heads of State to aim for net-zero carbon
emissions by 2050.
Climate & Energy initiatives
Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC) and High Level
Commis
sion on Carbon Pricing and Competitiveness,
convened by the World Bank
Represented by Mr. Sijbesma, who has served the World
Bank Gr
oup as a Climate Leader since 2017, we continued to
drive carbon pricing and share our experiences on the topic
through the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC).
The CPLC's long-term objective is for effective carbon
pricing to be applied throughout the global economy. In
addition to facilitating leadership dialogues, the CPLC,
together with partners, is also mobilizing business support
to put an internal price on carbon. We apply an internal
carbon price of € 50 per ton CO2eq when reviewing large
investments and acquisitions, and we include this in
internal management reporting by the business groups.
Mr. Sijbesma also co-chaired the High-Level Commission on
Carbon Pricing and Competitiveness, convened by the World
Bank Group. Launched at the 2018 World Bank High-Level
Assembly, the Commission is composed of CEOs and senior
executives from leading global companies, as well as former
high-level government officials and representatives from
academia. The Commission addresses competitiveness
concerns that have the potential to inhibit the worldwide
uptake of carbon pricing. The Commission convened at
various high-level events throughout 2019, such as the
Annual Meeting of WEF in Davos, with the flagship report
published during the UNSG Climate Action Summit in New
York City (New York, USA).
Global Commission on Adaptation (GCA)
Mr. Sijbesma serves as one of the commissioners on The
Glob
al Commission on Adaptation, managed by the Global
Center on Adaptation and the World Resources Institute.
The Commission was launched in October 2018 and is
composed of over 30 Commissioners and 20 convening
countries, bringing together leaders to drive action and find
solutions to respond to the disruptive effects of climate
change. A flagship report from the Commission was
published in September. This report was part of the launch
of the Year of Action that will focus on a series of work
streams that can jumpstart the necessary adaptation
actions across all sectors of society. We are partnering with
GCA, particularly by lending our expertise in the food
security and agriculture sectors, but also by mobilizing the
private sector to adopt an integrated strategy to address
climate adaptation alongside climate mitigation efforts.RE100
Our enga
gement with RE100, the world's leading campaign
to scale up the corporate sourcing of renewable power,
continued throughout 2019. We participated in the learning
opportunities, conferences and advocacy opportunities
offered to us in Europe, the US and China. For more
information on renewable energy, see 'Renewable energy'
on page 53 in 'Planet'.
We Mean Business
We Mean Business activates hundreds of companies and
inv
estors to commit to low-carbon initiatives. Our Vice
President Sustainability sits in the Business Advisory Board.
In 2019, we worked on several advocacy and
communications activities that called for governments to
match their ambition and policies to limit global
temperature rise to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels and
demonstrated the private sector's support for these efforts.
We were one of the first companies to join the 'Business
Ambition for 1.5°C: Our Only Future' campaign launched in
2019, committing to reach net-zero emissions by 2050 across
our operations and value chains.
Global Environment Facility (GEF)
The GEF is an international co- financing mechanism that
provides for global environmental projects catalyzing
transformational change in key systems that are driving
major environmental loss, in particular energy, cities and
food. We are a member of the Private Sector Advisory Group
of the GEF, advising the Secretariat on private sector
engagement.
Resources & Circularity initiatives
Platform for Accelerating the Circular Economy (PACE)
PACE is a public-private collaboration platform and project
acc
elerator for the circular economy. With its broad
membership, it aims to create systems change for the
circular economy at speed and scale. The organization has
initiated projects that focus on major material flows such
as electronics, plastics, and food, and focuses on cross-
cutting topics such as business models and metrics. In 2019,
PACE expanded its leadership group and refined a three-
year strategic action plan to focus their projects and
activities. Feike Sijbesma represents DSM in the Global
Leadership Group, which includes over 40 CEOs, Ministers
and heads of international organizations.
Ellen MacArthur Foundation
CE100 is the Foundation's global innovation platform. It
brings t
ogether companies, emerging innovators,
universities and cities to accelerate the transition toward
a circular economy. In 2019, representatives from DSM
Additive Manufacturing and DSM Engineering Plastics
attended the CE100 acceleration workshops in Europe, to
share their businesses' circularity goals and solutions and
engage with its members. At the Foundation's Annual
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 35 www.dsm.comSummit in May, DSM-NIAGA presented its journey to create
100% r ecy
clable carpets and the use of blockchain to
provide value chain information to customers in a
trustworthy way. We were also part of the sounding board
of the Foundation's circularity metrics work throughout
the year.
Circle Economy
In 2019, we continued our membership of Circle Economy,
a Dutch socia
l enterprise that emphasizes practical and
scalable solutions in the transition toward a circular
economy. DSM Dyneema participated in Circle Economy's
Circle Textiles Programme, which included workshops and
matchmaking with circular brands in the textile industry. We
also continued our participation in the Circle Built
Environment Programme (with DSM Advanced Solar). Circle
Economy supported our engagement program through an
introductory seminar organized for employees in our
materials cluster, and our attendance at the Circle
Economy's Beyond Next festival in February. We were
involved in the review of the next version of the Circularity
Gap report, which focuses on nation states and is scheduled
for publication in early 2020.
Nutrition & Health initiatives
UN World Food Programme (WFP)
In place since 2007, the DSM-WFP partnership 'Improving
Nutrition, Impro
ving Lives' aims to improve the nutritional
value of the food that WFP distributes through product
innovations such as fortified rice. Together, we make a
difference to millions of people. The DSM-WFP partnership
was extended for a further three years in 2018. The next
phase of the partnership will place even greater emphasis
on raising awareness for improved nutrition while
continuing to develop new scientific and technical solutions
— one of which is a major project to continue developing
fortified rice, a crucial staple food in the developing world.
In 2018, WFP reached 35 million beneficiaries with food that
had been improved by the DSM-WFP partnership.
Additionally, we collaborate on training and development
initiatives and on employee fundraising campaigns.
UNICEF
The DSM–UNICEF partnership has been in place since 2013.
The partner
ship with UNICEF and Sight and Life supports
the Government of Nigeria in realizing its vision of scaling
up the micronutrient powder (MNP) program nationally,
reaching people suffering from malnutrition. Together, we
have directly impacted the lives of one million children in
Nigeria by providing access to MNP.
In 2019, the partnership expanded to India as an additional
focus country by supporting the UNICEF India nutrition
program, engaging private-sector stakeholders as part of
the government of India's Social Movement on Nutritionprogram. The cooperation in India focused on mobilizing
the privat
e sector around nutrition literacy, through the
platform IMPAct4Nutrition, which was established in March.
Furthermore, the partnership is being expanded to address
agri-food business development as one of the Global
Breakthroughs identified by Generation Unlimited, a
partnership that forms part of the United Nations Secretary
General's Youth 2030 Strategy. The key objective of this
expanded partnership is to embed a longer-term vision for
sustainable food systems in Africa. The partners will
develop a business plan to attract young people and
prepare them to contribute to sustainable food systems in
a way that creates nutrition and food business at scale.
World Vision International
Our partnership with World Vision and Sight and Life, titled
'Joining F
orces for Last Mile Nutrition', aims to impact the
well-being of people at risk of micronutrient deficiencies,
improve livelihoods across the agri-food value chain, and
influence key stakeholders. We leverage our scientific
excellence, technical expertise and extensive customer
base to facilitate the development and supply of innovative
nutrition, formulation and food fortification.
In Rwanda, the partners further enabled the transformation
of the local maize value chain, ensuring a more efficient
supply chain, working with farmers and other stakeholders
on improving the quality of, and access to, raw materials
in Rwanda for Africa Improved Foods. The results of the first
pilot were positive, and the next phase will focus on scale-
up.
The project EGGciting in Indonesia focuses on eggs as an
important source of nutrition. This initiative will increase
the availability, accessibility, and consumption of eggs at
the household level in Sulawesi (Indonesia) by working with
farmers to address bottlenecks in the supply chain,
improving the quality of feed and driving demand on the
consumer side for improved nutrition. Furthermore, in
Brazil, market research for a pilot project started in 2019.
This pilot is projected to transform the distribution of
micronutrient-enriched products in Brazil, by incubating
last-mile nutrition entrepreneurs — those entrepreneurs
whose businesses serve populations living in inaccessible
areas.
Partners in Food Solutions
Partners in Food Solutions (PFS) works to increase the
growth and c
ompetitiveness of food companies in Africa.
These aims are achieved by inspiring business leaders and
linking highly skilled corporate volunteers from a
consortium of leading companies including DSM, Cargill,
General Mills, Hershey, Bühler and Ardent Mills with
promising entrepreneurs and other influencers in the food
ecosystem. The six corporate partners have empowered
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 36 www.dsm.comReport by the Managing Board - Stakeholders
hundreds of entrepreneurs to work toward stronger, more
resilient f
ood value chains across the African continent.
In 2019, DSM employees contributed over 1,300 volunteer
hours, working with 43 African clients across ten countries.
By sharing expertise, volunteers were able to assist local
entrepreneurs in growing their businesses and supporting
a supplier base of more than 78,000 farmers. Volunteer
Shelagh Dwyer commented, "What began as a volunteer
opportunity through my job evolved into a 'Purpose
Ambassador' role at DSM. My PFS volunteer experience
reconnected me through DSM to my vocation of creating
conversation around wellness and well-being through
nutrition, and SDG2 of Zero Hunger."
Scaling Up Nutrition
The SUN Business  Network (SBN) — co-hosted by the Global
Alliance for Improved Nutrition (GAIN) and WFP — is the
private-sector branch of the Scaling Up Nutrition (SUN)
Movement. It aims to support businesses in growing the role
they play in nutrition and to support SUN countries in
developing national business engagement strategies. The
SBN is established in 14 countries, with 27 emerging country
networks. These include more than 400 companies, mostly
small and medium-sized enterprises. The global
membership platform currently has 23 members, who have
a combined workforce of 1.1 million employees. Mr. Sijbesma
is a member of the Lead Group of the SUN Movement and
Co-Chair of the Advisory Group of the Network. Our Vice
President Malnutrition Partnerships & Programs is on the
Operations Committee of the SBN.
Via the Network, we supported a number of SBN projects
focusing on Sub-Saharan Africa. Together with the SBN
global team, we built on the impact and energy of the first
ever Nutrition Africa Investor Forum (NAIF), which reframed
the dialogue around nutrition. As an SBN global member,
we are supporting the implementation of SBN principles,
notably around workforce nutrition commitments;
overweight, obesity and diet-related non-communicable
diseases; and the delivery of technical assistance to
national SBNs and their members. We advocate for business
to take a leading role in these important issues.
Africa Improved Foods
Africa Improved Foods (AIF) is a joint venture between the
Gov
ernment of Rwanda and a consortium of Royal DSM,
the Dutch Development Bank (FMO), DFID Impact
Acceleration Facility managed by CDC Group plc (CDC), and
International Finance Corporation (IFC), the private sector
arm of the World Bank Group. AIF produces fortified foods
made mainly from maize and soybean sourced from over
35,000 Rwandan farmers. These foods help meet the
nutritional needs of vulnerable population groups such as
pregnant and breastfeeding mothers, older infants and
young children. AIF's Kigali factory also provides 300 skilledworkers with well-paid jobs. In addition, the regional
proc
urement of goods and services (such as transport) has
led to indirect economic development across East Africa.
AIF is the first and only certified producer of Super Cereal
Plus in Africa, and more than 70% of the price paid for this
product flows back into the regional economy. A study
executed by the University of Chicago estimated that the AIF
intervention is expected to contribute almost USD
760 million to the Rwandan economy over a 15-year period.
Another estimated USD 142 million will be contributed to
the East African economy through regional purchases.
In 2019, AIF concluded its third year of business. During
the year, AIF scaled up production and introduced nine new
business-to-business and business-to-consumer products.
Heightened demand and prices for Super Cereal Plus from
existing customers, together with the acquisition of new
institutional customers and entry into the Kenyan
consumer market, contributed to an estimated 20%
increase in sales compared to 2018. On the sourcing side,
AIF and its partners scaled up direct farmer purchases. AIF
CEO Amar Ali was recognized as intrapreneur of the year by
the Schwab Foundation at WEF, and AIF won the Sustainable
Community Initiative of the Year award at the Africa Foodex
Awards.
MANDI
In 2019, we continued to expand MANDI (Making A Nutrition
Differ
ence to India), a socio-commercial consumer products
business model delivering local nutritious products that are
affordable and aspirational. The range of home fortification
products branded as Nu-ShaktiTM include solutions for
staples such as rice and flour, as well as fortified beverage
powder. The business also aims to facilitate community
awareness and education to help tackle the issue of
malnutrition in India. In 2019, we started distributing
through trade partners in modern and traditional retail
channels in Tamil Nadu (India).
Sight and Life
The Sight and Life Foundation pioneers science-based
innov
ation with the aim of eliminating all forms of
malnutrition in children and women of childbearing age
and improving the lives of the world's most vulnerable
populations. With the continued support of DSM, the
Foundation delivers value in the nutrition community by
accelerating the translation of science into effective
nutrition programming, building public-private
partnerships and developing viable social business models
for nutritious foods.
The Foundation is engaged in many initiatives, such as
OBAASIMA, which aims to create demand for nutritious food
in Ghana; the use of its Nutrition Kiosk to engage companies
in support of the Government of India's 'Nutrition Mission'
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 37 www.dsm.comthrough a public-private platform, IMPAct4Nutrition,
tog
ether with UNICEF; and the EGGciting project, which is
about making eggs available and affordable to low-income
households through new poultry-farming business models.
Creating new knowledge and thought leadership on key
public health topics, such as multiple micronutrient
supplementation (MMS), is an essential part of Sight and
Life's work. In July 2019, the Foundation launched an
insightful edition of Sight and Life Magazine on data in
nutrition, which brings new voices to the discourse,
including thought leaders and influential practitioners. For
more information, visit: https://sightandlife.org
Initiatives complementing the focus domains
Catalyst
We continued to be a Global Supporter of Catalyst — the
NGO acc
elerating women's progress in the workplace. Mr.
Sijbesma continued his role on the Board of Directors and
Ms. Matchett her role on the European Advisory Board.
In 2019, we participated in a number of Catalyst events,
including two Roundtable conversations in the
Netherlands, a Men Advocating Real Change (MARC)
inclusion program, and the Catalyst Awards dinner in the
US. We committed to sponsor a new Catalyst work program
on The Future of Work for women, with a focus on the impact
of technology and artificial intelligence on women's
experience of work. We were involved in shaping the content
of this project and participated in the inaugural Symposium.
Catalyst profiled our campaign on Women in Science and
Technology.
One Young World (OYW)
The One Young World Summit gathers 2,000 young leaders
from mor
e than 190 countries and all sectors, empowering
them to make lasting connections to generate positive
change for sustainable development. In 2019, we
participated for the ninth time, with Mr. Sijbesma, who is
also an OYW Global Advisory Board member, delivering a
keynote speech on the need for leadership to adapt to
change. Our delegation consisted of 12 young talents
representing all our businesses and regions, and six
recipients of the DSM Brighter Living Scholarship. The
recipients were social entrepreneurs from Africa and Asia
with links to our strategic focus domains, specifically in
malnutrition and design for circularity. They were chosen
with the aim of exploring possible business collaborations
between DSM and their businesses. After the summit, the
delegates were tasked with driving purpose-led initiatives
inside and outside the organization.External recognitions
We 
are proud when our efforts receive positive recognition
from others. Below is a selection of some awards and
recognitions that we received from NGOs and trade
organizations, customers, suppliers and academia in 2019.
A full list of our recognitions can be found on the company
website.
In June, we were awarded the Best UN Sustainable
Development Goals Award at the Sustainable Business
Awards Singapore 2019. The award recognizes the alignment
between our business strategy and objectives with the
SDGs, driving societal impact and delivering on business
goals.
In August, DSM Brazil was named for the ninth consecutive
year in the Great Place to Work® list in Brazil. In the Brazilian
agribusiness sector, it was ranked fourth overall.
In October, DSM was listed in the Forbes Global 2000: The
World's Best Employers.
In October, Helen Mets, President DSM Resins & Functional
Materials, won the 2019 World Business Council for
Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Leading Women Award
in the Excellence category for her sustained and
outstanding contribution to advancing sustainability in
DSM.
In November, Mr. Sijbesma was listed number 42 on the
Harvard Business Review The Best-Performing CEOs in the
World, 2019.
In November, DSM was listed in the inaugural Financial
Times Diversity Leaders, a ranking on companies in 10
European countries on a diverse and inclusive workplace.
In December, DSM was ranked in Fast Company's '2019 The
Most Innovative Companies in China 50' and our DSM China
President was profiled in their December publication. Fast
Company highlighted our sustainable innovations in Health,
Nutrition and Sustainable Living in their ranking.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 38 www.dsm.comReport by the Managing Board - Stakeholders
ESG Ratings and Benchmarks
Sustainabilit
y is at the heart of our business. It is our core value: we see it as a key responsibility and an important business
driver. This is reflected by our inclusion in several Environmental, Social, Governance (ESG) Benchmarks and Ratings (see table
below), many of which rate us a (sector) leader.
It is impossible for any company to actively participate in every ESG benchmark, so we annually review and prioritize these.
We base this on the following criteria:
- Recognition and use by our stakeholders, including our investors
- Transparency of methodology
- Primary reliance on publicly accessible information
- Avoidance of additional administrative work
- Provision of sufficient feedback to participating companies to enable them to make meaningful year-on-year improvements
Our priorities in 2019, and the outcomes, are listed below
We maintained the lowest risk rating (1 out of 10) from ISS QualityScore. In December,
ISS E
SG classified DSM as 'Prime' according to its rating methodology. Our rating of B-
puts us in the top decile relative to our industry group.
In the April update by MSCI, we were informed that DSM had been upgraded to AAA.
This chang e w
as effective as of the end of 2018. Our continued strength in the areas
of carbon emissions and corporate governance, along with a lowering of our risk profile,
were key contributors to this upgrade.
In Oct ober, we were again listed in the Vigeo Eiris Benelux, Europe, Eurozone and World
indic
es and were reconfirmed as a constituent of the Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI)
Excellence Europe and the Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Global.
In December, we were once again c onfirmed  as a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index.
We have been listed on this index since 2004.
In January 20 20 , we were assessed by Sustainalytics as being at low risk of experiencing
material financial impacts from ESG factors, ranking 1 out of 120 companies in the
specialty chemicals industry.
In January 20 20 , for our climate strategy, and water governance and strategy in 2019, we
were assessed as A- and B respectively by CDP.
EcoVadis awarded our company a Gold CSR Rating in November 2018. At the time of
public ation of this R
eport, we are in the process of being reassessed by EcoVadis.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 39 www.dsm.comResults at a glance
People
0.28
Frequency Index of Recordable
Injuries v er
sus 0.33 in 2018174%
Employee
Eng
agement Index
versus 76% in 201872%
Inclusion Index
equa l t
o 2018
28:722
Female:male ratio
equa l t
o 201820%
Female executives
ver
sus 19% in 201850%
Of female members
of MB, E C and SB
sinc
e 15 February 2020
1Per 100 DSM employees and contractors
2Excluding companies that are not integrated into our HR systems (approximately 6%
of the total workforce).
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 40 www.dsm.comReport by the Managing Board - People
People remain our most important asset. Our performance
and suc c
ess are built on their commitment and capabilities.
In 2019, we invested again in continuously supporting the
safety, health and development of our people. To achieve
this, we focused on:
- Investing in our safety culture, led by the DSM
Responsible Care Plan (DRCP)
- Fostering health & well-being through regional programs
and best practices 
- Further anchoring our customer-centricity strategy and
strengthening our international footprint
- Investing in people and team development as well as our
Employee Value Proposition to attract, engage and retain
the right talent
- Exploring digitalization, automation and analytics in
preparing the organization for the 'Future of Work'
The key material topics for People are:
- Occupational health & safety (covered in Safety, health
& well-being)
- Labor practices & human rights (covered in Human
Rights)
- Leadership & development
- Internationalization & diversity
For more information about our People performance, see
'Sustainability Statements — People' on page 150. See also
'How we create value for our stakeholders' on page 30 and
'Stakeholders' on page 32.
Safety, health & well-being
Aspiration 2019 2018
Occupational safety
- Frequency Index REC 0.25
in 20 20 0.28 0.33
- Frequency Index LWC 0.09 0.11
Process safety
- PSI Rate 0.15
in 20 20 0.23 0.22
Occupational health
cases 16 2
9
Safety remains our highest priority and we strive to be
incident- 
and injury-free. We aim to deliver this by creating
a culture in which everyone prioritizes safety and drives
relentless execution of our SHE policies. In 2019, we defined
the new DSM Responsible Care Plan (DRCP), which
addresses the topics of safety and health, among others.
More information about the DRCP can be found in 'DSM
Responsible Care Plan 2019–2021' on page 51.Our safety priorities are to focus on high-risk and high-
frequency
 incident categories and locations, to further drive
the standardization and digitalization of our key SHE (Safety,
Health, Environment) processes, and to continue our 'I Care,
We Care' campaign, keeping safety awareness high through
global guidance and locally relevant programs. These
support the realization of our safety aspirations of a Safety
Frequency Recordable Index (FI-REC) below 0.25 and a
Process Safety Rate (PSI) of 0.15 by 2020.
Our health & well-being ambition is to create a positive
culture of health at work and support our employees to be
'fit for the future' by promoting vitality and well-being.
Through regional programs focused on prevention, we
facilitate healthy work conditions.
Occupational safety
Occupational safety is the safety of our employees and
contr
actors. In 2019, the Frequency Index of all DSM
Recordable Injuries significantly improved from 0.33 to 0.28.
Special attention was given to the sites where the majority
of reportable safety incidents occurred in 2018. These sites
reported an improvement in reportable incidents of 65%.
The Frequency Index of Lost Workday Cases (LWC) for DSM
employees improved to 0.09.
Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries
12-month moving average
REC-rate, DSM all
0.5Rate for Lost Workday Cases (LWC), DSM-own
0.4
20
13 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 20190.3
0.2
0.1
0DSM Target FI REC All 2020: 0.250.28
0.09
Hand s afety was identified as a focus area, and actions were
t
aken to eliminate knives and make cut-resistant gloves a
mandatory part of personal protective equipment, where
relevant. The number of hand injuries did not drop
significantly in 2019 but we expect to see the impact of this
change in 2020. Diligent follow-up on selected safety
incidents and serious near-misses took place company-
wide to secure sustainable learnings for the prevention of
these incidents.
The Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries among
contractors improved from 0.51 to 0.49. This was due to a
substantial decrease in the number of contractor incidents
— supported by improvements in contractor supervision
and diligent implementation of learnings from previous
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 41 www.dsm.comaccidents — and offset by a signific ant  decrease in
contractor hours due to the completion in 2018 of the Blue
Sky Project in China, which recorded 2.2 million man-hours
without safety incidents and only one health incident.
DSM Life Saving Rules
Our Life Saving Rules (LSR) play a key role in our approach
to s
afety and address the highest risks in our operations.
In 2019, the learnings from serious safety incidents in the
recent years were integrated into the updated LSR.
Ambiguity in several of the dimensions has been removed.
This includes changes such as moving to zero tolerance
regarding alcohol/drugs (including company-related social
events if driving afterwards), and allowing no mobile phone
use (even handsfree) when driving a vehicle on DSM
business. The changes were followed by a communication
campaign in which our senior leaders explain what the LSR
mean for them and why these are so important for our
company.
Process safety
Process safety is the safe operation of our facilities. The
Pr
ocess Safety Rate stayed almost flat, moving from 0.22 in
2018 to 0.23 in 2019. Asset and mindset improvements are
needed to address small product leakages, which account
for the larger part of these incidents. Our leading KPIs
continue to play a key role in driving capability
improvements and relentless execution of all process safety
life-cycle actions. They also drive visible leadership — a key
element of our 'I Care, We Care' campaign that plays a
significant part in our journey toward an incident and
injury-free workplace.
Frequency Index of Process Safety Incidents
0.280.28
0.190.190.220.220.230.2312-month moving average Target 2020
2016 2017 2018 201900.
10.20.30.4The standardization of processes and implementation of
digita
l tools such as our electronic permit-to-work process
are progressing. These are designed to prevent the
potentially most serious process safety incidents.
Health & well-being
Our health management system is based on prevention,
primary car
e and promotion. Through the design of our
processes and products, as well as the provision of proper
protective equipment, we aim to prevent occupational
illness. Primary care is provided by site-based medical
professionals and also includes emergency preparedness
and first aid. Promotion of good health is continuously
addressed through a wide range of health promotion
activities and is reflected in our SHE policies.
We recorded 16 occupational health cases in 2019, involving,
for example hearing loss, ergonomics and allergic reactions.
Regional health activities are encouraged and support
employees worldwide who would like to improve their
health and well-being in the short term. We also take a long-
term perspective in encouraging long-term health and
employability. Examples include DSM FIT in the Netherlands
and the Brighter Living Wellness Program in North America.
DSM FIT
The DSM FIT department was created in 2017 with the
ambition to cr
eate a sound, safe and healthy work
environment. In 2019, the team finalized their
transformation from a medical/occupational health
department into an all-round employability department in
which employees of DSM FIT also serve as employability
ambassadors. To complement this, a trained network of
employees was created to support the well-being of their
colleagues through advice and coaching. DSM FIT provides
onsite guidance for employees whose employment
relationship is coming to an end, focusing on the full
aspects of employability. Besides this, it supports initiatives
that create an open culture in which employability and well-
being are openly discussed and valued.
In 2019, a project to improve long-term employability was
started, owned by both the Works Council and the President
of DSM Netherlands. A survey was conducted within the
Dutch employee base to identify how people feel about
their work and how resilient they feel in times of high
workload or pressure. The survey had a response rate of
60% among the Netherlands-based workforce. In addition,
we introduced the employability monitor, providing
valuable feedback about the employability of an individual.
The monitor also provides the opportunity for conversation
with an employability advisor — a DSM colleague trained to
help employees interpret and act on their personal monitor
results.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 42 www.dsm.comReport by the Managing Board - People
The Brighter Living Wellness Program
The Bright er Living W
ellness Program has enjoyed a
participation rate of over 60% since it began in 2018. The
program provides incentives to all employees (including
spouses/domestic partners (DPs) enrolled in their medical
plans) to live healthier lives.
The program hosts a network of more than 60 wellness
champions, who meet monthly and help support
employees on site to encourage healthy habits. Employees
and their spouses/DPs can receive incentives that
contribute toward their health care costs and other
incentives for financial wellness checkups, preventative
care checkups and age-appropriate screenings.
All locations in North America possess onsite resources
including health stations that monitor weight and blood
pressure. Affordable and easy access to medical care is
offered via telemedicine, including doctors' visits and
counseling by phone and online.
The North American Nomad Challenge was a team step-
counting challenge in which employees 'walked' to each of
our 37 locations in North America, with the winning teams
and individuals receiving incentives within the framework
of the Brighter Living Wellness Program.
Human Rights
In addition to taking care of the safety, health and well-
being of our emplo
yees, we also have a responsibility as a
company to protect human rights. This is fundamental to
achieving the sustainable societal advances to which we
aspire. We believe that the basic rights and freedoms to
which all people are entitled — human rights — should be
understood, respected and promoted by all companies as
the cornerstone of socially responsible business.
We have a long-standing commitment to international
declarations and the relevant instruments to safeguard
these, including:
- The UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights
- The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human
Rights (the Ruggie Framework)
- The ILO International Labour Standards
- The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises
We apply the International Labour Standards of the
International Labour Organisation. We respect the role of
works councils and collective bargaining, and work with
these groups in the countries and regions in which they are
present. We develop social plans and severance programs
in the event of significant reorganizations. We promoteemployee empowerment and human rights prot ection, and
we maintain dialogues with employees and representative
bodies to enable this.
We have been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since
2007. For more information, see our human rights position
paper on the company website.
Our human rights cross-functional working group was
launched in 2018 to further embed our approach to human
rights. It focuses on the following seven areas in our own
operations and in the supply chain: non-discrimination;
prohibition of child labor; health and safety; fair
remuneration; protection of personal information;
corruption and bribery; and grievance mechanisms.
Own operations
A thorough review of our internal processes was conducted
in 2019 t
o obtain an in-depth inventory of policies and
practices across the seven focus areas mentioned above.
This enabled us to concentrate our efforts in terms of
further assessment, gap analysis and mitigating actions
moving forward. The initial findings show that our focus
areas are well covered at a global level regarding a policy
and broader legal perspective.
The next phase will be to design, test and roll out a new due
diligence approach to check to what extent our actual
practice is consistent with our internal policies and to
define our salient human rights areas.
In addition to these topics, a specific area of attention was
fair remuneration, with a focus on equal pay / gender pay
gap and living wage.
Equal pay / Gender pay gap
Our commitment is to set equal pay and remuneration for
men and women for doing simil
ar work that requires
equivalent qualifications and skills. We have further
elaborated our position in our Equal Pay statement, which
is published on the company website.
In 2019, we conducted an initial analysis on gender pay gap
to calculate the global ratio of the average base salary of
women compared to men. The gender pay gap in 2019 was
9% in favor of women (female:male pay ratio — 109:100). This
ratio is based on validated employee base pay data for our
significant locations of operations1 and covers
approximately 63% of our global employee base. The pay
gap can primarily be attributed to a higher proportion of
male employees in lower-level positions.
In 2020, we aim to conduct further in-depth analysis and
data validation. Any learnings and observations will be
1Signific ant locations of operations include Brazil, China, Netherlands, Switzerland and US, excluding Pentapharm (Switzerland and Brazil) and Jiangshan (Jiangsu
Province, China).
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 43 www.dsm.comconverted into further action planning, which will involve
interna
l communication and awareness activities (such as
incorporation into reward training modules), and alignment
with our inclusion and diversity agenda. In the coming years,
further efforts will also be made to increase the coverage
of this analysis.
Living wage
We are committed to providing a living wage to all our
emplo
yees. In 2019, as an initial step toward this
commitment, we performed a first measurement on our
significant operations to gain insights into the difference
between actual salaries and country-level living wage
standards. The outcome of this exercise was shared with
the Executive Committee. We also operate in countries for
which living wage standards are not yet available or where
a variety of different living wage standards exist (for
example, differences between urban and rural contexts, or
between provinces). To address this, we have partnered with
an external agency to develop a methodology and approach
for these countries which will be further rolled out through
2020.
Supply chain
Beyond our own operations, potential labor and human
rights implications ar
e handled through our Sustainable
Procurement Program (SPP). We assess suppliers for
potential human rights issues through Together for
Sustainability/EcoVadis sustainability assessments and
audits. Read more about our SPP and how we manage
potential human rights issues within our supply chain in
'Suppliers' on page 153. See the company website for our
Modern Slavery Statement.
People and organization strategy
In 2018, we formulated and shared our ambitions in our
people and or
ganization (P&O) strategy in support of
Strategy 2021. The P&O strategy is built around six strategic
levers: Operating model, Customer-centricity,
Internationalization & diversity, Leadership & development,
Team by team, and Culture / The DSM Ways of Working.
The following sections show the progress that has been
made in respect of each of these levers.
Operating model
Our operating model as described in our value creation
model on pa
ge 30, is composed of our market-facing
business groups (focusing on the primary business
functions), global support and functional excellence
departments, and regional organizations. In this matrix we
need to make sure we stay competitive and are equipped
to integrate acquisitions. This was successfully executed in
acquisitions such as SRF (India), along with the expansion
of our share in Andre Pectin (China) in 2019.We continue to develop and optimize our model, leveraging
our shar
ed services and digitalization. We employ digital
solutions, such as our P&O dashboard, to support us in
tracking our progress.
In 2019, we initiated a 'Future of Work' program within the
P&O function, to ensure that our P&O strategy anticipates
and addresses projected changes to work, workforce and
workplace driven by digitalization, demographics, and other
factors. A global P&O project team was formed, and
recommended DSM-specific priorities for action, which will
be embedded in the strategy going forward.
“ Work is an important part
of people’s lives and
identities. At DSM, we strive
to create a working
environment in which our
people can be themselves,
have room to develop, and
add value to our
organization in their
unique ways. That’s what
drives me every day.  ”
Judith Wiese, DSM Executive Committee
Group business Services (GbS) NextGen Transformation
progr
am
GbS is tasked with taking care of the growing portfolio of
interna
l services that enable our employees and people
managers to focus their time and energy on their core
business. Automation and digitalization are key to help
create efficiencies and ensure that GbS is able to manage
a higher volume of transactional work with a better
employee experience as well as at a competitive and
sustainable price.
The GbS NextGen program was set up in 2019 to leverage
the benefits of digitalization and new technologies such as
Artificial Intelligence (AI) and robotization. GbS will continue
to restructure its geographical footprint to deliver this. As
a result, we are strengthening the role of Hyderabad (India)
as our central hub for the shared service functions Finance,
Information Technology, Purchasing and HR.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 44 www.dsm.comReport by the Managing Board - People
Digital Acceleration Group
The Digit a
l Acceleration Group comprises senior leaders
across DSM whose responsibility is to identify and
accelerate the funding of relevant digital solutions. They
meet on a monthly basis with the brief to shape our digital
future, enable digital transformation, accelerate and scale
digital solutions, and boost the digital mindset and
capabilities of the company. Investments for acceleration
are selected on the basis of clear criteria and follow
venturing practices: a phased approach with clear stage
gates and phased funding.
Customer-centricity
The market-facing business groups focus on the primary
business 
functions of Innovation and R&D, Direct Sourcing,
Manufacturing & Operations, and Marketing & Sales. With
the fast-changing and increasing localization of our
markets, it is essential to put our customers first in
determining how we innovate, organize ourselves and build
capabilities, and how we reward our people.
In DSM Nutritional Products, the customer-centricity
program, started in 2018, focused on three elements:
fostering understanding, building capabilities and
reinforcing behaviors. The focus in 2019 was on building
capabilities through a collaboration with DUKE Corporate
Education. It was launched with an eight-week virtual and
collaborative learning journey employing gamification,
followed by a global summit. The program aims to embed
change by sharing learnings, using role modeling, and
celebrating best practices.
Within DSM Engineering Plastics, the multi-year integrated
program on customer-centricity launched customer-
focused scorecards in 2019. The scorecard gives insight into
our Net Promoter Score, see 'Sustainability Statements —
Customers' on page 152, as well as how employees can use
customer feedback to improve their work. They reflect on
how we engage with customers online and how this leads
to a follow-up, how we build and commercialize, and how
we care for supply chain reliability and complaint handling.
This initiative engages many employees across the
company, not only the sales department.
The global short-term incentive (STI) framework better
aligns pay and performance and focuses on the
achievement of business objectives across all levels within
the organization (non-sales). The framework covers
approximately 4,700 employees. In 2019, KPIs measuring
customer-centricity were added such as 'on time in full' and
'customer complaints resolution.' Specifically applicable to
sales employees, the Sales Compensation Framework and
the respective business unit Sales Incentive Plans (SIPs)
have been further revised and deployed, leading to more
alignment between pay and sales performance as well as
increased cost-effectiveness. These SIPs are tailored to thespecific needs of the respective businesses and applicable
s
ales roles. In addition, advanced tooling is being rolled out,
leading to better insights into sales achievements and
subsequent further fine-tuning of KPIs, along with more
efficient monitoring of cost-effectiveness.
Internationalization & diversity
Aspiration 2019 2018
Female executives 25%
by 20
21 20% 19%
Under-represented
nationa lities35%
by 20
21 31% 31%
We aim to develop a talent base that is global and diverse,
reflecting
 the markets and customers we serve. In 2019, we
continued our focus on increasing the representation of
women and under-represented nationalities at executive
level and throughout our management pipeline in order to
fuel innovation and growth in every country where we
operate.
In 2019, we were ranked first in the Female Board Index by
TIAS School for Business and Society, and we were also one
of only three companies that complied with the Dutch
targets (>30%) of gender diversity at Managing Board and
Supervisory Board level, as well as with the European
Supervisory Board gender target (>40%). Both our
Supervisory Board and our Managing Board were well
balanced in 2019 in terms of gender, comprising 50% and
33% women respectively, which is in line with Dutch
legislation and with the company's own diversity policy.
The gender diversity levels of 50% women within our
Supervisory Board and 43% women within our Executive
Committee exceed our target for at least 30% of these
positions to be held by women and at least 30% by men.
The composition of both our Supervisory Board and our
Executive Committee is in line with our target of not having
more than 50% of the members drawn from a single
nationality. Furthermore, in the Supervisory Board of DSM
Nederland B.V., a subsidiary of Royal DSM, one of the three
members is female. As of 15 February 2020, the percentage
of women in our Executive Committee, Managing Board and
Supervisory Board is 50%.
The percentage of female executives increased slightly to
20%. Our target for female executives of 25% remains
challenging and we aspire to deliver the targeted level by
the end of the current strategic period.
We aim to shift the geographical distribution of executives
and other key functions to ensure that relevant decisions
can be made close to where our customers are. We keep a
keen eye on our nationality balance, which should reflect
our global footprint. In 2018, we achieved our 2020 target on
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 45 www.dsm.comnationality mix .  As a result, we have switched our focus from
non-Dutch to non-European, setting ourselves an ambitious
target of 35% non-European executives by 2021. In 2019, 62%
of our executives were non-Dutch compared to 60% in 2018,
with 31% being non-European in line with 2018. Our
executive base became more international, and we have
seen a positive trend in onboarding local executives in Asia,
as replacements for internationally-posted executives in
the region.
We will continue to focus on our hiring process to support
our diversity ambitions. In 2019, we raised awareness by
highlighting unconscious bias in our (he)ART of Hiring
manager training, encouraging more inclusive approaches
at every stage in the hiring process and facilitating
evaluation calls to ensure better and fairer hiring decisions.
Over this period, we saw a 30% increase in the female
pipeline and a 10% increase in gender-diverse hires for our
middle and upper management population.
Leadership & development
Aspiration 2019 2018
Training hours per
empl o
yee 8 6
Demographic and technological shifts mean that it is more
important than e
ver that people remain 'fit for the future',
both as professionals and as individuals. We believe that
there are talents in everyone, and as such, development is
a key and joint responsibility of every employee and their
manager. We encourage our people to proactively work on
leveraging the development tools and opportunities
available to them. To facilitate this, we are working on
improving the overall employee experience and are
leveraging relevant digital tools.Regular performance evaluations play an important role
in ensuring we ar e perf
ormance-driven and develop our
people for roles today and into the future. In 2019, almost
15,000 employees had access to the global digital
evaluation tool for performance reviews. All other
employees participated in performance evaluation on
paper or by means of local systems.
We follow the 70:20:10 principle in learning and
development: approximately 70% of learning happens
through experiences, 20% through others and 10% through
formal sources. In June 2019, a campaign was launched to
update every employee on the development opportunities
that are available to them, such as in-depth development
plans, learning platforms and mentoring.
Following a successful pilot in the US, we launched the 'X-
Time' platform across the company in 2019. This platform
enables employees who are looking to develop through
experiences to find projects that would benefit from diverse,
cross-functional team members. Employees can spend up
to 10% of their time on these projects. Since the launch of
X-Time, almost 600 employees have signed up for this
initiative, over 200 projects have been posted, and more
than 100 matches have been made.
Learning from others takes various forms at DSM. We
continued our global and regional mentoring program in
2019, as well as team-based workshops that focus on
collaboration and inclusiveness. In 2019, more than 420
employees participated in our regional mentoring
programs, and almost 50 employees engaged in a cross-
regional mentoring relationship as part of the global
mentoring program. The reverse mentoring program was
integrated into the mentoring program, enabling all
relationships to benefit from reverse mentoring.
The 70:20:10 principle for learning and development
• X-Time Projects
• International as
signments
• TeamXcelerator exercises
• Learning on the job
• Development Plans
• Experience Map
• Job rotations70%
• Bright mentoring
• Peer gr
oup learning
• TeamXcelerator assessments
• 360 feedback
• Yammer
• Communities of PracticeThrough othersThrough experiences
Through formal sources
• Learning Programs
   Fac
e to face, Virtual classrooms 
   and e-learnings
• TeamXcelerator resources
• DSM Virtual Library
• Bright Learning platform20%
10%
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 46 www.dsm.comReport by the Managing Board - People
Developing our l e aders and people managers remains a key
priority for us and thus a key element of our people
development strategy. The DSM Leadership Model provides
a common vision and language for leadership and specifies
the behaviors we expect from our leaders and people
managers. Building on that foundation, our Leadership
Transition Programs address the learning and development
needs of leaders in each phase of their careers.
After the successful launch of these programs in 2018, we
were able to increase participation by 20% in 2019. To
complement our current leadership development offering,
we are preparing the launch of a program for senior
managers who are transitioning to leading an organization
within DSM.
Broadening our pipeline
To assess the potential and accelerate the development of
our le
adership talents, we perform annual talent reviews
throughout the company. In these reviews, leadership
teams, and ultimately the Executive Committee, discuss how
to strengthen the talent base and consider succession,
discussing employees who have the potential to progress to
senior leadership positions. This quantitative and
qualitative review ensures we have the right amount of
talent at each level for future growth but also that our
workforce and leadership are as diverse as the markets and
customers we serve.
In 2019, we focused on improving our employer branding for
graduates and invested in our global and regional graduate
programs. We updated our Employee Value Proposition,
which will not only help to attract and engage a higher-
quality and diverse candidate pool, but will also mobilize
our existing employees to become purpose-led talent
ambassadors. We will further roll out our Employee Value
Proposition through 2020.
We additionally launched a global graduate framework to
ensure we build deeper partnerships with target
universities that are globally recognized as innovative,
inclusive and progressive in the realm of social
entrepreneurship.
In 2019, we took several steps to improve our executive
leadership pipeline: we focused on targeted external hiring
but also invested in leadership assessment and the
development of key leaders. Our long-term succession pool
for business group and functional leadership team
positions improved significantly. We assessed 75% of all
leadership hires for learning potential and saw a 35%
increase in the hiring of broad, entrepreneurial talent at this
level. We expect that these steps will continue to drive more
integrated, customer-centric and innovative business
solutions.Team by Team
Aspiration 2019 2018
Employee engagement 75%
by 20
20 74% 76%
Inclusion index 72% 72%
In an increasingly international and diverse workforce at
DSM, we oper
ate more and more in different, virtual
(project) teams and project organizations. To support this,
we invest time in building high-performing, inclusive and
engaged teams. In 2019, we continued our journey in
defining how to make our teams more effective and how to
leverage them for growth, making investments in
equipment and the skills of our employees to enable them
to use technology to connect with each other more
effectively.
The building of high-performing teams is enabled by
TeamXcelerator, a toolkit launched in 2019 to help teams
develop and accelerate their performance. The online
toolkit — which has already been used by more than 1,200
employees — contains over 200 ready-to-use team
assessments and exercises to help teams improve their
day-to-day teamwork and performance. The toolkit also
includes a self-facilitated team development process that
enables teams to discover and compare each other's
personality types. The development process helps teams
learn how they can improve the way they conduct meetings,
make decisions, and navigate conflicts. Our P&O business
partners were trained to act as internal consultants to
facilitate these workshops.
Participating in an international and diverse workforce
requires a working environment in which all employees feel
respected and included. After its successful launch in 2018,
we continued the global roll-out of our Inclusion & Diversity
workshop 'Brighter Together'. Over 600 employees from
across the company participated in one of these workshops
in 2019. The program also proved its resilience and
adaptability by inspiring a promising pilot run in Dyneema
for virtual high-performing teams.
In 2019, we added an e-learning on the topic of 'Respectful
Behavior' to our set of e-learnings that outline the
underlying principles of our 'Code of Business Conduct' on
page 113. This e-learning is mandatory for all employees
and creates more awareness of how we can treat each other
respectfully and therefore be more inclusive toward each
other.
A strong focus on teams also helps us attract external
talents. In 2019, we launched a new global referral program
in our key markets, making it faster, simpler and more
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 47 www.dsm.comrewarding for employees to refer high-quality and diverse
ta
lents from their network. This has led to a 10% increase
in global as opposed to only local market referrals.
Continuous Improvement in Operations
One of the ways we drive organizational performance is by
fost
ering high-performance teams and a culture of
continuous improvement in our manufacturing sites and
supply chain environments. This mindset is driven by the
DSM Integral Continuous Improvement (DICI) journey,
currently running at 92% of our Manufacturing and Supply
Chain organizations. Our premix locations are currently
excluded from the scope of this program.
The goal of DICI is to allow anyone in our organization to
make small improvements that can have a significant
impact on operations and our employee engagement,
thereby unleashing the talent in everyone. This journey
involves one common way of working, which enables us to
share experiences and learn across sites and businesses
and to drive a sustainable culture transformation less
sensitive to managerial and employee changes.
For example, in Delft (Netherlands), the shop floor designed
and developed digital tools and dashboards that providedthem with key insights. In addition, machine-learning
models pro
vided new opportunities to improve key
processes. This resulted in a significant step-up in the
performance of the plant and in the quality of work
processes while still meeting the increasing demands of
customers.
In Taiwan, the Site Steering Committee team initiated
several activities in which they likewise applied the mindset
and behavior approach of DICI, resulting in an improvement
in people development, interaction with other sites,
communication and transparency, and visual management.
The main learnings included having an open mind to other
people's opinions and building trust. This culminated in a
site-wide awards ceremony, bringing the whole site
together to celebrate these achievements and embed the
learnings.
We celebrated the successes in the DICI journey by
organizing the 2019 Continuous Improvement Awards. We
received 77 submissions, covering all business groups and
all continents. There were five winners, including the Delft
team mentioned above.
Presentation of awards to the Delft team in the 'Overall' category of the Continuous Improvement Awards.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 48 www.dsm.comReport by the Managing Board - People
Employee engagement
Our g o
al is that people feel proud to work at DSM and are
able to be and give their best, every day. We want them to
feel part of a team where every contribution matters, and
where we all can learn and grow. To measure this, we run
an annual Employee Engagement Survey. The survey results
provide important insights into how our employees
experience our company, and the impact their experience
has on their motivation, perceptions and performance.
The Engagement Index measures four attributes:
commitment, pride, advocacy and satisfaction.
In 2019, we migrated to a new survey provider and platform
but retained the same survey structure and content as in
2018, comprising questions on safety, engagement,
management, inclusion and other key themes. Feedback
from employees suggests that the new platform provides
a more positive user experience, and that they appreciate
the broader language options and faster feedback of results
to managers. The survey also included an option for
employees to provide text comments. More than 40,000
such comments were received.
The survey was sent to all employees (excluding
contractors) and was available in 21 languages. The 2019
response rate of 92% (up five percentage points versus 2018)
was the highest recorded since we began this annual survey
in 2007.
Overall employee engagement decreased by two
percentage points to 74%, driven by small decreases in each
of the four questions that make up the Engagement Index.
In general, the survey generated relatively stable responses;
however, we saw a significant decrease of five percentage
points in response to the question "I believe DSM has a
promising future". This could be attributable to employee
concerns regarding the challenging macroeconomic and
geopolitical environment in which we are currently
operating, but  will be further explored through the sessions
described below.
The safety index decreased by one percentage point,
however it remained the highest scoring index at 91%. There
was an increase in manager ratings of two percentage points
— a positive result for a focus area from the previous year.
Ratings for the Inclusion Index remained stable at 72%.
The survey results pointed out three areas for improvement:
inclusion, strategy and talent, which will be embedded into
company-wide programs during 2020.
Involving team members in understanding the survey
results and contributing to the design of improvement
actions is a key part of the annual Engagement Survey
process. Managers whose team provided more than eight
survey respondents were eligible to receive team survey
reports. In 2019, more than 1,600 reports were generated formanagers within a month of the survey closing. Local
enga
gement champions, people & organization colleagues
and communication colleagues provided training and
support to assist managers in sharing the results with their
teams, leading a dialogue, and agreeing actions for
improvements.
Following the dissemination of the results, in 2020 a number
of Executive Committee-led dialogue sessions will be
planned to gain deeper understanding of the employee
experience, and to further engage employees in shaping
improvement initiatives. These will include regional
dialogues with the executive leadership tier, and global-
level digital conversations open to all employees.
Culture
Throughout 2019, we began to roll out The DSM Ways of
Working c
ulture pillars, which we had communicated in
2018. As set out in last year's Report, we have committed to
three areas of culture and behavioral focus.
Customer passion means putting our customers first,
knowing them and making their success our business. To
achieve this, we invested in training and awareness through
management and performance-focused programs. These
programs combine development, empowerment,
technology and outside-in thinking to link customer needs
with our innovation capabilities.
Accountability and agility means delivering on our promises
and responding to challenges quickly. Across the company,
we are exploring an agile approach to working, through
examples such as a self-managed team at DSM-NIAGA and
agile pilot programs within our IT function. Based on some
of the focus group discussions in the regions during 2019,
accountability and agility became the central focal area of
our short- and medium-term cultural development agenda.
Inclusiveness means we value uniqueness and foster a
sense of purpose and belonging. Deepening engagement
within DSM shows us new ways of enhancing connectivity
and collaboration with all our stakeholders. The 'Brighter
Together' workshops, described above, continued to be
rolled out throughout 2019 and are designed to strengthen
inclusiveness in our teams. In addition, our Women Inspired
Network (WIN) chapters held events in the Netherlands,
the US and Switzerland, among other locations. In the
Netherlands for example, WIN hosted a lively and engaging
event in March, attracting 200 female and male colleagues
to a program that included speakers, a panel and an
interactive creative session. We continue to sponsor the
WINConference for women. In 2019, a group of 25 employees
attended a global, virtual leadership development program
'WIN for WIN', designed and facilitated by members of WIN.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 49 www.dsm.comResults at a glance
Planet
63%1
Sales of
Bright er Living Solutions
v
ersus 62%2 in 2018~17%
GHG scope 1 + 2 reduction —
cumul
ative structural
improvement3 versus ~8% in 2018
(baseline 2016)
50%
Purchased electricity
from r
enewable sources
versus 41% in 20182.3%
Energy efficiency impr o vement
year on year versus
1.4% in 2018A- rating
CDP C
limate,
rank
ed no. 1 in
Sustainalytics and MSCI
1For a small percentage of sales (approximately 2%) classified as
BLS, the environmental impact is considered 'best in class'
together with other solutions.
2Excluding the temporary vitamin effect in 2018 of € 415 million
sales, for further information, see table on page 65.
3We estimate that the effect of the underlying cumulative structural
improvements in absolute GHG emissions was approximately 17%
and 8% in 2019 and 2018 respectively, versus the 2016 baseline.
The total cumulative absolute reduction was 25% and 18%
respectively, versus the 2016 baseline.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 50 www.dsm.comReport by the Managing Board - Planet
We take our global environmental and social
responsibilities v
ery seriously. These extend beyond our
own operations to include those of our suppliers, customers
and end-users. We fulfill our environmental responsibilities
through our portfolio of Brighter Living Solutions, our
Safety, Health & Environmental (SHE) policy, and our
position on issues such as product stewardship and
biodiversity. We focus on:
- Improving our own environmental footprint
- Enabling our customers to do the same through
innovative solutions
- Advocating on our key environmental topics
Our Brighter Living Solutions — solutions that are better
than the mainstream reference solution for people and/or
the planet — account for 63% of our net sales.
Our operations network spans more than 110 commercial
production facilities in over 40 countries. Our operational
approach is led by the DSM Responsible Care Plan,
described below, and supports the Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs), especially SDG 7 (Affordable and
Clean Energy), SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption and
Production) and SDG 13 (Climate Action), among others. Our
approach also addresses several topics from our Materiality
matrix:
- Climate & Energy
- Resources & Circularity
- Water security
- Biodiversity
- Product stewardship
DSM Responsible Care Plan 2019–2021
In 2019, we brought the DSM Responsible Care Plan (DRCP)
in line with Strat
egy 2021. The DRCP defines our ambitions,
targets and actions in the fields of safety, health,
environmental footprint, value chain sustainability, climate
adaptation and security.
Our key environmental targets for the updated DSM
Responsible Care Plan 2019–2021 are our Science-Based
Targets, comprising a greenhouse gas (GHG) scope 1 + 2
emission absolute reduction of 30% and a GHG scope 3
intensity reduction of 28% by 2030 versus our 2016 baseline.
These were reviewed and approved by the Science Based
Targets initiative in early 2019, for more information, see
the company website. Our scope 1 + 2 target is supported by
our renewable electricity target — 75% of purchased
electricity to be sourced from renewables by 2030 — and our
annual average energy efficiency improvement of at least
1% through until 2030, and our scope 3 target is supported
by the CO2REDUCE program.Our additional targets are:
- W
ater: water risk assessments — 100% completed and
more than 90% of high-risk actions closed in 2020
- Water: maintain or improve our water consumption
efficiency
- Other emissions to air: show continued reduction in
volatile organic compounds (VOC) — resulting in a
reduction in our emissions intensity of more than 50%
by 2021 compared to 2015
We also set ourselves the ambition to develop the following
key plans during this DSM Responsible Care Plan period:
- Climate adaptation heatmaps covering the physical risks
of our material sites, by the end of 2020
- Water and waste reduction roadmaps in order to set
quantifiable, context-based reduction targets in the next
DRCP
- An action plan for all products containing substances
of high concern at a concentration higher than 0.1% by
the end of 2020 (excluding those products defined as
'essential for life')
For more detailed information about our Planet
performance, see 'Sustainability statements — Planet' on
page 151. See also 'How we create value for our
stakeholders' on page 30 and 'Stakeholder Engagement' on
page 152.
Climate & Energy
Aspiration 2019 2018
Greenhouse gas (GHG)
GHG emissions scope
1 + 2 absolut e r
eduction
versus 201630% in
2030 25% 18%
GHG emissions scope
1 + 2 mark et
-based
(million tons) 1.17 1.231
GHG emissions scope 3
(million t ons) 11.6 11.3
Energy
Primary energy use (PJ) 21.2 20.8
Final consumed energy
(PJ) 17.4 17.1
Energy efficiency
impro
vement
year on year > 1% 2.3% 1.4%
Purchased electricity
from r
enewable sources 75% in 2030 50% 4 1%
1 Including a one-time effect in 2018, estimated at approximately 150 kt.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 51 www.dsm.comIn 2015, the Paris Agreement fir st  established a common
ambition to take urgent action on GHG emissions to limit
average temperature increases to well below 2°C. Later in
2018, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)
provided a clear and compelling case to redouble efforts to
limit the warming to 1.5°C by 2100. Meeting the 1.5°C
ambition will require emissions of carbon dioxide to reach
net-zero by 2050, which involves rapidly accelerating the
rate of emission reduction over the coming decade.
We were one of the first companies to align our efforts with
the latest science as presented in the IPCC Special Report
'Global Warming of 1.5°C' by setting a long-term pathway to
reach net-zero GHG emissions across our operations and
value chains by 2050. Our Science Based Targets are our
foundation to achieve this goal, supported by our ambitions
on renewable electricity and energy efficiency, and through
working intensively with our key suppliers through our
CO2REDUCE program.
"I am proud that we were the first European company
in our sect
or to set Science Based Targets, including
an ambitious target on our scope 3 emissions, setting
us on course to achieve net-zero by 2050. Through our
Targets, we are proactively delivering on our
contribution to the Paris Agreement."
Feike Sijbesma, CEO/Chairman Managing Board
In support of our ambition to substantially reduce our
carbon f
ootprint, we have introduced new measures which
we apply to all growth projects. Starting from 2019, business
growth projects must either be GHG-neutral or else be
compensated for within the same business. In addition, to
encourage investments in low-carbon and carbon-free
technologies, we use an internal carbon price of € 50/t
CO2eq in the valuations of key investment projects and in
the Profit and Loss statements of the business groups for
internal management reporting. This increases the visibility
of, and encourages accountability for, the impact of carbon
on the business.
As a complement to our efforts on climate change
mitigation, we also work on an integrated strategy of climate
adaptation measures to improve the resilience of our assets
and supply chains against potential physical impacts of
climate change.
The climate action agenda brings together our key climate
actions addressing the three pillars of improve, enable and
advocate. The progress of the agenda, including the
implementation of the Taskforce on Climate-Related
Disclosures (TFCD) recommendations, and the GHG
reduction program are managed and actively reviewed bythe Executive Committee several times a year. Concrete
actions within the ag
enda are owned by individual
Executive Committee members. Through the agenda, we
ensure that the business opportunities relate to mitigation
and adaptation, and the identified transition and physical
risks of climate change are addressed. Our climate change
strategy received an A- rating from CDP in 2019.
In order to achieve the targeted absolute GHG reduction by
2030, we have started a dedicated program to help our key
locations implement appropriate energy transition and
energy efficiency measures. We identify GHG emission
reduction opportunities using performance diagnostics
that are carried out at all our main contributing sites. These
opportunities range from relatively easy-to-implement
modifications in operations and maintenance using Best
Available Technologies, to transitioning to renewable
energy sources. The identified opportunities are analyzed
and ranked, and the projects are implemented based on
their impact. A dedicated corporate budget is available to
our business groups for the execution of these GHG
reduction projects.
Scope 1 + 2 GHG emissions
Our scope 1 + 2 market-based GHG emissions improved
comp
ared to 2018, with total emissions of 1.17 million tons
CO2eq in 2019. Our baseline GHG emissions figure of 2016
of 1.50 million tons CO2eq was increased to 1.57 million tons
CO2eq, due to the inclusion of nine acquired sites in our
reporting scope in the period 2017–2019. Our GHG efficiency
(year-on-year) improved further to 12.7% in 2019.
Scope 1 + 2 emis sions  and estimated structural improvement
1.
571.571.501.50
1.231.231.171.17Scope 1 + 2 emissions
(million t ons)C
umulative structural
impr o
vement
2016¹ 2017 2018 2019012
0%10%20%
1 2016 baseline was increased due to the inclusion of nine acquired sites
The absolute reduction in scope 1 + 2 GHG emissions was
25% c omp
ared to the corrected baseline of 2016. We
estimate that of the 25% absolute reduction in scope 1 + 2
GHG emissions compared to baseline 2016, 17% is due to
structural improvements. This was mainly due to an
increase in purchased renewable electricity, the
implementation of significant GHG reduction measures,
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 52 www.dsm.comReport by the Managing Board - Planet
such as the start-up of the biomass plant in Sisseln
(Switz erl
and), and the closure of our less efficient power
plant in Jiangshan (Jiangsu Province, China). Absolute GHG
emissions are also impacted by business and portfolio
variations, and external factors such as grid emission
factors.
Energy transition
Our energy efficiency improvement (on primary energy) was
2.
3% versus 2018, above our target of an average annual
improvement of 1%. This result was due to product portfolio
changes and the implementation of improvement projects
at our key sites.
We implemented a range of reduction proposals from the
business groups, encompassing projects for saving heat,
fuel and electricity with an expected total of GHG
improvement potential of approximately 30 kt in GHG
reductions and 2% of energy efficiency savings annually.
Projects executed  in 2019 include  a project  in Belvidere  (New
Jersey, USA) where we replaced a large chiller installation
with a state-of-the-art version with much lower energy
consumption that uses a GHG-neutral refrigerant. Further
steps to reduce our energy consumption at this site are
ongoing. In a project at Jiangshan (Jiangsu Province, China)
we installed a membrane filtration system to concentrate
a product solution, thereby significantly reducing the
amount of steam needed for further concentration.
Renewable energy
We are a member of the Climate Group's RE100, comprising
le
ading companies that have committed to sourcing 100%
of their electricity from renewable sources at the earliest
possible opportunity. Our commitment is to source 75% of
our electricity from renewable sources by 2030 and 100% at
the earliest possible opportunity.
In 2019, we continued to make good progress toward our
target of purchased renewable electricity. The percentage
of purchased electricity from renewable sources increased
globally from 41% in 2018 to 50% in 2019, resulting in a ~60kt
CO2eq reduction for the year. In the Netherlands, our
portfolio of agreements continued to provide 100%
purchased electricity from wind parks to all locations. At our
DSM Nutritional Products manufacturing sites in
Switzerland, approximately 50% of the electricity currently
comes from hydropower. Following the first Power Purchase
Agreement in the US, which provides electricity from wind
power, we completed another Agreement in 2019 that will
become operational in 2022 to provide solar-powered
electricity. The production from the first Agreement
combined with pre-production renewable energy
certificates (RECs) from both Agreements resulted in around
69% coverage of purchased electricity from renewable
resources in North America in 2019, from an estimated 40%
in 2018.We also look for opportunities to replace heat from fossil
fuels on our premises. The bioma
ss cogeneration plant at
our DSM Nutritional Products site in Sisseln (Switzerland)
replaced the site's old natural gas-fired cogeneration plant
and is the first major success in this area. Our partners,
ENGIE and EWZ, own, operate and maintain the biomass
plant, which started production early 2019. This milestone
was celebrated at the grand opening in April, which was
attended by representatives from all partners and the local
authorities. The replacement results in 50 kt CO2eq
reduction per year (of which about 80% is for us and 20%
for the other partners).
Scope 3 GHG emissions
Scope 3 GHG Emissions
in CO2eq, million t
ons
9
.09.09.49.4
0.90.9 0.70.7 0.90.9 1.01.00.30.3 0.30.3 0.20.2 0.20.2Purchased goods & services
Other upstr
eam categories
E
nd-of-life treatmentIn
vestments
Other downstr
eam categories
20
18 201904812
Our absolute scope 3 GHG emissions amounted to
11.
6 million tons of CO2eq in 2019, which is 0.3 million tons
higher than 2018. The largest change in 2019 compared to
2018 was caused by an increase of emissions in the category
Purchased goods & services. This was attributable to
updated emission factors and changes in product mix.
The 2019 figures were calculated using updated product
emission factors. Updated values and changed assumptions
due to improved insights and supplier-specific situations
resulted in adjusted emission values. The main scope 3
categories in the 2019 figures remain Purchased goods and
services and End-of-life-treatment of sold products.
Science Based Targets
Our new Science Based Target for scope 3 is an intensity
reduction t
arget of 28% per unit of product in 2030 versus
the base year of 2016. The categories in scope for this Target
are Purchased goods and services, Upstream transportation
and distribution and Waste generated in operations. To
track the progress toward this intensity target, a detailed
tracking process was developed and will be fully
implemented in 2020.
A recalculation of the emissions for 2016 (the baseline year
for the Science Based Target) was made using improved
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 53 www.dsm.cominsights and updates of the most relevant emission factors
acc
ording to our defined standard. This recalculation covers
the categories in scope for the Target and will be used solely
for reporting performance against the Science Based Target.
Emissions for the year 2017 are not recalculated.
Progress on the Science Based Target for scope 3 will not be
reported for 2019 because the baseline has only just been
set, and any progress toward, or movement away from, our
target will be incidental. However, progress on structuring
supplier engagements has been significant and the
processes are in place to advise, track and report on
improvements.
CO2REDUCE supplier engagement program
Emissions related to Purchased goods & services are the
lar
gest contributor to our scope 3 emissions. A company-
wide supplier engagement program called CO2REDUCE was
designed and initiated at the end of 2018, involving multiple
key suppliers. The program aims to generate deeper insights
into the emission performance of our supplier base, identify
the GHG reduction options at key suppliers, and support
the collaboration needed to enable these initiatives. This
helps to reduce the transition risks in our supply chain. This
program was activated, accelerated and extended to the
suppliers and products that contribute the highest GHG
emissions in our value chain. Our Supplier Engagement
Rating on climate was given an A rating by CDP in 2019.
CO2REDUCE lessons learned and new supplier insights
resulted in an increased understanding of supplier
emission performance for key categories in our scope 3
emissions. With the scope 3 target in place and the
experience gained in 2019, we were able to increase our
focus on key steps in the program.
Firstly, good insight into supplier performance with respect
to GHG emissions is an important aid to identify strategic
procurement initiatives to lower the carbon emissions
portfolio. The first reduction options are emerging, and
supplier GHG performance has been integrated into the
procurement strategies of some key categories. Supplier
collaboration projects with key suppliers aimed at realizing
emission reduction projects are underway. Running projects
show several options to reduce GHG emissions through
supplier selection, efficiency improvements and the use of
renewable energy. One example is suppliers sourcing
renewable electricity based on best practices we shared
with them.
Secondly, the increased understanding gained in 2019
enabled each of our businesses to develop roadmaps for
the reduction of their scope 3 emissions. These roadmaps
help focus our efforts to realize the ambitious Science
Based Target for scope 3 and consist of a pipeline of
multiple additional projects, supplier engagementinitiatives, and sourcing strategies to fulfill our
sustainabilit
y ambitions.
Finally, we also develop products for the circular and bio-
based economy that contribute to further reducing our
scope 3 emissions. See 'Stakeholder engagement' on page
152 and 'Resources & Circularity' below.
Climate Adaptation
As an essential complement to our efforts to cut emissions,
we a
lso apply an integrated strategy of climate adaptation
measures. For example, to improve the resilience of our
assets and supply chains against potential physical impacts
of climate change, we are developing our physical risk
assessment. This involves mapping high-risk areas and
major sites for emerging hazards and long-term impacts
using different time horizons and climate scenarios.
Avoided emissions
Brighter Living Solutions can have benefits at any st age in
the value chain. 'Avoided emissions' refers to the emissions-
related environmental benefits that occur downstream in
the use phase of our products. While avoided emissions do
not count toward our own Science Based Targets, they result
in reduced emissions for our customers and end-users.
For example, DSM Engineering Plastics supplies products for
food packaging films requiring effective oxygen barrier
properties and high puncture resistance. These films play
an important role in reducing food waste by protecting food
during transport, retail and consumer use, and extending
shelf life. Reducing food waste diminishes the burden on
the food production system, leading to significant avoided
emissions. Products sold in this segment in 2019
contributed to an estimated avoided emission of 27,500 kt
CO2eq.
As another example, our powder coating resins can be used
to replace solvent-borne coatings in many applications,
allowing faster and more efficient curing, at lower
temperatures, with less waste. Powder coatings also remove
the need for solvents, leading to further reductions in GHG
and other emissions. In 2019, sales of powder coatings
avoided GHG emissions of approximately 520 kt CO2eq.
Other emissions to air
Aspiration 2019 2018
VOC efficiency
impro
vement versus
2015continuous
impro
vement 75% 48%
VOC (x 1,000 tons) 2.7 4.9
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 54 www.dsm.comReport by the Managing Board - Planet
Our r eporting on Other emissions to air focuses on VOCs, as
these ar
e the most significant emissions in this area. We
continue to report our NOx and SO2 emissions in the
Sustainability statements and via the company website;
however, these emissions are not material due to
improvement actions executed in the past. Our target is to
continuously reduce our Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC)
emissions, resulting in a more than 50% efficiency
improvement by 2021 — an increase on our previous
aspiration of 40% for the three emissions by 2020. In 2019,
we saw a large improvement in our VOC efficiency, mainly
due to the start-up of a VOC treatment plant in Jiangshan
(Jiangsu Province, China).
Resources & Circularity
Aspiration 2019 2018
Renewable raw
materials
Renewable raw
materia
ls 14.7% 14.3%
Waste
Waste recycled80–90%
in 20 20 88% 83%
Total process-related
wa
ste efficiency
improvementat least
maint ain 2.8% -
Non-hazardous waste
(kt) 138 971
Hazardous waste (kt) 85 81
Non-process related
wa
ste (kt) 5 27
1 The 2018 non-hazardous waste fig ur e has been restated due to a correction in
the calculations at two locations.
With the gl obal population having doubled over the past 50
y
ears, resource extraction has tripled, putting pressure on
the Earth's finite resources. At the same time, the Circularity
Gap Report 2019 finds that the global economy is only 9%
circular — in other words, just 9% of the 92.8 billion tons
of minerals, fossil fuels, metals and biomass that enter
the economy are re-used annually, and the trend is negative
— the gap is not closing. That is why we are committed to
securing the future availability of natural resources and
unlocking more value from the limited resources available.
By working closely together with our value chain, we
continue to develop closed-loop, circular solutions. As part
of our Resources & Circularity approach, we aim to improve
our own impact through resource efficiency improvements
and measures, to enable our customers to deliver
sustainable and circular solutions, and to advocate for the
transition to a circular, bio-based economy.
We enable our customers to transition toward a circular &
bio-based economy by focusing on five drivers:- Reduce the use of critic a l resources throughout the value
chain
- Replace scarce, hazardous, and potentially harmful
resources with safe and renewable alternatives
- Extend the lifetime of products by means of improved
durability or shelf-life
- Design for recyclability
- Recover waste streams by viewing waste as a resource
Renewable & secondary raw materials
Circularity includes replacing finite  fossil resources with
regenerative, renewable resources, as well as secondary
(recycled) materials. The use of such sustainable resources
is an essential step in securing future resource availability,
but can also have environmental benefits in reducing the
carbon footprint.
The renewable raw materials we use include waste from
agriculture, yeasts and enzymes, carbohydrates and natural
oils, and acids. In 2019, the share of our spend on renewable
raw materials increased from 14.3% in 2018 to 14.7%. The
percentage increase is due to an increase in spend on
glycerol, maltodextrin, and other carbohydrates.
We have a strong track record of sustainable innovations
and pioneering in bio-based solutions. This year, our
businesses again made a big step forward in driving the
transition toward a circular and bio-based economy.
One example is DSM Engineering Plastics, which announced
ambitious plans to introduce bio- and recycled-based
alternatives for its entire portfolio, to be completed by 2030.
In addition to existing bio-based grades including EcoPaXX®
and ForTii®Eco, we launched bio-based versions of both
Arnitel® and Stanyl® grades in 2019. Arnitel® is a
thermoplastic elastomer (TPE) with high temperature
resistance and is mainly used to replace rubber in
automotive, electronics and other industries. Stanyl® is a
high-temperature-resistant polyamide and the only
aliphatic polyamide in its class. The bio-based grades of
Arnitel® and Stanyl®, launched in 2019, deliver the same
functional and regulatory qualities as the conventional
grades and do not require any special handling equipment
or different processing steps. In this way, we are offering our
customers the chance to choose a sustainable future where
they can reduce their environmental impact without
compromising their products or processes. Similarly, both
DSM Resins & Functional Materials and DSM Dyneema have
also set their own circular and bio-based ambitions. For
more information, see 'Materials' on page 84.
An example of the use of secondary raw materials is
Akulon® RePurposed. We use discarded fishing nets to
produce this recycled-based polyamide. The nets are
collected, cleaned and sorted along the coastlines of India,
contributing to cleaner oceans, litter-free beaches and jobs
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 55 www.dsm.comfor local communities. The polyamide is used in high-end
applic ations in the sports and l
eisure segment (such as
surfboard accessories).
In the coming months and years, we will work with more
parties within the value chain — including our suppliers,
customers, collaborative partners and even competitors —
to lead the transition toward more circular and sustainable
materials.
See also our position paper on Sustainable Biomass on
the company website.
Waste
Our definition of wa ste recycled is the percentage of total
process-related waste that is recycled or, if this is not
possible, incinerated off-site with heat recovery. We pay
careful attention to meeting local waste management
legislation. We aim to maintain our percentage of recycled
waste in the range of 80–90%, which was achieved in 2019.
Waste breakdown by stream (in thousand tons)
Off-site recovery
Landfill
(Land)farmingOff-site incineration
without he at r
ecovery
Off-site incineration
with he at r
ecovery
Non-hazardous
wa
steHazardous waste Non-process
related waste050100150
Besides measuring our percentage of recycled waste, we
also
 pay attention to reducing our total amount of process-
related waste. In 2019, our total process-related waste
efficiency improvement was 2.8%. The overall increase in
process-related waste is due to the inclusion in our
reporting of new acquisitions, which are not included in
the efficiency calculations. We also managed to reduce our
total amount of hazardous waste to landfill by 12%, mainly
due to improvement activities at our site in Piura (Peru).
The significant decrease in non-process related waste from
27 kt in 2018 to 5 kt in 2019 was due to a large demolition
project conducted in 2018, whereby a large volume of waste
was sent for land reclamation. These effects did not occur
in 2019.Water security
Aspiration 2019 2018
Sustainable water
management
Water risk assessments100%
in 20 20 100% 100%
Closure of high-risk
rel
ated actions90% in
2020 39% 25%
Water consumption
efficiency impr o
vementat least
maint ain 4.0% -
Water consumption1
(million m3) 23 22
Water use (million m3) 111 114
Emissions to water
COD (kt) 2.1 2.2
1 Water consumption is calculated as water use minus once-through cooling.
Water is essential to life. It is also essential to the viability
of our business, and we r
ecognize that this precious
resource will come under increasing pressure in the face
of climate change and growing global demand. We are
committed to measuring, tracking and continually
improving our water stewardship as well as our position as
a global sustainability leader within the chemical sector. As
part of this commitment, we are a signatory of the CEO Water
Mandate, a UN Global Compact initiative that mobilizes
business leaders to advance water stewardship, sanitation,
and the Sustainable Development Goals, in partnership
with governments, peer institutions, civil society, and
others.
"Water security is a global issue impacting billions
of people and will onl
y grow in importance with a
changing climate. Water security continues to be a
material topic to DSM, and we will use this strategic
period to define additional relevant and contextual
water targets for the company. Through this Report,
we report our progress on water security toward the
UN Global Compact CEO Water Mandate."
Feike Sijbesma, CEO/Chairman Managing Board
We recognize water management as integral to our risk
mitigation and en
vironmental impact reduction strategies.
We believe that water risks are local by nature, and
therefore focus on local water risk assessments and
thorough follow-up of these. In 2019, we received a B rating
from CDP for our water governance and management
strategy. In 2019, we completed water risk assessments at
our new material water sites and we worked further on
mitigating actions in our high-risk areas. The main water
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 56 www.dsm.comReport by the Managing Board - Planet
risks identified r el ated to water quality and limitations in
local infrastructure. Current risk exposure to water scarcity
was identified as limited in the regions where we operate.
A longer-term water risk horizon will be considered in
conjunction with the physical risk assessments scheduled
for 2020.
Water intake and outflow (in million m3)
Once-through cooling
Surface water
Potable (tap) waterGround water
Total effluent
Water intake Water outflow80100120
Our water consumption efficiency impr oved by 4.0% versus
2018. This is partly due to the water-related benefits from
our energy efficiency improvement projects, such as steam
usage or chilling and cooling improvement projects. Our
water pollution reduction programs aim to reduce total
water pollution, mainly by cutting Chemical Oxygen Demand
(COD). Total COD was stable at 2.1 kt in 2019. We are also
investing in improving our water treatment facilities.
Biodiversity
2019 2018
Sites in or adjacent
to pr
otected areas 25% 66%
Sites in registered
prot
ected area 3% -
Biodiversity and healthy ecosystems are key conditions for
a sustainabl
e world. Each year, we identify and monitor
the protected areas in the vicinity of our sites and the
impact that our activities have on these. In 2019, we further
clarified our metric 'Sites in or adjacent to protected areas',
resulting in a decrease in this metric. The clarification is that
protected areas are formally recognized as such (for
example, through national legislation or Ramsar sites), and
that sites must directly border a protected area. Being in
the vicinity of one of these areas does not equate to directly
bordering it. We also improved our reporting, which
informed us that of the reported sites near high biodiversity,
3% of our sites are in, or contain portions of a registered
protected area. For more information, see our position
paper on Biodiversity on the company website.Product stewardship
Pr
oduct stewardship is an important pillar of our
sustainability strategy. We minimize and control possible
SHE risks that could be caused by the substances used in
our products throughout the value chain. The use of certain
chemicals can lead to health and environmental risks. We
believe that minimizing these risks goes together with the
creation of a circular economy, which is a key part of
Strategy 2021. Central to our vision on product stewardship
is a risk-based approach and the use of safer alternatives
whenever feasible, and always when required. For our
innovation portfolio, 'safe by design' is the leading principle
in the development of new and better products and
processes.
Last year, we started assessing our full product portfolio to
fulfill our ambition to have an action plan for all products
that contain more than 0.1% Substances of Very High
Concern by 2020. Substances in products that are
considered 'essential for life' (i.e., that have a proven
beneficial nutritional or pharmaceutical effect when used
at the officially recommended dose) are excluded from this
assessment.
An important source of information on health and
environmental hazards and risks of chemicals is the
database generated with the implementation of REACH in
Europe a decade ago. The quality of data that has been
submitted in good faith by industry was recently questioned
by the authorities. The European chemical industry
association consequently started a program to improve
the quality of the REACH dossiers. We were among the first
companies to sign the Declaration of Intent, and we started
the re-evaluation of the dossiers in which we are the lead
registrant.
For more information on product stewardship, see the
company website.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 57 www.dsm.comResults at a glance
Profit
-1%
Organic sales growth
ver
sus 20181+10%2
Adjusted EBITDA3 growth
v
ersus 20181 and versus a high
single-digit target
 +47%2
Adjusted net operating free cash
flow3 growth
v
ersus 20181 and versus an average
annual target of ~10%
21%
Innovation sales, in line with
our ambition of ~ 20%43%
Sales to high-growth economies,
in line with our ambition of ~ 4
5%
6.8%
Capital expenditure
(ca
sh-based) as a % of sales
versus 7.3%1 in 2018€ 764
Total net pr ofit
v
ersus € 1,0794 in 2018
(in millions)€ 2.40
Proposed5 dividend per or dinary
shar
e for 2019 versus € 2.30 for
2018€ 1,1442
Net debt versus € 113
end of 20 18 
(in millions)
1Excluding temporary vitamin effect in 2018 of € 415 million sales and € 290 million (Adjusted) EBITDA, for further information see table on page 65.
2Including the impact of IFRS 16, see table on page 164.
3For reconciliation to IFRS performance measures, see table on page 180.
42018 includes the temporary vitamin effect, for further information see table on page 65, and the book profit on the sale of DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals.
5Subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 58 www.dsm.comReport by the Managing Board - P r ofit
Overall financia l  results
In our strategic plan for the period 2019–2021, called Strategy
2021: Growth & Value - Purpose led, Performance driven, we
illustrate how we will evolve further toward being a
purpose-led, science-based company, operating in the
fields of Nutrition, Health, and Sustainable Living. Our
strong growth platform together with increased customer-
centricity and large innovation projects, will drive above-
market growth. Concurrently, we will continue our strong
focus on cost control and operational excellence, allowing
us to accelerate profit growth and cash generation. Organic
growth will be complemented by acquisitions,
predominantly in Nutrition given its growth potential,
resilience, strong leadership position and value creation
potential.
In Strategy 2021, we emphasize two headline financial
targets: high single-digit annual percentage increase in
Adjusted EBITDA and about 10% average annual increase
in Adjusted net operating free cash flow. We also highlighted
the ambitions underpinning these targets, for more
information, see 'Strategy 2021' on page 16.
This chapter includes an overview of the key financial
metrics of the company and our performance in 2019.
In 2019, we delivered on our financial targets with double-
digit growth in Adjusted EBITDA of 10% to € 1,684 million,
including 3% from IFRS 16, compared to the underlying
business in 2018. The strong EBITDA growth in the
businesses was also supported by our continued focus on
cost reduction and operational efficiency. Adjusted net
operating free cash flow increased by 47% to € 801 million
compared to the underlying business in 2018, including 10%
from IFRS 16.
Compared to the underlying business in 2018, Nutrition
delivered above-market sales growth, with organic sales up
2%, and high-single digit Adjusted EBITDA growth (12%,
including 3% from IFRS 16), despite challenging market
conditions in some of its end-markets. Materials recorded
lower volumes (down 5%), but demonstrated its earnings
resilience in persisting weak market conditions with an
almost stable Adjusted EBITDA (down 1%, including 1% from
IFRS 16).
The Adjusted EBITDA margins were 20.7% (including 0.5%
from IFRS 16) and 18.5% (including 0.2% from IFRS 16) for
Nutrition and Materials respectively, both up versus the
previous year in the underlying business and in line with
our strategic ambitions.
Our Return On Capital Employed (ROCE) from underlying
business was down 130 basis points, to 12.0% (including 30
basis points from IFRS 16), mostly driven by the impact of
acquisitions and the adoption of IFRS 16.Income statement and key data
x € million 201912018 Change
Net sales underlying
busines s 9,010 8,85222%
Net sales 9,010 9,267 -3%
Adjusted EBITDA
underl ying busines
s 1,684 1,532210%
Adjusted EBITDA 1,684 1,822 -8%
EBITDA 1,586 1,754 -10%
Adjusted operating
profit 1,075 1,345 -20%
Operating pr ofit 954 1,245 -23%
Adjusted net pr ofit
underl
ying business 830 769 8%
Adjusted net pr ofit 830 1,034 -20%
APM adjustments (66) 45
Net pr ofit 764 1,079 -29%
Net pr ofit attributable
t
o equity holders of
Koninklijke DSM N.V. 758 1,077 -30%
ROCE underlying
busines s (in %) 12.0 13.32
ROCE (in %) 12.0 16.8
Adjusted EBITDA margin
underl ying busines
s
(in %) 18.7 17.32
Adjusted EBITDA margin
(in %) 18.7 19.72
Adjusted net operating
free c
ash flow
underlying business 801 5452
Adjusted net operating
free c
ash flow 801 810
1 Including the impact of IFRS 16, see table on page 164.
2Ex
cluding temporary vitamin effect in 2018 of € 415 million sales and
€ 290 million (Adjusted) EBITDA, for further information see table on page 65.
One of our k e y focus areas remains the improvement in our
working capital as a percentage of total sales. At the end
of 2019, total working capital was € 1,852 million, compared
to € 1,674 million in 2018. The average total working capital
as a percentage of sales was 21.2%, compared to 18.7% in
2018, above our aspiration of 'below 20%', but fully driven by
the consolidation of acquisitions and exchange rate effects.
Including the estimated temporary vitamin effect of
€ 415 million on sales driven by the exceptional supply
disruption in the industry in 2018, our total sales were down
3% to € 9,010 million (compared to € 9,267 million in 2018).
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 59 www.dsm.comThe total Adjusted EBITDA was 8% lower at € 1,684 million
when c onsidering the t
otal estimated € 290 million
temporary vitamin effect of 2018. Our Total ROCE was 12.0%
(including 30 basis points from IFRS 16), down 480 basis
points from 16.8%.
Innovation plays an important role in driving both top-line
and bottom-line growth. With 21% innovation sales in 2019,
which we define as sales from products and solutions
introduced in the last five years, we are delivering against
our ambitious aspiration of around 20%. In 2019, we also
made progress on promising innovation projects that could
have a wider societal impact and drive future growth. These
include our Project Clean Cow, Veramaris®, Avansya,
Balancius® and Niaga®.
Net sales and Adjusted EBITDA
At € 9,010 million, net sales in 2019 were 2% higher than in
2018
 (€ 8,852 million excluding the temporary vitamin effect)
or 3% lower than total sales in 2018 (€ 9,267 million).
Underlying organic growth in 2019 was down by 1%
(including the temporary vitamin effect in 2018, total organic
growth was down by 5%). Volume development was rather
stable, while price/mix had a 1% negative effect on growthcompared to underlying sales in 2018. Exchange rate
fluctuations had a positive imp
act of 2%, and acquisitions
contributed another 1% to sales.
Total sales in 2019 were € 257 million lower, mainly due to
the temporary vitamin effect in 2018. Growth was achieved
in LATAM and India. All high-growth economies together
currently represent 43% of our sales (45% when Africa is
included), which is in line with 2018. The share of sales in
these economies as a proportion of our total sales gives us
a well-balanced global footprint.
The Adjusted EBITDA (Adjusted operating profit before
depreciation and amortization) increased by 10% or
€ 152 million, from € 1,532 million in 2018 (excluding the
temporary vitamin effect) to € 1,684 million in 2019. Part of
the increase is the impact of IFRS 16 of € 52 million.
Including the temporary vitamin effect, the Adjusted EBITDA
decreased by € 138 million. Adjusted EBIT (Adjusted
operating profit) rose from € 1,055 million in 2018 (excluding
the temporary vitamin effect) to € 1,075 million in 2019, up
2%. Including the temporary vitamin effect, this is a
decrease of 20%.
Net sales Adjusted EBITDA
x € million 2019 2018 % change 201912018 % change
DSM underlying business 9,010 8,85222% 1,684 1,532210%
DSM 9,010 9,267 -3% 1,684 1,822 -8%
Nutrition underlying business 6,028 5,72225% 1,250 1,117212%
Nutrition 6,028 6,137 -2% 1,250 1,407 -11%
Materials 2,746 2,913 -6% 509 512 -1%
Innovation Center 194 172 13% 22 8 175%
Corporate Activities 42 45 -7% (97) (105) -8%
1 Including the impact of IFRS 16, see table on page 164.
2Ex
cluding temporary vitamin effect in 2018 of € 415 million sales and € 290 million (Adjusted) EBITDA, for further information see table on page 65.
Net pr ofit
Adjust
ed net profit of € 830 million was up versus the
underlying business in 2018. Net profit attributable to equity
holders of DSM decreased by € 319 million to € 758 million.
This decrease was mainly a result of the higher Adjusted
underlying EBITDA (up € 152 million, including € 52 million
attributable to the IFRS 16 effect), the temporary vitamin
effect of € 290 million in 2018, and the gain of € 109 million
on the disposal of our 50% share in DSM Sinochem
Pharmaceuticals in 2018. Expressed per ordinary share, net
earnings amounted to € 4.27 in 2019 (2018: € 6.10).
Financial income and expense decreased by € 9 million year
on year to € 92 million. This was mainly caused by positive
results on derivatives.The reported effective tax rate over Adjusted taxable result
2019
 was 18.2% (2018: 17.4%). This increase was mainly
caused by the impact of increased tax rates.
Adjustments made in arriving at DSM's Alternative
performanc
e measures (APM adjustments)
Total APM adjustments for the full year amounted to a loss
of € 66 million (20
18: profit of € 45 million), consisting of a
loss in EBITDA of € 98 million (including restructuring costs
of € 68 million), impairments of € 23 million, a related tax
benefit of € 27 million and a profit of € 28 million relating to
associates and joint ventures (mainly related to the step-
up to the fair value of Andre Pectin prior to the acquisition).
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 60 www.dsm.comReport by the Managing Board - P r ofit
Net sales by destination
in %
2019 20184
23
7
23121233103 4
24
7
22121233103Netherlands
Rest of Western Europe
Eastern
Eur
ope
North America
Latin AmericaChina
India
Japan
Rest of Asia
Rest of the world
Net sales by business segment
in %
2019 2018
673021
663220Nutrition
MaterialsInnovation Center
Corporate Activities
Net sales bridge 2019
x € million
Full year
20
18Temp. 
vitamin
effect 2018Volume Price/
mixFX Other Full year
20
199,0109,267
-5%
2% 0%-1%1%Net sales by origin
in %
2019 201824
30
2178111241
25
3621561011
31Netherlands
Rest of Western Europe
Eastern
Eur
ope
North America
Latin AmericaChina
India
Japan
Rest of Asia
Rest of the world
Net sales by end-use market
in %
2019 201811
9
5
4
3457531711
12
5
4
34675016Food & Beverages
Dietary Supplements
Early Life Nutrition
Personal Care
Animal NutritionMetal/building & construction
Automotive/transport
Electrical/electronics
Medical Pharma
Other
Adjusted EBITDA margin
in %
22.
922.9
17.617.619.719.7 19.519.5
17.617.6 17.317.320.720.7
18.518.5 18.718.72018 Total
20
18 Underlying business20
19
Nutrition Mat
erials Total0510152025
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 61 www.dsm.comCash flow st at ement
x € million 201912018
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 1,281 899
Cash flow pr o vided by operating activities 1,385 1,391
Cash from / (used in) investing activities (525) (605)
Cash from / (used in) financing activities (1,332) (401)
Effect of exchange differences (9) (3)
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 800 1,281
1 Including the impact of IFRS 16, see table on page 164.
Cash flow of € 1,385 million provided by operating activities
mainl
y consists of the EBITDA for the year (€ 1,586 million)
less various cash-out items including income tax of
€ 140 million and defined benefit plans of € 39 million. Our
focus on cash flow resulted in a full-year operating cash
flow of € 1,385 million, similar to the level of 2018, which was
driven by the one-time vitamin effect in that year. Excluding
this 2018 effect, the cash from operating activities increased
by € 259 million, or 23%, mainly due to the increase in the
underlying EBITDA. See also 'Consolidated financial
statements' on page 171.
The cash used in investing activities included capital
expenditure (€ 627 million) and acquisitions (€ 556 million),
partly offset by the decrese in fixed-term deposits
(€ 588 million).
The cash used in financing activities consisted mainly of
the repayment of the corporate bond (€ 300 million),
dividend paid (€ 291 million) and the repurchase of shares
(€ 869 million).
For the full cash flow statement, see Note 26 'Notes to the
cash flow statement' on page 223.
Balance sheet
The balance sheet total (total assets) reached € 13.4 billion
at ye
ar-end (2018: € 13.6 billion). Equity was rather stable,
with an increase of € 20 million compared to the position atthe end of 2018. The net result and reissue of shares more
or les
s balanced out with the dividend and repurchase of
shares. Equity as a percentage of total assets increased from
57% to 58%.
Compared to year-end 2018, net debt increased by
€ 1,031 million to € 1,144 million. The gearing at year-end was
12.7%, an increase compared to 1.4% at year-end 2018.
Capital expenditure on intangible assets and property, plant
and equipment amounted to € 623 million in 2019
(€ 609 million on a cash basis), which was in line with the
level of amortization and depreciation.
Total working capital amounted to € 1,852 million compared
to € 1,674 million at year-end 2018. This represents 21.5% as
a percentage of annualized fourth quarter 2019 sales (2018:
19.0%), which is above our aspiration of 20%. Cash-wise,
the operating working capital (OWC) decreased by
€ 52 million, mainly due to lower cash-out for inventories.
The OWC percentage increased from 24.2% at year-end 2018
to 26.3% of annualized sales at year-end 2019.
Cash and cash equivalents came to € 800 million at the end
of the year; including current investments, this amounted
to € 1,488 million (2018: € 2,558 million). Besides the regular
cash flow elements, this decrease was mainly due to
acquisitions (€ 556 million), the repayment of the bond
(€ 300 million) and the repurchase of shares (€ 869 million).
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 62 www.dsm.comReport by the Managing Board - P r ofit
Balance sheet pr ofil e
201912018
x € million in % x € million in %
Intangible assets 3,515 26 3,090 23
Property, plant and equipment 4,040 30 3,511 26
Other non-current assets 664 5 730 5
Cash and cash equivalents 800 6 1,281 9
Other current assets 4,424 33 5,029 37
Total assets 13,443 100 13,641 100
Equity 7,835 58 7,815 57
Provisions 168 1 153 1
Other non-current liabilities 3,325 25 3,139 23
Other current liabilities 2,115 16 2,534 19
Total equity and liabilities 13,443 100 13,641 100
1 Including the impact of IFRS 16, see table on page 164.
“ We delivered a good
financia l
 performance and
achieved key milestones
in the first year of Strategy
2021. We are focused on
growth, costs and
operational excellence
initiatives across the
company to offset a
challenging
macroeconomic
environment.  ”
Geraldine Matchett, Co-CEOOutlook 2020
DSM e
xpects to deliver a mid-single digit increase in
Adjusted EBITDA for 2020 compared to prior year, together
with an improvement in Adjusted net operating free cash
flow in line with our Strategy 2021 targets. This outlook is
driven by DSM's own growth initiatives, innovation programs
and self-help actions, and does not assume any significant
improvement to the current macroeconomic environment.
With regard to any potential impact of the Coronavirus, DSM
will monitor the situation closely.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 63 www.dsm.comKey business fig ur es at a glance
Our activities are grouped in three clusters: Nutrition, Materials and Innovation Center. We report separately on Corporate
Activities. Results presented in this section (and elsewhere in this Report) relate to consolidated activities only (therefore
non-consolidated partnerships are excluded).
Net sales
x € million 2019 20182
Nutrition 6,028 5,722
Materials 2,746 2,913
Innovation Center 194 172
Corporate Activities 42 45
Total 9,010 8,852
Adjusted EBITDA
x € million 2019120182
Nutrition 1,250 1,117
Materials 509 512
Innovation Center 22 8
Corporate Activities (97) (105)
Total 1,684 1,532
Adjusted EBITDA margin
in % 2019120182
Nutrition 20.7 19.5
Materials 18.5 17.6
Total 18.7 17.3Adjusted operating pr ofit  (EBIT)
x € million 2019120182
Nutrition 881 821
Materials 363 383
Innovation Center (19) (14)
Corporate Activities (150) (135)
Total 1,075 1,055
Capital employed at 31 December
x € million 201912018
Nutrition 6,731 5,683
Materials 1,927 1,878
Innovation Center 616 597
Corporate Activities 37 23
Total 9,311 8,181
ROCE
in % 2019120182
Nutrition 13.9 14.7
Materials 18.6 20.6
Total 12.0 13.3
1 Including the imp act of IFRS 16, see table on page 164.
2 Excluding temporary vitamin effect in 2018 of € 415 million sales and € 290 million (Adjusted) EBITDA, for further information
see table below.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 64 www.dsm.comReport by the Managing Board - P r ofit
Capital expenditure
x € million 2019 2018
Nutrition 420 463
Materials 139 132
Innovation Center 34 32
Corporate Activities 30 26
Total, accounting based 623 653
Non-cash items 4 2
Customer funding (18) (9)
Total, cash based 609 646
In % of net sales 6.8 7.31
1 Excluding temporary vitamin effect in 2018.
R&D expenditure (including associated IP expenditure)
x € million as % of net sales
2019 2018 2019 20181
Nutrition 218 206 3.6 3.6
Materials 124 122 4.5 4.2
Innovation Center 70 67 36.0 38.9
Corporate Activities 4 3 10.8 7.1
Total 416 398 4.6 4.5
1 Excluding temporary vitamin effect in 2018.
Workforce at 31 December
headcount 2019 2018
Nutrition 14,599 13,628
Materials 4,762 4,643
Innovation Center 726 701
Corporate Activities 2,087 2,005
Total 22,174 20,977Temporary vitamin effect 2018
x € millionAnimal
Nutrition
& He a
lthHuman
Nutrition
& He a
lthTotal
Nutrition1Total
DSM2
Net sales 3,134 2,019 6,137 9,267
One-time
vitamin eff
ect 385 30 415 415
Sales from
underl ying
busines
s 2,749 1,989 5,722 8,852
Adjusted EBITDA 1,407 1,822
One-time
vitamin eff
ect 290 290
Adjusted EBITDA
underl ying
busines
s 1,117 1,532
Adjusted operating
profit
 (EBIT) 1,111 1,345
One-time vitamin
effect 290 290
Adjusted operating
profit
 (EBIT)
underlying
business 821 1,055
Adjusted net
operating fr
ee cash
flow 810
One-time vitamin
effect 265
Adjusted net
operating fr
ee cash
flow underlying
business 545
1 Including other Nutrition businesses not impacted by the vitamin effect.
2Including other DS
M businesses not impacted by the vitamin effect.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 65 www.dsm.comResults at a glance
Nutrition
€ 6,028
Net sales versus € 5,7221 in 20 18
(in millions)+2%
Organic sales growth
ver
sus 2018120.7%2
Adjusted EBITDA3 margin
v
ersus 19.5%1 in 2018 and
versus a >20% ambition
#1
Supplier of vitamins, nutritional
lipids, c ar
otenoids, nutraceutical
ingredients and custom nutrient
premixes~15
Million consumers serviced
annua ll
y by our i-Health
B2C business46
Animal nutrition premix facilities
plus 15 human nutrition pr emix
f
acilities
>70%
Of our skin care portfolio is more
than 90% of natur a
l origin#1
Supplier of lactase enzymes for
lact
ose-free dairy
1Excluding temporary vitamin effect of € 415 million sales and
€ 290 million (Adjusted) EBITDA, for further information see table
on page 65.
2Including the impact of IFRS 16, see table on page 164.
3For reconciliation to IFRS performance measures, see table on page
180.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 66 www.dsm.comReview of business - Nutrition
x € million 201912018
Total Total Underlying
busines s2
Net sales:
DSM Nutritional
Pr
oducts:
- Animal Nutrition &
Hea
lth 2,892 3,134 2,749
- Human Nutrition &
Hea
lth 2,046 2,019 1,989
- Personal Care &
Aroma Ingr
edients 425 382 382
- Other393 112 112
5,456 5,647 5,232
DSM Food Specialties 572 490 490
Total 6,028 6,137 5,722
Organic sales growth
(in %) 2 14 7
Adjusted EBITDA 1,250 1,407 1,117
Adjusted operating
profit 881 1,111 821
Capital expenditure 420 463 463
Capital employed at
31 Dec
ember 6,731 5,683 5,683
ROCE (in %) 13.9 19.9 14.7
Adjusted EBITDA margin
(in %) 20.7 22.9 19.5
R&D expenditure 218 206 206
Workforce at
31 Dec
ember
(headcount) 14,599 13,628 13,628
1 Including the impact of IFRS 16, see table on page 164.
2Ex
cluding temporary vitamin effect, see table on page 65.
3 Other covers pharma and custom manufacturing & services activities.
Business
Our Nutrition cluster comprises DSM Nutritional Products
and DS M F
ood Specialties. This cluster provides solutions
for animal feed, food & beverages, pharmaceuticals, early
life nutrition, nutrition improvement, dietary supplements
and personal care. Our company is positioned in all steps
of the respective value chains: the production of pure active
ingredients, their incorporation into sophisticated forms
and the provision of tailored premixes, forward solutions
and branded consumer products. Our unique portfolio of
products and services is global and highly diversified,
serving customers and other stakeholders locally across
various end-markets around the world.Nutrition cluster performance
Net sales bridge 2019
x € million
Full year
20
18Temp. 
vitamin
effect 2018Volume Price/
mixFX Other Full year
20
196,0286,137
-7%
2%2%1%
0%
During the fir st  nine months of 2018, the industry
experienced an exceptional supply disruption. This event
provided additional sales of € 415 million and a
corresponding Adjusted EBITDA of € 290 million in the first
nine months of 2018, as estimated and reported last year.
'Underlying business' is defined as the sales and Adjusted
EBITDA, corrected for this temporary vitamin effect. 
Nutrition reported total sales of € 6,028 million in 2019, up
from € 5,722 million in the underlying business in 2018.
Adjusted EBITDA was € 1,250 million, up 12% from
€ 1,117 million in the underlying business in 2018. The
Adjusted EBITDA margin was 20.7%, up from 19.5% in the
underlying business in 2018.
In 2019, Nutrition reported sales up 5% compared to 2018.
Nutrition delivered 2% organic growth, which was volume-
driven. Additionally, it recorded 1% from the consolidation
of Andre Pectin and 2% from exchange rate effects driven
by the US dollar. Nutrition delivered a good performance,
with a solid performance in Animal Nutrition & Health, a
softer one in Human Nutrition & Health, and a strong one
in Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients and DSM Food
Specialties.
Trends
The world is facing an increasing number of food-related
hea
lth issues and challenges. According to the UN Food and
Agriculture Organization (FAO), more than 820 million
people go to bed hungry each night. The International Food
Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) meanwhile estimates that
approximately two billion people suffer from hidden hunger
— meaning that their diet lacks sufficient micronutrients
such as vitamins and dietary minerals. IFPRI additionally
puts the number of adults and children who are obese or
overweight at more than 2.3 billion.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 67 www.dsm.comWith our nutritional solutions, we are well positioned to
activel
y combat malnutrition in all its forms: undernutrition,
micronutrient deficiency (hidden hunger), overweight,
obesity and the double burden of malnutrition (the
coexistence of micronutrient deficiency with overweight
and obesity), as well as diet-related non-communicable
diseases (NCDs). We have established numerous
partnerships in this field, including those with the UN World
Food Programme (WFP), UNICEF, Vitamin Angels and World
Vision. We are also addressing malnutrition through the
humanitarian organization Sight and Life and our dedicated
Nutrition Improvement business segment — specialized in
supplementation programs and the fortification of staple
foods and therapeutic or emergency foods with essential
vitamins and minerals in developing countries.
Mounting research over the past few decades continues to
highlight the role nutrition plays during early life and its
effect on life-long health. The first 1,000 days between the
onset of a woman's pregnancy and her child's second
birthday offer a unique window of opportunity for nutrition
to shape healthier futures. Women hoping to become
pregnant, pregnant women, infants and children must
receive the necessary nutrients at appropriate levels to help
set them on a path to a long, healthy life. Our Essentials For
Early Life Solutions aim to ensure proper nutrition of
parents-to-be, pregnant and nursing women, and young
children, from preconception through the first 1,000 days
of life.
Whereas earlier generations struggled primarily with the
threat of communicable diseases such as tuberculosis,
cholera and plague, non-communicable diseases are now
the number one cause of death worldwide, accounting for
70% of all mortalities. These include cardiovascular disease,
type 2 diabetes and cancer. Research increasingly identifies
unhealthy and/or unbalanced diets as a major contributor
to many NCDs. Intermediate indicators that can be related
to an increased risk of NCDs are elevated levels of markers
such as increased blood pressure, Body Mass Index (BMI)
and high blood glucose. Balanced nutrition plays a role in
keeping these indicators at healthy levels, hence helping to
reduce the risks of NCDs. Besides solutions to reduce sugar
and salt in processed foods, including EverSweetTM and
Maxarome®, we also produce products such as OatWell®,
a nutritional ingredient that harnesses the scientifically-
proven health benefits of oat beta-glucan to reduce
cholesterol levels.
The World Health Organization (WHO) predicts that
antimicrobial resistance (AMR) will overtake NCDs by 2050
as the world's leading cause of death. WHO defines AMR as
"the ability of a micro-organism (such as bacteria, viruses,
and some parasites) to stop an antimicrobial (such as
antibiotics, antivirals and antimalarials) from working
against it". AMR is on the increase due to the over-prescription of antibiotics, the continued use of antibiotics
in some livest
ock farming operations, and the release of
antibiotics into the environment from pharmaceutical
factories. At DSM, we address the topic of AMR and the
responsible use of antibiotics in livestock production
through our broad portfolio of nutritional products, such as
our eubiotics for gastrointestinal functionality.
Environmental scientists warn that we are on the verge of
breaching several planetary boundaries if we do not change
our food system, risking people's livelihoods and the ability
to produce the food for all. The planetary boundaries
include the Earth's limits of greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions, biochemical flows, water quality and quantity,
land use, and biodiversity. The agri-food sector is one of
the major contributors to global GHG emissions, and almost
a third of wild fisheries are overexploited.
We work with customers and other stakeholders to deliver
more sustainable solutions that have less impact on the
environment. With a growing population and growing
middle class, we will see a rising demand for animal protein
such as dairy, meat, eggs and fish, with a clear regional
differentiation. Building on our strengths in animal
nutrition science and sustainability, we have identified six
business drivers to enable the sustainable growth of animal
protein production for healthy diets within planetary
boundaries. The business drivers comprise improving the
lifetime performance of farm animals; making efficient use
of natural resources; reducing emissions from livestock;
helping tackle antimicrobial resistance; reducing our
reliance on marine resources; and improving the quality of
meat, milk, fish and eggs while reducing food loss and
waste. For example, our enzymes help animals digest more
efficiently and extract more nutritional value from the feed.
They therefore still grow well even when consuming less. As
a result, fewer natural resources, such as land and water,
are needed for animal protein production.
In parallel to the growing demand for foods and beverages
based on animal protein, there is a growing trend —
especially in the Western world — in favor of natural and
plant-based foods, such as meat and dairy alternatives. We
have developed a Meat Alternatives Taste Toolbox based on
natural yeast extracts, process flavors and hydrocolloids
that deliver the savory, salty and umami flavor, and the fatty
mouthfeel that consumers favor and expect from meat
alternatives.
Sustainability & Innovation
Sustainability is one of the key drivers of our Nutrition
cluster
. Our nutrition businesses support many of the UN
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), especially SDGs 2,
3, 12 and 13.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 68 www.dsm.comReview of business - Nutrition
We ar e proud of our strategic partnership with the UN World
F
ood Programme (WFP), which we extended in 2018 for
another three years. We have partnered with WFP since 2007
to develop cost-effective, sustainable and nutritious food
solutions for those in need. Today, the UN World Food
Programme (WFP) reaches 35 million beneficiaries annually
with food that is improved by the DSM-WFP partnership.
Thanks to our expertise in nutrition and food fortification,
WFP has improved its food basket and developed more
nutritious food products for disadvantaged people around
the world. These products include Super Cereal and Super
Cereal Plus (complementary foods), ready-to-use
supplementary foods, high-energy biscuits, micronutrient
powders such as MixMe™, and fortified rice. We also provide
funding for WFP's operations and motivate employees to
engage in fundraising campaigns and awareness-raising
initiatives for WFP's school meal programs. Finally, we
combine our strengths to put local networks in place that
ensure sustainable and increased access to more nutritious
food as an essential part of healthy diets. Together, we are
helping people survive and thrive.
In addition to our work on hunger, malnutrition, health and
well-being, our innovations are increasingly focused on
improved sustainability throughout the product lifecycle,
and the value this can bring to customers and society at
large.
For example, after a successful launch last year in the
Americas, in 2019 we introduced Balancius®, a broiler feed
ingredient that helps to facilitate digestion and the
absorption of nutrients from the diet, in Europe and Asia-
Pacific. This solution helps farmers to get more from their
feed and to reduce GHG emissions.
We also made significant progress in Veramaris, our joint
venture with Evonik to produce the omega-3 fatty acids EPA
and DHA from natural marine algae as an alternative to fish
oil. This innovation helps to reduce the pressure on wild fish
stocks, helps the aquaculture industry to sustainably meet
the rapidly growing global demand for seafood, and enables
the production of healthier fish for the consumer.In 2019, we also continued our work on Project Clean Cow,
our feed additiv
e that helps to reduce methane emissions
from cows by at least 30%. Methane is a potent greenhouse
gas that makes a significant contribution to climate change.
Ruminants such as cows are responsible for approximately
27% of anthropogenic methane emissions globally. In 2019,
we filed for EU market authorization under the product
name Bovaer®. Registrations in other regions are to follow.
The product will be available in Europe as soon as EU
authorization is granted.
We accelerated our large innovation project for
fermentative Stevia in 2019 by establishing a 50:50
partnership with Cargill called Avansya and starting the
commercial-scale production of EverSweet™. EverSweet™ is
a zero-calorie, great-tasting, cost-effective sweetener that
can replace sugar in foods and beverages.
Governments around the world are focusing increasingly on
the environmental footprint of their domestic industries.
In recent years, China in particular has tightened the
enforcement of its environmental regulations, also known
as its 'Blue Skies' policy. This policy addresses air, soil and
water pollution and sets significantly higher standards than
before, including those standards applicable to China's
vitamin manufacturers. Over time, the result is a more level
playing field for non-Chinese competitors versus these
manufacturers.
As part of our ongoing commitment to quality, safety,
sustainability and production efficiencies, we made further
upgrades to our vitamin C facility in Jiangshan (Jiangsu
Province, China). Vitamin C from Jiangshan was already the
lowest carbon footprint vitamin C in China thanks to this
continuous investment program. Another example of our
sustainability efforts is the opening of a new green co-
generation plant in Sisseln (Switzerland) together with
energy company ENGIE and Swiss energy provider EWZ,
reducing CO2 emissions by 50,000 tons per year. For more
information, see 'Renewable energy' on page 53.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 69 www.dsm.comAerial view of the biomass plant at the DSM Sisseln site (Switzerland), April 2019.
Strategy
We 
have built a unique, highly integrated, global and broad
nutritional and other specialty ingredient solutions
business in food & beverages, animal feed and personal
care, meeting differentiated local needs through our
unparalleled network. We possess a diverse and significant
premix footprint, with superior formulations and delivery
systems, helping to drive sustainable nutritional and health
solutions. This infrastructure is fueled by our complete
portfolio of nutritional ingredients, which includes
vitamins, nutritional lipids, carotenoids, dietary minerals,
eubiotics, enzymes and yeasts, as well as texturants, flavors
and cultures. This diversity and level of integration creates
a resilient portfolio with limited exposure to single products
or customers, while benefiting from the opportunities
provided by global megatrends.
Focused on Nutrition & Health, we will continue to aim for
above-market growth and an Adjusted EBITDA margin
greater than 20% by 2021. We will complement organic
growth with inorganic growth opportunities that broaden
our portfolio and enhance our ability to provide customized
solutions. At the same time, we will further build on the
successful initiatives of Strategy 2018, increasingly placing
the customer at the center of everything we do and
achieving commercial excellence, while delivering large,
sustainability-driven, innovation projects.
We made good progress on the inorganic growth front. In
2019, we increased our shareholding in Andre Pectin (China)from 29% to 75%. Andre Pectin is Asia's largest producer of
apple and citrus pectin, h
ydrocolloids providing texture
solutions for food, beverages and personal care, with
premier access to the world's fastest-growing specialty food
ingredients market. To further strengthen our position in
personalized nutrition, we acquired AVA (USA), offering a
personalized nutrition platform that provides nutrition and
coaching recommendations across a wide range of health
and wellness segments. We also acquired Royal CSK
(Netherlands), combining complementary strengths to
better serve DSM's largest food & beverage segment: the
fast-growing and attractive dairy cultures markets.
We created the 75:25 partnership, Yimante (Hubei Province,
China), with Nenter in 2019. Through this partnership, we
strengthened our vitamin E position: it will provide us with
cost-effective access to additional capacity, allowing us to
continue to grow organically in vitamin E, which is an
essential ingredient in our animal nutrition premix
solutions.
In terms of our large, sustainability-driven, innovation
projects, we also advanced well with Project Clean Cow
(under the product name Bovaer®), Veramaris®, Avansya
and Balancius®. Many other examples of new innovations
and solutions can be found throughout this chapter.
Animal Nutrition & Health
Building on the results of our programs as part of Strategy
2018,
 we will continue to seek to deliver above-market sales
growth through:
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 70 www.dsm.comReview of business - Nutrition
- Marketing & sales excellence, especially building
specia list c
apabilities to address wider species
opportunities and pursue new health solutions
- Customer-centricity and agility, to place the customer at
the heart of everything we do, by improving the end-to-
end experience for the customer
- Further investing in our direct business-to-farmer
offering (e.g., in China) and overall go-to-market
capabilities
In addition, we pursue radical innovation for core
sustainability topics, all of which seek to deliver long-term
solutions for the industry with the potential to create
significant value for our company and our customers. With
examples such as algal-based omega-3 for fishfeed
(Veramaris®) and methane-reducing feed additives for
cows (Project Clean Cow), we position ourselves at the
forefront to benefit from global megatrends.
Human Nutrition & Health
Building on the success of the first  two parts of the LiftOff!
Program as part of Strategy 2018, we will step up further
during the implementation of Strategy 2021 with increased
focus on customer-centricity and commercial excellence to
drive above-market organic growth through:
- Focusing on customer-centricity and agility, seeking to
move closer to the customer by strengthening the value
propositions of our products and services, improving
end-to-end customer experiences, and enhanced
innovation and application capabilities
- Continuing to invest in business-to-consumer to ensure
the growth of i-Health beyond the US, as well as further
developing and building our personalized nutrition
platform
In addition, we will continue to pursue inorganic growth
opportunities in food & beverages as well as dietary
supplements, to enhance and complement our already
strong market positions.
An example of progress includes our continued investment
in the breadth of our capabilities to support our customers'
growth, with the establishment of Innovation & Application
Centers in Isando (South Africa) and in Cairo (Egypt) in 2019.
These are designed to stimulate and accelerate co-
innovation with customers worldwide.
Partnerships
We have many partnerships that support and accelerate
innov
ation in Nutrition. In Animal Nutrition & Health we
have, for example, The Alliance of DSM and Novozymes,
combining the world-leading competencies and
technologies of the two companies to deliver feed enzyme
innovation to the customers. The Alliance is the globalmarket leader in feed enzymes. Another partnership is
Ver
amaris, our 50:50 joint venture with Evonik with its
breakthrough innovation — an algal oil — that, for the first
time, enables the production of the omega-3 fatty acids EPA
and DHA for aquaculture without using fish oil from wild-
caught fish.
In Human Nutrition & Health, one example is Avansya, our
partnership with Cargill to bring sustainably produced,
great-tasting zero-calorie, cost-effective sweeteners to
market faster. In personalized nutrition, we partner with
companies such as Panaceutics and Wellmetrix. Combining
their competences with our world-class nutrition science,
products and solutions, we aim to be the partner of choice
for dietary supplements as well as food & beverage brand
owners that wish to offer personalized and healthy
nutrition.
In early December, we also announced a brand new
partnership in our Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients
business: an exclusive, global strategic collaboration with
METEX NØØVISTA, a subsidiary of biological chemistry
company METabolic EXplorer, to deliver a 100% bio-sourced
and sustainably produced, multifunctional ingredient for
skincare products.
DSM Nutritional Products
DSM Nutritional Products consists of Animal Nutrition &
Hea
lth, Human Nutrition & Health and Personal Care &
Aroma Ingredients. In 2018, an exceptional supply
disruption in the industry positively impacted our sales. We
estimated a temporary vitamin effect of € 415 million
additional sales in 2018, mainly in Animal Nutrition &
Health. The following sections compare results in the
underlying business, so excluding this temporary vitamin
effect. In 2019, DSM Nutritional Products reported sales of
€ 5,456 compared to € 5,232 million in the underlying
business in 2018.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 71 www.dsm.com“ In 2019, we achieved good
sa
les and earnings growth
across our Nutrition
cluster and took a big step
toward market launch of
our radical innovation
projects in our Animal and
Human Nutrition
businesses. ”
Chris Goppelsroeder, DSM Executive Committee and
President & CEO DSM Nutritional Products
Animal Nutrition & Health
Highlights 2019
-Solid perf
ormance despite the rapid spread of
African swine fever
- Completion of the global launch of Balancius®
- Vitamin E partnership with Nenter completed
- Opening of Veramaris commercial-scale
production facility in Blair (Nebraska, USA)
- Filed for EU authorization for methane-reducing
Project Clean Cow feed additive
Animal Nutrition & Health reported sales of € 2,892 million
in 20 19 v
ersus € 2,749 million in the underlying business in
2018. In 2019, Animal Nutrition & Health reported 4% organic
growth, against a strong 8% last year and despite the
negative effect of African swine fever (ASF). This
demonstrates the resilience of the integrated and
diversified business model and our ability to address a wide
range of species as well as a diversified geographical
presence.
Sales were strong for all species and in all regions, except
for sales to the swine business in China and South-East Asia,
which were impacted by ASF. This region accounts for more
than half of global pork production, with culling measures
introduced in response to ASF affecting 35–50% of pork
production in the area. The rapid spread of this disease
disrupted the global equilibrium of the animal protein
sector in the short term. As a result, in the second half of
2019, we were unable to fully offset the impact of the decline
in pork production in the region with increases inproduction from other regions and species. Overall,
volumes 
and prices were both up by 2%. The price increase
was due to positive sales mix effects, as well as price
increases earlier in the year for some ingredients to
compensate for higher costs.
Animal Nutrition & Health serves the global feed industry
with innovative and sustainable nutritional solutions. A
pioneer since the earliest days of feed additives, we draw
on the latest science to provide a unique portfolio that runs
from vitamins through carotenoids to cutting-edge
eubiotics and feed enzymes.
Population growth and rising incomes are driving global
demand for animal protein. We focus our passion and
expertise on the following six business drivers to support
the livestock value chain and address the challenges facing
our planet:
- Improving the lifetime performance of farm animals
- Making efficient use of natural resources
- Reducing emissions from livestock
- Helping tackle antimicrobial resistance
- Reducing our reliance on marine resources
- Improving the quality of meat, milk, fish and eggs while
reducing food loss and waste
We strongly believe in sustainable food systems, and that
the livestock industry can transform itself from within to
deliver the solutions to the challenges facing society and
the animal protein industry. We want to play a key role in
this transformation, and we work at species and country
level to provide tangible and actionable solutions that will
help build a sustainable future for us all.
The global pork industry was impacted significantly by ASF
in 2019, with China and Asia feeling its adverse effects on
herd size and production. The decline in pork production
in China was partly offset by an increase in imports of pork
to China, as well as other sources of protein in the form of
poultry and fish. Our swine business was well placed to
adapt to these market conditions and address changes in
the protein production value chain with our well-balanced
species and solutions approach. Other regions — EMEA,
Latin America and North America — are well positioned to
help meet the increased demand for exported pork.
Our Crina® range of essential oils enjoyed strong demand
in key markets during 2019. Crina® Poultry Plus is the
market-leading solution, combining a unique and
complementary blend of essential oil compounds with the
most efficient organic acid (benzoic acid) to modulate the
microbiota and stimulate the secretion of digestive
enzymes. Furthermore, Crina® Digest, the latest innovation
in our portfolio, was launched in Europe at the end of 2018.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 72 www.dsm.comReview of business - Nutrition
Its global expansion is currently taking place for poultry
applic ations.
In 20
19, we completed the global launch program for our
latest breakthrough innovation, Balancius®, introducing it
in the EU and Asia-Pacific. Balancius® is the first and only
feed ingredient capable of breaking down peptidoglycans
(PGNs) in bacterial cell debris, thus releasing otherwise
inaccessible nutrients and unlocking a hidden potential in
gastrointestinal functionality. Scientific data demonstrates
that the addition of Balancius® to the diet of broiler
chickens significantly improves the ability to digest and
absorb nutrients. It consistently improves the feed
conversion ratio (FCR) by 3%, thus making a measurable
contribution to sustainable poultry production. Balancius®
additionally improves breast meat yield and contributes to
better animal welfare by helping to keep litter dryer.
By comparison with 2018, the global broiler meat market
experienced a more balanced supply in most regions during
2019. Our broiler business delivered robust performance,
and we are stepping up our efforts to offer broiler meat
producers more tools to meet consumer demands for a
high-quality, affordable meat product.
Our business with layers showed profitable volume growth
in 2019 thanks to the strong performance of China, EMEA and
Asia-Pacific. This was attributable to the impact of ASF and
the growing demand for eggs. We also entered into on a
collaboration with the International Egg Commission,
supporting the Commission's work on sustainability in egg
production.
In the ruminant sector, ongoing growth opportunities exist
in the US, Eastern Europe, Asia, Argentina, Brazil and now
also China. The year 2019 was a challenging one for this
sector, but we were able to maintain growth in our core
portfolio, and we succeeded in further growing certain key
products for dairy cows. Our initiatives to become a leader
in sustainable dairy farming made us a preferred partner
in the global alliance Farming for Generations, which is led
by the global food industry leader Danone.
Our aquaculture business performed strongly in 2019.
Improving survival rates, reducing environmental impact
and optimizing raw materials are key enablers for both cold-
water and warm-water fish and shrimp species.
In the pet food industry, the increasing trend to treat pets
as part of the family has driven up product standards
through the use of higher-value functional ingredients. This
has translated into higher pricing. Marketing and product
labeling trends in the pet food market are mirroring those
observed in human nutrition and consumer goods, and are
driving growth in the US, Europe, and Japan especially.In terms of our regional presence, our business enjoyed
strong 
growth in Asia–Pacific during 2019, led by South East
Asia and the Indian subcontinent.
Challenged by the unprecedented outbreak of ASF in 2019
as well as by its knock-on effect on all other species, our
business in China successfully developed and implemented
a strategy of promoting growth across all six species served
by our portfolio. This resulted in robust volume growth in
poultry in China that significantly outperformed the market.
A holistic action plan was created and trialed to ensure that
we are prepared for the forthcoming regulations on ASF.
Significant resources were allocated, and global and
regional teams are collaborating closely to ensure effective
implementation.
We made significant progress in Latin America during 2019,
notably at our new premix plant in Peru, increasing and
improving production capacity for the country as a whole.
Our enhanced species expertise stimulated expansion in
strategic markets, delivering growth in the poultry sector
in the Southern Cone and Central America; in aquaculture
in Chile and Ecuador; in swine in Brazil; and in ruminants
in Mexico and Paraguay. EMEA and North America both
remained important sources of revenue.
We took a game-changing step in sustainable aquaculture
in 2019, commencing commercial-scale production of algal-
based omega-3 at our Veramaris facility in Blair (Nebraska,
USA) — a USD 200 million facility. Our proprietary technology
delivers a breakthrough in the cultivation of marine algae
naturally rich in EPA and DHA omega-3, facilitating
production on an unprecedented scale. Sales of the first
salmon fed with Veramaris® algal oil also commenced in
retail outlets in Germany (Kaufland) and France
(Supermarché Match).
Regarding methane reduction, we filed for EU authorization
in 2019 and took the next step toward implementing our
Project Clean Cow (under the product name Bovaer®)
methane inhibitor in the Netherlands. It is the most
extensively studied and scientifically proven solution to
the challenge of burped methane from ruminants to date.
Over the past ten years, 35 on-farm beef and dairy trials
have been conducted across the globe and in the context
of various feeding systems. These show that a reduction
in enteric methane of approximately 30% can be
consistently achieved. Some trials achieved a reduction of
as much as 80%.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 73 www.dsm.comHuman Nutrition & Health
Highlights 2019
-Good gr
owth in Medical Nutrition and Dietary
Supplements
- Softer macroeconomic conditions increasingly
weighed on Food & Beverage
- Acquisition of AVA, a personalized nutrition
platform
- Growing consumer preference for plant-based
nutritional products, such as life's™OMEGA
- Vitamin C facility in Jiangshan has the lowest
carbon footprint in China
Human Nutrition & Health reported sales of € 2,046 million
in 20 19 v
ersus € 1,989 million in the underlying business in
2018. Our Human Nutrition & Health business delivered 3%
sales growth and -1% organic growth, against a tough
comparison of 7% organic growth in 2018, in increasingly
challenging end-markets. Volumes were up 2% and prices
declined by 3%. After a strong start to the year, softer
macroeconomic conditions increasingly weighed on the
Food & Beverage segment, especially in North America.
The softness was most pronounced in the case of larger
customers. Smaller customers were less impacted.
Medical Nutrition and Dietary Supplements (driven by the
double-digit growth in the i-Health segment, our business-
to-consumer business) performed well over the year. Early
Life Nutrition showed a strong performance in the first three
quarters of the year, with a softer fourth quarter. Lower
prices for vitamin C and negative mix effects resulted in 3%
lower prices.
Human Nutrition & Health provides solutions for the food
& beverage, dietary supplement, early life nutrition, medical
nutrition, nutrition improvement and active pharmaceutical
ingredient (API) markets. We serve these industries with a
portfolio of products (vitamins, nutritional lipids,
carotenoids, nutraceuticals, digestive enzymes, probiotics
and prebiotics, as well as APIs), a suite of customized
solutions (premix, coloration, shelf-life and market-ready
solutions), and a range of expert services. i-Health — a
global consumer health and wellness company, and a
subsidiary of DSM — develops, markets and distributes
branded products that support health and wellness. Core
categories include microbiome health, healthy aging, and
urinary health.
Our business continues to get closer to the consumer in
the value chain, focusing more intensely on the business-
to-consumer and personalized nutrition sectors. A growing
proportion of our revenue — more than 40% — now comesfrom custom nutrient premixes, market-ready solutions and
dir
ect-to-consumer products that address diverse health or
lifestyle benefits.
Culturelle® was the main driver of the i-Health business
in 2019. The world's number one probiotic brand enjoyed
double-digit growth despite the relatively sluggish progress
of the category in its biggest market, the US. This was thanks
to innovative line extensions as well as progress in new
sales channels.
During 2019, we continued to invest in the breadth of our
capabilities to support our customers' growth. We
established Innovation & Application Centers in Isando
(South Africa) and in Cairo (Egypt) in 2019. These hubs, as
well as the newly-opened center in Kaiseraugst
(Switzerland), join our global network of Innovation &
Application Centers designed to stimulate and accelerate
co-innovation with customers worldwide.
Our strong progress in the pharmaceutical industry in the
past few years can be attributed to our leading and growing
position in regulatory capabilities, which allows us to help
register customers' products containing our APIs in target
markets. In 2019, we continued to expand these capabilities,
including the Drug Master File (DMF) numbers in China for
Vitamin B1 and B6 APIs and the renewal of 25 Indian API
registrations, thereby enabling our biopharmaceutical
partners to use these ingredients in the development of
proprietary drug products.
Personalized Nutrition continues to play a key role in our
human nutrition strategy. The acquisition of AVA in the US,
a state-of-the-art digital health platform that provides
sophisticated data analysis and recommendations,
complements previous investments in key capabilities.
These include personalized nutrition delivery platforms,
such as Panaceutics, Mixfit and Tespo, as well as
partnerships related to selected measurement and tracking
technologies, such as Wellmetrix. Combining this with our
world-class nutrition science, products and solutions, we
aim to be the partner of choice for dietary supplements as
well as food & beverage brand owners that wish to offer
personalized nutrition and gain unique consumer insights.
We work with our customers to develop sustainable
products with a high nutritional value that help keep the
world's growing population healthy and have a limited
impact on the environment. For example, our life's™OMEGA
is an algae-based source of omega-3 EPA and DHA and
nearly twice as potent as fish oil. It provides important heart
health benefits throughout life. This product was the first
vegetarian ingredient to make both EPA and DHA available
in a capsule, providing a sustainable alternative to
traditional fish oil. This business has grown at double-digit
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 74 www.dsm.comReview of business - Nutrition
rates since 2018, r eflecting  consumers' increasing
preference for plant-based solutions.
Another example of our sustainable solutions is the
upgrade of our plant in Jiangshan (Jiangsu Province, China).
This facility produces vitamin C with the lowest carbon
footprint in China and generates GHG emissions 32% lower
than alternative sources in the country.
Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients
Highlights 2019
-Abo
ve-market growth in both Personal Care and
Aroma Ingredients
- First results of full operationalization of new
business unit strategy
- Launch of new innovations in skin and sun care
DSM P ersonal Care & Aroma Ingredients reported total sales
of € 
425 million in 2019 compared to € 382 million in 2018.
Full year 2019 sales were up 11%, with a very strong 9%
organic growth and a 2% contribution from foreign
exchange rate effects. All Personal Care product lines,
including sun, skin and hair care delivered good above-
market growth, with Aroma Ingredients also performing well
in 2019. Successful commercialization of the innovation
pipeline further contributed to a very good year for the
business.
Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients offers solutions for
customers in the personal care, home care and fine
fragrance markets. Our extensive portfolio includes aroma
ingredients, vitamins and natural bio-actives, as well as UV
filters, peptides and polymers. Our solutions support the
health and beauty needs of an aging population with
various skin and hair types around the world, and address
increasing concerns around global public health issues
such as air pollution and skin cancer.
Our new business unit strategy started to show results in
2019. Our Personal Care portfolio enjoyed above-market
growth across regions and segments, with exceptional
growth in Asia-Pacific as well as in the photoprotection and
skin bio-actives segments. Our Aroma Ingredients portfolio,
meanwhile, showed ongoing strong growth, with some shifts
toward higher-value products on the part of certain global
key customers, in full alignment with our new strategy.
With the current strong trend for natural Personal Care
products, our biotechnology capabilities are encountering
considerable interest among major flavor & fragrance
players. Bergalin — an allergen-free aroma solution for skin-sensitive applications — was launched, and received
positive mark
et feedback.
We continued building and leveraging our innovation
competences in photoprotection, peptides and polymers
in 2019. At the same time, we kept up our expansion into
new fields such as the skin microbiome and technical and
performance ingredients.
Examples include the launch of TILAMAR® Boost 150, a
unique hyper-branched polymer that offers high volume
and care properties, and PARSOL® ZX, a mineral UV filter that
builds on the growing consumer demand for natural
sunscreens. In addition, DSM Venturing made an equity
investment in Belgium-based skin microbiome company
S-Biomedic in 2019. This investment underlines our
commitment in the skin microbiome, an area with
significant growth potential. In December we also
announced a brand new partnership in our Personal Care
business: an exclusive, global strategic collaboration with
METEX NØØVISTA, a subsidiary of biological chemistry
company METabolic EXplorer, to deliver a 100% bio-sourced
and sustainably produced, multifunctional ingredient for
skincare products.
In 2019, DSM Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients rolled out
a SUSTAINABILITY IMP'ACT CARDS program that provides
transparency regarding the environmental impact, social
impact, traceability and identity of our ingredients.
DSM Food Specialties
Highlights 2019
-Good s
ales growth in hydrocolloids, enzymes,
cultures and yeast extracts
- Acquisition of Royal CSK, combining
complementary strengths to better serve the
global dairy industry
- Leading position in taste solutions for plant-based
meat alternatives
- Avansya, our partnership with Cargill, opened a
commercial-scale fermentation facility in the US
for sustainably produced non-artificial, zero-
calorie, great-tasting stevia sweeteners
- Increase of shareholding in Andre Pectin from 29%
to 75%
DSM Food Specialties reported total sales of € 572 million
in 2019
 compared to € 490 million in 2018. In 2019, sales were
17% higher versus the prior year, 4% resulting from organic
growth, 12% from the consolidation of Andre Pectin
following the increase in our shareholding from 29% to 75%
and 1% from exchange rates effects. All major business lines
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 75 www.dsm.comperformed well over the year, with especially a good sales
growth in c
ultures and food enzymes in dairy and baking.
Andre Pectin performed well.
DSM Food Specialties is a leading global supplier of
specialty food enzymes, cultures, probiotics, bio-
preservation, hydrocolloids, sugar reduction, and savory
taste solutions to customers in the food & beverage
industry in dairy, baking, beverages, and savory. Our
ingredients and solutions are widely used to create a broad
range of food products, from grocery favorites such as
yogurt, cheese and soups to specialized products including
gluten-free bread and beer, meat alternatives, lactose-free
milk, and sugar-reduced beverages.
Demand for our products is driven by five main market
trends: sugar reduction; enhanced taste experience;
improved health and wellness; more efficient and
sustainable production; and reduction of food loss and
waste. With 150 years of experience in biotechnology and
fermentation, we aim to enable better food for everyone,
helping to make existing diets healthier and more
sustainable, and giving increasing numbers of people
around the world access to affordable, quality food.
In dairy, our single largest segment in food & beverages, we
acquired specialty dairy solutions provider Royal CSK
(Netherlands). The highly complementary combination of
our dairy business and CSK's business greatly strengthens
our ability to serve the needs of dairy industries worldwide,
and makes us well-placed to address the fast-growing and
attractive dairy cultures markets.
In baking, shelf-life and freshness are a key trend. Our
enzymes play a key role in keeping bread fresh for longer as
it moves from bakery to store and finally into the
consumer's hands. We introduced a well-received suite of
new freshness solutions during 2019 that deliver improved
softness and resilience along with optimum sliceability in
products including bread, wraps and tortillas, helping to
combat waste in the segment.
In beverages, production efficiency improvements and a
reduced environmental footprint remain major drivers for
many of the world's leading brewers. Demand remained
strong for our enzymatic solutions, including Brewers
Clarex® and Brewers Compass®, which enable significant
energy savings.
Demand for plant-based meat alternatives is growing fast.
Recreating meat flavor in plant-based meat replacers, such
as plant-based patties, is notoriously challenging. We have
developed a Meat Alternatives Taste Toolbox based on
natural yeast extracts and process flavors that deliver the
savory, salty and umami flavor, as well as the fatty mouthfeelthat consumers favor. This helped us take a leading position
in this sp
ace in 2019.
Shelf-life extension is a trend that touches all food &
beverage segments. Our portfolio of bio-preservation and
anti-oxidant solutions offers brand owners clean-label
alternatives to artificial preservatives. In dairy, we provide
for example enzymes, protective cultures, and anti-oxidant
and anti-fungal solutions to protect foods against physical,
chemical and microbial spoilage. This is a growth area with
significant upward potential for DSM.
We accelerated our innovation project for fermentative
Stevia. We established the Avansya partnership with Cargill
announced at the end of 2018. We opened the first
commercial-scale fermentation facility for stevia
sweeteners in the US and saw the launch of the first
consumer products in the US and Mexico. For more
information, see 'Case studies Nutrition' on page 77.
Another growth platform in specialty food ingredients is
hydrocolloids — thickeners and stabilizers that dissolve,
disperse or swell in water to provide a broad range of
important functionalities and physical attributes including
gelling, texture, mouthfeel, viscosity and suspension.
Demand for hydrocolloids, especially our natural
hydrocolloids, is driven by three underlying consumer
trends:
- The quest for convenient foods and beverages
- Increasing demand for dairy- and plant-based protein
drinks
- The trend toward clean labeling
Our hydrocolloids are primarily delivered in the form of
pectin and bio-gums. Both are used as gelling and
stabilizing agents in a variety of foods and beverages. Our
natural hydrocolloids are enjoying strong sales growth.
Responding to rapidly growing global demand for pectin, we
increased our shareholding in Andre Pectin from 29% to 75%
in 2019. Andre Pectin is a leading specialty food ingredient
producer. Our share increase in Andre Pectin, together with
our earlier announced pectin plant expansion, further
demonstrates our full commitment to the fast-growing
pectin industry and enhances our position as one of the
leading global hydrocolloids players.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 76 www.dsm.comReview of business - Nutrition
Commercial-scale  
production
of 
fermentative
Stevia  
sweetener
commences
As consumers around the world strive for healthier
lifest
yles, food & beverage manufacturers are looking to
deliver zero-calorie sweeteners that can support their
choices. In 2018, we joined forces with Cargill in the 50:50
partnership Avansya to meet this demand. A year later,
production of EverSweet™ — a non-artificial, zero-calorie,
great-tasting stevia sweetener — started at a new facility
in Blair (Nebraska, USA).
The USD 50 million facility is the first-ever commercial-scale
facility for stevia sweeteners in the US. At full capacity this
fermentation facility will produce enough EverSweet™ to
sweeten many millions of bottles of soft drinks or servings
of yogurt each month. EverSweet™ has 250 to 300 times
the sweetness of sugar, without the calories.
The fermentation facility produces the steviol glycosides
Rebaudioside M and Rebaudioside D (Reb M, Reb D), which
occur in the sweet-tasting leaves of the stevia plant. The
innovative production process offers a more scalable,
sustainable and low cost-in-use solution compared to
molecules extracted directly from the stevia leaf.
The next-generation clean taste profile of EverSweetTM is
well suited for use in products such as yogurt, chocolatemilk, soft drinks, ice cream, cereal, bars and confections.
Avans
ya has commercial volumes available and is already
supplying EverSweetTM to various customers. Further
consumer products are scheduled for launch across
multiple market segments, and over 300 customer trials and
product development projects are currently in progress.
EverSweetTM is approved for use in food & beverage
products in the US and Mexico, and additional regulatory
approvals for use in other countries are under way.
Purpose-led
With EverSweetTM, we can enable food & beverage brands to
provide consumers around the world with reduced- and
zero-calorie options, with no compromise on taste, and so
help support good health and well-being in our societies.
Performance-driven
The market for high-intensity sweeteners produced by
ferment
ation is expected to exceed USD 3 billion by 2025.
Avansya is well positioned to capitalize on the significant
potential of this market.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 77 www.dsm.comSolution  
for 
sustainable
animal  
protein
now 
available
globally
With the worl d' s population projected to reach 9.8 billion by
2050, global demand for poultry is rising sharply. It is
anticipated that 470 million tons of meat will have to be
produced each year to meet this need, much of it from
broiler chickens.
At the same time, consumers are looking for high-quality,
affordable animal protein and sustainably produced food
as key components of healthy, balanced diets.
Poultry producers are therefore looking to strike a fine
balance in a highly competitive global market. On the one
hand, they need to deliver healthy and sustainably
produced poultry products for consumers, while on the
other hand, they need to employ farm management
practices that are environmentally viable.
Balancius® helps with this challenge by improving the
gastrointestinal functionality of broiler chickens.
Balancius® is the first and only feed ingredient with the
capability of breaking down dead cell debris in the gut. It
increases the Feed Conversion Ratio (FCR) by 3%, improving
digestion and nutrient absorption and helping broilers toobtain more nutritional value from their feed. Balancius®
incre
ases breast meat yield, contributes to better animal
welfare by helping to keep litter dryer, and also reduces
greenhouse gas emissions by increasing the FCR.
Following its successful 2018 launch in the US and Latin
America, Balancius® was introduced in Europe and Asia-
Pacific in 2019.
Purpose-led
Balancius® improves the Feed Conversion Ratio (FCR) of
broil
ers by about 3%. A 3% improvement on the broiler meat
market would result in a reduction of approximately
9 million tons of CO2 emissions, equal to the removal of
approximately 3.7 million cars from the road (based on FAO's
estimates of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in broiler
meat production). Balancius® is well placed to contribute
to this GHG emission reduction.
Performance-driven
Enzymes and eubiotics are  key components for sustainable
animal production, and this market is expected to grow by
5–7% per year over the next decade.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 78 www.dsm.comReview of business - Nutrition
Video
Nicolas Baroux
Head of P
rocurement at Supermarché Match
Supermarché  
Match  
and
Veramaris  
join 
forces  
to 
deliver
healthy  
and 
sustainable
salmon
Owned by the Louis Delhaize
Group and he
adquartered in La
Madelaine, France, Supermarché
Match is a chain of supermarkets
— 114 in north-eastern France.
Nicolas Baroux, Head of Procurement at Supermarché
Match, discusses the retailer's introduction of salmon fed
with innovative Veramaris® omega-3 EPA & DHA algal oil
in all its stores in France.
Why has Supermarché Match introduced salmon fed with
Veramaris® natural marine algal oil?
We are committed to ensuring that everyone has access to
fresh and healthy food. The salmon we are now able to offer
to our customers is rich in omega-3 EPA & DHA from natural
marine algae. These two essential fatty acids are vital for
brain, eye and heart health. Additionally, feeding salmon
with Veramaris® algae-based oil helps preserve the wild
fish stocks from which omega-3 is traditionally obtained.
The algal oil contains twice the levels of EPA and DHA as fish
oil. This twofold approach offers our customers food
choices that are both healthy and sustainable. This is our
contribution to conserving marine resources.
Where ar e these sustainably fed supplies of salmon sourced
fr
om?
Since October 2018, the Norwegian salmon farmer Lingalaks
has been using a diet developed and manufactured by the
Norwegian feed producer Skretting. This diet contains
Veramaris® algal oil, which offers a sustainable, non-GMO
and contaminant-free alternative to fish oil. It does not
require a change to the feed process.
How are your customers responding to the introduction of
salmon fed with Veramaris® algal oil?
At Supermarché Match, we put the customer at the heart
of everything we do. We want all the products we retail to
be good for our customers and good for the planet as well.
That's the philosophy that drives us. Offering salmon fed
with Veramaris® algal oil is fully in line with that philosophy,
and uptake among our customers has been very pleasing
so far.
The salmon industry has welcomed the Veramaris® algal
oil solution, and new premium
 salmon products have been
launched by retailer Kaufland in its German branches.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 79 www.dsm.comNew 
vitamin  
A
form  
for
plant-based
diets
 
Vitamin A plays an essential role in supporting healthy
vision, gr owth, de
velopment, the immune function and the
improvement of gut health. Its key role in eye health is
indicated by its scientific name, retinol, as it supports the
functioning of the retina.
Two types of vitamin A occur naturally in the diet: preformed
vitamin A, which is found in animal products such as meat,
fish, poultry, and dairy foods, and provitamin A, which is
found in plant-based foods such as fruits and vegetables.
Provitamin A is converted into vitamin A in the body.
More than 46% of consumers worldwide today are looking
for an increasingly plant-based diet, with consumer
demand growing for vegetarian and vegan options. To meet
this rising demand, we further expanded our portfolio of
plant-based nutritional ingredients in 2019 and launched
a new form of vitamin A, supporting plant-based diets.
Our Quali®-A with Flexilease™ is an innovative new product
that helps to create a flexible solution for customers
wishing to broaden their vegetarian dietary supplement
offering in response to the changing expectations of diet-
conscious consumers. Furthermore, it can be used forprenatal and postnatal supplements for early life nutrition,
dry food
 applications and multivitamin and mineral tablets.
Quali®-A with Flexilease™ delivers vitamin A with the
highest stability, performance and potency available,
making it an excellent solution for dietary supplement
tablets. It is also suitable for halal, kosher, vegetarian and
vegan diets, and does not include any allergens or
preservatives.
Purpose-led
As more and more consumers worldwide seek plant-based
diets, our vitamin A Qua
li®-A with Flexilease™ delivers all
the health benefits of this key nutrient in a highly stable,
bioavailable and plant-based form.
Performance-driven
With the introduction of Quali®-A with Flexilease™ vitamin
A, we are
 supporting one of the fastest-growing new lifestyle
trends worldwide. In the US alone, the share of plant-based
food & beverage products on the market grew by 278%
between 2012 and 2018, representing an industry worth USD
3.3 billion annually.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 80 www.dsm.comReview of business - Nutrition
Further  
expanding
our 
digital
capabilities  
in
personalized
nutrition
Vitamins, nutritional lipids and minerals are essential for
human he a
lth and well-being, and a balanced and
nutritious diet is key to prevent diseases. There is a growing
interest worldwide in personalized nutrition —
science-based, data-driven nutritional solutions tailored to
consumers' specific health goals and needs.
In 2019, we expanded our growing capabilities in this field
further by acquiring AVA, a Boston (Massachusetts, USA)
based state-of-the-art digital health platform. AVA
leverages artificial intelligence and machine learning to
analyze behavior, wellness and consumption patterns, and
provides sophisticated data analysis, recommendations
and coaching for a broad range of audiences.
Combining AVA's technology with our own world-class
nutritional science, products and solutions, we aim to be
the partner of choice for dietary supplement as well as food
& beverage brand owners wishing to offer personalized and
healthy nutrition and gain unique consumer insights.
The acquisition of AVA builds on previously announced
investments in personalized nutrition delivery platformssuch as Panaceutics, Mixfit and Tespo , as well as
partnerships related to selected measurement and tracking
technologies, such as Wellmetrix. Together, these
investments bring complementary capabilities, allowing us
to offer end-to-end solutions along the personalized
nutrition value chain, which is an important element in our
nutrition strategy.
Purpose-led
Differences in age, genotype and health status mean that
individuals c
an react in very different ways to the same
foods. Personalized nutrition allows individuals to make
dietary choices tailored to their specific needs, reducing
their exposure to a wide range of non-communicable
diseases and helping to lower healthcare costs.
Performance-driven
The global personalized retail nutrition and wellness
market w
as valued at around USD 1.5 billion in 2018 and is
projected to grow at a compound annual growth rate of 9.5%
to 2025.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 81 www.dsm.comVideo
How 
cows  
can
help  
us 
fight
climate  
change
one 
burp  
at 
a 
time
Methane is a greenhouse gas which, like carbon dioxide,
contribut
es to climate change. Methane is a volatile, but
much more potent greenhouse gas than CO2 and ruminants
(mainly cows) emit about 20% of all methane gasses
globally. Reducing global methane emissions from cows will
immediately help slow the pace of global warming in the
next decade already, helping society to take longer-term
action on CO2 reduction. Through our Project Clean Cow, we
have developed a proprietary feed additive. Just a quarter
of a teaspoon per cow per day inhibits the enzyme that
triggers methane production in a cow's stomach and
reduces methane emissions.
The feed additive is scientifically proven to cut methane
emissions from dairy cows by about 30%, thereby
significantly reducing the environmental footprint of dairy
and beef products, a key source of protein around the world.
In 2019, we filed for EU market authorization of our
methane-reducing feed additive under the product name
Bovaer®. Registrations in other regions are to follow. The
product will be available in Europe as soon as EU
authorization is granted.
Meanwhile, we are already taking the next steps to prepare
for the market launch of our methane inhibitor. In the
Netherlands, for example, a trial across the Dutch Dairy
Chain, together with Wageningen University & Research,FrieslandCampina, Agrifirm, De Heus and ForF armers, was
started in 2019. It aimed to gather all the information
necessary for accreditation of our feed ingredient by the
Carbon Footprint Monitor/Climate Module of the Annual
Nutrient Cycling Assessment. The insights from this study
will be applicable across Europe.
Additionally, we continue to develop new forms and
applications for a broad range of farming systems. In New
Zealand for example, we have been exploring the potential
benefits for a slow-release version of our methane-
reducing feed additive in the dairy farming market in
collaboration with Argenta, Otago University School of
Pharmacy and AgResearch.
Purpose-led
Project Clean Cow has been recognized by the World
Resour
ces Institute as one of the ten global breakthrough
technologies that can help feed the world without
destroying it. Adding the feed additive to the diet of three
cows is the equivalent of taking one family-sized car
permanently off the road.
Performance-driven
We are working with key players and influencer s across
the value chain to shape a more sustainable, low-emission
future. The potential market for innovative solutions such
as our feed additive is estimated at € 1–2 billion. 
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 82 www.dsm.comReview of business - Nutrition
Combating  
skin 
cancer  
through
innovative  
approaches  
to 
UV
protection
An astonishing three million cases of skin cancer are
diagnosed
 each year. In the US alone, more than two people
die of the disease every hour. Despite the known risks,
however, many people do not protect themselves
adequately from the harmful effects of the sun's ultra-violet
(UV) rays. Only 30% of women worldwide use sun protection
on a daily basis, and only 14% of men.
One of the reasons why people do not use adequate sun
protection is that they find traditional sunscreens greasy
and uncomfortable. And those who do use sunscreens, only
apply around a fifth of the recommended amount on
average, which reduces their effectiveness.
To help raise awareness of the importance of sun
protection, DSM Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients has
been working with the professional cycling team, Team
Sunweb, to showcase a powerful example of men building
sun protection into their daily safety routine. The riders are
using an innovative, light-texture lotion that is comfortable,
easy to apply, and fast to absorb. The riders found it
effective even after lengthy physical activity, standing up to
long hours of exposure to athletes' sweat.In 2019, our collaboration with Team Sunweb was
highlighted in a br
oad communication campaign about
the importance of sun protection, particularly among
groups who traditionally neglect to protect themselves
adequately.
Purpose-led
Our UV filters and sensory modifiers offer protection from
the
 suffering associated with sun-related skin cancer. Team
Sunweb's positive experiences were highlighted in a wide-
ranging communication campaign that raised awareness
of the importance of building sun protection into daily
safety routine, particularly among groups who traditionally
do not use sun protection on a regular basis.
Performance-driven
The global market for sunscreens was estimated at
USD
 10.5 billion in 2017. As most people who use sunscreens
apply much less than the recommended amount, the
potential of this market is in fact much greater.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 83 www.dsm.comResults at a glance
Materials
€ 2,746
Net sales versus € 2,913 in 2018
(in millions)-8%
Organic sales growth
ver
sus 201818.5%1
Adjusted EBITDA2 margin
v
ersus 17.6% in 2018
and versus an 18–20% ambition
100%
Renewable electricity used in the
manuf actur
e of materials for
Apple's products by end of 2019#1
Supplier of
fiber optic c o
atings>1
Million first responders and service
per
sonnel protected by Dyneema®
1Including the imp act of IFRS 16, see table on page 164.
2For reconciliation to IFRS performance measures, see table on page 180.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 84 www.dsm.comReview of business - Materials
x € million 201912018
Net sales:
DSM Engineering Plastics 1,406 1,516
DSM Dyneema 338 344
DSM Resins & Functional
Materia
ls 1,002 1,053
Total 2,746 2,913
Organic sales growth (in %) (8) 5
Adjusted EBITDA 509 512
Adjusted operating pr ofit 363 383
Capital expenditure 139 132
Capital employed at
31 Dec
ember 1,927 1,878
ROCE (in %) 18.6 20.6
Adjusted EBITDA margin (in %) 18.5 17.6
R&D expenditure 124 122
Workforce at 31 December
(headc
ount) 4,762 4,643
1 Including impact IFRS 16, see table on page 164.
Business
Our Materials cluster comprises DSM Engineering Plastics,
DSM Dyneema and DS
M Resins & Functional Materials. We
are a global player in specialty plastics for the electrical
components and electronics, automotive, flexible food
packaging and consumer goods industries. Our portfolio
also includes Dyneema®, the world's strongest fiber™, for
protective solutions and commercial marine applications,
as well as resins for use in paints, industrial applications
and optical fiber coatings, Niaga® technology for circular
design, and advanced materials for additive
manufacturing/3D printing applications.
Materials cluster performance
Net sales bridge 2019
x € million
Volume Price/mix FX Other2,7462,913
-5%
2%0%-3%
Full year
20
18Full year
2019In 2019, Materials continued its ongoing transformation into
a high-gr
owth, higher-margin specialty business, focused
on Improved Health & Living, Green Products & Applications
and New Mobility & Connectivity. DSM Engineering Plastics
expanded its production capacity for specialty plastics in
India through the acquisition of the Engineering Plastics
business of SRF (India), while DSM Dyneema opened new
production lines in the Netherlands and in the US to
support further growth.
While building a strong platform for its long-term growth
ambitions, in the short-term Materials was confronted with
weak macroeconomic conditions in China and in some of
its end-markets. Materials reported € 2,746 million sales in
2019, with organic growth down by 8%, driven by lower
volumes (-5%) and prices down by 3% (fully reflecting lower
input costs).
Due to the strong performance of the higher-margin
businesses (especially DSM Dyneema), good margin
management, cost control and some benefit from exchange
rate effects, Materials reported almost flat earnings in 2019,
demonstrating the strong resilience of our specialty
portfolio in weak economic conditions. Total Adjusted
EBITDA was € 509 million, 1% lower compared to the
previous year and including 1% from IFRS 16. The Adjusted
EBITDA margin was 18.5% (including 0.2% from IFRS 16)
compared to 17.6% achieved in the previous year.
“ We are playing a key role
in enabling the transition
toward a bio-based and
circular economy by
delivering commercially
attractive bio- and
recycled-based
alternatives. ”
Dimitri de Vreeze, Co-CEO
Trends
Advanced materials with ever-higher performance levels
are r
equired across a wide range of applications and
industries today. Our Materials cluster serves these global
markets, delivering innovative and sustainable solutions
that serve society's rapidly changing needs.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 85 www.dsm.comThe world's urgent requirement for sustainable
transport
ation systems calls for higher-performing
materials that enable autonomous, lightweight and more
energy-efficient automotive design.
Advanced materials also have a key role to play in the
generation and storage of renewable energy, 3D printing,
sustainable packaging solutions, and advanced healthcare
applications.
Consumers are increasingly seeking 'smart' connected and
customized products and services that call for high-
performance materials. Meanwhile, advances in medical
technology are creating new performance requirements for
materials to be used both inside and outside of the body.
Across the globe, circular economy concepts such as
recycling and the use of bio-based materials are gaining
traction. Consumer sentiment and regulatory pressure are
combining to stimulate the development of materials that
can facilitate the creation of a genuinely circular economy
— materials that are bio-based, recycled-based, reusable
and recyclable.
Additionally, people everywhere are increasingly aware of
the importance of safety, including safe manufacturing and
product safety. DSM Engineering Plastics and DSM Resins &
Functional Materials offer solutions that eliminate or
reduce the use of hazardous substances in plastics and
paints, while DSM Dyneema is used in protective apparel for
sports, outdoor recreation, law enforcement, and the first-
responder sector.
Sustainability & Innovation
Our innovation projects deliver sustainable solutions for a
more cir
cular and bio-based economy. Technology from
DSM-NIAGA, which enables the production of fully
recyclable carpets, mattresses and furniture components, is
an excellent example of this philosophy. For more
information on Niaga®, see 'DSM Resins & Functional
Materials' on page 89.
In 2019, all our materials businesses initiated additional
circularity ambitions and programs to reduce the
environmental impact of their operations and to increase
the sustainability value they deliver.
At DSM Resins & Functional Materials, we announced for
example that we will have zero waste to landfill by 2022 and
we have committed that by 2030, at least 30% of our raw
materials will be bio-based and/or recycled-based.
At DSM Engineering Plastics, we will offer a full portfolio of
alternatives that contain at least 25% recycled and/or bio-
based content by 2030. As an immediate step, we launchedbio-based grades of our Stanyl® and Arnitel® portfolio in
October 20
19.
At DSM Dyneema, we committed to sourcing at least 60%
of our raw materials from bio-based feedstocks by 2030 and
created a circular-economy consortium with a remit to
establish an end-of-life recycling program.
At the same time, demand for renewable energy
technologies such as solar, wind and water is driving the
development of higher-performance materials. Several
renewable energy technologies, including those for tidal
and wind energy, contain Dyneema® as a key enabler.
At DSM Additive Manufacturing, we launched a strong
sustainability strategy focused on delivering bio-based
products (such as Arnitel®) and recyclable products, such
as PBT (polybutylene terephthalate — a thermoplastic
engineering polymer that is used, for instance, as an
insulator in the electrical and electronics industries).
Our cross-company DSM Materials Science Center helped
expand our innovation capabilities in 2019, working ever
more closely both with the running businesses of our
Materials cluster and with our Emerging Business Areas
(EBAs) Biomedical and Advanced Solar, which form part of
the 'DSM Innovation Center' on page 94.
Strategy
We continue to future-proof our Materials business by
cent
ering it on the delivery of Sustainable Living and further
strengthening our key focus domains of Climate & Energy
and Resources & Circularity.
This will further develop our Materials cluster into a high-
growth, higher-margin specialty business that delivers
above-market organic growth in the fields of Improved
Health & Living, Green Products & Applications, and New
Mobility & Connectivity.
In Improved Health & Living, we are focusing on the growing
demand for advanced healthcare applications. In addition,
we offer solutions that enhance end-user safety and health
conditions.
In Green Products & Applications, we are providing
solutions that enable customers to cut emissions by using
materials that are lighter, stronger, more efficient and more
sustainable. We are also increasingly focusing on bio-based,
recycled-based, and fully recyclable solutions.
In New Mobility & Connectivity, we are targeting materials
that support the transition from fossil fuel to electric
automotive power and hydrogen-fueled cars. We are also
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 86 www.dsm.comReview of business - Materials
addressing the growing need for increased connectivity
between pr oducts, de
vices and applications.
Across our businesses, we further intensified our focus on
customer-centricity in 2019, implementing several programs
designed to deliver a positive experience for our customers.
These include the multi-year integrated program within
DSM Engineering Plastics that launched customer-focused
scorecards in 2019 that give insight into our Net Promoter
Score, see 'Sustainability Statements — Customers' on page
152, and an initiative to help employees use customer
feedback to improve their work.
Partnerships
We have many partnerships and coalitions that support and
ac
celerate innovation within Materials. An example of our
customer-centric cross-sector collaboration and innovation
was the active membership of ARENA2036 (Active Research
Environment for the Next Generation of Automobiles), the
leading technology platform for mobility in Germany.
ARENA2036 is the initiator of sustainable automotive
engineering and automobile production for the next
generation of vehicles and a platform in which suppliers,
customers and research institutes participate.
In 2019, together with ECOR, DSM-NIAGA started a
consortium comprising leading furniture manufacturers
Royal Auping, Canary Company, Cartoni Design, Concourse,
INTOS, König+Neurath, Occony, Triboo and Zwartwoud to
explore the use of circular panels in their furniture. In DSM
Additive Manufacturing we are working with a range of
partners to create a complete additive manufacturing
ecosystem to accelerate the adoption of 3D printing. These
partners include companies such as Stratasys, Fortify, CEAD
Group, e-Xstream, Origin, Twikkit, Ultimaker and Royal
HaskoningDHV.
DSM Engineering Plastics
Highlights 2019
-P
ersisting softness in China and the global
automotive segment
- Continued shift of portfolio toward higher-value,
specialty materials
- Launch of bio-based offering of Stanyl® and
Arnitel® grades
- Acquisition of the specialty materials business of
the Indian company SRF Ltd.
DSM Engineering Plastics reported total sales of
€ 1,
406 million in 2019 compared to € 1,516 million in 2018.
DSM Engineering Plastics saw persistent softness in Chinaand in the global automotive segment, resulting in a 10%
reduction in or
ganic growth versus 2018. Electrical &
electronics saw some signs of improvement in the second
half of the year. Business conditions in other end-segments
were solid.
DSM Engineering Plastics addresses the key market trends
in automotive and electronics. Besides serving these two
sectors, we provide solutions to specialized industries that
address a range of evolving consumer and societal needs.
Example application areas include water management,
power distribution, outdoor power equipment, and
multilayer flexible food packaging.
The quest for new forms of mobility remains a key driver for
our business. We create products that help reduce the fuel
consumption and thus the tailgate emissions of light
vehicles, and which also improve the safety and
connectivity of cars. Our products find applications in the
automotive industry in fields such as powertrain, auto
electronics and electricals, as well as vehicle interiors and
exteriors.
The other key trend for our business is the rapidly growing
demand for device connectivity. We have a strong track
record in the consumer electronics industry, with our
materials finding extensive use in connectors in mobile
devices such as smart phones and notebooks. This
expertise can be deployed in other fields too, such as
connected vehicles and smart electricals and appliances.
During 2019, we continued to shift our portfolio toward
higher-value, specialty materials with advanced grades and
improved properties. We increased our number of
differentiated grades, offering high performance in areas as
diverse as heat resistance, thermal conductivity,
electromagnetic interference shielding, electrical insulation
performance, halogen-free flame retardancy, and hydrolysis
resistance.
We also launched new approaches in support of the circular
and bio-based economy. We will be offering a full portfolio
of alternatives that contain at least 25% recycled and/or
bio-based content by 2030. As an intermediate step, we
introduced bio-based Stanyl® and bio-based Arnitel®
grades founded on a certified, mass-balancing biomass
feedstock approach. We also engaged with companies in
our value chain to explore and further develop chemical
and mechanical recycling routes.
In 2019, we acquired the specialty materials business of
the Indian company SRF Ltd. to further strengthen our
market-leading position in that country. This fits well with
our strategic aim of generating leading positions in fast-
growing economies.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 87 www.dsm.comWe also announced the operational launch of a new production line for Arnitel® in Emmen (Netherlands). The capacity has
been e xp
anded by 20% and will enable greater flexibility and security of supply.
In alignment with Apple's Clean Energy Program, we transitioned to 100% renewable electricity in the manufacture of our
materials for Apple's products by the end of 2019.
Operational launch of a new production line for Arnitel® in Emmen (Netherlands).
DSM Dyneema
Highlights 2019
-C
ontinued high demand in the high-margin
personal protection segment
- New Dyneema®next-generation UD technology
line opened to increase capacity
- Launch of sustainability strategy covering bio-
based Dyneema® and industry coalition for end-
of-life recycling
DSM Dyneema reported total sales of € 338 million in 2019
comp
ared to € 344 million in 2018. DSM Dyneema reported
minus 4% organic growth. The focus on strong growth in
the high-margin personal protection business resulted in
lower volumes in other segments. The shift had a strong
positive effect on the margins.Dyneema®, the world' s strongest fiber™, is 15 times stronger
than steel on a weight-for-weight basis, 40% stronger than
aramid, and floats on water. This combination of extreme
strength, lightness and high durability makes it suitable for
a wide and expanding range of applications, including
personal protection, workwear and sports apparel, outdoor
equipment and nets for the rapidly growing aquaculture
sector. Products made with Dyneema® provide an
environmental and/or societal benefit compared to their
mainstream counterparts.
We are the only global and backward-integrated producer
of ultra high molecular weight polyethylene (UHMWPE)
products. Dyneema® offers exceptional safety in
combination with excellent ergonomics. It protects over
one million first responders and service personnel around
the globe, such as ambulance crews and law enforcement
officers, while approximately 22 million pairs of hands
worldwide are protected by gloves made with Dyneema®.
We aim to grow the number of people protected by our life-
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 88 www.dsm.comReview of business - Materials
saving and high-risk applications to 40 million worldwide
by 20
23.
During 2019, we continued our strategy of expanding into
existing market segments and applications by offering a
range of innovative, unique and patent-protected
technologies. Examples include:
- Dyneema® Force Multiplier Technology for comfortable,
ultra-light-weight ballistic protection
- Dyneema® Diamond Technology, which offers increased
cut protection and comfort for heavy-duty gloves
- Dyneema® Max Technology for mooring offshore floating
wind parks and for maximizing deep-water installation
crane capacity
- Dyneema® Composite Fabric ultralight and high-
performance material for outdoor, apparel and leather
in consumer and professional markets
Besides benefiting from continuing strong uptake for
Dyneema® Force Multiplier Technology and Dyneema® UD
(Uni-Directional laminate), we enjoyed strong demand for
Dyneema® fiber during 2019.
In 2019, we expanded our manufacturing capabilities with
a new Dyneema® UD line in Heerlen (Netherlands).
Increased production capacity of next-generation UD
technology was also made available in Greenville (North
Carolina, USA). The expansion at both locations will help to
meet the growing demand from law enforcement and first
responders.
We also took important new steps in the field of
sustainability. In alignment with DSM's overall purpose, we
launched our additional sustainability ambitions, which
focus on reducing the use of scarce resources and
increasing circularity across our production processes. By
2030, at least 60% of the Dyneema® fiber feedstock will be
sourced from bio-based raw material. This will enable our
customers to easily shift to a more sustainable product and
solution, without compromising on fiber performance. By
2020, we will also establish an industry coalition consisting
of customers, waste processors, and recycling companies to
address the recycling of end products made with
Dyneema® fiber. As a first step, a DSM Dyneema Circularity
Summit with key partners and recyclers took place in
Brussels in November 2019. The participants jointly created
and committed to the coalition structure.DSM Resins & Functional Materials
Highlights 2019
-Busines
s conditions stabilizing and anticipation
of upcoming investments in 5G network
- Continued expansion of bio-based Decovery®
technology in the decorative market
- Acquisition of founders' shares in DSM-NIAGA,
gaining 100% ownership
DSM Resins & Functional Materials reported sales of
€ 1,
002 million in 2019 compared to € 1,053 million in 2018,
with organic growth down by 6%. Business conditions in
coating resins stabilized versus previous year: while the
European end-markets remained weak, the business
experienced a small uptick in the Chinese building &
construction sector. Functional Materials saw its sales of
specialty coatings for glass fiber optic cables decline in
the second half of the year. The 4G network investments
started to tail off in anticipation of the upcoming
infrastructure investments for the 5G networks, which led to
temporarily lower sales.
At DSM Resins & Functional Materials, together with our
customers and value chain partners, we are driving the
resins and functional material industries forward by
developing solutions that offer reduced impact on the
environment and people's health. In 2019, we kept up our
efforts to enable a more circular economy by offering resin
solutions that improve the recyclability of packaging and
reduce single-use consumption of materials. We remain
the world's number one supplier of fiber-optic coating
solutions.
In the decorative market, we continued to leverage our bio-
based Decovery® technology platform. We launched a
ground-breaking self-matting resin that enables better
coating processing and higher performance for ultra-matt
coatings. Together with the Chinese paint manufacturer
Chenyang, we launched a new eco-friendly paint solution
based on our Decovery® technology in 2019, and continued
to work on improving indoor and outdoor air quality.
For the furniture market, we further developed our offering
to address growing consumer demand for furniture made
from sustainable and healthy materials. Our improved
powder coating, waterborne and UV-cured technologies
enable the sustainable production of furniture with low
levels of volatile organic compounds (VOCs), for example.
In the telecommunications market, we are continuing to
build our innovation pipeline to meet the growing demand
for greater connectivity and network reliability. We are doing
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 89 www.dsm.comthis by driving forward with our 5G coating. This coating
enabl es the use of LED l
amps in the curing process rather
than traditional higher-energy-consuming light sources. By
comparison with the mainstream alternative, this UV LED-
cured coating enables an 80% reduction in energy
consumption combined with higher functional
performance.
DSM Coating Resins launched an ambitious set of
sustainability commitments underlining DSM's purpose. For
example, the acceleration of the phase-out of all chemicals
of high concern from our finished products by 2025 and
the commitment that at least 30% of our sourced raw
materials will be bio-based and/or recycled-based by 2030.
Chemsec — an independent, non-profit organization
committed to the development of sustainable chemicals —
described these targets as a 'major earthquake' for the
chemicals sector. 
Niaga®
We acquired 100% ownership of DSM-NIAGA, purchasing
the shar
es held by the founders of DSM-NIAGA. DSM-NIAGA
is the developer of a VOC-free adhesive and a proprietary
production technology for fully recyclable carpets. Mohawk
Industries in the US was one of the first industry players to
use Niaga® technology. Some European carpet
manufacturers have since adopted the technology too.
DSM-NIAGA's philosophy is now being applied to other
product categories, including mattresses and laminated
panels for furniture manufacture. We are producing the
latter together with our partner ECOR. In 2019, together with
ECOR, we started a consortium of leading furniture
manufacturers to explore the use of circular panels in their
furniture. The commitment of these industry innovators
enables DSM-NIAGA and ECOR to scale up the production
of Niaga®ECOR® panels as a sustainable alternative to
traditional furniture panels.Additive Manufacturing
Foll
owing the establishment of Additive Manufacturing as
a separate business unit in 2018, we maintained our focus
on selected market segments during 2019. These included
the healthcare, transportation, sports and lifestyle, and
electronics sectors.
We deploy our materials science and application expertise
to meet the needs of end-users, developing new business
models to accelerate the adoption of 3D printing, and help
customers to benefit from the potential of this innovative
technology. To achieve this, we are working with a range of
partners to create a complete additive manufacturing
ecosystem. An example is the creation of a digital platform
together with start-ups and mature software companies
that provides customers different additive manufacturing
scenarios, enabling them to select the best option across
performance, cost and sustainability.
Our key partners include Stratasys, Fortify and Origin.
Through new partnerships with Twikit and Ultimaker we
have supported the development of improved orthotic
braces for children, with enhanced speed of delivery,
personalization, and overall quality. In addition, and with
the support of DSM Venturing, we invested in partnerships
with Voxel8, Adaptive3D, AMT and Inkbit in 2019.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 90 www.dsm.comReview of business - Materials
Making  
wind  
energy  
a 
viable
alternative  
to 
fossil  
fuels
Global energy consumption is rising in response to
popul ation gr
owth and increasing urbanization. Demand
rose by 2.3% in 2018. There is consensus that our
dependency on fossil fuels is untenable and that
sustainable energy sources must take their place. Global
electricity capacity from renewable sources reached
2,351 GW in 2018, accounting for approximately a third of
total installed capacity. This figure is rising year on year as
sustainable energy mega-projects deliver more and more
electricity. In many cases, these projects test existing
material and engineering solutions to their limits, calling for
radical new approaches.
Offshore wind parks are a highly effective means of
generating affordable, clean electricity. However, as more
and more of these are built, at increasing distances
offshore, they provide a new challenge, since highly
innovative mooring solutions are needed to keep them in
position.
Ropes, slings and synthetic chains made with Dyneema®
can play a key role in making renewable energy from
offshore wind parks viable, at an affordable cost. Synthetic
lifting and lashing equipment made with Dyneema®significantly reduc es the weight and size of equipment used
in constructing and operating wind parks, as well as
reducing the physical effort required of their crews.
Dyneema® fiber will also be crucial in delivering the cutting-
edge floating foundation technology necessary to keep
wind parks safely anchored offshore at ever-greater depth.
Purpose-led
As the world seeks to produce more and more energy from
wind park
s, the unique combination of lightness and
strength of Dyneema® enables solutions that are both
operationally viable and cost-effective.
Performance-driven
Growth in offshore wind energy is projected to outpace
onshore wind b
y a factor of two. Floating offshore wind
farms represent the next generation of offshore wind, and
can be operated at water depths of more than 100 meters,
where wind speeds are typically higher. It is anticipated that
within the coming five years, floating platforms will
represent more than 15% of total global offshore wind
investments. Mooring systems made from Dyneema® are a
critical enabler for efficient construction of these wind
farms.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 91 www.dsm.comSvein Rasmussen
CEO St
arboard
Upcycling  
abandoned  
fishing
nets 
into 
a 
high-performance
consumer  
product
Owner of the Tiki brand – the
worl d'
s premiere brand in
windsurfing and paddle
boarding – Starboard was
founded in 1994 by Svein
Rasmussen, a windsurfing world
champion and Olympic
participant. CEO Svein
Rasmussen explains how DSM's Akulon® RePurposed is
helping Starboard maintain its leading market position
while helping to protect the oceans.
What are the key properties of Akulon® RePurposed from
your perspective?
It is a highly versatile, reliable and sustainable high-
performance polyamide made from abandoned fishing
nets. We use it to produce the fins and other accessories
of our windsurf and stand-up paddle (SUP) boards. Akulon®
RePurposed is currently used in about 45% of Starboard's
SUP and Windsurf boards. These products are branded as
NetPositive!
Why has Starboard opted to use Akulon® R eP urposed?
Waste plastic in our oceans is wreaking havoc on marine
wildlife and fisheries collected in India. Abandoned plastic
fishing nets are part of the problem. Known as 'ghost' fishing
nets, they can result in the accidental capture of dolphins,
turtles  and other  marine  animals.  There  are roughly  640,000
tons of these nets currently in our oceans, accounting for
almost 10% of all plastic waste in the sea. Retrieving and
upcycling them has a major positive impact on the oceans
from which they are collected, and represents an important
step in the direction of a genuinely circular economy. With
this solution we contribute to litter-free beaches and a
healthier marine environment, and also make a positive
social impact on local communities in India.
How does DSM help Starboard realize the company's
societal and sustainability goals?
One of the most satisfying parts of our work is the challenge
of redesigning our products to lower their environmental
impact and achieve higher performance. Through our
collaboration with DSM, we showcase how quick and easy it
can be to change the way we build better boards for the
planet. We want to continuously push boundaries for more
eco-innovations for our boards.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 92 www.dsm.comReview of business - Materials
Philippe Vanhille
Exec
utive Vice President Telecom BU at Prysmian Group
Enhancing  
performance,
reducing  
energy  
consumption
DSM Resins & Functional
Materia
ls is a key enabler of the
continuing rapid expansion of
the global telecommunications
market. Around the world, there has never been stronger
demand for connectivity. Our optical fiber and cable
coatings support the growth of fiber and cable
manufacturers such as Prysmian Group, the world leader
in the energy- and telecom cable systems industry.
With almost 140 years' experience, 29,000 employees in over
50 countries and 112 plants worldwide, Prysmian Group is
listed on the Italian Stock Exchange, in the FTSE MIB index
and generates annual sales in excess of € 11 billion. Philippe
Vanhille, Executive Vice President Telecom BU at Prysmian
Group, discusses Prysmian's collaboration with DSM on
the development of next-generation optical fiber solutions.
What is the scope of Prysmian's current activities worldwide?
Each year, Prysmian Group manufactures thousands of
miles of underground and submarine cables and systems
for power transmission and distribution, as well as
medium- and low-voltage cables for the construction and
infrastructure sectors. We also produce a comprehensive
range of optical fibers, copper cables and connectivity
systems for voice, video and data transmission for the
tel
ecommunications sector.
And what is the focus of Prysmian's collaboration with DSM?
We are working together on reducing the deployment costs
of fixed and mobile networks by enabling cable solutions
with enhanced fiber density. DSM's contribution allows us
to pioneer certain key innovations and to offer the market
decisive solutions such as ultra-high fiber count cables and
high-density cable systems.
How does DSM help Prysmian realize the company's societal
and sustainability goals?
Besides improved product performance, our joint
development work focuses on enhanced energy-saving
technology along with improved health and safety
initiatives for our production workforce.
What benefits does this collaboration bring to Prysmian?
Prysmian and DSM have shared values regarding innovation
and sustainable growth, along with a common vision to
enable our customers, partners and stakeholders to achieve
their own goals in an efficient, ethical and sustainable way.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 93 www.dsm.comResults at a glance
Innovation
Accelerating the innovative power of our core business with
bre
akthroughs such as:
Fermentative Stevia:
for sug
ar reduction
Project Clean Cow:
feed additiv
es for reduced
methane emissions in cattle
Veramaris®: algae-based
omeg a
-3 for sustainable
aquaculture
Niaga®: technology for fully
recy
clable carpets, furniture and
mattresses
Every
second
A p
atient receives a
medic a
l device containing
a biomedical solution from DSM3–5%
Yield improvement for ethanol
produc
ers who use our eBOOST™> 250
Million PV modules use DSM
co
ating technologies
21%
Innovation sales, in line
with our ambition of ~ 20%4.6%
R&D expenditure
as a % of s
ales in line with our
ambition of ~5%
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 94 www.dsm.comReview of business - Innovation
DSM Innovation Center
x € million 201912018
Net sales 194 172
Organic sales growth (in %) 9 5
Adjusted EBITDA 22 8
Adjusted operating pr ofit (19) (14)
Capital expenditure 34 32
Capital employed at
31 Dec
ember 616 597
R&D expenditure 70 67
Workforce at 31 December
(headc
ount) 726 701
1 Including the impact of IFRS 16, see table on page 164.
The DSM Innovation Center has two functions. The first is to
help de
velop new business, focusing on areas outside the
current scope of the company's business groups. The
Innovation Center identifies and invests in new and
innovative growth options, initially through the Business
Incubator and then by developing and extracting value
through the Emerging Business Areas (EBAs).
The Innovation Center's second function is to accelerate
the innovation power and speed of our core businesses.
In this role, it supports all of DSM's businesses through
the Excellence in Innovation Program, DSM Venturing, and
the IP & Licensing department. In addition, the Chief
Technology Officer, acting through the Science & Technology
Department, ensures the quality of the total R&D
competence base, including monitoring and ensuring
access to early-stage technologies with disruptive potential
through the Corporate Research Program. Our innovation
community also lays the groundwork for future
opportunities by identifying rising stars within the current
innovation pipeline and considering how longer-term,
purpose-led innovation projects could offer solutions for
Nutrition & Health, Climate & Energy, and Resources &
Circularity.
Full-year 2019 sales were up 13%, with 9% organic growth
and a 4% contribution from exchange rate effects.
Biomedical reported strong sales growth over the year. Bio-
based Products & Services benefited from the license
income for yeast technologies used for bio-based fuels.
Solar was soft due to the challenging Chinese market.
The Adjusted EBITDA increased to € 22 million, benefiting
from a strong increase in license income at Bio-based
Products & Services as well as a good performance ofBiomedical and a positiv e  contribution from exchange rates
effects.
Creating opportunities for future earnings growth through
innov
ation
In 2019, innovation sales across DSM amounted to 21% from
s
ales, in line with our aspiration of around 20%.
Furthermore, a strong and focused innovation pipeline of
large innovation projects was created to enhance long-term
growth. Examples include:
- Project Clean Cow for feed additives that reduce methane
emissions from cattle
- Veramaris, creating algae-based omega-3 for sustainable
aquaculture
- Avansya, the fermentative Stevia sweetener platform
- Niaga® technology for fully recyclable carpets,
mattresses and furniture
- Plant-based proteins for human nutrition
- Enzymes and yeasts for 1.5G and 2G ethanol production
- Additive manufacturing
“ I am proud of our healthy
innovation pipeline, which
addresses key challenges
in our focus domains of
Nutrition & Health, Climate
& Energy, and Resources &
Circularity.  ”
Patricia Malarkey, DSM Executive Committee
Enabling DSM's Bright Science
The ability to deliver innovative products and solutions is
essentia
l to the success of our business and our positive
impact on society. The Innovation Center plays a central role
in guiding, enabling and accelerating innovation and R&D
across the company.
R&D is instrumental to the realization of our innovation
strategy. Most of our expenditure in this area is directed to
business-focused programs that underpin our science-
based, sustainable solutions.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 95 www.dsm.comR&D expenditure (including associated IP expenditure)
x € million
 2019 2018
Nutrition 218 206
Materials 124 122
Innovation Center 70 67
Corporate Activities 4 3
Total 416 398
Total as % of net sales
underl ying busines
s 4.6 4.51
Staff employed in R&D
activities 1,885 1,880
1 Excluding temporary vitamin effect, for further information see table on page
65.
Our
 toolbox of scientific competences is grouped into seven
ar
eas: analytical, biological, chemical, engineering,
macromolecular, materials, and nutritional sciences. These
seven areas are key to our continued success. The Science
& Technology department ensures that we have the right
combination of skills, capabilities and partners to deliver
on our competences.
We have more than 30 laboratories spread across ten
countries, and our science network comprises about 1,900
internal scientists, including 23 professors and academic
associates, distributed around the globe. These employees
co-operate with more than 100 universities and external
R&D institutions worldwide, both in public-private
partnerships and in academic collaborations such as with
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and Delft
University of Technology, see 'Innovation partnerships' on
page 99.
Our collaborative approach increases our scientific scope
and helps us make joint scientific contributions to address
significant scientific and societal challenges. We participate
in more than 200 academic networks, more than 80 industry
networks, and more than 40 public-private partnerships
(PPPs) in the fields of Nutrition, Health and Sustainable
Living.
We continue to increase our investments in the digital
transformation of our R&D capabilities. This includes
making our collective organizational knowledge more easily
available across the entire R&D organization, using artificial
intelligence, deep learning and modeling, as well as
extending lab automation. These investments are
accelerating our core processes, increasing our operational
efficiency and improving the speed of our innovation
processes and delivery.We also continue to recognize, reward and nurture scientific
t
alent. The Bright Science Awards reward excellence in PhD
research in areas of particular interest to DSM's strategy.
Winning a Bright Science Award gives PhD graduates not
only financial recognition for their achievements, but also
a platform to make a name for themselves in their chosen
discipline. The program helps participants make the vital
connection between scientific achievement and
commercial and industrial success — an increasingly
important consideration.
As an innovative, science-based company that seeks a
strong and diverse talent pipeline in the sciences, we are
running an ongoing campaign to advocate for more women
in Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM)
professions across the globe. In 2019, we published a
progress report in which we explain how DSM is accelerating
gender equality and inclusion across our own science &
technology workforce — as well as share our vision of what
the world should do to stop women being lost from the
STEM talent pipeline. By sharing some of our experiences
and insights gained in recent years from both company
initiatives and women and men working at DSM today, via
videos, blogs and debates, we hope to spark a debate and
encourage the industry to join us.
In 2019, we celebrated 150 years of fermentation and
biotechnology expertise and innovation at our site in Delft
(Netherlands). To mark the occasion, DSM and the world's
first museum of microbes, ARTIS-Micropia, presented a
unique 'pop-up' experience titled 'Small Life, Big Impact:
microbes shape our world', which was from September to
December. More than 10,000 people, including some 1,500
school children, visited the experience center to learn about
the crucial role microbes and biotechnology play in
enabling life on earth, as well as in tackling some of the
world's greatest challenges including climate change,
resource scarcity, circularity, and enabling healthy nutrition
for a fast-growing global population. Building on the strong
foundation of our predecessors, the Royal Dutch Yeast and
Spirits Factory and Royal Gist-brocades, our biotechnology
competences today remain an essential pillar for
innovation and a driver for growth. Around 20% of our
company's total sales are currently derived from
biotechnology.
At DSM, we regularly connect with our international
Scientific Advisory Board. Acting under the supervision of
the Chief Technology Officer, the Board provides valuable
perspectives and insights, challenges and reviews our
scientific work, and gives advice on trends and upcoming
disruptive technologies. The Scientific Advisory Board
comprises seven internationally recognized experts in the
fields of materials, biotechnology and nutrition, drawn from
leading universities in the US and Europe.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 96 www.dsm.comReview of business - Innovation
Scientific Advisory Bo ar d
Member Background
Frank Bates (m) Regents Professor of Chemical Engineering and Materials Science at the University of
Minnesot a (U
SA). His research involves the thermodynamics and dynamics of polymers and
polymer mixtures. He has co-authored more than 450 publications and holds more than 25
patents. Nationality: American.
Thomas Hank emeier  (m) Professor of Analytical Biosciences at the Leiden Academic Centre for Drug Research at Leiden
Univer
sity. Medical Delta Professor of Translational Epidemiology at Erasmus MC, Rotterdam.
Co-founder of MIMETAS, the first organ-on-a-chip company. He has co-authored more than 250
publications and holds over 10 patents. Nationality: German.
Craig Hawker (m) Director of the California NanoSystems Institute, Dow Materials Institute, Facility Director of
the Mat
erials Research Lab and Alan and Ruth Heeger Professor in Interdisciplinary Science at
the University of California, Santa Barbara (USA). He has co-authored over 550 scientific papers
and holds more than 70 US patents. Nationality: Australian/American.
Kirk Klasing (m) Distinguished Professor of Animal Biology in the Department of Animal Science at the
Univer
sity of California, Davis (USA). He is an extensively published expert on poultry nutrition
and immunology, with more than 250 peer-reviewed publications, 10 edited books and nine
awards to his name for his work in animal biology. Nationality: American.
Wolfgang Mar quar dt (m) Chairman of the Bo ar d of Forschungszentrum Jülich (Germany), Vice-President of the Helmholtz
Association, and Coordinator of the Research Field Key Technologies. He also co-founded
AixCAPE e.V., a technology transfer platform in the field of computer-aided process engineering,
and its spin-off S-PACT GmbH. He has more than 350 ISI-listed publications. Nationality:
German.
Helene McNulty (f) Director of the Nutrition Innovation Centre for Food and Health (NICHE), a center of excellence
for
 nutrition research, and Professor of Human Nutrition and Dietetics, at Ulster University. She
is an elected Member of the Royal Irish Academy (since 2008) and Fellow of the International
Union of Nutritional Sciences (since 2017). Nationality: Irish.
Chris Voigt (m) D.I.C. Wang Professor of Advanced Biotechnology in the Department of Biological Engineering
at Mas
sachusetts Institute of Technology (USA). He is the co-director of the Synthetic Biology
Center at MIT and the co-founder of the MIT-Broad Foundry. He is also Editor-in-Chief of ACS
Synthetic Biology. Nationality: American.
DSM Venturing
DSM V
enturing invests in innovative companies in areas
strategically relevant to our current and future businesses.
Every year, we review more than 500 new candidates. In 2019,
we made seven new venturing investments, many follow-on
investments, and generated several collaboration leads
between start-ups and businesses at DSM. By the end of
the year, our portfolio had grown to more than 35 start-ups
(2018: 30). We completed several exits, including a
significant financial exit from ingredients company
Isobionics, and also supported accelerator programs.
Together with DSM Additive Manufacturing and several
external partners, the DSM Venturing team led the 'I AM
Tomorrow' Challenge for start-ups and scale-ups focused
on data analytics, Artificial Intelligence and other advanced
software solutions for large-scale 3D printing.
For more information on DSM Venturing, see the company
website.IP & Licensing
IP & Licensing
 is a global group of qualified IP professionals
who protect DSM's innovations by securing patents and
trademarks. This group also includes certified licensing
professionals who offer expertise for intellectual property-
intensive deals across all DSM businesses, including joint
development agreements, technology acquisitions and
sales, and in-, out- and cross-licensing deals. DSM filed 277
patents in 2019. This reflects our continued focus on
innovation projects with higher potential for business
impact.
Emerging Business Areas
Our EBAs provide strong, long-term growth platforms in
promising end-mark
ets that are based on the company's
core competences. We have three EBAs:
- DSM Biomedical
- DSM Bio-based Products & Services
- DSM Advanced Solar
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 97 www.dsm.comDSM Biomedical
DSM Biomedic
al is a trusted partner to the global medical
device industry, enhancing the quality and delivery of
healthcare, and shaping the future of biomaterials and
regenerative medical devices. Every second, a patient
somewhere in the world receives a medical device
containing a biomedical solution from DSM.
Key trends shaping the global medical device industry in
2019 included:
- The continuing shift toward value-based reimbursement
with market success for products that have proven
clinical and health economic outcomes
- The continuing rise in demand for healthcare services
- The continuing increase of merger and acquisition
activity in the MedTech sector
- Medical Device Regulation (MDR) changes in the EU that
require companies to comply with growing requests for
clinical data as well as technical documentation covering
devices
More broadly, the aging of the global population, the
increasing incidence of lifestyle diseases, and the growing
demand for sustained quality of life and need for quality
healthcare services continue to create opportunities for
DSM Biomedical.
Through our investment in research and our state-of-the-
art capabilities, we create, develop and produce innovative
materials for our partners, along with components, sub-
assemblies and full medical devices. Our technology
portfolio of high-quality, advanced healing solutions
includes biomedical polyurethanes and polyethylenes,
resorbable polymers, bioceramics, collagens, extracellular
matrices, device coatings, and cellular therapy platforms.
These are used in applications in some of the world's most
attractive high-growth markets, including orthopedics, soft
tissue repair, cardiology, diabetes management, and general
and reconstructive surgery.
Our collaboration with Aerie Pharmaceuticals progressed
significantly in 2019, with the first clinical trial of the
AR-13503 Sustained Release Implant in patients with
neovascular age-related macular degeneration or diabetic
macular edema.
Using our ColossisTM technology, the global medical device
company Arthrex launched its new fast-setting synthetic
bone void filler, BoneSyncTM 1 calcium phosphate cement
in 2019. A key benefit of the BoneSyncTM bone void filler is
that it sets in 5–8 minutes. It also offers improved handling
in preparation and delivery and can be mixed with saline,
blood and bone marrow aspirate, allowing affordable, easy-to-use, fast remodeling, settable and drillable solutions to
bone fractur
es.
In 2019, we entered into a partnership with Strait Access
Technologies (SAT), a medical device company focused on
innovations for the heart, to develop the world's first-ever
durable and cost-effective transcatheter replacement heart
valves equipped with polymeric leaflets. For more
information, see 'Case studies Innovation' on page 100.
DSM Bio-based Products & Services2
As the world looks for alternatives to fossil resources, there
ar
e significant commercial opportunities in biofuels and
bio-based alternatives to chemical building blocks. DSM
Bio-based Products & Services pioneers advances in
biomass conversion and seeks to demonstrate the
commercial viability of sustainable, renewable technologies
in collaboration with strategic partners in the value chain.
In particular, we have developed patented bioconversion
technologies (yeast and enzymes) for various feedstocks
and processes including starch-based, corn-fiber-based
and cellulosic conversion for the biofuels industry. We
deliver unique and differentiating  technologies  that enable
biofuel plant operators to optimize their processes and
maximize their yield and co-product creation for more
sustainable, profitable production of biofuels. Our yeast
technology for starch conversion has been demonstrated to
provide consistent, increased ethanol yields at commercial
scale while improving the value of distillers' dried grains
with solubles, an important side stream.
Starch- and corn- fiber-based biofuel
Following the 2018 launch of eBOOST™ , a proprietary yeast
for corn-ethanol production, we launched two new
solutions in 2019, eBOOST™ GT and eBREAK™ 1000F, for
starch-based and corn-fiber-based biofuels, respectively.
eBOOST™ GT adds value for starch-based biofuels
producers by reducing the levels of glucoamylase that must
be added to fermentations by up to 60%. eBREAK™ 1000F
facilitates high-yield hydrolysis for corn fiber conversion
and optimizes plant economics. In 2019, we also created
recurring income by licensing part of our unique portfolio
of patented technologies.
Cellulosic bio-ethanol
Since 2011, POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels, our joint venture
with POET, ha
s been a pioneer in the production of
cellulosic biofuels made from corn stover. The joint venture
recently announced that it will pause the production of
cellulosic biofuels at Project LIBERTY in Emmetsburg (Iowa,
USA) and shift its focus to R&D. The focus is now on
improving mechanical reliability, creating additional
technological efficiencies and licensing technology in
1BoneS yncT M is a trademark owned by Arthrex, Inc.
2DSM's interest in the net result of the joint venture POET-DSM is reported as part of 'Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures'.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 98 www.dsm.comReview of business - Innovation
countries which favorably support the use of low-carbon
fuels fr om cr
op residue and other biomass.
DSM Advanced Solar
Solar photovoltaic capacity continues to grow more rapidly
than any other power sour
ce, fossil or renewable. DSM
Advanced Solar aims to accelerate the uptake and
effectiveness of solar energy by focusing on the
development and commercialization of technologies and
materials that increase the efficiency of solar modules.
Increased efficiency reduces the cost of energy delivered.
In 2019, we introduced our new Endurance backsheet, which
offers all-round performance and 100% recyclability
combined with superior durability. In early 2019, this
innovative backsheet received the TÜV All Quality Matters
award, in recognition of its excellent performance in desert-
like environments.
Our strategic alliance with Silfab in conductive backsheets
progressed well during 2019. The alliance uses back-contact
technology to produce high-power, aesthetically pleasing
solar modules for the residential market. We celebrated
the official opening of the 150 MW high-power module
production line in Bellingham (Washington State, USA). In
October, we reached the milestone of the production of
the first 100,000 conductive backsheets.
In 2019, we launched Retrofit anti-reflective (AR) coating in
Italy and Germany, following a trend to repower existing
older solar parks. This spray-on coating, which delivers up
to 3% extra solar power, is a derivative of our leading AR
coating, which has been applied to more than 250 million
solar panels worldwide to date. In this area, we are
partnering with operations & maintenance companies
Stern Energy and greentech, which have applied this coating
on multiple large utility-scale solar parks.
DSM Business Incubator
The DSM Business Incubator explores potential future
business opportunities in ar
eas with a close link to our
technologies and competence base. Platforms are created
within the scope of securing society's food, health and
energy requirements. This occurs in close collaboration with
industry partners and existing and potential customers.
The Business Incubator feeds our new product pipeline with
opportunities that address previously unmet customer
needs.
In 2019, we announced a collaboration with the agro-
industrial group Avril (France) to produce CanolaPRO®, a
unique protein based on non-genetically modified canola.
The properties of CanolaPRO® make it ideal for a range of
applications including meat and dairy alternatives,
beverages, baked products, bars and ready-to-mix.  For moreinformation on CanolaPRO®, see 'Case studies Innovation'
on pa
ge 101.
Our partnership with Syngenta for the joint development
of microbials for crop protection agents continued
successfully in 2019 with the discovery of several
biofungicide leads on major plant diseases.
We launched Purpose-Led Innovation, an initiative to help
develop the next innovation platforms for our future
pipeline. Our efforts focused on Nutrition & Health, Climate
& Energy and Resources & Circularity, drawing additional
inspiration from major cities such as Singapore, Jakarta
(Indonesia), and Lagos (Nigeria).
Innovation partnerships
We have many partnerships that support and accelerate
innov
ation. Highlights include our involvement in MIT.nano,
a ground-breaking academic nanotechnology laboratory at
the heart of the MIT campus (Boston, USA). We are engaged
with this state-of-the-art facility through common research
programs and the exchange of scientists. We joined the PPP
Soft Advanced Materials, funded by the Dutch Research
Council (NWO). As materials play a pivotal role in addressing
pressing global issues, we continue to focus on finding new,
improved materials that are not only lighter, smarter and
more affordable, but also 'greener' — supporting the
transition to a low-carbon, circular economy.
Other examples include our ongoing partnership with
Syngenta, in which we are developing and commercializing
a range of agricultural solutions that are based on naturally
occurring microorganisms rather than synthetic solutions.
In addition, we started the collaboration with French agro-
industrial group Avril to produce CanolaPRO®, and we have
a strategic alliance with Silfab in conductive backsheets for
solar panels, as described above.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 99 www.dsm.comProfessor Peter Zilla
CEO & Medic
al Director
New 
pathways
in 
heart  
valve
disease
treatment
Strait Access Technologies (SAT)
dev
elops technologies to treat
heart valve diseases. The
company's focus on the complex
requirements for devices suitable for younger patients
with rheumatic heart disease (RHD) has delivered
breakthrough solutions. These new approaches also
promise benefits for older patients with degenerative
heart valve conditions. Professor Peter Zilla, CEO & Medical
Director, discusses SAT's collaboration with DSM on
innovative replacement heart valves.
What is the focus of SAT's collaboration with DSM?
Together we are developing affordable, durable and
minimally invasive replacement heart valves.
Why is this important in societal terms?
In 2018, the World Health Organization declared RHD a
global health priority. RHD is a major health concern in
emerging economies, affecting similar numbers of people
as HIV. Our products treat RHD — a potentially fatal
condition that can develop from lack of access to
antibiotics.
What is DSM's contribution to this collaboration?
DSM'
s R&D capabilities and advanced biomaterials
expertise have allowed us to produce a ground-breaking
product with compelling commercial prospects.
How does DSM's technology help SAT meet the necessary
clinical requirements?
Our new heart valves are made with polymeric leaflets
composed of DSM's CarboSil® Thermoplastic Silicone-
Polycarbonate-Urethane (TSPCU). CarboSil® TSPCU gives
the valves durability and also dispenses with the need for
anticoagulants. Traditional replacement heart valves either
require the patient to take anticoagulants on a daily basis,
with potentially negative side-effects, or else are of limited
durability, especially in the case of younger patients.
When will SAT's new heart valves be available for patients
who need them?
These products are still in the development and testing
phase but have already received strong encouragement
from non-governmental organizations such as the World
Heart Federation. They will be launched on receipt of
regulatory approval.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 100 www.dsm.comReview of business - Innovation
Creating  
better-tasting,
nutritious,  
plant-based
foods
The world's growing population calls for a rethinking of
toda
y's food systems if we are to feed everyone healthy
diets within planetary boundaries. Whether for personal,
health or sustainability reasons, more and more people are
adopting vegan, vegetarian and flexitarian diets. At the
same time, consumers have increasing expectations
regarding the taste, quality, and nutritional content of plant-
based foods and beverages.
To meet these demands, food & beverage companies are
looking for plant proteins that enable better taste, are
highly versatile, offer complete amino acid profiles, and
meet requirements on topics such as allergenicity and GMO.
Recognizing this, scientists at DSM have developed an
innovative way of making a previously untapped source of
plant protein available at scale.
Our patented process for the production of CanolaPRO®
isolates plant protein from what remains of canola
(rapeseed) seeds after these have been pressed to produce
vegetable oil, and makes the protein available for human
consumption. CanolaPRO® can be added to vegetarian andvegan foods to improve texture and taste in meat
alt
ernatives such as vegetarian hamburgers and dairy
alternatives, or to enrich the protein levels in lifestyle and
wellness products such as shakes and bars.
We are working with Avril, a leading producer and processor
of canola, to produce CanolaPRO®. Together, we are making
a wholly new and sustainable source of plant-based protein
available to the food & beverages sector.
Purpose-led
CanolaPRO® helps meet the growing global challenge of
feeding e
veryone healthily and within planetary
boundaries. It is a sustainably produced, nutritious protein
that creates, for example, pleasing textures in food products
and good mouthfeel in beverages.
Performance-driven
CanolaPRO® supports the rapidly growing market for
veg
etarian and vegan products such as meat alternatives
and dairy alternatives, improving sensorial experience in
these products and adding nutritional value.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 101 www.dsm.comCorporate Activities
Any consolidated activities that are outside the three
reporting clust
ers are reported as Corporate Activities.
These comprise operating and service activities, as well as
a number of costs that cannot be allocated to the clusters.
While this segment reports net sales to third parties from
its service units, it normally has a negative operating result.
Corporate Activities includes various holding companies,
regional holdings and corporate overheads. The most
significant cost elements are corporate departments and
the share-based compensation for the company.
Corporate Activities
x € million 201912018
Net sales 42 45
Adjusted EBITDA (97) (105)
Adjusted operating pr ofit (150) (135)
Capital expenditure 30 26
R&D operating expenditure 4 3
Workforce at 31 December
(headc
ount) 2,087 2,005
1 Including the impact of IFRS 16, see table on page 164.
DSM Insurances
We retain a limited part of our material damage and
busines s int
erruption and (product) liability risks via our
captive insurance company. In 2019, the total retained
damages were € 22.9 million.Corporate Research
The function 
of the Corporate Research Program (CRP) is to
develop key Science & Technology competences. Falling
under the responsibility of the Chief Technology Officer,
the CRP typically funds competence development programs
with a longer time horizon than those run by the business
groups. It also focuses on competences that have a broader
relevance for the company. The CRP additionally supports
Science & Technology programs that are carried out with
external parties and programs covering relevant new trends.
Share-based payments
Executives participate in the Long-Term Incentive (LTI)
scheme. This link
s their compensation to the long-term
interests of our company's stakeholders. It also provides a
vehicle for the attraction and retention of suitable
employees. As shares / share units have become more
prevalent in the market, we replaced stock options with
shares / share units in 2017. This resulted in better
alignment with the LTI vehicle already in place for the
Managing Board and the Executive Committee. The use of
shares / share units also targets yet closer alignment with
the interests of our stakeholders. As a consequence of this
switch, we have reduced our hedge obligations. For detailed
information, see Note 27 of the 'Consolidated financial
statements' on page 223.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 102 www.dsm.comReporting policies
Financial and reporting policies
As a b a
sis for, and contribution to, effective risk
management and to ensure that we are able to pursue our
strategies, even during periods of economic downturn, DSM
aims to retain a strong balance sheet and limit our financial
risks.
Our Strategy 2021: Growth & Value - Purpose led,
Performance driven has ambitious strategic and financial
targets, which are outlined starting on page 16. Within the
context of this strategy, we aim to maintain a strong
investment grade and a strong long-term credit rating.
Most of our external funding needs are financed through
long-term debt. Debt covenants are not included in the
terms and conditions of outstanding bonds and financing
arrangements. We aim to spread the maturity profile of
outstanding bonds in order to have adequate financial
flexibility.
An important element of our financial policy is the
allocation of cash flow. We primarily allocate cash to
investments aimed at strengthening our business positions
and securing stable, and preferably rising, dividend
payments to our shareholders. Remaining cash flow is used
for acquisitions, targeting investments predominantly in
Nutrition and in line with our strategy. Share buy-backs will
be considered in the absence of value-creating M&A
opportunities. 
We aim to provide a stable, and preferably rising, dividend.
Dividends are paid out in cash or in the form of ordinary
shares at the option of the shareholders, with a maximum
of 40% of the total dividend amount available for stock
dividend.
In order to cover our commitments under the dividend
policy and under management and employee option and
share plans, we buy back shares insofar as this is necessary
and feasible.
We continuously monitor and assess risks arising from
currency exposures. It is our policy to hedge 100% of the
currency risks resulting from sales and purchases at the
moment of recognition of trade receivables and payables.
Additionally, we may opt to hedge currency risks from firm
commitments and forecast transactions. The currencies
giving rise to these risks are primarily the US Dollar, the
Swiss Franc and the Chinese Renminbi.
We acquire businesses and enter into partnerships that add
value in terms of technological or market competences. In
addition, these businesses and partnerships are required
to contribute to our cash earnings per share, as well as our
profitability, sustainability and growth requirements. Inthe case of small innovative growth acquisitions, we
consider
 their potential to contribute to these requirements
in the future.
Our policies in the finance function are strongly oriented
toward solidity and reliability of reporting, as well as the
protection of cash flows. The finance function plays an
important role in business steering.
For detailed information on our tax policies, see 'Taxation
at DSM' on the company website.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 103 www.dsm.comNon-financial r eporting policy
R
eporting policy and justification  of choices made
In this Report, we report for the calendar year 2019. The
comp
any reports on People, Planet and Profit information
in such a Report on an annual basis. The previous DSM
Integrated Annual Report was published on 7 March 2019.
In the Report by the Managing Board, we explain our vision
and policy with respect to sustainability practices and
report on our activities in this field during 2019. In addition
to disclosing data and developments in the categories of
People, Planet and Profit, we also report on the global
societal megatrends that drive our strategy, sustainability
governance framework, stakeholder engagement activities,
and management approach on material topics. We
proactively seek out the views of key stakeholders on issues
of material importance to the company.
UN Global Compact
We have been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since
2007 and c
ommits to annually report on progress in
implementing the UN Global Compact's 10 Principles in
the areas of human rights, child and forced labor, the
environment and anti-corruption. This Report is our
Communication on Progress 2019, submitted to the UN
Global Compact Office. Our Code of Business Conduct, our
Sustainability, Human Resources, and Safety, Health and
Environment (SHE) policies, and our Supplier Sustainability
Program are the foundations on which we apply the
standards of the Global Compact.
We have also aligned our strategy with the Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs). We are familiar with the
opportunities and responsibilities that the SDGs represent
for our business. Based on our mapping, we believe that we
contribute to all of them, and have chosen to focus on the
goals which most closely align with our strategic ambitions.
In this Report, we continue to include the SDGs into our
reporting process, for example by mapping SDG reporting
priorities in our value creation model, our material topics,
and the solutions that we highlight.
Global Reporting Initiative
At DSM, we base our sustainability reporting on
internationa
l non-financial reporting guidelines. We
frequently assess to what extent sustainability aspects
become material to our company and our stakeholders. In
case specific indicators become relevant to the company's
sustainability performance, appropriate actions are taken
that allow the necessary data to be collected so as to be
able to disclose progress in the future.
This Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI
Standards: Comprehensive option. A detailed overview of
how we report according to the GRI Standardscomprehensive indicat ors, including a reference to relevant
sections in this Report, is provided on our company's
Integrated Annual Report website.
Integrated Reporting Framework
We align with the recommendations of the International
Integr
ated Reporting Council <IR> Framework where
possible. The intention of the <IR> Framework is to provide
additional guiding principles and content elements for an
integrated report. Aligning with the framework allows us to
better identify and communicate how the company creates
value for stakeholders in People, Planet and Profit, as well
as the interconnection between these three dimensions.
The Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
The recommendations from the Taskforce on Climate-
rel
ated Financial Disclosures (TCFD) are a set of voluntary,
climate-related financial disclosures for use by companies
to provide information to their stakeholders. DSM was
among the first companies in 2017 to commit to
implementing, as fully as practicable, these
recommendations over the following three years as
outlined in the TCFD's implementation path. This Report
contains our second TCFD relevant disclosures on
Governance, Strategy, Risk Management, and Metrics and
Targets. For more information on how we report against
the TCFD recommendations, see the 'Sustainability
statements — TCFD' on page 162.
Selection of topics
The topics covered in this Report were selected on the basis
of input fr
om internal and external stakeholders and the
related materiality analysis, which assessed the relevance
and impact of selected topics for our company and various
stakeholders. On the basis of the principle of materiality
(using the GRI Standards), we distinguish between topics
whose importance warrants publication in this Report
(relevant to both DSM and stakeholders), and topics whose
importance warrants publication on the company website
only (topics important to either DSM or stakeholders). We
report on 'External recognitions' on page 38 in
'Stakeholders'. Other examples of external recognition can
be found on the company website.
Scope
The People and Brighter Living Solutions data in this Report
c
over all entities that belong to the scope of the
Consolidated financial statements, provided that DSM also
has operational control. As such, three small units have
been excluded from the scope. Planet reporting covers
manufacturing units where commercial production by DSM
occurs.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 104 www.dsm.comReporting policies - Non- financia l reporting policy
Acquisitions and divestments
The P eopl
e data for newly acquired companies are reported
from the first full month after the acquisition date. The
Safety, Health (People), Environment (Planet) and Brighter
Living Solutions data for newly acquired companies are
reported at the latest in the year following the first full year
after acquisition, because these companies' reporting
procedures first have to be aligned with those of DSM. In
the case of divestments, safety data are consolidated until
the moment of divestment, People data to the end of the
month of divestment, and Planet data are reported to the
last full year at DSM.
Planet methodology
Our progress on the key environmental performance
indicat
ors is re-evaluated annually. Data on these indicators
are collected twice a year for all DSM sites. The data are
based on these sites' own measurements and calculations,
which in turn are founded on definitions, methods and
procedures established at corporate level. The site
managers of reporting units are responsible for the quality
of the data. Data are collected using measurements and
calculations in the production processes, information from
external parties (e.g., on waste and external energy) and
estimates based on expert knowledge.
Reporting units have direct insight into their performance
compared to previous years and are required to provide
justifications for any deviations above the threshold. For
most parameters, the threshold is set at 10%. The year-on-
year comparability of the data can be affected by changes
in our portfolio as well as by improvements to measurement
and recording systems at the various sites. Whenever
impact is relevant, this is stated in the Report. Details for
the regions, as well as the methodology and calculations,
are published on the company website, together with an
explanation of the definitions used.People methodology
Peopl
e data are collected per business group and
consolidated at corporate level.
Brighter Living Solutions
For a definition of Brighter Living Solutions, see the P lanet
section in 'Explanation of some concepts and ratios' on
page 249. We report twice a year the percentage of Brighter
Living Solutions within the running business portfolio.
The sustainability assessments to support the qualification
for Brighter Living Solutions are required to be made by
internal Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) experts and reviewed
using the four-eyes principle with at least one internal,
independent senior LCA consultant. The financial data are
validated with the Corporate Sustainability department and
consolidated as DSM Brighter Living Solutions KPI
performance and reviewed by Group Control & Accounting.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 105 www.dsm.comCorporate governance and risk
mana g
ement
Introduction
Koninklijk
e DSM N.V. (Royal DSM) is a company limited by
shares listed on Euronext Amsterdam. It is managed by a
Managing Board together with an Executive Committee and
an independent Supervisory Board. Members of the
Managing Board and the Supervisory Board are appointed
(and, if necessary, dismissed) by the General Meeting of
Shareholders.
The company is governed by Dutch law and by its Articles
of Association, which can be consulted on the company
website. The General Meeting of Shareholders decides on
any amendment to the Articles of Association by an
absolute majority of the votes cast. A decision to amend
the Articles of Association may only be taken at the proposal
of the Managing Board, subject to the approval of the
Supervisory Board.
At DSM, we fully inform our stakeholders about our
corporate objectives, the way our company is managed, and
our company's performance. In doing so, we aim to pursue
an open dialogue with our shareholders and other
stakeholders.
Our company has an organizational structure built around
business groups that are empowered to perform all short-
and long-term business functions. In this they are assisted
by support and corporate functions, as well as by regional
organizations.
Managing Board and Executive Committee
The Executive Committee was installed to enable faster
strat
egic alignment and operational execution by increasing
our focus on the development of our business, innovation
and people.
The Executive Committee comprises the Managing Board
members as well as four senior executives with
responsibility respectively for DSM Nutritional Products
(Chris Goppelsroeder), DSM Food Specialties and Corporate
Strategy & Acquisitions (Philip Eykerman), the DSM
Innovation Center (Patricia Malarkey), and Group People &
Organization (Judith Wiese). The latter four people are
appointed by the Chairman of the Managing Board after
consultation with the Supervisory Board. The Executive
Committee focuses on topics such as our company's overall
strategy and direction, review of business results,  functional
and regional strategies, budget-setting, and people and
organization. The statutory responsibilities of the Managing
Board remain unchanged.The Managing Board is ultimately responsible for our
comp
any's strategy, portfolio management, the deployment
of human capital and financial capital resources, the risk
management system, financial performance, and
performance in the area of sustainability. The Managing
Board is thus also accountable to the Supervisory Board for
our strategy and management. Notwithstanding that
accountability, the full Executive Committee attends the
Supervisory Board meetings.
The Managing Board consists of two or more members, to
be determined by the Supervisory Board. The current
composition of the Managing Board can be found in the
chapter 'Supervisory Board and Managing Board Royal
DSM'. Since the introduction of the Dutch Corporate
Governance Code in 2004, members of the Managing Board
have been appointed for a period of four years.
The members of the Managing Board are collectively
responsible for the management of DSM. In addition to this
collective responsibility, Managing Board members have
individual responsibility for certain tasks, business clusters,
functional areas and regions. The distribution of these tasks
is published on the company website.
The remuneration of Managing Board members is
determined by the Supervisory Board based on the
remuneration policy approved by the General Meeting of
Shareholders. The remuneration policy for the Managing
Board can be found on the company website.
The functioning of and decision-making within the
Managing Board and the Executive Committee are governed
by the Regulations of the Managing Board, which are in
accordance with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code and
can be found on the company website.
In 2019, the Managing Board and Executive Committee had
45 formal meetings, some of these by teleconference. No
Managing Board member had to be excused from meetings
during the year. One Executive Committee member was
excused once on account of another commitment and in
this case the Executive Committee member gave advance
input. The Executive Committee and Managing Board take
the time for an evaluation at the end of every meeting they
have. This evaluation can be about topics that have been
discussed during that meeting, but may also reflect on
meeting dynamics and individual or collective performance.
Furthermore, there are several informal moments, such as
a collective dinner at the end of a full-day meeting, built
into the meeting schedule. Once a year, the Executive
Committee and Managing Board take the time to get
together and discuss their performance as a team.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 106 www.dsm.comCorporate governance and risk management - Introduction
Supervisory Board
The Supervisory 
Board comprises at least five members. Its
current composition can be found in the chapter
'Supervisory Board and Managing Board Royal DSM' on page
142. Supervisory Board members are appointed for a period
of four years, after which they may be reappointed for a
further four years. A Supervisory Board member may
subsequently be reappointed for a period of two years, and
this appointment may be extended by at most two years.
For reappointments after an eight-year period, reasons
must be provided in the report of the Supervisory Board.
All current members of the Supervisory Board are
independent in accordance with the Dutch Corporate
Governance Code. The remuneration of Supervisory Board
members is determined by the General Meeting of
Shareholders. The functioning of and decision-making
within the Supervisory Board are governed by the
Regulations of the Supervisory Board, which are in
accordance with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code and
can be found on the company website.
The Supervisory Board supervises the policy pursued by
the Managing Board, the Managing Board's performance of
its managerial duties, and the company's general course
of affairs, taking the interests of all the company's
stakeholders into account. When the Executive Committee
was established, the Supervisory Board also took on
responsibility for ensuring that the checks and balances
that are part of the two-tier system are still given due
consideration, paying specific attention to the dynamics
between Managing Board and Executive Committee. The
Supervisory Board is enabled to do so through the
information provided by the Managing Board.
The annual financial statements are approved by the
Supervisory Board and then submitted to the Annual
General Meeting of Shareholders (AGM) for adoption,
accompanied by an explanation from the Supervisory Board
as to how it carried out its supervisory duties during the
year under review.
In line with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, the
Supervisory Board has established from among its
members an Audit Committee, a Nomination Committee
and a Remuneration Committee, besides which there is also
a Sustainability Committee.
The task of these committees is to prepare the decision-
making of the Supervisory Board. These committees are
governed by charters drawn up in line with the Dutch
Corporate Governance Code. They can be found on the
company website.Diversity
At DSM, we str
ongly value diversity, and we endeavor to
reflect this in our Board memberships. The Supervisory
Board has drafted diversity policies for the Supervisory
Board, the Managing Board and the Executive Committee.
These policies seek a balanced composition of the
respective body, taking into account gender, age, knowledge,
experience, and nationality / cultural background. In
addition, for the composition of the Supervisory Board,
the board tenure is taken into account.
In terms of gender diversity, we aim for at least 30% of the
positions in our Supervisory Board, Managing Board and
Executive Committee to be held by women and at least 30%
by men — percentages which reflect Dutch legislation. To
ensure a balanced composition in terms of nationality /
cultural background, our aim is not to have more than 50%
of the members of our Supervisory Board or Executive
Committee drawn from a single nationality. While a diverse
composition in terms of nationality / cultural background
is also taken into account in the composition of the
Managing Board, no quantitative target is set here, given
the relatively small number of Managing Board members.
Our diversity policies are implemented by applying them to
nominations for (re)appointments of Supervisory Board
and Managing Board members as well as to appointments
of Executive Committee members. At the 2019 Annual
General Meeting, Pauline van der Meer Mohr was
reappointed on the basis of her broad experience in human
resources management, corporate governance and
international business and her extensive experience and
qualities as a Supervisory Board member — as
demonstrated during her tenure as a member of the
Supervisory Board and most recently as its Deputy Chair.
Erica Mann was appointed as member of the Supervisory
Board on the basis of her long experience in (infant)
nutrition, consumer-packaged goods (CPG) / fast-moving
consumer goods (FMCG) and pharma in science-based
businesses, as well as her international experience,
including her experience with emerging markets.
Both our Supervisory Board and our Managing Board were
well balanced in 2019 in terms of gender, comprising 50%
and 33% women respectively, which is in line with Dutch
legislation and with the company's own diversity policy.
The gender diversity levels of 50% women within our
Supervisory Board and 43% women within our Executive
Committee exceed our target for at least 30% of these
positions to be held by women and at least 30% by men. As
of 15 February 2020, the percentage of women in our
Executive Committee, Managing Board and Supervisory
Board is 50%. Furthermore, in the Supervisory Board of DSM
Nederland B.V., a subsidiary of Royal DSM, one of the three
members is female (33%).
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 107 www.dsm.comThe composition of both our Supervisory Board and our
Exec
utive Committee are in line with our target of not having
more than 50% of the members drawn from a single
nationality.
General Meeting of Shareholders
The main powers of the General Meeting of Shareholders
rel
ate to:
- The appointment, suspension and dismissal of members
of the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board
- Approval of the remuneration policy of the Managing
Board
- Approval of the remuneration of the Supervisory Board
- The adoption of the annual financial statements and
declaration of dividends on ordinary shares
- Release from liability of the members of the Managing
Board and the Supervisory Board
- Issuance of shares or rights to shares, restriction or
exclusion of pre-emptive rights of shareholders and
repurchase or cancellation of shares
- Amendments to the Articles of Association
- Decisions of the Managing Board that would entail a
significant change to the identity or character of DSM or
its business
The Annual General Meeting (AGM) is held within six months
of the end of the financial year in order to discuss and, if
applicable, adopt the Annual Report, the annual accounts,
any appointments of members of the Managing Board and
the Supervisory Board, and any of the other topics
mentioned above.The AGM and, if necessary, other General Meetings of
Sharehol
ders are called by the Managing Board or the
Supervisory Board. The agenda and explanatory notes are
published on the company website.
According to the Articles of Association, shareholders who,
individually or jointly, represent at least 1% of the issued
capital have the right to request the Managing Board or
the Supervisory Board to put items on the agenda. Such
requests need to be received in writing by the Chairman
of the Managing Board or the Chair of the Supervisory Board
at least 60 days before the date of the General Meeting of
Shareholders.
The AGM was held on 8 May 2019. The agenda was essentially
similar to that of previous years. Additional topics were
the proposed amendment of the remuneration policy for
the Managing Board, the remuneration policy for the
Supervisory Board, the reappointment of Pauline van der
Meer Mohr as a member of the Supervisory Board and the
appointment of Erica Mann as a member of the Supervisory
Board. All topics were adopted by the General Meeting of
Shareholders.
Control effectiveness and continuity assumption
The Statements of the Managing Board are reported on page
12
1. These conform with the Dutch Corporate Governance
Code best practice 1.4.3 on 'Board Statements'.
Corporate
R
isk 
ManagementManagement
reporting &
corporate 
controlInternal 
Control 
FrameworkRepresentation
letterOperational 
complianceCorporate
Operational 
AuditContinuously 
impacting
Top-down guided
Creating upward
transparency
Risk a
ssessmentInternal environment
Control activities
Information & 
communication
Monitoring
Control Effectiveness and Continuity AssumptionCOSO-ERM elementsManaging Board’s 
‘in control’ state
ment
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 108 www.dsm.comCorporate governance and risk management - Dutch Corporate Governance Code
At DSM, we visualize our control environment as a 'house'
that includes the int erna
l control process areas with control
measures related to strategic, operational, compliance and
reporting risks. The elements of COSO (the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission)
provide a framework for identifying company activities that
are carried out to ensure that the control environment is
adequately structured. Finally, to make sure that full use is
made of learning opportunities, monitoring activities
include the sharing of findings and experiences as well as
the application of control measures across the supporting
pillars.
DSM's structure for managing risks involves three lines of
defense (see also 'Risk management' on page 116). Line
management within the units is responsible for the first line
of defense. Risk management forms the second line of
defense, assessing the effectiveness of risk management
and internal control at both unit and corporate level.
Corporate Operational Audit (COA) is the third line of
defense. The scope and frequency of COA audits is
determined by ranking the auditable units according to
the scale of their risk exposure, using a set of defined
characteristics.
COA assesses the operation of risk management activities
by the units, as well as the design of the risk management
and internal control systems, by performing risk-based
audits. These examine the key processes and activities for
the specific units. By means of these audits, COA closes
the risk management cycle and provides additional
assurance to the Managing Board as to the effectiveness
of the design and operation of the risk management and
internal control systems.
COA reports its audit results to the Managing Board and
Executive Committee twice a year. COA also shares an
overview with the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board
and communicates the executive summary of each audit
report to the CFO and CEO.
In 2019, COA carried out 50 audits. In general, audit findings
are considered opportunities for improvement as part of a
healthy learning culture. In approximately 7% of the audited
areas (e.g., operations, finance, SHE, commercial) significant
management attention was required to achieve the DSM
standard. In the rare event of insufficient follow-up on a
finding, the Director of COA escalates that finding to the CEO.
Dutch Corporate Governance Code
DSM supports the Dutch  Corporate Governance Code, which
was most recently amended in 2016 and has been in force
since the financial year 2017. We ensure our continued
compliance with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code.The Dutch Corporate Governance Code can be found on
www.mc
cg.nl.
Long-term value creation is embedded in both our company
Strategy 2021: Growth & Value - Purpose led, Performance
driven and our company culture: Our purpose is to create
brighter lives for all. Sustainability is central to how we fulfill
that mission, and to achieve this, we consider People, Planet
and Profit in all we do. We apply our company strategy to
drive our business and innovation strategies, which address
the challenges of Nutrition & Health, Climate & Energy, and
Resources & Circularity. More information on how long-term
value creation is fundamental to our strategy and culture
can be found in the Strategy 2021 and People sections of
this Report, as well as in 'How we create value for our
stakeholders' on page 30 and in 'DSM and the Sustainable
Development Goals' on page 8.
Regarding the appointment of members of the Managing
Board for a period of at most four years (Principle 2.2 of
the Dutch Corporate Governance Code), it should be noted
that we have adhered to this principle since the
introduction of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code in
2004. Since we respect agreements made before the
introduction of the said code, the Chairman of the Managing
Board in 2019 was still appointed for an indefinite period.
On 2 December 2019, it was announced that Feike Sijbesma
would hand over to Geraldine Matchett and Dimitri de
Vreeze on 15 February 2020. As a result of this handover,
the indefinite period of tenure is no longer applicable.
Any proposed substantial change to our corporate
governance structure and compliance with the Dutch
Corporate Governance Code should be submitted to the
General Meeting of Shareholders for discussion under a
separate agenda item.
All documents related to the implementation of the Dutch
Corporate Governance Code at DSM can be found in the
'Corporate Governance' section of the company website.
Governance framework
Organizational & operating model
Our business groups are the main building-blocks of the
comp
any's organization. They have integral long-term and
short-term responsibility for business and have at their
disposal all functions that are crucial to their business
success. As the company's primary organizational and
entrepreneurial building-blocks, our business groups focus
on four primary business functions: Innovation and R&D,
Direct Sourcing, Manufacturing & Operations, and Marketing
& Sales. Intra-company product supplies are contracted by
the business groups on an arm's-length basis.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 109 www.dsm.comThe business groups are organized into clusters, thus
ensuring c oher
ence of operations and the leveraging of
resources within each cluster. The clusters are the main
organizational entities for external strategic and financial
reporting. This structure ensures flexibility, efficiency and
speed of response to market changes. In order to ensure
sufficient independence regarding financial management,
the CFO has no business groups reporting to her.
Our business groups receive services from global support
functions and functional excellence departments and are
supported by the regional organizations. This set-up
enables us to create a global, high-performing organization
focused on meeting its targets and achieving its ambitions.
The support functions and functional excellence
departments are paid for their services by the users — the
business groups and, to a lesser extent, other DSM units.
Corporate departments are paid from a corporate budget.
Support functions provide those services that can be
delivered more efficiently (in terms of total cost of
ownership) by leveraging them across the company, thus
capturing scale benefits and delivering higher quality at
lower cost, rather than having them arranged in each
business group separately.
Within support functions, centers of expertise provide
specialist support, while shared service centers provide
standard transactional support. Business partnering is the
concept that acts as the interface between the business
groups and the support functions. Business partners
consequently have a second reporting line in the business.
In order to ensure that the functional policies sufficiently
reflect regional requirements, the support functions work
closely with the regional organizations and integrate their
advice.
Each support function reports to a Managing Board member.
There are support functions in the areas of Finance, People
& Organization, Legal, Indirect Sourcing, Communications
and ICT.
Corporate functions (small, high-level groups) supporting
the Managing Board and Executive Committee are also seen
as support functions. The corporate departments are:
Corporate Strategy & Acquisitions, Corporate Operational
Audit, Group Risk Management, Corporate Sustainability,
Corporate Investor Relations and Corporate Affairs.
Functional excellence departments are mandated by the
Managing Board to help the businesses achieve excellence
in their respective fields. They cover the areas of Operations
& Responsible Care, Marketing & Sales and Science &
Technology. Functional excellence departments support our
businesses in improving their performance. They also
provide guidance in setting aspiration levels and targets.Governance framework
The foll
owing figure depicts our company's overall
governance framework and the most important governance
elements and regulations at each level.
Supervisory
Boar
d Articles of 
Association
• Regulations of the Supervisory Board
• Charter of the Audit Committee
• Charter of the Nomination Committee
• Charter of the Remuneration Committee 
• Charter of the Sustainability Committee 
• Regulations of the Managing Board
• Management Framework for the 
   corporate level
• DSM Code of Business Conduct 
Management Framework for 
operational unitsOperational
unitsManaging
Board / 
Corporate  Shareholders
For the s ake of clarity, a short summary of the main aspects
of the fr
amework at Managing Board / corporate level and
operational level is given here. The Managing Board and
Executive Committee adhere to the Regulations of the
Managing Board. The Managing Board and Executive
Committee work according to the Management Framework
for the corporate level. This implies, among other things,
that they adhere to the DSM Code of Business Conduct and
applicable corporate policies and requirements. The
Management Framework for the corporate level further
provides a description of the most important (decision-
making) processes, responsibilities and 'rules of the game'
at Managing Board, Executive Committee, functional and
regional levels, and includes governance relations with
the immediately superior levels (Supervisory Board and
shareholders) and the operational units.
The company's strategic direction and objectives are set by
means of a Corporate Strategy Dialogue. In June 2018, DSM
presented its updated Strategy 2021: Growth & Value -
Purpose led, Performance driven, which is described in more
detail on page 16.
The operational units conduct their business within the
parameters of the Management Framework for operational
units. This implies, among other things, that they:
- Comply with the DSM Code of Business Conduct,
Corporate Requirements and Directives
- Establish the strategy, objectives and operational targets
of their business according to the Business Strategy
Dialogue, in alignment with the Corporate Strategy
Dialogue, in which various scenarios and related risk
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 110 www.dsm.comCorporate governance and risk management - Governance framework
profiles are investigated, and report on the achievement
of these
-
Implement risk management actions according to an
Annual Risk Management Plan and in line with corporate
policies
- Execute company-wide standards for support functions
(systems, processes, vendors, etc.)
- Implement annual functional improvement plans,
monitor the effectiveness of the risk management and
internal control system by means of process risk
assessments and internal audits, and regularly discuss
the findings with the Executive Committee member
responsible
Independent audits for all operational units are conducted
by the Corporate Operational Audit (COA) department. The
Director of COA reports to the CFO and has access to the
Chairman of the Managing Board, the external auditor and
the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board. Furthermore,
the Director of COA acts as the compliance officer regarding
inside information and is also the secretary of the
Disclosure Committee, as well as being chair of the DSM
Alert Committee, which is responsible for our whistleblower
policy, systems and processes.
Chaired by the CFO, the Disclosure Committee ensures the
timely and accurate disclosure of share-price-sensitive
information related to the company and is responsible for
the implementation of company rules on the holding and
execution of transactions in the company's financial
instruments, among other things.
A third committee at corporate level is the Fraud Committee,
which was installed to ensure structural follow-up of fraud
cases with the aim of reducing fraud exposure. Relevant
corporate functions participate in the Fraud Committee,
which is chaired by the CFO.
Sustainability Governance Framework
Managing Board
Sustainability fa lls under the responsibility of the Managing
Board. While CEO/Chairman of the Managing Board Feike
Sijbesma is the primary point of contact, other members
also chair sustainability topics and initiatives. In addition,
the specific actions in our climate action agenda are owned
by members of the Managing Board and Executive
Committee.
In 2019, Mr. Sijbesma oversaw sustainability as a key
responsibility and company value as well as a driver of
business growth. He also oversaw our engagement with
organizations including the United Nations and the World
Bank, our strategic partnership with the World EconomicForum, and our nutrition-related initiatives, including the
WFP partner
ship. Within the climate action agenda, he was
responsible for our product portfolio impact measurement
upgrade and climate advocacy efforts, and for upgrading
our emissions reduction targets together with Dimitri de
Vreeze.
Our CFO, Geraldine Matchett, integrated sustainability into
financial decision-making and represented DSM in the
Accounting for Sustainability (A4S) CFO Leadership Network.
She also oversaw our efforts and commitment toward the
Taskforce for Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
recommendations, and chaired the Inclusion & Diversity
Council. Within the climate action agenda, she was
responsible for integrating climate risks into our risk
management process, TCFD, carbon pricing and developing
our engagement with climate-focused investors.
Mr. de Vreeze was responsible for Safety, Health and
Environment (SHE) and also oversaw our Sustainable
Procurement Program and the sourcing of electricity from
renewable sources in his responsibility for the Sourcing
function. Within the climate action agenda, he was
responsible for upgrading our emissions reduction targets
in line with a 1.5°C ambition together with Mr. Sijbesma.
Supervisory Board
Our Supervisory Boar d has its own Sustainability Committee
to oversee progress against targets and to report on the
embedding of sustainability across the organization. For
more details, see 'Supervisory Board Report' on page 123.
External Sustainability Advisory Board
Comprising a diverse international group of thought
le
aders, DSM's Sustainability Advisory Board acts as a
sparring partner for the Managing Board and senior
executives, to help sharpen their focus on strategic issues,
deepen their understanding of external stakeholder needs,
conduct advocacy and handle dilemmas. This board met
once in 2019 together with the Managing Board and a
number of senior executives. Subjects addressed included
business updates, climate change and market disruption,
carbon avoidance or capture, and Purpose-led Innovation.
The board also participated as table hosts during our multi-
stakeholder event 'It's no longer business as usual', held at
the New York Public Library (New York, USA) exploring the
role of business in society, adjacent to the UN General
Assembly and the Climate Action Summit. There were no
changes to the composition of this board in 2019. The board
maintains a good balance of knowledge across our three
focus domains and a diverse composition in terms of
gender and nationality.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 111 www.dsm.comSustainability Advisory Board
Member Background
Robin Chase (f) Co-founder and former CEO of Zipcar, co-founder of Veniam and the New Urban Mobility
Allianc e
, board member of the World Resources Institute, and Tucows, and serves as an
informal advisor to many cities, national governments, and transport agencies on the transition
to shared automated vehicles. Nationality: American.
Ertharin Cousin (f) Distinguished Fellow with The Chicago Council on Global Affairs, visiting scholar at Stanford
Univer
sity and Trustee on the UK based Power of Nutrition Board of Directors. She served as
the twelfth Executive Director of the United Nations World Food Programme from 2012 to 2017.
Nationality: American.
Paul Gilding (m) Social entrepreneur, author and corporate strategy advisor. Fellow at the University of
Cambridg
e Institute for Sustainability Leadership (UK). Author of The Great Disruption
(Bloomsbury, London, 2011). Executive director of Greenpeace International during the 1990s.
Nationality: Australian.
David King (m) Senior Strategic Adviser to the President of Rwanda since May 2018. Partner at SYSTEMIQ since
2017
. Special representative for climate change of the UK government from 2013 to 2017. From
2008 to 2012, served as the founding director of the Smith School of Enterprise and the
Environment at the University of Oxford (UK). Chief Scientific Advisor to the UK government
2000–2007. Nationality: British.
Ndidi Nwuneli (f) Social entrepreneur and Founder of LEAP Africa and co-founder of AACE Food Processing &
Distribution L
td. (AACE Foods), an indigenous agro-processing company in Nigeria. She is also
the managing partner of Sahel Consulting Agriculture & Nutrition, which works across Africa,
transforming the nutrition and agriculture landscapes, via innovative ecosystem solutions.
Nationality: Nigerian.
Ye Qi (m) Director of the Institute for Public Policy at Hong Kong University of Science and Technology,
and Cheung K
ong Professor of Environmental Policy at Tsinghua University in Beijing (China).
Before joining Tsinghua, he taught at Beijing Normal University, and the University of California
at Berkeley (California, USA). Nationality: American.
Global network
At a corpor
ate level, sustainability is steered by our
Sustainability Leadership Team, a group of senior
executives representing the business groups and
contributing corporate functions, which is chaired by the
Vice President Sustainability. He leads the Corporate
Sustainability department and reports directly to Mr.
Sijbesma. The Corporate Sustainability staff function as a
business-oriented center of excellence and partner on
sustainability, internally and externally.
The Sustainability Leadership Team meets quarterly to
monitor the progress of sustainability across the company,
with particular emphasis on steering our business and
innovation portfolio in relation to key drivers. Regional
operational sustainability networks are in place in China,
India, Latin America and North America.DSM Operations & Responsible Care has responsibility for
all c
orporate issues related to SHE. The Senior Vice
President DSM Operations & Responsible Care reports
directly to the Managing Board. SHE managers provide
support at business group level. Our SHE Council, which
includes all business group SHE managers, is instrumental
in sharing experiences and developing best practices and
communications on SHE issues.
Ms. Matchett has appointed a finance executive to lead a
taskforce addressing the recommendations of the Taskforce
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). The
taskforce, comprising representatives from finance, risk
management, sustainability, and investor relations, works
with functions such as strategy, operations and
procurement, to define what is needed to meet our TCFD
commitments. This Taskforce convened in 2019 to define our
approach to scenario analysis. It considered distinct
approaches for physical and transition risks, as well as how
we can further integrate climate-related risks into the risk
management process. For more information, see
'Sustainability statements — TCFD' on page 162.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 112 www.dsm.comCorporate governance and risk management - DSM Code of Business Conduct
DSM Code of Business Conduct
The DS
M Code of Business Conduct ('the Code') serves as an umbrella for several other DSM regulations and forms the basis
for our company's ethical business behavior. Our purpose, core values, ways of working and business principles are an integral
part of the Code. The business principles translate our purpose into important do's and don'ts to guide our business
operations in daily practice. All DSM employees are expected to follow the Code, which is available in seven languages. The
full text also appears on the company website. The Managing Board holds DSM's unit management accountable for compliance.
Certiﬁcation 
via e-learning for:
All employeesCode of 
B
usiness
ConductResponsible 
Care
Data PrivacySpeciﬁc target
audiencesDSM Code of Business Conduct 
and values tr
aining program
Respectful
 B
ehavior
Competition 
LawAnti-Bribery 
& Co
rruptionTrade 
Contro
lsOur purpose
Code of
 Business Conduct:
17 principles
Security &
Cyber Fra
udLife Saving
Rules
Training and awareness
The DS M v
alues training program contains several
e-learning courses to explain the Code and a number of its
business principles in more detail. These courses are aimed
at raising awareness for ethical business behavior and are
assigned to all employees or, for certain subject matter, to
specific target audiences. When DSM acquires a business,
integration and compliance plans are rolled out to make
sure new employees are trained.
A review team, chaired by the Vice President Group Risk
Management, monitors the internal and external
developments around corporate ethics to promote and
safeguard the company's values and reputation. The review
team also monitors implementation of the DSM values
training program (see table Implementation of the DSM
values below). At year-end, most employees had completed
or refreshed their training (excluding employees of some
recently acquired businesses). Our learning management
system also has an external portal to enable relevant
contractors and other third parties to follow courses of
the DSM values training program.
The DSM values training program covers the three
dimensions of People, Planet and Profit. An overview of
the courses and the changes in 2019 is listed here, as well
as a number of important implementation measures.
People
The Life Saving Rules specify the 12 most important rules
that must be foll
owed by all employees to preventincidents. In the revision of the Life Saving Rules, improved
standar
ds for warehouse safety and hot work have been
included. The corresponding e-learning course was
completely revised and relaunched in 2019.
The Unlawful Harassment Prevention e-learning was
succeeded by the new Respectful Behavior e-learning in
2019. This course emphasizes the importance of diversity
and inclusiveness, and promotes respectful behavior as
well as active bystander behavior to foster effective
employee relations, communications, and non-
discriminatory practices. The course is available in seven
languages and is mandatory for all our employees. The
Unlawful Harassment Prevention e-learning remains
available for specific target groups.
The DSM Privacy Codes prescribe mandatory training for
Privacy Officers, P&O employees, legal counsels and
employees who regularly work with personal data. This is
provided in the Data Privacy Knowledge course, which is
available in English. In addition to this, concise e-learnings
are in place to train all our employees on the consequences
of the new European General Data Protection Regulation.
These short courses are available in seven languages.
Planet
The Basic Course Responsible Care addresses the elements
of the R
esponsible Care Program: Safety, Health, and
Environment; Product Stewardship; Security; and
Sustainability. The course is available in seven languages.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 113 www.dsm.comProfit
The c our
se for Global Competition Law Principles and
Practices addresses the main principles of anti-trust
legislation and is available in six languages. Employees for
whom competition laws are most relevant must also follow
the Competition Law classroom training (available in six
languages) and annually confirm their compliance with
the rules via a Competition Law Compliance Statement. In
this statement, they confirm that they are not aware of any
violation of competition laws by DSM. Alleged breaches are
reported to, and discussed with, Group Legal Affairs. In 2019,
no breaches were reported.
The course for Global Trade Controls (available in English)
explains the most important aspects of international trade
legislation. Compliance with trade controls is embedded
in our systems and processes. Company master data is
screened to check customers and suppliers against
embargoes and lists of sanctioned parties.
The DSM Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABC) e-learning
provides training on the most important features of bribery
and corrupt behavior and is available in six languages. In
addition, the DSM ABC Policy and Compliance Manual
(available in English and Chinese) is shared with selected
employees in commercial and business roles, who must
also follow ABC classroom training (integrated into the
Competition Law classroom program, available in six
languages). The ABC due diligence program for DSM agents
and distributors was further implemented during 2019.
The Security e-learning covers our seven Key Security
Behaviors. To complete this e-learning, employees are
required to read and sign off on the DSM Code of Conduct
for Information Security. The Cyber Fraud Awareness
e-learning, introduced in 2018, is an additional training to
increase awareness among all employees regarding
prevalent types of cybercrime. Both courses are available
in seven languages. Furthermore, phishing tests are
regularly carried out to ensure that our people stay alert.
We also have rules to prevent misuse of inside information
on the holding of or trading in DSM financial instruments,
such as shares and other securities, and where applicable
the holding of or trading in financial instruments of other
companies. These rules apply to all relevant employees,
including the Executive Committee, the Managing Board,
and the Supervisory Board. A new system was implemented
in 2019, that enables us to secure compliance with Market
Abuse Regulations in a more efficient way.
Value chain
The business principles most relevant to our supply chain
are br
ought together in the Supplier Code of Conduct and
are also structured along the three dimensions of People,Planet and Pr ofit. The Supplier Code of Conduct, available
in eight languages on the company website, is signed off by
suppliers in framework contracts, confirming their
commitment to sustainability, among other things.
For our distributor and agent framework contracts, the ABC
Policy is translated into terms and conditions to ensure
ethical business conduct when these parties act on behalf
of DSM or deal with DSM products further down the value
chain.
Consequence management
We apply zero-tolerance consequence management to
violations of the C
ode. Under our whistleblower procedure
(DSM Alert), most (potential) violations are reported to and
dealt with by local line management. Where this is not
considered appropriate, complaints are made directly to
the DSM Alert Officer. In both cases, consequence
management practices (e.g., official warning, temporary
suspension, dismissal) are in place for substantiated
violations to support compliance with the Code. The DSM
Alert Officer reports to the Managing Board and also reports
independently to the Audit Committee of the Supervisory
Board twice a year. Any individual not employed by DSM who
might wish to voice a concern regarding violations of the
Code may also contact the DSM Alert Officer via the
company website.
In 2019, 26 Alert cases (reports of potential violations of
the Code) were received by the DSM Alert Officer, two of
which were reported by an external party. This is at the same
level as in previous years. Three of these were potential
bribery and corruption cases. After investigation, two Alert
cases were substantiated and consequence management
was applied.
The table below gives an overview of all reported
substantiated violations of the Code (including Alert cases),
with a breakdown by Triple P dimension and region. Proven
violations result in dismissal or other forms of consequence
management. In line with this policy, 42 employees were
dismissed in 2019 because of breaches of the Code, legal or
local company regulations. In addition, 119 employees
received another form of consequence management
(official warning or suspension). Over the years, the number
of dismissal cases has remained about the same, whereas
there is an increase of other kinds of consequence
management cases being reported.
People: Most of the cases in the People dimension relate to
violations of the Life Saving Rules. Inappropriate behavior
that does not contribute to a safe and healthy working
environment (discrimination, sexual and other kinds of
harassment) is also reported in this dimension. Health and
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 114 www.dsm.comCorporate governance and risk management - DSM Code of Business Conduct
safety ar e priorities for the company and incident-reporting
channels ar
e well known.
Planet: There were three violations of the Code reported in
the Planet dimension in 2019 due to irresponsible behavior
on the part of an employee. Two cases led to a minor
environmental incident, the third did not.Profit: Most of the ca ses in the Profit dimension relate to
fraudulent expense claims and incorrect registration of
working hours.
Implementation of the DSM values
2019 2018
Training and awareness e-learning: % of targeted employees trained
General
- Code of Business Conduct 94% 90%
People
- Life Saving Rules 95% 95%
- Unlawful Harassment Prevention (up and until Q3 2019)
-R
espectful Behavior (as of Q4 2019)95%
-97%
-
- Data Privacy Knowledge 95% 93%
Planet
- Basic Course Responsible Care 97% 95%
Profit
- Global Trade Controls 95% 96%
- Anti-Bribery and Corruption 96% 95%
- Security
-C
yber Fraud Awareness97%
96%94%
93%
Competition Law: % of targeted employees having signed
- DSM Annual Competition Law Compliance Statement 100% 100%
Violations of the Code: 161 154
Number of dismissals / other consequence management
Triple P breakdown
- People 27/104 22/90
- Planet 1/2 0/1
-Profit 14/13 20/21
Regional breakdown
- Europe & Africa 13/53 14/45
- Americas 22/61 20/48
-Asia–Pacific 7/5 8/19
Total 42/119 42/112
Alert cases (whistleblower procedure): 26 28
Number substantiated / not substantiated / under investigation
Triple P breakdown
- People 6/14/1 2/10/2
- Planet 0/0/0 0/0/0
-Profit 2/2/1 7/5/2
Regional breakdown
- Europe & Africa 1/5/0 2/4/1
- Americas 5/6/0 1/4/2
-Asia–Pacific 2/5/2 6/7/1
Total 8/16/2 9/15/41
1 The four Alert cases 'under investigation' in 2018 were resolved in 2019: one was substantiated, three were not.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 115 www.dsm.comRisk management
The Mana
ging Board is accountable for the management of all risks associated with our company's strategy and activities. To
this end, appropriate risk management and internal control systems are in place. The responsibility for identifying and
managing risks lies with DSM's individual units.
The units are supported by the Group Risk Management (GRM) department and are regularly assessed by the Corporate
Operational Audit (COA) department. Both GRM and COA report directly to the CFO, and COA has direct access to the CEO as
well as to the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board.
Audit 
C
ommitteeEnterprise Risk 
Management 
COA audits
Internal Control Framework
C
orporate & Unit Risk Assessments
Mitigating actionsPurpose
Core Values 
CoBC
RM Committees
RM Year Plan 
Training, Annual Report 
WebsiteControl activities & 
Monit
oringEffectiveness assessmentMission /
Int
ernal environment
Risk assessment 
a
nd responseInformation and
c
ommunicationStrategy/
Objective settingDSM Risk Management Cycle
Risk Appetite
C
orporate & Business Strategy
Corporate Requirements
System of Internal Controls
Internal/External Audits 
Letter of Representation 
A well-embedded risk management and internal control
sy
stem and accompanying organization are in place in all
units. This approach is based on the COSO-ERM1 framework.
This chapter is structured accordingly (see 'DSM Risk
Management Cycle' above).
It is the responsibility of the business groups, support
functions, functional excellence departments and regions
within DSM (the units) to set up, operate, maintain and
monitor an appropriate risk management and internal
control system within their area of responsibility. This
responsibility includes the identification and management
of risks. The units are supported in this by risk managers.
GRM performs independent reviews based on a set of
defined key controls. COA closes the loop through regular
assessments of the design and operational effectiveness
of the risk management and internal control system.Mission / Internal environment
Our purpose, c
ore values and business principles are key
elements of the internal environment for risk management
and form the starting point of the risk management cycle.
Our core values are directly related to our purpose of
creating brighter lives for all. All our employees receive
regular training on values and business principles in line
with the Code of Business Conduct.
Strategy / Objective setting
Following the establishment of the corporate strategy, the
Exec
utive Committee decides on the risk appetite, which is
reviewed annually. In 2019, our risk appetite regarding
'Generic/strategic' risks shifted slightly to 'Open/Hungry'
(see figure below).
1Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission — Enterprise Risk Management.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 116 www.dsm.comCorporate governance and risk management - Risk management
DSM’s risk appetite
Generic/strategic
(e.g., Innovation, People/organization/culture, 
Intellectual property
, Raw materials/energy, Price/availability, 
Acquisitions and partnerships, Divestments, Brand)
Operational
(e.g., Reputation, Customer, Project management, Production 
process, (Information-) Security, Business continuity, 
Product liability
, Safety, Health and Environment)
Financial and reporting
(e.g., Liquidity and market, Reporting integrity, Pensions, 
Financial risks e.g., credit
, tax)
Legal and compliance
(e.g., Legal non-compliance, Non-compliance with DSM 
Requirements)Averse Minimalist Cau tious Open Hungry
In line with the corporate strategy, the corporate
requir
ements are defined and maintained. The corporate
requirements provide:
- Risk-based guidance for managing common business
and process risks
- Standards to increase the efficiency of our main
processes
Risk assessment and response
Risk assessments are carried out at various levels in the
org
anization. We take a standard but flexible, seven-step
approach to risk assessments:
- Risk assessment planning
- Preparation
- Risk identification and clustering
- Risk rating
- Evaluation and risk response
- Reporting
- Periodic monitoring and reviewing
Both short-term risks (up to and including three years) and
emerging risks (3–30 years) in the risk areas Generic/
strategic, Operational, Financial and reporting and Legal
and compliance are the focus of our risk assessments. To
continuously improve the effectiveness of our risk
assessment process, a Risk Assessment Manual is made
available and a risk assessment training program for the
facilitation and execution of risk assessments is rolled out.
Corporate Risk Assessment
We periodica lly conduct a Corporate Risk Assessment (CRA),
which is the responsibility of the Managing Board. As part
of this assessment, the Executive Committee (EC) reviews
and agrees on the short-term top risks as well as emerging
risks. The EC also agrees on how to mitigate and monitor
these. The outcome of the CRA is reported to, and discussedwith, the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board
annuall
y, see 'Top risks' table on page 120.
Unit Risk Assessments
The DSM units (the business groups, support functions,
functional e
xcellence departments and regions) also
conduct various types of risk assessments. Most risk
assessments are carried out by cross-functional teams.
These teams include experienced facilitators as well as
experts who can challenge assumptions in order to help
improve the quality of these risk assessments.
Business Risk Assessments focus on risks that could
jeopardize the attainment of our strategic goals.
Process Risk Assessments are intended to make our
processes as robust and fraud-proof as possible.
Project Risk Assessments focus on specific projects and are
updated throughout project execution to secure successful
delivery of project objectives and value creation for the
company.
Complementing the above, additional specific risk
assessments may be performed for areas such as Safety,
Health, Environment, Climate, Security and topics such as
complex organizational changes.
Control activities
Control activities are  performed at all levels of the company,
at various stages within the business processes. They are
preventive or investigative in nature and may encompass
a range of manual and (semi-) automated controls such as
policies, procedures, authorizations, verifications and
business performance reviews. These controls also help us
to avoid fraud and reputational damage and support the
statements of the Managing Board.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 117 www.dsm.comWe apply a standard approach for monitoring Enterprise
Resour
ce Planning (ERP) system access controls, user
provisioning, privileged user management and Segregation
of Duties for the majority of our units.
Monitoring activities
At different levels and within different functions in the
org
anization monitoring activities are performed, such as:
- The execution of the standard key controls as included
in our Internal Control Framework (ICF) is monitored by
unit management. Group Risk Management (GRM)
additionally provides independent testing of the
effectiveness of those key controls, and evaluates the
impact of control deficiencies
- Total risk overview is reported by the units via the Letter
of Representation (LoR) process. The units report on
compliance with applicable laws and regulations, our
Code of Business Conduct, corporate policies and
corporate requirements and related risks, besides more
generic/strategic risks. The review also tracks progress
in the implementation of defined mitigation actions as
well as monitoring incidents that occurred during the
year
- Tracking of timely completion of DSM values training
- Review of incidents, fraud cases, Alert cases, results from
phishing tests and the cybersecurity dashboard
- Peer audits on specific topics, such as the Purchase to
Pay process and SHE
- Audits by customers, suppliers, or other external audits
The outcome of the monitoring activities is regularly
discussed in unit risk management committees and the
Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board to evaluate and
manage the risk profile of the units and of the company as
a whole.
Information and communication
We strive for an open communication culture and have
various channels f
or communicating risk data and
information both internally and externally. These channels
enable our organization to provide relevant information for
decision-making, such as the status of the risk profile and
the effectiveness of the risk management system.
Discussions of risks are integrated into normal business
discussions, as these are an intrinsic part of doing business.
However, certain specific structures are in place to ensure
that special attention is paid to parts of the risk
management cycle:
- The risk management committees of the units
- The global fraud committee
- The global issue committee- The Alert procedure
- Dedic
ated discussions with the EC on the CRA and the
outcome of the LoR process
- The Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board
Effectiveness assessment
We use a three-lines-of-defense model to manage risks
effectiv
ely.
First line: the responsibility for identifying and managing
risks, including all internal controls activities, lies with the
individual units.
Second line: GRM designs, implements and maintains the
overall risk management framework for the company. GRM
assesses the overall effectiveness of the risk management
and internal control activities and provides insight into
the overall risk profile of the company. GRM also supports
the first line of defense in risk identification and
management by designing and developing standards,
systems and tools. Besides GRM, there are also other
departments acting as a second line of defense, for
instance, DSM Operations & Responsible Care
(Manufacturing, SHE & Security), and Group Control &
Accounting.
Third line: COA conducts independent audits/reviews, some
of these being unannounced. The scope and frequency of
COA audits is set according to the ranking of the auditable
units in terms of the magnitude of risk, based on a limited
number of defined characteristics. This program is agreed
by the EC and the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board.
Enhancement of the risk management system
During 2019, the following main improvements were made
to our risk mana
gement framework:
- We further strengthened the ICF with the support of all
business groups, GRM and all support functions. The
maturity of both the activities of the first and second line
of defense was increased. Additionally, more legal
entities adopted ICF standards
- A new values training was launched on 'Respectful
Behavior', which is mandatory for all employees
- Due to the addition of two new Life Saving Rules (LSR),
'Transport and Warehouse Safety' and 'Hot Work', the LSR
training was updated accordingly
- GRM and COA expanded their review of fraud cases,
incidents, COA findings, and Alert cases to also identify
trends, underline root causes and define mitigating
actions
- We improved the LoR process by giving more guidance
on the reporting and the description of short-term risks
and emerging risks
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 118 www.dsm.comCorporate governance and risk management - Risk management
DSM risk pr ofil e
The risk management activities as performed by the first
line of defense as well as the reviews/audits conducted by
the second and third line of defense in 2019 did not indicate
any material failings in the design and effectiveness of our
risk management and internal control system.
The consolidated overview of all the aforementioned is
the basis for the 'Statements of the Managing Board' at
the end of this risk management section.
Top risks
The table below shows the four most important risks that
might pre
vent us from achieving the targets defined in
Strategy 2021, including the actions that we are taking to
reduce our exposure further. These risks are labeled as Top
risks as the exposure on DSM's EBITDA is an indicative
€ 30 million or more, or because they have a major non-
financial impact such as on reputation.
Emerging risks
The following emerging risks have been identified by the
Ex
ecutive Committee. Where relevant, actions have been
defined to anticipate them in a timely manner.
Emerging risk 1: Our Nutrition and Materials markets may
be disrupted by longer-term changes driven by:
- New food preferences / food systems
- Climate transition risks impacting our end-markets, such
as animal protein
- Innovations such as 3D printing
- New mobility and transport optionsThis could create a risk if the speed of change in the world
is higher than our speed of adaptation t
o it.
Emerging risk 2: We may not be able to adjust our own
operations and supply chain fast enough to deal with
environmental and climate risks (both physical and
transition risks).
Emerging risk 3: Risk of increasing polarization in the world.
This could lead to new legislation and new regulations
having a negative impact for DSM (such as increasing
taxation, trade barriers, and labor costs).
At the same time, these emerging risks will also offer new
opportunities for our Brighter Living Solutions.
Other important risks
Besides the top risks and the emerging risks, there are also
specific market
-related risks. For example, our Animal
Health & Nutrition business was impacted by outbreaks of
livestock diseases in 2019. Although our market position and
product portfolio allow us to take advantage of
opportunities arising in other geographical areas as well as
from other species, the impact might not fully be offset.
There are also more generic business risks, such as business
continuity, sourcing, product liability, intellectual property,
tax and digitalization risks. Our risk management and
internal control system is setup to adequately monitor and
respond to these risks.
We did not identify any significant company-specific risks
associated with Brexit and the ongoing trade war between
the US and China, other than the general uncertainties
around, for example, currency and other economic
developments.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 119 www.dsm.comTop risks, status and related mitigating actions in progress
People, organization and culture
There is a risk that we might not be abl e  to attract, retain and develop the workforce required to deliver on our strategy, to deliver above-
market growth and retain strong operational efficiency. Progress has been made to create a more international and diverse workforce
and steps have been taken to build more inclusive, agile and high-performing teams. In the current labor market, attracting and retaining
talents with the right level of expertise, background and mindset requires constant attention and efforts and therefore we still consider
this a top risk.
Further mitigations: All business groups have customer-centricity programs running, including upgrading the sales force and evolving to
become a more agile organization. We are building competences to improve our understanding of (local) markets — for example, through
setting up specialist functions in Animal Nutrition & Health to address a wider range of species and to pursue new health solutions.
Product portfolio and purpose-driven growth
There is a risk that we might not be able to deliver above-average organic growth aligned to our strategic targets. We are continuously
inv
esting in our existing product portfolio and in large innovation projects, and focus on growth opportunities in the domains Nutrition
& Health, Climate & Energy and Resources & Circularity. Top innovation projects are closely monitored, with a well-established stage-
gate approach and regular status reviews with the Executive Committee. Despite the processes in place, time-to-market remains uncertain.
We also aim to execute value-creating M&A, predominantly in nutrition, to further develop our portfolio. All M&A activities are managed
centrally, and staffing is available to support flawless integration. However, as distraction from the running business cannot fully be
prevented and as the time-to-market remains uncertain, especially for large innovation projects, this is still a top risk for us.
Further mitigations: Where possible, the success rate and time-to-market of running innovation projects is improved via customer
and/or innovation alliances. To support our innovation efforts, projects are running to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of our
R&D activities by applying digital technologies.
Market environment and competitive position
There is a risk that we might not meet our strategic targets due to increasing competition, especially from low-cost/margin players.
Theref
ore, we have created a streamlined and simplified business portfolio and a good platform for growth. As a result of continued
investments in innovation and acquisitions, our product and service portfolio has broadened, which allows us to serve a broader customer
base better and to differentiate ourselves from our competition.
To maintain our cost position, we continue to take inefficiencies out of the value chain by applying the DSM Integral Continuous
Improvement (DICI) approach. We have expanded different capacities in a cost-effective way, for example, the vitamin E capacity added
through our joint venture with Nenter. Nonetheless, the risk remains of facing increased competition for some product-market
combinations.
Further mitigations: To differentiate ourselves from our competitors, we continue to expand our product portfolios so as to address
emerging market needs, such as bio-based materials and plant-based nutritional products. Customer excellence projects will be set up
to improve the end-to-end experience for our customers.
Operating in a digital world
There is a risk that we might be negatively impacted by cybercrime, and therefore we continued to strengthen our cybersecurity in 2019.
Foll
owing risk assessments, a multi-year program is being rolled out focusing on improving our cybersecurity capabilities in three areas:
information technology, operations technology, and R&D laboratory systems. The program is addressing cyber security by looking at risk
identification, protection, detection, response and recovery taking account of people, technology and process dimensions.
As cyberthreats continue to develop and become more sophisticated, and with the increase of the number of digital initiatives within
DSM, the risk remains despite the progress made in this area.
Further mitigations: We will continue the implementation of our multi-year cybersecurity program. In parallel, additional projects are
planned for 2020, including a new cybersecurity awareness campaign, and putting improved monitoring and reporting in place.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 120 www.dsm.comCorporate governance and risk management - Statements of the Managing Board
Statements of the Managing Board
The Mana ging Bo
ard is responsible for the design and
operation of the internal risk management and control
systems. In discharging this responsibility, the Managing
Board has made a systematic assessment of the
effectiveness of the design and operation of the internal
control and risk management systems.
On the basis of this report and in accordance with best
practice 1.4.3 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code of
December 2016, and Article 5:25c of the Financial
Supervision Act, the aforementioned assessment and the
current state of affairs, to the best of its knowledge and
belief, the Managing Board confirms that:
- The internal risk management and control systems of
the company provide reasonable assurance that
financial reporting does not contain any material
inaccuracies
- There have been no material failings in the effectiveness
of the internal risk management and control systems of
the company
- There are no material risks or uncertainties that could
reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect
on the continuity of DSM's operations in the coming
twelve months
- There is a reasonable expectation that DSM will be able
to continue its operations and meet its liabilities for at
least twelve months, therefore it is appropriate to adopt
the going concern basis in preparing the financial
reportingIt should be noted that the above does not imply that these
s
ystems and procedures provide absolute assurance as to
the realization of operational and strategic business
objectives, or that they can prevent all misstatements,
inaccuracies, errors, fraud and non-compliances with
legislation, rules and regulations. Nor can they provide
certainty that we will achieve our objectives.
In view of all of the above, the Managing Board confirms
that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, the financial
statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities,
financial position and profit or loss of the company, and that
the management report includes a fair review of the
position at the balance sheet date and the development
and performance of the business during the financial year,
together with a description of the principal risks and
uncertainties that the company faces.
Heerlen, 26 February 2020
The Managing Board
Geraldine Matchett, Co-CEO
Dimitri de Vreeze, Co-CEO
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 121 www.dsm.comReport b y the Supervisory Board
Intr
oduction by the Chair
"We are very grateful for Feike's tremendous
contribution t
o DSM. He has demonstrated that a
company can deliver financial and sustainability
returns while creating value and purpose for all its
stakeholders."
Rob Routs, Chair of the Supervisory Board
Dear reader,
The y e
ar 2019 was a special one for my colleagues and me
on the Supervisory Board. With Feike indicating, after 20
years on the Managing Board and almost 13 years as CEO,
that he intended to step down, we went through the process
of identifying and announcing his successor. While we were
in this process, DSM delivered a good financial performance
in 2019, while also engaging in quite some M&A activity. All
in all, it was an intense year, as indicated by our increased
meeting frequency, and we are proud of how our company
navigated all of this.
Under Feike's visionary leadership, we have gone through
a significant transformation, from a bulk chemicals
company into one focused on Nutrition, Health and
Sustainable Living, generating a Total Shareholder Return
of about 400%. During the course of more than a decade we
have significantly expanded our nutrition business,
divested our non-core bulk chemical activities, and
upgraded our Materials portfolio. Our company
transformed itself into a financially healthy, high-
performing, sustainable, and innovative company. Today,
DSM is a truly global company with a diverse and engaged
employee and leadership base, creating value for all our
stakeholders. We are very grateful for Feike's tremendous
contribution to DSM. He has demonstrated that a company
can deliver financial and sustainability returns while
creating value and purpose for all stakeholders. We all wish
him the very best for the future.
After a thorough process and external benchmarking,
including the advice and input of an international search
firm, we concluded that we had the very best candidates in-
house. The Supervisory Board therefore decided to appoint
both Geraldine and Dimitri, Feike's two Managing Board
colleagues, in a joint leadership as Co-CEOs. Together with
Feike, they have driven the transformation and successes
of the business in a highly collaborative and effective way,
creating considerable value for all stakeholders. Together,
they will maintain the focus on business performance,
financial discipline, innovation, sustainability, and people,
as DSM continues its journey. This joint leadership structure
is rooted in the long history of their collaboration, which wehave keenly observed over the years, and is expected to
cre
ate a strong basis for continued profitable growth. In
conjunction with their Co-CEO role, Geraldine Matchett will
retain her responsibilities as CFO and Dimitri de Vreeze will
hold the COO responsibilities.
DSM reported a good financial performance in 2019, and
achieved key milestones in the first year of Strategy 2021.
Besides organic growth, part of Strategy 2021 is inorganic
growth, predominantly in Nutrition. As a Supervisory Board,
we spent a considerable amount of time discussing M&A
strategy, developments in our sectors and opportunities. We
are pleased with the additions to the company we were able
to make this year: the expansion of our share in Andre
Pectin, the creation of a 75:25 partnership with Nenter, and
the acquisitions of AVA, Royal CSK and SRF. We look forward
to next steps in this area.
As this Report also shows, DSM wants to deliver on People,
Planet and Profit. In all areas, great strides were again made
in 2019 as described throughout this Report. Within People,
there is one topic that always has our close attention, which
is Safety. This is a core value at DSM and very close to our
hearts as a Supervisory Board. We discussed the safety
performance at each and every meeting in 2019, trying to
help the Executive Committee with our own experiences
and best practices, and understanding the trends in the
indicators. Although every incident in 2019 was still one too
many, as a Supervisory Board we are very happy to see an
improved safety performance in 2019. As Board members,
we will continue to focus on safety going forward, as this is
a topic that requires continuous commitment every day.
Looking back at 2019, we are again grateful to all the
employees and the leadership of the company for what they
have delivered and how they have delivered it. It was again
a good year for DSM, and our gratitude also goes to the
many stakeholders who continue to place their trust in our
company. DSM's businesses are well positioned to capitalize
on many strong fundamental growth drivers related to the
world’s most pressing challenges, and DSM expects its large
innovation programs to begin to contribute in 2020, and to
further expand during 2021 and beyond.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 122 www.dsm.comReport by the Supervisory Board
Supervisory Board Report
This R eport pr
ovides further information on the way the
Supervisory Board performed its duties in 2019. This
concerns supervising the policy pursued by the Managing
Board, the Managing Board's performance of its managerial
duties, and the general course of affairs within our company
and its businesses, as well as assisting the Managing Board
with advice, either upon request or proactively. Finally,
these duties also include assessing the Managing Board's
performance and ensuring that their remuneration is in line
with that performance and that it provides the appropriate
incentives. Since the inception of an Executive Committee,
the Supervisory Board has also been responsible for
ensuring that the checks and balances that are part of the
two-tier governance system are still taken into account,
paying specific attention to the dynamics between the
Managing Board and the Executive Committee.
The responsibility of supervising the policy pursued by
the Managing Board includes evaluating the way the
Managing Board implements DSM's strategy for long-term
value creation and promotes a culture aimed at that value.
Since the company's mission is to create brighter lives for
all, long-term value creation is embedded both in Strategy
2021: Growth & Value - Purpose led, Performance driven and
in our company culture. This is described in the chapters
'Strategy 2021' on page 16, 'People' on page 40 and
'Corporate governance and risk management' on page 106.
Composition of the Supervisory Board
The composition of DSM's Supervisory Board is diverse in
gender
, nationality, background, knowledge and experience.
The Board comprises four men and four women. Two
members are Dutch, two American, one Dutch-American,
one British, one Singaporean and one Australian. The
Board's current members are Rob Routs (Chair), Pauline van
der Meer Mohr (Deputy Chair), Victoria Haynes, Eileen
Kennedy, Frits van Paasschen, Pradeep Pant, John Ramsay
and Erica Mann. For detailed information on their
backgrounds, see the company website and 'Supervisory
Board and Managing Board Royal DSM' on page 142 of this
Report.
Following best practice 2.1.10 of the Dutch Corporate
Governance Code, the Supervisory Board establishes that
its members are able to act critically and independently of
one another, the Managing Board and any particular
interests involved. To safeguard this, the Supervisory Board
is composed in such a way that all its members are
independent in the meaning of best practice 2.1.8 of the
Dutch Corporate Governance Code.
The targeted profile of the Supervisory Board is reflected
in its regulations, which are published on thecompany website under 'Corporate Governance'. The
Supervisory Boar
d has four committees to cover key areas
in greater detail: auditing, nominations (to the Supervisory
Board and Managing Board), remuneration (of the
Supervisory Board and Managing Board), and sustainability.
Information on these committees is given elsewhere in this
chapter. The charters of the committees are published on
the company website under 'Corporate Governance'.
Relationship and stakeholder management
In performing its duties, the Supervisory Board acts in
acc
ordance with the interests of the company and the
business connected with it, taking into consideration the
interests of the company's stakeholders. The Chair of the
Supervisory Board is in regular close contact with the
(Co-)CEO(s)/Chairman of the Managing Board, as is the
Chair of the Audit Committee with the CFO.
Furthermore, the Supervisory Board regularly interacts with
members of the Executive Committee who attend
Supervisory Board meetings and participate in the yearly
site visit of the Supervisory Board.
The Supervisory Board interacts with our employees on
various occasions and in various contexts. The Supervisory
Board regularly receives information on relevant topics
from senior leaders and experts in the company during
committee meetings, full Supervisory Board meetings,
annual site visits, and also as part of their ongoing
professional education. In 2019, this was the case with
respect to merger and acquisition opportunities; innovation
in general and large innovation projects like Project Clean
Cow, Veramaris®, Niaga® and fermentative Stevia; and
digital and cybersecurity. During its annual site visit, the
Supervisory Board actively takes the opportunity to interact
with employees at different levels, from the shop floor to
senior leadership, thus collecting valuable information and
insights from various sources across the company.
Direct, one-on-one contact between Supervisory Board
members and Managing Board and Executive Committee
members generally follows naturally from topics discussed
in the meetings of the Supervisory Board. These discussions
draw on the expertise of individual Supervisory Board
members, whose advice is sought on a wide range of
specialist topics as required. Supervisory Board members
also have direct contact with other employees in the course
of site visits and specifically arranged meetings. In 2019,
John Ramsay visited our Global Service Center in Hyderabad
(India) where — given his extensive knowledge and
experience in the field of finance and accounting — he
reviewed various aspects of the captive center's
performance, plans and strategies. Frits van Paasschen
attended an afternoon session with our Chief Digital Officer
and reviewed — in line with his broad experience
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 123 www.dsm.comas a global business leader in both consumer markets and the service industry in various parts of the world — our approach
to 
digital transformation, as well as giving advice on building an external ecosystem of digital advisors. Pradeep Pant, who is
based in Singapore and has extensive knowledge of and experience with Asian markets, continued to be in regular contact
with our senior management in that region.
The Supervisory Board takes an active interest in maintaining a good understanding of our stakeholders and their positions
on various topics related to the company's areas of business. This includes the perceptions of our shareholders. The
Supervisory Board is informed of the position of other DSM stakeholders by the Managing Board. In addition, the Supervisory
Board collects such information through its own network.
DSM Supervisory Board: key data and attendance records
Rob
Routs (C)Pauline van
der Meer
Mohr (DC)Eileen
KennedyVictoria
HaynesPradeep
PantJohn
Rams
ayFrits van
Pa
asschenErica
Mann
Diversity
Year of birth 1946 1960 1947 1947 1953 1957 1961 1958
Gender Male Female Female Female Male Male Male Female
Geography Europe Europe North
Americ aNorth
Americ aAsia Europe Europe /
North
Americ aOceania
Tenure
Initial
appointment 2010 2011 2012 2012 2016 2017 2017 2019
Latest
re
appointment 2018 2019 2016 2016 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
End of
curr
ent term 2020 2021 2020 2020 2020 2021 2021 2023
Reappointment
possibl
e? Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y
Attendance
Committee
member shipsNomCo (C)
RemC
oRemCo (C)
NomC oSustCo (C)
NomC oAC
RemC
oAC
SustC oAC (C)
RemC
oAC
SustC oAC
SustC o
Attendance
SB
meeting s1100% 92%4100% 100% 92%2100% 100% 100%
Attendance
Committ
ee
meetingsNomCo 100%
RemC
o 75%3NomCo 67%
RemC
o 100%4NomCo 100%
SustCo 100%AC 100%
RemC
o 100%AC 100%
SustCo 100%AC 100%
RemC
o 100%AC 100%
SustCo 100%AC 7 5%
SustCo 50%5
1 Attendance is reflect ed for the six Supervisory Board (SB) meetings and seven conference calls held in 2019. In addition to the seven conference calls there were also two
SB calls in 2019 for which the decision-making had been mandated by the SB to the Chair of the Board and the Chair of the Audit Committee, who both attended these calls.
2 Pradeep Pant missed an extra SB call planned at short notice to discuss a project update. Pradeep Pant was updated a day later by the Chair.
3 Due to a misunderstanding regarding timings, Rob Routs did not dial in for one of the Remuneration Committee meetings.
4 Pauline van der Meer Mohr missed the Nomination Committee meeting on 3 December and the SB meeting on 4 December due to a prior commitment.
5 Erica Mann became member of the Supervisory Board following her appointment at the 2019 General Meeting of Shareholders. Erica Mann was unable to participate in
the Audit Committee call on 4 November and the Sustainability Committee of 3 December due to prior commitments.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 124 www.dsm.comReport by the Supervisory Board
DSM Supervisory Board: key competences
Rob
Routs (C)Pauline van
der Meer
Mohr (DC)Eileen
KennedyVictoria
HaynesPradeep
PantJohn
Rams
ayFrits van
Pa
asschenErica
Mann
Competences
General management x x x x x x x x
Finance/
acc
ounting/
auditingx x
Strategy x x x x x x x x
Risk x x x
Marketing & Sales x x x
Operations &
manuf acturingx x x
R&D/
Innov
ation/
Technologyx x x
Safety x x
Sustainability
& en vir
onmentx x x x
Emerging economies x x x x
People & Organization x x x x
IT/digital x
Governance/
complianc
e/
legal affairsx x x x x
Public affairs x x
DSM's businesses x x x x x x
Supervision and advice
The Supervisory Boar
d performs its duties of supervising
and advising the Managing Board with respect both to
recurring standard agenda items for Supervisory Board
meetings and to specific topics that become relevant at any
given point in time.
The most prominent regular agenda item is an update on
business performance, financials and treasury topics. As
part of this agenda item, the Supervisory Board tracks the
company's financial performance, approves the annual
Finance and Capital Expenditure Plan, and deliberates on
any additional treasury topics as needed. In 2019, the
Supervisory Board discussed and approved the € 1 billion
share buy-back program, reflecting the company's strong
balance sheet and resilient business, as well as the usual
share buy-back programs to cover commitments under
share-based compensation plans and the stock dividend.
In line with Strategy 2021, the Supervisory Board regularly
discussed our M&A strategy and relevant developmentswithin our sectors. The Supervisory Board was actively
inv
olved in the process of reviewing several potential M&A
targets. This eventually led to the expansion of our share
in Andre Pectin, the creation of a 75:25 partnership with
Nenter, and the acquisitions of AVA, Royal CSK and SRF.
At the Board's request, the Supervisory Board was updated
on the company's insurances, global manufacturing status,
quality control and quality management, among other
subjects. Digital aiming points and a digital organization are
being rolled out throughout the company, contributing to
digital transformation. Given the importance of
digitalization, the Supervisory Board did a deep dive on
digital. In addition, the Supervisory Board was updated and
involved in DSM's Innovation projects, such as Project Clean
Cow, Veramaris®, Niaga® and fermentative Stevia. A
continuous education session was dedicated to updating
the Supervisory Board on cybersecurity risks, learning from
experiences of other companies. Closing the loop on last
year's visit to India and the Supervisory Board's feedback
following that visit, an updated strategy for DSM in India was
presented.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 125 www.dsm.comDSM Supervisory Board (from left to right): John Ramsay, Erica Mann, Frits van Paasschen, Eileen Kennedy, Pauline van der Meer Mohr (Deputy Chair), Victoria
Haynes, R
ob Routs (Chair) and Pradeep Pant.
Site visits
Ev
ery year, the Supervisory Board visits DSM sites in a
particular region. This fosters interaction with employees
across different areas of the company and provides
Supervisory Board members with opportunities for
continuing education. This year's visit took the Supervisory
Board to Singapore.
The visit provided an overview of the company's presence
in Singapore and the broader South-East Asian (SEA) region.
Drawing on the insights of the internal and external
speakers, the Board was updated on the economic situation
in the region and the opportunities it has to offer. The visit
deepened the Board's understanding of DSM's presence
and business in Singapore and SEA.
The Singapore visit began with a general overview of the
region by a specialist in international relations and an
introduction to the company's activities in Singapore and
SEA. An event was organized for the Supervisory Board
members to meet the company's customers and
stakeholders. The evening included a dialogue on
sustainability and leadership between Feike Sijbesma and
Sunny Verghese (CEO of OLAM International and Chair of
the World Business Council for Sustainable Development).The Bo ard also visited our Singaporean sites (DSM Dyneema
and DS
M Nutritional Products, Human Nutrition & Health).
To stress the importance of customer-centricity and
innovation, the Supervisory Board aims to meet customers
and other stakeholders during each site visit. In Singapore,
the Board visited Schneider's Innovation Hub, the Unilever
Foundry and the headquarters of OLAM International (a
leading food and agro business company). The Board also
met with officials from the Government of Singapore and
the Singapore Economic Development Board, as well as with
A*STAR (the Agency for Science and Technology and
Research).
The visit included a townhall meeting that was audiocast
across our sites in SEA, Japan and Korea.
At the end of the visit, time was taken to reflect on the site
visit with the participating Executive Committee members.
Supervisory Board members shared their impressions and
offered specific advice about doing business in SEA. Both
the Supervisory Board and the Executive Committee
concurred on the relevance of SEA for the company and
the importance of continuing to strengthen our presence
there.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 126 www.dsm.comReport by the Supervisory Board
Supervisory Board meetings and performance evaluation
In 20 19
, the Supervisory Board held its five regular meetings
and one regular call in the presence of the Managing Board,
as well as one additional meeting and six additional calls,
partly in the presence of the Managing Board. The additional
meetings and calls were needed to discuss possible
acquisitions and the CEO succession. Information on
attendance of Board and Committee meetings can be found
in this 'Supervisory Board Report' on page 124.
The Supervisory Board also convenes in the absence of
the Managing Board, which usually happens before each
meeting.
An evaluation of the Supervisory Board is performed once
every three years by an external advisor; this was the case
in 2019. In the other two years, the evaluation of the
Supervisory Board is performed by means of a self-
assessment consisting of a written questionnaire, followed
by in-depth, one-on-one interviews between the Chair and
individual Supervisory Board members.
While the Managing Board's performance is (indirectly) also
assessed as part of the evaluation, this happens throughout
the year as part of the discussions on succession planning
in the Nomination Committee, and particularly when the
performance appraisals of Managing Board members are
discussed, as well as their performance versus their
individual targets in the Remuneration Committee. The
Nomination and Remuneration Committees report back on
these discussions to the Supervisory Board.
The overall feedback from the evaluation in 2019 was
positive. The Supervisory Board used an external firm that
conducts multiple board evaluations and could therefore
benchmark the Board's evaluation against that of other
Boards. It  was pleasing to note that  DSM's Supervisory Board
was among the highest scoring Boards of the 100 most
recently conducted board evaluations. Some points for
improvement were noted, although none of a fundamental
nature. The evaluation delivered the following highlights
and recommendations. All members strongly value the
composition of the Supervisory Board in all its dimensions.
Size and (gender) diversity are to be maintained, as well as
the strong link to Dutch corporate governance. There is a
sense of collegiality and mutual trust, disagreement is
constructive and respectful, and there is preparedness to
challenge, where appropriate, both within the Board and
with management. While the strategic discussions (and
the quality of their preparation) are highly appreciated,
there might be an opportunity to carve out some more time
for 'holistic' reflection. Finally, given the global nature of
the Board, the timing of meetings and calls will benefit from
as much time zone alignment as possible.Committees
The Supervisory Boar
d has four committees to cover key
areas in greater detail: nominations, remuneration,
sustainability and auditing. These are described in more
detail below.
Board nominations
The Nomination Committee comprises Rob Routs (Chair),
Eileen K
ennedy and Pauline van der Meer Mohr. Feike
Sijbesma and Judith Wiese, Executive Vice President Group
People & Organization, were also involved in this
Committee's discussions. The Committee met three times
in 2019. The recommendations and minutes of all
Nomination Committee meetings were shared with the
entire Supervisory Board. This feedback included advice
and recommendations regarding topics to be approved by
the full Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board also has
access to all the meeting materials posted for the
Nomination Committee meetings.
In 2019, nomination discussions focused on succession
planning for both the Managing Board and the Supervisory
Board. With respect to the Managing Board, the discussions
focused on the talent pipeline available for the succession
of Managing Board members, especially in view of the CEO
succession. Given the importance of the decision on CEO
succession, these discussions were mainly conducted in
the full Supervisory Board. Some preparatory discussions
took place in the Nomination Committee, including seeking
the advice and input of an international search firm. The
Nomination Committee discussions eventually led to the
recommendation to the Board that the company had the
best succession candidates in-house. As of that moment,
discussions about the CEO succession were held in the full
Supervisory Board.
As in other years, the Supervisory Board established that
the composition of the Managing Board is and will stay
diverse in nationality, gender, background, expertise and
experience, and that it provides a good foundation to
support all clusters and business groups in achieving their
targets and thus contributing to the company strategy. For
detailed background information on all Managing Board
members, see the company website under 'Corporate
Governance' and in the 'Managing Board' section on page
143 of this Report.
Taking into account the Supervisory Board profile as laid
down in the Supervisory Board regulations, the Nomination
Committee continued discussions on the overall
composition of the Supervisory Board and discussed
succession planning for the Supervisory Board. In order to
maintain a strong profile in international business
experience and executive leadership, the Supervisory Board
decided to nominate Thomas Leysen for appointment at
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 127 www.dsm.comthe 2020 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders.
Mr. L
eysen also brings extensive experience in making
businesses more sustainable. To facilitate a smooth transfer
and continuity in view of the CEO change, the Supervisory
Board also decided to propose the reappointment of Rob
Routs for a two-year term. Other proposed reappointments
at the 2020 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders include
Eileen Kennedy (for a two-year term) and Pradeep Pant (for
a four-year term). Victoria Haynes is not available for
reappointment. Both Eileen Kennedy and Pradeep Pant help
maintain the Board's strong profile in the area of nutrition,
from an academic as well as an FMCG perspective.
Furthermore, Pradeep Pant brings many years of experience
in operating in Asian markets.
Board remuneration
The Remuneration Committee had four meetings in 2019.
Pauline v
an der Meer Mohr (Chair), Victoria Haynes, Rob
Routs and John Ramsay are members of this committee.
Recommendations and minutes of the Remuneration
Committee meetings were shared with the full Supervisory
Board and were used to determine the final remuneration
of the members of the Managing Board. The Supervisory
Board also has access to all the meeting materials provided
for the Remuneration Committee meetings. For more
information on the remuneration policy, see the company
website. For the implementation of that policy in 2019, see
the 'Remuneration report 2019' on page 130.
Discussions focused on the performance and the related
remuneration of the members of the Managing Board, in
respect of both company and individual performance. In
2019, time was spent on remuneration topics related to
the CEO succession, on the implications of the European
Shareholder Directive and on equal pay. For the latter, see
'People — Equal pay / Gender pay gap' on page 43. The
performance and remuneration of the Executive Committee
members were also shared with the Remuneration
Committee. Feike Sijbesma and Judith Wiese were also
partly involved in these discussions.
Sustainability
The Sustainability Committee prepares the Supervisory
Boar
d's discussions on sustainability topics. The
Sustainability Committee met three times in 2019. This
Committee comprises Eileen Kennedy (Chair), Pradeep Pant,
Frits van Paasschen and Erica Mann. The Chair of the
Supervisory Board has a standing invitation and
participated in all meetings. The recommendations and
minutes of these meetings were shared and discussed with
the entire Supervisory Board during its meetings with the
Managing Board. The Supervisory Board also has access to
all the meeting materials provided for the Sustainability
Committee meetings. The feedback from the Committee to
the full Board included advice and recommendations
regarding topics to be approved by the Supervisory Board,in particular the sustainability reporting in this Report.
Taking int
o consideration the Assurance report of the
independent auditor on the sustainability information by
KPMG on page 242 of this Report, the full Supervisory Board
approved the reporting in these sections on 27 February
2020. The Sustainability Information complies with the
Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative and our internal
reporting criteria, which are included in this Report, and is
also aligned with the international Integrated Reporting
Council <IR> Framework where possible.
During the year, recurring topics were the company's
performance against its People and Planet aspirations, with
a focus on safety, Brighter Living Solutions (including design
and testing of new metrics to measure our Sustainability
Portfolio), the company's Materiality matrix, and 'Inclusion
& Diversity'. Through these discussions, the Sustainability
Committee followed up on the progress made with the
implementation of the sustainability and safety aspirations
set as part of Strategy 2021. Deep dives were made into
several topics. One was healthy diets, following among
others the publication of the 2019 EAT-Lancet report. The
Committee also discussed the update of DSM's Responsible
Care plan, more details of which can be found in 'Planet' on
page 51. In terms of Inclusion & Diversity, the Committee
discussed gender diversity and diversity through
internationalizing roles and bringing in employees with
international experience. It also discussed equal pay, see
also 'People' on page 43.
Financials and auditing
The activities of the Supervisory Board in the area of
financials
 and auditing are prepared by the Audit
Committee. The Audit Committee met six times in 2019, three
of these via conference call. John Ramsay (Chair), Victoria
Haynes, Pradeep Pant, Frits van Paasschen and Erica Mann
are members of the Audit Committee. The Chair of the
Supervisory Board participated in all meetings and calls. All
Supervisory Board members have a standing invitation to
attend Audit Committee meetings; in 2019, most of them
used this standing invitation for the two conference calls
in which the financial developments and interim results for
the first and third quarter were discussed, as these are not
followed by a full Board meeting. The highlights and the
minutes of all Audit Committee meetings were shared with
the full Supervisory Board. This feedback included advice
and recommendations regarding topics to be approved by
the full Supervisory Board. In 2019, these included the
approval of the 2020 COA Audit plan, the proposed
reappointment of the external auditor (approved by the
2019 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders), and the
proposed investments to further strengthen the
cybersecurity of the company's operational technology. All
Supervisory Board members also have access to all the
meeting materials posted for the Audit Committee
meetings.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 128 www.dsm.comReport by the Supervisory Board
Our external auditor KPMG and the CFO participated in the
Audit C ommitt
ee's meetings and calls. The CEO participated
in the Audit Committee meetings and the call in which the
half-year results were discussed. The managers responsible
for corporate control, internal audit, risk management and
compliance also participated in these two meetings and
this call. The manager responsible for corporate control also
participated in the two calls in which the financial
developments and interim results for the first and third
quarter were discussed. At least once a year, the Audit
Committee meets with the external auditor without the
Managing Board being present. Four such meetings took
place in 2019. 
The Committee had in-depth discussions on the company's
financials; the Finance plan; the Capital Expenditure plan;
dividend proposals; the financial statements and
accounting policy changes. The € 1 billion share buy-back
program was also part of those discussions. The discussions
on internal risk management and control systems included
the internal control framework, compliance with
recommendations and observations made by internal and
external auditors, and the role and functioning of COA,
including the endorsement of its proposed audit plan for
2020, which was subsequently approved by the full Board,
as well as the COA Vision 2021 document. As part of the
Corporate Risk Assessment, the company's main risks and
their mitigation were discussed. The Committee also
discussed and evaluated cases submitted under the
company whistleblower policy (DSM Alert), fraud cases, and
on-going litigation. All these discussions included
mitigating actions to prevent recurrence. Another recurring
topic is our cybersecurity resilience, about which the Audit
Committee is informed through a dashboard. A specific
topic for the company's cybersecurity resilience has been
the investments needed to keep the operational
technology's cybersecurity fully up to standard.
Discussions were held with KPMG about the audit plan,
management letter, audit report and financial statements
for 2019, including management's judgments and key
accounting estimates. In its management letter KPMG
shared the outcome of its evaluation of the company's
procedures and system of internal controls to the extent
necessary within the scope of the audit of the financial
statements. The observations of KPMG were presented
along the pillars that support our in-control statement (for
the 'Statements of the Managing Board' on page 121, and for
a visualization of our control environment see 'Corporate
governance — Introduction' on page 106). The management
letter contained constructive recommendations for further
strengthening of our internal controls. The most important
element was KPMG's encouragement to continue the
development of the pillar 'Internal Control Framework',
including embedding robots, taking it to a higher level of
maturity. With respect to robots, the company has alreadymade good progress in Finance. Another observation by
KPM
G is that there has been progress in the domain of
shared services in India, but that harmonizing processes
remains an area for attention. In addition, we held
discussions with KPMG about the topic of cybersecurity. In
line with our own assessment, no material weaknesses were
reported by KPMG.
Finally, in 2019, the Audit Committee formally evaluated
the external auditor, and discussed the reappointment of
KPMG, as well as the succession of the current lead external
audit partner whose maximum five-year term will end after
the completion of the 2019 audit. The proposal to reappoint
KPMG is based on the Audit Committee's own assessment
of KPMG, among others through discussions with KPMG in
the absence of management, as well as the outcome of an
evaluation among DSM executives. The Audit Committee
conducts a more in-depth evaluation once every three
years; in the two other years, a lighter evaluation is
performed. For 2019, the lighter evaluation was performed.
The auditor evaluations in prior years were positive and
the outcome of the 2019 evaluation was positive as well.
Financial statements 2019
The Report by the Managing Board and the financial
st
atements for 2019 were submitted by the Managing Board
to the Supervisory Board, in accordance with the provisions
of Article 30 of the Articles of Association, and were
subsequently approved by the Supervisory Board on
26 February 2020. The financial statements were audited by
KPMG, who issued an unqualified opinion (see the
'Independent auditor's report' on page 236). The
Supervisory Board established that the external auditor was
independent of DSM.
The Supervisory Board will submit the 2019 financial
statements to the 2020 Annual General Meeting of
Shareholders, and will propose that the shareholders adopt
them and release the Managing Board from all liability in
respect of its managerial activities and release the
Supervisory Board from all liability in respect of its
supervision of the Managing Board. The profit appropriation
as proposed by the Managing Board and approved by the
Supervisory Board is presented in the Profit section of this
Report on page 58.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 129 www.dsm.comRemuneration report 2019
Introduction by the Chair of the Remuneration Committee
In 2019, DSM put forward a revised remuneration policy
Mana ging
 Board and Supervisory Board Koninklijke DSM N.V.
to the Annual General Meeting (AGM). We highly appreciated
the dialogue with a number of our shareholders and
representatives of institutional investors and the virtually
unanimous support of the AGM (over 97% votes in favor).
This first Remuneration report is in line with adjusted
legislation and EU-guidelines based on the EU
Shareholders' Rights Directive, and explains the application
of the respective policies in 2019.
DSM is recognized as a purpose-led company, creating long-
term value for all its stakeholders and society at large across
the three dimensions of People, Planet and Profit. Our
scientific expertise and innovation capabilities help us to
find answers to some of the world's biggest challenges and
to grow our business at the same time. The deployment of
our Strategy 2021: Growth & value – Purpose led,
Performance driven is supported by our remuneration
policy. The design of our short and long-term incentive
plans emphasizes long-term growth opportunities in the
domains of Health, Nutrition and Sustainable Living. Targets
on energy efficiency and greenhouse gas reduction, as well
as a shift in portfolio toward Brighter Living Solutions,
underpin our commitment to sustainability while ensuring
financial performance in line with our key strategic goals
(Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted net operating free cash
flow). Obviously, our remuneration policy is designed to
attract and retain the talent we require to achieve our
Strategy 2021 and sustainable success in the long term.
In 2019, DSM continued to deliver improvements in
customer-centricity, large innovation projects, as well as
cost control and operational excellence, resulting in sound
results and reflected in remuneration as presented in this
report.
This Remuneration report provides a summary of the
remuneration policy Managing Board Koninklijke DSM N.V.
and the Supervisory Board Koninklijke DSM N.V. respectively
as well as an overview of the remuneration of the members
of the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board in the
financial year 2019. The full, legally superseding
remuneration policy as approved by the AGM is published
on our website. This report is prepared in accordance with
the relevant parts of Section 135 Book 2 of the Dutch Civil
Code.
Pauline van der Meer Mohr
Chair Remuneration CommitteeRemuneration Managing Board Koninklijke DSM N.V. 2019
 
Summary remuneration policy Managing Board Koninklijke
DS
M N.V.
The remuneration policy Managing Board Koninklijke DSM
N.V
. (as approved by the 2019 AGM; 97.48% in favor) is
designed to engage qualified leaders driving our purpose,
enabling DSM to engage our people and other stakeholders
and ultimately to achieve results – by putting customers
first and by delivering on our promises. The policy provides
a clear focus to improve company performance and to
enhance purpose-led long-term value creation across
multiple dimensions (profit: economical/financial, planet:
ecological/sustainability and people: including societal)
while acknowledging the societal context and recognizing
the interests of all our stakeholders (especially our
customers, employees, shareholders, as well as society at
large).
The remuneration is linked to company and individual
performance. Based on the short and long-term strategic
objectives as well as our business drivers, results are
measured on the basis of specified targets, balancing short-
and long-term outcomes, serving the interests of all our
stakeholders. In order to be competitive and to ensure
alignment internally, Total Direct Remuneration offered by
DSM approaches the median — from below — of a
predefined peer group. Reward levels are benchmarked to
the Dutch/European (no US companies) labor market peer
group, while plan design of various reward components is
reviewed against (the broader perspective of) best market
practices.
Labor market peer group
European industry peers: Dutch — AEX listed peers:
Clariant Ahold Delhaize
Covestro AkzoNobel
Evonik Industries ASML
Givaudan Heineken
Johnson Matthey KPN
LANXESS Philips
Lonza Randstad
Solvay Wolters Kluwer
The full version of the remuneration policy Managing Board
K
oninklijke DSM N.V., as approved by the 2019 AGM, is
available on the company website. The following table
specifies the elements of the remuneration policy
describing purpose, design and link to our company
strategy as well as their (potential) value.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 130 www.dsm.comReport by the Supervisory Board - Remuneration report 2019
PURPOSE DESIGN AND LINK TO STRATEGY VALUE
Goal
The g o
al of DSM's remuneration policy Managing Board Koninklijke DSM N.V. is to offer an on target total remuneration package
approaching the median — from below — of the labor market peer group.
Total Direct Compensation
Is the b a
sis for benchmark
efforts, i.e., the reference to the
labor market peer group.Includes b ase salary and variable income. Variable income concerns
the perf
ormance-related Short-Term Incentive (STI) and the STI
deferral & matching plan, as well as the Long-Term Incentive plan
(LTI). In addition, Managing Board members are entitled to certain
benefits.Value of each respective it em is
included her
eafter.
Base salary
Basic p
ay for doing the job.Aims to provide a fair and competitive basis for the total pay level
to attr
act and retain qualified leaders. Annual review based on the
market movement for executives based in the Netherlands and peer
companies. In depth benchmark every three years.Base salaries at DSM approach
the median — fr om bel
ow — of
the labor market peer group.
Short-Term Incentive (STI)
Incentiv
e aligning short-term
business objectives and business
drivers toward strategic company
objectives. Driving pay for
performance.The Supervisory Board sets goals and targets for the respective
performanc
e year and determines the extent to which they have
been achieved. By ensuring that strategic objectives are properly
reflected in stretched yet achievable targets, the realization of
strategic business objectives is addressed. Half of the at-target STI
is linked to financial objectives; the other half is tied to sustainability
aspirations and individual goals.On-target performance: 50% of
annua l b
ase salary. Maximum
opportunity capped at 100%.
Threshold: no STI pay-out in case
the target on Adjusted EBITDA is
not achieved for at least 75%.
STI deferral & matching
Ensur
es that longer term
considerations are sufficiently
taken into account in pursuing
short-term objectives.Conversion of STI into shares, with a 1:1 company match delivered
in Perf
ormance Share Units (PSUs). The PSUs vest upon the
realization of predefined goals (same as LTI program), observing a
three-year vesting period. By linking the vesting of the PSUs to the
targets of the LTI program, it is ensured that decisions regarding
short-term results are aligned with long-term value creation.Mandatory c on version: 25% of STI
achieved; voluntary conversion:
0–25%, with incremental steps of
5%. Maximum number of
matching PSUs to vest, equal to
number granted.
Long-Term Incentive (LTI) 
Foc
us on long-term value
creation. Designed to ensure that
decisions made are in the long-
term interest of all stakeholders
and to safeguard that interests
of the Managing Board and the
company stakeholders are
aligned.PSUs are awarded every year, to be converted into shares upon
re
alization of predefined targets, observing a three-year vesting
period. A five-year holding period (starting at grant date) applies.
Performance goals are based on company strategy, driving long-
term value creation. Half of the target LTI is linked to financial goals;
the other half is linked to sustainability aspirations. Performance is
measured over three financial years, starting with the year of grant.The at-target grant equals 100%
of ba
se salary. Maximum vesting
opportunity is 150% of the
number of PSUs granted.1
Shareholding requirement
Aligning r ew
ard to the interests
of stakeholders, and
emphasizing confidence in
performance and strategy. Managing Board members are expected to build up a shareholding
in the c omp
any; the minimum shareholding requirement must be
accrued in four years. Considered are shares privately purchased
and vested shares granted under DSM share-based compensation
plans.The minimum share-holding
requir
ement is 300% of annual
base salary for the CEO and 200%
for other MB-members.
Pension and other benefits
Post
-retirement remuneration
contributing to the
competitiveness of the overall
package. Together with other
benefits, creates alignment with
market practice.Mandatory enr ollment  in basic pension plan as applicable to all DSM
employees in the Netherlands (Collective Defined Contribution). In
addition, a company-paid contribution to allow participation in
the so-called Net Pension Plan under conditions as applicable to
Netherlands-based employees (Individual Defined Contribution).
Other benefits include sick pay (aligned with Netherlands-based
employees) and a company car.Pension scheme aligned with
plans in pl
ace for employees in
the Netherlands. Other benefits
aligned with market practice.
Goal setting 
Goa
l setting is key to driving pay
for performance aligned with
Company strategy and to ensure
that decisions made and results
delivered are aligned with the
interests of DSM's stakeholders.
 Supervisory Board sets goals, their respective weight and targets
(i.e
., metric) for the respective performance year under the STI and
LTI scheme, considering:
- Company strategy
- Focus on long-term value creation
- Historical performance, business outlook, and circumstances
and priorities
- Stakeholder expectations
At target level, there is a 50:50 split between financial goals and
sustainability/individual goals.Goals must be stretching yet
achie v
able.
1 At face value, the at target LTI grant equals 100% of annual base salary. Applying a discounted fair value approach, the grant value represents approximately 50% of annual
ba
se salary.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 131 www.dsm.comTotal remuneration Managing Board 2019
Actua l r
emuneration 2019 is fully aligned with the
remuneration policy which complies with EU requirements
and Dutch legislation. Mr. Sijbesma's term as CEO and
Chairman of the Managing Board / Executive Committee
Koninklijke DSM N.V. and as member of the Managing Board,
i.e., as Managing Director under the Articles of Association
of the Company, expired as of 15 February 2020. In view of
a proper handover to his successors and to finish certain
projects, Mr. Sijbesma remains employed until 1 May 2020,
observing the terms and conditions of the employment
agreement. The terms and conditions of Mr. Sijbesma's
leaving as part of a planned succession process are in line
with DSM policies and practices. Mr. Sijbesma will not
receive any severance payment and/or transitional
compensation. Details reported here for Mr. Sijbesma
concern the full calendar year 2019.
Base salary
Considering the general increase or market movement for
DSM e
xecutives in the Netherlands and adjustments made
by peer-group companies, base salaries have been
adjusted; on average the adjustment amounts to 2.2% (CEO
1.9% and other members of the Managing Board 2.4%).Fixed annual base salary
in € 1 July 2019 1 July 2018
Feike Sijbesma 960,000 942,500
Geraldine Matchett 637,500 622,500
Dimitri de Vreeze 637,500 622,500
As of 15 February 2020, the annual base salary of Geraldine
Matchett
 and Dimitri de Vreeze amounts to € 925,000 in view
of their appointment as Co-CEO as per the same date.
Short-Term Incentive (STI)
This report includes the STI achievement 2019, payable in
March 20
20. Targets were set ahead of the STI cycle, in
accordance with the remuneration policy and budgeted
results for the current year, ensuring that achievement of
threshold, target or maximum payout are challenging. A
scenario analysis was conducted prior to final approval of
the targets by the Supervisory Board.
Definitions g o als set for 2019 STI (total 50% weight)
-Adjusted EBITDA (weighting 12.5%): Sum of the operating profit plus depreciation and amortization, adjusted for material items of
profit/loss following acquisitions/divestments, restructurings and other circumstances deemed necessary
-Adjusted net operating free cash flow (10%): Cash flow from operating activities, corrected for the cash flow of the APM adjustments,
minus the cash flow of Capital expenditures and drawing rights
-Net sales growth (2.5%): Net organic sales growth
 
-Brighter Living Solutions (5%): Products and services that, considering the whole product life cycle, offer an environmental benefit
(ECO+) and/or social benefit (People+) compared to mainstream reference solutions. DSM uses a standard approach to measure the
impact of portfolio changes (for ECO+ the Eco Life Cycle Assessment, using the WBCSD Chemical sector approach whereas People+
qualifications are made using DSM's People LCA method)
-Safety (5%): Based on Frequency Index for recordable injuries
-Employee engagement (5%): Based on the High-Performance Norm in industry
 
-Individual goals (10%): Individual objectives to be achieved by the respective Managing Board member
The company does not disclose the exact actual targets, as
these qualify
 as commercially sensitive information, though
the targets set are fully in line with the published strategic,
financial and sustainability goals of the company. The
overall average achievement of the Managing Board
members for performance year 2019 amounts to 54% (2018:
80%) of annual base salary. The realization of the financial
targets has been assessed by KPMG. In addition, KPMG
assessed the validation process for non-financial targets.
In view of transparency, we categorize our target realization
as follows: zero pay-out, below target,  at target,  above  target
or maximum pay-out. In 2019, the target achievement of
the Adjusted EBITDA performance was below target. Theachievement on Adjusted net operating free cash flow wa s
above target. The target regarding Net sales growth was not
achieved (zero pay-out). The many efforts to improve our
Safety performance resulted in an above-target realization.
Although the overall engagement score over 2019 was
comparable to 2018, the target realization dropped to at
target level, since the target was raised. Performance
regarding portfolio management measured by Brighter
Living Solutions, remained at target.
The combined realization resulted in a 2019 STI pay-out as
included in the overview below.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 132 www.dsm.comReport by the Supervisory Board - Remuneration report 2019
Short-Term Incentive
in € 2019 2018
Feike Sijbesma 541,261 756,641
Geraldine Matchett 326,970 498,672
Dimitri de Vreeze 342,720 483,328
Short-Term Incentive deferral & matching (STI)
In addition to  the mandatory deferral (25% of STI achieved),
the Managing Board members decided to convert an
additional 25% (maximum possible) of the STI achieved in
2019 into shares. This means that all Managing Board
members converted 50% of their STI (100% of the cash after
tax) into this long-term incentive, representing their trust
and focus on the long term. A 1:1 grant of PSUs was
implemented, amounting to 8,898 PSUs in total (2018: 9,864),
the following table provides an overview. For more
information see the section on 'Equity based compensation'
in this Remuneration report.Grant of P SUs under the short-term deferral & matching
scheme
Number of PSUs granted2019 grant
(vesting 20
22)2018 grant
(vesting 20
21)
Feike Sijbesma 3,872 4,264
Geraldine Matchett 2,552 2,800
Dimitri de Vreeze 2,474 2,800
Long-Term Incentive (LTI)
 
2019 and 2020 grant
In 2019
, 18,500 Performance Shares Units (PSUs) (2018:
17,000) were granted to the CEO. The 2019 grant to the other
Managing Board members amounted to 12,500 PSUs (2018:
11,000).
The 2020 grant equals 12,500 PSUs for each Co-CEO,
Geraldine Matchett and Dimitri de Vreeze. Feike Sijbesma is
not eligible for a grant in 2020. Any grant equals the
maximum number of PSUs that may vest.
Goal setting and vesting scheme
Targets were set ahead of the LTI cycle, in accordance with
the remuneration policy, ensuring that achievement of
threshold, target or maximum vesting are challenging. A
scenario analysis was conducted.
Definition go als set for LTI grants
1.Total Shareholder Return — TSR (weighting 25%): Sum of capital gain and dividends paid, representing the total return to shareholders.
The relative ranking (within the peer group) reflects the market perception of overall performance relative to our peers.
2.Return on Capital Employed — ROCE (25%): Operating profit as percentage of weighted average capital employed.
3.Energy Efficiency Improvement — EEI (25%): The reduction of the amount of energy used per unit product (known as energy efficiency)
on a three-year rolling average basis.
4.Greenhouse Gas Emissions — GHGE (25%): As of the 2019 grant: absolute reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in kilotons over
performance. Up to and including the 2018 grant, the target is based on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions per unit of product.
Vesting 2016 grant
The perf ormanc
e period of the PSUs granted in 2016 was completed by year-end 2018: the actual vesting was on 31 March 2019.
This concerns the PSUs granted under the Long-Term Incentive plan as well as the PSUs granted under the STI deferral &
matching plan. Since all targets were achieved at maximum, all PSUs granted also vested (maximum vesting). The following
vesting schemes applied (given its business-sensitive nature, the ROCE-vesting scheme is not disclosed).
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 133 www.dsm.comTSR vesting scheme1EEI vesting scheme GHGE E fficiency improvement vesting scheme2
Rank % of PSUs
grant
ed that
vestDSM EEI%
(ov
er a 3-year
period)% of PSUs
grant
ed that vestDSM GHGE
Efficiency
 improvement
% (over a 3-year period)% of PSUs
grant
ed that vest
1 100 ≥ 4.00 100 ≥ 8.25 100
2 97 3.25 - < 4.00 83 7.75 - < 8.25 83
3 93 2.75 - < 3.25 67 7.25 - < 7.75 67
4 87 2.50 - < 2.75 50 6.75 - < 7.25 50
5 80 2.25 - < 2.50 33 6.25 - < 6.75 33
6 73 2.00 - < 2.25 17 5.75 - < 6.25 17
7 67 < 2.00 0 < 5.75 0
8 50
9 33
10-15 0
1 Peer group 2016 grant includes AkzoNobel, Arkema, BASF, Chr. Hanssen, Clariant, Croda International, DuPont, Evonik, Givaudan, Kerry, LANXESS, Lonza, Novozymes, Solvay.
2As of the 20
19 grant, the target is based on an absolute reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
The table provides an overview of the number of PSUs
grant
ed in 2016 that vested (i.e., converted to unconditional
shares) in 2019.
PSUs granted in 2016 vested in 2019
 
Number of PSUs vested1LTISTI deferral &
matching
scheme
Feike Sijbesma 31,000 5,350
Geraldine Matchett 20,500 3,506
Dimitri de Vreeze 20,500 3,505
1 At vesting, a sell-to-cover applied: out of the vested shares, a number of shares
are sol
d at vesting date to cover taxes due.
Pension and other benefits
Participation in the basic pension plan provided by the
Dutch pension fund (
Stichting Pensioenfonds DSM
Nederland — PDN) to all DSM employees in the Netherlands
is mandatory for the Managing Board. Regarding
pensionable salary not covered by the basic pension plan,
a company-paid pension contribution as determined by
the Supervisory Board applies. This contribution can beused by Managing Board members to participate in the so-
ca
lled Net Pension Plan under conditions as applicable to
all participating DSM employees.
The company provides an accident insurance, a company
car and a fixed representation allowance in line with market
practice.
Total remuneration
Actual remuneration 2019 is fully aligned with the
remuner
ation policy. The latest benchmark conducted,
demonstrated that DSM lags the median of the labor market
peer group, also considering the pay-out scenarios of the
incentive schemes. For the CEO, the total remuneration is
in the lowest quartile of our own — Dutch/European —
benchmark. For the other Managing Board members, it is
in the second quartile but below the median. The difference
would become even bigger if the benchmark comparison
were made with a global peer group (i.e., including US-based
peers).
The table provides an overview of the total remuneration
expense for the Managing Board (the cost reported for DSM,
are not in all cases the compensation paid nor the cash
outflows for DSM).
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 134 www.dsm.comReport by the Supervisory Board - Remuneration report 2019
DSM's remuneration expense for the Managing Board (the costs reported here for DSM, according to IFRS definitions, ar e
not in all cases the compensation paid, nor the cash outflows for DSM)
x € thousand Fixed Variable compensation Fixed Fixed Total Proportion
fixed
 /
variable
compensationBase Salary /
FeesShort-Term
Incentiv
eShare-based
Compens
ation1Pension
expenditur
e2Other items3
2019 2018 2019 2018 20194201842019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018
Feike Sijbesma, CEO 951 931 541 757 1,563 1,415 234 218 59 583,348 3,379 37:63 36:64
Geraldine Matchett, CFO 630 614 327 499 1,030 933 109 107 86 116 2,182 2,269 38:62 37:63
Dimitri de Vreeze, member 630 614 343 483 1,029 922 126 123 47 46 2,175 2,188 37:63 36:64
Total Managing Board 2,211 2,159 1,211 1,739 3,622 3,270 469 448 192 220 7,705 7,836 37:63 36:64
1 Share-based compensation represents the non-cash cost for DSM of Performance Share Units (PSUs) awarded. These costs are recognized over the vesting period and
theref
ore cover several years. The higher number for 2019 compared to 2018 mainly results from the fact that the 2019 calculations include series initially granted at a
higher share price, while the vesting percentage in 2019 was higher compared to 2018. The percentage of vesting will determine the final income. Against the opening price
at vesting date, the 2019 vesting (all Managing Board members together) represents a value of € 8 million, subject to a sell-to-cover.
2 Increase in the pension costs of Mr. Sijbesma based on design of the contribution table: since he turned 60 in 2019, the pension contribution automatically increased.
3 Fringe benefits, like company car and allowances.
4 Share-based compensation 2018 concerns the grants in 2015 (partial), 2016, 2017 and 2018 (partial); share-based compensation 2019 concerns the grants in 2016 (partial),
2017, 2018 and 2019 (partial).
Equity-based compensation
Overview of outstanding equity compensation
The table below pr o vides an overview of outstanding PSUs (granted under the LTI and STI deferral & matching scheme
respectively). The main conditions of the share-based compensation are:
Vehicle Performance Share Units (PSUs), converted to shares at vesting
Grant date Last trading day in March
Vesting period Three years, starting at grant date
Vesting conditions
 - Realization of predefined  performance goals
- In service at vesting date
Performance period Three performance years, starting 1 January of the year of grant
Holding period Five years, starting at grant date
Lock-up period Blocking period chosen by incumbent, may result in tax discount
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 135 www.dsm.comOutstanding Performance Share Units
Year of issue Outstanding at 31
Dec. 20
18In 2019 Outstanding at
31 Dec
. 2019Share price
at dat e of
gr
ant (€)Granted Vested Forfeited /
expir
ed
Feike Sijbesma 2016 36,350 - (36,350) - - 48.79
2017 29,333 - - - 29,333 63.65
2018 21,264 - - - 21,264 80.04
2019 - 22,372 - - 22,372 97.74
Total 86,947 22,372 (36,350) - 72,969
Retained shares originated from PSUs 116,402
Geraldine Matchett 2016 24,006 - (24,006) - - 48.79
2017 19,092 - - - 19,092 63.65
2018 13,800 - - - 13,800 80.04
2019 - 15,052 - - 15,052 97.74
Total 56,898 15,052 (24,006) - 47,944
Retained shares originated from PSUs 33,631
Dimitri de Vreeze 2016 24,005 - (24,005) - - 48.79
2017 19,092 - - - 19,092 63.65
2018 13,800 - - - 13,800 80.04
2019 - 14,974 - - 14,974 97.74
Total 56,897 14,974 (24,005) - 47,866
Retained shares originated from PSUs 27,587
The table below provides an overview of stock options held by members of the Managing Board. Mr. de Vreeze received these
stock options prior t
o his first appointment as a Managing Board member. During 2019, he exercised 18,000 stock options;
the shares were sold for an average share price of € 94.44. 
Outstanding stock options
Year of issue Outstanding
at 31 Dec
.
2018In 2019 Outstanding
at 31 Dec
.
20191Average
share pric
e
at exercise
(€)Exercise
price (€)Expiry date
Exercised Forfeited/
expir
ed
Dimitri de Vreeze 2011 18,000 (18,000) - - 94.44 46.20 2 May 2019
2012 12,000 - - 12,000 40.90 15 May 2020
2013 12,000 - - 12,000 48.91 7 May 2021
Total 42,000 (18,000) - 24,000
Of which vested 42,000 24,000
1 The other members of the Managing Board do not hold any stock options.
For employee information, as required by section 383d Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, reference is made to Note 27, 'Share-
ba
sed compensation' on page 223. As at 31 December 2019, 3,020,830 (2018: 5,616,235) of the total number of treasury shares
outstanding were held for servicing management, personnel share option rights and performance share unit plans.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 136 www.dsm.comReport by the Supervisory Board - Remuneration report 2019
Shareholding obligation
In addition t o the perf
ormance shares held on the basis of vested grants under the DSM Stock Incentive Plan, all members
of the Managing Board have invested in DSM shares, emphasizing their confidence in the company and its strategy. These
shares were bought through private transactions with private funds (including shares purchased through STI deferral). The
table provides an overview of the number of shares held at year-end.
Managing Board holdings of DSM shares
31 December 2019 31 December 2018
Ordinary shares
purcha
sed with
private moneyHoldings from
vest
ed PSUsTotal
holding
sOrdinary shares
purcha
sed with
private moneyHoldings from
vest
ed PSUsTotal
holding
s
Feike Sijbesma 72,345 116,402 188,747 68,473 97,125 165,598
Geraldine Matchett 13,328 33,631 46,959 10,776 17,638 28,414
Dimitri de Vreeze 22,357 27,587 49,944 19,883 14,858 34,741
Total holdings 108,030 177,620 285,650 99,132 129,621 228,753
All Managing Board members significant ly exceed the
shareholding obligation (300% of base salary for the CEO;
200% of base salary for other Managing Board members).
Company performance versus remuneration over time
 
Five-year review of company performance and Managing
Board r
emuneration
The following table provides an overview of the
dev
elopment of the remuneration of the members of the
Managing Board over the past five years, the development
of company performance and the average remuneration of
other employees (excluding the Managing Board members
and discontinued operations). Total remuneration for
Managing Board members are the remuneration expenses
calculated in accordance with IFRS as included in the
annual reports of the relevant years. The table provides an
overview of company performance based on Adjusted
EBITDA, share price (year average) and the reduction of
greenhouse gas emissions.Typically, the share of total remuneration that is at risk
varies f
or different employee segments and geographies,
due to the impact of incentive schemes. Whereas the
percentage of variable pay as a percentage of total
remuneration is highest for the CEO/Managing Board (at
target 150%), it may be limited or nil for other employee
segments or in certain countries (also as a result of CLA
negotiations). Based on performance, the results of the
respective incentive schemes (and therefore the impact on
total remuneration) varies over time. The average
remuneration of all other employees (excluding the
Managing Board) is not only influenced by factors such as
differences in the pay mix (as mentioned above), or changes
in exchange rates, but also factors related to the
composition of the employee polulation such as the impact
of acquisitions and divestments, restructuring, in- and
outflow of personnel.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 137 www.dsm.com5-year Overview remuneration and company performance (unless mentioned otherwise, year-on-year change)
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Average1
Managing Board remuneration
Feike Sijbesma Base salary 0.8% 3.4% 1.1% 2.3% 2.1% 1.9%
Total remuneration 18.9% 14.5% -0.1% 24.8% -0.9% 11.4%
Geraldine Matchett2Base salary 3.5% 1.4% 2.7% 2.6% 2.6%
Total remuneration 27.3% 12.0% 22.3% -3.8% 14.5%
Dimitri de Vreeze3Base salary 3.5% 1.4% 2.7% 2.6% 2.6%
Total remuneration 15.5% 3.9% 25.1% -0.6% 11.0%
Company performance
Adjusted EBITDA underlying business43.6% 17.4% 14.5% 6.0% 9.9% 10.3%
Year-average share price -2.7% 9.1% 24.4% 25.8% 23.1% 15.9%
GHGE E fficiency improvement in the respective year 4.7% 4.2% 4.1% 9.3% 12.7% 7.0%
Development of average employee remuneration
Base salary employees Netherlands 4.2% 4.3% 3.3% 3.4% 3.8%
Average remuneration cost of employees (globally) 6.8% 4.2% 0.9% -1.6% -0.2% 2.0%
1 Average calculated over the years, a change on year-on-year basis is provided.
2Appoint
ed as member of the Managing Board with effect from 1 August 2014, % change calculated as of 2016.
3 Appointed as member of the Managing Board with effect from 1 September 2013, % change calculated as of 2016.
4 Based on DSM figures : five-year summary, see table on page 246.
DSM's performance in terms of (pr ofit)  growth, share price
increase and greenhouse gas emissions reduction has been
very good over the last five years, as shown in the above
table. The Managing Board's total remuneration expenses
(including the achievements on short and long-term
incentive schemes as well as pension expenditures),
developed in line with the improving performance of the
company. The year-on-year change in base salary of the CEO
and Managing Board members remains below the year-on-
year change in the average base salary of the employees
in the Netherlands. Average total remuneration cost of
other employees (globally) concern all employee cost as
included in Note 5 of the Consolidated Financial
Statements. The flattening of the change in the last three
years is to a large extent caused by M&A activities and
restructuring of our operations, while the adjustments of
exchange rates also had an impact. The year-on-year
change of the average base salary in the Netherlands, as
well as average employee cost globally, are influenced by
the fact that the composition of the underlying employee
population changes from year to year as a consequence
of among others retirements, new hires, restructurings, and
M&A activities.
Pay ratio
Under the Dutch  Corporate Governance Code companies are
required to publish a pay ratio. As the Code does not provide
a definition of the pay ratio, the calculation method applied
will vary per company, which will make the pay ratio data
incomparable. The pay ratio per company will also differ
year on year, since the variable pay (as a percentage of
annual base salary) of the CEO/Managing Board is typically
much higher (150% at target) than the variable pay of the
comparable average employee group (limited or no variablepay component), and this variable pay will fluctuate  with
business results. On top of that, different regions of the
world have different pay structures, so acquisitions/
divestments, growth in certain areas and foreign exchange
rates will equally influence the pay ratio. DSM complies with
the Dutch Corporate Governance Code in providing a pay
ratio, as measured per 31 December 2019.
The pay ratio calculated versus the Dutch employee
remuneration average was 25:1 (2018: 26:1) (compared to CEO
remuneration) or 19:1 (2018: 20:1) (compared to average
Managing Board remuneration). This is based on total cost
of € 530 million in the Netherlands (which includes the
remuneration of the Managing Board and has been
deducted in the ratio calculation) and a headcount in the
Netherlands of 3,960 as at 31 December 2019.
The ratio of total remuneration, including annual base
salary, STI, LTI and other benefits such as pension (as
reported in this Remuneration report) versus the average
of total global employee (i.e., including Dutch)
remuneration, is for the CEO 41:1 (2018: 40:1). The pay ratio
of the average Managing Board total remuneration versus
the average of total global employee remuneration is 32:1
(2018: 31:1). The increase is due to the higher number of
shares that now vested (so a lower number of shares that
were forfeited over the period 2016-2018) of the total
number of shares that were granted in 2016, due to the good
performance of the company.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 138 www.dsm.comReport by the Supervisory Board - Remuneration report 2019
However, if the pay ratio is calculated on the basis of the estimated vesting percentage, so without the additional non-cash
vesting of shar
es for the series 2016–2018, the pay ratio compared to the Dutch employee average for the CEO would be 20:1
(2018: 22:1) and for the average of the Managing Board remuneration 15:1 (2018: 17:1). Compared to the total global employee
remuneration, these would be 33:1 (2018: 34:1) for the CEO and 25:1 (2018: 26:1) for the average of the Managing Board.
Underlying data for the pay ratio calculation can be retrieved from the table 'DSM's remuneration expense for the Managing
Board' (including table notes) in the section 'Total remuneration' of this Remuneration report, as well as from the table
'Geographical information' on page 185 in Note 4, and Note 5, 'Net sales and costs' on page 188. Data for the Netherlands are
explicitly mentioned as they are not directly retrievable.
Remuneration Supervisory Board Koninklijke DSM N.V. 2019
 
Summary of the remuneration policy Supervisory Board Koninklijke DSM N.V.
The remuneration policy is designed to engage qualified  leaders with the right balance of personal skills, competences and
experience required to oversee (the execution of) the company's strategy, its performance and long-term value creation,
recognizing the interests of all stakeholders. In line with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, the remuneration is not linked
to company and individual performance. As a reference, the remuneration of the Supervisory Board is benchmarked to market
practice, predominantly against AEX companies, given the company's country of domicile. The total fixed remuneration should
approach the median of the reference market. The full version of the remuneration policy Supervisory Board Koninklijke DSM
N.V. as approved by the 2019 AGM is available on the company website.
The table below summarizes the key elements of the remuneration policy, describing purpose, design and (potential) value.
PURPOSE DESIGN VALUE
Fixed fee
Basic p
ay for doing the jobReward and inc entiviz e Supervisory Board members to
utilize their skills and competences to the maximum
extent possible in executing their tasks. The reward
reflects the nature of responsibilities and time spent.
Aims to provide a fair and competitive pay level to
engage qualified leaders.
Review: in principal every three years, based on in-
depth benchmarking.Approaching the median of the market
ref
erence (predominantly AEX companies).
Position and fee
- Chair € 105,000
- Deputy Chair € 75,000
- Member € 70,000
- Chair Audit Committee € 18,500
- Member Audit Committee € 12,000
- Chair other Committees € 14,000
- Member other Committees € 8,500
Intercontinental travel fee Fixed amount representing time commitment related
to int
ercontinental travel.€ 5,000 for each time it is required to travel
outside the c ontinent of r
esidence.
Expenses Expenses incurred in fulfilling duties ar e r eimbursed.
To be paid upon submission of a statement of
expenses, partially covered by a fixed allowance.Depending on level of expenses. Fixed per
annum: € 1,250
.
Shareholding requirement In line with Dutch Corporate Governance Code no
mandat ory shar
eholding requirement. Supervisory
Board members are encouraged to invest in privately
owned DSM shares.Not applicable.
Benefits and l oans Supervisory Bo ard members are not entitled to
particip
ate in any benefits program offered to
employees. Loans will not be provided.Not applicable.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 139 www.dsm.comTotal remuneration 2019
Committee overview
The Supervisory Board members are assigned to the various committees.
Committee overview Audit Nomination Remuneration Sustainability
Rob Routs (Chair) Chair Member
Pauline van der Meer Mohr (Deputy Chair) Member Chair
Victoria Haynes Member Member
Eileen Kennedy Member Chair
Erica Mann (as of 8 May 2019) Member Member
Frits van Paasschen Member Member
Pradeep Pant Member Member
John Ramsay Chair Member
Total Remuneration
The table provides an overview of total remuneration provided in 2019; as of 8 May 2019, the revised policy as approved by
the 2019 AGM applies.
R
emuneration Supervisory Board Members
in € Fixed Total
remuner
ationProportion fixed/
v
ariable
compensation
Annual fee Committee fee Other costs1
2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018
Rob Routs, Chair 96,667 85,000 20,208 17,000 6,250 5,250 123,125 107,250 100:0 100:0
Pauline van der Meer Mohr, Dep. Chair 68,750 60,000 20,208 17,000 6,250 5,250 95,208 82,250 100:0 100:0
Tom de Swaan, Dep. Chair (until 9 May
2018) -30,000 - 8,800 - 625 - 39,425 - 100:0
Victoria Haynes, Member 65,833 60,000 19,042 17,000 24,250 17,250 109,125 94,250 100:0 100:0
Eileen Kennedy, Member 65,833 60,000 20,209 17,000 24,250 13,250 110,292 90,250 100:0 100:0
Erica Mann, Member (as  of 8 May 2019) 40,833 - 11,958 - 14,730 - 67,521 - 100:0 -
Frits van Paasschen, Member 65,833 60,000 19,042 17,000 29,250 25,250 114,125 102,250 100:0 100:0
Pradeep Pant, Member 65,833 60,000 19,042 17,000 24,250 21,250 109,125 98,250 100:0 100:0
John Ramsay, Member 65,833 60,000 24,917 17,200 6,250 5,250 97,000 82,450 100:0 100:0
Total 535,415 475,000 154,626 128,000 135,480 93,375 825,521 696,375 100:0 100:0
1 Involves International travel fee, expenses allowance and expenses exceeding expenses allowance
In line with the remuneration policy, no variable compensation applies, and Supervisory Board members do not participate
in an y 
pension scheme. No extraordinary items apply. The total spent in 2019 was higher compared to 2018. This is based on
an extension of the Supervisory Board in view of succession planning and the renewal of the remuneration policy that allows
for an adjustment of the annual fixed fees by an average of 20% (note that the last adjustment of fees took place in 2016).
Benefits and loans
Member
s of the Supervisory Board are not eligible for any benefit progr ams offered by the company (or any beneficiary) to
its employees, neither have any loans been provided.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 140 www.dsm.comReport by the Supervisory Board - Remuneration report 2019
Equity based compensation
As confirmed
 in the remuneration policy, Supervisory Board members do not receive any equity-based compensation. They
are, however, encouraged to hold privately owned shares. At year-end 2019, Pauline van der Meer Mohr held 1,529 shares (2018:
1,529); Victoria Haynes held 300 shares (2018: 300) and John Ramsay held 1,057 shares (2018: 1,057). No other member of the
Supervisory Board held shares in the company during 2019.
Remuneration over time
The table provides an overview of the total remuneration of the Supervisory Board members over a five- year period. A
comparison of the development of total remuneration compared to company performance is not provided, as the Supervisory
Board's total remuneration is not linked to company performance (Dutch Corporate Governance Code and remuneration policy
Supervisory Board Koninklijke DSM N.V.).
5-year Remuneration overview Supervisory Board
2015 2016 2017 2018 20195-year
av
erage
Rob Routs - Chair -3.5% 15.5% 10.9% 0.0% 14.8% 7.5%
Pauline van der Meer Mohr - Dep. Chair -5.4% 14.9% 10.2% 0.0% 15.8% 7.1%
Victoria Haynes - Member 3.9% 10.5% 7.6% 0.0% 15.8% 7.6%
Eileen Kennedy - Member 4.2% 26.5% 0.4% -4.2% 22.2% 9.8%
Erica Mann - Member (as of 8 May 2019)
Frits van Paasschen - Member (as of 3 May 2017) 11.6%
Pradeep Pant - Member (as of 29 April 2016) -3.9% 11.1%
John Ramsay - Member (as of 3 May 2017) 17.6%
Closing remarks and shareholder vote
The company did not provide any loans to any member of the Supervisory or Managing Board. The company website contains
an o
verview of the main terms and conditions of employment of both Co-CEOs.
The 2019 AGM approved the remuneration policy Supervisory Board Koninklijke DSM N.V. (98.45% in favor) as well as the
remuneration policy Managing Board Koninklijke DSM N.V. (97.48% in favor). The total remuneration delivered in 2019 is aligned
with the respective remuneration policies: no deviations or derogations applied. As in 2018, no revision or claw-back of any
incentives occurred in 2019.
The remuneration for the financial year 2019, as described in this report, is subject to an advisory vote at the 2020 AGM.
Questions raised in the 2019 AGM regarding remuneration items have been addressed in the respective meeting, reference is
made to the minutes of the meeting, posted on the company website. As a result, there were no specifics raised that needed
to be addressed in this Remuneration report.
Heerlen, 26 February 2020
The Supervisory Board
Rob Routs, Chair
Pauline van der Meer Mohr, Deputy Chair
Victoria Haynes
Eileen Kennedy
Erica Mann
Frits van Paasschen
Pradeep Pant
John Ramsay
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 141 www.dsm.comSupervisory Board and
Mana ging Bo
ard Royal DSM
Supervisory Board
Rob Routs (1946, m), Chair
Fir
st appointed: 2010. End of current term:
2020. Nationality: Dutch. Nomination
Committee (Chair), Remuneration
Committee (member). Last executive
position held: Executive Director
Downstream and member of the Board of
Royal Dutch Shell plc. Supervisory
directorships/other positions: member of
the Board of Directors of AECOM; member
of the Board of Directors of ATCO Group Ltd.;
and member of the Board of Directors of
Maersk Drilling.
Pauline van der Meer Mohr
(1960 , f
), Deputy Chair
First appointed: 2011. End of current term:
2021. Nationality: Dutch. Remuneration
Committee (Chair), Nomination Committee
(member). Last executive position held:
President Executive Board Erasmus
University Rotterdam. Supervisory
directorships/other positions: non-
executive Director HSBC Holdings plc., non-
executive director of the Board of Mylan N.V.;
Chair, Supervisory Board EY Netherlands;
Chair, Board of Trustees Nederlands
Danstheater; Chair of the Dutch Corporate
Governance Code Monitoring Committee.
Victoria Haynes (1947, f)
Fir
st appointed: 2012. End of current term:
2020. Nationality: American. Audit
Committee (member), Remuneration
Committee (member). Last executive
position held: President and CEO of the
Research Triangle Institute International.
Supervisory directorships/other positions:
member of the Board of Directors of PPG.
Eileen Kennedy (1947, f)
Fir
st appointed: 2012. End of current term:
2020. Nationality: American. Sustainability
Committee (Chair), Nomination Committee
(member). Position: Professor Nutrition
Friedman School of Nutrition Science and
Policy at Tufts University in Boston (USA);
Supervisory directorships/other positions:
Member of High Level Panel of Experts on
Food Security and Nutrition of the UN
Committee on World Food Security; Chair of
the Sight and Life Foundation.
Erica Mann (1958, f)
Fir
st appointed: 2019. End of current term:
2023. Nationality: Australian. Sustainability
Committee (member), Audit Committee
(member). Last executive position held:
Member of the Board of Management of
the Bayer Group and Global President of
Bayer's Consumer Health Division.
Supervisory directorships and other
positions: Non-executive member of the
Boards of Perrigo and Kellogg Company.
Frits Dirk van Paasschen (1961, m)
Fir
st appointed: 2017. End of current term:
2021. Nationality: Dutch and American. Audit
Committee (member), Sustainability
Committee (member). Last position held:
CEO Starwood Hotels and Resorts.
Supervisory directorships/other positions:
non-executive board member Williams
Sonoma (USA); Chairman Board of Convene;
Board member of CitizenM Hotels (NL);
Advisor to private equity firm TPG, three tech
companies and CEO practice at Russell
Reynolds; member of the cross country
industry advisory council of RBC (CA); and
CEO and Founder of The Disruptor's Feast
Advisory.
Pradeep Pant (1953, m)
Fir
st appointed: 2016. End of current term:
2020. Nationality: Singaporean. Audit
Committee (member), Sustainability
Committee (member). Last executive
position held: EVP and President APAC and
EMEA of Mondelez International.
Supervisory directorships/other positions:
Honorary Council Member Food Industry
Asia; non-executive Director Max BUPA
Health Insurance Co Ltd. and of MAX Life
Insurance Co Ltd. (India), non-executive
Director Antara Senior Living Ltd. (India);
advisor to Aptar Group Inc (USA) and
President Pant Consulting Pte. Ltd.
John Ramsay (1957, m)
Fir
st appointed: 2017. End of current term:
2021. Nationality: British. Audit Committee
(Chair), Remuneration Committee (member).
Last position held: Chief Financial Officer
(CFO) and interim CEO of Syngenta AG.
Supervisory directorships/other positions:
non-executive director of RHI Magnesita NV,
non-executive director of G4S plc. and non-
executive director of Croda International (as
of 1 January 2020).
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 142 www.dsm.comSupervisory Board and Managing Board Royal DSM
Managing Board
Feike Sijbesma (1959, m), CEO/Chairman
Position: CE
O/Chairman, Managing Board since May 2007; member, Managing Board since July 2000.
Honorary Chairman Royal DSM after the handover of the CEO role to his successors in the first quarter
of 2020.
Nationality: Dutch.
Supervisory directorships/other positions held: Non-executive Director of Unilever; Member
Supervisory Board Dutch Central Bank (DNB); Member Global CEO Council (GCC) Chinese People's
Association for Friendship with Foreign Countries (CPAFFC); Climate Leader for the World Bank Group,
and Chair of the High-Level Leadership Forum on Competitiveness and Carbon Pricing, convened by
the World Bank Group; Member of Board of Trustees of the World Economic Forum since August 2019;
e-mail: feike.sijbesma@dsm.com
Geraldine Matchett (1972, f), Co-CEO
Position: member
, Managing Board since August 2014, CFO since December 2014.
End of current term: 2022.
Nationality: British, French, Swiss.
Supervisory directorships/other positions held: Non-Executive Director of ABB; Board member of
Catalyst Europe; Co-Chair of HRH Prince of Wales' A4S (Accounting 4 Sustainability) CFO Leadership
Network; Board member of FCLTGlobal.
e-mail: geraldine.matchett@dsm.com
Dimitri de Vreeze (1967, m), Co-CEO
Position: member
, Managing Board since September 2013.
End of current term: 2021.
Nationality: Dutch.
Supervisory directorships/other positions held: Chairman Supervisory Board DSM Netherlands;
Board member of CEFIC (European Chemical Industry Council) and chair Sustainability Advisory
Forum; Board member ChemicaInvest; Chairman 'Fonds voor de topsport' (NOC*NSF; Dutch Olympic
Committee Fund for top sport); member Supervisory Board Sanquin; member Advisory Board ECP
(Electronic Commerce Platform Netherlands); Board member Young Captain Foundation.
e-mail: dimitri.vreeze-de@dsm.com
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 143 www.dsm.comWhat still went wrong in 2019
We are always trying to improve, but sometimes things still
go wr
ong. Here we share the most significant incidents of
2019 across all three dimensions of People, Planet and
Profit. This includes health, safety, environment, and
security incidents (including fraud) as well as what we have
learned from our businesses that has not developed as
planned.
Preventing repeat problems requires us to understand each
incident  to the best  of our ability. When an accident occurs,
the first priority is to take care of any injuries and repair any
damage. We investigate every recordable incident using a
fixed root cause analysis method. We also trigger an
improvement cycle, see 'Safety, Health & well-being' on
page 41. This includes investigating root causes and trying
to eliminate them. We put new requirements or operating
procedures in place as needed.
We apply zero tolerance to violations of the 'DSM Code of
Business Conduct' on page 113. We do not disclose any
personal details in cases involving individuals.
In line with our reporting policy, this overview includes not
only incidents but also some serious near-misses. Near-
misses are cases that did not result in injury, illness or
damage but which could have done so. Even when a crisis
is averted, it is our responsibility to learn from it and do
better the next time. We have a process in place to collect
the information about incidents and some serious near-
misses as presented in this overview, using various sources
including our internal Letter of Representation, see
'Monitoring activities' on page 118 and our reporting system
for SHE and Security incidents.
People
Incidents involving falls
At DSM Nutritional Products in Grenzach (Germany), a
contr
actor fell from a scaffold while the scaffolding was
being erected. He suffered multiple fractures to his body. To
prevent similar incidents, very strict scaffolding standards
as well as contractor requirements have been issued
company-wide.
At DSM Nutritional Products in Grenzach (Germany), an
employee slipped on an icy zebra crossing when walking
from the parking lot to the office buildings and sustained
a broken arm.
While on a business trip, an employee of DSM Engineering
Plastics in Geleen (Netherlands) slipped on the icy surface
of the parking lot of his hotel and tore his knee ligaments.
In response to the latter two incidents, a campaign on
preparing for winter was initiated and new safety standards
were set.At DSM Nutritional Products in Dalry (United Kingdom), an
emplo
yee fractured his knee after tripping over incorrectly
stored scaffolding material.
Logistical incidents
At DSM Resins and Functional Materials in Pingtung
(Taiw
an), an employee hit a beam of the building with the
mast of the electrical pallet truck he was operating. The
mast got stuck and could not be freed. The employee tried
lowering the forks of the truck a couple of times, when
suddenly the forks fell onto his left foot. The foot was
broken where it was not protected by the steel of his safety
boot.
Other health and safety incidents
At DSM Nutritional Products in Shanghai (Zhejiang Province,
C
hina), a flash fire occurred during the removal of packing
materials from a distillation column. A contractor sustained
second-degree burns to large parts of his body.
At DSM Nutritional Products in Buk (Poland), a contractor
was hit in the eye by a webbing cable and sustained an eye
injury.
At DSM Nutritional Products in Dalry (United Kingdom), an
employee accidentally opened a valve of a hot water drain,
the open end of which was not properly secured. Hot water
poured over his shoe, scalding his foot.
At DSM Nutritional Products in Jiangshan (Jiangsu Province,
China), the voluntary fire brigade carried out a fire drill.
While handling a fire hose, an employee lost his balance,
fell to the ground and broke his thigh.
During an occupational health check, an employee from
DSM Nutritional Products in Jiangshan (Jiangsu Province,
China) was diagnosed to have sustained limited hearing
loss resulting from a longer-term noise exposure and was
transferred to another working environment.
At DSM Nutritional Products in Mexico, a truck carrying DSM
products was forced to stop on the highway. The two drivers
were threatened with firearms and had to hand over the
truck and cargo. Later on, the truck was retrieved but all
the cargo had disappeared. Fortunately, no personal
injuries were sustained.
During a business trip in South Africa, two employees from
DSM Food Specialties in Delft (Netherlands) were
threatened by three robbers armed with knives and robbed
of their mobile phones. Fortunately, they did not sustain any
physical injury.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 144 www.dsm.comWhat still went wrong in 2019
Planet
In the c ont
ext of Chemelot, DSM Netherlands (Geleen) was
mentioned in the media in relation to several years of
incorrect reporting of nitrous oxide (N2O) emissions.
Although DSM itself did not have the responsibility for
reporting these emissions, looking back, we feel that DSM
could have pointed out to the other parties involved the
obligation to include the N2O emissions in their
environmental reporting to the authorities. DSM regrets this.
At DSM Nutritional Products in Dalry (United Kingdom), a
storage vessel partly imploded shortly after being filled up
with new stock material. Fortunately, there were no personal
injuries, nor was there any loss of containment.
Profit
DSM Nutritional Products in Fort Worth (Texas, USA) is
inv
olved in the recall of canned dog food initiated by a
customer, as a consequence of the allegedly incorrect
composition of a vitamin premix provided to that customer.
The matter is ongoing at the time of publication of this
Report.
At DSM Nutritional Products in Mexico, non-conformities
in product registration resulted in a loss of sales.
At DSM Nutritional Products in Russia, the renewal of
product certification was delayed. The sales of a number
of products from Switzerland to Russia had to be put on
hold and alternative supply had to be set up, leading to a
loss of margin.
At DSM China, a call was received by the customer helpdesk
in connection with a product allegedly manufactured by
DSM. After checking with all business groups, it turned out
that DSM had never produced this type of product. The
product in question appeared to be a counterfeit product
that was being sold online.
After the resignation of an employee of DSM Nutritional
Products (Americas), it appeared that the employee had
misused a company credit card to make personal and other
expenditures prohibited.
An employee from DSM Food Specialties (Europe) made
false business travel expense claims, thus violating the
company's business travel policy.
At DSM Engineering Plastics in Emmen (Netherlands), a
faulty filter allowed granulate to enter the demineralized
water system, causing the machinery to break down and
putting a production line out of operation for several days.At DSM Nutritional Products in the US, operational delays
in meeting production
 demand at a number of premix sites
led to a loss of business.
At DSM Nutritional Products in Sisseln (Switzerland), an
interruption in the nitrogen supply resulted in a loss of
production.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 145 www.dsm.comInformation on the DSM share
Shares and listings
Ordinary shar
es in Koninklijke DSM N.V. are listed on the
Euronext stock exchange in Amsterdam (Netherlands)
(Stock code 00982, ISIN code NL0000009827). Options on
ordinary DSM shares are traded on the European Option
Exchange in Amsterdam (Euronext.liffe). In the US, a
sponsored unlisted American Depositary Receipts (ADR)
program is offered by Deutsche Bank Trust Co. Americas (DR
ISIN US7802491081), with four ADRs representing the value
of one ordinary DSM share.
Besides the ordinary shares, 44.04 million cumulative
preference shares A (cumprefs A) are in issue, which are not
listed on the stock exchange; these have been placed with
institutional investors. The cumprefs A have the same voting
rights as ordinary shares, as their nominal value of € 1.50
per share is equal to the nominal value of the ordinary
shares.
The dividend percentage of the cumprefs A is based upon
the dividend yield of the ordinary shares (dividend as a
percentage of the average share price). This percentage may
be increased or decreased by a markup or discount of no
more than one hundred (100) basis points, to be determined
by the Managing Board in consultation with the Supervisory
Board. The basis of computation of the dividend on the
Preference Shares is € 5.2942.
Transfer of the cumprefs A requires the approval of the
Managing Board, unless the shareholder is obliged by law
to transfer his shares to a previous shareholder.
The average number of ordinary shares outstanding in 2019
was 175,730,949. All shares in issue are fully paid. On
31 December 2019, the company had 172,448,755 ordinary
shares outstanding.
Issue of shares
The issue of shares takes place by a decision of the
Managing Bo
ard. The decision is subject to the approval of
the Supervisory Board. The scope of this power of the
Managing Board shall be determined by a resolution of
the General Meeting of Shareholders and shall relate to at
most all unissued shares of the authorized capital, as
applicable now or at any time in the future. In the Annual
General Meeting of Shareholders of 8 May 2019 this power
was extended up to and including 8 November 2020, on
the understanding that this authorization of the Managing
Board is limited to a number of ordinary shares with a
nominal value amounting to 10% of the issued capital at
the time of issue, and to an additional 10% of the issued
capital at the time of issue if the issue takes place within
the context of a merger or acquisition within the scope of
DSM's strategy as published on the company website. The
issue price will be determined by the Managing Board andshall as much as possible be calculated on the basis of
the trading pric
es of ordinary shares on the Euronext
Amsterdam Stock Exchange.
Distribution of shares
Under the Dutch Financial Markets Supervision Act,
sharehol
dings of 3% or more in any Dutch company must
be disclosed to the Netherlands Authority for the Financial
Markets (AFM). According to the register kept by the AFM,
the following shareholders had disclosed that they have a
direct or indirect (potential) interest between 3% and 10%
in DSM's total share capital on 31 December 2019:
- ASR Nederland N.V.
- BlackRock, Inc.
- Capital Research and Management Company, Capital
Group International Inc. and EuroPacific Growth Fund
- NN Group N.V.
- Rabo Participaties B.V.
Repurchase of own shares
The company may acquire paid-up own shares by virtue of
a decision of the Managing Bo
ard, provided that the par
value of the acquired shares in its capital amounts to no
more than one tenth of the issued capital. Such a decision
is subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board. In the
Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of 8 May 2019, the
Managing Board was authorized to acquire own shares for
a period of 18 months from said date (i.e., up to and
including 8 November 2020), up to a maximum of 10% of
the issued capital, provided that the company will hold no
more shares in stock than at maximum 10% of the issued
capital.
In 2019, DSM announced a share buyback program with an
aggregate market value of € 1 billion starting in the second
quarter of 2019, with the intention to reduce its issued
capital. This program was in addition to the usual
repurchase programs which DSM executes from time to time
to cover commitments under share-based compensation
plans and the stock dividend. In 2019, DSM repurchased
5,362,936 of its own shares for a consideration of
€ 600 million.
In 2019, DSM repurchased 2,600,000 shares for a total
consideration of € 268 million for the purpose of covering
the company's commitments under existing management
and employee share plans and stock dividend. This program
included share-based compensation plans (800,000
shares) and stock dividend as part of the final dividend 2019
(1,800,000 shares).
In total, DSM repurchased 7,962,936 of its own shares for a
combined consideration of € 869 million.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 146 www.dsm.comInformation on the DSM share
Development of the number of ordinary DSM shares
2019 2018
Issued Repurchased Outstanding Outstanding
Balance at 1 January 181,425,000 5,774,425 175,650,575 174,643,475
Changes:
Reissue of shares in connection with share-based payment plans - (3,395,405) 3,395,405 2,090,107
Repurchase of shares - 7,962,936 (7,962,936) (2,700,000)
Dividend in the form of ordinary shares - (1,365,711) 1,365,711 1,616,993
Balance at 31 December 181,425,000 8,976,245 172,448,755 175,650,575
DSM share prices on Euronext Amsterdam (€ per ordinary share):
Highest closing price 117.90 92.98
Lowest closing price 69.54 68.98
At 31 December 116.10 71.44
Market capitalization at 31 December (€ million)121,063 12,961
1 Source: Bloomberg.
Geographical spread of DSM shares outstanding
in % (excl. cumprefs A) 2019 2018
North America 39 38
United Kingdom 17 16
Netherlands 12 14
France 11 11
Germany 4 5
Switzerland 4 4
Asia–Pacific 4 5
Other countries 9 7
7DSM
90AEX Ind
ex
Dow Jones Euro StoXX Chemical Index
801001
10120
70
60
01/19 02/19 03/19 04/19 05/19 06/19 07/19 08/19 09/19 10/19 11/19 12/19DSM share price development versus AEX and 
Dow Jones Eur
o StoXX Chemical Index
(rebased versus DSM share price)
(x €)
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 147 www.dsm.comTrading volume ordinary DSM shares 2019
x million shar es a
s reported by Euronext Amsterdam
JanuaryFebruaryMarchApril May June July
August
SeptemberOctoberNovember December0510152025
Article 10 of Directive 2004/25
With r eg
ard to the information referred to in the Resolution
of article 10 of the EC Directive pertaining to a takeover bid
which is required to be provided according to Dutch law,
the following can be reported:
- Information on major shareholdings can be found above
(Distribution of shares)
- There are no special statutory rights attached to the
shares of the company
- There are no restrictions on the voting rights of the
company's shares. When convening a General Meeting
of Shareholders, the Managing Board is entitled to
determine a registration date in accordance with the
relevant provisions of the Dutch Civil Code
- The applicable provisions regarding the appointment
and dismissal of members of the Managing Board and
the Supervisory Board and amendments to the Articles
of Association can be found in the chapter 'Corporate
governance and risk management' on page 106
- The powers of the Managing Board regarding the issue
and repurchase of shares in the company can be found
in the sections Issue of shares and Repurchase of own
shares above
- Other information can be found in the 'Notes to the
consolidated financial statements' (16 'Equity', 19
'Borrowings', 27 'Share-based compensation')
Dividend on ordinary shares
DSM's dividend policy is to provide a stable and preferably
rising dividend. DSM pr
oposes to increase the dividend by
about 4.3% to € 2.40 per ordinary share for 2019, reflecting
our confidence in expected future earnings and cash
generation.This will be proposed to the Annual General Meeting of
Sharehol
ders to be held on 8 May 2020. An interim dividend
of € 0.77 per ordinary share having been paid in August 2019,
the final dividend would then amount to € 1.63 per ordinary
share.
The dividend will be payable in cash or in the form of
ordinary shares at the option of the shareholder, with a
maximum of 40% of the dividend amount available for stock
dividend. If more than 40% of the total dividend is
requested by the shareholders to be paid out in shares,
those shareholders who have chosen to receive their
dividend in shares will receive their stock dividend on a pro-
rata basis, the remainder being paid out in cash. Dividend
in cash will be paid after deduction of 15% Dutch dividend
withholding tax. The ex-dividend date is 12 May 2020.
Dividend per ordinary DSM share in €
2019 dividend subject t
o approval by Annual General Meeting of Shareholders
1.
351.351.451.45 1.501.501.651.65 1.651.65 1.651.651.751.751.851.852.302.302.402.40
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 20190123
Dividend on Cumulative Preference Shares A
DSM will p ay a dividend of € 0.17 per share for 2019, identical
t
o the dividend on the Cumulative Preference Shares A
(cumprefs A) for 2018. 
The dividend on the cumprefs A is based on the dividend
yield of the ordinary shares, being about 2.31% for 2019.
The Managing Board in consultation with the Supervisory
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 148 www.dsm.comInformation on the DSM share
Board decided to use their discretionary power to increase
this per c
entage of about 95 bps to 3.26%. Where the
proposed dividend for the ordinary shareholders will
increase by about 4.3% versus 2018, the Managing Board felt
it appropriate to keep the dividend on the cumprefs A equal
to 2018.
Bearer shares
On 27 April 2006, all bearer shares ('aandel en aan toonder')
in DSM's issued share capital were converted into registered
shares ('aandelen op naam') (pursuant to an amendment
of the Articles of Association made at the time). In order to
exercise the rights vested in the shares, holders of former
bearer shares were required to hand in their bearer share
certificates ('aandeelbewijzen') to DSM.
Pursuant to an amendment of Section 2:82 of the Dutch Civil
Code (DCC) in 2019, DSM shareholders who still have not
handed in their bearer share certificates will lose any
entitlement to exchange their bearer share certificates for
a replacement share as per 2 January 2026.
In accordance with Section 2:391(2) DCC, DSM hereby gives
notice of the following:
(i) A shareholder may not exercise the rights vested in a
share until after he/she has handed in his/her bearer share
certificates to DSM.(ii) A bearer share certific ate which has not been handed
in to DSM on or before 31 December 2020 shall become void
and the share represented by the bearer share certificate
shall be acquired by DSM for no consideration, irrespective
of whether DSM's Articles of Association allow the
acquisition of its own shares. Section 2:98a (3) DCC does not
apply to this acquisition. DSM shall be registered as the
shareholder thereof in DSM's shareholders register. DSM
shall hold the shares until the end of the period mentioned
in (iii) below.
(iii) A shareholder who hands in a bearer share certificate
to DSM no later than five years after the acquisition
mentioned in (ii) above, therefore no later than 1 January
2026, is entitled to receive from DSM a replacement
registered share provided that this share is registered in
DSM’s shareholders register in the name of a central
securities depository, and DSM will instruct the
shareholder’s bank to credit the share in a securities
account in the name of holder of the bearer share
certificate.
The procedure described above follows from Section 2:82(3)
up to and including (9) DCC, whose provisions apply.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 149 www.dsm.comSustainability statements
Sustainability statements – People
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Total workforce 22,174 20,977 21,054 20,786 20,796
Female:male ratio 28:72 28:72 27:73 27:73 28:72
% by age category1
<26 years25 5 6 6 5
26–35 years 26 25 26 25 26
36–45 years 29 30 28 28 30
46–55 years 25 26 25 27 27
>55 15 14 15 14 12
% under-represented nationalities1
Executives (non-European) 31 31 - - -
Executives (non-Dutch) 62 60 56 53 49
Management (non-European) 44 43 - - -
Other (non-European) 59 59 - - -
% female1
Executives 20 19 17 15 15
Management 29 28 27 26 27
Other 28 28 28 29 29
% executive hires1
Non-European 55 61 - - -
Female 32361 43 13 38
Non-Dutch 86 83 95 88 79
% new hires by region1
Netherlands 11 13 11 5 11
Rest of Europe 24 22 26 23 22
North America 22 25 20 27 16
China 18 16 16 20 18
Rest of Asia –P acific 12 9 11 8 13
Rest of the world 13 15 15 17 22
Total number new hires (excluding acquisitions) 2,372 3,005 2,203 1,730 2,171
Acquisitions 1,161 80 247 46 1810
Outflow of empl o yees 1
Voluntary resignations 1,118 1,098 766 585 1,153
Total outflow (e x cluding divestments) 2,352 2,868 1,943 1,729 2,212
Divestments 0 357 42 57 2,324
Voluntary resignations (% total workforce)15.4 5.3 4.1 2.8 5.5
Total turnover (% total workforce)111.2 13.9 10.2 8.3 10.6
Development training in hours per employee 8.1 64
Net sales per employee (x € 1,000) 421 4295420 386 374
Safety
Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries
(per 100 DS M empl
oyees and contractor employees) 0.28 0.33 0.36 0.33 0.41
1 For the inde x es based on age, nationalities, gender, inflow and outflow, the companies that are not integrated into the HR systems (approximately 6% of the total workforce)
are not taken into account.
2 We do not employ people younger than 15 under DSM contract. We require our suppliers to not use forced labor or child labor according to our Supplier Code of Conduct.
3 The decrease in 2019 is due to the relatively low number of executives onboarded in 2019, with a number of female executives who were recruited in 2019 expected to be
onboarded in 2020
4 In 2018, development training hours per employee were measured using a new standard with stricter definitions. Figures of previous years cannot be recalculated according
to the new definitions, which means there are no relevant figures available for previous years.
5 Excluding the temporary vitamin effect in 2018, see table on page 65.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 150 www.dsm.comSustainability statements
Sustainability statements – Brighter Living Solutions
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Brighter Living Solutions sales as % of net sales
(underl ying busines
s) 63162262 633-
1 For a small percentage of sales (approximately 2%) cl a ssified as BLS, the environmental impact is considered 'best in class' together with other solutions.
2 Excluding the temporary vitamin effect in 2018, see table on page 65.
3 2016 was the first year of reporting; consequently, there are no comparative figures for the previous years.
Sustainability statements − Planet
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Energy and greenhouse gas
Primary energy use (in PJ) 21.2 20.8 23.6 22.6 20.9
Energy efficiency impro vement (year-on-year) 2.3 1.4 0.7 21-
Greenhouse gas emissions scope 1 + 2, market-based
(in CO2 equiv
alents x million tons) 1.17 1.2321.50 1.571-
Electricity purchased from renewable resources (%) 50 41 21 8 -
Total purchased renewable electricity (GWh) 632 446 229 79 -
Emissions to air
Volatile Organic Compounds (x 1,000 tons) 2.7 4.9 6.6 8.9 3.1
Nitrogen oxide (NOx) (x 1,000 t ons) 0.4 0.5 0.7 0.8 0.4
Sulfur dioxide (SO2) (x 1,000 t ons) 0.06 0.09 0.28 0.33 0.04
Discharges to water and landfill
Chemical Oxygen Demand discharges to surface waters
(x 1,000 t
ons) 2.1 2.2 2.5 2.4 2.1
Waste recycled (in %) 88 83 84 831-
(Landfilling) Non-hazar dous waste (x 1,000 tons) 15 18 16 17.5 12.9
Total process-related waste (x 1,000 tons) 222 177 - - -
Water
Water consumption (x million m3) 23 22 23 221-
Water use (x million m3) 111 114 114 104 101
Raw materials
Renewable raw materials (in %) 14.7 14.3 15.4 16.5 16
Biodiversity
Sites in or adjacent to protected areas (in %) 25 66 61 60 58
Fines (in €) 115,100 23,500 128,400 27,900 35,600
Non-monetary sanctions 2 6 4 2 5
Environmental incidents 60 71 101 1093257
Environmental complaints 58 53 35 21 31
1 The baseline emissions for 2016 were recalculated due to the inclusion of nine acquired sites in the reporting scope.
2Including a one-
time effect of large plant shutdowns, estimated at roughly 150 kt. These effects did not occur in 2019.
3 As of 2016, the Loss of Primary Containment on non-hazardous substances is no longer included in this number.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 151 www.dsm.comStakeholder engagement
In the f oll
owing pages, we present some examples of how
we engage with external stakeholders, including the
partners in our value chain. For an overview of all our
stakeholders, see 'Stakeholders' on page 32. For information
on how we engage with our employees, see 'People' on page
40.
Customers
Implementing our Strategy 2021 throughout our businesses
where we enabl
e, innovate and advocate on the three
domains — Nutrition & Health, Climate & Energy and
Resources & Circularity — has allowed us to strengthen our
relationship with our customers and increase our impact on
the total eco-system. Our customers are key stakeholders,
and understanding their role in the total eco-system and
their stakeholders is of utmost importance.
Customer loyalty and satisfaction
Customer loyalty and satisfaction starts with understanding
our c
ustomers, their needs and their journey when
interacting with us. In addition to daily connections with our
customers, we worked in 2019 to understand better how
they relate to us, both via digital channels and offline.
Customer loyalty and satisfaction are measured through
the Net Promoter Score (NPS) methodology and via
Customer Journey mapping. These enable us to track results
of the ongoing customer relationship improvement
activities in all of our business groups. Longer-term
customer loyalty and satisfaction are measured at fixed
time intervals via a uniform system of online customer
satisfaction research, followed by personal interviews with
individual customers to better understand what lies behind
customer feedback.
In 2019, our NPS score was 41 (2018: 40). With this
improvement, we have seen an increase of our overall NPS
score for four consecutive years (2016: 38). Additionally,
several business groups have implemented an automated
survey process to continuously measure customer
satisfaction during specific interactions throughout the
year. This provides instant performance feedback and new
customer insights. Results are taken up in cross-functional
meetings to drive the immediate optimization of processes
and frontline staff interaction. Learnings from these
initiatives are currently being applied to other business
groups and will help us to further improve the overall
customer experience with DSM.
Lead generation and lead management are one of the
crucial roles that our marketing and sales professionals
perform in the company. In addition, we know from our NPS
methodology that customers expect a high ease of doing
business along the full journey of considering, buying,applying and paying for our solutions. Digital technologies
and cap
ability development of our commercial employees
are important investments that enable us to deliver a
modern customer experience. This includes improving the
digital expertise of our people, and amplifying the
importance of being curious, empathic and agile. This also
enables us to bring the voice of the customer to our
functional areas such as innovation, procurement and
finance.
Brand Value
Our brand is an important business asset. We are a
purpose-led, perf
ormance-driven company that aspires to
provide innovative products and solutions that support our
purpose to create brighter lives for all. In 2019, our brand
value continued to grow. Brand Finance attributed this
growth to improved revenue expectations and a slightly
lower risk profile.
DSM Brand Value1
(x € million)
7
29729
650650807807844844901901
2015 2016 2017 2018 201902004006008001,000
1 As measured by the Brand Finance valuation methodology.
Customer Value Propositions
We continuously sharpen our understanding of our
cust
omers' needs and build them into our value
propositions. We emphasize why our solutions enable our
customers to satisfy the needs of the consumers they serve
as well as enable them to succeed in the market, ensuring
we match the evolving customer needs and customer value
drivers. Our value propositions clarify what the benefits are
for our customers and for others in the ecosystems that
might benefit from our solutions. The value propositions
also highlight how these solutions fit our purpose-led,
performance-driven portfolio.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 152 www.dsm.comSustainability statements
Suppliers
DSM Sustainable Procurement Program
Procurement is essential to enabling our sustainable
growth ambitions. Sust
ainable procurement is the process
of making balanced purchasing decisions in such a way that
they benefit not only our business, but society as a whole,
while minimizing our impact on the environment. In a joint
effort with our suppliers, we take responsibility to grow in
an environmentally sustainable, economically viable and
socially desirable way. We engage with approximately 32,000
suppliers across our company.
DSM's Sustainable Procurement Program (SPP) is
instrumental in ensuring that we deliver on our promise to
reduce our environmental footprint and improve the lives
for people today and generations to come through our
activities, products and innovations. Collaboration and
innovation with our suppliers are important for sharing best
practices and finding new sustainable solutions. Our
commitment to sustainability is at the heart of everything
we do.
Our Supplier Procurement Program comprises three
elements: scope 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (from
purchased electricity), scope 3 GHG emissions (throughout
our value chain) and supplier development and evaluation.
For more information on scope 2, see 'Scope 1+ 2 GHG
emissions' on page 52, and on scope 3, see 'Scope 3 GHG
emissions' on page 53. As part of our supplier development
and evaluation program, we focus on assessing, auditing
and further improving our suppliers' sustainability
performance by actively developing and following up on
corrective actions.
Internal skills and capabilities
Internal capability-building focused on supplier
sustainabilit
y continued in 2019. We shifted the focus from
delivering training toward providing hands-on support and
promoting peer learning. Peer learning offers practical
experience and knowledge-sharing about integrating
sustainability into the daily work of sourcing professionals.
In 2019, we developed the Procurement Vision 2021 to align
with Strategy 2021. Five strategic choices were identified in
the Procurement Vision: Customer-Centricity, World-Class
Procurement, Value Creation, Sustainability Leadership and
Innovation. Within the Sustainability Leadership stream, a
new tool to assess Sustainability Maturity was developed.
In 2019, all procurement groups within DSM performed a
baseline assessment of their maturity, giving us insight into
their current status and enabling us to set priorities for
improvement and development in 2020. Three priorities
were set for 2020: sustainable tenders, incorporating
sustainability in category strategies, and key supplier
management. Our Procurement Vision provides aframework against which we deliver our Sustainable
Pr
ocurement Program.
Every year, our procurement community awards teams who
have developed successful sourcing projects, including
those with significant sustainability benefits. The Global
Procurement Award recognizes and celebrates those
committed to excellence in the procurement profession.
Collaboration
We work with external partners to enhance collaboration
with our suppliers in the suppl
y chain such as the
Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), Friends of
the Sea, the Marine Stewardship Council, and Together for
Sustainability (TfS).
We use a limited amount of palm oil when making certain
nutritional products. DSM Nutritional Products is a member
of RSPO to mitigate the potential risks to the environment,
human rights issues and labor practices in the palm oil
supply chain. DSM Food Specialties sources RSPO 'Mass
Balance' certified palm-derived glycerin in Asia. Our
objective is to use 100% RSPO-certified sustainable palm oil
and palm-derivative products using RSPO 'Mass Balance'
supply chain models by 2020. Going forward, we aim to have
all the production sites that use palm oil or palm oil
derivative products RSPO-certified. For more information on
palm oil, see the company website.
Protecting our marine environment is important to us as a
company. We are committed to the responsible and
sustainable use of natural marine resources. We have
'Friends of the Sea' certification for all our fish oil purchases.
This certification helps ensure that the fisheries involved
in providing fish oil for the production of our omega-3
product range are sustainable. Furthermore, we are
currently in the deployment phase to have all our tuna oil
suppliers Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) certified in
2020. We are proud to partner with the MSC, the global gold
standard for certification and eco-labeling of seafood, to
offer MEG-3® tuna DHA oils and powders that are MSC Chain
of Custody (CoC) certified. This certification guarantees
'ocean-to-purchase' traceability throughout the entire
supply chain, providing assurance that our tuna DHA
products can be easily traced to certified fisheries.
Supplier Sustainability Evaluation
Sustainable Procurement Program results
 2019 2018
Spend coverage SCoC 95% 95%
EcoVadis assessments 322 237
Together for Sustainability
audits 15 14
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 153 www.dsm.comOur appr oach to compliance is defined by our Supplier Code
of C
onduct (SCoC). In 2019, 95% of our supplier spend was
covered by the SCoC versus our target level of 95%. Through
assessments and audits, we check that suppliers act in
compliance with our norms and values. When suppliers
cannot meet our expectations we will work with them to
define and execute an improvement plan.
Since 2015, we have been a member of Together for
Sustainability (TfS), a joint initiative of 23 chemical
companies. Founded in 2011, TfS has developed and
implemented a global assessment and audit program to
improve sustainability practices within the chemical
industry's supply chain. Through this initiative, TfS members
can share all assessments and audit reports, which allows
us to screen and address sustainability performance and
risks for a high number of our suppliers.
To ensure a consistent and reliable supplier assessment
approach, TfS selected EcoVadis as its partner and service
provider. The objective of the EcoVadis methodology is to
measure the quality of a company's sustainability system by
checking its policies, actions and results. The assessment
focuses on 21 criteria grouped in four themes: Environment,
Labor & Human Rights, Ethics and Sustainable
Procurement.
In 2019, TfS changed its metrics to increase the impact on
sustainability for all its members. The revised focus is on
enlarging the number of assessed and re-assessed
suppliers, and at the same time driving improvements to
support sustainability development in the value chain. In
previous years, TfS' metrics focused on suppliers invited for
an assessment by the individual member, whereas as of
2019, its metrics focused on the relevant supplier pool for
each member, independent of the fact that our company or
another TfS member initiated the assessment or re-
assessment.
Through TfS, we assessed 322 suppliers in 2019, of which 295
were re-assessments. Of the re-assessed suppliers, 57%
received an improved sustainability score. Moreover, the
average EcoVadis assessment score of our suppliers was 52
in 2019 compared to 50 in 2018. The average of the supplier
performance level indicates that our suppliers are further
engaging in sustainability.
Supplier Projects
As part of our drive to foster better business through our
supplier projects, our pr
ocurement organization engages
in proactive dialogue with suppliers in order to move the
business agenda forward in our focus domains of Nutrition
& Health, Climate & Energy and Resources & Circularity.
As part of our scope 2 program, we remain committed to
further increase the amount of purchased electricity fromrenewable resources for commercial production sites. For
more inf
ormation on our commitment to responsible and
efficient use of energy, see 'Renewable energy' on page 53.
CO2REDUCE is our supplier engagement program covering
scope 3. It focuses on understanding our run on suppliers'
performance in reducing GHG emissions and developing
reduction roadmaps in close cooperation with our
suppliers. For more information on CO2REDUCE, see 'Scope
3 GHG emissions' on page 53.
The Global Logistics and Packaging (GL&P) team continued
its journey on driving sustainability with its suppliers and
set the ambition to reduce 20% CO2 emissions by 2025
(compared to 2016). Via the CO2 Emission Reduction
Initiative, the GL&P team investigated suppliers' footprints
not only in road, marine and air transportation, but also in
various packaging categories. The successful achievement
can be attributed to joint initiatives with suppliers that led
to environmental benefits in the value chain. Projects such
as stimulating shipment consolidation and optimizing and
redesigning packaging products resulted in significant
reductions in CO2 emissions.
The GL&P team has also developed a 'Purpose Led Wooden
Pallet Sourcing Strategy', whereby we influence our
contracted suppliers in Europe to purchase sustainably
harvested wood. At the same time, the GL&P team
established a unique collaboration with the European wood
and pallet industry whereby we commonly drive the
industry toward using only sustainably sourced wood to
make pallets and packaging crates.
Investors
We value the essential role of our capital providers for the
succ
ess and prosperity of the company, allowing us to
pursue a long-term oriented, value-creating strategy. This
should also lead to a continuous increase of the company's
valuation for the benefit of its shareholders and provide a
low risk profile for our debt holders.
We ensure that accurate financial and relevant non-
financial information is communicated to the financial
markets in a transparent and simultaneous way. All
information is made easily accessible to the public via the
company website. Next to the Annual General Meeting of
Shareholders, we also reach out to the financial markets
through events like the Capital Markets Day, participation
in investor conferences, and by organizing roadshows. We
also actively seek engagement with financial advisors who
cover DSM on behalf of their financial market clients, such
as brokers, credit rating agencies, proxy advisors,
shareholder representative organizations, and ESG
(Environment, Social, Governance) rating agencies.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 154 www.dsm.comSustainability statements
We activ ely seek feedback from the financial markets, which
is periodic
ally discussed and assessed by the Managing
Board and the Supervisory Board. We highly value the
insights gained through these engagements.
We engage with our investors and their representatives on
topics such as the SDGs, climate change, governance,
sustainability in supply chain management, natural and
social capital, and responsible taxation.
Our Strategy 2021: Growth & Value - Purpose led,
Performance driven was launched in 2018, where we
presented how we will capture growth opportunities offered
by global megatrends and the UN SDGs, and disclosed our
targets for profit growth and cash generation, as well as our
clear step-up in sustainability aspirations. During 2019, we
continued to update the market on our progress against our
strategic targets as well as the sustainability ambitions and
our progress with the large sustainability-driven innovation
projects. We provided updates through quarterly
conference calls and at various roadshows covering all large
investor cities, as well as in conferences, visits from
investors and by many telephone and video calls.
Purpose and profit go hand in hand at DSM, which has been
demonstrated by a continuing strong performance on both
financial and non-financial metrics. In 2019, DSM actively
advocated purpose-driven entrepreneurship among our
shareholders. We engaged with investors, including pension
funds, to discuss their responsibility in long-term value
creation for their customers, but also for the society and
the environment their participants live in. We actively
participated in various impact investment initiatives
including De Nederlandsche Bank (DNB) working group on
SDG Impact Measurement and the WBCSD Chemical sector
TCFD Preparer Forum on climate-related risks.
We engaged with FCLT (Focusing Capital to the Long Term),
which works to encourage a longer-term focus in business
and investment decision-making and whose mission is to
motivate business leaders to actively combat short-termism
in our financial markets. Our engagement with FCLT
emphasizes the need for including non-financial long-term
metrics (environmental, societal and governance related)
in the investment decisions of investors. In particular, we
emphasize the need to make the metrics uniform,
comparable and auditable.
We further stepped up our engagement with leading ESG
advisors to the financial sector, including Sustainalytics,
MSCI, Vigeo-Eiris and ISS-ESG. For more information, see
'ESG Ratings and Benchmarks' on page 39.
We also saw the number of direct engagements between
investors and DSM on ESG topics including SDG impact,
substantially increase in 2019. Being recognized as a leaderin sustainability and at the same time showing continued
good 
financial progress, we were frequently invited for in-
depth engagement calls and meetings on how to include —
and compare — important non-financial parameters in their
investment processes.
Society
We engage with society at multiple levels – from local
communit
y initiatives to collaborations with universities
and research institutes. We work with NGOs and civil society
to develop solutions for societal issues, and advocate with
governments and society on important issues relating to
the Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris
Agreement. We also engage in philanthropic and
sponsorship activities to the average yearly amount of
approximately € 6 million. Here we share some examples
of our collaborations with society.
In Brazil, we continued our support of a number of
educational initiatives. These included the Agrinho Program
(providing teaching materials and teacher training), CEAP
(Vocational Educational Center, providing disadvantaged
youths with educative and vocational training) and the
Young Professional Project (hosting discussions for
students on education, career development and the labor
market).
In China, we collaborated with universities and institutes on
research projects, such as with Beijing University on
polymer physics, Shanghai Jiao Tong University on
composite processing, the Institute of Chinese Academy of
Science on application formulations for vitamins and
Wuhan University of Science and Technology on additional
application possibilities. We also participated in the 12th
annual Bright Experience Hunger Walk in support of the UN
World Food Programme and the China Foundation for
Poverty Alleviation.
In India, we partnered with CII (Confederation of Indian
Industries) to institute CAP 2.0° , a unique Climate Action
Program to recognize industry best practices and innovation
on climate action, as well as to enable capacity-building for
corporates. CAP 2.0° helps companies seek expert
intervention on climate action, with assistance throughout
the process, and a gap/feedback report at the end of the
cycle. In addition, the program provides certified training for
selected professionals on the assessment methodology.
In Japan, the Oranda-Jima House, donated by the Oranda-
Jima Foundation, celebrated its fifth anniversary in 2019. We
provided in-kind and financial support for the construction
of the House to support children in the region recovering
from the East Japan earthquake and tsunami in 2011. The
President of DSM Japan, who is Representative Director of
the Foundation, made a congratulatory speech at the
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 155 www.dsm.comanniversary celebrations and expressed his hopes for the
continued g
ood use of the House.
In the Netherlands, we celebrated 150 years of
biotechnology in Delft. To mark this occasion, we presented,
together with ARTIS-Micropia, the ARTIS-Micropedia
Experience titled 'Small Life, Major Impact: Microbes
determine our world'. For more information, see 'Enabling
DSM's Bright Science' on page 95. We also joined forces with
three companies and eight knowledge institutes in a
consortium for a project called 'Soft Advanced Materials'. For
more information, see 'Innovation Partnerships' on page 99.
We also extended our co-operation with The Ocean Cleanup
design team, where ropes with Dyneema® are used as
towlines to support the net that catches plastic in the Great
Pacific Garbage Patch.In Switzerland, DSM Nutritional Products participated in
EXPO 19,
 a regional trade show. Our participation supported
engagement with the local Rhine Valley community and
helped showcase our science and expertise. Participants
also had the opportunity to learn more about the role of UV
filters in sun-creams, how to measure anti-oxidants through
a vitality check, and how consumer preferences differ
between countries regarding color and pigmentation in
eggs.
In the US, we continued our support of the Union County
College Foundation Close the Gap initiative that provides
scholarships to African American students. We also
continued to underwrite the costs of two Fellows with the
Global Health Corps.
The Oranda-Jima House in Yamada, Japan.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 156 www.dsm.comSustainability statements
Management approach for material topics
In the 
following tables, we elaborate on the material topics defined in the Materiality matrix, see 'Materiality' on page 33 and
describe how we manage these topics.
Environment
Climate & Energy Management approach Relevant references
This topic addresses our climate impacts in
terms 
of greenhouse gas emissions, as well as
developing and providing sustainable
solutions that help other avoid emissions.Climate & Energy is a focus domain of DSM, and
we mana
ge this topic by improving our own
carbon footprint, enabling our customers
through innovative solutions and advocating
actions toward a low-carbon future. This
supports our efforts to manage the physical
and transitional opportunities and risks
relating to climate change mitigation and
adaptation. We publicly disclose our impact
and strategy via this Report, CDP and others.DSM & the Sustainable
Dev
elopment Goals
 
Strategy 2021
 
Stakeholders —
Collaborative
platforms & networks
 
Planet
 
Review of business
Resources & Circularity Management approach Relevant references
Resources & Circularity refers to the efficient
use of natura
l resources in order to minimize
stress on the environment. A transition to a
circular economy, addressing closed-loop
solutions and renewable materials, is key to
meeting the needs of current and future
generations.Resources & Circularity is a focus domain of
DSM, and we mana
ge this topic by improving
the value extracted from the limited resources
that are available, enabling the transition to a
circular and bio-based economy through our
solutions and advocating a shift away from a
linear to a circular and bio-based economy.DSM & the Sustainable
Dev
elopment Goals
 
Strategy 2021
 
Stakeholders —
Collaborative
platforms & networks
 
Planet
 
Review of business
Water security Management approach Relevant references
Water is es sential to life and all ecosystems. As
w
ater is becoming a scarcer resource, both
the quality and quantity of available water
constitute a global issue that has local
consequences, from water scarcity to floods
and storms.We are committed to the responsible use of
wat
er. Our approach is defined in the new DSM
Responsible Care Plan. We believe that water
risks are local by nature, so we focus on local
water risk assessments and thorough follow-
up on these. We are a signatory to the UN
Global Compact CEO Water Mandate and
disclose our water management and strategy
via CDP.Planet
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 157 www.dsm.comBiodiversity Management approach Relevant references
Biodiversity r ef ers to the variety and variability
of life on earth and is an important condition
for a sustainable planet. Biodiversity supports
relevant ecosystem services that we require,
such as food, water and clean air.Biodiversity is a locally relevant issue that
potentia
lly impacts our operational locations.
The DSM Responsible Care Plan defines how
we monitor and assess the impact of our
operations on these locations. We support
the ambitions of the Convention on Biological
Diversity and we continue to explore the role
the Natural Capital Protocol can play in
supporting our decision making. Our position
paper on Biodiversity can be found on the
company website.Planet
 
Biodiver
sity position
paper
Social
Nutrition & Health Management approach Relevant references
This topic refers to the transition to
sustainabl
e food systems within planetary
boundaries that is needed to secure the future
availability of food. An increasing global
population and the impact of climate change
will put greater strain on our ability to provide
sufficient food that is also nutritionally
complete — addressing issues including
malnutrition, non-communicable diseases
and obesity.Nutrition & Health is a focus domain of DSM,
and we manag
e this topic by improving the
health of our own workforce, enabling healthy
food systems through our Nutrition businesses
targeting health and well-being and our
Biomedical business improving health and
the quality of life for surgical patients. We
advocate for a change in food systems within
planetary boundaries.Strategy 2021
 
Stak
eholders —
Collaborative
platforms & networks
 
Review of business
Occupational health & safety Management approach Relevant references
Occupational health & safety addresses the
comp
any's ability to create and maintain a safe
and healthy workplace environment that is
free of injuries, fatalities, and illness (both
chronic and acute).The occupational health and safety of all our
emplo
yees and contractors is our highest
priority. Our approach to safety is defined in
the DSM Responsible Care Plan and is
spearheaded by our Life Saving Rules. We
apply an occupational health model based on
prevention, primary care and promotion to
support employee health.People
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 158 www.dsm.comSustainability statements
Labor practices & human rights Management approach Relevant references
This topic encompasses decent working
conditions f
or DSM employees, suppliers and
other partners across the value chain. It
addresses, among others, freedom of
association, non-discrimination, the
prohibition of child labor and forced labor, and
fair compensation.DSM has installed a cross-functional human
rights steering c
ommittee and working group
to manage our approach toward human rights
which is defined in our position paper. Our
whistleblower policy (DSM Alert) is available
for employees and external stakeholders to
report potential violations of human rights.People
 
DSM C
ode of Business
Conduct
 
Sustainability
Statements —
Suppliers
 
Human Rights position
paper
 
Whistleblower policy –
DSM Alert
Leadership & development Management approach Relevant references
This topic refers to the continuous
dev
elopment of employees' skills through
training and development programs, and the
company's ability to generate commitment
among employees to the organization and its
goals.Leadership & development fuels the growth
of our emplo
yees and leaders, which in turn
should enable our overall growth as an
organization. The DSM Leadership Model
provides the common vision and language for
leadership at DSM. Our People & Organization
strategy shapes our engagement with our
employees.People
Internationalization & diversity Management approach Relevant references
This t opic revolves around equal opportunities
in the workf
orce, and ensuring that company
culture and hiring and promotion practices
embrace the building of a diverse and inclusive
workforce that reflects the makeup of local
talent pools and our customer base.We focus our activities on increasing the
repr
esentation of women and the nationality
diversity of our executive population and
management pipeline. Through our Women's
Inspired Network activities and training
opportunities, we address gender diversity and
bias.People
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 159 www.dsm.comBusiness & Governance
Business ethics & transparency Management approach Relevant references
This topic addresses the company's approach
to and public discl
osure on ethical and fair
business conduct, corporate governance and
compliance. This includes taxation, privacy,
bioethics, fraud, bribery & corruption and
fiduciary responsibilities.We take our responsibilities as a business
seriously
. Our approach to ethics and
transparency is led by the DSM Code of
Business Conduct and our Supplier Code of
Conduct. DSM's tax position is consistent with
the normal course of our business operations
and reflects the corporate strategy as well as
the geographic spread of our activities. It is
available through our position paper. We
transparently report on our business through
this Report and our public statements.DSM Code of Business
Conduct
 
C
orporate governance
and risk management
 
Taxation position
paper
Geopolitical shifts & (trade) dynamics Management approach Relevant references
This topic refers to geopolitical shifts and
dynamics such as politic
al tensions and
inequalities. It also includes the impact of
trade policies and barriers.Through our partnerships and stakeholder
enga
gement activities, we monitor topics
relevant to our business. We identify risks and
mitigating actions through our risk
management approach, and apply standard
business processes and practices to manage
trade control compliance.Stakeholders —
Coll
aborative
platforms & networks
 
DSM Code of Business
Conduct
Risk management
Innovation Management approach Relevant references
This topic refers to the company's technology
cap
abilities and research & development
investments to develop innovative,
sustainable solutions.Our innovation and research & development
cap
abilities support us in achieving our growth
targets. Through collaborations with our value
chain partners, we bring new thinking and new
solutions into the company. Through our
venturing activities, we invest in emerging
innovative companies around the world.Review of business —
Innov
ation Center
Advocacy, engagement & partnering Management approach Relevant references
When companies engage with stakeholders,
they 
become aware of the relevant issues that
arise from business activities. Multi-
stakeholder collaboration may support the
achievement of the Sustainable Development
Goals, in particular in developing countries
through the development of suitable products
and processes.We engage with our stakeholders to help
define the topics that ar
e material to our
business and our reporting. We collaborate in
platforms and networks that contribute to our
purpose and align with our focus domains of
Nutrition & Health, Climate & Energy and
Resources & Circularity.Stakeholders
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 160 www.dsm.comSustainability statements
Product stewardship Management approach Relevant references
Product stewardship addresses the
incorpor
ation of sustainability factors in
characteristics of products provided by the
company. It covers managing the lifecycle
impacts of products along the value chain,
such as sourcing, packaging, distribution, use-
phase resource efficiency, and other
environmental and social externalities.Our product stewardship statement describes
our appro
ach on this topic. We assess our
products and will have an action plan in place
for substances of very high concern. We take
a risk-based approach to product stewardship
and will use alternatives where feasible, and
always where required. We also see the
opportunities for safer products with fewer or
no hazardous properties in the circular
economy.Planet
 
Pr
oduct stewardship
on the company
website
Digital transformation Management approach Relevant references
Digital transformation refers to the application
of digit
al technologies to all aspects of
business and society.Our Data Analytics Center of Excellence and
Digita
l Acceleration Group will support us in
the acceleration of digital insights and
solutions. Digital solutions also support and
strengthen our customer relationships. We
monitor and mitigate potential risks relating to
digital through Group Risk Management. Our
Information Security Office and Privacy Policy
guide our approach toward the security of
information assets.People
 
Risk manag
ement
 
Sustainability
Statements —
Customers
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 161 www.dsm.comTaskforce for Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
The T a
skforce for Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations are a set of voluntary, climate-related
financial disclosures for use by companies to provide information to their stakeholders. In 2017, we were among the first
companies to commit to implementing, as fully as practicable, these recommendations over the following three years as
outlined in the TCFD's implementation path. The recommendations are structured around four elements — Governance,
Strategy, Risk Management, and Metrics and Targets. This Report includes various disclosures relevant for the TCFD
recommendations. To highlight this, for each TCFD theme reference is made to relevant sections.
Core Element References
Governance
Sustainabilit
y, including climate-related risks & opportunities, is a direct responsibility of the Managing Board.
The Managing Board is supported in this by advice from our external Sustainability Advisory Board and reports
on progress to the Supervisory Board, via its Sustainability Committee.
Our approach toward assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities is steered by our
climate action agenda, containing key actions and deliverables that are owned by members of the Managing
Board and Executive Committee. The DSM Responsible Care Plan and our greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction
program translate the climate action agenda into concrete operational programs managed by Operations &
Responsible Care, Sourcing and business management. All of these are regularly discussed and reviewed
during the MB/EC meetings.Planet
 
Sustainabilit
y Governance
Framework
 
Supervisory Board —
committees
Strategy
DSM
 has recognized climate change as a global megatrend for more than a decade. Climate change will impact
our company directly, and indirectly via shifts in our value chains and end-markets. This poses a risk to our
current business while providing ample opportunities for growth.
Our portfolio and innovations seek to offer solutions to address changes coming from the shift to a low-
carbon society. For example, in our nutrition business, we address transition risks through innovations, such
as Project Clean Cow which reduces methane emissions from current animal (ruminant) protein production,
as well as through plant-based proteins like CanolaPRO®.
We are reducing our exposure to transition risks like carbon pricing and changing legislation through actively
reducing GHG emissions from our own operations and in our value chain. Projects to underpin our related
GHG targets for 2030 and 2050 are ongoing. We believe that the implementation of our business strategy and
delivery upon our GHG targets provide some resilience toward transition risks, but more extensive risk
assessments will provide further insight into additional transition risks.
We believe that our exposure to short-term physical risks in our direct operations is limited, however we are
still assessing the medium- and long-term impact on our operational footprint and total value chain.Strategy 2021
 
Purpose
 
P
lanet
 
Review of business
 
Innovation
Risk Management
The mana g
ement of climate-related risks is fully integrated into our regular risk management cycles. Climate-
related risk is identified in the Corporate Risk Assessment in ‘Emerging risk 1’ (end-markets) and ‘Emerging
risk 2’ (supply chain and own operations), with mitigating actions defined where appropriate.
As with all risks, the responsibility for identifying and managing climate risks is with the management of
the units, supported by Group Risk Management and assessed by Corporate Operational Audit.
To support management, we have started a project to develop heatmaps for physical climate risks. These will
provide more detailed insights into physical (acute and chronic) risks linked to climate change based on two
different climate scenarios.Planet
 
Risk mana g
ement
Targets and Metrics
We
 report our climate-related metrics and targets via this Report and the company website. Our Science Based
Targets are our key environmental targets within the DSM Responsible Care Plan, supported by supplementary
targets and programs. Furthermore, we also report on avoided emissions, water, waste and other emissions.
We apply a carbon price of € 50/t CO2eq in our large investment decisions and in the Profit & Loss statements
of the business groups for internal management reporting. Building on this, we now require all business
growth projects to be carbon neutral, or else compensated for in the same business.
Climate-related metrics form part of the Long-Term Incentives of the Managing Board and executives.Strategy 2021
 
Pl
anet
 
Managing Board
Remuneration report
 
Note 27 to the Financial
statements
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 162 www.dsm.comConsolidated financia l
st
atements
Summary of signific ant  accounting
policies
Basis of preparation
DSM's consolidated financial  statements have been
prepared in accordance with International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European
Union and the provisions of section 362-8 of Book 2 of the
Dutch Civil Code. The accounting policies applied by DSM
comply with IFRS and the pronouncements of the
International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee
(IFRIC) effective at 31 December 2019.
Impact of new accounting standards adopted in 2019
The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and
IFRIC hav
e issued IFRS 16, which became effective as of
1 January 2019. DSM's accounting policies were updated to
reflect the changes driven by the implementation of this
standard. For completeness, a summary of the impact on
the accounting policies is provided below as well.
IFRS 16 Leases
With effect from 1 January 2019, DSM has adopted IFRS 16
Le
ases. IFRS 16 replaces IAS 17 Leases and establishes a new
model for lessee accounting that requires a lessee to
recognize lease liabilities and corresponding right-of-use
assets, reflecting the future commitments and rights
created by lease contracts. The introduction of IFRS 16
primarily affects the accounting for leases that were
previously accounted for as operating leases. IFRS 16
replaces the straight-line operating lease expenses with a
depreciation charge for right-of-use assets and interest
expense on lease liabilities. In addition, operating lease
cash flows that were previously presented as operating cash
flows are reported as financing cash flows under IFRS 16.
At the date of adoption, DSM applied IFRS 16 using the
modified retrospective approach under which the right-of-
use asset is measured at an amount equal to the lease
liability, adjusted for any prepayments or accruals.
Accordingly, the comparative information presented for
2018 has not been restated.
Impact on transition
At the transition date, DSM recognized lease liabilities and
corr
esponding right-of-use assets for contracts that werepreviously cla ssified as operating leases and that met the
definition of a lease under IFRS 16. The lease liabilities were
measured at the present value of the remaining lease
payments, discounted using DSM's incremental borrowing
rate at 1 January 2019 applicable to the respective lease
object. The weighted-average rate applied is 3.2%. The lease
liabilities and right-of-use assets related to leases that were
previously classified as finance leases are recognized at
their respective carrying amounts immediately before
transition upon the transition date. The following table
summarizes the impact of the transition to IFRS 16 on the
lease liability:
1 January 2019
Operating Lease commitments under
IAS 17 (3 1 Dec
ember 2018) 240
Operating lease commitments related to
contr
acts that do not meet the definition
of lease under IFRS 16 at 31 December
2018 (4)
Operating lease commitments under
IFRS 16 (3
1 December 2018) 236
Discounted using the incremental
borr owing r
ate (1 January 2019) 215
Finance lease liabilities recognized at
31 Dec
ember 2018 21
Lease liabilities recognized at
1 January 20 19 2
36
Impact for the period
In addition to the balance sheet impact, the nature of
expenses r
elated to leases changed as IFRS 16 replaces
the operating lease expense with a straight-line
depreciation charge for right-of-use assets, and interest
expense on lease liabilities. The following table summarizes
the impact of IFRS 16 on the consolidated income
statement, consolidated cash flow statement, and main
performance measures in 2019.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 163 www.dsm.comImpact of IFRS 16
Reported 2019 IFRS 16 impact Excluding IFRS 16
impact
EBITDA 1,586 52 1,534
Depreciation, amortiz ation  and impairments (see Note 5 'Net sales and costs') 632 49 583
Operating pr ofit 954 3 951
Financial income and expense (see Note 6 'Financial income and expense') (92) (6) (86)
Profit f or the year 764 (3) 767
Net earnings per ordinary share (in €) 4.27 (0.02) 4.29
Adjusted EBITDA 1,684 52 1,632
- Nutrition 1,250 30 1,220
- Materials 509 7 502
- Innovation 22 2 20
- Corporate Activities (97) 13 (110)
Adjusted operating pr ofit 1,075 3 1,072
Capital employed (see Note 2 'Alternative performance measures') 9,311 213 9,098
Average capital employed (see Note 2 'Alternative performance measures') 8,936 209 8,727
ROCE in % 12.0 (0.3) 12.3
Net debt (see Note 25 'Net debt') 1,144 217 927
Cash flow (see C onsolidat ed cash flow statement on page 175)
- Operating cash flow 1,385 52 1,333
- Payment of lease liabilities in financing activities (53) (52) (1)
New IFRIC interpretations are not expected to have a
materia
l effect on the financial statements of DSM.
Consolidation
The consolidated financial  statements comprise the
financial statements of Royal DSM and its subsidiaries
(together 'DSM' or 'group'). As a parent company, DSM is
exposed, or has right to, the variable returns from its
involvement with its subsidiaries and has the ability to
affect the returns through its power over the subsidiary.
The financial data of subsidiaries are fully consolidated.
Non-controlling interests in the group's equity and profit
and loss are stated separately. A joint arrangement is an
entity in which DSM holds an interest and which is jointly
controlled by DSM and one or more other venturers under
a contractual arrangement. A joint arrangement can either
be a joint venture where DSM and the other partner(s) have
rights to the net assets of the arrangement or a joint
operation where DSM and the partner(s) have rights to the
assets, and obligations for the liabilities of the
arrangement. For joint ventures, the investment in the net
assets is recognized and accounted for in accordance with
the equity method. For a joint operation, assets, liabilities,
revenues and expenses are recognized in the financial
statements of DSM in accordance with the contractual
entitlement or obligations of DSM.Subsidiaries are consolidated from the acquisition date
until the date on which DS
M ceases to have control. From
the acquisition date onwards, all intra-group balances and
transactions and unrealized profits or losses from intra-
group transactions are eliminated, with one exception:
unrealized losses are not eliminated if there is evidence
of an impairment of the asset transferred. In such cases, an
impairment of the asset is recognized.
Business combinations
Business combinations are accounted for using the
acquisition 
method. The cost of an acquisition is measured
as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, including
liabilities incurred, measured at acquisition date fair value,
and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the
acquiree. Acquisition costs incurred are expensed. 
As of the acquisition date, identifiable assets acquired,
liabilities assumed and any non-controlling interest in the
acquiree are recognized separately from goodwill.
Identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed are
measured at acquisition date fair value. For each business
combination, DSM elects whether it measures the non-
controlling interest in the acquiree at fair value or at the
proportionate share of the acquiree's identifiable net
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 164 www.dsm.comConsolidated financia l  statements - Summary of significant accounting policies
assets. Any contingent consideration payable is measured
at fair v
alue at the acquisition date.
Segmentation
Segment information is presented in respect of the group's
operating segments, about which sep
arate financial
information is available that is regularly evaluated by the
chief operating decision maker. DSM has determined that
Nutrition, Materials and the Innovation Center represent
reportable segments in addition to Corporate Activities.
The Managing Board decides how to allocate resources and
assesses the performance of the clusters. Cluster
performance is reported and reviewed down to the level
of Adjusted EBITDA. The clusters are organized in
accordance with the type of products produced and the
nature of the markets served. The same accounting policies
that are applied for the consolidated financial statements
of DSM are also applied for the operating segments. Prices
for transactions between segments are determined on an
arm's length basis. Segment results, assets and liabilities
include items directly attributable to a segment as well as
those that can reasonably and consistently be allocated.
Selected information on a country and regional basis is
provided in addition to the information about operating
segments.
Foreign currency translation
The presentation currency of the group is the euro.
Each entit
y of the group records transactions and balance
sheet items in its functional currency. Transactions
denominated in a currency other than the functional
currency are recorded at the spot exchange rates prevailing
at the date of the transactions. Monetary assets and
liabilities denominated in a currency other than the
functional currency of the entity are translated at the
closing rates. Exchange differences resulting from the
settlement of these transactions and from the translation
of monetary items are recognized in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets that are measured on the basis of
historical costs denominated in a currency other than the
functional currency continue to be translated against the
rate at initial recognition and will not result in exchange
differences.
On consolidation, the balance sheets of subsidiaries that
do not have the euro as their functional currency are
translated into euros at the closing rate. The income
statements of these entities are translated into euros at
the average rates for the relevant period. Goodwill paid on
acquisition is recorded in the functional currency of the
acquired entity. Exchange differences arising from the
translation of the net investment in entities with a
functional currency other than the euro are recorded in
Other comprehensive income. The same applies toexchange differences arising from borrowings and other
financial
 instruments insofar as those instruments hedge
the currency risk related to the net investment. On disposal
of an entity with a functional currency other than the euro,
the cumulative exchange differences relating to the
translation of the net investment are recognized in profit or
loss.
Distinction between current and non-current
An asset (liability) is classified as current when it is expected
t
o be realized (settled) within 12 months after the balance
sheet date.
Offsetting
Financial assets and financial  liabilities are offset and the
net amount is presented in the balance sheet when DSM
has a legal right to offset the amounts and intends either
to settle them on a net basis or to realize the asset and
settle the liability simultaneously.
Intangible assets
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition
o
ver DSM's share in the net fair value of the identifiable
assets and liabilities of an acquired subsidiary, joint venture
or associate. Goodwill paid on acquisition of subsidiaries is
included in intangible assets. Goodwill paid on acquisition
of joint ventures or associates is included in the carrying
amount of these entities. Goodwill recognized as an
intangible asset is not amortized but tested for impairment
annually and when there are indications that the carrying
amount may exceed the recoverable amount. A gain or loss
on the disposal of an entity includes the carrying amount
of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are
recognized at fair value on the date of acquisition and
subsequently amortized over their expected useful lives,
which vary from 4 to 20 years.
Separately acquired licenses, patents, drawing rights and
application software are carried at historical cost less
straight-line amortization and less any impairment losses.
The expected useful lives vary from 4 to 15 years. Costs of
software maintenance are expensed when incurred. Capital
expenditure that is directly related to the development of
application software is recognized as an intangible asset
and amortized over its estimated useful life (5 to 8 years).
Research costs are expensed when incurred. Development
expenditure is capitalized if the recognition criteria are met
and if it is demonstrated that it is technically feasible to
complete the asset; that the entity intends to complete
the asset; that the entity is able to sell the asset; that the
asset is capable of generating future economic benefits;
that adequate resources are available to complete the
asset; and that the expenditure attributable to the asset can
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 165 www.dsm.combe reliably measured. Development expenditure is
amortiz ed
 over the asset's useful life. Development projects
under construction are included under 'Development
projects'.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less
depreciation
 calculated on a straight-line basis and less any
impairment losses. Interest during construction is
capitalized when it meets the criteria of a qualifying asset.
Expenditures relating to major scheduled turnarounds are
capitalized and depreciated over the period up to the next
turnaround.
Property, plant and equipment are systematically
depreciated over their estimated useful lives. The estimated
remaining lives of assets are reviewed every year, taking
account of commercial and technological obsolescence as
well as normal wear and tear. The initially assumed
expected useful lives are in principle as follows: for
buildings 10–50 years; for plant and machinery 5–15 years;
for other equipment 4–10 years. Land is not depreciated.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognized
upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are
expected to arise from the continued use or the sale of
the asset. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the
asset is recorded in profit or loss.
Leases
DSM's lease portfolio mainly includes lease contracts for
building
s and vehicles.
DSM recognizes a lease liability and a corresponding right-
of-use asset at the commencement date of a lease. Under
IFRS 16, a lease is a contract — or part of a contract — that
conveys a right to control the use of an identified asset for
a period of time in exchange for consideration. In general,
DSM splits the contractual consideration into a lease and
a non-lease component based on their relative stand-alone
prices. For vehicle leases, however, DSM applies the
practical expedient not to make this split but rather
accounts for the fixed consideration as a single lease
component. In addition, payments related to short-term
leases (leases with a term shorter than 12 months) are
recognized on a straight-line basis in profit or loss.
The right-of-use assets are measured at cost, initially at an
amount equal to the lease liability, adjusted for any
prepayments or accruals. Subsequently, the right-of-use
assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the
expected lease term and adjusted for any impairment
losses or remeasurements of the lease liability. In line with
the initially assumed expected useful life of the
corresponding asset class within Property, plant and
equipment, the minimum expected lease term for buildingleases is in principle 10 years. However, the contractual
terms or 
specific circumstances could require applying the
shorter non-cancellable period in determining the
expected lease term. For vehicle leases, the expected lease
term is set equal to the contractual term (4–5 years).
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value
of the remaining lease payments that are not paid at the
commencement date. If an implicit interest rate can readily
be determined for a lease contract, this rate is used to
discount the future payments. If this rate is not available,
DSM uses the applicable incremental borrowing rate as
the discount rate. In determining the incremental borrowing
rate, DSM applies the practical expedient to use a single
discount rate to portfolios of leases with reasonably similar
characteristics.
Concerning the subsequent measurement, the lease
liability is increased by the interest expense related to the
unwinding of the lease liability over time and decreased by
the lease payments made. The lease liability is remeasured
when DSM reassesses or modifies the contractual terms and
conditions. These remeasurements include the indexation
of lease payments based on a variable index, the
reassessment of the likelihood of available extension or
termination options, changes in the lease term due to
contract renegotiations, or early terminations.
Associates and joint ventures
An associate is an entity over which DSM has significant
influenc
e but no control or joint control, usually evidenced
by a shareholding that entitles DSM to between 20% and
50% of the voting rights. A joint venture is an entity over
which DSM has joint control and is entitled to its share of
the net assets and liabilities. Investments in associates and
joint ventures are accounted for by the equity method,
which involves recognition in the income statement of
DSM's share of the associate's or joint venture's profit or loss
for the year determined in accordance with the accounting
policies of DSM. Any other results at DSM in relation to
associated companies are recognized under Other results
related to associates and joint ventures. DSM's interest in
an associate or joint venture is carried in the balance sheet
at its share in the net assets of the associate or joint venture
together with goodwill paid on acquisition, less any
impairment loss.
When DSM's share in the loss of an associate or joint
venture exceeds the carrying amount of that entity, the
carrying amount is reduced to zero. No further losses are
recognized, unless DSM has responsibility for obligations
relating to the entity.
Financial instruments
Financial instruments are contractually agreed rights and
obligations r
esulting in an inflow or outflow of financial
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 166 www.dsm.comConsolidated financia l  statements - Summary of significant accounting policies
assets or the issue of equity instruments. They are initially
mea
sured at fair value plus any directly attributable
transaction costs. Transaction costs for financial
instruments assigned to the category at fair value through
profit and loss are recognized directly in the income
statement. Subsequent measurement is based on the
classification of financial instruments defined in IFRS 9.
Non-derivative financial  instruments
DSM initially recognizes loans and receivables and debt
securities on the dat
e when they are originated. All other
financial assets and financial liabilities are initially
recognized on the date when DSM becomes a party to the
contractual provisions of the instrument. DSM derecognizes
a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash
flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the rights
to receive the contractual cash flows in a transaction in
which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership
of the financial asset are transferred, or when DSM neither
transfers nor retains substantially all of the risks and
rewards of ownership and does not retain control over the
transferred asset. DSM derecognizes a financial liability
when its contractual obligations are discharged or
cancelled, or expire.
Other financial  assets
Other financial  assets comprise loans to associates and
joint ventures, other participating interests, other
receivables and other deferred items.
DSM's business model objective for loans is to hold-to-
collect contractual cash flows only. Loans and long-term
receivables, for which the contractual cash flows consist
solely of principal and interest, are measured at amortized
cost, using the effective interest method, which generally
corresponds to nominal value, less an adjustment for
expected credit loss. The proceeds from these assets and
the gain or loss upon their disposal are recognized in profit
or loss.
Other receivables, for which the contractual cash flows are
not solely principal and interest, are recognized at fair value,
with changes in fair value recognized in profit or loss.
Other participating interests comprise equity interests in
entities in which DSM has no significant influence; these are
accounted for as assets at fair value through profit or loss,
or else DSM uses the irrevocable election to present the fair
value changes in other comprehensive income (Fair value
reserve) instead of profit or loss. Fair value changes in OCI
will not be recycled through profit and loss upon disposal
of the asset. All dividends received will be presented in
profit or loss.Impairment of non-financia l assets
When there are indications that the carrying amount of a
non-financial asset (an intangible asset or an item of
property, plant and equipment) may exceed the estimated
recoverable amount (the higher of its value in use and fair
value less costs to sell), the possible existence of an
impairment loss is investigated. If an asset does not
generate largely independent cash flows, the recoverable
amount is determined for the cash generating unit (CGU) to
which the asset belongs. In assessing the value in use, the
estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present
value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current
market interest rates and the risks specific to the asset.
When the recoverable amount of a non-financial asset is
less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount is
impaired to its recoverable amount and an impairment
charge is recognized in profit or loss. An impairment loss is
reversed when there has been a change in estimate that is
relevant for the determination of the asset's recoverable
amount since the last impairment loss was recognized.
Impairment losses for goodwill are never reversed.
Expected credit loss
All financial assets measured at amortized cost and fair
v
alue through other comprehensive income include an
expected credit loss as of the date of initial recognition of
the asset. Credit losses are measured as the present value
of the difference between the cash flows due to DSM, and
the cash flows that DSM expects to receive. Expected credit
losses are recognized in the income statement. Loss
allowances for trade receivables are always measured at
lifetime expected credit loss.
Inventories
Inventories are  stated at the lower of cost and net realizable
value. The first in, first out (FIFO) method of valuation is used
unless the nature of the inventories requires the use of a
different cost formula, in which case the weighted average
cost method is used. The cost of intermediates and finished
goods includes directly attributable costs and related
production overhead expenses. Net realizable value is
determined as the estimated selling price in the ordinary
course of business, less the estimated costs of completion
and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Products whose manufacturing cost cannot be calculated
because of joint cost components are stated at net
realizable value after deduction of a margin for selling and
distribution efforts.
Current receivables
Current receivables for which the contractual cash flows are
sol
ely principal and interest are initially recognized at fair
value plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at
amortized cost using the effective interest method, which
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 167 www.dsm.comgenerally c orresponds to nominal value, less an adjustment
f
or expected credit loss.
Current investments
Current investments are initially recognized at fair value
plus any
 directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent
to initial recognition, they are measured at amortized cost
using the effective interest method. Deposits with banks
with a maturity between 3 and 12 months are classified as
current investments.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at banks and in
hand and deposits held at c
all with banks with a maturity
of less than three months at inception. Bank overdrafts are
included in current liabilities. Included in cash and cash
equivalents are investments in money market funds that do
not meet the SPPI (Solely Payments of Principal & Interest)
criterion but are held to meet short-term cash demand.
Cash and cash equivalents are measured at fair value
through profit and loss, or amortized cost.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale
Non-current assets and disposal groups (assets and
liabilities rel
ating to an activity that is to be sold) are
classified as 'held for sale' if their carrying amount is to be
recovered principally through a sales transaction rather
than through continuing use. The reclassification takes
place when the assets are available for immediate sale and
the sale is highly probable. These conditions are usually met
as from the date on which a letter of intent or agreement to
sell is ready for signing. Non-current assets held for sale
and disposal groups are measured at the lower of carrying
amount and fair value less costs to sell. Non-current assets
held for sale are not depreciated or amortized. For
transparency, non-current assets and disposal groups that
will contribute to joint ventures are reported separately
from other assets and liabilities held for sale.
Discontinued operations
Discontinued operations comprise those activities that
were
 disposed of during the period or which were classified
as held for sale at the end of the period and represent a
separate major line of business or geographical area that
can be clearly distinguished for operational and financial
reporting purposes.
Royal DSM Shareholders' equity
DSM's ordinary shares and cumulative preference shares
are 
classified as Royal DSM Shareholders' equity. This is
the case for the latter, as there is no mandatory redemption,
and distributions to the shareholders are at the discretion
of DSM. The price paid for repurchased DSM shares (treasury
shares) is deducted from Royal DSM Shareholders' equity
until the shares are cancelled or reissued. Treasury shares
are presented in the treasury share reserve. When treasuryshares are sold or reissued, the amount received is
rec
ognized as an increase in equity. Dividend to be
distributed to holders of cumulative preference shares is
recognized as a liability when the Supervisory Board
approves the proposal for profit distribution. Dividend to be
distributed to holders of ordinary shares is recognized as
a liability when the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders
approves the profit appropriation.
Provisions
Provisions are recognized when all of the following
conditions ar
e met: (1) there is a present legal or
constructive obligation as a result of past events, (2) it is
probable that a transfer of economic benefits will settle
the obligation, and (3) a reliable estimate can be made of
the amount of the obligation.
The probable amount required to settle long-term
obligations is discounted if the effect of discounting is
material. Where discounting is used, the increase in the
provision due to the passage of time is recognized as
interest costs.
Borrowings
Borrowings are not held for trading and are initially
rec
ognized at fair value of the proceeds received, net of
transaction costs. Subsequently, borrowings are stated at
amortized cost using the effective interest method.
Measurement at amortized cost includes any discount or
premium on the borrowing. Interest expenses are recorded
in profit or loss.
Where the interest rate risk relating to a long-term
borrowing is hedged through a fair value hedge, and the
hedge is effective, the carrying amount of the long-term
loan is adjusted for changes in fair value of the interest
component of the hedged loan.
Other current liabilities
Other current liabilities are measured at amortized cost,
which gener
ally corresponds to the nominal value.
Revenue for contracts with customers
Revenues from contracts with customers are recognized by
identifying the 
contract and its performance obligations as
well as determination and allocation of the transaction
price to these performance obligations. At DSM, revenue
related to the sale of goods is recognized in the income
statement when the performance obligation is satisfied.
This is at the point in time when transfer of control of the
goods passes to the buyer. Revenue is measured at the fair
value of the transaction price received.
Income coming from the rendering of services is recognized
when the service, i.e., the performance obligation, has been
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 168 www.dsm.comConsolidated financia l  statements - Summary of significant accounting policies
performed. The revenue is measured at the fair value of
the tr ans
action price received.
Net sales represent the invoice value less estimated
rebates, cash discounts, and indirect taxes.
Income related to the sale or licensing of technologies or
technological expertise is recognized in the income
statement either at a point in time or over time, depending
on when the contractually identified performance
obligations are satisfied. Performance obligations related to
license income include the transfer of rights and
obligations associated with those technologies.
License income is reported in Net sales when the income is
part of the ordinary and recurring activities of the business
and, if not, in Other operating income.
Interest income is recognized on a time-proportionate basis
using the effective interest method.
Dividend income is recognized when the right to receive
payment is established.
Government grants
Government grants  are recognized at their fair value if there
is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and
all related conditions will be complied with. Cost grants are
recognized as income over the periods necessary to match
the grant on a systematic basis to the cost that it is intended
to compensate. If the grant is an investment grant, its fair
value is initially recognized as deferred income in Other
non-current liabilities and then released to profit or loss
over the expected useful life of the relevant asset.
Share-based compensation
The costs of option plans are measured by reference to
the fair v
alue of the options on the date on which the
options are granted. The fair value is determined using
the Black-Scholes model, taking into account market
conditions linked to the price of the DSM share. The costs
of these options are recognized in profit or loss (Employee
benefit costs) during the vesting period, together with a
corresponding increase in Equity in the case of
equity-settled options or Other non-current liabilities in
the case of cash-settled options (Share Appreciation
Rights). No expense is recognized for options that do not
ultimately vest, except for options where vesting is
conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as
vesting, irrespective of whether or not the market condition
is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions
are met.
Performance shares and restricted share units are granted
free of charge and vest after three years on the achievement
of previously determined targets. The cost of performanceshares and restricted share units is measured by reference
to the f
air value of the DSM shares on the date on which
the performance shares and restricted share units were
granted and is recognized in profit or loss (Employee benefit
costs) during the vesting period, together with a
corresponding increase in equity.
Emission rights
DSM is subject to legislation encouraging reductions in
greenhouse
 gas emissions and has been awarded emission
rights (principally CO2 emission rights) in a number of
jurisdictions. Emission rights are reserved for meeting
delivery obligations and are recognized at cost (usually
zero). Revenue is recognized when surplus emission rights
are sold to third parties. When actual emissions exceed
the emission rights available to DSM, a liability  is recognized
for the expected additional costs.
Alternative performance measures (APMs)
DSM uses Alternativ e performance measures to present and
discuss DSM's financial results. To arrive at these APMs,
adjustments are made to material items of income and
expense arising from circumstances such as Acquisitions/
divestments, Restructuring, Impairments and Other.
'Other' APM adjustments include site closure costs,
environmental cleaning, litigation settlements or other
non-operational (contractual) arrangements. Other than
items related to acquisition and integration costs incurred
in the first year from the acquisition date (including non-
recurring inventory value adjustments) as well as
adjustments due to previously recognized APM adjusting
events, the threshold is € 10 million.
Income tax
Income tax expense is recognized in the income statement
ex
cept to the extent that it relates to an item recognized
directly in Other comprehensive income or Shareholders'
equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on
the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted at
the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable
with respect to previous years, and reflects uncertainty
related to income taxes, if any. Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are recognized for the expected tax consequences
of temporary differences between the carrying amount of
assets and liabilities and their tax base. Deferred tax assets
and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that have been
enacted or substantially enacted at the balance  sheet  date,
and reflect uncertainty related to income taxes, if any. They
are expected to apply when the related deferred tax assets
are realized or the deferred tax liabilities are settled.
Deferred tax assets, including assets arising from losses
carried forward and tax credits, are recognized to the extent
that it is probable that future taxable profits will be
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 169 www.dsm.comavailable against which the deductible temporary
differ
ences and unused tax losses can be utilized. Deferred
tax assets and liabilities are stated at nominal value.
Deferred taxes are not provided for the following temporary
differences: the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial
recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither
accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to
investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will
probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax
assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset and presented
net when there is a legally enforceable right to offset, and
the assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by
the same taxation authority.
Derivatives
Derivatives are initially measured at fair value. Subsequent
to
 initial recognition, derivatives are measured at fair value,
and changes therein are generally recognized in profit or
loss, unless hedge accounting is applied.
Financial derivatives and hedging
Financial derivativ es are recognized on the day of trading at
fair value, with changes recognized in profit or loss. The
group uses financial derivatives such as foreign currency
forward contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge risks
associated with foreign currency and interest rate
fluctuations. Financial derivatives are initially recognized
in the balance sheet at fair value. Subsequently, financial
derivatives, bank balances and deposits in foreign currency
are valued using the rates applicable on the balance sheet
closing date. Changes in fair value are recognized in profit
or loss unless cash flow hedge accounting or net investment
hedge accounting is applied. For the measurement basis,
see 'Fair value of financial instruments'.
Changes in the fair value of financial derivatives designated
and qualifying as cash flow hedges are recognized in Other
comprehensive income (Hedging reserve) to the extent that
the hedge is effective. Upon recognition of the related asset
or liability, the cumulative gain or loss is transferred from
the hedging reserve and included in the carrying amount
of the hedged item if it is a non-financial asset or liability.
Any ineffective portion of the changes of the fair value of
the derivative is recognized immediately in profit and loss.
If the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur,
the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge
accounting, the hedging instrument expires or is sold,
terminated or exercised, or the designation is revoked, then
hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively. If the
forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, then
the amount accumulated in equity is reclassified to profit
or loss. If the hedged item is a financial asset or liability,
the gain or loss is transferred to profit or loss. Changes in
the fair value of financial derivatives designated and
qualifying as net investment hedges are recognized in Othercomprehensive income (Translation reserve) to the extent
that the hedge is eff
ective and the change in fair value is
caused by changes in currency exchange rates. Accumulated
gains and losses are released from Other comprehensive
income and are included in profit or loss when the net
investment is disposed of. Changes in the fair value of
financial derivatives designated and qualifying as fair value
hedges are immediately recognized in the income
statement, together with any changes in the fair value of
the hedged assets or liabilities attributable to the hedged
risk.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits
DSM has both defined contribution pl ans and defined
benefit plans. In the case of defined contribution plans,
obligations are limited to the payment of contributions,
which are recognized as Employee benefit costs. In the case
of defined benefit plans, the aggregate of the value of the
defined benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets
for each plan is recognized as a net defined benefit liability
or asset. Defined benefit obligations are determined using
the projected unit credit method. Plan assets are recognized
at fair value. If the fair value of plan assets exceeds the
present value of the defined benefit obligation, a net asset
is only recognized to the extent that the asset is available
for refunds to the employer or for reductions in future
contributions to the plan. Defined benefit pension costs
consist of three elements: service costs, net interest, and
remeasurements. Service costs are part of Employee benefit
costs and consist of current service costs. Past service costs
and results of plan settlements are included in Other
operating income or expense. Net interest is part of
Financial income and expense and is determined on the
basis of the value of the net defined benefit asset or liability
at the start of the year, and on the interest on high-quality
corporate bonds. Remeasurements are actuarial gains and
losses, the return (or interest cost) on net plan assets (or
liabilities) excluding amounts included in net interest and
changes in the effect of the asset ceiling. These
remeasurements are recognized in Other comprehensive
income as they occur and are not recycled through profit or
loss at a later stage.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 170 www.dsm.comConsolidated financia l  statements - Consolidated financial statements
Consolidated financia l  statements
Consolidated income statement
x € million Notes 2019 2018
Net sales 5 9,010 9,267
Cost of sales 5 (5,957) (5,862)
Gross margin 3,053 3,405
Marketing and sales (1,263) (1,303)
Research and development (349) (348)
General and administrative (525) (530)
Other operating income 146 104
Other operating expense (108) (83)
5 (2,099) (2,160)
Operating pr ofit 954 1,245
Financial income 6 30 18
Financial expense 6 (122) (119)
Profit bef ore income tax expense 862 1,144
Income tax expense 7 (152) (194)
Share of the pr ofit  of associates and joint ventures 10 (9) 11
Other results related to associates and joint ventures 10 63 118
Profit f or the year 764 1,079
Of which:
Profit attribut abl e to non-controlling interests 17 6 2
Net pr ofit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 758 1,077
Dividend on cumulative preference shares (8) (8)
Net pr ofit available to holders of ordinary shares 750 1,069
Earnings per share (EPS) (in €):
- Net basic EPS 2 4.27 6.10
- Net diluted EPS 2 4.24 6.06
See Note 2 'Alternative performance measures' for the reconciliation to Adjusted EBITDA of € 1,684 million (2018: € 1,822 million)
and other adjust
ed IFRS performance measures.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 171 www.dsm.comConsolidated statement of comprehensive income
x € million 2019 2018
Items that will not be r ecl assified to profit or loss
Remeasurements of defined benefit pension pl ans (24) (77)
Fair value changes in Other participating interests (21) 16
Transfer of fair value of other participating interests to retained earnings 4 -
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations relating to the non-controlling
inter
ests 2 (1)
Items that may subsequently be r ecl assified to profit or loss
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations
- Change for the year 134 129
-Reclassification adjustment to the income statement (9) 14
Hedging reserve
- Change for the year (18) (44)
-Reclassification adjustment to the income statement 66 22
Equity accounted investees — share of Other comprehensive income 1 (4)
Other comprehensive income, before tax 135 55
Income tax (expense)/income relating to:
- Remeasurements of defined benefit pl ans 9 11
- Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations - 2
- Hedging reserve (4) 7
Total income tax (expense) / income 5 20
Other comprehensive income, net of tax 140 75
Profit f or the year 764 1,079
Total comprehensive income 904 1,154
Of which:
- Attributable to non-controlling interests 8 1
- Attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 896 1,153
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 172 www.dsm.comConsolidated financia l  statements - Consolidated financial statements
Consolidated balance sheet at 31 December
x € million Notes 2019 2018
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 8 3,515 3,090
Property, plant and equipment 9 4,040 3,511
Deferred tax assets 7 217 248
Share in associates and joint ventures 10 155 205
Financial derivatives 23 27 14
Other financia l  assets 11 265 263
8,219 7,331
Current assets
Inventories 12 2,019 1,993
Trade receivables 13 1,592 1,575
Income tax receivables 13 61 83
Other current receivables 13 45 80
Financial derivatives 23 19 21
Current investments 14 688 1,277
Cash and cash equivalents 15 800 1,281
5,224 6,310
Total 13,443 13,641
Equity and liabilities
Equity 16
Shareholders' equity 7,731 7,782
Non-controlling interests 17 104 33
7,835 7,815
Non-current liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities 7 296 254
Employee benefit liabilities 24 413 413
Provisions 18 120 116
Borrowings 19 2,464 2,272
Financial derivatives 23 7 3
Other non-current liabilities 20 145 197
3,445 3,255
Current liabilities
Employee benefit liabilities 24 43 46
Provisions 18 48 37
Borrowings 19 189 380
Financial derivatives 23 18 51
Trade payables 21 1,345 1,430
Income tax payables 21 42 100
Other current liabilities 21 478 527
2,163 2,571
Total 13,443 13,641
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 173 www.dsm.comConsolidated statement of changes in equity (Note 16)
x € million Share
capit
alShare
premiumTreasury
sharesOther
reserv
esRetained
earning
s
 Total Non-
contr
olling
interestsTotal
equit y
Balance at 1 January 2018 338 489 (398) (199) 6,732 6,962 103 7,065
Dividend - - - - (365) (365) (3) (368)
Options / performance shares granted - - - 25 - 25 - 25
Options / performance shares
ex
ercised / canceled - - - (23) 23 - - -
Reissued shares - - 263 - (21) 242 - 242
Acquisition (divestment) of subsidiary with
NCI - - - - - - (67) (67)
Repurchase of shares - - (236) - - (236) - (236)
Other - - - - 1 1 (1) -
Total comprehensive income - - - 142 1,011 1,153 1 1,154
Balance at 31 December 2018 338 489 (371) (55) 7,381 7,782 33 7,815
Dividend - - - - (414) (414) (4) (418)
Options / performance shares granted - - - 34 - 34 - 34
Options / performance shares
ex
ercised / canceled - - - (36) 36 - - -
Reissued shares - - 335 - (11) 324 - 324
Acquistion of NCI without a chang e  in control - - - - (13) (13) 9 (4)
Acquisition (divestment) of subsidiary with
NCI - - - - - - 57 57
Repurchase of shares - - (869) - - (869) - (869)
Other - - - 1 (10) (9) 1 (8)
Total comprehensive income - - - 152 744 896 8 904
Balance at 31 December 2019 338 489 (905) 96 7,713 7,731 104 7,835
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 174 www.dsm.comConsolidated financia l  statements - Consolidated financial statements
Consolidated cash flow st at ement (Note 26)
x € million 2019 2018
Operating activities
Profit f or the year 764 1,079
Share of the pr ofit  of associates and joint ventures (54) (129)
Income tax 152 194
Profit bef ore income tax expense 862 1,144
Financial income and expense 92 101
Operating pr ofit1954 1,245
Depreciation, amortization and impairments 632 509
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization
(EBITD A)11,586 1,754
Adjustments for:
- (Gain) or loss from disposals (4) (22)
- Acquisition/divestment related in EBITDA 13 16
- Change in provisions 26 (41)
-Defined benefit pl ans (39) (25)
(4) (72)
Income tax received 9 15
Income tax paid (149) (122)
Share-based compensation 34 25
Contract settlements and other non-cash items (70) 29
Other (8) -
Changes, excluding working capital (188) (125)
Operating cash flow bef or e changes in working capital 1,398 1,629
Changes in operating working capital:
- Inventories 114 (166)
- Trade receivables 59 (74)
- Trade payables (121) (6)
52 (246)
Changes in other working capital (65) 8
Changes in working capital (13) (238)
Cash provided by operating activities 1,385 1,391
1 See Note 2 'Alternative performance measures' for the reconciliation to Adjusted EBITDA of € 1,684 million (2018: € 1,822 million) and other adjusted IFRS performance
mea
sures.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 175 www.dsm.comConsolidated cash flow st at ement (Note 26) continued
x € million 2019 2018
Cash provided by operating activities 1,385 1,391
Investing activities
Capital expenditure for:1
- Intangible assets (107) (108)
- Property, plant and equipment (520) (565)
Payments regarding drawing rights (14) (20)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 6 18
Acquisition of subsidiaries and associates (556) (22)
Disposal of subsidiaries, businesses and associates 37 316
Additions to fix ed- term deposits (1,195) (1,544)
Withdrawal from fix ed- term deposits 1,783 1,222
Interest received 10 20
Other financia l  assets:
- Capital payments and acquisitions (53) (77)
- Dividends received 75 2
- Additions to loans granted (17) (4)
- Repayment of loans granted 25 156
- Proceeds from disposals 1 1
Cash from/(used in) investing activities (525) (605)
Financing activities
Settlement derivatives from internal loans (5) 1
Capital payments from/to non-controlling interests 1 -
Loans taken up 7 25
Repayment of loans (302) (12)
Payments of lease liabilities (53) (1)
Change in debt to credit institutions 57 9
Dividend paid (291) (225)
Interest paid (57) (59)
Proceeds from reissued treasury shares 180 97
Repurchase of shares (869) (236)
Cash (used in)/from financing activities (1,332) (401)
Change in cash and cash equivalents (472) 385
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 1,281 899
Exchange differences relating to cash held (9) (3)
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 800 1,281
1 An amount of € 18  million included in capital expenditure was funded by customers (2018: € 9 million) and in 2018 € 18 million via financial lease (in 2019 all lease payments
are recognized as cash used in financing activities).
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 176 www.dsm.comConsolidated financia l  statements - Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
Notes to the consolidated financia l  statements of Royal DSM
1 General information
Unless stated otherwise, all amounts are in € million.
A list of DSM p
articipations has been filed with the Chamber of Commerce (Netherlands) and is available from the company
upon request. The list can also be downloaded from the company website.
The preparation of financial statements requires estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements. The policies that management considers to be the most important for the presentation of the financial condition
and results of operations are discussed in the relevant Notes. The same holds for the issues that require management
judgments or estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Management cautions that future events often vary from
forecasts and that estimates routinely require adjustment. Areas of judgment that have the most significant effect on the
amounts recognized in the financial statements relate to the categorization of certain items as 'APM adjustments' relating to
the alternative performance measures and the identification of cash generating units (CGUs).
Key assumptions and estimates that need to be made by management relate to the useful lives of non-current assets (Notes
8 and 9), the establishment of provisions for restructuring costs, environmental costs (Note 18) and retirement and other post-
employment benefits (Note 24), the recognition and measurement of income taxes (Note 7), the determination of fair values
for financial instruments (Note 23) and for share-based compensation (Note 27). The uncertainty concerning the actual
outflows of provisions relates to both the amounts and the timing of potential future events.
Furthermore, impairment testing mainly of goodwill and development projects requires judgments by management, among
other things with respect to the determination of CGUs, the estimation of future cashflows, growth rates and discount rates
to apply (Notes 2, 8, 9 and 10). Significant judgment is also required for the determination of the fair value of assets acquired
and liabilities assumed in business combinations (Note 3) and for the valuation of drawing rights (Note 8). For drawing rights,
the most important judgments relate to the estimation of the required maintenance and replacement outlays. Estimates are
based on historical quoted market prices, experience and assumptions that are considered reasonable under the
circumstances.
For lease contracts under IFRS 16 that include renewal options, determining the lease term involves judgment based on the
underlying asset class, past practices and current business outlooks. The assessment of these renewal options affects the
lease term of these contracts and, in turn, the recognized lease liabilities and the corresponding right-of-use assets.
Exchange rates
The currency exchange rates that were used in preparing the consolidated financial  statements are listed below for the most
important currencies.
1 euro = Exchange rate at balance sheet
dateAverage exchange rate
2019 2018 2019 2018
US dollar 1.12 1.15 1.12 1.18
Swiss franc 1.09 1.13 1.11 1.16
Brazilian real 4.52 4.44 4.41 4.31
Chinese renminbi 7.82 7.88 7.73 7.81
Presentation of consolidated income statement
DSM presents expenses in the consolidated income statement in accordance with their function. This allows the presentation
of gr
oss margin on the face of the income statement, which is a widely used performance measure in the industry. The
composition of the costs allocated to the individual functions is explained below.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 177 www.dsm.comCost of sales enc omp asses all manufacturing costs (including raw materials, employee benefits, and depreciation and
amortization) related to goods and services captured in net sales. These are measured at their actual cost based on FIFO, or
weighted average cost.
Marketing and sales relates to the selling and marketing of goods and services, and also includes all costs that are directly
related to the sale of goods, but are not originated by the manufacturing of the goods (e.g., outbound freight).
Research and development consists of:
- Research, which is defined as original and planned investigation undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or
technical knowledge and understanding
- Development, which is defined as the application of research findings or other knowledge to a plan or design for the
production of new or substantially improved materials, devices, products, processes, systems or services before the start
of commercial production or use
General and administrative relates to the strategic and governance role of the general management of the company as well
as the representation of DSM as a whole in the financial, political or business community. It also relates to business support
activities of staff departments that are not directly related to the other functional areas.
2 Alternative performance measures
In
 presenting and discussing DSM's financial position, operating results and net results, management uses certain Alternative
perf
ormance measures not defined by IFRS. These Alternative performance measures (APMs) should not be viewed in isolation
as alternatives to the equivalent IFRS measures and should be used as supplementary information in conjunction with the
most directly comparable IFRS measures. Alternative performance measures do not have standardized meaning under IFRS
and therefore may not be comparable to similar measures presented by other companies.
To provide clear reporting on the developments of the business, APM adjustments are made that impact the EBIT(DA), net
profit, ROCE and the EPS. A reconciliation of these Alternative performance measures to the most directly comparable IFRS
measures can be found in the table Alternative performance measures.
The APM adjustments to net profit, as included in the APMs, can be specified as follows:
2019 2018
APM adjustments:
- Acquisitions/divestments 13 -
- Other consolidation changes - (11)
- Restructuring 68 68
- Other 17 11
- Impairments of PPE and intangible assets 23 32
- Income tax related to adjustments (27) (23)
- Adjustments to result in associates and joint ventures (28) (122)
Total APM adjustments (income)/expense 66 (45)
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 178 www.dsm.comConsolidated financia l  statements - Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
2019
The AP M adjustments in 20
19 are listed below:
- Acquisition and divestment costs of € 13 million relate
mainly to the acquisition of Yimante, Andre Pectin and
Royal CSK
- Restructuring costs of € 68 million relate to project costs
of the restructuring projects together with the
redundancy schemes associated with the dismissal of
employees and costs of termination of contracts
- The other APM adjustment of € 17 million relates to the
provision for soil cleaning within Corporate Activities
- Impairments of property, plant and equipment (PPE) and
intangible assets of € 23 million relate mainly to a
development project of DSM Nutritional Products and
the impairment of an investment project within DSM
Food Specialties
- APM adjustments to the result from associates and joint
ventures of € 28 million mainly relate to the step-up to
the fair value of the associate Andre Pectin prior to the
acquisition2018
The APM adjustments in 20
18 are listed below:
- Restructuring costs of € 68 million relate to project costs
of the restructuring projects together with the
redundancy schemes associated with the dismissal of
employees and costs of termination of contracts
- The other consolidation change relates to the
deconsolidation of Yantai Andre Pectin, which led to an
accounting profit of € 11 million
- The other APM adjustments of € 11 million relate to a
changed and remeasured earn-out arrangement with
Amyris Brasil
- Impairments of property, plant and equipment (PPE) and
intangible assets of € 32 million relate mainly to an R&D
building of DSM Nutritional Products in Switzerland and
the impairment of a development project within DSM
Food Specialties
- APM adjustments to the result from associates and joint
ventures mainly relate to the gain on the sale of the 50%
share in DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals (DSP) of
€ 109 million and the gain on the sale of the shares in
Essential Medical of € 13 million
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 179 www.dsm.comAlternative performance measures
2019 2018
Operating pr ofit 954 1,245
Depreciation, amortization and impairments 632 509
EBITDA 1,586 1,754
APM adjustments to EBITDA:
- Acquisitions/divestments 13 -
- Other consolidation changes - (11)
- Restructuring 68 68
- Other 17 11
Total APM adjustments 98 68
Adjusted EBITDA 1,684 1,822
Operating pr ofit 954 1,245
APM adjustments to Operating pr ofit :
- APM adjustments to EBITDA 98 68
- Impairments of PPE and intangible assets 23 32
Total APM adjustments 121 100
Adjusted operating pr ofit 1,075 1,345
Profit f or the year 764 1,079
APM adjustments to:
- Operating pr ofit 121 100
- Result relating to associates/joint ventures (28) (122)
Income tax related to APM adjustments (27) (23)
Total APM adjustments 66 (45)
Adjusted net pr ofit 830 1,034
Profit attribut abl e to non-controlling interests (7) (2)
Dividend on cumulative preference shares (8) (8)
Adjusted net pr ofit  available to holders of ordinary shares 815 1,024
Earnings per share
Average number of ordinary shares outstanding (x 1,000) 175,731 175,323
Effect of dilution due to share options (x 1,000) 1,088 1,000
Adjusted average number of ordinary shares outstanding (x 1,000) 176,819 176,323
Earnings per share (EPS) (in €):
- Net basic EPS 4.27 6.10
- Net diluted EPS 4.24 6.06
- Adjusted net basic EPS 4.64 5.84
- Adjusted net diluted EPS 4.61 5.81
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 180 www.dsm.comConsolidated financia l  statements - Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
Alternative performance measures
2019 2018
Capital employed
Intangible assets 3,515 3,090
Property, plant and equipment 4,040 3,511
Investment grants / drawing rights (96) (94)
Inventories 2,019 1,993
Current receivables 1,698 1,738
Current liabilities (1,865) (2,057)
Capital employed at 31 December 9,311 8,181
Average capital employed
Capital employed at 1 January 8,39617,766
Capital employed at 31 March 8,907 7,740
Capital employed at 30 June 8,735 8,115
Capital employed at 30 September 9,330 8,220
Capital employed at 31 December 9,311 8,181
Average capital employed 8,936 8,004
Adjusted operating pr ofit 1,075 1,345
ROCE in % 12.0 16.8
Cash provided by operating activities 1,385 1,391
Cash impact APM adjustments 57 94
Capital expenditure (627) (673)
Payments regarding drawing rights (14) (20)
Financial lease IAS 17 (2018) - 18
Adjusted net operating free cash flow 801 810
1 Increased by € 215 million compared to 31 December 2018 due to the adoption of IFRS 16.
3 Change in the scope of the consolidation
Ac
quisitions
In 2019, DSM acquired businesses for a total consideration of € 585 million.
On 14 March 20
19, DSM Hydrocolloids purchased an additional 46.05% stake in Andre Pectin (Yantai, China) for a cash
consideration of € 159 million, leading to a total shareholding of 75% and full control in Andre Pectin. The remaining 25% of
the shares in Andre Pectin continues to be held by the Shandong Andre Group Co., Ltd., which supplies raw materials and
utilities. Based on the contractual agreement in the Sales and purchase agreement, the company was consolidated as of
1 January 2019. In accordance with IFRS 3, the purchase price was allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities acquired,
resulting in a goodwill amount of € 134 million. The acquisition of Andre Pectin contributed € 58 million to net sales and
€ 25 million to Adjusted EBITDA in 2019.
On 31 July 2019, DSM Engineering Plastics acquired the specialty materials business of SRF Ltd. (Pantnagar, India) for a cash
consideration of € 41 million. The acquisition will further cement DSM Materials' position in India as the leading player in,
among other industrial sectors, engineering plastics in this fast-growing economy, and fits with its strategic aim of generating
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 181 www.dsm.comleading positions in f a st-growing economies. In accordance with IFRS 3, the purchase price was allocated to identifiable assets
and liabilities acquired, resulting in a goodwill amount of € 13 million. The acquisition of SRF's specialty materials business
contributed € 10 million to net sales and € 1 million to Adjusted EBITDA in 2019. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January
2019, the contribution to net sales would have been approximately € 27 million and Adjusted EBITDA € 3 million.
On 27 August 2019, DSM Nutritional Products acquired the vitamin E business of Nenter & Co., Inc., with Nenter keeping a 25%
non-controlling interest, via a newly created company, Yimante Health Ingredients (Jingzhou) Company Ltd. By this transaction,
DSM acquired all Nenter's Jingzhou vitamin E production and related assets and now owns and will operate the vitamin E
production facilities in Jingzhou (Hubei Province, China). Yimante has a minority shareholding of 33% in Nenter's Shishou
facility (Hubei Province, China), where an intermediate for vitamin E is produced. The company will produce vitamin E
exclusively for DSM. DSM immediately started implementing the anticipated upgrading and refurbishment activities to secure
a high-quality and sustainable supply of vitamin E that complies with DSM's safety, health and environmental standards, and
therefore stopped production. In accordance with IFRS 3, the purchase price amounting to € 139 million was provisionally
allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, pending completion of an independent valuation process. Due to
the shutdown as from the transaction date, the acquisition of Nenter's vitamin E business did not contribute to net sales and
Adjusted EBITDA in 2019.
On 27 December 2019, DSM Food Specialties acquired a 100% interest in specialty dairy solutions provider Koninklijke CSK
Food Enrichment C.V. (Royal CSK) (Wageningen, Netherlands) for a cash consideration of € 160 million. With the acquisition
of Royal CSK, DSM will further strengthen its product portfolio and application know-how and expertise in food & beverage.
In accordance with IFRS 3, the purchase price was provisionally allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, pending
completion of an independent valuation process. The acquisition did not yet contribute to net sales and Adjusted EBITDA
in 2019. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2019, additional net sales would have been approximately € 65 million
and Adjusted EBITDA € 11 million.
Together, the acquisitions in 2019 contributed € 68 million to net sales and € 26 million to Adjusted EBITDA. If all acquisitions
had occurred on 1 January 2019, additional net sales would have been approximately € 150 million and Adjusted EBITDA
€ 39 million.
The goodwill recognized for these acquisitions is in general not deductible for corporate income tax with the exception of SRF.
The main impact of a Purchase Price Allocation is the recognition of intangible assets. The valuation techniques DSM used
for measuring the fair value of these intangible assets were as follows:
- Technology: was valued by applying the relief-from-royalty method, an income approach whereby the value of an asset is
estimated by capitalizing the royalties saved as a result of owning the asset; and by applying the multi-period excess
earnings method (MEEM) considering the present value of net cash flows expected to be generated by the customer
relationships
- Customer relationships: the fair values were determined by applying the MEEM and via the cost approach based on historic
market and sales expenses of the business
- Supplier relationships: were valued using the discounted cash flow (DCF) method, based on discounting the cash flows
that can be attributed to the supplier relationships and after taking into account the contribution of other assets to the
cash flow of these intangible assets
The impact of the acquisitions on DSM's consolidated balance sheet (measured at the date of acquisition) is shown in the
following table.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 182 www.dsm.comConsolidated financia l  statements - Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
Acquisitions 2019Andre Pectin Yimante
(pro
visional)Royal CSK
(pro
visional)SRF Other Total
Book
va
lueFair
va
lueBook
va
lueFair
va
lueBook
va
lueFair
va
lueBook
va
lueFair
va
lueBook
va
lueFair
va
lueBook
va
lueFair
va
lue
Assets
Intangible assets 3 76 10 28 - - - 18 - 3 13 125
Property, plant and equipment 33 43 63 55 42 42 6 7 - - 144 147
Other non-current assets - - 22 22 - - - - - - 22 22
Inventories 27 29 28 29 12 12 3 3 - - 70 73
Receivables 23 23 13 13 10 10 4 3 - - 50 49
Cash and cash equivalents 10 10 2 2 5 5 - - 1 1 18 18
Total assets 96 181 138 149 69 69 13 31 1 4 317 434
Non-controlling interests and
liabilities
Non-controlling interests - 32 23 25 - - - - - - 23 57
Non-current liabilities - 16 21 24 9 9 - - - 1 30 50
Current liabilities 17 38 25 25 14 14 3 3 - - 59 80
Total non-controlling interests
and liabilities 17 86 69 74 23 23 3 3 - 1 112 187
Net assets 79 95 69 75 46 46 10 28 1 3 205 247
Acquisition price (in cash) 159 125 160 41 15 500
Fair value of associate
contribut
ed 66 - - - - 66
Acquisition price (payable) 4 14 - - 1 19
Consideration 229 139 160 41 16 585
Goodwill 134 64 114 13 13 338
Acquisition costs recognized in
APM adjustments 3 4 1 1 - 9
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 183 www.dsm.com4 Segment information
DS
M's operating segments are Nutrition, Materials and the
Innovation Center. DSM has segmented its operations by
business activity from which revenues are earned and
expenses incurred. These operating results are regularly
reviewed by the entity's chief operating decision maker
(CODM) to make decisions about resources to be allocated
to the segment and assess its performance. DSM uses
Adjusted EBITDA as the main indicator to evaluate the
consolidated performance as well as the performance per
segment. Discrete financial information is available for each
identified segment. The accounting policies of the operating
segments are the same as those described in the Summary
of significant accounting policies. Transactions between
segments are generally executed at market-based prices.
Interest income, interest expense, and income tax expense
or income are not allocated to segments as these amounts
are not included in the measure of segment profit or loss
reviewed by the CODM, or otherwise regularly provided to
the CODM.
Nutrition serves the global industries for animal feed, food
& beverages, pharmaceuticals, infant nutrition, dietary
supplements, and personal care. It does so by the
production of pure active ingredients, their incorporation
into sophisticated forms, and the provision of tailored
premixes and forward solutions.Materials is a global player in specialty plastics, which are
used in components f
or the electrical and electronics,
automotive, flexible food-packaging, and consumer goods
industries. Furthermore, Materials is a global player in
providing innovative, sustainable resins solutions for paints
and industrial and optical fiber coatings, as well as the fiber
Dyneema®.
The Innovation Center focuses on innovation and the
growth of DSM's existing core business through adjacent
technologies via its Corporate Research Program as well as
through the company's venturing and licensing activities.
Additionally, it identifies and invests in new and innovative
growth options. The Innovation Center is responsible for
developing and extracting value from DSM's Emerging
Business Areas.
Any consolidated activities outside the three reported
segments are reported as 'Corporate Activities'. These
mainly comprise operating and service activities as well as
several costs that cannot be allocated to the clusters.
DSM does not have a single external customer that
represents 10% or more of total sales.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 184 www.dsm.comConsolidated financia l  statements - Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
Geographical information
2018Nether-
landsRest of
West
ern
EuropeEastern
Eur
opeNorth
Americ aLatin
Americ aChina India Japan Rest of
AsiaRest of
the
worldTotal
Net sales by origin
In € million 2,299 3,301 195 1,403 574 938 95 113 264 85 9,267
In % 25 36 2 15 6 10 1 1 3 1 100
Net sales by destination
In € million 405 2,229 597 2,070 1,081 1,131 233 322 906 293 9,267
In % 4 24 7 22 12 12 3 3 10 3 100
Workforce at year-end (headcount) 3,827 5,069 523 3,281 2,214 4,104 556 204 904 295 20,977
Average workforce (FTE) 3,644 4,851 511 3,258 2,139 4,335 545 199 884 284 20,650
Intangible assets and Property,
plant and e
quipment
Capital expenditure 150 208 7 121 36 116 3 3 6 3 653
Carrying amount 1,678 1,961 33 1,823 362 568 19 41 93 23 6,601
Total assets (total DSM) 5,094 2,732 143 2,778 939 1,064 132 170 482 107 13,641
2019
Net sales by origin
In € million 2,173 2,667 197 1,568 722 976 97 136 370 104 9,010
In % 24 30 2 17 8 11 1 2 4 1 100
Net sales by destination
In € million 351 2,088 591 2,046 1,116 1,098 236 301 898 285 9,010
In % 4 23 7 23 12 12 3 3 10 3 100
Workforce at year-end (headcount) 3,960 5,133 575 3,346 2,134 4,960 681 205 888 292 22,174
Average workforce (FTE) 3,785 5,004 534 3,336 2,232 4,515 558 209 924 293 21,390
Intangible assets and Property,
plant and e
quipment
Capital expenditure 164 210 10 125 22 76 1 3 9 3 623
Carrying amount 2,052 2,071 44 1,946 380 822 56 50 102 32 7,555
Total assets (total DSM) 4,111 3,109 156 2,874 944 1,406 165 148 419 111 13,443
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 185 www.dsm.comBusiness segments
2019Nutrition Materials Innovation
Cent
erCorporate
ActivitiesElimina-
tionsTotal
Financial performance
Net sales 6,028 2,746 194 42 - 9,010
Supplies to other clusters 50 11 19 - (80) -
Supplies 6,078 2,757 213 42 (80) 9,010
Adjusted EBITDA11,250 509 22 (97) - 1,684
EBITDA 1,224 493 18 (149) - 1,586
Adjusted operating pr ofit1881 363 (19) (150) - 1,075
Operating pr ofit 832 347 (23) (202) - 954
Depreciation and amortization 350 144 37 41 - 572
Impairments 42 2 4 12 - 60
- of which included in APM adjustments 23 - - - - 23
Additions to provisions 8 11 2 50 - 71
Result related to associates and joint ventures 7 - (2) 49 - 54
R&D costs2148 106 63 32 - 349
Employee benefit c osts 1,062 373 90 286 - 1,811
Financial position
Total assets 8,324 2,238 776 2,105 - 13,443
Total liabilities 2,119 628 57 2,804 - 5,608
Capital employed at year-end 6,731 1,927 616 37 - 9,311
Capital expenditure 420 139 34 30 - 623
Share in equity of associates and joint ventures 29 3 74 49 - 155
Adjusted EBITDA margin (in %) 20.7 18.5 18.7
Workforce
Average in FTE 13,874 4,767 707 2,042 - 21,390
Year-end (headcount) 14,599 4,762 726 2,087 - 22,174
1 See Note 2 'Alternative performance measures' for the reconciliation to Adjusted EBITDA of € 1,684 million (2018: € 1,822 million) and other IFRS performance measures.
2R
&D costs relate to the functional area Research and development and exclude R&D costs included in the functional areas Cost of sales and Marketing and sales as well
as R&D expenditure capitalized.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 186 www.dsm.comConsolidated financia l  statements - Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
Business segments
2018Nutrition Materials Innovation
Cent
erCorporate
ActivitiesElimina-
tionsTotal
Financial performance
Net sales 6,137 2,913 172 45 - 9,267
Supplies to other clusters 46 9 19 - (74) -
Supplies 6,183 2,922 191 45 (74) 9,267
Adjusted EBITDA 1,407 512 8 (105) - 1,822
EBITDA 1,379 490 7 (122) - 1,754
Adjusted operating pr ofit 1,111 383 (14) (135) - 1,345
Operating pr ofit 1,050 362 (15) (152) - 1,245
Depreciation and amortization 291 128 22 28 - 469
Impairments 38 - - 2 - 40
- of which included in APM adjustments 33 (1) - - - 32
Additions to provisions 8 11 2 14 - 35
Result related to associates and joint ventures 3 - (2) 128 - 129
R&D costs1153 114 50 31 - 348
Employee benefit c osts 1,023 361 79 290 - 1,753
Financial position
Total assets 7,201 2,293 735 3,412 - 13,641
Total liabilities 2,011 729 59 3,027 - 5,826
Capital employed at year-end 5,683 1,878 597 23 - 8,181
Capital expenditure 463 132 32 26 - 653
Share in equity of associates and joint ventures 54 3 71 77 - 205
Adjusted EBITDA margin (in %) 22.9 17.6 19.7
Workforce
Average in FTE 13,432 4,566 681 1,971 - 20,650
Year-end (headcount) 13,628 4,643 701 2,005 - 20,977
1 R&D costs relate to the functional area Research and development and exclude R&D costs included in the functional areas Cost of sales and Marketing and sales as well
as R
&D expenditure capitalized.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 187 www.dsm.com5 Net sales and costs
Net s
ales
2019 2018
Goods sold 8,833 9,091
Services rendered 159 164
Royalties 18 12
Total 9,010 9,267
Fulfillment of the performanc e obligations related to goods
sold is measured using the commercial shipment terms as
an indicator for the transfer of control. Fulfillment of the
performance obligations for services rendered is identified
according to the individual contract. The payment terms are
determined per business segment on a customer basis.
DSM has neither specific obligations for returns or refunds,
nor specific warranties or other related obligations.
Disaggregation of net sales
2019 2018
Nutrition
DSM Nutritional Products:
- Animal Nutrition & Health 2,892 3,134
- Human Nutrition & Health 2,046 2,019
- Personal Care & Aroma
Ingredients 425 382
- Other 93 112
5,456 5,647
DSM Food Specialties 572 490
Total 6,028 6,137
Materials
DSM Engineering Plastics 1,406 1,516
DSM Dyneema 338 344
DSM Resins & Functional
Materia
ls 1,002 1,053
Total 2,746 2,913
Innovation Center 194 172
Corporate Activities 42 45
Total 9,010 9,267Total costs
In 20 19
, total operating costs amounted to € 8.1 billion,
€ 0.1 billion higher than in 2018, when these costs stood at
€ 8.0 billion. Total operating costs in 2019 included Cost of
sales amounting to € 6.0 billion (2018: € 5.9 billion); gross
margin as a percentage of net sales stood at 34%
(2018: 37%).
Employee benefit costs
2019 2018
Wages and salaries 1,474 1,433
Social security costs 187 185
Pension costs (see also Note
24) 116 110
Share-based compensation
(see a lso Not
e 27) 34 25
Total 1,811 1,753
Depreciation, amortization and impairments
2019 2018
Amortization of intangible
as
sets 175 149
Depreciation of propert y, plant
and equipment 347 320
Depreciation of right-of-use
as
sets 50 -
Impairment losses 60 40
Total 632 509
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 188 www.dsm.comConsolidated financia l  statements - Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
Other operating income
2019 2018
Release of provisions 6 8
Gain on sale of assets and
activities 7 25
Insurance benefits 16 18
Amendments/settlements to
pension pl ans 16 11
Earn-out payments and other
settl
ements 48 10
Release translation reserve 11 -
Legal settlements 8 2
Sundry 34 30
Total 146 104
Other operating expense
2019 2018
Additions to provisions 67 36
Exchange differences 10 7
Acquisitions/Disposals 11 7
Earn-out Amyris Brasil - 11
Sundry 20 22
Total 108 836 Financial income and expense
2019 2018
Financial income
Interest income 9 13
Fair value change in
deriv ativ
es 20 -
Unwinding of discounted
rec
eivables 1 5
Total financia l  income 30 18
Financial expense
Interest expense (92) (102)
Interest relating to lease
liabilities (7) -
Interest relating to defined
benefit pl ans (7) (6)
Capitalized interest during
construction 3 5
Exchange differences (2) (3)
Unwinding of discounted
pa
yables (8) (12)
Sundry (9) (1)
Total financia l  expense (122) (119)
Financial inc ome  and expense (92) (101)
In 2019, the interest rate applied in the capitalization of
inter
est during construction was 3% (2018: 4%).
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 189 www.dsm.com7 Income tax
The
 income tax expense on the total result was € 152 million,
which represents an effective income tax rate of 17.6% (2018:
€ 194 million, representing an effective income tax rate of
17.0%) and can be broken down as follows:
2019 2018
Current tax expense:
- Current year (89) (162)
- Prior-year adjustments (4) 3
- Tax credits compensated 3 4
- Non-recoverable withholding tax (1) (1)
(91) (156)
Deferred tax expense:
- Originating from temporary differences
and their r e
versal (12) 23
- Tax benefit fr om inno vation facilities 14 -
- Prior-year adjustments 6 4
- Change in tax rate (26) (8)
- Changes arising fr om  (reversal of) write-
down of deferred tax assets (3) (8)
- Other changes in tax losses and tax
credits (40) (49)
(61) (38)
Total (152) (194)
Of which related to:
- Adjusted taxable result (179) (217)
- APM adjustments 27 23
The effective tax rate in 2019 was negatively impacted by
the change in t
ax rate of -€ 26 million (mainly an increase
in the tax rate in Switzerland with effect from 1 January 2020,
impacting the deferred tax position as at 31 December 2019),
which was partly compensated for by the tax benefit from
innovation facilities of € 14 million.
The effective tax rate on the Adjusted taxable result was
18.2% in 2019 (2018: 17.4%). The change in tax rates primarily
relates to the increase in the tax rate in Switzerland with
effect from 1 January 2020, impacting the deferred tax
position as at 31 December 2019.
Within other effects, the impact of the tax benefits for
innovation facilities previous years was included with an
impact of -1.5%.The relationship between the income tax rate in the
Netherl ands and the eff
ective tax rate on the result is as
follows:
Effective tax rate
in % 2019 2018
Domestic income tax rate 25.0 25.0
Tax effects of:
- Deviating rates (6.9) (8.0)
- Change in tax rates 2.6 0.7
- Tax-exempt inc ome  and non-deductible
expense (1.5) (0.9)
- Other effects (1.0) 0.6
Effective tax rate adjusted result 18.2 17.4
APM adjustments (see Note 2) (0.6) (0.4)
Total effective tax rate 17.6 17.0
The balance of deferred tax assets and deferred tax
liabilities incre
ased by € 73 million owing to the changes
presented in the following table:
Deferred tax assets and liabilities
2019 2018
Balance at 1 January
Deferred tax assets 248 281
Deferred tax liabilities (254) (259)
Total (6) 22
Changes:
- Income tax  income/(expense) in income
statement (35) (30)
- Income tax: change in tax percentage (26) (8)
Total income statement (61) (38)
- Income tax expense in OCI 5 20
- Acquisitions and disposals (20) (17)
- Other consolidation changes - 3
- Exchange differences (6) -
- Transfer 9 4
Balance at 31 December (79) (6)
Of which:
- Deferred tax assets 217 248
- Deferred tax liabilities (296) (254)
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 190 www.dsm.comConsolidated financia l  statements - Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
In various countries, DSM has taken standpoints regarding its tax position which may at any time be challenged, or have
alr
eady been challenged, by the tax authorities, because the authorities in question interpret the law differently. These
uncertainties are taken into account in determining the probability of realization of deferred tax assets and liabilities.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to the following balance sheet items:
Deferred tax assets and liabilities by balance sheet item
2019 2018
Deferred tax
as
setsDeferred tax
liabilitiesDeferred tax
as
setsDeferred tax
liabilities
Intangible assets 8 (184) 12 (161)
Property, plant and equipment 27 (182) 21 (166)
Right-of-use assets 3 (47) - -
Financial assets 7 (10) 3 (10)
Inventories 44 (40) 64 (34)
Receivables 8 (21) 8 (14)
Equity - - 1 (1)
Lease liabilities non-current 36 (1) - -
Other non-current liabilities 9 (2) 14 (3)
Non-current provisions 100 (5) 77 (2)
Other current liabilities 86 (4) 87 (5)
Lease liabilities current 11 - - -
339 (496) 287 (396)
Tax losses carried forward 78 103 -
Set-off (200) 200 (142) 142
Total 217 (296) 248 (254)
No deferred tax assets were recognized for loss carryforwards amounting to € 273 million (2018: € 237 million). Unrecognized
los
s carryforwards amounting to € 104 million will expire in the years up to and including 2024 (2018: € 58 million up to and
including 2023), € 87 million between 2025 and 2029 (2018: € 112 million between 2024 and 2028) and the remaining € 82 million
in 2030 and beyond (2018: € 67 million between 2029 and beyond).
The valuation of deferred tax assets depends on the probability of the reversal of temporary differences and the utilization
of tax loss carryforwards, tax credits and withholding tax. Deferred tax assets are recognized for future tax benefits arising
from temporary differences and for tax loss carryforwards to the extent that the tax benefits are likely to be realized. In the
Netherlands, tax losses may be carried forward for six years. DSM has to assess the likelihood that deferred tax assets will be
recovered from future taxable profits. Deferred tax assets are reduced if, and to the extent that, it is not probable that all or
some portion of the deferred tax assets will be realized. In the event that actual future results differ from estimates, and
depending on tax strategies that DSM may be able to implement, changes to the measurement of deferred taxes could be
required, which could impact on the company's financial position and profit for the year.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 191 www.dsm.com8 Intangible assets
Goodwill Licenses
and p at
entsUnder
constructionDevelopment
projectsOther Total
Balance at 1 January 2018
Cost 1,950 225 66 215 1,657 4,113
Amortization and impairment
los
ses 17 100 - 33 905 1,055
Carrying amount 1,933 125 66 182 752 3,058
Changes in carrying amount:
- Capital expenditure - - 38 70 - 108
- Put into operation - 7 (31) - 24 -
- Acquisitions (53) 18 - - 98 63
- Deconsolidation (1) (19) - - (3) (23)
- Amortization - (11) - (11) (127) (149)
- Impairment losses - (1) - (14) (2) (17)
- Exchange differences 30 - 1 3 14 48
- Other r eclassifications - (12) (24) 23 15 2
(24) (18) (16) 71 19 32
Balance at 31 December 2018
Cost 1,927 206 50 296 1,776 4,255
Amortization and impairment
los
ses 18 99 - 43 1,005 1,165
Carrying amount 1,909 107 50 253 771 3,090
Changes in carrying amount:
- Capital expenditure - 1 50 51 8 110
- Put into operation - 4 (26) - 22 -
- Acquisitions 338 1 - - 124 463
- Amortization - (13) - (26) (136) (175)
- Impairment losses - (2) - (21) (8) (31)
- Exchange differences 36 2 1 4 12 55
- Other - - (4) 6 1 3
374 (7) 21 14 23 425
Balance at 31 December 2019
Cost 2,301 216 71 338 1,966 4,892
Amortization and impairment
los
ses 18 116 - 71 1,172 1,377
Carrying amount 2,283 100 71 267 794 3,515
The amortization  of intangible assets is included in Cost of sales, Marketing and sales, Research and development and General
and administrative expenses.
Over the past few years, DSM has acquired several entities in business combinations that have been accounted for by the
acquisition method, resulting in recognition of goodwill and other intangible assets. The amounts assigned to the acquired
assets and liabilities are based on assumptions and estimates about their fair values. In making these estimates, management
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 192 www.dsm.comConsolidated financia l  statements - Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
consults independent, qua lified  appraisers if appropriate. A change in assumptions and estimates could change the values
allocated to certain assets and their estimated useful lives, which could affect the amount or timing of charges to the income
statement, such as amortization of intangible assets. The impairments of € 31 million mainly relate to several development
projects. See also Note 2 'Alternative performance measures'.
The breakdown of the carrying amount of goodwill at year-end 2019 is as follows:
Goodwill per acquisition
Acquisition 2019 2018 Cash generating unitFunctional
curr
encyYear of
acquisition
Martek 413 406 DSM Nutritional Products USD 2011
NeoResins 358 358 DSM Resins & Functional Materials EUR 2005
Fortitech 310 304 DSM Nutritional Products USD 2012
Ocean Nutrition Canada 204 191 DSM Nutritional Products CAD 2012
Kensey Nash 144 141 DSM Biomedical USD 2012
Andre Pectin 135 - DSM Hydrocolloids CNY 2019
Royal CSK1114 - DSM Food Specialties EUR 2019
Tortuga 89 90 DSM Nutritional Products BRL 2013
The Polymer Technology Group 78 76 DSM Biomedical USD 2008
Yimante165 - DSM Nutritional Products CNY 2019
Other acquisitions 373 343
Total 2,283 1,909
1 Based on provisional PPA, see Note 3 'Change in the scope of the consolidation'.
Goodwill per Cash generating unit
Cash generating unit 2019 2018
DSM Nutritional Products 1,26011,155
DSM Resins & Functional
Materia
ls 384 384
DSM Biomedical 222 218
DSM Food Specialties 164122
DSM Hydrocolloids 157 49
DSM Dyneema 42 40
DSM Engineering Plastics 29 16
DSM Advanced Solar 16 16
DSM Bio-based Products &
Services 9 9
Total 2,283 1,909
1 Contains provisional PPA, see Note 3 'Change in the scope of the consolidation'.The annual impairment tests of goodwill are performed in
the fourth quart
er. The recoverable amount of the Cash
generating units (CGUs) concerned is based on a value-in-
use calculation. DSM Nutritional Products, DSM Resins &
Functional Materials and DSM Biomedical are the three
CGUs to which significant amounts of (provisional) goodwill
are allocated.
The cash flow projections are derived from DSM's business
plan (Corporate Strategy Dialogue) as adopted by the
Managing Board and updated on a yearly basis. Mature
businesses come to a terminal value after five years. The
terminal value growth rate is determined with the
assumption of limited inflationary growth. For emerging
businesses, an explicit forecast period of ten years is used
with the same assumption for growth in the terminal value.
The key assumptions in the cash flow projections relate to
the market growth for the CGUs and the related revenue
projections, EBITDA developments, and the rates used for
discounting cash flows.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 193 www.dsm.comKey assumptions for goodwill impairment tests
2019 2018
Forecast period (years)
- Mature business 5 5
- Emerging business 10 10
Terminal value growth 1% 1%
Pre-tax discount rate
- DSM Nutritional Products 8.1% 7.9%
- DSM Resins & Functional
Materia
ls 10.2% 9.7%
- DSM Biomedical 10.2% 9.8%
Organic Sales growth
DSM Nutritional Products
- Year 1–5 2-6% 3-8%
DSM Resins & Functional Materials
- Year 1–5 3-9% 3-9%
DSM Biomedical
- Year 1–10 8% 8%For DSM Nutritional Products the growth assumptions are
ba
sed on the growth of the global food and feed markets,
for DSM Resins & Functional Materials on the demand for
advanced coating resins (influenced by growth in building
and construction markets), for DSM Biomedical on the
growth of the market for medical devices.
A sensitivity test was performed on the impairment tests
of the CGUs and showed that the conclusions of these tests
would not have been different if reasonable possible
adverse change in key parameters had been assumed.
The market capitalization of DSM at 31 December 2019
amounted to € 21,063 million (31 December 2018:
€ 12,961 million) and was clearly above the carrying amount
of net assets, thus providing an additional indication that
goodwill was not impaired.
Development costs
The carrying amount of development costs at 31 December
2019 included € 
125 million (2018: € 224 million) mainly
relating to strategic projects which are not being amortized
yet. The recoverable amount of these CGUs was estimated
based on the present value of the future cash flows
expected to be derived from the CGUs (value-in-use).
Other intangible assets
2019 2018
Cost Amortization Carrying
amountOf which
acquisition-
r
elatedOf which
acquisition-
r
elated
Application software 288 (235) 53 2 3
Marketing-related 126 (45) 81 71 77
Customer-related 675 (365) 310 279 283
Technology-based 506 (397) 109 82 48
Drawing rights 244 (78) 166 - -
Other 127 (52) 75 50 15
Total 1,966 (1,172) 794 484 426
Total 2018 1,776 (1,005) 771 426 396
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 194 www.dsm.comConsolidated financia l  statements - Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
Other intangible assets include drawing rights contracts with Fibrant. Fibrant will continue to supply at least 80% of DSM
Engineering P
lastics' caprolactam needs in Europe and North America for 15 years (2015–2030) via a drawing rights contract,
effectively maintaining DSM Engineering Plastics' backward integration. Initially the fair value of this contract has been
recognized as an intangible asset by DSM Engineering Plastics; for subsequent measurement, the initial fair value is the
deemed cost of the asset, which is subject to straight-line amortization. At the end of 2019, it had a carrying amount of
€ 167 million (2018: € 184 million), a remaining useful life of 11 years, and an amount of € 44 million was still payable to Fibrant
for the acquisition of the drawing rights (2018: € 57 million).
Other intangible assets also include the customer relationships that were part of the Fortitech acquisition in 2012, with a
carrying amount at the end of 2019 of € 88 million (2018: € 94 million). Furthermore, acquisition-related intangibles are
included in the annual goodwill impairment test previously discussed in this section. These intangible assets are amortized
on a straight-line basis. There are no intangible assets with an indefinite useful life (same as in 2018).
9 Property, plant and equipment
'Property, plant and equipment' includes both owned and right-of-use assets.
Composition of Property, plant and equipment
31 December 2019 1 January 2019 31 December 2018
Property, plant and equipment owned 3,808 3,490 3,490
Right-of-use assets 232 236 21
Total 4,040 3,726 3,511
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 195 www.dsm.comProperty, plant and equipment owned
Land and
building
sPlant and
machineryOther
equipmentUnder
constructionNot used for
operating
activitiesTotal
Balance at 1 January 2018
Cost 2,070 4,177 219 613 14 7,093
Depreciation and impairments 889 2,726 157 - 8 3,780
Carrying amount 1,181 1,451 62 613 6 3,313
Changes in carrying amount:
- Capital expenditure 8 38 21 478 - 545
- Put into operation 53 340 13 (406) - -
- Acquisitions - (1) - - - (1)
- Disposals (7) (1) - - - (8)
- Deconsolidation (11) (15) - - - (26)
- Depreciation (72) (230) (18) - - (320)
- Impairment losses (17) (8) - - - (25)
- Impairment reversals 2 - - - - 2
- Exchange differences 12 16 - 5 - 33
- Other changes 3 (2) (1) (2) - (2)
(29) 137 15 75 - 198
Balance at 31 December 2018
Cost 2,104 4,618 247 689 12 7,670
Depreciation and impairments 952 3,030 170 1 6 4,159
Carrying amount at 31 December 2018 1,152 1,588 77 688 6 3,511
Transfer financ e  leases to Right-of-use
assets - - (21) - - (21)
Carrying amount at 1 January 2019 1,152 1,588 56 688 6 3,490
Changes in carrying amount:
- Capital expenditure 7 45 4 457 - 513
- Put into operation 82 401 15 (498) - -
- Acquisitions 48 77 2 12 - 139
- Disposals (3) - - - - (3)
- Depreciation (75) (255) (17) - - (347)
- Impairment losses (18) (10) (1) - - (29)
- Exchange differences 18 22 1 12 - 53
- Other changes - - - (8) - (8)
59 280 4 (25) - 318
Balance at 31 December 2019
Cost 2,232 5,019 235 664 12 8,162
Depreciation and impairments 1,021 3,151 175 1 6 4,354
Carrying amount 1,211 1,868 60 663 6 3,808
In 2019, impairment losses of € 29 million (2018: € 25 million) were recognized on Property, plant and equipment. See also
Note 2 '
Alternative performance measures'.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 196 www.dsm.comConsolidated financia l  statements - Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
Right-of-use assets
Land and
Building
sPlant and
MachineryOther
EquipmentVehicles Other Total
Balance at 31 December 2018 - - - - - -
Opening balance (adoption of IFRS 16) 170 10 - 31 4 215
Transfer financ e  leases (from owned PPE) - - 21 - - 21
Balance at 1 January 2019 170 10 21 31 4 236
Changes in carrying amount:
New leases / terminations 12 - 15 13 (1) 39
Remeasurements 1 - - (2) - (1)
Acquisitions 7 - - 1 - 8
Depreciation (30) (2) (3) (14) (1) (50)
(10) (2) 12 (2) (2) (4)
Balance at 31 December 2019
Cost 189 9 35 42 3 278
Depreciation and impairment losses (29) (1) (2) (13) (1) (46)
Carrying amount 160 8 33 29 2 232
For the disclosures on the lease liabilities that correspond with the right-of-use assets, see Note 19 'Borrowings'.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 197 www.dsm.com10 Associates and joint arrangements
As
sociates and joint ventures
The following table analyses, in aggregate, the carrying amount and share of profit  and other results of associates and joint
ventures.
2019 2018
Associates Joint Ventures Total Total
Balance at 1 January 139 66 205 227
- Share of the pr ofit  of associates and joint ventures 8 (20) (12) 5
- Other results related to associates and joint ventures 35 - 35 31
- Other comprehensive income 1 1 2 3
- Capital payments 3 27 30 54
- Dividends received (73) - (73) (1)
- Acquisitions 22 - 22 -
- Fair value step-up126 - 26 -
- Consolidation changes (66) - (66) 43
- Disposals (14) - (14) (146)
- Transfers 15 - 15 (3)
- Other (14) (1) (15) (8)
Balance at 31 December 82 73 155 205
1 In the 'Consolidated income statement' included in 'Other results related to associates and joint ventures'.
The joint  venture  POET -DSM Advanced Biofuels has decided
to pause production of cellulosic biofuels and shift its
activities to R&D. These activities will focus on improving
operational efficiency to create licensing technology which
supports the use of low-carbon fuels from crop residue and
other biomass products. This strategic reorientation is
mainly driven by the stalling of developments in US
environmental policies.
Other results related to associates and joint ventures
includes the excess part of dividend received from an
associate beyond its investment amount. As DSM holds no
obligation to fund beyond its original investment, no
provision should be recognized and the excess part of
€ 28 million is recognized in the income statement.
With the acquisition of Yimante Health Ingredients
(Jingzhou) Company Ltd. in 2019 (see Note 3 'Change in the
scope of the consolidation'), DSM also indirectly acquired
25% of the shares of Nenter & Co., Inc. (Shishou). The initial
value of this investment amounts to € 22 million and has
been recognized under 'Acquisitions'.The fair value step-up of € 26 million and the consolidation
chang
es of -€ 66 million both relate to the acquisition of
Andre Pectin (increase in share from 29% to 75%). Prior to
the acquisition, the value of the associate was increased by
€ 26 million to reflect the fair value. The fair value of
€ 66 million was brought in as part of the consideration of
the 75% share in Andre Pectin. See also Note 3 'Change in
the scope of the consolidation'.
Transfers includes the change of an Other participating
interest to an associate, due to an increase of DSM's share
in the company. See Note 11 'Other financial assets'.
Joint operations
In 2017, DSM and Evonik established Veramaris, a joint
operation f
or omega-3 fatty acid products from natural
marine algae for animal nutrition. DSM Nutritional Products
and Evonik Nutrition & Care each hold a 50% share in the
joint operation. In 2019, the commercial-scale USD
200 million facility located in Blair (Nebraska, USA) opened.
The joint operation is headquartered in Delft (Netherlands).
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 198 www.dsm.comConsolidated financia l  statements - Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
In 20 19, DSM and Cargill established Avansya V.O.F., a joint operation in which DSM and Cargill each hold a 50% share. Avansya
st
arted production at the first commercial-scale fermentation facility for stevia sweeteners in the US. The facility produces
EverSweet™, a non-artificial, zero-calorie stevia sweetener. The USD 50 million fermentation facility is located in Blair
(Nebraska, USA) and is operated by Cargill. The joint operation is headquartered at the Biotech Campus Delft (Netherlands).
DSM accounts for the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating to Veramaris and Avansya V.O.F. in accordance with
IFRS 11 for joint operations.
11 Other financial assets
Loans
as
sociates
and joint
venturesOther
particip
ating
interestsOther
rec
eivablesOther
deferr
ed
itemsTotal
Balance at 1 January 2018 193 89 177 16 475
Changes:
- Charged to the income statement - - (29) (5) (34)
- Acquisitions - - (13) (1) (14)
- Capital payments - 22 - - 22
- Loans granted / prepayments 8 - 2 - 10
- Repayments (175) - (29) 5 (199)
- Other consolidation changes - - - (6) (6)
- Exchange differences - - (1) - (1)
- Transfers (24) - (18) - (42)
- Changes in fair value - 16 - - 16
- Other - 37 (1) - 36
Balance at 31 December 2018 2 164 88 9 263
Changes:
- Charged to the income statement - - 9 (2) 7
- Acquisitions - - - 1 1
- Capital payments - 23 - - 23
- Loans granted / prepayments 4 - 9 - 13
- Repayments (2) - (5) - (7)
- Exchange differences - - 1 - 1
- Transfers (1) (15) 3 - (13)
- Changes in fair value - (21) - - (21)
- Other - (1) - (1) (2)
Balance at 31 December 2019 3 150 105 7 265
'Transfers' includes the change of an Other participating interest to an associate, due to an increase of DSM's share in the
comp
any. See Note 10 'Associates and joint arrangements'.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 199 www.dsm.com12 Inventories
2019 2018
Raw materials and
consumabl
es 524 509
Intermediates and finished
goods 1,576 1,574
2,100 2,083
Adjustments to lower net
re
alizable value (81) (90)
Total 2,019 1,993
The carrying amount of inventories adjusted to net
re
alizable value was € 272 million (2018: € 271 million).
Changes in the adjustment to net realizable value
2019 2018
Balance at 1 January (90) (61)
Additions charged to income
stat
ement (66) (97)
Utilization/reversals 76 69
Exchange differences (1) (1)
Balance at 31 December (81) (90)
13 Current receivables
Inf
ormation about the expected credit loss that relates to
trade
 accounts receivable resulting in a value adjustment is
included under 'Credit risk' in Note 23.
Deferred items comprised € 45 million (2018: € 40 million)
in prepaid expenses that will impact profit or loss in future
periods.Current receivables
2019 2018
Trade receivables
Trade accounts receivable 1,354 1,395
Other trade receivables 202 174
Deferred items 43 39
Receivables from associates 10 2
1,609 1,610
Value adjustment (17) (35)
Total Trade receivables 1,592 1,575
Income tax receivable 61 83
Other current receivables
Other t axes and social security
c
ontributions 31 20
Employee-related receivables 5 7
Acquisition-/disposal-related
rec
eivables 3 26
Loans - 24
Other receivables 4 2
Deferred items 2 1
Total Other current
rec
eivables 45 80
Total current receivables 1,698 1,738
14 Current investments
2019 2018
Fixed term deposits 688 1,277
Total 688 1,277
All fix ed-term deposits have been placed with institutions
with a high cr
edit rating in line with the policy as outlined
in Note 23 'Financial instruments and risks'. The purpose
of the deposits is either to meet short-term cash
commitments, or to manage liquidity to such extent that
yields are optimized while allowing DSM sufficient freedom
in fulfilling its (strategic) goals.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 200 www.dsm.comConsolidated financia l  statements - Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
15 Cash and cash equivalents
2019 2018
Deposits 104 245
Money market funds 45 340
Cash at bank and in hand 605 683
Payments in transit 44 11
Bills of exchange 2 2
Total 800 1,281
Deposits will be cla ssified as 'cash equivalent' if held at
banks with a maturity of less than three months at
inception. Deposits will be classified as 'current
investments' if the maturity is more than three months but
less than or equal to one year. The purpose of the deposits
is either to meet short-term cash commitments, or to
manage liquidity to such extent, that yields are optimized,
while allowing DSM sufficient freedom in fulfilling its
(strategic) goals.
Cash at year-end 2019 was not being used as collateral and
therefore was not restricted (same as in 2018).
In a few countries, DSM faces cross-border foreign exchange
controls and/or other legal restrictions that limit its ability
to make these balances available at short notice for general
use by the group. The amount of cash held in these
countries was € 185 million (2018: € 104 million). The cash
will generally be invested or held in the relevant country
and, given the other liquidity resources available to the
group, does not significantly affect the ability of the group
to meet its cash obligations.16 Equity
2019 2018
Balance at 1 January 7,815 7,065
Net pr ofit 764 1,079
Other comprehensive income 140 75
Options / performance shares granted 34 25
Dividend (418) (368)
Proceeds from reissue of ordinary
shares 324 242
Acquisition of NCI without a change in
contr
ol (4) -
Acquisition (divestment) of subsidiary
with NCI 57 (67)
Repurchase of shares (869) (236)
Other changes (8) -
Balance at 31 December 7,835 7,815
'Acquisition of subsidiary with NCI' relates to the
acquisitions
 of Andre Pectin and Yimante. See Note 17 'Non-
controlling interests'.
Other changes of -€ 8 million mainly relates to transactions
with minority shareholders, together with a transfer of the
fair value reserve to retained earnings.
In 2019, the following dividends were proposed by the
Managing Board:
Dividend
2019 2018
Per cumulative preference share A: € 0.17
(20
18: € 0.17) 8 8
Per ordinary share: € 2.40 (2018: € 2.30) 417 404
Total 425 412
The proposed fina l  dividend on ordinary shares is subject
to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders
and has not been deducted from Equity.
For a description of the rules of profit appropriation and
of the statutory rights attached to preference shares B, see
Note 7 'Shareholders' equity'.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 201 www.dsm.comShare capital
On 31 December 2019, the authorized capital amounted to € 1,125 million (2018: € 1,125 million), distributed over 330,960,000
ordinary 
shares, 44,040,000 cumulative preference shares A and 375,000,000 cumulative preference shares B. All shares have
a nominal value of € 1.50 each.
The changes in the number of issued and outstanding shares in 2018 and 2019 are shown in the following table.
Overview of shares
Issued shares Treasury shares
Ordinary Cumprefs A Ordinary
Balance at 1 January 2018 181,425,000 44,040,000 6,781,525
Reissue of shares in connection with share-based payments (2,090,107)
Repurchase of shares 2,700,000
Dividend in the form of ordinary shares (1,616,993)
Balance at 31 December 2018 181,425,000 44,040,000 5,774,425
Number of treasury shares at 31 December 2018 (5,774,425)
 
 Number of shares outstanding at 31 December 2018 175,650,575 44,040,000
Balance at 1 January 2019 181,425,000 44,040,000 5,774,425
Reissue of shares in connection with share-based payments (3,395,405)
Repurchase of shares 7,962,936
Dividend in the form of ordinary shares (1,365,711)
Balance at 31 December 2019 181,425,000 44,040,000 8,976,245
Number of treasury shares at 31 December 2019 (8,976,245)
 
 Number of shares outstanding at 31 December 2019 172,448,755 44,040,000
The average number of ordinary shares outstanding in 2019 was 175,730,949 (2018: 175,322,889). All shares issued are fully paid.
The c
umulative preference shares A have been classified as equity, because there is no mandatory redemption and
distributions to the shareholders are at the discretion of DSM.
On 31 December 2019, no cumulative preference shares B were outstanding (same as 2018).
Share premium
Of the total share premium of € 489 million (2018: € 489 million), an amount of € 93 million (2018: € 99 million) can be regarded
a
s entirely free of tax.
Treasury shares
On 1 April 2019 , DSM started a € 1 billion share buy-back program with the intention to reduce its issued capital. In the reporting
year, € 601 million was realized, being 5.4 million shares.
At 31 December 2019, DSM possessed 8,976,245 (2018: 5,774,425) ordinary shares with a nominal value of € 13 million, or 3.98%
(2018: 2.56%) of the share capital. The average purchase price of the ordinary treasury shares as at 31 December 2019 was
€ 100.78 (2018: € 64.22). At 31 December 2019, 3,020,830 (2018: 5,616,235) of the total number of treasury shares outstanding were
held for servicing share-option rights and share plans, 592,479 (2018: 158,190) shares for stock dividend, and 5,362,936 (2018:
0) shares earmarked for capital reduction.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 202 www.dsm.comConsolidated financia l  statements - Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
Other reserves in Shareholders' equity
Translation
reserv
eHedging
reserv
eReserve for
share-b
ased
compensationFair value
reserv
eTotal
Balance at 1 January 2018 (107) (148) 51 5 (199)
Changes:
Fair-value changes of derivatives - (44) - - (44)
Release to income statement 14 22 - - 36
Fair-value changes of other financia l  assets - - - 16 16
Exchange differences 129 - - - 129
Options and performance shares granted - - 25 - 25
Options and performance shares exercised/canceled - - (23) - (23)
Changes in joint ventures and associates (1) (3) - - (4)
Income tax 2 7 - - 9
Total changes 144 (18) 2 16 144
Balance at 31 December 2018 37 (166) 53 21 (55)
Changes:
Fair-value changes of derivatives - (18) - - (18)
Release to income statement (9) 66 - - 57
Fair-value changes of other financia l  assets - - - (21) (21)
Exchange differences 134 - - - 134
Options and performance shares granted - - 34 - 34
Options and performance shares exercised/canceled - - (36) - (36)
Transfer to retained earnings - - - 4 4
Changes in joint ventures and associates - - - 1 1
Income tax - (4) - - (4)
Total changes 125 44 (2) (16) 151
Balance at 31 December 2019 162 (122) 51 5 96
The increase in the Translation reserve in 2019 is mainly caused by a weakening of the euro against the US dollar and Swiss
franc
, partly offset by a strengthening against the Brazilian real. As a consequence, the total value of the subsidiaries increased,
which led to a positive exchange difference of € 134 million. In addition, there was a € 9 million release of the cumulative
translation reserve to the income statement.
The Translation reserve, Hedging reserve and the Fair value reserve are legal reserves in accordance with Dutch law and cannot
be distributed to shareholders. Additional information is provided in Note 7 to the 'Parent company financial statements'.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 203 www.dsm.com17 Non-controlling interests
2019 2018
Andre Pectin Yimante Other Total Total
% of non-controlling interest 25% 25%
Balance at 1 January - - 33 33 103
Changes:
- Share of pr ofit/ charged to income statement 2 - 4 6 2
- Acquisitions 32 25 - 57 (1)
- Other consolidation changes - - 9 9 (67)
- Capital payments 1 - - 1 -
- Dividend paid - - (4) (4) (3)
- Exchange differences - - 2 2 (1)
Total changes 35 25 11 71 (70)
Balance at 31 December 35 25 44 104 33
Acquisitions are  related to the consolidation of Andre Pectin, due to the acquisition of an additional 46.05% of the shares and
gain of control on 1 January 2019, and the acquisition of 75% of Yimante Health Ingredients (the vitamin E business of Nenter).
See also Note 3 'Change in the scope of the consolidation'.
'Other consolidation changes' relates to the increase of DSM's share in DSM-NIAGA from 51% to 100%.
Not fully-owned subsidiaries on a 100% basis
2019 2018
Andre Pectin Yimante Other Total
Assets
Intangible assets 70 28 32 130 34
Property, plant and equipment 48 57 178 283 173
Other non-current assets - 22 35 57 27
Inventories 34 15 27 76 27
Receivables 16 31 52 99 60
Cash and cash equivalents 5 1 35 41 20
Total assets 173 154 359 686 341
Liabilities
Provisions (non-current) 15 2 2 19 2
Borrowings (non-current) 1 38 25 64 14
Other non-current liabilities - 2 17 19 20
Borrowings and financial  derivatives (current) 3 - 72 75 79
Other current liabilities 13 11 107 131 90
Total liabilities 32 53 223 308 205
Net assets (100% basis) 141 101 136 378 136
Net sales 58 - 162 220 157
Profit for the year 9 (1) 8 16 7
Operating cash flows (4) (16) (35) (55) 86
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 204 www.dsm.comConsolidated financia l  statements - Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
18 Provisions
Restructuring
costs and
t
ermination
benefitsEnviron-
ment a
l
costsOther long-
term
empl
oyee
benefitsOther
pro
visionsTotal
Balance at 1 January 2018 39 70 42 53 204
Of which current 31 10 3 9 53
Changes in 2018
- Additions 33 1 2 2 38
- Releases (2) (9) (3) (2) (16)
- Uses (53) (4) (2) (11) (70)
- Other change - - - (3) (3)
Total changes (22) (12) (3) (14) (51)
Balance at 31 December 2018 17 58 39 39 153
Of which current 12 10 3 12 37
Changes in 2019
- Additions 43 19 4 5 71
- Releases (3) (13) - (3) (19)
- Uses (26) (5) (3) (5) (39)
- Other change - - 1 1 2
Total changes 14 1 2 (2) 15
Balance at 31 December 2019 31 59 41 37 168
Of which current 21 13 4 10 48
In cases where the effect of the time value of money is
materia
l, provisions are measured at the present value of
the expenditures expected to be required to settle the
obligation. The discount rate used decreased from 1.8% to
1.2%. The balance of provisions measured at present value
increased by € 0.3 million in 2019 in view of the passage of
time (2018: increase of € 0.6 million).
The provisions for restructuring costs and termination
benefits mainly relate to the costs of redundancy schemes
connected to the dismissal of employees and costs of
termination of contracts. These provisions have an average
life of 1 to 3 years.
The provisions for environmental costs relate to soil clean-
up obligations, among other things. These provisions have
an average life of around 10 years.The provisions for other long-term employee benefits
mainly r
elate to length-of-service and end-of-service
payments. The average life of this provision is estimated to
be between 10 and 12 years.
Several items have been combined under Other provisions,
for example demolition costs, onerous contracts and legal
risks. These provisions have an average life of 1 to 3 years.
The additions to the provisions for restructuring costs and
termination benefits in 2019 mainly relate to the various
restructuring projects (same as in 2018).
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 205 www.dsm.com19 Borrowings
2019 2018
Total Of which
curr
entTotal Of which
curr
ent
Debenture loans 2,244 - 2,543 300
Private loans 41 8 16 7
Lease liabilities 236 49 21 1
Credit institutions 132 132 72 72
Total 2,653 189 2,652 380
In agreements governing loans with a residual amount at
ye
ar-end 2019 of € 2,244 million (31 December 2018:
€ 2,543 million, of which € 300 million was of a short-term
nature), negative pledge clauses have been included that
restrict the provision of security.
The documentation of the € 500 million bond issued in
March 2014, the € 500 million bond issued in April 2015,
the € 500 million bond issued in September 2015 and the
€ 750 million bond issued in September 2016 include a
change-of-control clause. This clause allows the bond
investors to request repayment at par if 50% or more of
the DSM shares are controlled by a third party and if the
company is downgraded below investment grade (< BBB-).
In August 2019, Moody's confirmed DSM's credit rating of 'A3'
with a stable outlook. Standard & Poor's confirmed DSM's
credit rating of 'A-' with a stable outlook in September 2019.
At 31 December 2019, there was € 1,840 million in borrowings
outstanding with a remaining term of more than 5 years (at
31 December 2018, there was € 1,756 million in borrowings
outstanding with a remaining term of more than 5 years).
The schedule of repayment of borrowings is as follows:
Borrowings by maturity
2019 2018
2019 - 380
2020 189 10
2021 41 1
2022 37 503
2023 and 2024 546 505
After 2024 1,840 1,253
Total 2,653 2,652A breakdown of the borrowings by currency is given in the
foll
owing table:
Borrowings by currency
2019 2018
EUR 2,413 2,566
USD 101 25
CNY 74 21
TWD 6 17
BRL 15 19
Other 44 4
Total 2,653 2,652
On balance, total borrowings increased by € 1 million due to
the f
ollowing changes:
Movements of borrowings
2019 2018
Balance at 1 January 2,652 2,628
Opening balance lease
liabilities (adoption IFRS 16) 215 -
Loans taken up 7 7
Repayments (302) (12)
Unwinding (interest) 8 -
Acquisitions/consolidation
changes 29 10
Changes in debt to credit
institutions 57 3
New lease arrangements (incl.
reme
asurements) 39 18
Payment of lease liabilities (53) (1)
Exchange differences 1 (1)
Balance at 31 December 2,653 2,652
The average effective interest rate on the portfolio of
borrowing
s outstanding in 2019, including hedge
instruments related to these borrowings, amounted to 2.31%
(2018: 2.24%).
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 206 www.dsm.comConsolidated financia l  statements - Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
A breakdown of debenture loans is given below:
Debenture loans
Nom.
amt. 2019 2018
EUR loan 1.75% 2013—2019 300 - 300
EUR loan 2.38% 2014—2024 500 499 498
EUR loan 1.00% 2015—2025 500 498 498
EUR loan 1.38% 2015—2022 500 499 499
EUR loan 0.75% 2016—2026 750 748 748
Total 2,550 2,244 2,543
All debenture  loans have a fixed interest rate and are listed
on the AEX.
The 2.375% EUR bond 2014–2024 of € 500 million was pre-
hedged by means of forward starting swaps, resulting in an
effective interest rate for this bond of 3.97%, including the
settlement of the pre-hedge.
The 1% EUR bond 2015–2025 of € 500 million was pre-hedged
by means of forward starting swaps, resulting in an effective
interest rate for this bond at 3.65%, including the settlement
of the pre-hedge.
The 1.375% EUR bond 2015–2022 of € 500 million has an
effective interest rate of 1.40%.
The 0.75% EUR bond 2016–2026 of € 750 million was pre-
hedged by means of a collar resulting in an effective interest
rate for this bond of 1.08%, including the settlement of the
pre-hedge.
A breakdown of private loans is given below:
Private loans
2019 2018
CNY loan 40 15
Other loans 1 1
Total 41 16
A breakdown of the lease liabilities is given below:Lease liabilities by maturity
2019 2018
Oper ating
l
ease
commitments
2019 - 49
2020 49 39
2021 40 30
2022 33 25
2023 27 21
2024 24 20
After 2024 83 56
Total undiscounted lease
liabilities at 3 1 Dec
ember 256 240
Lease liabilities included in
the b a
lance sheet at
31 December 236 -
Current 49 -
Non-current 187 -
In addition to the contractual lease commitments, DSM has
identified explicit r
enewal options available to DSM, which
are currently not reasonably certain to be exercised and are
therefore not included in the measurement of the lease.
The associated future lease payments which are
uncommitted and optional for DSM, are estimated around
€ 76 million (undiscounted).
The interest expense on the lease liabilities was € 7 million
and the total repayments of the lease liabilities amounted
to € 53 million in 2019. These cash flows are reported as
financing cash flows.
DSM's policy regarding financial-risk management is
described in Note 23.
20 Other non-current liabilities
2019 2018
Investment grants 65 42
Deferred items 28 17
Drawing rights 31 52
Other non-current liabilities 21 86
Total 145 197
The decrease in the other non-current liabilities relates
mainl y t
o the settlement of the earn-out agreements
regarding the acquisition of Amyris Brasil.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 207 www.dsm.com21 Current liabilities
2019 2018
Trade payables
Received in advance 7 5
Trade accounts payable 1,330 1,405
Notes and cheques due 1 3
Owing to associates and joint
ventur
es 7 17
Total Trade payables 1,345 1,430
Income tax payable 42 100
Other current liabilities
Other t axes and social security
c
ontributions 46 58
Interest 19 21
Pensions - 3
Investment creditors 115 109
Employee-related liabilities 268 293
Payables associates and joint
ventur
es relating to cash
facility 5 5
Other liabilities 25 36
Deferred items - 2
Total Other current liabilities 478 527
Total current liabilities 1,865 2,057
Included in trade accounts payable are amounts due to
suppliers which c
ould be part of a supply chain finance
arrangement between the supplier and a third-party bank.
DSM suppliers have the option to enter into such supply
chain finance arrangements with third party banks, which
provides them with the option of earlier payment based on
terms linked to DSM's investment grade credit rating. If a
supplier chooses to participate in such an arrangement, this
does not impact the classification of the trade payable for
DSM as these supply chain finance arrangements are
concluded between the banks and the suppliers and do not
alter the payment conditions between the supplier and
DSM. Therefore, these amounts remain classified as trade
payables.
22 Contingent liabilities and other financial  obligations
The contingent liabilities and other financial  obligations
in the following table are not recognized in the balance
sheet.2019 2018
Operating leases and rents
under IAS 17 - 240
Guarantee obligations on
beha lf of a
ssociates and third
parties 182 167
Outstanding orders for
projects under c
onstruction 8 8
Other 61 42
Total 251 457
Guarantee obligations are principally related to VAT and
duties on the one hand and to 
financing obligations of
associated companies on the other. Guarantee obligations
will only lead to a cash outflow when called upon. At year-
end, no obligations had been called upon. Most of the
outstanding orders for projects under construction will be
completed in 2020.
Litigation
DSM has a process in place to monitor legal claims
periodica
lly and systematically.
DSM is involved in several legal proceedings, most of which
are related to the ordinary course of business. DSM does not
expect these proceedings to result in liabilities that have
a material effect on the company's financial position. In
cases where it is probable that the outcome of the
proceedings will be unfavorable, and the financial outcome
can be measured reliably, a provision has been recognized
in the financial statements and disclosed in Note 18
'Provisions'.
In 2015, an award was issued against DSM Sinochem
Pharmaceuticals India Private Ltd. (DSP India) in a
protracted arbitration case in India going back to 2004
involving a joint venture that DSP India had formed with
Hindustan Antibiotics Ltd., which suspended its operations
in 2003. DSP India (renamed to Centrient Pharmaceuticals
after divestment by DSM in 2018) is covered by an indemnity
from Koninklijke DSM N.V. for this case. In 2015, DSP India
made an application with the Civil Court in Pune (India) to
set aside the arbitral award. The award amounts to INR 127.5
crore (approximately € 16 million as at year-end 2019)
excluding interest of 12% per year as of 2004. In 2019, DSM
provided the Bombay High Court a bank guarantee of INR
150 crore (approximately € 19 million). At the end of 2019,
the application proceedings were still pending. DSM has
always viewed this case as unfounded and is of the opinion
that the likelihood of the award being ultimately set aside
is high. Therefore, no liability is recognized in respect of this
case.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 208 www.dsm.comConsolidated financia l  statements - Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
In 2019, Brazilian tax authorities disagreed with certain tax
tre
atment as applied by the company in 2014–2016, which
would have an effect on such prior year income tax returns
of around BRL 65 million (approximately € 15 million as at
year-end 2019), including penalties and interest. DSM views
this case as unfounded and considers that the possibility
of winning this case is high, as confirmed by external legal
counsel. Therefore no liability relating to this case is
recognized.
23 Financial instruments and risks
Policies on financial risks
General
As an international company, DSM is exposed to financial
risk
s in the normal course of business. A major objective
of our group policy is to minimize the impact of market,
liquidity and credit risk on the value of the company and its
profitability. In order to achieve this, a systematic financial
and risk management system has been established. For
the purpose of securing compliance with the risk
management policies, an internal control framework has
been implemented, and the controls are monitored and
tested periodically.
The financial derivatives contracts used by DSM are entered
into exclusively in connection with the corresponding
underlying transaction (hedged item) relating to normal
operating business. The instruments used are customary
products, such as currency swaps, cross-currency interest
rate swaps, collars, forward exchange contracts and interest
rate swaps.
An important element of DSM's financial policy and capital
management is the allocation of cash flow. DSM primarily
allocates cash flow to investments aimed at strengthening
its business positions and securing the dividend payment
to its shareholders. The remaining cash flow is further used
for acquisitions and partnerships that strengthen DSM's
competences and market positions. The net debt to equity
ratio (gearing) is 12.7 (2018: 1.4), see also Note 25 'Net debt'.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the financial  risk due to uncertain
development of liquidity. An entity may not get access to
sufficient liquidity if its credit rating falls, when it
experiences sudden unexpected cash outflows or anunexpected drop in cash inflows, or some other ev ent
causes counterparties to avoid trading with or lending to
the institution. A company is also exposed to liquidity risk
if financial markets on which it depends are subject to loss
of liquidity.
The primary objective of liquidity management is to
optimize the corporate cash position, among other things,
by securing availability of sufficient liquidity for execution
of payments by DSM entities, at the right time and the right
place.
At December 2019, DSM had cash and cash equivalents of
€ 800 million (2018: € 1,281 million).
At the end of 2019, DSM had one committed credit facility
of € 1.0 billion, after the first extension maturing on 29 May
2024. The agreement for the committed credit facility has
neither financial covenants nor material adverse changes
clauses. The committed credit facility links the interest rate
to DSM's greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reduction. At year-
end 2019, no loans had been taken up under the committed
credit facility.
Furthermore, DSM has a commercial paper program
amounting to € 1,500 million (2018: € 1,500 million). The
company will use the commercial paper program to a total
of not more than €1,000 million (2018: € 1,000 million).
At 31 December 2019, € 0 million had been issued as
commercial paper (2018: € 0 million). DSM has no derivative
contracts to manage currency risk or interest rate risk
outstanding under which margin calls by the counterparty
would be permitted.
Floating-rate and fixed-rate borrowings and monetary
liabilities analyzed by maturity are summarized in the
following table. Borrowings excluding credit institutions are
shown after taking into account related interest rate
derivatives in designated hedging relationships. DSM
manages financial liabilities and related derivative
contracts on the basis of the remaining contractual
maturities of these instruments. The remaining maturities
presented in the following table provide an overview of
the timing of the cash flows related to these instruments.
Financial assets are not linked to financial liabilities in order
to meet cash outflows on these liabilities.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 209 www.dsm.comFinancial liabilities
Carrying
amountWithin 1
ye
ar1 to 2
ye
ars2 to 3
ye
ars3 to 4
ye
ars4 to 5
ye
arsAfter 5
ye
ars
2018
Borrowings 2,652 380 10 1 504 1 1,756
Monetary liabilities 2,267 2,129 41 9 7 9 72
Guarantees 167 - - - - - 167
Derivatives 54 51 - 2 1 - -
Interest payments 184 35 29 29 29 23 39
Cash at redemption189 5 18 14 14 12 26
Total 5,413 2,600 98 55 555 45 2,060
2019
Borrowings 2,653 189 41 37 524 22 1,840
Monetary liabilities 2,049 1,997 17 3 2 3 27
Guarantees 182 - - - - - 182
Derivatives 25 18 3 1 3 - -
Interest payments 183 33 30 30 30 22 38
Cash at redemption126 5 4 4 3 3 7
Total 5,118 2,242 95 75 562 50 2,094
1 Difference between nominal redemption and amortized costs.
The following table r eflects  the exposure of the financial derivatives to liquidity risk.
The table contains the cash flows from derivatives with positive fair values and from derivatives with negative fair values to
have a complete overview of the financial derivatives related cash flows. The amounts are gross and undiscounted.
Financial derivatives cash flow
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Total
2018
Inflow 3,157 42 38 22 56 3,315
Outflow (3,181) (41) (39) (22) (55) (3,338)
2019
Inflow 1,690 38 37 56 19 1,840
Outflow (1,688) (38) (37) (58) (19) (1,840)
Market risk
Market risk can be subdivided into interest rate risk, currency risk and price risk.
Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that adverse movements of interest rates lead to high costs on interest-bearing debt or assets,
which neg ativ
ely impact the company's capability to honor its commitments. DSM's interest rate risk policy is aimed at
minimizing the interest rate risks associated with the financing of the company and thus at the same time optimizing the net
interest costs. This policy translates into a certain desired profile of fixed-interest and floating-interest positions, including
cash and cash equivalents, with the floating-interest position not exceeding 60% of net debt.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 210 www.dsm.comConsolidated financia l  statements - Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
At 31 December 2019, there was a CNY 255 million credit facility held by DSM Inner Mongolia Rainbow, based on flo ating  rate
SHIBOR (2018: same).
There were no outstanding fixed-floating interest rate swaps (end of 2018 none).
The following analysis of the sensitivity of borrowings, assets and related financial derivatives to interest rate movements
assumes an instantaneous 1% change in interest rates for all maturities from their level on 31 December 2019, with all other
variables held constant. A 1% reduction in interest rates would result in a € 8 million pre-tax loss in the income statement
and equity on the basis of the composition of financial instruments on 31 December 2019, as floating-rate borrowings are
more than compensated for by floating-rate assets (mainly cash). The opposite applies in the case of a 1% increase in interest
rates. The sensitivity of financial instruments with a floating interest rate on 31 December 2019 to changes in interest rates is
set out in the following table:
Sensitivity to change in interest rate
2019 2018
Carrying
amountSensitivity Carrying
amountSensitivity
+1% (1%) +1% (1%)
Loans to associates and joint ventures 3 - - 26 - -
Current investments 688 7 (7) 1,277 13 (13)
Cash and cash equivalents 800 8 (8) 1,281 13 (13)
Short-term borrowings (189) (2) 2 (380) (1) 1
Long-term borrowings (2,464) (2) 2 (2,272) - -
Currency risk
Currency risk is the risk that adverse movements of foreign currencies negatively impact the results of operations and the
financial
 condition of the company, for example due to losses on assets or liabilities in foreign currencies. It is DSM's policy
to hedge 100% of the currency risks resulting from sales and purchases at the moment of recognition of the receivables and
payables. This is realized by transferring at spot rates the respective exposures to the group, which are, consequently (on a
netted basis), hedged externally. In addition, operating companies may — under strict conditions — opt for hedging currency
risks from firm commitments and forecast transactions. The currencies giving rise to these risks are primarily USD, CHF, GBP
and JPY. The risks arising from currency exposures are regularly reviewed and hedged when appropriate. DSM uses currency
forward contracts, spot contracts, and average-rate currency options to hedge the exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange
rates. At year-end, these instruments had remaining maturities of less than one year. For the hedging of currency risks from
firm commitments and forecast transaction cash flows, hedge accounting is applied. Hedge accounting is not applied for
hedges of recognized trade receivables and trade payables hedged with short-term derivatives.
To hedge intercompany loans, receivables and payables denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of
the subsidiaries, DSM uses currency swaps or forward contracts.
The following analysis of the sensitivity of net borrowings and derivative financial instruments to currency movements against
the euro assumes a 10% change in all foreign currency rates against the euro from their level on 31 December 2019, with all
other variables held constant. A +10% change indicates a strengthening of the foreign currencies against the euro. A -10%
change represents a weakening of the foreign currencies against the euro.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 211 www.dsm.comSensitivity to change in exchange rate
2019 2018
Carrying
amountSensitivity Carrying
amountSensitivity
+10% (10%) +10% (10%)
Loans to associates and joint ventures 3 - - 26 - -
Current investments 688 1 (1) 1,277 1 (1)
Cash and cash equivalents 800 37 (37) 1,281 26 (26)
Short-term borrowings (140) (4) 4 (380) (7) 7
Long-term borrowings (2,277) (3) 3 (2,272) (1) 1
Lease liabilities (236) (17) 17 - - -
Currency forward contracts (8) 23 (23) 1 35 (35)
Currency forwards related to net investments in
for
eign entities1(1) (9) 9 (5) (42) 42
Average-rate forwards used for economic hedging2(2) (38) 38 (22) (68) 68
Other derivatives 26 3 (3) 7 1 (1)
1 Fair-value change reported in Translation reserve.
2F
air-value change reported in Hedging reserve.
Sensitivity chang es  on these positions will generally be recognized in profit or loss or in the translation reserve in equity, with
the exception of the instruments for which cash flow hedge accounting or net-investment hedge accounting is applied.
In case of a strengthening or weakening of the euro against USD, CHF and CNY (being the key currencies), this would affect
the translation of financial instruments denominated in these currencies, assuming all other variables being constant.
Profit or loss Equity
Strengthening Weakening Strengthening Weakening
EUR
USD (10% movement) (126) 126 (247) 247
CHF (10% movement) 24 (24) (264) 264
CNY (10% movement) (24) 24 (63) 63
Price risk
Financia
l instruments that are subject to changes in stock
exchange prices or indexes are subject to a price risk. At
year-end 2019, price risks related to investments in
securities were limited.
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that a (commercial or financial)
c
ounterparty may not be able to honor a financial
commitment according to the contractual agreement with
DSM. The company manages the credit risk to which it is
exposed by applying credit limits per institution and by
dealing exclusively with institutions that have a high credit
rating.
At the balance sheet date, there were no significant
concentrations of credit risks.In line with IFRS 9 standard 'Financial Instruments', the
estimation of the va
lue adjustment for doubtful accounts
receivable is now based on an expected credit loss (ECL)
model. DSM uses an allowance matrix to measure the ECL
for trade receivables. The loss rates depend among other
things on the specified aging categories and are based on
historical write-off percentages, taking market
developments into account.
The ECL is based on the allocation of a credit risk grade
which is based on data that is determined to be predictive
of the risk of loss (including but not limited to external
ratings, audited financial statements, management
accounts and cash flow projections and available press
information about customers) and applying experienced
credit judgement. Credit risk grades are defined using
qualitative and quantitative factors that are indicative of
the risk of default and are aligned to external credit rating
definitions from Moody's.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 212 www.dsm.comConsolidated financia l  statements - Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
The l oss allowance on non-current financial assets that has
been t
aken into consideration at the end of 2019 was
€ 1 million.
With regard to treasury activities (for example cash, cash
equivalents and financial derivatives held with banks or
financial institutions) it is ensured that financial
transactions are only concluded with counterparties that
have at least a Moody's credit rating of A3 for long-term
instruments. At business group level, outstanding
receivables are continuously monitored by management.
Appropriate allowances are made for any credit risks that
have been identified in line with the expected credit loss
policy.
The table below provides information about the credit risk
exposure per aging category and the ECL for trade accounts
receivable of € 17 million at 31 December 2019, see Note 13
'Current receivables'.
Weighted
av
erage
loss rateGross
carrying
amountLoss
Allow
ance
Neither past due nor
impair
ed 0.1% 1,055 (1)
1–29 days overdue 0.3% 199 (1)
30–89 days overdue 2.3% 77 (2)
90 da ys or more overdue 60.5% 23 (14)
Total 1,354 (17)
The changes in the loss allowance for trade accounts
rec
eivable are as follows:
2019 2018
Balance at 1 January (35) (21)
Net remeasurement of loss
all
owance 14 (19)
Deductions 4 5
Balance at 31 December (17) (35)
The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by
the c arrying
 amounts of financial assets that are recognized
in the balance sheet, including derivative financial
instruments. DSM has International Swaps and Derivatives
Association (ISDA) agreements in place with its financial
counterparties that allow for the netting of exposures in
case of a default of either party. No significant agreementsor financia l instruments were available at the reporting date
that woul
d reduce the maximum exposure to credit risk.
Exposure to credit risk related to derivatives
2019 2018
Receivables from derivatives 40 18
Liabilities from derivatives (19) (36)
Net amount 21 (18)
Information about financial  assets is presented in Note 10
'Associates and joint arrangements', Note 11 'Other financial
assets', Note 13 'Current receivables', Note 14 'Current
investments', Note 15 'Cash and cash equivalents' and Note
23 'Financial instruments and risks'. Information about
material impairments is presented in Note 2 'Alternative
performance measures'.
DSM's policy is to grant corporate guarantees for credit
support of subsidiaries and associates, to get access to
credit facilities which are necessary for their operating
working capital needs and which cannot be funded by the
corporate cash pools and/or for bank guarantees needed
for local governmental requirements. Information on
guarantees is presented in Note 22 'Contingent liabilities
and other financial obligations'.
Hedge accounting
DSM uses derivative financial  instruments to manage
financial risks relating to business operations and does not
enter into speculative derivative positions. The purpose of
cash flow hedges is to minimize the risk of volatility of future
cash flows. These may result from a recognized asset or
liability or a forecast transaction that is considered highly
probable (firm commitment). The hedge ratio is dependent
on the risk analysis related to the specific cash flow, and
can vary from 50 to 100%. Changes in fair value are
recognized in Other comprehensive income (Hedging
reserve), and material ineffectiveness (mainly as a result
of changes in timing of the hedged transactions) will be
recognized in the income statement. As soon as the forecast
transaction is realized (the underlying hedged item
materializes), the amount recognized in the Other
comprehensive income will be reclassified to the income
statement. In case the hedged future transaction is a non-
financial asset or liability, the gain or loss recognized in
Other comprehensive income will be included in the cost
of acquisition of the asset or liability.
The purpose of a hedge of a net investment is to reduce
the foreign currency risk of an investment in a company
whose functional currency is not the euro. Changes in fair
value are recognized in Other comprehensive income
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 213 www.dsm.com(Translation reserve), and material ineffectiveness will be
rec
ognized in the income statement. The amount
recognized in the Other comprehensive income will be
reclassified to the income statement, upon divestment of
the respective foreign subsidiary.
The purpose of a fair value hedge is to hedge the fair value
of assets or liabilities reflected on the balance sheet.
Changes of fair value in hedging instruments, as well as
hedged items, will be recognized in the income statement.
Cash flow hedges
In
 2019, DSM hedged USD 712 million (2018: USD 654 million)
of
 its 2020 projected net cash flow in USD against the EUR by
means of average-rate currency forward contracts at an
average exchange rate of USD 1.15 per EUR for the four
quarters of 2020. Each quarter, the relevant hedges for that
quarter will be settled and recognized in the income
statement. In 2019, DSM also hedged JPY 7,453 million (2018:
JPY 6,550 million) of its 2020 projected net cash flow in JPY
against the EUR by means of average-rate currency forward
contracts at an average exchange rate of JPY 122 per EUR forthe four quarters of 2020. DSM also hedged the projected
CHF oblig
ations against the EUR, namely CHF 304 million at
an average exchange rate of CHF 1.11 per EUR. These hedges
have fixed the exchange rate for part of the USD and JPY
receipts and CHF payments in 2020. Cash flow hedge
accounting is applied for these hedges. As a result of similar
hedges concluded in 2018 for the year 2019, € 43 million
negative (2018: € 1 million positive) was recognized in the
2019 operating profit of the segments involved in
accordance with the realization of the expected cash flows.
There was no material ineffectiveness in relation to these
hedges.
Net investment hedges
The partial hedging of the currency risk associated with
the transl
ation of DSM's CHF-denominated investments was
continued for an amount of CHF 100 million
(2018: CHF 474 million). There was no material
ineffectiveness in relation to these hedges.
Fair value hedges
There were no fair value hedges.
Cash flow hedg es Net investment hedges
Foreign currency riskForeign e xchange – denominated
debt (CHF c
urrency)
Inventory
purcha
ses Other1Assets Liabilities
2018
Nominal amount hedged item 30 359 - 416
Carrying amount assets - - - -
Carrying amount liabilities 6 22 - 5
Line item balance sheetFinancial
deriv ativ
esFinancial
deriv ativ
esFinancial
deriv ativ
esFinancial
deriv ativ
es
Change in the value of the hedging instrument (16) (34) - (5)
Costs of hedging recognized in OCI (10) (33) - (5)
Reclassified fr om hedging r eserve to income statement (6) (1) - -
Line item income statement Cost of sales Sales Finex2Finex2
2019
Nominal amount hedged item 31 406 - 92
Carrying amount assets - - - -
Carrying amount liabilities 1 2 - 1
Line item balance sheetFinancial
deriv ativ
esFinancial
deriv ativ
esFinancial
deriv ativ
esFinancial
deriv ativ
es
Change in the value of the hedging instrument 5 20 - 4
Costs of hedging recognized in OCI 5 (23) - 6
Reclassified fr om hedging r eserve to income statement (1) 43 - -
Line item income statement Cost of sales Sales Finex2Finex2
1 Forward contracts, sales, receivables and borrowings.
2F
inancial income and expense.
For movements in Hedging or Translation reserve, see also Note 16 'Equity'.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 214 www.dsm.comConsolidated financia l  statements - Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
Fair value of financia l  instruments
The following methods and assumptions were used to determine the fair value of financial instruments: cash, current
investments, current receivables, current borrowings (excluding current portion of long-term instruments) and other current
liabilities are stated at carrying amount, which approximates fair value in view of the short maturity of these instruments.
The fair value of derivatives and long-term instruments are based on calculations, quoted market prices or quotes obtained
from intermediaries.
The portfolio of financial derivatives consists of average-rate forward contracts that are valued against average foreign
exchange forward rates obtained from Bloomberg and other derivatives that are valued using a discounted cash flow model,
applicable market yield curves and foreign exchange spot rates. Inputs for the fair value calculations represent observable
market data that are obtained from external sources that are deemed to be independent and reliable.
DSM uses the following hierarchy for determining the fair value of financial instruments:
- Level 1: quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
- Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs that have a significant effect on the fair value are observable, either directly
or indirectly
- Level 3: techniques that use inputs that have a significant effect on the fair value that are not based on observable market
data
The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities, including their
levels in the fair value hierarchy.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 215 www.dsm.comFair value of financia l  instruments
Carrying amount Fair Value
Amort.
CostFair
va
lue
hedging
instr. FVTPL FVOCI Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Assets 2018
Non-current financia l  derivatives - 1 13 - 14 - 14 - 14
Other participating interests - - - 164 164 63 33 68 164
Non-current loans to associates and JVs 2 - - - 2 - 2 - 2
Other non-current receivables 88 - - - 88 - - 88 88
Other non-current deferred items 9 - - - 9 - - 9 9
Trade receivables 1,575 - - - 1,575 - - 1,575 1,575
Current loans to associates and JVs 24 - - - 24 - 26 - 26
Other current receivables 80 - - - 80 - - 80 80
Current financia l  derivatives - 21 - - 21 - 21 - 21
Current investments 1,277 - - - 1,277 - - 1,277 1,277
Cash and cash equivalents 941 - 340 - 1,281 340 - 941 1,281
Liabilities 2018
Non-current borrowings (2,272) - - - (2,272) (2,321) - - (2,321)
Non-current financia l  derivatives - (3) - - (3) - (3) - (3)
Other non-current liabilities (197) - - - (197) (117) - (80) (197)
Current borrowings (380) - - - (380) (384) - - (384)
Current financia l  derivatives - (51) - - (51) - (51) - (51)
Trade payables (1,430) - - - (1,430) - - (1,430) (1,430)
Other current liabilities (527) - - - (527) - - (527) (527)
Assets 2019
Non-current financia l  derivatives - - 27 - 27 - 27 - 27
Other participating interests - - - 150 150 44 40 66 150
Non-current loans to associates and JVs 3 - - - 3 - 3 - 3
Other non-current receivables 105 - - - 105 - - 105 105
Other non-current deferred items 7 - - - 7 - - 7 7
Trade receivables 1,592 - - - 1,592 - - 1,592 1,592
Other current receivables 45 - - - 45 - 45 45
Current financia l  derivatives 19 - - 19 - 19 - 19
Current investments 688 - - - 688 - - 688 688
Cash and cash equivalents 755 - 45 - 800 45 - 755 800
Liabilities 2019
Non-current borrowings (2,464) - - - (2,464) (2,397) - (187) (2,584)
Non-current financia l  derivatives - (7) - - (7) - (7) - (7)
Other non-current liabilities (145) - - - (145) (126) - (19) (145)
Current borrowings (189) - - - (189) (140) - (49) (189)
Current financia l  derivatives - (18) - - (18) - (18) - (18)
Trade payables (1,345) - - - (1,345) - - (1,345) (1,345)
Other current liabilities (478) - - - (478) - - (478) (478)
During the year there were no material transfers between individual levels of the fair value hierarchy.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 216 www.dsm.comConsolidated financia l  statements - Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
Notional value of derivative financia l  instruments
2019 2018
Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total
Cross-currency interest rate swaps (200) (163) (363) (157) (195) (352)
Forward exchange contracts, currency options,
curr
ency swaps - (1,629) (1,629) - (2,986) (2,986)
Other derivatives 27 (31) (4) 13 (30) (17)
Total (173) (1,823) (1,996) (144) (3,211) (3,355)
For interest rate swaps, the notional value is the principal
on which the sw
ap agreement is based. For cross-currency
interest rate swaps, forward exchange contracts, currency
options and currency swaps, the notional value is the
hedged foreign exchange amount converted into euros.
The notional value of the Other derivatives is the hedged
procurement cost translated into euros.
24 Post-employment benefits
The group operates a number of defined benefit pl ans and
defined contribution plans throughout the world, the assets
of which are generally held in separately administered
funds. The pension plans are generally funded by payments
from employees and from the relevant group companies.
The group also provides certain additional healthcare
benefits to retired employees in the US.
Post-employment benefits relate to obligations that will be
settled in the future and require assumptions to project
benefit obligations. Post-employment benefit accounting is
intended to reflect the recognition of post-employment
benefits over the employee's approximate service period,
based on the terms of the plans and the investment and
funding. The accounting requires management to make
assumptions regarding variables such as discount rate,
future salary increases, life expectancy, and future
healthcare costs. Management consults with external
actuaries regarding these assumptions at least annually for
significant plans.
Changes in these key assumptions can have a significant
impact on the projected defined benefit obligations,
funding requirements and periodic costs incurred.
The charges for pension costs recognized in the income
statement (Note 5) relate to the following:Pension costs
2019 2018
Defined benefit plans:
- Current service costs
pension plans 29 27
- Other post-employment
benefits 2 2
Defined contribution plans 85 81
Total pension costs included
in emplo
yee benefit costs 116 110
- Pension costs included in
Other operating (inc
ome) /
expense (16) (10)
Total in operating profit 100 100
Pension costs included in
financial
 income and expense 7 6
Total 107 106
Of which:
-Defined contribution pl ans 85 81
-Defined benefit plans 22 25
For 2020, costs for the defined benefit pl ans r elating to
pensions are expected to be € 43 million
(2019: € 38 million).
Changes in Employee benefit net liabilities recognized in
the balance sheet are shown in the following overview:
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 217 www.dsm.comEmployee benefit net liabilities
2019 2018
Balance at 1 January 458 394
Changes:
- Balance of actuarial
(gains)/l
osses 24 77
- Employee benefit c osts 21 24
- Contributions by employer (54) (44)
- Acquisitions and disposals 1 -
- Exchange differences 4 4
- Transfers - 3
Total changes (4) 64
Balance at 31 December 454 458
The Employee benefit net liabilities of € 4 54 million
(2018: € 458 million) consist of € 434 million related to
pensions (2018: € 438 million), € 6 million related to
healthcare and other costs (2018: € 6 million) and
€ 14 million related to other post-employment benefits
(2018: € 14 million).
Pensions
The DSM group companies have various pension plans,
which are g
eared to the local regulations and practices in
the countries in which they operate. As these plans are
designed to comply with the statutory framework, tax
legislation, local customs and economic situation of the
countries concerned, it follows that the nature of the plans
varies from country to country. The plans are based on local
legal and contractual obligations.
DSM's current policy is to offer defined contribution
retirement benefit plans to new employees wherever
possible. However, DSM still has a (small) number of defined
benefit pension and healthcare schemes from the past or
in countries where legislation does not allow us to offer a
defined contribution scheme. Generally, these schemes
have been funded through external trusts or foundations,
where DSM faces the potential risk of funding shortfalls.
The most significant defined benefit schemes are:
- Pension Plan at DSM Nutritional Products AG in
Switzerland (DNP AG)
- DSM UK Pension Scheme in the UK
- Consolidated Pension Plan of DSM North America, Inc.
in the US
- Pension Plan at DSM Nutritional Products GmbH in
Germany (DNP GmbH)
For each plan, the following characteristics are relevant:DNP AG Pension Plan in Switzerland
The DNP AG P ension P
lan is a typical Swiss Cash Balance
plan. For accounting purposes, this plan is qualified as a
defined benefit plan. It is a contribution-based plan. There
is no promise of indexation for on-going pensions. The
Swiss state minimal requirements for occupational benefit
plans have however to be respected; the Minimum
Guaranteed Interest Return on the cash balance accounts
for 2019 was 1.00% (2018: 1.00%) for the mandatory portion
(BVG/LPP). There is also a minimal conversion rate
applicable. The weighted average duration of the defined
benefit obligation is 16.4 years (2018: 12.4 years) which could
be seen as an indication of the maturity profile of the
scheme.
The pension plan is managed and controlled by a DSM
company pension fund. The Board of Trustees consists of
representatives of the employer and the employees who
have an independent role. In 2019, the Trustees agreed a
package of plan changes. The financial result of these
changes is recognized in 2019. The plan assets are
collectively invested (no individual investment choice).
The current (estimated) funding level, based on local
standards, is 119% (2018: 108%), which is above the legally
required minimum funding level but below the long-term
buffer target. 
DSM UK Pension Scheme
The DSM UK Pension Scheme was closed as of 30 September
20
16 for all pension accruals. An unconditional indexation
policy is applicable for the vested pension rights. The
weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation
is 19.4 years (2018: 19.4 years), which could be seen as an
indication of the maturity profile of the scheme.
The pension plan is managed and controlled by a DSM
company pension fund. The Board of Trustees consists of
representatives of the employer and the employees who
have an independent role. The 2018 valuation was finalized
in 2019 and as a result DSM will continue to pay an annual
recovery contribution of GBP 0.9 million into the plan. There
are two company guarantees in place: (1) a guarantee from
DNP AG (capped at GBP 14 million) related to the 2012
valuation, and (2) a guarantee from Royal DSM (capped at
GBP 11 million) related to arrangements with respect to
former UK divestments. There is a long-term de-risking
strategy for the DSM UK Pension Scheme in place with the
objective to align the company's intentions and the Trustees
responsibility with respect to this plan. The current funding
level, based on local standards, is estimated at 99% (2018:
98%).
Consolidated Plan in the US
The Consolidated Plan in the US has been closed to new
entrants sinc
e 2014. As of 31 December 2016, the plan was
closed for pension accrual of the non-unionized employees.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 218 www.dsm.comConsolidated financia l  statements - Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
New accrual is only applicable for a small group of
unioniz ed 
employees. There is no indexation applicable for
the vested pension rights. The weighted average duration
of the defined obligations is 12.1 years (2018: 11.8 years),
which could be seen as an indication of the maturity profile
of the scheme.
The pension plan is managed and controlled by a DSM
company pension fund. The Board of Trustees consists of
representatives of the employer and the employees, who
have an independent role.
In 2018, an ALM study was performed which will lead to an
adjustment of the investment strategy that was
implemented in the course of 2019. The internal funding
policy of this plan is based on IFRS valuation. This implies
a stricter funding policy than the minimum requirements
on local funding. The current IFRS funding level is 99% (2018:
95%), whereas the funding level on local standards (Pension
Protection Act) is estimated at 124% (2018: 109%). The
minimum required funding level on local standards is 80%
on the basis of this Act.
DNP GmbH Pension Plan in Germany
The DNP GmbH Pension Plan in Germany has been closed
to 
new entrants as of 31 December 2008. The accrual is still
applicable for employees who have been participating in
the plan since 2008. The pension plan is a final-pay pension
plan (averaged over the last 12 months prior to retirement)
and service-related benefit. In 2019, DSM added a lump-sum
pay-out option to the plan. The financial result of this
change is recognized in 2019. The liability is on the balance
sheet of DSM Nutritional Products GmbH. No assets are
allocated to this liability. All reimbursements will be paid
out by the local company. The weighted average duration
of the defined benefit obligation is 15.2 years (2018: 15.5
years),  which  could  be seen  as an indication of the maturity
profile of the scheme.
The most important unfunded plans are in Germany, for
which the associated liability amounts to € 344 million
(2018: € 308 million).
The changes in the present value of the defined benefit
obligations and in the fair value of plan assets of the major
plans are listed below:Present value of defined benefit obligations
2019 2018
Balance at 1 January 1,808 1,675
Changes:
- Service costs 33 27
- Interest costs 29 25
- Contributions 15 13
- Actuarial (gains)/losses 216 (17)
- Past service costs (16) (10)
- Exchange differences 59 47
- Disbursements (65) (45)
- New pension plan
Switz erl
and - 91
- Other - 2
Balance at 31 December 2,079 1,808
Fair value of plan assets
2019 2018
Balance at 1 January 1,370 1,301
Changes:
- Interest income on plan
as
sets 23 19
- Actuarial gains/(losses) 192 (94)
Actual return on plan assets 215 (75)
- Contributions by employer 42 30
- Contributions by
emplo
yees 14 13
- Disbursement (52) (33)
- Exchange differences 55 43
- New pension plan
Switzerl
and - 91
Balance at 31 December 1,644 1,370
The fair value of the plan asset consists of 97% of quoted
as
sets (2018: 98%).
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 219 www.dsm.comThe actuarial gains/losses as included in the previous
tabl
es can be specified as follows:
Remeasurement effects as included in Other
compr
ehensive income
2019 2018
Defined benefit oblig ation
ma
jor pension plans
Actuarial (gain)/loss due to
experienc
e 36 35
Actuarial (gain)/loss due to
demogr aphic a
ssumption (4) -
Actuarial (gain)/loss due to
financia l
 assumption changes 184 (52)
Total 216 (17)
Plan assets major pension
plans
Return on plan assets
(gre
ater)/less than discount
rate 192 (94)
Total 192 (94)
Actuarial (gain)/loss major
plans 24 77
Actuarial (gain)/loss other
plans - -
Total actuarial (gain)/loss 24 77
The major categories of pension-plan assets as a
perc
entage of total plan assets are as follows:
Pension-plan assets by category
2019 2018
Bonds 45% 47%
Equities 30% 29%
Property funds 17% 18%
Other 8% 6%
The pension-plan assets include neither ordinary DSM
shares nor pr
operty occupied by DSM.The amounts r ec ognized of these plans in the balance sheet
are as follows:
Net assets/liabilities
2019 2018
Major plans:
Present value of funded
oblig ations (1,724) (1,490)
Fair value of plan assets 1,644 1,370
Net (80) (120)
Present value of unfunded
oblig ations (354) (318)
Net (liabilities) / assets major
plans (434) (438)
Net (liabilities) / assets other
plans (20) (20)
Total net (liabilities) assets (454) (458)
Of which:
- Liabilities (Employee
benefit liabilities) (456) (459)
- Assets (Prepaid pension
costs) 2 1
In 2020, DSM is expected to contribute € 36 million (actual
2019: € 
43 million) to its major defined benefit plans.
The main actuarial assumptions for the year (weighted
averages) are:
Actuarial assumptions for major plans outside the
Netherlands
2019 2018
Discount rate 0.92% 1.61%
Price inflation 1.44% 1.68%
Salary increase 2.08% 2.31%
Pension increase 0.80-2.25% 0.85-2.10%
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 220 www.dsm.comConsolidated financia l  statements - Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
Year-end amounts for the current and previous periods are as follows:
Major defined benefit pl ans per y ear
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Defined benefit oblig ations (2,079) (1,808) (1,675) (1,806) (1,745)
Plan assets 1,644 1,370 1,301 1,297 1,224
Funded status of asset/(liability) (435) (438) (374) (509) (521)
Experience adjustments on plan assets, gain/(loss) 192 (94) 115 60 (22)
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities, gain/(loss) (36) (35) (24) 15 (39)
Gain/(loss) on liabilities due to changes in assumptions (180) 52 (21) (80) (4)
Sensitivities of significant  actuarial assumptions
The discount rate, the future increase in wages and salaries and the pension increase rate were identified as significant
actuarial assumptions. The following impacts on the defined benefit obligation are to be expected:
- A 0.25% increase/decrease in the discount rate would lead to a decrease/increase of 3.8% (2018: 3.2%) in the defined benefit
obligation
- A 0.25% increase/decrease in the expected increase in salaries/wages would lead to an increase/decrease of 0.3% (2018:
0.3%) in the defined benefit obligation
- A 0.25% increase/decrease in the expected rate of pension increase would lead to an increase/decrease of less than 1.0%
(2018: 1.0%) in the defined benefit obligation
The sensitivity analysis is based on realistically possible changes as at the end of the reporting year. Each change in a
significant actuarial assumption was analyzed separately as part of the test. Interdependencies were not taken into account.
Healthcare and other costs
In some countries, particularly the US, group companies provide retired employees and their surviving dependents with post-
empl
oyment benefits other than pensions, mainly allowances for healthcare expenses and life-insurance premiums. Some
of these are unfunded; in these cases, approved expense claims are reimbursed out of the financial resources of the group
companies concerned. These plans are not sufficiently material to warrant the individual disclosures required by IAS 19.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 221 www.dsm.com25 Net debt
The de
velopment of the components of net debt is as follows:
Cash and
ca
sh
equivalentsCurrent
inv
est-
mentsNon-
curr
ent
borrowingsCurrent
borrowing
sCredit
institutionsDerivatives Total
Balance at 1 January 2018 899 954 (2,551) (8) (69) 33 (742)
Change from operating activities 1,391 - (1) - - 6 1,396
Change from investing activities (605) 323 - (10) 3 1 (288)
Reclassification fr om non-c urrent to current - - 304 (304) - - -
Transfers 22 - (24) 12 (9) (1) -
Dividend (225) - - - - - (225)
Interest (59) - - - - - (59)
Proceeds from reissued shares 97 - - - - - 97
Repurchase of shares (236) - - - - - (236)
Derivatives - - - - - (58) (58)
Change from financing activities (401) - 280 (292) (9) (59) (481)
Exchange differences (3) - - 2 3 - 2
Total changes 382 323 279 (300) (3) (52) 629
Balance at 31 December 2018 1,281 1,277 (2,272) (308) (72) (19) (113)
Change from operating activities 1,385 - (8) - - 28 1,405
Change from investing activities (525) (589) (27) - (2) 3 (1,140)
Reclassification fr om non-c urrent to current - - 50 (50) - - -
Opening balance lease liabilities (adoption) - - (215) - - - (215)
Transfers (290) - 46 301 (57) - -
Dividend (291) - - - - - (291)
Interest (62) - - - - 5 (57)
Proceeds from reissued shares 180 - - - - - 180
New/unwinding leases - - (39) - - - (39)
Repurchase of shares (869) - - - - - (869)
Derivatives - - - - - (6) (6)
Other - - 2 - - - 2
Change from financing activities (1,332) - (156) 251 (57) (1) (1,295)
Exchange differences (9) (1) (1) 10 (1)
Total changes (481) (589) (192) 251 (60) 40 (1,031)
Balance at 31 December 2019 800 688 (2,464) (57) (132) 21 (1,144)
In 2019, the gearing (net debt / equity plus net debt) was 12.7% (in 2018: 1.4%). Due to the introduction of IFRS 16, the gearing
incre
ased by 2.6% (from 1.4% to 4.0%).
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 222 www.dsm.comConsolidated financia l  statements - Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
26 Notes to the cash flow statement
The c
ash flow statement provides an explanation of the changes in cash and cash equivalents. It is prepared on the basis
of a comparison of the balance sheets at 1 January and 31 December. Changes that do not involve cash flows, such as changes
in exchange rates, amortization, depreciation, impairment losses and transfers to other balance sheet items, are eliminated.
Changes in working capital due to the acquisition or disposal of consolidated companies are included under Investing
activities.
Most of the changes in the cash flow statement can be traced back to the detailed statements of changes for the balance
sheet items concerned. For those balance sheet items for which no detailed statement of changes is included, the table below
shows the link between the change according to the balance sheet and the change according to the cash flow statement:
Change in operating working capital
2019 2018
Operating working capital
Balance at 1 January 2,138 1,938
Balance at 31 December 2,266 2,138
Balance sheet change 128 200
Adjustments:
- Exchange differences (52) (34)
- Changes in consolidation (including acquisitions and disposals) (67) 34
- Transfers/non-cash value adjustments (61) 46
Total change in operating working capital according to the cash flow st at ement (52) 246
In 2019, the operating working capital was € 2,266 million (2018: € 2,138 million), which amounts to 26.3% of annualized fourth
quarter net s
ales (2018: 24.2%).
Due to the introduction of IFRS 16, operating lease cash flows amounting to -€ 53 million that were presented as operating
cash flows under IAS 17 are now reported as financing cash flows.
27 Share-based compensation
The DSM Stock Incentive Plan provides rules for the grant of Restricted Share Units (RSU) and Performance Share Units (PSU),
which 
have been granted as of 2017 to executives. The grant date of these management share units is the last trading day at
the Amsterdam Stock Exchange in March.
The number of management share units to be granted is based on the face value of the DSM share. The grant value (depending
on job level) to eligible employees will be divided by the share price at the beginning of the first performance year. As a result,
the number of share units to be granted annually will fluctuate with the share price development. The grant concerns the
maximum number of Restricted Share Units (RSUs) and Performance Share Units (PSUs) that may vest.
RSUs and PSUs are subject to a vesting period of 3 years starting at the grant date. Vesting of RSUs is subject to continued
employment until the vesting date ('time vesting'); vesting of PSUs is additionally subject to the achievement of predetermined
performance goals at the end of the vesting period. The PSUs granted in 2019 are subject to the realization of four equally
weighted goals:
- Relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance versus a peer group
- Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) growth
- Energy Efficiency Improvement (EEI)
- Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GHGE) Efficiency Improvement
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 223 www.dsm.comNon-vested shar e  units will be forfeited. If employment is terminated prior to the vesting date, specific rules regarding vesting
and forfeitures apply.
Prior to 2017, stock options were granted to eligible staff. Stock options have a term of 8 years and are subject to a vesting
period of 3 years. Like RSUs, non-performance related stock options are subject to 'time vesting', whereas the vesting of
performance related stock options depends on the realization of the same predefined performance goals as applicable to
PSUs. Vested stock options can be exercised during a period of 5 years starting as per vesting date, subject to the plan rules.
Unvested stock options will be forfeited. If employment is terminated prior to the vesting date, specific rules regarding vesting
and forfeitures apply.
Share units and stock options are settled by delivery of DSM shares.
Overview of stock options 1
Year of grant Outstanding
at 31
 Dec. 2018In 2019 Outstanding
at 31
 Dec. 2019Fair value on
grant dat
e (€)Exercise
price (€)Expiry date
Exercised Average
price (€)Forfeited/
expir
ed
2011 112,363 (112,363) 93.67 - - 9.60 46.20 2 May 2019
2012 120,400 (105,025) 104.99 - 15,375 6.88 40.90 15 May 2020
2013 283,525 (130,175) 98.57 - 153,350 9.23 48.91 7 May 2021
2014 438,330 (223,050) 101.78 - 215,280 10.66 52.00 9 May 2022
2015 1,167,737 (643,512) 98.61 - 524,225 9.89 50.98 5 May 2023
2016 2,127,625 (1,344,475) 103.47 (49,000) 734,150 9.36 52.57 3 May 2024
2019 Total 4,249,980 (2,558,600) 101.48 (49,000) 1,642,380
Of which
vest
ed 2,250,605 1,642,380
at 31 Dec. 2017 at 31 Dec. 2018
2018 Total 6,211,236 (1,620,206) 87.17 (341,050) 4,249,980
Of which
vest
ed 1,711,536 2,250,605
1 This table also forms part of the 'Remuneration report' on page 130 as included in the Supervisory Board Report.
Overview of management share units1
Year of issue Outstanding at
31 Dec
. 2018In 2019 Outstanding at
31 Dec
. 2019Share price at
date
 of grant (€)Expiry date
Granted Vested Forfeited/
expir
ed2
2017 377,730 - (27,417) (25,313) 325,000 67.33 5 May 2020
2018 274,390 - (16,870) (14,110) 243,410 80.04 31 Mar 2021
2019 - 328,088 (6,462) (4,393) 317,233 97.74 31 Mar 2022
2019 Total 652,120 328,088 (50,749) (43,816) 885,643
at 31 Dec. 2017 at 31 Dec. 2018
2018 Total 440,143 292,270 (28,046) (52,247) 652,120
1 This table also forms part of the 'Remuneration report' on page 130 as included in the Supervisory Board Report.
2R
estricted and Performance Share Units may partly vest upon termination of employment in connection with, for example, divestments, retirement or early retirement.
DSM gr anted  certain  members of senior  management share units based  on Adjusted  EBITDA and ROCE performance measures
set for 2018 and 2019. Settlement in shares takes place after this two-year period. If employment is terminated prior to the
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 224 www.dsm.comConsolidated financia l  statements - Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
settlement date, specific rul es r egarding vesting and forfeitures apply. Under this plan 42,892 shares in total were granted,
of which at the end of 2019 39,539 shares were outstanding and 3,539 were forfeited. The fair value of these shares is determined
based on the market price at the end of the first quarter of 2019, adjusted for loss of dividend.
Certain employees in the Netherlands are entitled to employee stock options, to be granted on the first day on which the DSM
stock is quoted ex-dividend following the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. The opening price of the DSM stock on
that day is the exercise price of such stock options. Employee stock options can immediately be exercised and have a term
of five years.
Overview of stock options for employees1
Year of gr antOutstanding
at 31 Dec
.
2018In 2019 Outstanding
at 31 Dec
.
2019Fair v alue on
gr
ant date
(€)Exercise
price (€)Exercise
period until Granted Exercised Average
price (€)Forfeited/
expir
ed
2014 37,435 - (29,690) 96.16 (7,745) - 5.68 52.00 May 2019
2015 18,950 - (9,860) 100.73 (105) 8,985 4.50 50.98 May 2020
2016 100,285 - (52,405) 101.24 (100) 47,780 4.38 52.57 May 2021
2017 187,370 - (103,060) 101.37 (1,105) 83,205 6.14 67.33 May 2022
2018 440,955 - (252,605) 102.13 (6,780) 181,570 8.50 85.00 May 2023
2019 - 482,600 (162,055) 112.73 (4,275) 316,270 8.88 98.00 May 2024
2019 Total 784,995 482,600 (609,675) 104.43 (20,110) 637,810
2018 Total 553,630 490,820 (240,705) 86.52 (18,750) 784,995
1 This table also forms part of the 'Remuneration report' on page 130 as included in the Supervisory Board Report.
Measurement of fair value
The costs of management share units are measured by reference to the fair value of the DSM share at the date on which
the mana g
ement share units are granted, ex-dividend as the share units do not accumulate dividend during the three-year
vesting period.
The costs of option plans are measured by reference to the fair value of the options at the date on which the options are
granted. The fair value is determined using the Black-Scholes model, taking into account market conditions linked to the price
of the DSM share. Stock-price volatility is determined on the basis of historical volatilities of the DSM share price measured
each month over a period equal to the expected option life. The costs of these options are recognized in the income statement
(Employee benefit costs).
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 225 www.dsm.comAssumptions determining fair value
The f
ollowing assumptions were used to determine the fair
value at grant date:
Plan assumptions
2019 2018
Management shares
Risk-free rate -0.57% -0.44%
Expected share life in years 3 3
Nominal share life in years 3 3
Share price in € 97.74 80.04
Expected dividend in € 6.90 5.55
Fair v alue of share unit granted
in € 90.84 74.49
Employee options
Risk-free rate -0.59% -0.42%
Expected option life in years 2.5 2.5
Nominal option life in years 5 5
Share price in € 98.00 85.00
Exercise price in € 98.00 85.00
Volatility 20.0% 21.0%
Expected dividend 2.35% 2.18%
Fair value of option granted
in € 8.88 8.50
An amount of € 3 4 million is included in the costs for wages
and salaries for share-based compensation (2018:
€ 25 million). The following table specifies the share-based
compensation:
Share-based compensation
2019 2018
Employee stock options 4 4
Management stock options
and share units 22 16
Performance shares 8 5
Total expense 34 2528 Related parties
K
oninklijke DSM N.V. is the group holding company that is
listed on the Euronext Amsterdam stock exchange. The
financial statements of the company are included in the
chapter 'Parent company financial statements'.
In the ordinary course of business, DSM buys and sells
goods and services from/to various related parties in which
DSM has significant influence. Transactions are conducted
under terms and conditions that are equivalent to those
that apply to arm's length transactions.
Transactions and relationships with related parties are
reported in the table below.
Transactions with related parties
Joint ventures Associates
2019 2018 2019 2018
Sales to 1 2 13 6
Purchases from - 7 52 332
Loans to - - 3 26
Receivables from 1 - 42 8
Payables to - - 5 23
Interest from - - - 7
Commitments to - - 4 4
DSM may issue guarantees as credit enhancement of
as
sociates to acquire bank facilities for these associates.
DSM has provided guarantees to third parties for debts of
associates and to a third party (a former associate) for an
amount of € 59 million (2018: € 72 million).
Other related-parties disclosures relate entirely to key
management of DSM, being represented by the company's
Managing Board, Executive Committee and the Supervisory
Board. For further details about their remuneration, see
Note 13 to the 'Parent company financial statements'.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 226 www.dsm.comConsolidated financia l  statements - Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
29 Service fees paid to external auditors
The servic
e fees recognized in the financial statements 2019 for the services of KPMG amounted to € 5.4 million
(2018: € 5.3 million). The amounts per service category are shown in the following table.
Total service fee Of which
KPMG KPMG KPMG NL KPMG NL
2019 2018 2019 2018
Audit of the Group financia l  statements 4.3 4.4 2.8 3.0
Audit of other (statutory) financia l  statements 0.5 0.5 0.1 0.1
Other assurance services 0.6 0.4 0.6 0.4
Total assurance services 5.4 5.3 3.5 3.5
The services rendered by KPMG NL in 2019 in addition to the statutory audit include assurance engagements on non-financial
inf
ormation, on internal controls of DSM Pension Services, government grants and a regulatory filing, as well as agreed-upon
procedures on certain information for the Remuneration Committee of Royal DSM and the pension fund and their external
auditor.
30 Events after the balance sheet date
In February 2020, DSM launched a program in DSM Nutritional Products to increase its agility to drive above-market profitable
gr
owth. By simplifying the operating model and further improving business steering, the program aims to better serve
customers and respond to the differentiated needs of their respective end-markets. At the same time, it creates a more
efficient organization. The new operating model will be enabled by a revised organizational structure. The structure is designed
to support the more focused business priorities, and to operate with more streamlined central business steering. The new
set-up will lead to around 350 redundancies (~3% of total DSM Nutritional Products' workforce and ~1.5% of total DSM's
workforce), mainly in central and at managerial levels, affecting mostly DSM Nutritional Products' global HQ in Switzerland
and its organization in North America.
DSM announced on 21 February 2020 that it has reached agreement to acquire 100% of the shares of Glycom A/S, the world's
leading supplier of Human Milk Oligosaccharides (HMO) for an enterprise value of € 765 million. This transaction represents
an EV/EBITDA multiple of 20.6 based on the 2019 reported EBITDA, and roughly 15 based on the estimated 2021 EBITDA. The
company achieved around € 74 million of sales in 2019 and has around 150 employees. The transaction is expected to close
in Q2 2020.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 227 www.dsm.comParent company financia l
st
atements
Balance sheet at 31 December of Koninklijke DSM N.V. before pr ofit  appropriation
x € million Notes 2019 2018
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 2 428 431
Property, plant and equipment 3 12 13
Financial assets 4 10,747 10,480
Deferred tax assets 5 71 82
Other deferred items 2 2
11,260 11,008
Current assets
Receivables 6 101 123
Cash and cash equivalents 1 -
102 123
Total 11,362 11,131
Shareholders' equity and liabilities
Shareholders' equity 7
Share capital 338 338
Share premium 489 489
Treasury shares (905) (371)
Other reserves 96 (55)
Retained earnings 6,955 6,304
Profit f or the year 758 1,077
7,731 7,782
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 8 2,244 2,243
Other non-current liabilities 8 8
2,252 2,251
Current liabilities
Borrowings 8 - 300
Financial derivatives 1 5
Other current liabilities 9 1,378 793
1,379 1,098
Total 11,362 11,131
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 228 www.dsm.comParent company financia l  statements
Income statement of Koninklijke DSM N.V.
x € million Notes 2019 2018
Other income 1 184 167
Cost of outsourced work and other external costs (88) (88)
Wages and salaries 11 (70) (65)
Social security and pension charges (8) (7)
Amortization of intangible assets and depreciation of Property, plant and
equipment (10) (9)
Total operating expenses (176) (169)
Operating pr ofit 8 (2)
Financial expense 12 (79) (76)
Result before income tax (71) (78)
Income tax 5 23 14
Share of the pr ofit  of subsidiaries 4 800 1,054
Result after income tax 752 990
Share of the pr ofit  of associates and joint ventures 4 - 11
Other results related to associates and joint ventures 4 6 76
Net pr ofit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 7 58 1,077
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 229 www.dsm.comNotes to the parent company financia l  statements
1 Summary of the accounting policies
Unless stated otherwise, all amounts are in € million.
The Par
ent company financial statements are the financial statements of Koninklijke DSM N.V., which have been prepared in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the Netherlands.
The accounting policies used are the same as those used in the consolidated financial statements, in accordance with the
provisions of article 362-8 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. In these separate financial statements, investments in subsidiaries
are accounted for using the net asset value. The balance sheet presentation is aligned with the consolidated financial
statements in order to enhance transparency and facilitate understanding.
The statutory seat of Koninklijke DSM N.V. is Het Overloon 1, Heerlen (Netherlands). A list of DSM participations has been filed
with the Chamber of Commerce (Netherlands) and is available from the company upon request, as well as on the company
website. DSM is registered in the Dutch Commercial Register under number 14022069.
Information on the use of financial instruments and on related risks for the group is provided in the 'Notes to the consolidated
financial statements of Royal DSM'.
Other income consists mainly of the charged corporate overhead and services to the group companies.
The company forms a fiscal unity for corporate income tax purposes together with the group companies in the Netherlands.
Each of the companies recognizes the portion of corporate income tax that the relevant company would owe as an
independent tax payer, taking into account the tax liabilities applicable to the company.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 230 www.dsm.comParent company financia l  statements - Notes to the parent company financial statements
2 Intangible assets
The c
arrying amount of intangible assets mainly comprises goodwill on the acquisition of NeoResins in 2005 (€ 358 million),
Crina in 2006 (€ 8 million) and Pentapharm in 2007 (€ 36 million). For further information on these assets including the
discussion of the related impairment tests, see Note 8 'Intangible assets' in the 'Notes to the consolidated financial statements
of Royal DSM'.
Goodwill Under
constructionOther Total
Balance at 1 January 2018
Cost 399 1 83 483
Amortization and impairment losses - - 50 50
Carrying amount 399 1 33 433
Change in carrying amount
- Capital expenditure - 4 - 4
- Put into operation - (1) 1 -
- Exchange difference 1 - - 1
- Amortization - - (7) (7)
1 3 (6) (2)
Balance at 31 December 2018
Cost 400 4 85 489
Amortization and impairment losses - - 58 58
Carrying amount 400 4 27 431
Change in carrying amount
- Capital expenditure - 3 - 3
- Put into operation - (3) 3 -
- Exchange difference 2 - - 2
- Amortization - - (8) (8)
2 - (5) (3)
Balance at 31 December 2019
Cost 402 4 88 494
Amortization and impairment losses - - (66) (66)
Carrying amount 402 4 22 428
3 Property, plant and equipment
This it
em mainly relates to land and buildings. Capital expenditure in 2019 was € 0 million (2018: € 2 million), while the
depreciation char
ge in 2019 was € 1 million (2018: € 2 million). The historical cost of Property, plant and equipment at
31 December 2019 was € 63 million (2018: € 63 million); accumulated depreciation amounted to € 51 million (2018: € 50 million).
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 231 www.dsm.com4 Financial assets
Subsidiaries Associates and JVs Other
particip
ating
interestsReceivables Total
Share in
equit yLoans Share in
equit yLoans
Balance at 1 January 2018 9,409 - 140 - - 91 9,640
Changes:
- Share in pr ofit 1,054 - 11 - - - 1,065
- Charged to income statement - - - - - (33) (33)
- Dividend received (198) - - - - - (198)
- Capital payments 49 - - - - - 49
- Net actuarial gains/(losses) (66) - - - - - (66)
- Change in Fair value reserve 15 - - - 1 - 16
- Change in Hedging reserve (38) - (2) - - - (40)
- Exchange differences 138 - - - - - 138
- Disposals - - (144) - - - (144)
- Others 44 - (5) - 36 (22) 53
Balance at 31 December 2018 10,407 - - - 37 36 10,480
Changes:
- Share in pr ofit 800 - - - - - 800
- Charged to income statement - - - - - (9) (9)
- Dividend received (877) - - - - - (877)
- Capital payments 254 - - - - - 254
- Net actuarial gains/(losses) (16) - - - - - (16)
- Change in Fair value reserve (19) - - - (1) - (20)
- Change in Hedging reserve 21 - - - - - 21
- Exchange differences 129 - - - - - 129
- Other (13) - - - - (2) (15)
Balance at 31 December 2019 10,686 - - - 36 25 10,747
For movements in 'Associates and joint arrangements', see Note 10 to the 'Consolidated financial  statements'.
Disposals in 2018 relate to the divestment of DSM's share in DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals.
5 Deferred tax assets
This item mainly relates to net operating losses in the Dutch fiscal unity. In 2019, a tax income of € 23 million (2018: tax income
of
 € 14 million) was included and other movements (mainly settlements with group companies and utilization of net operating
losses) of -€ 34 million (2018: -€ 63 million).
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 232 www.dsm.comParent company financia l  statements - Notes to the parent company financial statements
6 Receivables
2019 2018
Receivables from subsidiaries 94 94
Other receivables / deferred
items 7 29
Total 101 123
7  Shareholders' equity
2019 2018
Balance at 1 January 7,782 6,962
Net profit 758 1,077
Exchange differences, net of
income t
ax 125 144
Net actuarial  gains/(losses) on
defined benefit obligations (15) (66)
Dividend (414) (365)
Repurchase of shares (869) (236)
Proceeds from reissue of
ordinary shar
es 324 242
Other changes 40 24
Balance at 31 December 7,731 7,782
For details see the consolidated statement of changes in
Note 16 'E
quity'.
Legal reserve
In Shareholders' equity, an amount of € 162 million (2018:
€ 3
7 million) is included for Translation reserve,
-€ 122 million (2018: -€ 166 million) for Hedging reserve,
€ 5 million (2018: € 21 million) for Fair value reserve and
€ 267 million (2018: € 253 million) for intangible assets
related to product development projects. In addition, a legal
reserve of € 116 million (2018: € 108 million) is recognized for
profits that cannot be distributed and received in the
Netherlands.
Profit appropriation
Ac
cording to article 32 of the Articles of Association of
Koninklijk
e DSM N.V. and with the approval of the
Supervisory Board, every year the Managing Board
determines the portion of the net profit to be appropriated
to the reserves. For the year 2019, the net profit is
€ 758 million (2018: € 1,077 million) and the amount to be
appropriated to the reserves has been established at
€ 333 million (2018: € 665 million). From the subsequentbalance of the net pr ofit  of € 425 million (2018: € 412 million),
dividend is first distributed on the cumulative preference
shares B. At the end of 2019 no cumprefs B were in issue
(same as for 2018). Subsequently, a 3.26% (2018: 3.26%)
dividend is distributed on the cumulative preference shares
A, based on a share price of € 5.29 (2018: € 5.29) per
cumulative preference share A. For 2019, this distribution
amounts  to € 0.17 (2018: € 0.17) per share,  which  is € 8 million
in total. An interim dividend of € 0.06 per cumulative
preference share A having been paid in August 2019, the final
dividend will then amount to € 0.11 per cumulative
preference share A.
The profit remaining after distribution of these dividends
on the cumulative preference shares A of € 750 million (2018:
€ 1,069 million) will be put at the disposal of the Annual
General Meeting of Shareholders in accordance with the
provisions of Article 32, section 5 of the Articles of
Association.
The Managing Board proposes a dividend on ordinary
shares outstanding for the year 2019 of € 2.40 (2018: € 2.30)
per share. With an interim dividend of € 0.77 (2018: € 0.77)
per ordinary share having been paid in August 2019, the final
dividend would then amount to € 1.63 (2018: € 1.53) per
ordinary share.
If the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders makes a
decision in accordance with the proposal, the net profit will
be appropriated as follows:
Profit appropriation
2019 2018
Net pr ofit 758 1,077
Profit appr opriation:
- To be added t o  the reserves 333 665
- Dividend on cumprefs A 8 8
- Interim dividend on
ordinary shar
es 136 135
- Final dividend
distribut abl
e on ordinary
shares 281 269
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 233 www.dsm.com8 Borrowings
2019 2018
Total Of which
curr
entTotal Of which
curr
ent
Debenture loans 2,244 - 2,543 300
Total 2,244 - 2,543 300
At 31 December 2019, there were four debenture loans
(€ 2,2
44 million, maturing in 2022 and from 2024 through
2026).
The repayment schedule for borrowings (excluding
commercial paper) is as follows:
Borrowings by maturity
2019 2018
2019 - 300
2020 - -
2021 - -
2022 and 2023 499 500
2024 through 2026 1,745 1,743
Total 2,244 2,543
In agreements governing loans with a residual amount at
ye
ar-end 2019 of € 2,244 million (31 December 2018:
€ 2,543 million, of which € 300 million was of a current
nature), clauses have been included which restrict the
provision of security. More information on borrowings is
provided in Note 19 to the 'Consolidated financial
statements'.9 Other current liabilities
2019 2018
Liabilities to subsidiaries 1,333 732
Other liabilities 45 61
Total 1,378 793
10 Contingent liabilities
Guar
antee obligations on behalf of affiliated  companies
and third parties amounted to € 502 million (31 December
2018: € 462 million). Koninklijke DSM N.V. has declared in
writing that it accepts several liabilities for debts arising
from acts in law of a number of consolidated companies
(including relating to the fiscal unity for income tax and
VAT). These debts are included in the consolidated balance
sheet.
11 Personnel
The average number of employees working for Koninklijke
DSM N.
V. in 2019 was 330 (2018: 350), all of whom are based
in the Netherlands.
12 Financial income and expense
Financial expense of € 79 million (2018: net € 76 million)
mainly c
onsists of the interest costs on bonds issued and
the counterpart of the net investment hedge. See also Note
19 and Note 23 to the 'Consolidated financial statements'.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 234 www.dsm.comParent company financia l  statements - Notes to the parent company financial statements
13 Remuneration of Managing Board and Supervisory Board
Discl
osure of the total board remuneration is based on section 383 book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Furthermore, the members
of the Executive Committee (which includes the Managing Board) and the Supervisory Board meet the definition of key
management personnel as defined in IAS 24 ‘Related Parties’. IAS 24 requires disclosure of the total of short-term employee
benefits (salary and short-term incentive), post-employment (pension expenditure) and other long-term benefits (none),
termination benefits and share based payment cost (Share-based compensation), which are reported in the table below:
Key management personnel compensation and total board remuneration
x € thousand 2019 2018
Salary 4,695 4,215
Short-term incentive 2,565 3,387
Pension Expenditure 982 869
Share-based compensation 6,494 4,799
Supervisory Board remuneration 826 696
Other12,022 1,393
Total key management personnel compensation 17,584 15,359
Of which: Managing Board remuneration 7,705 7,836
1 Includes € 1,265,000 (2018: € 727,000), subject to article 32bb of the Dutch Wage Tax Act, being in fact a penalty to the company due to vesting of already granted share units
in pre
vious years.
Heerlen, 26 February 2020 Heerlen, 26 February 2020
Managing Board, Supervisory Board,
Geraldine Matchett, Co-CEO Rob Routs, Chair
Dimitri de Vreeze, Co-CEO Pauline van der Meer Mohr, Deputy Chair
Victoria Haynes
Eileen Kennedy
Erica Mann
Frits van Paasschen
Pradeep Pant
John Ramsay
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 235 www.dsm.comOther information
Independent auditor's report
To: the Annua
l General Meeting of Shareholders and the
Supervisory Board of Koninklijke DSM N.V.
Report on the audit of the financial  statements 2019
included in the Integrated Annual Report
Our opinion
In our opinion:
- the ac
companying consolidated financial statements
give a true and fair view of the financial position of
Koninklijke DSM N.V. (hereafter: Royal DSM) as at
31 December 2019 and of its result and its cash flows for
the year then ended, in accordance with International
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the
European Union (EU-IFRS) and with Part 9 of Book 2 of
the Dutch Civil Code
- the accompanying parent company financial statements
give a true and fair view of the financial position of Royal
DSM as at 31 December 2019 and of its result for the year
then ended in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the
Dutch Civil Code
What we have audited
We have audited the financial statements 2019 of Royal DSM
b
ased in Heerlen. The financial statements include the
consolidated financial statements and the parent company
financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements comprise:
1. the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2019
2. the following consolidated statements for 2019: the
income statement, the statements of comprehensive
income, changes in equity and cash flows
3. the notes comprising a summary of the significant
accounting policies and other explanatory information
The parent company financial statements comprise:
1. the parent company balance sheet as at 31 December
2019
2. the parent company income statement for 2019
3. the notes comprising a summary of the accounting
policies and other explanatory information
Basis for our opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law,
including the Dutch St
andards on Auditing. Our
responsibilities under those standards are further
described in the 'Our responsibilities for the audit of the
financial statements' section of our report.
We are independent of Royal DSM in accordance with the
'Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants
bij assurance-opdrachten' (ViO, Code of Ethics for
Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to
independence) and other relevant independenceregulations in the Netherlands. Furthermore, we have
complied with the '
Verordening gedrags- en beroepsregels
accountants' (VGBA, Dutch Code of Ethics).
We believe the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Audit approach
Summary
Materiality
• Materiality of 
€45 million
• 4.6% of proﬁt before tax, excluding APM 
adjustments as identiﬁed by management of 
Royal DSM 
Group audit
• A
udit at (business) group and local entity level 
resulting in a coverage of 73% of total net sales 
and 76% of total assets
Key audit matters
• Valuation of goodwill
• Accounting for acquisitions of subsidiaries
Opinion
• Unqualiﬁed 
Materiality
Based on our professional judgement we determined the
materia
lity for the financial statements as a whole at
€ 45 million (2018: € 40 million). The materiality is
determined with reference to profit before tax, excluding
APM adjustments as identified by management of Royal
DSM, resulting in a percentage of 4.6% (2018: 3.2%). In
addition, the appropriateness of the materiality was
assessed by comparing the amount to consolidated net
sales of which it represents 0.5% (2018: 0.4%). We have also
taken into account misstatements and/or possible
misstatements that in our opinion are material for the users
of the financial statements for qualitative reasons.
We agreed with the Supervisory Board that misstatements
in excess of € 2 million (2018: € 1.5 million) which are
identified during the audit, would be reported to them, as
well as smaller misstatements that in our view must be
reported on qualitative grounds.
Scope of the group audit
Royal DSM is at the head of a group of reporting entities
(here
after: entities). The financial information of this group
is included in the financial statements of Royal DSM.
Because we are ultimately responsible for the auditor's
report, we are also responsible for directing, supervising
and performing the group audit. In this respect we have
determined the nature and extent of the audit procedures
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 236 www.dsm.comOther information - Independent auditor's report
to be carried out for entities reporting for group audit
purposes. Decisiv e wer
e the size and/or the risk profile of
the entities or operations. On this basis, we selected 22
entities (2018: 22 entities) to perform audits for group
reporting purposes on a complete set of financial
information. In addition, we selected 14 entities (2018: 17
entities) to perform specified audit procedures for group
reporting purposes on specific items of financial
information.
This resulted in a coverage of 73% (2018: 73%) of total net
sales and 76% (2018: 80%) of total assets. The remaining 27%
of total net sales (2018: 27%) and 24% of total assets (2018:
20%) is represented by a significant number of entities
('remaining entities'), none of which individually represents
more than 2% of total net sales and 2% of total assets.
For these remaining entities, we performed among others
analytical procedures at (business) group level to validate
our assessment that there are no risks of material
misstatement within these entities.
Our procedures as described above can be summarized as
follows:
Full scope 
audits65%11% 24%
Speciﬁed 
audit proceduresCentral procedures 
remaining 
entities
54% 19% 27%Total net sales Total assets
Full scope 
auditsSpeciﬁed 
audit proceduresC entral procedures 
remaining 
entities
We have:
-perf
ormed audit procedures ourselves at (business)
group level in respect of areas such as the annual
goodwill impairment tests, other asset impairment
assessments, accounting for associates and joint
ventures including acquisitions and divestments,
valuation of deferred tax assets, acquisitions of
subsidiaries, restructuring provisions, treasury and
shared service centers
- used the work of local KPMG auditors when auditing
financial information or performing specified audit
procedures at business group and local entity level
The group audit team has set materiality levels for the
entities, which ranged from € 5 million to € 12.5 million(2018: € 5 million to € 12.5 million), based on the mix of size
and risk pr ofil
e of the entities within the group.
The group audit team provided detailed instructions to all
business group and local entity auditors part of the group
audit, covering the significant audit areas, including the
relevant risks of material misstatement, and the
information required to be reported back to the group audit
team. The group audit team visited local entity auditors and
entity locations in the United States of America, Switzerland,
China, United Kingdom and the shared service center in
India.
Telephone conferences were held with all local entity
auditors part of the group audit. During these visits and
telephone conferences, we discussed the audit approach
and the audit findings and observations reported to the
group audit team. For a number of these entities we also
performed audit file reviews.
By performing the procedures mentioned above, together
with additional procedures at (business) group level, we
have been able to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit
evidence about the group's financial information to provide
an opinion about the financial statements.
Audit scope in relation to fraud
In accordance with the Dutch standards on auditing we are
responsibl
e for obtaining a high (but not absolute) level
of assurance that the financial statements taken as a whole
are free from material misstatement, whether caused by
fraud or error.
As part of our risk assessment process we have evaluated
events or conditions that indicate an incentive or pressure
to commit fraud or provide an opportunity to commit fraud
('fraud risk factors') to determine whether fraud risks are
relevant to our audit. During this risk assessment we made
use of our own forensic specialist.
We communicated identified fraud risks within our team
and remained alert to any indications of fraud throughout
the audit. This included communication from the group to
local entity audit teams of relevant fraud risks identified at
group level.
In accordance with the auditing standard we evaluated
the fraud risks that are relevant to our audit:
- fraud risk in relation to revenue recognition, specifically
being the risk of manual override with respect to the cut-
off of revenue in the period close to the financial year-
end (the presumed risk)
- fraud risk in relation to management override of controls
to meet targets and/or expectations (the presumed risk)
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 237 www.dsm.comOur audit procedures included an evaluation of the design
and impl ement
ation of internal controls relevant to
mitigate these fraud risks and supplementary substantive
audit procedures. This included inquiries of management,
detailed testing of high risk journal entries and an
evaluation of key estimates and judgment by management,
such as estimates relating to goodwill impairment testing
and accounting for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
Furthermore, in relation to the correct recognition of
revenues for the period close to the financial year-end, we
carried out inspection and testing of documentation such
as agreements with customers and shipping documents.
In determining the audit procedures we made use of the
evaluation of management of Royal DSM in relation to fraud
risk management (prevention, detection and response),
including the set-up of ethical standards to create a culture
of honesty.
As part of our evaluation of any instances of fraud, we
inspected the incident register/whistle blowing reports and
follow up by management.
We communicated our risk assessment and audit response
to the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board. Our audit
procedures differ from a specific forensic fraud
investigation, which investigation often has a more in-depth
character.
Our audit is based on the procedures described in line with
applicable auditing standards and are not primarily
designed to detect fraud.
Audit scope in relation to non-compliance with laws and
reg
ulations
We have made an assessment of laws and regulations that
are 
relevant to Royal DSM. In this assessment we made use
of our own forensic specialist.
We identified laws and regulations that could reasonably be
expected to have a material effect on the financial
statements based on our general understanding and sector
experience, through discussion with relevant management
and evaluating Royal DSM's policies and procedures
regarding compliance with laws and regulations.
We communicated identified laws and regulations within
our team and remained alert to any indications of non-
compliance throughout the audit. This included
communication from the group audit team to local entity
audit teams of relevant laws and regulations identified at
group level.The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the
financial
 statements varies considerably:
- Firstly, Royal DSM is subject to laws and regulations that
directly affect the financial statements, in particular
corporate income taxation and financial reporting
(including related Company legislation). We assessed
the extent of compliance with these laws and regulations
as part of our procedures on the related financial
statement items
- Secondly, Royal DSM is subject to many other laws and
regulations where the consequences of non-compliance
could have an indirect material effect on amounts
recognized or disclosures provided in the financial
statements, or both, for instance through the imposition
of fines or litigation
Based on Royal DSM's nature of operations and their
geographical spread, the areas that we identified as those
most likely having such an indirect effect include laws and
regulations regarding employment, health and safety,
products, environmental and anti-competition.
Auditing standards limit the required audit procedures to
identify non-compliance with laws and regulations that
have an indirect effect to inquiring of relevant management
and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence, if
any. Through these procedures, we did not identify any
additional actual or suspected non-compliance other than
those already identified by Royal DSM in each of the above
areas. We considered the effect of actual or suspected non-
compliance as part of our procedures with respect to
provisions and disclosures of contingent liabilities.
Our audit is not primarily designed to detect non-
compliance with laws and regulations and note that
management is responsible for such internal control as
management determines is necessary to enable the
preparation of the financial statements that are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error,
including compliance with laws and regulations.
The more non-compliance with indirect laws and
regulations (irregularities) is distant from the events and
transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less
likely the inherently limited procedures required by
auditing standards would identify such instances. In
addition, as with any audit, there remained a higher risk
of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve
collusion, forgery, intentional omissions,
misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
Our key audit matters
Key audit matter s are those matters that, in our professional
judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 238 www.dsm.comOther information - Independent auditor's report
financial statements. We have communicated the key audit
matt
ers to the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board.
The key audit matters are not a comprehensive reflection
of all matters discussed.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit
of the financial statements as a whole and in forming our
opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion
on these matters.
Compared to last year we have added as a key audit matter
the accounting for acquisitions of subsidiaries as the
acquisitions closed in 2019 on an accumulated basis are
significant for the financial statements. Last year's key audit
matter about the divestment of DSM Sinochem
Pharmaceuticals is not included anymore in 2019, given
the one-off nature of the divestment.
Valuation of goodwill
Description
Royal DSM carries a significant amount of goodwill in the
balance sheet. In accordance with the group's accounting
policies Royal DSM is required to test the amount of
goodwill for impairment at least annually. The impairment
tests were significant to our audit due to the complexity of
the assessment process and judgments and assumptions
involved which are affected by expected future market and
economic developments.
Our response
We evaluated the design and implementation of controls
with respect to Royal DSM's impairment testing process. We
challenged the cash flow projections included in the annual
goodwill impairment tests. Our audit procedures included,
among others, the involvement of a valuation specialist to
assist us in evaluating the assumptions, in particular the
terminal growth and pre-tax discount rates, and the
valuation methodology used by Royal DSM. We furthermore
assessed the appropriateness of other data used, by
comparing them to external and historical data, such as
external market growth expectations and by analysing
sensitivities in Royal DSM's valuation model. We specifically
focused on the sensitivity in the available headroom for
the cash generating units. By doing so, we assessed
management's evaluation whether a reasonably possible
change in key assumptions could cause the carrying
amount to exceed its recoverable amount. Furthermore, we
assessed the historical accuracy of management's
estimates. Finally, we assessed the adequacy of the
disclosure (Note 8) to the financial statements.
Our observationWe consider management's key assumptions and estimates
t
o be within the acceptable range and we assessed the
disclosure (Note 8) to the financial statements as being
proportionate.
Accounting for acquisitions of subsidiaries
Description
During 2019, Royal DSM closed multiple acquisitions of
subsidiaries, of which Andre Pectin was the most significant
acquisition. The acquisitions involved a total consideration
of EUR 585 million. These acquisitions had an aggregated
impact on Goodwill and Intangible assets of EUR 338 million
and EUR 125 million respectively. The acquisitions were
significant to our audit due to the complexity of purchase
price accounting and related judgments and assumptions
such as the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired.
Our response
We inspected the agreements and other documents
underlying the acquisitions to gain an understanding of
the contractual terms and conditions to assess the
consideration and the acquired identifiable assets and
liabilities. We obtained the reports from the external
valuation experts engaged by Royal DSM to assist
management with the purchase price accounting and the
identification of identifiable assets and liabilities in the
respective business combinations. We involved a valuation
specialist ourselves to evaluate management's valuation
methodologies, and assumptions used such as growth rates
and discount rates to arrive at the fair value of assets and
liabilities recognised in the purchase price allocation. Our
assessment of key assumptions used by management
included a comparison with available external data. We also
evaluated the adequacy of the disclosure (Note 3) of the
acquisitions in the financial statements.
Our observation
We consider that the acquisitions are appropriately
reflected in the financial statements. Management's key
assumptions and estimates are within the acceptable range
and we assessed the disclosure (Note 3) to the financial
statements as being proportionate.
Report on the other information  included in the Integrated
Annual Report
In addition to the financial  statements and our auditor's
report thereon, the Integrated Annual Report contains other
information.
Based on the following procedures performed, we conclude
that the other information:
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 239 www.dsm.com- is consistent with the financia l  statements and does not
contain material misstatements
- contains the information as required by Part 9 of Book 2
of the Dutch Civil Code.
We have read the other information. Based on our
knowledge and understanding obtained through our audit
of the financial statements or otherwise, we have
considered whether the other information contains
material misstatements.
By performing these procedures, we comply with the
requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and
the Dutch Standard 720. The scope of the procedures
performed is substantially less than the scope of those
performed in our audit of the financial statements.
The Managing Board is responsible for the preparation of
the other information, including the information as
required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements
Engagement
We were engaged by the Annual General Meeting of
Sharehol
ders as auditor of Royal DSM on 7 May 2014, as of
the audit for the year 2015 and have operated as statutory
auditor ever since that financial year.
No prohibited non-audit services
We have not provided prohibited non-audit services as
ref
erred to in Article 5(1) of the EU Regulation on specific
requirements regarding statutory audits of public-interest
entities.
Description of responsibilities regarding the financial
st
atements
Responsibilities of the Managing Board  and the Supervisory
Board for the financial statements
The Managing Board is responsible for the preparation and
fair 
presentation of the financial statements in accordance
with EU-IFRS and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
Furthermore, the Managing Board is responsible for such
internal control as the Managing Board determines is
necessary to enable the preparation of the financial
statements that are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error.
As part of the preparation of the financial statements, the
Managing Board is responsible for assessing Royal DSM's
ability to continue as a going concern. Based on the
financial reporting frameworks mentioned, the Managing
Board should prepare the financial statements using the
going concern basis of accounting unless the Managing
Board either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. The
Managing Board should disclose events and circumstancesthat may cast significant doubt on the Royal DSM's ability to
c
ontinue as a going concern in the financial statements.
The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing Royal
DSM's financial reporting process.
Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements
Our 
objective is to plan and perform the audit engagement
in a manner that all
ows us to obtain sufficient and
appropriate audit evidence for our opinion.
Our audit has been performed with a high, but not absolute,
level of assurance, which means we may not detect all
material errors and fraud during our audit.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they
could reasonably be expected to influence the economic
decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial
statements. The materiality affects the nature, timing and
extent of our audit procedures and the evaluation of the
effect of identified misstatements on our opinion.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit
of the financial statements is included in the appendix to
this auditor's report. This description forms part of our
auditor's report.
Amstelveen, 26 February 2020
KPMG Accountants N.V.
E.H.W. Weusten RA
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 240 www.dsm.comOther information - Independent auditor's report
Appendix: Description of our responsibilities for the audit
of the financia l
 statements
We have exercised professional judgement and have
maintained professional scepticism throughout the audit,
in accordance with Dutch Standards on Auditing, ethical
requirements and independence requirements. Our audit
included among others:
- identifying and assessing the risks of material
misstatement of the financial statements, whether due
to fraud or error, designing and performing audit
procedures responsive to those risks, and obtaining
audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to
provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting
a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher
than the risk resulting from error, as fraud may involve
collusion, forgery, intentional omissions,
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control
- obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant
to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the
purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness
of Royal DSM's internal control
- evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies
used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates
and related disclosures made by the Managing Board
- concluding on the appropriateness of the Managing
Board's use of the going concern basis of accounting, and
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a
material uncertainty exists related to events or
conditions that may cast significant doubt on Royal
DSM's ability to continue as a going concern. If we
conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are
required to draw attention in our auditor's report to the
related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such
disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained
up to the date of our auditor's report. However, future
events or conditions may cause a Company to cease to
continue as a going concern
- evaluating the overall presentation, structure and
content of the financial statements, including the
disclosures
- evaluating whether the financial statements represent
the underlying transactions and events in a manner that
achieves fair presentation
We are solely responsible for the opinion and therefore
responsible to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence
regarding the financial information of the entities or
business activities within the group to express an opinion
on the financial statements. In this respect we are also
responsible for directing, supervising and performing the
group audit.We communicate with the Supervisory Board regarding,
among other matter
s, the planned scope and timing of
the audit and significant audit findings, including any
significant findings in internal control that we identify
during our audit. In this respect we also submit an
additional report to the Supervisory Board in accordance
with Article 11 of the EU Regulation on specific requirements
regarding statutory audits of public-interest entities. The
information included in this additional report is consistent
with our audit opinion in this auditor's report.
We provide the Supervisory Board with a statement that we
have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all
relationships and other matters that may reasonably be
thought to bear on our independence, and where
applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with the Supervisory
Board, we determine the key audit matters: those matters
that were of most significance in the audit of the financial
statements. We describe these matters in our auditor's
report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure
about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances,
not communicating the matter is in the public interest.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 241 www.dsm.comAssurance report of the independent
audit or
T
o: the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and the
Supervisory Board of Koninklijke DSM N.V.
Report on the audit of the sustainability information 2019
included in the Integr
ated Annual Report
 
Our opinion
We have audited the sustainability information in the
sections 'Introduction l
etter', 'DSM and the Sustainable
Development Goals', 'Report by the Managing Board',
consisting of the chapters Purpose, Strategy 2021, How we
create value for our stakeholders, Stakeholders, People,
Planet, and the 'Sustainability Statements', as included in
the Integrated Annual Report for the year 2019 (hereafter
the 'Sustainability Information') of Koninklijke DSM N.V.
(hereafter 'Royal DSM'), based in Heerlen, Netherlands.
In our opinion, the Sustainability Information is prepared,
in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI
Sustainability Reporting Standards and Royal DSM's
internally developed supplemental reporting criteria as
disclosed in the section 'Non-financial reporting policy' on
page 104 of the Integrated Annual Report.
Basis for our opinion
We performed our audit on the Sustainability Information
in acc
ordance with Dutch law, including Dutch Standard
3810N 'Assurance-opdrachten inzake maatschappelijke
verslagen' (Assurance engagements relating to
sustainability reports), which is a specified Dutch standard
that is based on the International Standard on Assurance
Engagements (ISAE) 3000 'Assurance Engagements Other
than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information'.
This engagement is aimed to obtain reasonable assurance.
Our responsibilities in this regard are further described in
the 'Our responsibilities for the audit of the Sustainability
Information' section of our report.
We are independent of Royal DSM in accordance with the
'Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants
bij assurance-opdrachten' (ViO, Code of Ethics for
Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to
independence). Furthermore, we have complied with the
'Verordening gedrags- en beroepsregels accountants'
(VGBA, Dutch Code of Ethics).
We believe the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.Applicable criteria
The Sustainabilit
y Information needs to be read and
understood together with the reporting criteria. Royal DSM
is solely responsible for selecting and applying these
reporting criteria, taking into account applicable law and
regulations related to reporting.
The reporting criteria used for the preparation of the
Sustainability Information are the GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards and Royal DSM's internally developed
supplemental reporting criteria as disclosed in the section
'Non-financial reporting policy' on page 104 of the
Integrated Annual Report.
The GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards are the most
widely adopted global standards for sustainability reporting
and are used by Royal DSM for reporting publicly on its
economic, environmental and social sustainability
indicators.
Scope of the group audit
Royal DSM is the parent company of a group of reporting
entities (here
after: 'entities'). The Sustainability Information
incorporates the consolidated information of this group of
entities.
Our group audit procedures consisted of audit procedures
at corporate, business group and at local entity level. Our
selection of entities in scope of our assurance procedures
is primarily based on the local entity's individual
contribution to the consolidated Sustainability Information.
Furthermore, our selection of entities considered relevant
reporting risks and geographical spread.
By performing our procedures at corporate, business group
and local entity level, we have been able to obtain sufficient
and appropriate assurance evidence about Royal DSM's
reported Sustainability Information to provide an opinion
about the Sustainability Information.
Our key assurance matter
Key assurance matters of our audit are those matters that,
in our prof
essional judgment, were of most significance in
our audit of the Sustainability Information. We have
communicated the key assurance matter to the Managing
Board and the Supervisory Board. The key assurance matter
is not a comprehensive reflection of all matters discussed.
This assurance matter was addressed in the context of our
audit of the Sustainability Information as a whole, and we
do not provide a separate opinion on this matter.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 242 www.dsm.comOther information - Assurance report of the independent auditor
The sustainability indicator on DSM's solutions labelled as
Bright er Living Solutions w
as determined to be a key
assurance matter as the assessment is inherently subject to
assumptions and management judgement, whereas the
determination of other important sustainability indicators
on Safety, Health and Environment and Human Resources
do require such judgement to a lesser extent.
Brighter Living Solutions
Description
Royal DSM reports on Brighter Living Solutions ("BLS") which
are products and services that have specific environmental
or social benefits compared to mainstream reference
solutions. The KPI is defined as net sales from BLS as a
percentage of total net sales of Royal DSM. BLS was
significant to our audit since we identified that it serves as
a material indicator for Royal DSM to report on the
environmental and social impact of its solutions and
because the assessment of solutions to qualify as BLS is
inherently subject to assumptions and judgement.
Our response
We evaluated the reporting process, internal controls and
the applicable definitions and criteria. We interviewed Royal
DSM's staff members to understand the application of these
definitions and criteria and we challenged the underlying
evidence, such as the life cycle assessments and expert
opinions for solutions classified as BLS and assessed the
calculation of the BLS percentage. Finally, we assessed
whether the criteria, assumptions and definitions are
sufficiently explained in the Integrated Annual Report and
on the website of Royal DSM.
Our observation
We consider that the definitions and criteria for BLS as
described in Royal DSM's internally developed
supplemental reporting criteria on page 105 are applied and
that the assumptions are adequately explained. We also
consider the disclosure on BLS as being proportionate.
Limitations to the scope of our audit
The Sustainability Information includes prospective
information
 such as ambitions, strategy, plans, expectations
and estimates. Inherently the actual future results are
uncertain. We do not provide any assurance on the
assumptions and achievability of prospective information
included in the aforementioned sections of Royal DSM's
Integrated Annual Report.Responsibilities of the Managing Board and the
Supervisory Boar
d for the Sustainability Information
The Managing Board of Royal DSM is responsible for the
preparation of the Sustainability Information in accordance
with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards and Royal
DSM's internally developed supplemental reporting criteria
as disclosed in the section 'Non-financial reporting policy'
on page 104 of the Integrated Annual Report, including the
identification of stakeholders and the definition of material
matters. The choices made by the Managing Board regarding
the scope of the Sustainability Information and the
reporting policy are summarized in the section 'Non-
financial reporting policy' of the Integrated Annual Report.
Furthermore, the Managing Board is responsible for such
internal control as it determines is necessary to enable
the preparation of the Sustainability Information that is free
from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error.
The Supervisory Board is, among other things, responsible
for overseeing Royal DSM's sustainability reporting process.
Our responsibilities for the audit of the Sustainability
Information
Our r
esponsibility is to plan and perform our assurance
enga
gement in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient
and appropriate assurance evidence for our opinion.
Our audit has been performed with a high, but not absolute,
level of assurance, which means we may not have detected
all material misstatements due to fraud or error.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or errors and are
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they
could reasonably be expected to influence the decisions
of users taken on the basis of the Sustainability
Information. The materiality affects the nature, timing and
extent of our audit procedures and the evaluation of the
effect of identified misstatements on our opinion.
We apply the 'Nadere Voorschriften Kwaliteitssystemen'
(Regulations on Quality management systems) and
accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality
control including documented policies and procedures
regarding compliance with ethical requirements,
professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory
requirements.
We have exercised professional judgement and have
maintained professional skepticism throughout the audit,
in accordance with the Dutch Standard 3810N, ethical
requirements and independence requirements.
Our audit engagement included among others:
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 243 www.dsm.com- Performing an analysis of the external environment and
obtaining an under
standing of relevant social themes
and issues, and the characteristics of Royal DSM
- Evaluating the appropriateness of the reporting criteria
used, their consistent application and related
disclosures in the Sustainability Information. This
includes the evaluation of the results of the
stakeholders' dialogue and the reasonableness of
estimates made by management of Royal DSM
- Obtaining an understanding of the systems and
processes for collecting, reporting and consolidating
the Sustainability Information, including obtaining an
understanding of internal control relevant to our audit,
but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on
the effectiveness of Royal DSM's internal control
- Evaluating the procedures performed by the internal
audit department
- Identifying and assessing the risks if the Sustainability
Information is misleading or unbalanced, or contains
material misstatements, whether due to errors or fraud.
Designing and performing further audit procedures
responsive to those risks, and obtaining audit evidence
that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for
our opinion. The risk that the Sustainability Information
is misleading or unbalanced, or the risk of not detecting
a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher
than for one resulting from errors. Fraud may involve
collusion, forgery, intentional omissions,
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
These further procedures include among others:
- Interviewing management and relevant staff of Royal
DSM at corporate, business group and local entity
level responsible for the sustainability strategy, policy
and results
- Interviewing relevant staff of Royal DSM responsible
for providing the information for, carrying out internal
control procedures on, and consolidating the data in
the Sustainability Information;
- Determining the nature and extent of the audit
procedures at corporate, business group and local
entity level. For this, the nature, extent and/or risk
profile of these local entities are decisive. Based
thereon we selected the local entities to visit. The
visits and remote reviews to eight production sites
in six countries were aimed at, on a local level,
validating source data and evaluating the design,
implementation and operation of controls and
validation procedures
- Obtaining assurance information that the
Sustainability Information reconciles with underlying
records of Royal DSM
- Evaluating relevant internal and external
documentation, on a test basis, to determine the
reliability of the information in the Sustainability
Information
- Performing an analytical review of the data and trends- Reconciling the relevant financial  information with the
financial statements
- Evaluating the consistency of the Sustainability
Information with the information in the Integrated
Annual Report which is not included in the scope of our
audit
- Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and
content of the Sustainability Information
- To consider whether the Sustainability Information as a
whole, including the disclosures, reflects the purpose
of the reporting criteria used
We communicate with the Supervisory Board regarding,
among other matters, the planned scope and timing of
the audit and significant findings, including any significant
findings in internal control that we identify during our audit.
Amstelveen, 26 February 2020
KPMG Accountants N.V.
E.H.W. Weusten RA
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 244 www.dsm.comOther information - Special statutory rights
Special statutory rights
DSM Preference Shares Foundation
The DSM Preference Shares Foundation was established in
1989.
By virtue of DS
M's Articles of Association, 375,000,000
cumulative preference shares B can be issued. The listing
prospectus of 1989 stated that if, without the approval of
the Managing Board and Supervisory Board, either a bid is
made for the ordinary shares or a significant participation
in ordinary shares is built up, or such an event is likely to
occur, then these preference shares B may be issued, which
shall have the same voting rights as the ordinary shares.
Under an agreement entered into in 1999, and subsequently
amended, between the DSM Preference Shares Foundation
and DSM, the Foundation has the right to acquire such
preference shares (call option) to a maximum
corresponding to 100% of the capital issued in any form
other than preference shares B, less one.
The objective of the Foundation is to promote the interest
of DSM, and the enterprise maintained by DSM and all
parties connected therewith, whereby influences that would
threaten the continuity, independence or identity, contrary
to the aforementioned interests, are resisted to the
maximum extent possible.
The purpose of the agreement with the Foundation is,
among other things, for the Foundation to allow DSM the
opportunity to determine its position, for example with
regard to a possible bidder for DSM shares or a party or
parties tempting to obtain (de facto) control, to examine any
plans in detail and, to the extent applicable, to look for
(better) alternatives. Preference shares B will not be
outstanding longer than necessary. As soon as there are no
longer any reasons for the preference shares B to remain
outstanding, the Managing Board will convene a General
Meeting of Shareholders and recommend the cancellation
of the preference shares B that are still outstanding.
The Foundation acquired no preference shares B in 2019.
The DSM Preference Shares Foundation is an independent
legal entity within the meaning of article 5:71, first
paragraph, under c of the Dutch Act on Financial Supervision
(Wet op het financieel toezicht).
On 31 December 2019, the board of the Foundation was
composed as follows:
Gerard Kleisterlee, Chair
Cees Maas, Deputy Chair
Bas KortmannImportant dates
Annual General Meeting of Shareholders
The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders is to be held at
the DS
M head office in Heerlen (Netherlands) on Friday, 8 May
2020 at 14:00 hours CET.
Important dates
Publication of fir st -quarter
results Thursday, 7 May 2020
Ex-dividend quotation Tuesday, 12 May 2020
Publication of second-quarter
results Tuesday, 4 August 2020
Publication of third-quarter
results T
uesday, 3 November 2020
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 245 www.dsm.comDSM fig ures: five-year summary
Ba
lance sheet
x € million 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Assets
Intangible assets 3,515 3,090 3,058 3,188 3,228
Property, plant and equipment 4,040 3,511 3,313 3,325 3,171
Deferred tax assets 217 248 281 355 366
Share in associates and joint ventures 155 205 227 586 644
Financial derivatives 27 14 16 - 32
Other financia l  assets 265 263 475 463 419
Non-current assets 8,219 7,331 7,370 7,917 7,860
Inventories 2,019 1,993 1,848 1,800 1,627
Current receivables 1,698 1,738 1,690 1,653 1,556
Financial derivatives 19 21 41 40 15
Current investments 688 1,277 954 944 9
Cash and cash equivalents 800 1,281 899 604 665
5,224 6,310 5,432 5,041 3,872
Assets held for sale - - - - 11
Current assets 5,224 6,310 5,432 5,041 3,883
Total assets 13,443 13,641 12,802 12,958 11,743
Equity and liabilities
Shareholders' equity 7,731 7,782 6,962 6,072 5,541
Non-controlling interests 104 33 103 108 90
Equity 7,835 7,815 7,065 6,180 5,631
Deferred tax liabilities 296 254 259 278 319
Employee benefit liabilities 413 413 356 490 496
Provisions 120 116 151 128 98
Borrowings 2,464 2,272 2,551 2,552 2,557
Financial derivatives 7 3 4 14 182
Other non-current liabilities 145 197 188 158 228
Non-current liabilities 3,445 3,255 3,509 3,620 3,880
Employee benefit liabilities 43 46 39 40 44
Provisions 48 37 53 54 41
Borrowings 189 380 77 853 253
Financial derivatives 18 51 20 239 50
Current liabilities 1,865 2,057 2,039 1,972 1,842
2,163 2,571 2,228 3,158 2,230
Liabilities held for sale - - - - 2
Current liabilities 2,163 2,571 2,228 3,158 2,232
Total equity and liabilities 13,443 13,641 12,802 12,958 11,743
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 246 www.dsm.comDSM fig ures: five-year summary
Inc
ome statement
x € million 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Net sales underlying business19,010 8,852 8,632 7,920 7,722
Net sales 9,010 9,267 8,632 7,920 8,935
Adjusted EBITDA underlying business11,684 1,532 1,445 1,262 1,075
Adjusted EBITDA21,684 1,822 1,445 1,262 1,170
EBITDA 1,586 1,754 1,348 1,146 1,046
Adjusted operating pr ofit  (EBIT) underlying business11,075 1,055 957 791 573
Adjusted operating pr ofit  (EBIT)21,075 1,345 957 791 650
Operating pr ofit  (EBIT) 954 1,245 846 657 304
Financial income and expense (92) (101) (104) (133) (174)
Income tax expense (152) (194) (115) (89) (68)
Share of the pr ofit  of associates and joint ventures 54 129 1,154 194 30
Profit f or the year 764 1,079 1,781 629 92
Profit attribut abl e to non-controlling interests 6 2 12 8 4
Net pr ofit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM
N.
V. 758 1,077 1,769 621 88
Dividend on cumulative preference shares (8) (8) (8) (4) (10)
Net pr ofit available to holders of ordinary shares 750 1,069 1,761 617 78
Key fig ures and financial ratios
Capital employed 9,311 8,181 7,766 7,889 7,553
Capital expenditure:
- Intangible assets and Property, plant and equipment 623 653 586 485 570
- Acquisitions 585 50 264 16 106
Disposals 44 335 1,546 87 307
Depreciation, amortization and impairments 632 509 502 489 742
Net debt (1,144) (113) (742) (2,070) (2,321)
Dividend 425 412 331 310 297
Workforce at 31 December, headcount 22,174 20,977 21,054 20,786 20,796
Employee benefit c osts (x € million) 1,811 1,753 1,768 1,752 1,778
Financial ratios2
- ROCE in % underlying business112.0 13.3 12.3 10.4 7.6
- ROCE in % 12.0 16.8 12.3 10.4 8.2
- Net sales underlying business / average capital
empl o
yed11.01 1.11 1.11 1.04 1.03
- Current assets / current liabilities 2.42 2.45 2.44 1.58 1.62
- Equity / total assets 0.58 0.57 0.55 0.48 0.48
- Gearing (net debt / equity plus net debt) 0.13 0.01 0.10 0.25 0.29
- Adjusted EBIT underlying business / net sales in %
underl ying busines
s111.9 11.9 11.1 10.0 7.4
- Net pr ofit / average Shareholders' equity available to
hol
ders of ordinary shares in % 10.0 24.7 28.0 11.1 1.4
- Adjusted EBITDA underlying business / Financial income
and e xpense118.
3 15.2 13.9 9.5 7.2
1 Continuing operations, excluding temporary vitamin effect 2018, see table in 'Key business fig ur es at a glance' on page 65.
2 In presenting and discussing DSM's financial position, operating results and cash flows, DSM uses certain Alternative performance measures (APMs) not defined by IFRS.
These APMs are used because they are an important measure of DSM's business development and DSM's management performance. A full reconciliation of IFRS performance
measures to the APMs is given in the 'Alternative performance measures' on page 178.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 247 www.dsm.comInformation about ordinary DSM shares
per ordinary share in € 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Adjusted Net pr ofit 4.64 5.84 3.92 2.90 2.14
Net pr ofit 4.27 6.10 10.07 3.52 0.45
Operating cash flow 7.84 7.89 5.65 5.79 3.93
Dividend: 2.40 2.30 1.85 1.75 1.65
- Interim dividend 0.77 0.77 0.58 0.55 0.55
- Final dividend 1.63 1.53 1.27 1.20 1.10
Pay-out including dividend on c umul ative preference shares
as % of Adjusted net profit 52 40 48 61 71
Dividend yiel d  (dividend as % of average price of an ordinary
DSM share) 2.3 2.7 2.8 3.3 3.5
Share prices on Euronext Amsterdam (closing price):
- Highest price 117.90 92.98 81.66 64.18 55.11
- Lowest price 69.54 68.98 57.20 41.40 39.62
- At 31 December 116.10 71.44 79.67 56.96 46.28
(x 1,000)
Number of ordinary shares outstanding:
- At 31 December 172,449 175,651 174,643 175,002 174,923
- Average 175,731 175,323 174,795 175,100 174,357
Daily trading volumes on Euronext Amsterdam:
- Average 635 732 676 787 912
- Lowest 75 130 238 152 130
- Highest 2,242 2,617 2,110 2,554 4,506
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 248 www.dsm.comExplanation of some concepts
and r atios
PE
OPLE
Brighter Living Solutions
See below, Planet — Brighter Living Solutions.
Eubiotics
The general term 'Eubiotics', is related to the Greek term
'Eubiosis
' and relates to feed ingredients that support an
optimal balance of microbiota in the gastrointestinal tract
of livestock animals. They promote efficient gut
performance so as to produce well-nourished animals that
get the most from their feed, while at the same time
sustaining their health and welfare and protecting the
environment.
Frequency Index (FI)
The Frequency Index is a way to measure safety
performanc
e. The number of accidents of a particular
category per 100 employees per year.
Inclusion Index
The Inclusion Index is a subset of items in the Employee
Eng
agement (Pulse) Survey to specifically measure
Inclusion. Inclusion is: "A working environment where all
employees are a full and equal member of a team;
where diverse perspectives are valued, and investment is
made in their development; where people are respected
and able to contribute as they are and not having to
conform; where they can reach their potential, and where
they can speak up without fear of retribution."
LWC-rate DSM own
The Lost Workday Case (LWC)-rate DSM own is the number
of lost
 workday cases per 100 DSM employees in the past 12
months:
LWC-rate = 100 * (number of LWCs (past 12 months) / average
effective manpower (past 12 months)).
Lives Reached
Lives Reached is a measure of consumers already reached
through
 consumer products of third parties containing DSM
products and solutions. This measure addresses key end-
markets representing more than 25% of DSM's total sales.
These end-markets cover our business segments —
Nutrition, Materials and Innovation Center. The increase to
‘more than 2.5 billion people’ is due to the inclusion of
additional cases in the Lives Reached scope.
The number of Lives Reached is calculated for each market
separately and then aggregated. As a business-to-business
company, our products reach end-consumers via third
parties, so calculations per market are performed at global
level. Consumer touch points are assumed to be unrelated,
and overlap is eliminated using statistical methods (DeMorgan's Law and Probability Theory — Independence).
The actual
 overlap may be larger or smaller than calculated
based on this assumption.
Key assumptions are used to perform these calculations
and include DSM's market share, total consumer markets,
share of wallet and consumer consumption behavior. These
assumptions are made based on external market data
where available, supplemented with market and business
intelligence insights.
For more information on Lives Reached, see the company
website.
Occupational Health Case
This refers to any abnormal condition or disorder requiring
medica
l treatment — other than one resulting directly from
an accident — caused by, or mainly caused by, repeated
exposure to work-related factors.
PSI rate
The PSI rate is the number of Process Safety Incidents per
100 DSM empl
oyees and contractor employees in the past
12 months: PSI rate = 100 * (number of PSIs (past 12
months) / average effective manpower including contractor
employees (past 12 months)).
REC-rate DSM all
The REC-rate DSM all is the number of recordable injuries
per 100 DSM empl
oyees and contractor employees in the
past 12 months: REC-rate = 100 * (number of RECs (past 12
months) / average effective manpower including contractor
employees (past 12 months)).
Safety, Health and Environment (SHE)
DSM's policy is to maintain business activities and produce
products that do not adv
ersely affect safety or health, and
that fit with the concept of sustainable development. The
company does this by setting the following objectives: to
provide an injury-free and incident-free workplace; to
prevent all work-related disabilities or health problems; to
control and minimize the risks associated with DSM's
products for their whole life cycle and to choose production
processes and products such that the use of raw materials
and energy is minimized; to evaluate and improve DSM's
practices, processes and products continuously in order to
make them safe and acceptable to its employees, the
customers, the public and the environment.
United Nations Global Compact
A strategic policy initiative for businesses that are
committ
ed to aligning their operations and strategies with
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 249 www.dsm.comten universally accepted principles in the areas of human
rights, l abor
, environment and anti-corruption.
United Nations' Universal Declaration of Human Rights
On 10 December 1948, the General Assembly of the United
Nations adopt
ed and proclaimed the Universal Declaration
of Human Rights. Following this historic act, the Assembly
called upon all Member countries to publicize the text of
the Declaration and "to cause it to be disseminated,
displayed, read and expounded principally in schools and
other educational institutions, without distinction based on
the political status of countries or territories."
PLANET
Biofuel
A fuel which is derived from renewable organic resources,
as distinct fr
om one which is derived from non-renewable
resources such as crude oil and natural gas.
Brighter Living Solutions
Brighter Living Solutions (BLS) are products and services
that, when c
onsidered over the product life cycle, offer an
environmental benefit (ECO+) and/or a social benefit
(People+) compared to mainstream reference solutions.
ECO+ qualifications are made based on comparative Eco Life
Cycle Assessment (LCA). DSM is using the standard approach
to evaluate environmental footprint as published by the
WBCSD Chemical sector in 2014. Qualifications are also
made based on documented expert opinion by business
managers or relevant internal experts based on identified
mainstream reference solutions and identified
environmental differentiators.
The People+ qualifications are made based on DSM People
LCA method or expert opinions, similar as for ECO+. The
People LCA method helps to identify social impacts of
products on the dimensions health, comfort and well-being,
working conditions, and community development. This
methodology is developed by DSM based on internal
standards and external stakeholder dialogues.
More information and definitions can be found on the
company website.
Carbon footprint
The total set of direct and indirect greenhouse gas
emissions e
xpressed as CO2eq.
Carbon price
The price that is paid to emit one ton CO2eq into the
atmospher
e. DSM implements an internal carbon price of
€ 50/t CO2eq.Circular economy
Circ
ular economy refers to an economy that is restorative
and in which materials flows are of two types: biological
nutrients, designed to re-enter the biosphere safely, and
technical nutrients, which are designed to circulate at high
quality without entering the biosphere throughout their
entire lifecycle.
CO2
Carbon dioxide, a gas that naturally occurs in the
atmosphere
. It is part of the natural carbon cycle through
photosynthesis and respiration. It is also generated as a by-
product of combustion. Carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas.
Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD)
COD is an indicat or of the degree of pollution of waste water
by organic substances.
Eco-efficiency
Eco-efficiency is a conc ept (created in 1992 by the WBCSD)
that refers to the creation of more goods and services while
using less resources and creating less waste and pollution
throughout their entire life cycle. In the context of DSM's SHE
targets, eco-efficiency relates specifically to the reduction
of emissions and energy and water consumption, relative to
the production volumes of DSM's plants.
Energy
Primary energy  is energy that has not yet been subjected to
a human engineered conversion process. It is the energy
contained in unprocessed fuels.
Final (consumed) energy is the energy that is consumed by
end-users. The difference between primary energy and final
consumed energy is caused by the conversion process
between the two as well as any transmission losses.
Essential for life
Essential for life refers to products that have a proven
beneficial
 nutritional or pharmaceutical effect when used
at the officially recommended dose.
Greenhouse gas emissions (GHGE)
Scope 1: Direct GHG emissions
Direct
 GHG emissions occur from sources that are owned or
controlled by the company (i.e., emissions from combustion
in owned or controlled boilers, furnaces, vehicles, etc.).
Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions
Indirect GHG emissions relate to the generation of
purchased energy (i.e., electricity, heat or cooling)
consumed by the company. Purchased energy is defined as
energy that is purchased or otherwise brought into the
organizational boundary of the company. Scope 2 emissions
physically occur at the facility where the energy is
generated.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 250 www.dsm.comExplanation of some concepts and ratios
Scope 3: Value chain emissions
Scope 3 emis
sions are all indirect emissions (not included
in scope 2) that occur in the value chain of the reporting
company, including both upstream and downstream
emissions.
Location-based emissions
Reflects the average GHG emissions intensity of grids on
which electricity consumption occurs (using mostly national
grid-average emission factor data). Corresponding emission
factor: in most cases, the country emission factor.
Market-based emissions
Reflects GHG emissions from electricity supplies that
companies have purposely chosen (or their lack of choice)
and contracted. Corresponding emission factors:
- Supplier specific emission factor (provided by the
supplier)
- Residual emission factor (country-based grid factor,
corrected for allocated purchased electricity from
renewable resources)
Greenhouse gas emissions (GHGE) efficiency impro vement
The GHGE efficiency impro vement is the amount of GHG
emissions per unit of output (specific emissions) in a given
year compared to the specific emissions in the prior year.
GHGE efficiency improvements are one of the ratios in the
Long-Term Incentive part of the Managing Board
remuneration and relate to a three-year period.
GRI
The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) has developed
Sustainabilit
y Reporting Guidelines that strive to increase
the transparency and accountability of economic,
environmental, and social performance. The GRI was
established in 1997 in partnership with the UN Environment
Programme. It is an international, multi-stakeholder and
independent institution whose mission is to develop and
disseminate globally applicable Sustainability Reporting
Guidelines. These Guidelines are for voluntary use by
organizations for reporting on the economic,
environmental, and social dimensions of their activities,
products and services.
Levelized Cost of Energy (LCOE)
LCOE is a figur e used to compare the average cost of energy
coming from different sources. It measures the cost of
energy production over the lifetime of an asset like a
photovoltaic panel.
Loss of Primary Containment (LOPC)
Loss of Primary Containment is an unplanned or
uncontr
olled release of material from the container that is
in direct contact with the material.Net-zero emissions
The Inter
governmental Panel on Climate Change states:
"Net-zero emissions are achieved when anthropogenic
emissions of greenhouse gases to the atmosphere are
balanced by anthropogenic removals over a specified
period. Where multiple greenhouse gases are involved,
the quantification of net zero emissions depends on the
climate metric chosen to compare emissions of different
gases (such as global warming potential, global
temperature change potential, and others, as well as the
chosen time horizon)".
NOx
Nitrogen oxides. These gases are released mainly during
combustion and c
ause acidification.
Renewable resource
A natural resource which is replenished by natural
proc
esses at a rate comparable to, or faster than, its rate
of consumption by humans or other users. The term covers
perpetual resources such as solar radiation, tides, winds
and hydroelectricity as well as fuels derived from organic
matter (bio-based fuels).
SO2
Sulfur dioxide. This gas is formed during the combustion
of fos
sil fuels and causes acidification.
VOC
Volatile organic compounds. The term covers a wide range
of chemica
l compounds, such as organic solvents, some of
which can be harmful.
Water use and water consumption
Water use includes water used for 'once-through cooling'
that is returned
 to the original water source after use. Water
consumption is the portion of water used that is not
returned to the original water source after being withdrawn.
PROFIT
General
In calculating financial  profitability ratios, use is made of
the average of the opening and closing values of balance
sheet items in the year under review.
The financial indicators per ordinary share are calculated
on the basis of the average number of ordinary shares
outstanding (average daily number). In calculating
Shareholders' equity per ordinary share, however, the
number of shares outstanding at year-end is used.
In calculating the figures per ordinary share and the 'net
profit as a percentage of average Shareholders' equity
available to holders of ordinary shares', the amounts
available to the holders of cumulative preference shares are
deducted from the profits and from Shareholders' equity.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 251 www.dsm.comAdjusted net operating free cash flow
The c a
sh flow from operating activities, corrected for the
cash flow of the APM adjustments, minus the cash flow of
capital expenditures and drawing rights.
Capital employed
The total of the carrying amount of intangible assets and
propert
y, plant and equipment, inventories, trade
receivables and other receivables, less trade payables and
other current liabilities.
Capital expenditure
This includes all investments in intangible assets and
propert
y, plant and equipment.
Disposals
This includes the disposa l of intangible assets and property,
plant and equipment as well as the disposal of participating
interests and other securities.
Earnings befor e interest, tax, depreciation and amortization
(EBITDA)
EBITDA is the sum of operating  profit plus depreciation and
amortization. Adjusted EBITDA is the EBITDA adjusted for
material items of profit or loss coming from acquisitions/
divestments, restructuring and other circumstances that
management deem it necessary to adjust in order to
provide clear-reporting on the developments of the
business.
Earnings per ordinary share
Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM
N.
V. minus dividend on cumulative preference shares,
divided by the average number of ordinary shares
outstanding.
High-growth economies
High-growth economies relate to the following regions:
Latin Americ
a, Middle East, Asia (excluding Japan) and
Eastern Europe.
Innovation sales
Innovation sales are defined as s ales from products and
applications that have been introduced in the last five years.
Operating working capital
The total of inventories and trade receivables, less trade
pa
yables.
Organic sales growth
Organic sales growth is the total impact of volume and
price 
/ mix. Impact of acquisitions and divestments as well
as currency impact are excluded.Return on capital employed (ROCE)
Adjusted oper
ating profit from continuing operations as a
percentage of weighted average capital employed.
Temporary vitamin effect
DSM's best estimate of the effect on sales and Adjusted
EBITDA
 of the exceptional supply disruptions in the industry
that started toward the end of 2017 and ended in the third
quarter of 2018, including derived measurements.
Total shareholder return (TSR)
Total shareholder return is capital gain plus dividend paid.
Underlying business
Sales and Adjusted EBITDA (including derived
mea
surements), corrected for DSM's best estimate of the
temporary vitamin effect.
Working capital
The total of inventories and current receivables, less current
p
ayables.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 252 www.dsm.comList of abbreviations
ADR American Depositary Receipts
AFM The Dutch Authority for the Financial Markets
API Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients
APM Alternative performance measures
CDP The new name f or  the Carbon Disclosure Project
CEFIC Conseil Européen des Fédérations de l'Industrie
Chimique 
(European Chemical Industry Council)
CGU Cash Generating Unit
COA Corporate Operational Audit department
CoBC Code of Business Conduct
COD Chemical Oxygen Demand
CPLC Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition
CRA Corporate Risk Assessment
CRP Corporate Research Program
CSD Corporate Strategy Dialogue
CSR Corporate Social Responsibility
DHA Docosahexaenoic Acid
DNP DSM Nutritional Products
DSGC Dutch Sustainable Growth Coalition
DSP DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals
EBA Emerging Business Area
EBIT Earnings Before Interest and Taxes (Operating
Pr
ofit)
EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation
and Amortization
EEI
Energy Efficiency Improvement
EP
A Eicosapentaenoic Acid
EPS Earnings per share
EVP Executive Vice President
FIFO First in, first out
FTE
Full-time equivalent
FVTPL Fair value through profit  and loss
FVOCI Fair value other comprehensive income
GHG Greenhouse gas
GHGE Greenhouse gas emissions
GMO Genetically Modified Org anisms
GRI Global Reporting Initiative
IAS International Accounting StandardsIASB International Accounting Standards Board
ICF Internal Control Framework
IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretation
Committ
ee
ILO International Labour Organization
IP Intellectual Property
LCA Life Cycle Assessment
LoR Letter of Representation
LTI Long-Term Incentive
LWC Lost Workday Case
NCI Non-controlling interests
NGO Non-Governmental Organization
NPS Net Promoter Score
OCI Other Comprehensive Income
OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Dev
elopment
PDN Stichting Pensioenfonds DSM Nederland
PPA Purchase Price Allocation
PRA Process Risk Assessment
PSI Process Safety Incident
PV Photovoltaic
R&D Research & Development
ROCE Return on Capital Employed
SDG Sustainable Development Goal
SHE Safety, Health and Environment
SHIBOR Shanghai Interbank Offered Rate
SPP Sustainable Procurement Program
STI Short-Term Incentive
SUN Scaling Up Nutrition Movement
TCFD Taskforce for Climate-related Financial
Disclosur
es
TSR Total Shareholder Return
UN United Nations
VOC Volatile Organic Compound
WBCSD World Business Council for Sustainable
Dev
elopment
WEF World Economic Forum
WFP United Nations World Food Programme
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 253 www.dsm.comDSM – Bright Science. Brighter Living.™  
Royal DSM is a global, purpose-led, science-based company 
active in Nutrition, Health and Sustainable Living. DSM’s purpose is to create brighter lives for all. DSM addresses with its products and solutions some of the world’s biggest challenges while simultaneously creating economic, environmental and societal value for all its stakeholders – customers, employees, shareholders, and society at large. DSM delivers innovative solutions for human nutrition, animal nutrition, personal care and aroma, medical devices, green products and applications, and new mobility and connectivity. DSM and its associated companies deliver annual net sales of about €10 billion with approximately 23,000 employees. The company was founded in 1902 and is listed on Euronext Amsterdam. More information can be found at www.dsm.com.
© 2020 Royal DSM. All rights reserved.
Questions about or feedback on 
this Report can be addressed to:
Royal DSM
P.O. Box 65006401 JH HeerlenNetherlands
T + 31 (0)45 578 8111
E media.contact@dsm.com
W  www .dsm.com
For printing of this Report 100% biological ink 
and FSC-paper was used. This Report is printed 
carbon neutral.
