Royal DSM Integrated 
Annual Report 2021
Creating brighter lives for all
NUTRITION  • HEALTH • BIOSCIENCERoyal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  1 3 
4 Table of contents 
Key data 
Co-CEO letter 
Our
 approach to the Sustainable Development 
Goals  7 
12 
12 
14 
25 Report  by the Managing Board 
Purpose 
Strategy 
Case studies 
Stakeholders 37 
People  51 
Planet  65 
Profit 83 
91 
91 
105 
112 Review  of business 
Nutrition 
Materials 
Innovation 
Corporate Activities 117 
118 
118 
119 Reporting policies 
Financial and reporting policies 
Non-financial reporting policy 
Corporate
 governance and risk management 122 
Corporate governance 122 
Dutch Corporate Governance Code 127 
Governance framework 127 
DSM Code of Business Conduct 132 
Risk management 136 
What still went wrong in 2021 144 
Supervisory Board and Managing Board 
Royal DSM147 Statements of the Managing Board 149 
150 
151 
159 
175 
180 Report  by the Supervisory Board 
Supervisory Board Report
 
Remuneration report 2021
 
Information on 
the DSM share 
Sustainability statements 
Notes  to the Sustainability statements 186 
197 
197 
205 Consolidated financial statements 
Summary of significant accounting policies 
Consolidated 
financial statements 
Notes to the consolidated financial 
statements 
of Royal DSM 211 
Parent  company financial statements 268 
Notes  to the parent company financial 
statements 270 
Other  information 278 
Independent auditor’s report 278 
Assurance report of the independent auditor 289 
Special statutory rights 293 
Important dates 294 
295 DSM figures: five-year summary 
Explanation  of some concepts and ratios 300 
List of abbreviations 307  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  2  Forward -looking statements  
This document may contain forward -looking statements with respect to DSM's future performance and position. Such statements are 
based on current expectations, estimates and projections by DSM and information currently available to the company. Examples of 
forward -looking statements include statements made or implied about the company's strategy, estimates of sales growth, financial 
results, cost savings and future developments in its existing businesses as well as the impact of future acquisitions, and th e company's 
financial position. These statements can be management estimates based on information provided by specialized agencies or adv isors.  
DSM cautions readers that such statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict an d therefore it should be 
understood that many factors can cause the company's actual performance and position to differ materially from these statemen ts. These 
factors include, but are not limited to, macro -economic, market and business trends and conditio ns, competition, legal claims, the 
company's ability to protect intellectual property, changes in legislation, changes in exchange and interest rates, changes i n tax rates, 
pension costs, raw material and energy prices, employee costs, the implementation o f the company's strategy, the company's ability to 
identify and complete acquisitions and to successfully integrate acquired companies, the company's ability to realize planned  
divestments, savings, restructuring or benefits, the company's ability to ident ify, develop and successfully commercialize new products, 
markets or technologies, economic and/or political changes and other developments in countries and markets in which DSM opera tes. 
Additional factors that could cause results to differ materially fro m those described in the forward -looking statements can be found in 
the 'Risk Management' section . 
As a result, DSM's actual future performance, position and/or financial results may differ materially from the plans, goals a nd 
expectations set forth in suc h forward -looking statements. DSM has no obligation to update the statements contained in this document, 
unless required by law. The English -language version of this document is leading.  
   
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  3  Key data  
Key data1 
 2021  2020  
People    
Workforce at 31 December (headcount)  21,358   23,127   
Female:male ratio²  30:70   29:71  
Total employee benefit costs (in € million)  1,810   1,848   
Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries (per 100 DSM employees and contractor employees)  0.22  0.24  
Employee Engagement Index (in %)  76  76  
Planet    
Primary energy use (in PJ)  21.4  21.5  
Energy Efficiency Improvement (in %, year -on-year)  6.0  5.7  
Greenhouse gas emissions, market -based (scope 1 + 2, in CO₂ equivalents, x million tons)  1.2  1.2  
Greenhouse gas scope 1 + 2 cumulative absolute reduction (in %, baseline 2016)  27  25  
Water withdrawal for non -once -through -cooling (x million m³)  26  24  
Brighter Living Solutions (as % of running business)  64  63  
Profit (in € million)    
Net sales from continuing operations  9,204   8,106   
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations³  1,814  1,534   
EBITDA from continuing operations  1,702  1,368   
Adjusted operating profit from continuing operations (EBIT)³  1,139  929  
Operating profit from continuing operations (EBIT)  1,021  662  
Net profit for the year  1,680   508  
Adjusted net operating free cash flow from continuing operations³  949  872  
Capital expenditure, cash based  570  585  
Dividend for DSM shareholders (based on profit appropriation)  438⁴ 420  
Net debt  1,014   2,577  
Shareholders' equity  9,318   7,399   
Total assets  16,013   14,346   
Capital employed  11,012   10,557   
Market capitalization at 31 December⁵  34,608   25,545   
Per ordinary share in €    
Net earnings  9.68  2.91  
Dividend  2.50⁴  2.40  
Financial ratios (%)    
Sales to high -growth economies / net sales (continuing operations)  46  44  
Innovation sales / net sales (continuing operations)  19  21  
Adjusted EBITDA margin (continuing operations)³  19.7  18.9  
Average working capital / annualized net sales (continuing operations)  20.2  22.3  
ROCE (continuing operations)³  11.1  10.4  
Gearing (net debt / equity plus net debt)  9.7  25.6  
Equity / total assets  58.7  52.2  
Cash provided by operating activities / Adjusted EBITDA³  77.5  90.5  
1 For definitions, see Explanation of some concepts and ratios . 
2 For the indexes based on age, nationalities, gender, inflow and outflow, the companies that are not integrated into the HR sy stems 
(approx. 6% of the total workforce) are not taken into account.  
3 In presenting and discussing DSM ’s financial position, operat ing results and cash flows, DSM (like many other publicly 
listed  companies) uses certain Alternative performance measures  (APMs) not defined by IFRS and referred to as ‘Adjusted ’. These 
APMs are used because  they are an important measure of DSM ’s business development  and DSM ’s management performance. A full 
reconciliation of  IFRS performance measures to the APMs is given in  Note 2 of the Consolidated financial statements . 
4 Subject to approval by the Annual Genera l Meeting of Shareholders.  
5 Source: Bloomberg.  
  Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  4 Co-CEO letter  
Dear reader,  
If 2020 had been an eventful year for us all worldwide, the level of challenge remained unchanged in 2021. At DSM, we dealt w ell 
with the volatility of our operating environment in the face of the continuing COVID -19 pandemic, maintaining supp lies to our 
customers despite widespread supply chain and logistic s disruptions. The spirit of ‘One DSM’ was stronger than ever. We are very 
proud and thankful that all around the world, our employees demonstrated resilience, initiative, flexibility and te amwork in 
dealing with this demanding environment and at the same time cared for the safety and well -being of colleagues, customers and 
partners. And this was achieved in a year that was also full of important projects and changes linked to the further sha ping of 
DSM’s future.   
Accelerating our strategic journey to become a focused Health, Nutrition & Bioscience company  
In September 2021, we took an important strategic decision to focus our resources and capabilities to address the urgent soci etal 
and environmental challenges linked to the way the world produces and consumes food. With a growing global population, the 
world is facing multiple and interconnected food system challenges that impact the health and wellbeing of people, animals, a nd 
the plane t. Advances in digital technology and bioscience offer realistic, scalable solutions to tackle these challenges, creating 
new markets and innovation opportunities. With our strong combination of scientific competences and a growing portfolio of 
nutrition a nd health solutions, we are ideally positioned to capture these opportunities.  Our Health, Nutrition  & Bioscience 
strategy is underpinned by our ‘global products, local solutions’ business model and complemented by our growing 
competences in the rapidly em erging area of precision & personalization.  
In view of our new strategic priorities, we simplified our operating structure and reorganized our Health, Nutrition & Biosci ence 
activities into three Business Groups  as of 1 January 2022 , each with clear opportunities to benefit the health of people and the 
health of the planet, underpinning our growth plans. In line with our ambition to have a meaningful impact on improving the 
world’s food systems, we are proud to have also announced a series of measurable new commitments related to Health for 
People, Health for the Planet and Healthy Livelihoods, as we strongly believe that with capability also comes responsibility.   
Our ambition to become the global leader in Health, Nutrition & Biosci ence, and to contribute to the food system transformation, 
requires huge efforts and therefore laser -like focus. This is why we took the carefully considered decision to review the strategic 
options for both our Engineering Materials and Protective Materia ls businesses, including a possible change in ownership. We are 
very proud of these two excellent Materials businesses, and they deserve the best possible environment in which to thrive and  
help drive the important shifts to a bio -based and circular econom y that will underpin their continued success.  
Very good 2021 financial performance  
We delivered a strong full -year financial performance as we continued to successfully navigate dynamic market conditions, 
including global supply chain and logistics disrupt ions. Both Nutrition and Materials realized strong results, reflecting the quality 
of these businesses. On a continuing operations basis, our group sales were up 14% and Adjusted EBITDA was up 18%. Nutrition 
sales were up 10%, and Adjusted EBITDA was up 8%  as the business demonstrated its operational performance and reliability as 
a supplier throughout the year, strengthening its customer relationships. Materials saw an exceptionally strong performance, 
with a recovery in Protective Materials and high deman d for Engineering Materials leading to an increase in sales and Adjusted 
EBITDA of 27% and 60% respectively. Inflationary pressures, especially toward the end of the year, required appropriate prici ng 
actions, of which the first positive effects were seen in the fourth quarter. Ultimately we realized an Adjusted Net Operating Free 
Cash Flow from continuing operations of  €949 million, up 9%.  
Co-CEO letter  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  5 Continuing progress on People and Planet targets  
Our people  showed remarkable  resilience as we continued to adapt our ways of working to the COVID -19 pandemic 
circumstances either by supporting remote and hybrid working or by establishing safe working environments in our 
laboratories and plants. In line with our culture and our phi losophy of hybrid working we will build a new, highly 
sustainable, modern and inspiring head office in Maastricht (Netherlands). In terms of safety, we are pleased with an 
improvement in the  Frequency Index  of DSM Recordable Injuries to 0.2 2 from 0.24 in 2020, achieving our target level of less 
than 0.24 . We continue to take action on our ambition to make our company fully incident - and injury -free. It was also 
encouraging to  see that in such an eventful year, overall employee engagement remained at the high level of 76% and 
many associated indicators in the Employee Engagement Survey saw an increase.  Looking at Inclusion & Diversity, the 
Executive Committee is now 40% female,  the Management Board and Supervisory Board are now both 50% female, and 
progress was made on improving the representation of women (23% female executives) and under -represented 
nationalities at executive level (31%). We developed new ambitious Inclusion & Diversity commitments for the period 2022 –
2025.   
On Planet , we remained well on track  in terms of our greenhouse gas ( GHG) emissions reduction,  energy  efficiency and 
purchased renewable electricity targets in 2 021. We also accelerated our Science Based Target for GHG emissions reduction from 
30% to 50% by 2030. This step -up provides a firm foundation for DSM to achieve net -zero by 2050. We doubled our internal 
carbon price from €50 to €100/t CO 2eq and signed an additional power purchase agreement whereby all our electricity needs in 
the USA became 100% renewable in 2021. We are therefore well positioned to exceed our target of meeting 75% of our global 
electricity needs from renewable sources by 2030 and to reach  100% at the earliest possibility. We received a double A rating on 
Climate and Water from CDP. And in 2021, an encouraging 64% of our total sales came from our Brighter Living Solutions – 
products that have a better environmental and/or social impact than  mainstream solutions.  
Relentless execution of our strategy  
Our strategy  served us very well in 2021. It helped us to set our priorities in order to drive organic growth, especially in view of 
the rapidly changing circumstance s brought about by the COVID -19 pandemic. It also helped us make the right capital allocation 
choices, including the selection of acquisition targets and the development of our Health, Nutrition & Bioscience portfolio.  
We made four important acquisitions: Midori in Animal Nutrition & Health; First Choice Ingredients and Vestkorn Milling in Food 
& Beverages; and the Flavor & Fragrance bio -based intermediates business of Amyris in Personal Care & Aroma. We progressed 
as per plan with the integration of the Er ber businesses, and we completed the sale of our Resins & Functional Materials and 
associated businesses for an equity value of €1.6 billion.  
We expanded our capabilities in the field of precision & personalization with, for example, the launch of the sta rt-up Hologram 
Sciences, a consumer -facing company providing consumers with personalized solutions to manage their health. Meanwhile, we 
also launched Sustell™, an intelligent sustainability service that supports precision animal farming.  
We also executed on our platform -based approach to driving innovation, resulting in good progress for our pipeline of exciting 
new products and solutions. Bovaer®, our innovative feed ingredient for reducing enteric methane emissions in ruminants, 
received market approval in Brazil and Chile and a positive EFSA opinion in the European Union. Bovaer® also formed the basis 
of collaborations with New Zealand dairy co -operative Fonterra and with JBS, one of the world’s largest food companies. We also 
announced plans to create l arge-scale production capacity for Bovaer® by constructing a new plant at our site in Dalry ( UK), with 
the support of Scottish Enterprise. Our EVERSWEET ™ stevia sweetener was successfully launched by a number of  customers, and 
we made good progress with our omega -3-rich algal oil Veramaris®. We launched ampli -D®, our fast -acting form of vitamin D for 
dietary supplements. We also laid the foundation stone of our future state -of-the-art Health & Nutrition Innovatio n Campus in 
Kaiseraugst (Switzerland).  
Thank you  
The year 2021 saw the retirement of two important figures  for DSM  who have made a huge contribution to our company. Rob 
Routs, Chair of our Supervisory Board since 2010 , retired in May 2021. Under  Rob’s  guidance , DSM continued the bold and 
progressive restructuring of its portfolio and its evolution into the purpose -led, performance -driven company it is today.  Rob’s 
successor is Thomas Leysen, who originally joined the Supervisory Board in 2020.  Chris Goppel sroeder, President and CEO of DSM 
Nutritional Products , retired in April 2021  after a long and successful career in the company during which he developed this Co-CEO letter  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  6 business into a world leader in health through nutrition. We would like to express our deep gratitude to both Rob and Chris, and 
to wish them both the very best for the future.  
Our new organization , which was announced in September,  came into effect on 1 January 202 2 and was accompanied by a 
realignment of our lead ership structure , with a new Executiv e Committee reflecting the establishment of three new Business 
Groups. We are now ready for the next step in our strategic journey , accelerating the growth of our company in Health, Nutrition 
& Bioscience . We would like to thank our em ployees for everything they achieved in 2021 , and also to thank our customers, 
suppliers and shareholders for their continued trust in us  as reflected, for example, in our higher Customer NPS score . We look 
forward to the next phase of our evolution with o ptimism and confidence, ready to address  the challenges and seize the 
opportunities that lie ahead.   
Stay safe and stay healthy !  
Geraldine Matchett and Dimitri de Vreeze, Co -CEOs Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  7 Our approach to the Sustainable Development Goals  
The UN Global Goals for Sustainable Development (SDGs)  
In 2016, the United Nations launched the SDGs, a roadmap to a more  
environmentally and socially conscious and responsible world by 2030.  
At DSM, we believe that companies have a key role to play in achieving  
the SDGs. We believe that our combination of Health, Nutrition & 
Bioscience  contributes toward achieving the SDGs . 
Working on the SDGs  
With our strong  combination of scien tific competences  and our portfolio of health and nutrition solutions, we  are ideally 
positioned to contribute to, and capture the growth opportunities offered by  the urgent societal and environmental 
challenges linked to the way the world produces and consumes food. Our purpose -led, performance -driven strategy is 
based on the global megatrends and the SDGs.  In 2021, we announced our new Food System Commitments for 2030 that 
demonstrate how we contribute to a positive impact on Health for People, Health for the P lanet, and Healthy Livelihoods. 
For more information on how we contribute to food systems transformation, please see the company website . 
Our initi atives and actionable framework  comprise  three pillars:  
-Improve : we improve our own operations to do no harm  to people and planet . We optimize our own operational
impact by continually raising safety standards, promoting health and well -being in our own wo rkforce, reducing
our emissions  and improving our resilience , increasing our use of renewable energy , improving our water
consumption, and unlocking more value from limited resources
-Enable : we enable our customers  and partners  to have a positive impact by  delivering products and solutions  that
enable them to deliver sustainable and healthy solutions for the planet and society
-Advocate : we advocate in our business ecosystem for systemic change — we advocate for the future we believe in
and we fully accept our responsibilities as a corporate member of society
Our purpose and strategy  align most closely with five of the SDGs, and we show here how we approach these core SDGs. 
Information about our engagements can be found in the Sustainability statements  and throughout this Report.  
SDG 2 and SDG 3  
Through our commitments, initiatives, and ap proach, we align closest with the following SDG targets  – 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 3.2, 3.4 
and 3.9.  
The link between adequate nutrition and health has never been clearer. Diet-related non -communicable diseases 
(including diabetes, heart disease, stroke, and some cancers) has overtaken communicable diseases as the primary cause 
of deaths worldwide. At the  same time, malnutrition in its various forms affects more than 30% of the world’s population: 
more than 2.2 billion adults and children are overweight of which 770 million are obese ( Global Nutrition repo rt 2021 ), 
more than 820 million people go to bed hungry each night, and approximately two billion suffer from micronutrient 
deficiencies, or hidden hunger . 
Our approach to the Sustainable Development Goals  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  8 Our Commitments  
-We will help fill the micronutrient gap of 800 million people by 2030 through fortif ied staple foods and health
supplements that deliver a proven and cost -effective method of combating malnutrition , as well as empowering
consumers to achieve healthier diets
-We will sup port the immunity of 500 million people by 2030  by delivering essential  vitamins, minerals and other
ingredients to consumers worldwide through high -performance dietary supplements
-Together with our partners we will support the livelihoods of 500,000 smallholder farmers across value chains by
2030 – we will achieve this by sc aling up our innovative social enterprise model, Africa Improved Foods
Our initiatives  
-We create  awareness  about the benefits o f healthy diets and improved nutrition while continuing to develop new
food solutions together with our partners of the World Bus iness Council for Sustainable Development, the World
Food Programme, World Vision, UNICEF, GAIN and Sun Business Network
-It is our responsibility to obtain comprehensive information on the safe use of our products, and to make
conscious choices in the sub stance we use and produce, taking into account the whole product life cycle.
Our approach 
Improve  Enable  Advocate  
By reducing Occupational safet y 
incidents  and promoting Health & 
well-being in our own workforce, 
including good workforce nutritio n.  By supporting customers to enable 
healthy and affordable food and 
nutrition through solutions such as 
the sustainable production of 
animal proteins, plant -based 
protein foods , fortified staples  and 
public health supplements, 
immunity -supporting solutions, 
and food & beverage solutions.  
Our biomedical solutions improve 
quality of life for surgical patients . 
and improve people’s health s tatus .For healthy diets within planetary 
boundaries, in partnerships to 
address sustainable and healthy 
nutrition through partners such as 
the World Business Council for 
Sustainable Development (WBCSD)  
and the World Economic Forum  
(WEF) , and in Nutrition & Health 
initiatives , such as the UN World 
Food Programme  (WFP) , UNICEF , 
World Vision  International  and 
Scaling Up Nutrition  (SUN) . 
SDG 7 and SDG 13 
Through our commitments, initiatives, and approach, we align closest with the following SDG targets  – 7.2, 7.3, 12.2 and 12.3.  
The stability of the world’s climate is under threat. We believe there is an urgent need to take action to curb climate 
change and its irreversibly damaging effects by dramatically limiting gre enhouse gas emissions, transitioning to renewable 
energy, and adopting low -carbon emission solutions and processes.  At the same time, i t is also crucial to streng then the 
resilience and adaptive capacity of societies against intensifying climate hazards impacting people and the environment . 
The food, agriculture and forestry sectors cause at least one quarter of the worlds greenhouse gas emissions (IPCC, 2021). 
Agri-food also signifitancly impacts biodiversity loss at land and in the oceans. Transforming food systems from farm to 
fork will therefore be key to reduce environmental impacts and mitigate climate change.    
The transition to a low -carbon economy will also create business opportunities and drive growth for our innovative and 
sustainable solutions. We contribute to  the development of a low -carbon economy not just by reducing our own emissions 
but also by developing solutions to help customers and consumers to  cut theirs.  
Our approach to the Sustainable Development Goals  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  9 Our Commitments  
-We commit to reaching net -zero emissions across  our value chains by 2050 and to set us on this path, we work
with our  Science  Based Targets  (SBT),  comprising a scope 1 + 2 absolute reduction of 50% and a scope 3 intensity
reduc tion of 28% by 2030 versus baseline 2016
-We will enable double -digit on -farm livestock  emission reductions by 2030
-We will reach 150 million people with nutritious,  delicious, sustainable plant -based protein foods by 2030
-Our SBT are supported by targets of an average annual energy efficiency improvement of >1% and 75% purchased
electricity from renewable sources by 2 030
Our initiatives  
-We apply an internal carbon price of € 100/t CO 2eq on our key investments, acquisitions and in our management
reporting
Our approach  
Improve  Enable  Advocate  
Our long-term goal is net-zero 
emissions by 2050. To put us on 
track to achieve this, by 2030 we 
will reduc
e our own carbon 
footprint and  improve the 
resilience of our assets and supply 
chains. Our approach to resilience 
and adaptation, including physical 
and transition risk assessments, is 
summarized in Taskforce on 
Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD). By enabling the low -carbon 
economy through solutions that 
help customers cut emissions and 
improve society’s ability to adapt to 
climate change . These include  
products with significantly lower 
carbon footprin ts (such as 
Akulon ®), improving the 
sustainability of animal farming  
(such as Bovaer ®, which reduces 
methane emissions from cows by 
30% or more) and advancing plant -
based pr otein options  (such as 
CanolaPRO ®). For accelerate d climate action and 
building the movement for a low-
carbon, resilient economy by 
showcasing solutions and best 
practices in key climate platforms 
such as COP26 a nd through 
collaboration wit h cross domain 
initiatives such as the World  
Economic Forum (WEF) and We 
Mean Business , and leading climate 
platforms such as the Carbon  
Pricing Leadership Coalition  (CPLC), 
RE100 and GCA. 
SDG 12 
Through our commitments, initiatives, and approach, we align closest with the following SDG targets  – 12.2, 12.3, 12.4 and 
12.5. 
As the world’s population grows, the demand for Earth’s resources will only continue to rise , and with a population 
projected to grow to 9.7 billion  people by 2050, some estimates suggest we will need the equivalent of three  Planet Earths  
by then to sustain our current lifestyles. In addition, over 30% of all  food produced is either lost or wasted, representing a 
huge drain on natural resources . Considering our global economy is only 8.6% circular and planetary boundaries are 
crossed, we mus t move away from linear production and consumption systems and work together to build sustainable 
food and production systems . We are making important contributions to the development of a circular, bio -based 
economy founded on closed -loop solutions.  
Our C ommitments  
-We will improve water withdrawal efficiency in water -stressed areas by 10% by 2030 versus 2020
-We will offer a full portfolio of alternatives that contain at least 25% recycled - and/or bio -based content by 2030
in our Engineering Materials busin ess
-By 2030, at least 60% of Dyneema® fiber feedstock will be sourced from bio -based raw materials
Our approach to the Sustainable Development Goals  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  10 -We will improve our volatile  organic  carbon  (VOC) emission efficiency by 50% by 2021 (vs. 2015)
Our initiatives  
-‘Safe and sustainable by design’ is the leading principle in the development of new and better products and
processes
-We advocate for SDG 12.3 ‘Halving food loss and waste’  and we actively support our customers with reducing food
loss and waste reduction from farm to fork, for instance in the dairy, juice, meat and eggs value chains
Our approach  
Improve  Enable  Advocate  
By unlocking more value from the 
limited available resources. Water 
and our impact on biodiversity 
are important aspects of our 
continuous improvement 
mindset. We minimize the use of 
substances of concern where 
possible.  By enabling our customers to 
design safer and more circular end-
products, and minimize the use of 
finite resources.  These include our 
solutions Veramaris®  and 
CanolaPRO®, as well as bio-based 
and recycled-based solutions such 
as Akulon® RePurposed and bio-
based Dyneema®. For the transition from a linear to a 
circular and bio -based economy  
through global platforms such as 
the World Business Council for 
Sustainable Development  (WBCSD) , 
and circular economy platforms 
such as Platform for Accelerating 
the Circular Economy (PACE) , Circle 
Economy  and the Ellen MacArthur 
Foundation . Our approach to the Sustainable Development Goals  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  11 Our contribution across the  SDGs  
Our purpose -led, performance -driven strategy is based on global megatrends and the SDGs. We align our approach with 
five ‘core’ SDGs : SDG 2 and SDG 3 , SDG 7 and SDG 13  and SDG 12 . In addition to these  ‘core’ SDGs, we believe that we can  
also apply our Improve, Enable and Advocate approach to a varying extent across all the SDGs. Below we indi cate our 
estimated contribution in respect of all the SDGs.  
Improve  Enable  Advocate  
1 No Poverty  ●● ● ●●
2 Zero Hunger  ● ●●● ●●●
3 Good Health and Well -Being  ●● ●●● ●●●
4 Quality Education  ● ● ●●
5 Gender Equality  ●● ● ●●●
6 Clean Water and Sanitation  ● ●● ●
7 Affordable and Clean Energy  ●●● ● ●●●
8 Decent Work and Economic Growth  ●● ● ●●
9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure  ● ●● ●●
10 Reduced Inequalities  ●● ●● ●●
11 Sustainable Cities and Communities  ● ●● ●●
12 Responsible Consumption and Production  ●● ●●● ●●●
13 Climate Action  ●● ●● ●●●
14 Life Below Water  ● ●● ●●
15 Life on Land  ● ●● ●●
16 Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions  ● ● ●●
17 Partnerships for the Goals  ●● ●● ●●●
Estimate of contribution  
●Minor ●●Moderate ●●● Major
Improve: The impact within our own operations   
Enable: Products that enable our customers to deliver sustainable products for planet and society  
Advocate: Advocating for the future we believe in and acting on our responsibilities  Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021 12 Report by the Managing Board  
Purpose  
For more than a decade, we have distinguished ourselves by embracing sustainability and providing value for all our 
stakeholders across the three dimensions of People, Planet and Profit. We have taken a decisive step as a purpose -led 
company , contributing to a brighter world for all with our science -based solutions. Our purpose is therefore fully anchored 
in our long-term purpose -led, performance -driven  Strategy .  
Our purpose is to create brighter lives for all  
As a global leader in the science behind better health and nutrition, we have the opportunity, capability, and therefore 
responsibility to apply our resources and expertise where they c an have the greatest impact. We use our bright science to 
deliver positive transformations  at scale and to create brighter lives for all.  
We aspire  to creat e value  for all our stakeholders — customers, employees, shareholders and society at large — and to 
build a stronger legacy and a brighter future for generations to come.  
We are already reaching more than 2.51 billion people worldwide  
Acting on our purpose  
We make change happen in three ways:  
-Improve : We improve our own operation s to do no harm to people and planet. We optimize our own operational
impact by continually raising safety standards, promoting health and well -being in our workforce, reducing our
emissions, improving resilience, increasing our use of renewable energy, improving our water c onsumption, and
unlocking more value from limited resources
-Enable : We enable our customers and partners to have a positive impact by delivering products  and solutions
that enable them  to deliver sustainable and healthy solutions for the planet and society
-Advocate : We advocate  in our business ecosystem for systemic change — we advocate for the future we believe in
and we fully accept our responsibilities as a corporate member of society
1 Lives Reached is a measure of the estimated number of consumers reached each year via products of customer s and other third 
parties which contain DSM products and solutions. This estimate is based on key market insights relating to market share, usa ge 
patterns and product composition. Mathematical modeling is used to eliminate doub le counting. For more information, see Explanation 
of some concepts and ratios . Report by the Managing Board – Purpose  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  13 We are convinced that t he private sector as a whole needs  to deliver value for all stakeholders — not just employees, 
customers and shareholders, but the world ’s communities and the individuals who live in them. We feel this responsibility 
and therefore take an integrated approach  to act upon our purpose by redu cing our negative impact and increas ing our  
positive impact through the implementation of a range of internal and external initiatives . These include:  
-increasing our Science Based Targets  to deliver an absolute reduction of greenhouse gas  (GHG) emissions from our
operations (scope 1 + 2) by 50% by 2030  versus our 2016 baseline, providing a firm foundation for DSM to achieve
net-zero by 2050
-making a set of measurable Food System Commitments  covering Health for People, Health for the Planet , and
Healthy Livelihoods. These new commitments support our ambition to have a positive and meaningful impact on
the world’s food systems and contribute to the achievement of the UN Sustainable Development Goals  2, 3, 12 and
13
An overview of these init iatives can be found in Our approach to the Sustainable Development Goals  and throughout this 
Report. Examples of our purpose -led solutions are provided  in the Case  studies  in this Report . 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  14 Strategy 
At a glance  
-+13% Organic sales growth v ersus +2% in 2020
-+18%  Adjusted EBITDA growth from continuing operations versus 2020, with Nutrition + 8% and Materials + 60%
-+9% Adjusted net operating free cash flow growth from continuing operations versus 2020
-~23%1,2 GHG scope 1 + 2 reduction – cumulative structural improvement (baseline 2016)  versus ~ 18% in 2020
-0.22 Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries versus 0.24 in 2020
-76% Employee Engagement Index versus 76% in 2020
Strategy 
Focus on Health, Nutrition & B ioscience  
In September 2021 , we announced our decision to accelerate our journey toward  becoming a company focused on  Health, 
Nutrition & Bioscience , using  our resources and capabilities to address  the urgent societal and environmental challenges 
linked to the way the world produces and consumes food.   
In the face of  multiple systemic and interconnected food system challenges that impact the health and well -being of 
people, animals, and the planet , the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Report  of 2021 warns o ur world  is 
rapidly approaching critical and irreversible tipping points. Climate change is already creating considerable  challenges for 
food systems worldwide, while at the same ti me food production remains one of the largest contributors to environmental 
degradation . Advance s in digital technology and bioscience offer realistic scalable solutions to tackle these challenges, 
creating new markets and innovation opportunities . With ou r strong combination of scientific competences and growing 
1 All data presented in People and Planet are subject to the Non-financial reporting policy .  
2 In total, our absolute reduction of scope 1 + 2  greenhouse gas emissions was 2 7% versus the 2016 baseline.  
Report by the Managing Board – Strategy  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  15 portfolio of nutrition and health solutions, we are  ideally positioned  to capture these opportunities  and create value for 
people and planet as well as our business . 
We underpinned our transformation by creating three market -focused Business Groups in which we organize our Health, 
Nutrition & Bioscience  activities  with effect from 1 January  2022:  
-Animal Nutrition & Health
-Health, Nutrition & Care
-Food & Beverage
Each Business Group  will have clear opportunities to benefit  the health of people  and the health of the planet , 
underpinning our growth plans. Each will be much more closely  aligned with its respective customers and, through the 
integration of activities currently performed by DSM’s various scientific centers,  will be fully equipped to rapidly develop 
impactful , science -based innovation s (for more detail, see  Innovation ). We will continue to make acquisitions that 
strengthen and develop critical capabilities to support our organic growth .   
At the same time , we have started a review of strategic options  for our Materials businesses , including a possible change 
of ownership.  For more detail, see the section on Materials . 
Our business model for growth: global products, local solutions, and precision & personalization  
Our Health, Nutrition & Bioscience  strategy is underpinned by our ‘global products, local solutions ’ business model and 
complemented by our growing competences in the rapidly emerging area of precision & personalization.  
Our business model for growth: global products, local solutions, precision & personalization  
Our leading , and growing, globa l product portfolio  includes vitamins, nutritional lipids, carotenoids, minerals,  eubiotics , 
enzymes and yeasts, as well as texturants, flavors and cultures . Our acquisition of First Choice Ingredients in 2021 added 
dairy -based savory flavorings for taste and functional solutions across a wide range of applications , while our acquisition 
of the flavor and fragrance (F&F) bio -based intermediates business of Amyris, Inc . expanded our  Aroma portfolio . 
Bovaer ® and our partnerships Avansya and Veramaris have recently been added through our own innovation efforts.  
Report by the Managing Board – Strategy  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  16 Delivering local so lutions across all regions, our end-market focus allows us to better understand market needs, 
enable  solution selling , and open up  innovation  headroom  – for example, more relevant solutions supporting early life 
nutrition and dietary supplements in Health,  Nutrition & Care.  With a significant and diverse premix footprint , together 
with superior formulations and delivery systems and increasing competences , in analytics and diagnostics, we are able to 
develop innovative and sustainable local solutions  for our  customers around the world.  
Drawing on  our emerging  capabilities in digitization, we are swiftly developing an additional dimension to our future 
growth : precision & personalization . Developments in data science and bioscience are opening up exciting opportunities to 
address challenges in health and nutrition. Leveraging our reputation, science -based competences and global customer 
base, we seek to create digital solutions that deliv er unprecedented levels of precision. This new standard in precision has 
the capability to deliver more targeted and therefore, effective health solutions as well as measurable , sustainability 
benefits. Examples of this approach include:  
-Hologram Sciences,  Inc., our personalized nutrition venture, which brings together all the necessary capabilities
to develop end -to-end turnkey solutions that are commercially validated with consumers
-Sustell™ , a first -of-its-kind intelligent sustainability service that del ivers accurate, simple and actionable farm -
level solutions to reduce the environmental footprint and improve the profitability of animal farming
-Verax™ , a data -driven, blood -based, biomarker -screening service that uses analytics to deliver a deeper and
more accurate understanding of the health and performance of animals
Our focus in Animal  Nutrition & Health  
Addressing the United Nations  Sustainable Development Goals 2  (Zero Hunger) , 3 (Good Health and Well -Being) , 12 
(Responsible Consumption and Productio n), 13 (Climate Action) , and 14  (Life Below Water) , we have identified six 
sustainability platforms  that address the major challenges facing the animal farming industry today. Our ambition is to 
radically improve the sustainability of animal farming  worldw ide, creating innovative and sustainable solutions that will 
deliver significant value for our customers and at the same time for our company. These are:  
-Improving the lifetime performance of farm animals
-Making efficient use of natural resources
-Reducing emissions from livestock
-Helping tackle antimicrobial resistance
-Reducing reliance on marine resources
-Improving the nutritional quality of meat, milk, fish and eggs, while reducing food loss and waste
With our unmatched portfolio of products an d services, we are in a leading position to address these challenges through 
solutions that include, for example:  
-algal -based omega -3 for fish feed ( Veramaris® )
-methane -reducing feed additives for cows ( Bovaer® )
-mycotoxin absorbers  to prevent fungal contam ination in animal feed
-a comprehensive eubiotics  portfolio to displace use of antibiotics as growth promoters
-data-driven decision -making tools for farmers, such as Sustell ™, and for veterinarians and animal health
practitioners, such as Verax ™
-We continue  to build specialist competences  to pursue new health solutions and support feed solutions for
additional species, improve the end -to-end experience for the customer, and invest in our direct business -to-
farmer and overall go -to-market capabilities.
Our n ew precision services  business , meanwhile, aims  to improve sustainability, animal health and welfare , and the 
profitability of animal production. Precision services uses data analysis and advanced diagnostic tools to measure and 
pinpoint specific nutritional, health and environmental issues to tackle challenges and offer bespoke solutions . Report by the Managing Board – Strategy  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  17  Our focus in H ealth, Nutrition & Care  
In Health, Nutrition & Care , we address the United Nations  Sustainable Development Goals 2  (Zero Hunger) , 3 (Good Health 
and Well -Being)  and 12 (Sustainable Consumption and Production) . As a leading provider of specialty nutritional and 
personal care ingredients  and biomedical materials  focusing on immunity , gut, brain and skin health, and solutions for 
orthope dics and cardiovascular, we aim to help keep the world’s growing population healthy.  Founded on our innovative 
and sustainability -focused competences , our role as a fully integrated provider of solutions allows our customers to focus 
fully on the branding and commerciali zation of their products  and creates opportunities for our own B2C business, i -
Health .  
Some of the key innovation focus  areas include:  
- Preventive health and immunity  through the provision of micronutrients such as vitamins C and D , and  omeg a-3s, 
together with innovative solutions that include our algal lipids and ampli -D®, our rapid -acting and high-potency  
form of vitamin D  
- Human milk oligosaccharides (HMOs) , where w e are building an exciting innovation roadmap to address currently 
unmet needs in early life nutrition, dietary supplements  and medical nutrition  together with promising potential 
applications in pet foods  
- Personalized nutrition , which is a rapidly developing growth area spearheaded by our  venture Hologram Sciences , 
Inc., where we work closely with leading start -ups in which we have already invested, such as Tespo and AVA  
 
In addition, we are continuing our long -term commitment t o champion efforts to increase the availability of micronutrient -
rich food  in countries with the world’s most vulnerable communities  through various partnerships , such as with the United 
Nations World Food Programme ( WFP), UNICEF and  World Vision, as well as our joint venture  Africa Improved Foods (AIF).  
Our focus in Food & Beverage  
In Food & Beverage , we address the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 2 (Zero Hunger), 3 (Good Health and 
Well-Being)  and 12 (Sustainable Consu mption and Production) . The food & beverage  market is subject to rapid change, 
driven by evolving consumer needs  and expectations regarding delicious, nutritious  and sustainable food choices . The 
challenge for our customers, the food & beverage producers, is to anticipate these changes and respond by developing and 
delivering on-trend, differentiating products  faster than their competitors. Our customers are therefore seeking:  
- products that de liver specific taste and texture attributes  
- products that deliver improved nutritional value and the associated health benefits  
- approaches that deliver more resource -efficient and sustainable food production  
 
In this market, we are well positioned to offer  sustainable solutions that address taste, texture and health  in an integrated 
way, with our  unique and extensive portfolio  of global products  (comprising  dairy cultures as well as  enzymes for 
applications across dairy,  baking  and beverages ; coatings and preservation systems ; yeast extracts , process flavors and 
texturizing  hydrocolloids ; and vitamins, minerals and nutritional lipids ) and our deep application expertise in our core 
end-market segments , based on our extensive biotechnological com petences.   
To strengthen this proposition  in Food & Beverage, we will continue to  deepen our integrated application know -how, 
broaden our global product portfolio , combine ingredient and application innovation , and maximize  opportunities for 
inorganic grow th. 
An example of our ingredient and application innovation is CanolaPRO ®, a sustainable plant -based protein source  based 
on rapeseed. This innovation was reinforced in 2021 by our acquisition of Vestkorn Milling, a leading European producer of 
pea- and bean -derived ingredients for plant -based protein products . This represents  a new building -block in our portfolio 
of solutions for meat and dairy alternatives.  Report by the Managing Board – Strategy  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  18 Another example of product innovation  is Avansya , our 50/50  partnership  with Cargill to bring our great -tasting, zero-
calorie, cost -effective, non -artificial sweetener  EVERSWEET ™ to market  at scale.  
Our focus in Materials  
Following the sale of our Resins & Functional Materials businesses to Covestro AG, our Materials activities now consist of 
DSM Engineering Materials  and DSM Protective Materials . These are both high -quality businesses  with a strong growth and 
earnings potential .  
In view of our accelerate d strategic journey to become a focused Health, Nutrit ion & Bioscience  company , these two 
excellent Materials businesses may not be able to achieve  their full potential in driving the important industrial shift to a 
bio-based and circular economy  under our ownership . Going forward , the Materials Business Group s will therefore be 
managed largely on a stand -alone basis . We are reviewing strategic options  for both Materials businesses, including a 
possible change of ownership . 
Meanwhile, we will continue to develop our high-growth and  high-margin  specialty Materials businesses. These focus on 
three growth platforms : Improved Health & Living, Green Products & Applications, and New Mobility & Connectivity.   
Our focus in Innovation  
Innovation is what transforms our ‘Bright Science ’ into ‘Brighter Living ’. We aim to develop novel,  sustainable solutions  by 
leveraging an enterprise -wide approach that utilizes our unique scientific capabilities and our  profound understanding of  
health an d nutrition for both people and animals . Supported by a global network of advanced  center s of biotechnology 
and chemistry as well as strategic partnerships, this enables us to develop breakthrough innovations with proven health 
benefits . 
Innovation sales  – defined as products and applications that have been introduced during the previous five years – have 
also improved our profitability, delivering higher margins than the average of our running business. We continuously 
invest in innovation in order  to mai ntain  the contribution from resulting sales at around 20%  of total sales , which we 
consider to be a healthy proportion in view of the overall balance of our product portfolio and product life cycles.  
Innovation as an enterprise -wide endeavor  
Our long -term success require s us to be able to serve our customers with  innovations that are grounded in market 
insights  and enabled by digital technology and bioscience  as well as best -in class production and launch capabilities . In 
order to achieve this, we regard in novation as an enterprise -wide endeavor whereby those who invent, make and sell have 
a shared responsibility. This results in full alignment from ideation to commercialization and maximizes the opportunities 
for our R&D to make a positive difference for pe ople, planet, and profit. By encouraging an environment which supports 
both the short -term needs of our businesses today, and the longer -term requirements for breakthrough advances in 
science, we create an engine for growth, especially as we begin to reali ze the next frontier of our business model : precision 
& personalization . 
Driving our innovation pipeline through four growth themes  
Our platform -based approach helps us  to deliver  a business -anchored pipeline of innovations that are aligned with our 
future strategic needs and support our growth ambitions. We have four overarching growth themes  that address  major  
global societal, technological, and environmental trends  which in turn  inform our innovation platforms .  Report by the Managing Board – Strategy  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  19 Growth themes and innovation platforms  
We focus on four growth themes  – Pathways, Proteins, Prevention  and Precision : 
Pathways:  using our base strength in chemistry and biotechnology to manufacture ingredients with a bett er environmental 
footprint. Through our strengths and advances in biotechnology we can make innovative use of  microorganisms to 
produce ingredients and intermediates  – for example , the innovation platform of Sustainable Lipids, which includes our 
algal-based omega -3 Veramaris® for more sustainable aquaculture . 
Proteins:  solutions that reduce the footprint of animal protein production  and meet the growing demand for meat , fish  
and da iry alternatives  – for example, the Animal Emission Reduction platform , which includes our feed additive Bovaer®, 
which significantly reduces methane emissions from cattle, and plant -based specialty proteins such as CanolaP RO®. 
Prevention:  using our  rich p ortfolio of active ingredients  (e.g., vitamins, lipids , human milk oligosaccharides) to optimize 
health and immunity.  For example, as we learn more about  how our ingredients  modulate the gut microbiome, we 
see potential  to develop  solutions that build  resilience  to stress and disease by improving the gut microflora in people 
and animals . In the Animal Gut Health platform, for example, we have a full range of antibiotic alternatives that promote 
animal health while tackling anti -microbial resistance (AMR) . 
Precision:  digitally enabled new business models to enhance nutrition precision, ensuring the right nutrition to maximize 
health for people  and animals . An example is our personalized nutrition platform, delivered through Hologram Sciences , 
Inc., which prov ides personalized nutrition and coaching recommendations  for people . 
Delivering a long -term, purpose -led, positive impact  
Responsibility for our own footprint and care for our people  
We are  a global , purpose -led, performance -driven  Health, Nutrition & Bioscience  company . We take responsibility for our 
own footprint and  care for  our people. Over the course of recent  years , we have developed , and committed to, an 
ambitious set of goals to reduce our emissions and improve the energy efficiency of our operations world wide. Recently 
we accelerated our validated Science  Based Target for 2030 on greenhouse  gas emissions ( scope 1 + 2) versus baseline 
2016, increasing our target level from 30% to 50% . At the same time, we  reiterated our intention to source 75% of our 
electricity from renewable energy sources  by 2030.   
Report by the Managing Board – Strategy  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  20 Concurrently, we have long -held ambitious targets on employee engagement , safety  and diversity , in recognition of our 
respect for , and respons ibility toward , our colleagues around the globe. Among these, we set ourselves the target to 
achieve employee engagement  of over 75% by the end of 2021. We also set ourselves the target to have 30% of our 
executive roles  fulfilled by females by the end of 2025.  
As a company, we are  committed to create brighter lives for all. Hence our focus on Brighter Living Solutions – products 
and services that have a better environmental (ECO+) and/or social (People+) impact than mainstream solutions  through 
the entire  life cycle , from raw materials to manufacturing, end -use and disposal.  
For more details on our initiatives and progress, see People  and Planet  and Our approach to the Sustainable Development 
Goals . 
Making a positive impact on food systems  
In 2021, we announced a series of new, quantifiable commitments aimed to address urgent societal and environmental 
challenges linked t o how the world produces and consumes food by 2030. We are one of the first companies in the 
consumer ingredient sector to make our societal impact explicit through a set of measurable Food System Commitments . 
These commitments cover three areas where we b elieve we can make the greatest positive impact together with our 
business partners: Health for People, Health for Planet , and Healthy Livelihoods.  
Through investment in our (bio)science -based innovations, extensive partnerships, and advocacy activities, w e aim to help 
deliver change to ensure accessible, affordable, healthy nutrition and healthy livelihoods within planetary boundaries. Our 
new strategic Food System Commitments  by 2030 are  as follows : 
People  
-Enable the micronutrient gap to be closed  for 800 million vulnerable people
-Support the immunity of 500 million people
Planet  
-Enable double -digit on -farm livestock emission reductions
-Reach 150 million people with nutritious, sustainable plant -based protein foods
Livelihoods  
-Support the livelihoo ds of 500,000 smallholder farmers across value chains , acting  together with partners
These commitments support the UN Sustainable Development Goals 2, 3, 12 and 13. We are committed to continue to 
obtain reasonable assurance on our impact reporting , includ ing these new commitments , as we plan to report our 
progress every year in our Integrated Annual Report.  
Mid-term financial targets and cash  allocation policy  
We aim to deliver ambitious mid -term profit targets : 
-Mid-single digit % organic sales growth
-An above 20% adjusted EBITDA margin
-High-single digit % adjusted EBITDA growth
The key drivers  to deliver sustained organic sales growth are our innovation platforms , commercial synergies from recent 
acquisitions which come on top of our underlying market growth, and the continued expansion of our customer -centric 
solution offerings.  
Our cash allocation policy  has a clear order of priority for cash deploymen t: Report by the Managing Board – Strategy  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  21 -Disciplined capital expenditure for organic growth: approximately 6.5% of annual sales
-A stable, preferably rising dividend
-Disciplined M&A
-In the absence of value -creating M&A, capital to be returned to shareholders
We remain committed to maintaining a strong, investment -grade credit rating . With our dividend policy  of a stable, 
preferably rising dividend, we target an average payout of 40 –50% of adjusted earnings.  
Report on progress in 2021  
Our strategy  served us well in 202 1. It helped us to set our priorities  in order  to drive organic growth, especially in view of  
the changing circumstances brought about by the continuing COVID -19 pandemic. It also helped us make the right capital 
allocation choices, including the selection of acquisition targets and the development of our Health, Nutrition & 
Bioscience  portfolio, where appropriate.  
Highlights:  
-We accelerated our journey toward  becoming  a focused Health, Nutrition & Bioscience  company , started a review
of strategic options  for our Materials businesses , including a possible change of ownership , simplified our
operating structure , reorganizing our activities into three Business Groups , and installed a new leadership
structure to reflect our strategic vision and new organizational structure
-We acquired the Flavor & Fragrance  bio-based intermediat es business of Amyris, Inc ., Midori USA, Inc  (eubiotics ),
First Choice Ingredients , Inc. (savory flavorings) , and Vestkorn Milling  (plant -based proteins) and divested  our
Resins & Functional Materials  and associated businesses
-We made good progress on our platform -based approach to driving innovation , ensuring a healthy pipeline of
new products and solution s and made significant progress to capture the value from key innovations such as
Veramaris®, Bovaer®, EVERSWEET™ and ampli -D®
-We made pr ogress on  our purpose -led sustainability ambitions  in People and Planet
-We announced a number  of new Food System Commitments  in support of the achievement of the UN Sustainable
Development Goals 2, 3, 12 and 13
-We launched Team DSM  for the 2021 season onwa rds with the aim of galvanizing wider public action  around the
importance of the health of people and of the planet, in line with our purpose -led, performance -driven strategyReport by the Managing Board – Strategy  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  22 Progress in Sustainability : People and Planet  
At DSM, sustainability is not only our core value  and a key responsibility ; it is also a key  business driver that is fully 
engrained in our purpose, strategy, business and operations. Our approach for bringing about positive change is to 
improve, enable an d advocate . The below table provides an overview of our progress in terms of our key sustainability 
metrics:   
1 These data are subject to the Non-financial reporting policy . 
2 Strengthened to 50% by 2030 in 2021. 
3 We estimate that the effect of the underlying cumulative structural improvements in absolute GHG emissions was approximately 23% 
in 2020, versus the 2016 baseline. The total cumulative absolute reduction was 2 7%, versus the 2016 baseline . 
4 Survey of payroll  employees in October 2021, excluding recent acquisitions and divestments.  
5 Strengthened from <0.25 in 2021 . 
6 A new methodology, providing improved transparency and granularity while ensuring reporting against new and future requiremen ts 
of regulatory author ities will be applied as of January 2022 and will be provided at the publication of the half year results of 2022 . 
7 For a small percentage of sales (<0. 7 % of sales) classified as Brighter Living Solutions, the environmental impact is considered ‘best 
in class’ together with other solutions . 
We have leading positions in important ESG indices for investors: we hold a platinum sustainability medal from Eco Vadis 
putting us in the top 1% of our industry, we are  ranked among the leaders in our industry by Sustainalytics, have an AAA 
rating from MSCI, have Prime Status with ISS -ESG, and have a leading position in the rankings of Moody's ESG (formerly 
Vigeo Eiri s). 
Planet  
On Planet, we  accelerated our Science Based Target for  greenhouse gas  (GHG) reduction (scope 1 + 2) from 30 % to 50% by 2030  
versus baseline 2016 . This step -up provides a firm foundation for DSM to achieve net -zero by 2050.  Furthermore, we improved 
the environmental impact of our own operation  and remain ed well on track in terms of our GHG reduction,  energy  efficien cy and 
purchased renewable electricity targets  in 2021 .  
-The underlying structural improvement in absolute greenhouse gas reduction  from operations in 202 1 compared
to the 2016 baseline is ~ 23%, versus our target of 50% by 2030
-Energy efficiency  has improved by 6% compared to full year 20 20 versus our >1% average annual ambition.
-72% of purchased electricity  came from renewable resources  compared with 60% in 20 20, firmly on course to
achieve our interim  target of 75% by 2030 in the pursuit of 100%
This progress supports our commitment  to a long -term pathway to work toward net-zero GHG emissions  across our 
operations and value chains by 2050 . We doubled ou r internal carbon price from €50 to €100 per ton of CO 2eq and signed an 
additional power purchase agreement whereby all our electricity needs in the US became  100% renewable in 2021. We received a 
double A rating on our Climate strategy and Water stewardship by CDP, the global non-profit environmental disclosure 
platform .  
Report by the Managing Board – Strategy  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  23 We enabled  our customers to deliver more sustainable solutions  to their (end) consumers Our purpose -led innovation  
pipeline is fully aligned with our five focus SDGs.  
More about our environmental performance can be found in the Planet  section . 
People  
Our People  showed remarkable resilience as we  continued to adapt  our ways of working to the COVID -19 pandemic  
circumstances either by supporting remote and hybrid working or by establishing safe working environments in our 
laboratories and plants.  In terms of safety w e can be pleased with an improvement  in the  Frequency Index  of DSM 
Recordable Injuries to 0. 22 from 0. 24 in 20 20, achieving our target level of less than 0.24. We continue to act on our 
ambition to make our company fully incident - and injury -free. It was also encouraging to see that i n such an eventful year, 
overall employee engagement remained at the high level of 76%  and many associated indicators  in the Employee 
Engagement Survey saw an increase.  Looking at  Inclusion & Diversity, the Executive Committee is now 40% female, the  
Manage ment Board and  Supervisory Board are 50% female, and progress was made on improving the representation of 
women (23% female executives) and under -represented nationalities at executive level ( 31%). We developed new ambitious 
Inclusion and Diversity commitments for the period  2022–2025. More information can be found in the People  section.  
Brighter Living Solutions  
In 2021, 64% of our net sales , including the sales of our discontinued operations , came from products that have a better 
environmental (ECO+) and/or social (People+) impact than  mainstream solutions. We call these our Brighter Living 
Solutions (BLS) . Discontinued operations were included until divestment date, and their exclusion negatively impacts the 
overall KPI. Positive impact came from the assessment of our newly acquired HMO portfolio, and new significant 
assessments in our Nutrition business.  
Enabling increased Precision & Personalization  
The year 2021 saw the full mobilization of our Digital Nutrition Acceleration (DNA) program. Digital is no longer merely an 
enabler for our organization: it is also a strategic business driver, and the DNA pr ogram creates the digital foundation for 
key precision & personalization initiatives such as :  
-Hologram Sciences, Inc., our personalized nutrition venture, which brings together all the necessary capabilities to
develop end -to-end turnkey personalized nutr ition solutions that are commercially validated with consumers
-Sustell™, a first -of-its-kind intelligent sustainability service that delivers accurate, simple and actionable farm -
level solutions to reduce the environmental footprint and improve the profita bility of animal farming
-Verax™ , a data -driven decision -making tool that helps veterinarians, nutritionists and operations make better
decisions about their animals' health
Another important milestone delivered as part of the DNA program in 2021 was the launch  of a new customer -centric e-
commerce tool, which enabled 10% of DSM’s sales to be moved online in just a few months. We also launched the 
Analytics Academy, defining and establishing our first communities of practice for Data Science, Data Engineering and 
Cloud Engineering.  
Our sc aling -up of automation continued in 2021, with another 40 bots being delivered, bringing our total to more than 200 
and enabling the automation of numerous processes in Finance, Human Resources and Purchasing. The pandemic 
required us to  accelerate the ado ption of digital tool s and practices among our workforce and laid down the key principles 
of new ways of working that will thrive in the Next Normal. We piloted with success our digital mindset change program in 
Latin America , the Netherlands  and China by inviting employees to learn, ideate and try out digital approaches more and 
more often.   Report by the Managing Board – Strategy  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  24 Executive Committee . Top row : Dimitri de Vreeze, Geraldine Matchett  and Patricia Malarkey . Bottom row : Philip Eykerman, Helen Mets and 
Cristina Monteiro.  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  25 Case studies  
Responsible consumer choices with plant -based fish alternatives  
Opportunities to make more responsible choices  
Plant -based meat alternatives have transformed grocery store shelves and restaurant menus alike with a broad range of 
meatless options that appeal to consumer demand  for health y and sustainable diets. Now, plant -based  fish alternatives 
are catching this wave.  
There is a growing demand fo r plant -based alternatives  alongside traditional meat , fish  and dairy products, as consumers 
search for foods that deliver an authentic eating experience without compromising on taste and texture. Whether for 
personal, health or sustainability reasons, or from plain curiosity, more and more people are adding plant -based options 
to their food choices and are adopting flexitarian, vegetarian, or vegan diets. At the same time, the importance of a quality  
nutritional profile is attracting increasing recognition .  
Case studies  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  26 Today’s eco-conscious consumers are increasingly seeking o pportunities to make responsible choices  that help reduce the 
impact on  the planet’s limited resource s. Plant -based fish alternatives are emerging as an appealing option  for the rising 
number of individuals adopting flexitarian, vegetarian and vegan lifestyles . Plant-based seafood is currently  a small 
fraction of the overall plant -based meat and seafood category, accounting for less tha n 1% of sales  in the US . This market 
is developing rapidly, however, and its  potential presents a compelling prospect to  manufacturers that have the capability 
to formulate authentic, tasty and enticing plant -based  fish-alternative  products . 
Consumers looking for plant -based alternatives  to traditional fish products  are concerned about the sustainability  of the 
planet, and especially the ecosystems  of the ocean. To ensure that plant -based alternatives will resonate with eco-
conscious consumers, it is essential to o ffer comparable nutritional value  while reproducing the nuanced flavors and 
textures associated with fish and shellfish.  
Delivering taste, texture and nutritional value  
A 2020 report  by the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization ( FAO) highlighted the fact that annual global per 
capita fish consumption  had more than doubled between 1961 and 2017. Meanwhile, in the past 35 years alone, the world’s 
population has grown by more than 50%, according to FAO.  Research  shows that 84% of people in the UK  – to give just one 
country as an example – say that being environmentally friendly is important to them , and  concerns over diminishing fish 
resources  are growing.   
Consumers interested in  plant -based alternatives  are unwilling to compromise on sensory experience . Delivering attractive 
taste, texture and mouthfeel  is therefore essential.  Manufacturers , however, face a serious challenge in trying to meet the 
taste and sensory properties of traditional fish products. Most commercially available fish flavors are produced by 
processing parts of fish or shellfish . These products  consequently fail to meet vegetarian criteria and are not fully 
sustainabl e (nor are they halal or kosher ). A parallel consideration is the challenge of ensuring nutritional value  in terms 
of omega -3 content as well as vitamins and other micronutrients . Taste, texture and nutritional value all have to be 
delivered in a single pa ckage.
Case studies  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  27 Our solutions  
In 2021, we launched Maxavor®  Fish YE , a first-ever vegan, natural and 100% allergen -free flavor solution. Maxavor ® Fish YE 
has been designed to overcome common formulation challenges in the development of premium plant -based fish 
alternatives , such as vegetarian fish nuggets and  vegan fish sauce . It delivers an authentic fish taste, texture and 
mouthfeel. It can also help to amplify flavor in actual fish-based products.  
Maxavor ® Fish YE is a vailable in two profiles, depending on the application: one for rich and oily , dark-fleshed  fish (e.g., 
plant -based  canned tuna) and the other  for white -fleshed fish (e.g., plant -based  fish cakes). Maxavor® Fish YE  won a 
prestigious Food Ingredients Europe Innovation Award  in November 2021,  coming top of the ‘Plant-Based Innovation ’ 
category . 
life’s®OMEGA  from DSM is used  in plant -based  and vegan food & beverage  products  ranging from margarine to plant -
based fish a lternative s, as well as  in dietary supplements.  life’s ®OMEGA  is the only algal (plant -based) omega -3 DHA and 
EPA alternative with significant levels of EPA and DHA. It delivers the features of marine -based EPA and DHA but with the 
benefits of sustainable plant -based sourcing . life’sDHA ® is already finding applications in meat and fish alternatives in 
North America  (EU approval for its use in meat and fish alternatives is pending at time of publication  of this Report) . 
Our impact  
Following its launch in March 2021, Maxavor ® Fish YE  is now being used in a number of  vegan canned tuna products across 
the US, the UK, the Netherlands and Asia. In South Africa, the Maxavor® Fish YE solution is being used in fishcakes, while in 
New Zealan d, Russia and Romania, it is being used to produce  vegan oyster sauce.   
In Latin America, another of our products – life’sDHA ® – has been successfully used  by one of the region’s leading 
producers of plant -based products to improve the nutritional value of  its new vegan tuna alternative.  
Stronger together  
Reading Scientific Services Ltd  (RSSL) , an independent applications laboratory, has been exploring the potential of 
Maxavor® Fish YE . RSSL found it to be  invaluable in terms of achieving an authentic flavor profile and helping to mask any 
off notes from the base ingredients.   
“For an upcoming tuna alternative, we saw a noticeable 
improvement in the flavor profile when we included 
Maxavor® Fish YE in the formulation.”  
Carole Bingley, Senior Associate Principal Scientist, Reading Scientific Services Ltd 
How we support the SDGs  
SDG 12: Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns   
SDG 14: Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development  
The development of our portfolio of plant -based fish alternatives supports the attainment of UN Sustainab le Development  
Goals 12 and 14 by enabling the development of more sustainable consumer products that help protect the planet’s 
limited resources.  These products also support our Food System Commitment to r each 150 million people with nutritious, 
sustainable , plant -based  protein foods  by 2030.
Case studies  
Royal DSM Inte grated Annual Report 2021  28 Combating mycotoxins to support animal farming and protect human 
health 
The damaging effects of  mycotoxins  
Mycotoxins  are a group of more than 700 toxic compounds  produced by naturally occurring fungi . These toxic compounds 
can contaminate a wide range of staple commodities and feed raw materials . Failure to protect  livestock  against 
mycotoxins  may compromise  animal welfare, reduce animal  performance, and impair the quality of animal byproducts  
(e.g., horn and hide).  
Exposure of livestock to mycotoxins  intensif ies the usage of natural resources  and causes an increase in  greenhouse gas 
emissions associated with  reduced animal performance . Once mycotoxins are present in the feed, the animal redirects the 
energy that should be used to achieve the maximum protein deposition in its body, milk or eggs to combating these toxic 
compounds. This affects the sustainabilit y and profitability of the entire value chain.  
Mycotoxins can have diverse  biological mode s of action within an animal organism. Even a low level of contamination can 
negatively influence the health status of livestock . The presence of more than one myco toxin  in a feed source multiplies 
the damage that these compounds may cause.  These include impairment of liver functionality, impairment of gut 
Case studies  
Royal DSM Inte grated Annual Report 2021  29 functionality (leading to reduced absorption of nutrients), and a consequent increase in susceptibility to disea se. The 
presence of  mycotoxins can also trigger fertility problems (in animals  of both sexes ), reduce uniformity within herds  and 
flocks, and impair the efficacy of vaccines.  
Exposure to mycotoxins  poses a threat not just to animals, but to humans, too . Consumption of mycotoxins  found in a 
wide range of plant - or animal -sourced foodstuffs can induce conditions such as liver, kidney and esophageal cancer, 
gastrointestinal disturbances , and irritation of the skin. 
A constant  concern  
Worldwide institutions  such as the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) and the World Health Organization (WHO) 
recognize mycotoxins as  harmful contaminants  for both animals and humans, recommending  that they should be 
monitored and prevented in feed and food alike .  
The warming of the climate  encourages  the development of mycotoxins. The combination of high temperatures and 
rainfall encourages  the occurrence of fungi , making the presence of mycotoxins in grains and raw materials  a constant 
concern.  
Our solution s 
For more than three decades, Biomin , acquired as part of our acquisition of Erber in 202 0, has had a leading position in 
the biotransformation  of various mycotoxins  – i.e., the process of rendering them biologically harmless. Biomin provides 
high-quality global services to analyze mycotoxins, tools to interpret the risk  of mycotoxin exposure,  and solutions to 
mitigate losses in the food value chain caused by mycotoxi ns.  
Mycofix ® is the DSM brand for Mycotoxin Risk Management solutions . The result of decades of specialist research and 
development, the Mycofix® product line offers  innovative solutions to better protect farm animals  from mycotoxins and 
help support  sustainable business for livestock farmers . The feed additive ZENzyme®,  which targets the mycotoxin 
zearalenone , is one example from this portfolio.  
Zearalenone  is a mycotoxin that occurs  in more than 60% of feed . It mainl y affects  the reproductive system, impairing the 
fertility of breeder animals and their offspring . In 2021, we launched ZENzyme ®, the first and only purified enzyme that  
degrades zearalenone rapidly and completely. This innovation is the result of many years of research in the field of 
mycotoxin enzymology and guarantees the complete biotransformation of zearalenone into non -toxic compounds. The use 
of ZENzyme® ensures protection against zearalenone  and enables breeding animals, as well as their offsprin g, to achieve 
their full genetic potential.  
Our impact  
The Mycofix®  portfolio from DSM represents the most state -of-the-art solution for protecting the health of livestock by 
deactivating mycotoxins that contaminate feed. The safety and efficacy of Mycofi x® are proven by seven  EU authorizations 
for substances that deactivate mycotoxins.  
Stronger together  
Vestjyllands Andel Pig Feed Cooperative  is the third largest  feed mill in Denmark, producing 500,000 tons of feed and 
premix per year. Vestjyllands Andel  has been using Mycofix® Plus since 2016, starting with an order of 10 tons and 
increasing this volume to 144 tons by the end of 2021.  
Case studies  
Royal DSM Inte grated Annual Report 2021  30 “Using Mycofix® Plus in the feed all year round helps 
swine farmers to avoid health issues caused by the 
presence of mycotoxins.”  
Karsten Jørgensen, head of Krogsgaard Svineproduktion at Vestjyllands Andel Pig Feed Cooperative  
How we support the S DGs 
Our mycotoxin solutions support the attainment of UN Sustainab le Development  Goals 2, 3  and 12. 
SDG 2: End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture  
By combating the spread of mycotoxins in a warming climate , Mycofix® enables the production of more animal protein 
with the same resources. It therefore con tributes to the achievement of SDG 2.4, “By 2030, ensure sustainable food 
production systems and implement resilient agricultural practices that increase productivity and production, that help 
maintain ecosystems, that strengthen capacity for adaptation to  climate change, extreme weather, drought, flooding and 
other disasters and that progressively improve land and soil quality.”  
SDG 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote well -being for all at all ages  
Mycofix® helps reduce  the presence of harmful mycotoxins in animal -source foods consumed by humans , thus helping to 
ensure healthy lives and promote well -being.  
SDG 12: Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns  
Mycofix® contributes to sustainable consumption patterns by reducing food loss es, supporting specifically the 
achievement of SDG 12.3, “By 2030, halve per capita global food waste at the retail and consumer levels and reduce food 
losses along production and supply chains, including post -harvest losses .” 
Case studies  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  31 Combating hidden hunger  through rice fortification  
Closing the micronutrient gap for 800 million people  
Through our partnerships  in the public and private sectors, we work  to create affordable, aspirational  and accessible 
nutritional solutions  that can help keep the world’s growing population health y.  
Two billion people worldwide currently suffer from a deficiency of key micronutrients , a condition known as hidden  
hunger . Its effects can be devastating, leading to mental impairment, poor health  (including stunting and wasting), low 
productivity, and even death. Its adverse effects on child health and survival are particula rly acute, resulting in serious 
physical and cognitive consequences. Even mild to moderate deficiencies can affect a person’s well -being and 
development. In addition to affecting human health, hidden hunger can curtail socioeconomic development, particular ly in 
low- and middle -income countries.   
Case studies  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  32 As part of our new strategic Food System Commitments , we have undertaken to enable the closure of this micronutrient 
gap for 800 million  people currently suffering  from  hidden hunger  by 2030 . The fortification of rice with essential 
micronutrients is a n element in this commitment. It  is one of the most effective, safe and cost -efficient solutions to 
address micronutrient deficiencies .  
The rationale for fortifying rice  
Rice is one of the most commonly eaten  foods  in the world, providing more than 20% of global  calorie intake. White rice, 
which is milled prior to cooking, is significantly more popular than brown or unmilled rice. Approximately  480 million 
metric tons  of milled rice is produced  annually worldwide.  As a staple food  for over half the global population, rice offers a 
good and affordable source of energy . However, rice itself  does not  contain  significant amounts of most  micronutrients . 
Additionally, the milling process that produces the commonly -consumed white rice removes both the fat - and nutrient -
rich bran layers from the rice ears , further reducing the rice grains’ nutritional value. White rice is therefore a relativ ely 
nutritionally poor staple . 
The process for fortifying rice  
Rice can be made more nutritious by adding vitamins, minerals and other micro nutrients  to replenish nutrient content  lost 
in the milling process and reinforce its nutritional value. Fortified rice  can be adapted to meet specific  nutritional needs 
and can be made to resemble different rice varieties.   
There are various  methods to make rice more nutritious post -harvest , and DSM has developed a robust  proprietary  
technology in the form of  hot or warm  extrusion . This technology has been shown by numerous clinical studies to be 
effective in helping to combat micronutrient deficiencies .  
Broken rice grains are ground into rice flour, then mixed with water and the required nutrients to produce a dough. The 
fortified dough is then passed through an e xtruder to produce the fortified kernels, which are then blended with regular 
rice, typically at  a dosage rate of approximately 1 %. The temperature at which the extrusion takes place determines 
whether it is described as  hot or warm extrusion and has an in fluence on the firmness of the produced fortified kernels.  
Our solution s 
DSM is involved at every stage of the rice fortification value chain . Our activities range from engaging in joint advocacy 
efforts together with partners and customers to encourage demand for fortified rice, through product innovation and 
development, all the way to the provision of micronutrient fortificants and technical assistance.  
A significant body of evidence demonstrates the role of rice fortification in reducing nut rient deficiencies  and deficiency -
related diseases  (e.g., anemia), improving cognition , and supporting immune function. We help  private - and public -sector 
allies – including  brand owners , governments, non -governmental  organizations (NGOs), UN agencies, don ors and employers 
–to develop and integrate nutritional interventions  that help improve  nutrition and strengthen immunity for at -risk
populations.
Case studies  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  33 Extruded fortified rice kernels are produced in rice-producing and -exporting countries  such as India, Thai land and Costa 
Rica. These vitamin -enriched  rice grains are generally then blended into unfortified, locally produced  rice. We also support 
local rice millers  with our expertise in formulation, blending  and quality control . 
Fortified rice can now be found in many parts of the world . It features in public health programs  such as school meals for 
children, social safety nets and meals for workers, and is also available via commercial retail outlets . 
Our impact  
The DSM-WFP partnership has invested in ac tivities to expand the production, availability and consumption of fortified rice 
in 20 countries , reaching over 15 million people annually  through social safety nets (SSNs).   
More than 45 metric tons of fortified rice to date have been distributed throug h in-kind donations. The DSM-WFP 
partnership has additionally helped  more than 70 small and medium -sized enterprises  (SMEs)  in Bangladesh to build their 
capacity for producing  fortified rice, directly supporting local food producers and processors . As a re sult, more than 7 
million people in Bangladesh now hav e access to fortified rice via social safety nets .  
Stronger together  
Our partnership with the United Nations World Food Programme  (WFP),  one of several current partnerships in the field of 
food fortification, operates under the banner ‘Improving Nutrition, Improving Lives ’. It aims  to leverage multiple channels 
to reach as many WFP beneficiaries and consumers as possible with affordable, h igh-quality fortified rice over the coming 
years . These channels include  WFP direct food distributions  and social protection programs  such as school feeding and 
government food distribution schemes .  
The DSM-WFP partnership  draws on our respective organiza tions’ complementary competences and networks, bringing us 
closer to our shared goal of ending hidden hunger and allowing us to achieve more together through co -creation than we 
would be able to do alone. As DSM, we bring our scientific expertise  and innov ation capacity in developing nutrition 
solutions and products, as well as our financial resources and private -sector network to the partnership. WFP brings its 
extensive operational presence, its deep understanding of local contexts, its national and local  networks, and its focus on 
vulnerable populations in countries where vitamin and mineral deficiencies are most prevalent . 
Ever since its inception in 2007, the DSM -WFP partnership has made significant contributions to ending malnutrition 
worldwide. Scalin g up rice fortification has been  a key focus of the partnership since 2016.  
Disclaimer: WFP does not endorse any product or service.  
“The damaging effects of th e COVID-1 9 pandemi c have 
made th e need for s uch publi c health interventions 
greater th an ever.” 
Alliso n Oma n Lawi, Deputy Director Nutrition Division, United Nations World Food Programme 
How we support the SDGs 
Our partnership with the World Food Programme in the field of rice fortificatio n supports the attainment of UN 
Sustainable Development Goal 2. 
SDG 2: End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutritio n and promote sustainable agriculture 
Our partnershi p makes an important contribution to helping ensure that all people, in particular the poor and people in 
vulnerable situations, including infants, have access to safe, nutritious and sufficient food all year round (SDG Target 2.1.). 
It also contributes to achieving, by 2025, the internationally agreed targets on stunting and wasting in children under 5 
years of age, and addresses the nutritional needs of adolescent girls, pregnant and lactating women and older persons 
(SDG Target 2.2.).  
Case studies  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  34 Enablin g a circula r economy 
We are enabling our customers to make planet-positive choic es by increasingly designing bio-based and circular high-
performance materials . One example is Schneider Electric’s use of our recycled-based polyme r Akulon® RePurposed  in 
their new range of Merten System M switches for smart, sustainable homes.  
A world-wi de problem 
Society’s  consu mption o f the world’s resources has created a series of interconnected environmenta l cha llenges . These 
inclu de climat e cha nge, natural resourc e depletio n, and pollution in air , earth, and water . Today , only 8.6% of the 10 0 
billion tons  of minerals , fossil fuels, metals , and biomas s that enter the econom y are reused . Should th e global population 
reach 9. 6 billion by 2050, the equivalen t of almos t three planets could be required t o provide the natura l resources 
needed t o sustain curren t lifestyles. 
For producer s of high-performa nce m aterials , circularity present s both challenge s and opportunities . Companie s in these 
industrie s that can navigat e growing co nsume r demand for circula r product s and maintai n complia nce with increasingly 
stringe nt legislation can generat e both economi c and socia l value.   
Case studies  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  35 As creators  of some of the world’s most advanced high -performance polymers , we are  well positioned to drive circularity 
across many markets and end -products. Our extensive track record in materials science, world -class R&D facilities, and a 
global network of scientists means we can have a significant positive impact. As we are often active in the earlier stages of 
commercial value chains, we can help define and advocate which raw materials should enter the economy, across a wide 
range of industries. Enabling the use of recycled waste or bio -based materials as raw materials creates many new 
possibilities for ourselves and our customers.  
Our solution s 
To help our customers to embrace the opportunities intrinsic in  manufacturing circular products , we live by our  
SimplyCircular™  agenda, which comprises  three key pillars:  
Sustainable sourcing . To minimize the use of fossil -based resources, w e are  transitioning to recycled - and bio -based 
sourcing solutions founded on  four feedstock systems : bio-based, biomass (waste) mass -balanced, mechanical ly recycled , 
and chemical ly recycled mass -balanced . 
Enabling circularit y for our customers. We are creating bio- and/or recycled -based alternatives for our ent ire DSM 
Engineering Materials  portfolio . In 2021,  this was already realized for Akulon ®, Arnitel ®, Stanyl ® and EcoPaXX ®, for which we 
introduced mass -balanced alternatives . These alternatives have  exactly  the same functionality as products in our 
conventional portfolio, do not require requalification, and are certified by third parties.  Besides these mass -balanced 
solutions, we already had bio -based and recycled -based solutions in our portfolio.  EcoPaXX®  (PA410)  is a b io-based, high -
performance polyamide with the lowest carbon footprint amon g common polyamides . It can be used for a wide range of 
applications , offering customers  a low carbon footprint  and a sustainable  alternative to fossil -based materials. Discarded  
fishing nets are used as a source for producing  our recycle d-based polyamide Akulon® RePurposed . We thereby contribute 
to address ing the global issue of ocean pollution from plastics and actually re -use plastic waste as a valuable feedstock. 
With Akulon ® RePurposed , we offer ou r customers a recycled -based solution  that comes with a lower carbon footprint  and 
drives circularity . 
Simple solutions . Our easy -to-use solutions  include: our Plastics Finder tool ; application and product development 
support ; certified transparenc y and traceability ; carbon footprint life cycle assessment ( LCA) for every product ; and 
educational support on feedstock systems.  
Our impact  
In line with our SimplyCircular™ agenda, we have  already delivered a series of tangible proof points  that enable a  circular 
economy  and minimize waste. These include:  
-joint development of  the world’s first recycled packaging for gluten -free bread  for gluten -free bakery company  Dr.
Schär
-our partnership with Sympatex Technologies to commercialize bio -based mass -balanced Arnitel®  to manufacture
waterproof, windproof and breathable membranes for sports applications . The end -product contains more than
25% bio-based content by weight
Case studies  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  36 Stronger together  
We are committed to making these solutions science -based, sustainable, and scalable , and ensuring that they benefit 
customers, end -users, and society at large . A case in point is our collaboration with Schnei der Electric,  the global leader in 
the digital transformation of energy management and automation . 
Together with D SM, Schneider Electric has developed a new range of Merten System M electric products  such as switches, 
sockets and frames  and ELKO Plus switches – part of a new range designed for smart, sustainable homes. The switches are 
the first in the world to be made of recycled ocean plastic, thanks to their use of Akulon® RePurposed  – a product made 
from abandoned or ‘ghost’ polyamide fishing nets collected from the Indian Ocean and the Arabian Sea. The carbon 
footprint of  this new Akulon® RePurposed compound is  82% lower than the traditional Nylon 6 used in similar products . 
YiFu Qi, Executive Vic e-President of Global Home and Distribution, Schneider Electric: “The collaboration between DSM and 
Schneider Electric is a world first and a game -changer for the market. The challenge of weaning the world from our 
addiction to plastic waste might seem ins urmountable. But change is possible. The Merten System M recycled ocean 
material range is just the first of a pipeline of sustainable solutions from Schneider Electric designed to help the 
company’s customers achieve global net -zero goals . Using the right materials for the job from the outset is central to 
creating a circular economy.”  
“The collaboration between DSM and Schneider 
Electric is a world first and a game changer for the 
market.” 
YiFu Qi, Executive Vice President of Global Home and Distribution, Schneider
How we support the S DGs 
By enabling customers to make planet -positive choices , we are contributing to the UN Sustainab le Development  Goals 12  
and 13.  
SDG 12: Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns  
By making use of bio - and recycled -based feedstocks, we are supporting the transition from a linear, fossil -based 
economy to a circular economy. This not only relieves the pressure on fossil feedstocks but also minimizes  waste by re-
using it again as a valuable feedstock.  
SDG 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts  
By reducing the carbon footprint of our  products , we enable our customers to reduce the carbon footprint (CFP) of their 
materials signi ficantly, making a positive contribution to combat climate change. In addition, our bio - and recycled -based 
solutions offer an opportunity to reduce CFP even further.  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 202 1 37 Stakeholders 
Our purpose can only be realized by working with our stakeholders. Through empowering our employees, engaging with 
our customers and suppliers, and with the support of our investors, we will create a stronger legacy and a brighter future 
for generations t o come. We discuss topics that are relevant to our operations and our impact on society regularly with 
our stakeholders. These conversations shape how we define and execute our strategy, including risk management, 
materiality, and new business opportunities. 
Our stakeholders 
Employees 
Our people are our most important asset, and our employees represent more tha n 110 nationalities1, working at more than 
250 sites and offices in 55 countries worldwide. The safety, health a nd well-being of our people is our highest priority and 
we aspire to provide an incident- a nd injury-free working environment  for everyone, including our contractors. We 
continued to invest in our approach o n huma n rights , employee engagement and Inclusion &  diversity , while we worked 
on the execution of our People & Organizatio n (P&O) strategy . For information on how we engage wit h our employees, see 
People . 
Customers 
Our customers are key stakeholders. They drive our business and through our collaborations, we enable solutions that 
help solve some of the world’s biggest problems . For information on our business and how we engage with our customers, 
see Nutrition , Materials and Innovation . For information o n our Net Promotor Score, see Customers . 
Investors 
Capital providers play a significant role in the success and prosperity of our company. They support us in our pursuit of a 
long- term-oriented strategy  which aims to continually create value for shareholders while offering a low-risk environment  
for debt holders. For more information on how we communicate with investors, see Investors and elsewhere in this Report. 
Suppliers 
Our supply chain consists of more than 38,000 suppliers . Our suppliers are important partners for achieving our purpose, 
and we work closely with them through our Sustainable Procurement Program , comprising our supplier development and 
evaluation program, our scope 2 program , our scope 3 program and the procurement of renewable fuels. For more 
informatio n on how we work with our suppliers, see Suppliers . 
Society 
We engage with society at multiple levels — from local community initiatives to collaborations with universities and 
research institutes . We work with NGOs and civil society toward solutions for societal issues, and advocate with 
governments and society o n important issues relating to the Sustainable Development Goals  and the Paris Agreement . We 
also engage in philanthropic and sponsorship activities comprising the in-kind contributions of our employee’s time and 
expertise, as well as to the yearly amount of approximately €6 million for the coming period. As outlined in our Code of 
Business Conduct, we do not make political donations. For more information on how we engage with these stakeholders, 
see Society . 
“We continue our support of the UN Glob al Compact and remain 
committ ed to reporting our progress within this framework via this 
Repor t.” 
Geraldine Matchett and Dimitri de Vreeze, Co-CEOs, Royal DSM 
1 All data presented in Stakeholders are subject to the Non-financial reporting policy. Report by the Managing Board - Stakeholders  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  38 How we create value for our stakeholders  
Our Value Creation model illustrates our long -term value creation and is based on the Value creation and Capitals 
concepts of the Integrated Reporting <IR> framework  and gives an overview of how we create value for our stakeholders 
based on six capital inputs : Human capital , Societal & relationship capital , Natural capital , Financial capital , Intellectual 
capital  and Manufactured capital . We cluster these six capitals into People, Planet and Profit.  
We transform our capital inputs into value and positive impact through taking advantage of the opportunities and 
minimizing the risks around the relevant megatrends in our business. A key part of our strategy, aside from our financial 
targets, is to continuously strengthen our commitment to sustainabil ity. Through our business model, business strategy 
and purpose, we aim to have a positive impact for People, Planet and Profit, and deliver our share toward the Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs).  
More information on our Value Creation model  and the def initions of the six capital s, are provided in Explanation of some 
concepts and ratios . 
Capital Inputs2 
 People   Planet   Profit  
Our employees represent more than 
110 nationalities in 55 countries. We 
engage with our stakeholders and 
partners to achieve our Purpose.  We consume raw materials (including 
renewable and recyclable materials), 
energy from renewable and non-
renewable sources and water.  We employ shareholder equity and 
borrowings to invest in partnerships 
and innovation. We purchase goods 
and services that are used in our 
manufacturing assets.  
21,358 
Employees  21.4 
Primary energy use (PJ)  €9,318  
Shareholders’ equity (million)  
30:70 
Gender ratio (f:m)26 
Water withdrawal (non-once -
through cooling,  x million  m3)€3,093  
Borrowings (million)
Inputs : Inputs:  Inputs:  
-Employees
-Training & development
-Stakeholder engagement &
Public -private partnerships
-Philanthropy & sponsorship-Raw materials (including bio -
based and recycled -based
materials)
-Energy (including renewable
sources)
-Water-Shareholder s’ equity
-Borrowings
-Partnerships
-Scientific environment and
academic infrastructure
-Purchased goods & services
-Manufacturing footprint
Our Business Model  
We are a purpose -led, performance -driven organization  developing innovative solutions to address the urgent  societal 
and environmental challenges linked to the way the wo rld produces and consumes food . In 2021, o ur organizational and 
operating model was made up of market -facing Business Groups (organized into clusters) focused on the primary business 
functions . The Business Groups received services from  global support and functional excellence departments and were 
supported by the regional organizations. Our Brighter Living Solutions  — solutions that are better than the mainstream 
reference solution for people and/or the planet — account for 64% of our n et sales.  
2 All data presented in the People and Planet columns are subject to the Non-financial reporting policy.  Report by the Managing Board - Stakeholders  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  39 Percentage of net sales by en d-use market (continuing operations ) 
12% 12% 5% 5% 36% 
Food & Beverage  Dietary Supplements  Early Life Nutrition  Personal Care  Animal Nutrition  
7% 5% 6% 12% 
Automotive / Transport Electrical / Electronics Medical Pharma Other  
Value Outcomes3 
People  Planet  Profit  
The safety of our employees is our 
highest priority. Investments in 
training and career development 
provides value for employees and 
stakeholders. We aspire to pay a 
living wage to all our employees. Our 
products support improved nutrition 
and a more sustainable food system.  We work to reduce our environmental 
footprint and support the reduction 
of the footprints of our value chain 
partners. Our products enable the 
transition to a more circular economy 
and contain safer ingredients and 
materials.  We aim to deliver a strong financial 
performance, enabling us to re -invest 
in our asset base, fund our purpose -
driven innovations, pay stable 
(preferably rising) dividends and 
provide good returns to our 
bondholders. Our tax policy follows 
the letter and spirit of the law.  
0.22 
Frequency Index recordables  
 12.9 
Scope 1 + 2 + 3 emissions  
(million tons CO 2eq) €1,814 
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing 
operations (million)  
76% 
Employee engagement72% 
Purchased renewable electricity€949 
Adjusted net operating free cash 
flow from continuing operations 
(million)  
Outcomes : Outcomes : Outcomes : 
-Safety & health
-Brighter Living Solutions
-Engaged workforce
-Skills & employability
-Employee benefits
-Improved nutrition-Reduced environmental footprint
-Brighter Living Solutions
-Enabling the transition to a more
circular economy
-Safer ingredients & materials-Financial performance (Adjust ed
EBITDA and Adjusted net
operating free cash flow)
-Interest payments, capital gains /
losses and return on investment
-Total Shareholder Return,
including dividend
-Contribution to civil society via
wages, taxes and social security
including pensions
-Contribution to business success
for customers and suppliers
3 All data presented in the People and Planet columns are subject to the Non-financial reporting policy. 
Report by the Managing Board - Stakeholders  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  40 Impact and SDGs  
People  Planet  Profit  
-Better fed and healthier
individuals and communities
-More prosperous and resilient
employees for our company and
in our value chain-More sustainable use of
resources, for our company and
in our value chain
-Products that contribute to safer,
healthier working & living
environments-We are purpose -led,
perfor mance -driven through
science -based sustainable
solutions
-Sustainable returns to investors
-Positive contributions to
economic growth in the countries
and markets in which we operate
Materiality  
In order to  assess material topics that are both of interest to society and have impact on our businesses, we annually 
update our materiality analysis. In 202 1, we conducted a full materiality analysis  due to the divestment of Resins & 
Functional Materials and associ ated businesses , and the accelerated strategic journey as announced in September 2021 . 
Our update in 202 1 used the Materiality Matrix 2020 as its point of departure. A list of potential material topics was defined 
using desk research  into third -party publications, peer analysis, interviews with DSM business managers, and internal 
documentation including the Corporate Risk Assessment 2020 and food systems reports . Feedb ack was received on the 
proposed topics through an internal employee workshop  with representatives from our Business Groups and functions, 
and in an external stakeholder dialogue  session  with representatives from our customers, suppliers, peers,  and invest ors. 
The resulting matrix was compared with the Corporate Risk Assessment to make sure all relevant topics were captured 
from a materiality and/or risk perspective. The matrix  was reviewed and validated by the Executive Committee  and f inally, 
approved by t he Managing Board.  
Changes in 202 1 
The 2021 matrix is based on the ‘double materiality’ concept – addressing both the impact of the company on the topic 
and the impact of the topic on the company.  
The matrix has changed to reflect our Health, Nutrition & Bioscience  strategy, with an increased focus on nutrition - and 
food-systems -related topics. This has resulted in the renaming of a number of topics. Two topics (Geopolitical shifts & 
trade dynamics’ and ‘Advocacy, engagement & partnering’) have been moved into other material topics. One new topic has 
been added – ‘Responsible Sourcing’ . The focus domains have been replaced with the underlying topics:  
-‘Climate & Energy ’ was replaced by ‘Carbon Footprint Reduction ’ and ‘Climate Adaptation ’
-‘Nutrition & Health ’ was replaced by ‘Food Security ’, ‘Sustainable Agriculture ’ and ‘Healthy Diets & Nutritious
Food ’
-‘Resources & Circularity ’ was replaced by ‘Waste & Circularity ’ and aspects of the existing topic of ‘Nature &
Biodiversity ’
For more information on materi ality, see  Management approach for material topics . 
Report by the Managing Board - Stakeholders  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  41 Materiality matrix 202 1 
Collaborative platforms and networks  
We collaborate with like -minded organizations through platforms and networks that contribute to our  purpose of creating 
brighter lives for all. These collaborations are chosen to amplify and accelerate our advocacy efforts in support of a 
transition to more sustainable economic models  on topics that align to our Focus Domains of Nutrition & Health, Clim ate 
& Energy, and Resources & Circularity. Collaborative platforms and networks such as these can help formulate new 
solutions , and measurement and performance methods , as well as roadmaps for business contributions  toward achieving 
the Sustainable Develop ment Goals (SDGs). In this section, we describe some of the most significant initiatives. Due to the  
ongoing  impact of COVID -19, many of the major events of these platforms and networks, such as the WBCSD Council 
meeting  and the WEF Annual Meeting, were po stponed or went completely virtual.  
Supporting our stakeholders during COVID -19 
In 2021, we continued to provide support and resources to internal and external stakeholders during the COVID -19 
pandemic . Our in -house initiatives, including our ‘It’s OK’ campaign and  #optimizeyourimmunity , are described in Health 
& well-being .  
APAC  
In Singapore, we continued to support the Migrant Workers’ Centre , an NGO whose mission is to champion fair 
employment. In Japan, we supported WFP’s COVID -19 pandemic emergency support  in place of the ‘Walk the Worl d’ event 
that was canceled due to the pandemic. In India , in partnership with Medtronic , donations of medical equipment, such as 
ventilators, were made to local hospitals . In the aftermath of a flood, and a corresponding increase in COVID -19 cases in 
Henan province (China), we provided support to the affected communities.  
Report by the Managing Board - Stakeholders  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  42 Europe  
In the Netherlands, our joint venture with VDL Group, Dutch PPE Solutions, began large -scale production of filtering 
material  made from bio -based feedstock in the form of used cooking oil. The plant provides the first fully locally -produced 
face masks  in the region.  
Latin America  
We provided support to the communities located around DSM facilities with donations of food, cleaning and personal 
hygiene products and warm clothing . We also assisted institutions that offer assistance to socially vulnerable families , 
children and teenagers, as well as homes for the elderly . In partnership with Holos, we supported conversations with 
mental health professionals , and in partnership with t he Secretary of Education  and State Schools of Brazil , we hosted 
online talks with public school students addressing the difficulties stemming from the pandemic.  
North America  
We continued to donate immunity boosting nutritional products  as well as N95 mas ks to front line health care workers  
and first responders  in the communities around our facilities. We also  continued to optimize the immunity of our own 
colleagues through the continued distribution of nutritional products and offered mental a nd emotional  health support to 
them and their families.  
Cross -domain initiatives  
World Economic Forum (WEF)  
We are a strategic partner of WEF. We actively participated in its virtual events throughout 2021 as well as the Forum’s 
physical events during COP26 in Glasgow . In 2021, our Co -CEO Geraldine Matchett joined the International Business Council  
(IBC). She remained a member of the Steering Committee of the Consumer Governors  and the Food Security Stewards . Our 
Co-CEO Dimitri de Vreeze is a member of the Steer ing Committee of the Chemical Governors  and will in 2022 take over the 
IBC membership from Ms. Matchett. Both spoke at various virtual events of the Forum.  
We actively contributed to several initiatives in 2021, including the Alliance of CEO Climate Leader s, the CEO Action Group 
for the European Green Deal , the Food Innovation Hub Europe , and we participated in a number of meetings with public 
figures organized by WEF.  
The SDG Tent  
As WEF was not able to organize its Annual Meeting due to the COVID -19 pande mic, we joined forces with partners 
including Salesforce, Proct er & Gam ble and Yara to continue the  SDG Tent  in online format , a venue for discussing 
business engagement for achieving the SDGs Several successful events were hosted in the virtual SDG Tent , such as 
Tackling the Triple Threat of Food Security, Economic, and Climate Crisis  and Why Bold Food Systems Action is the Best 
Vaccine Against Chaos . 
World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD)  
We are a member of WBCSD and participate in various working groups and coalitions. Our Co -CEO Geraldine Matchett is 
member of WBCSD’s Executive Committee  and is Commissioner in WBCSD’s  Business Commission to Tackle Inequality  
(BCTI).  In addition to the areas mentioned below, w e are also active within the WBCSD Climate Policy Working Group  and 
the Chemicals group  (including  the shared development of a Portfolio Sustainability Assessment  methodology) . 
Food & Nature  
DSM is Board Member of the Food & Nature Progra m and a founding member of the Food Reform for Sustainability and 
Health (FReSH) project , with the aim to drive food system to support healthy people on a healthy planet. In 2021 , we 
helped to shape the ‘Business Declaration on Food System Transformation’,  that was presented by WBCSD at the  UN Food 
System Summit.  In December  at the global Tokyo Nutrition for Growth Summit , WBCSD launched  the ‘Responsible Business 
Pledge’ that sets out the areas for quantified business commitments for better nutrition .     
Circular Economy  
Factor10  is WBCSD’s Circular Economy program that convenes more than 30 global companies to co -develop solutions to 
accelerate the transition toward  the circular economy . In 2021,  we continued to co -lead the circular metrics workstream , Report by the Managing Board - Stakeholders  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  43 developing the circular tra nsition framework  enhanced with new metrics for water, financial performance,  and a 
bioeconomy guidance. Facto r10 also launched version 2.0 of the Circular Transition Indicators  and the accompanying 
online tool, supporting companies in taking concrete acti ons toward  their circularity ambitions . 
Redefining Value  
Redefining Value is WBCSD ’s program supporting external disclosure  and decision -making. In 2021, we collaborated on the 
guide ‘Future -Proof Business’ . We participated in the Shaping Sustainable Finan ce Policy Working Group , with a particular 
focus on the engagements around the EU Sustainable Finance Agenda  and the work of EFRAG related to developing 
European Sustainability Reporting Standards , the IFRS Foundation  establishment of the ISSB, and the ali gnment between 
the two organizations . 
Ban-Ki Moon Cent re 
The Ban Ki -moon Centre for Global Citizens (BKMC) is a Quasi -International Organization located in Vienna, Austria, 
established in January 2018. The Centre is co -chaired by Ban Ki -moon, 8th Secretary -General of the UN, and by Heinz 
Fischer 11th President of the Republic of Austria. Its mission is to foster leadership  for the implementation of the 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the Paris Climate Agreement  by inspiring current decision makers  and 
empowering the next generation of leaders . Mr. de Vreeze is on the Board of BKMC. We have supported the BKMC’s projects 
in the fields relevant to our strategy in the years since it was established.  
The European Chemical Industry Council  (Cefic)  
Cefic represents the voice of large, medium and small chemical companies  across Europe. Mr. de Vreeze represents us in 
Cefic’s Executive Committee and Board and chairs Cefic’s Sustainability Forum, through which he focuses on the 
acceleration of Cefic’s s ustainability journeys. In 2021, we actively contributed to various workstreams of the Sustainability 
Forum , focusing on the development of indicators  driving and monitoring the industry’s progress towards the SDGs in 
general and the EU Green Deal  in parti cular , and of a concept definition for innovation that is Safe and sustainable -by-
design . Our experts are also member of various other internal Cefic groups and , for example , actively contributed to 
shaping Cefic’s view on the EU Sustainable Finance  strategy . 
Accounting for Sustainability (A4S)  
A4S brings together leading CFOs to help embed the management of environmental and societal issues into business 
processes and strateg y, particularly through the finance function. Ms. Matchett is a signatory to the A4S CFO Statement of 
Support for the TCFD recommendations  and the A4S CFO net-zero Statement of Support . 
In 202 1, we participated in various virtual events and meetings . Towar d the end of the year , two of our senior finance 
leaders graduated from the A4S Academy , a program which provides an opportunity to senior finance leaders to broaden 
their perspective on sustainability, the impact it has on business , and how companies can contribute . Two new finance 
leaders have joined the next cohort . We contributed to the guide on ‘ Enhancing Investor Engagement’  as well as a 
roundtable accompanying this publication, and published a case study on managing ESG-related risks and opportunitie s. 
Dutch Sustainable Growth Coalition (DSGC)  
The DSGC is a CEO-led coalition of eight Dutch multinational corporations which aims to drive sustainable growth business 
models  that combine economic profitability with environmental and social progress and thu s contribute to the 
achievement of the SDGs. To accelerate this transition in the Netherlands and abroad, the coalition wants to lead the way 
and pursues a strategy of Share - Shape - Activate .  
In 2021, the DSGC published an open letter during the Dutch cabinet formation discussions  emphasizing the importance of 
innovation and sustainability for a better future and implementing the SDGs. In November , the Generational Leadership in 
Action  event was organiz ed, involving the participation of students as well as CEOs.  The students were challenged to work 
on real -life case challenges from the DSGC companies .  Report by the Managing Board - Stakeholders  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  44 Climate & Energy initiatives  
Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC)  
We continue to drive carbon pr icing and share our experiences on the topic through the Carbon Pricing Leadership 
Coalition . The CPLC’s long -term objective is for effective carbon pricing  to be applied throughout the global economy. In 
addition to facilitating leadership dialogues , the CPLC  and its  partner  organizations are  also mobilizing business support 
to put an internal price on carbon . We apply an internal carbon price of €100 per ton of CO2eq when reviewing large 
investments and acquisitions, and we include this in internal manage ment reporting by our Business Groups.  
RE100  
Our engagement with RE100, the world’s leading campaign to scale up the corporate sourcing of renewable power , 
continued t hroughout 2021. In addition to peer exchange to advance the uptake of renewable electricity in China , we 
participated in several learning events , conferences and advocacy opportunities in Europe, the US and China.  
We Mean Business  
We Mean Business activate s hundreds of companies and investors to commit to low-carbon initiatives . In 2021, we worked 
on several advocacy and communications activities  in the context of  COP26 that called on governments to urgently match 
their ambition and policies to limit global  temperature rise to 1.5°C above pre -industrial levels, and demonstrate the 
private sector’s support for these efforts, along with the enabling solutions developed to date . 
Global Center and Commission on Adaptation (GCA)  
We continued our partner ship with the GCA, particularly by lending our expertise in food security , and helping smallholder 
farmers  manage risks and climate shocks through Africa Improved Foods (AIF), but also by mobilizing the private sector to 
adopt an integrated strategy to address clima te adaptation alongside climate mitigation efforts.  
Taskforce on Scaling up Voluntary Carbon Markets  
We are a member of the Taskforce on Scaling up Voluntary Carbon Markets, a private sector -led initiative working to 
improve the credibility and functionali ty of an effective and efficient voluntary carbon market  to help meet the goals of 
the Paris Agreement. The taskforce is providing insights and recommended actions for the most pressing pain -points 
facing voluntary carbon markets.  
Science Based Targets Ini tiative: Net -Zero Expert Advisory Group  
We joined the Science Based Targets Initiative Net -Zero Standard Expert Advisory Group (EAG) in 2020. This group is at the 
heart of the development process for a standard to guide the formulation and assessment of science -based net -zero 
targets  in the corporate sector . These  targets are consistent with action needed to limit warming to 1.5°C while minimizing 
trade -offs with other SDGs . The standard was launched in October 2021, and the work to refine it will continue  with the 
support of the EAG throughout 2022.  
Resources & Circularity initiatives  
Platform for Accelerating the Circular Economy (PACE)  
PACE  is part of the World Resource Institute 's (WRI) Center for Sustainable Business . PACE is a public -private collaboration 
platform that aims to catalyze global leadership from business, government, and civil society to accelerate the transition 
to a circular economy. Mr. Dimitri de Vreeze represents DSM in the Global Leadership Group , which includ es more than  80 
CEOs, ministers and heads of international organizations. PACE catalyzes new projects  and supports partner -led projects  
to scale  up circular economy action on plastics , electronics and capital equipment , food and agriculture , and textiles a nd 
fashion. Other thematic touch points are Finance, Metrics and Innovation. PACE is leading the mapping and tracking 
process for initiatives, including DSM initiatives, already in place that tackle specific Calls  to Action.  
Ellen MacArthur Foundation  (EMF) 
The EM F is an organization which supports the transition toward  the circular economy. It does this by developing and 
promoting the concept of a circular economy , working with business, policy makers and academics. In 2021, access to t he 
Foundation’s Network Workshops and online Annual Summit  was available to our employees . We participated in the Ellen 
MacArthur Foundation’s From  Linear to Circular program , aimed at postgraduate students and professionals at the start of Report by the Managing Board - Stakeholders  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  45 their circular economy career. It includes webinars, networking sessions, a vibrant online community, and collaborative 
team projects developed by the Foundation and members of the Ellen MacArthur Network. We also endorsed the Ellen 
MacArthur Foundation biodiversity paper  and provided input to the Big Food Redesign campaign  supported by 
communications activity across the Foundation’s channels.  
Circle Economy  
Circle  Economy is a not -for-profit organization that works with a global community of businesses, cities and governments 
to accelerate the transition to the circular economy through practical and scalable insights . In 2021, we were members of  
the Circularity Gap  Report Roundtable , which  developed the 4th Circularity Gap Report . The Gap Report provides a framework 
and fact  base to measure and monitor progress in bridging the global circularity gap. The Gap Report Initiative will 
continue to bring together global, cross -sector stakeholders from academia, businesses, NGOs and governments to input, 
evaluate and endorse the annual Gap R eport.  
Champions 12.3   
Our Co -CEO Ms. Geraldine  Matchett is a member of Champions 12.3 , a coalition of executives from governments, 
businesses, international organizations, research institutions, farmer groups, and civil society dedicated to inspiring 
ambition , mobilizing action , and accelerating progress  toward achieving SDG Target 12.3  by 2030. An important and 
promising angle addresses  climate action through value chain  collaboration. In 2021 , we presented, together with 
Wageningen University , actions against food waste to reduce greenhouse gas emission throughout the dairy value chain . 
Nutrition & Health initiatives  
The DSM Malnutriti on Partnerships and Programs  (MPP) team addresses malnutrition through public -private partnerships, 
while strengthening our consumer -oriented new business model ‘ Programs in Emerging Markets’ . Through our 
partnerships, we learn about effectively creating i mpact for vulnerable and last -mile population groups. These learnings 
drive our innovation efforts  to create new solutions that address the needs of consumers in emerging and previously 
underserved markets.  In addition, MPP offers opportunities for talent development  through exchange programs. In 202 1, 11 
DSM employees worked as long -term secondees or on a (part -time, virtual) consultancy project for our partners, benefiting 
from unique opportunities for personal and professional development.  
UN World Food Programme (WFP)  
The DSM -WFP partnership ‘ Improving Nutrition, Improving Lives’ , in place since 2007, aims to improve the nutritional value 
of the food that WFP distributes. Together, we reached 30 million direct beneficiaries in 2020  (the most recent repor ting 
period) with food improved by the DSM -WFP partnership. We have made  significant  strides in the partnership’s efforts in 
scaling up fortified rice, both through retail channels and in social safety nets. Specifically, the partnership contributed to 
substantially scaling up the availability of fortified rice globally, from reaching 3 .8 million in 2018 to 15 million people in 
2020.  
Equally important, the partnership programs create long-term systemic impact by raising awareness o f the importance of 
nutrition while continuing to develop new scientific and technical solutions. For example, in 2021, 11 so-called DSM X -
Changers worked on temporary assignments with WFP using their expertise in the fields of (social) marketing, business 
case development, packaging, quality assurance and (sales) data analysis. Accordingly, within the current Memorandum of 
Understanding for 2019 –2021 (under renewal for 2022) , the partnership is prioritizing rice f ortification  as a proven and cost -
effective solution for combating malnutrition , with our partnership’s activities supporting 15 countries globally. 
Additionally, the humanitarian organization is moving toward  cash-and-voucher systems  as a long -term strate gy. The 
partnership continues to support WFP to empower consumers to improve their own nutrition and diets.  
UNICEF  
Since 2013, UNICEF, DSM, and Sight and Life have partnered to improve nutrition for women and children . Built on multiple 
pillars, the partnership aims to expand the scientific evidence base and operational proof of viability  of targeted 
nutritional interventions ; to increase awareness of the importance of good nutrition; and to make  nutritious food produc ts 
accessible to those who need them most.  Report by the Managing Board - Stakeholders  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  46 Creating enabling environment and scaling up micronutrient powder uptake  
In Nigeria, the partnership focused on providing an enabling environment for the uptake of micronutrient powder  (MNP) 
and support ed the Gove rnment of Nigeria in realizing its vision of scaling up the MNP program nationally from five to ten 
states, reaching three million children aged 6 –23 months suffering from malnutrition. The program added Multiple 
Micronutrient Supplements (MMS)  for pregnan t and lactating women and integrated MNP guidelines into the national 
standards in Nigeria. Additionally, the partnership resulted in increased commitment by both private and public actors in 
Nigeria to improve the access to nutritious foods for young chil dren, through engagement  with the SUN Business Network.  
The Social Movement on Nutrition program  
The partnership expanded to India by supporting the UNICEF engagement of private -sector stakeholders  as part of the 
Indian government’s Social Movement on Nutr ition program. The collaboration focuses on mobilizing the private sector 
around nutrition literacy, through the platform Impact4Nutrition  (I4N), which was established in March 2019. In 2021, the 
platform, which won an internal UNICEF INSPIRE award and AVPN  prize, has more than 200 companies on board.  
Addressing agri -food business development  
Furthermore, this partnership was expanded to address agri-food business development  as part of an opportunity 
identified by Generat ion Unlimited  (GenU), within the United Nations Secretary General’s Youth 2030 Strategy.  The key 
objective of this expanded cross -sectoral partnership is to embed a longer -term vision for Sustainable Food Systems 
(GenU SFS) in Africa ; develop a business pl an to attract young people to the agri-food value chain , in an effort to boost 
youth employment in Africa ; and build an enab ling environment along the agri -food sector conducive to thriving, 
sustainable and inclusive business.   
World Vision International  
Our partnership with World Vision and Sight and Life, with the slogan of ‘ Joining Forces for Last -Mile Nutrition’ , aims to 
bring prosperity and good nutrition to the most vulnerable communities in the Global South. Leveraging the unique 
capabilities and know -how of each partner, we design and implement sustainable market -based solutions  that bridge the 
gap between public and pr ivate efforts for improving nutrition and fostering local economic development. For example, 
the partners worked on solutions for maize in Rwanda, eggs in Indonesia and Ethiopia, distribution channels in Brazil, and 
MMS in the Philippines.  
The maize value chain in Rwanda  
In Rwanda, the partners enable transformation of the local maize value chain , ensuring a more efficient, inclusive and 
sustainable supply chain. Partners work with and enable smallholder farmers  through training and market access, while 
working on improving the quality of, and access to, raw materials for Africa Improved Foods ( AIF) in Rwanda. After positive 
results of the initial pilot, the partners are now collaborating for scale -up. More than 31,000 children and almost 20,000 
women benefi t from AIF’s Super Cereal product as part of World Vision Rwanda’s COVID -19 response.  
The EGGciting project  
The EGGciting project in Indonesia focuses on eggs as an important source of nutrition and works to increase the 
availability, accessibility, and co nsumption of eggs at the household level in Sulawesi (Indonesia). Partners address 
bottlenecks in the supply chain and improve the quality of feed, while driving demand on the consumer side for improved 
nutrition by use of social marketing  that stimulates the consumption of eggs as a nutritious product.  
Building on the success of the E GGciting Indonesia project, the partners brought the E GGciting model to three regions in 
Ethiopia;  Boset, Shaheme, and Bui. The program focuses on training small and medium poultry farmers  in farm operation 
and feed management for improved nutrition, safety, quality, sustainability, and livelihoods. Simultaneously, the program 
aims to increase the acce ssibility to eggs and the understanding of their nutritional value , especially for women and 
children.  
Social distribution of nutrition in Brazil  
In Brazil, market research to support the social distribution of nutritional products  started in 2019. This p ilot continued 
throughout 2021 and  is projected to transform the distribution of micronutrient -enriched products  in Brazil by incubating 
last-mile nutrition female entrepreneurs  to serve populations living in vulnerable communities through a door -to-door Report by the Managing Board - Stakeholders  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  47 business model. In 2021, Products were  formulated and designed  and an  initial group of 200 women participated  in 
workshops about nutrition and entrepreneurship.  
MMS in the Philippines  
In the Philippines, the partners launched a new program focusing on the MM S value chain for pregnant and lactating 
women  in the Albay, Camarines, and Zamboanga del Norte regions. The program builds on the momentum behind MMS 
after its inclusion in WHO’s essential medicine list . It aims to  increas e the availability and acce ss to MMS, ensur e adequate 
demand and use, and further encourag e policy reform to include MMS.  
Africa Improved Foods (AIF)  
AIF is an African social enterprise  that produces fortified foods made mainly from maize and soybean sourced from over 
130,000 smallh older farmers in the region. These products include mineral - and vitamin -rich porridges  and help meet the 
nutritional needs of vulnerable population groups such as pregnant and breastfeeding mothers, older infants, and young 
children.  AIF address es the foo d challenges facing Africa by building resilient food systems  through  sourcing, 
manufacturing, and selling nutritious, affordable, and accessible products. AIF was launched in 2016 in Rwanda as a public -
private partnership  between the Government of Rwanda  and a consortium comprising  DSM, the Dutch Development Bank 
(FMO), DFID Impact Acceleration Facil ity managed by CDC Group plc  (CDC), and the International Finance Corporation  (IFC), 
the private -sector arm of the World Bank Group . 
A study executed by the Un iversity of Chicago shows that AIF delivers true value  - improving the livelihoods  of smallholder 
farmers, employees  and their families, improving food safety , reducing malnutrition and contributing to broader 
development . The AIF intervention is expected to contribute over USD 1 billion to the regional economy over a 15 -year 
period.   
AIF’s Kigali factory contributes to the local and regional economy  
AIF’s mission is to produce high quality nutritious foods from local ingredients . Already working with 45,000 smallholder 
farmers in Rwanda, to improve their productivity and quality and are scaling this further with partners. Focused on 
developing robust value chains  that address the challenges of climate change and employment creation  in the African 
food value chain.  
AIF’s Kigali factory employs over 300 skilled workers with well -paid jobs. Regional procurement  of goods and services (such 
as transportation) has led to indirect economic development  across East Africa. With a reach of ov er 1.6 million consumers 
daily, AIF has proven that this model can be profitable while contributing to SDG 1 (No Poverty), SDG 2 (Zero Hunger) and 
SDG 13 (Climate Action).  
Positive results in 2021 despite the pandemic  
Despite COVID -19, revenue grew  to more than  USD 60 million  in 2021 , as the need for humanitarian nutritious food  supply 
continues to be high. Business -to-consumer sales grew significantly as the Nootri brand (comprising a range of fortified 
porridges) continue d to gain popularity across East Africa. The year also marked the beginning of AIF’s new ambitious 
growth strategy , with groundwork in Ethiopia and Kenya to accelerate and further scale up AIF's impact.  
MANDI  
In 2021, we continued to expand MANDI (Making A Nutritional Difference to India) , a socio -commercial consumer products 
business  delivering local nutrition and home fortification solutions that are affordable and convenient. The range of home 
fortification products involved, branded as NuShakti™,  includes solutions for staples such as rice and wheat flour, as well 
as fruit -flavored fortified beverage powder  and vitamin enriched candies  – all of which ha ve a base immunity benefit. The 
business aims to build education about the importance of health,  nutrition and immunity , with the aim of tackling 
widespread malnutrition in India. Since its start  in the third quarter of  2019, the business has faced two rounds of 
pandemic shutdowns for more than seven  months , causing huge disruptions in systematic bui ld-up. In 2021, Nu -Shakti™ 
products were distributed in  four southern states in India in leading  modern trade and grocery outlets .  
Partners in Food Solutions  (PFS)  
PFS works to increase the growth and competitiveness of  food companies in Africa . These aim s are achieved by inspiring 
business leaders and linking highly skilled corporate volunteers from a consortium of leading companies including DSM, Report by the Managing Board - Stakeholders  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  48 Cargill, General Mills, Hershey, Bühler, Ardent Mills, and J.M. Smucker Company  with promising entrepreneurs  and other 
influencers in the food ecosystem . The seven corporate partners have empowered hundreds of entrepreneurs to work 
toward stronger, more resilient food value chains across the African continent.  
In 2021, DSM employees contributed over 1,240 volunte er hours , working with 52 African clients across 11 countries. By 
sharing expertise, the volunteers were able to assist local entrepreneurs in growing their businesses and supporting a 
supplier base of more than 102,600 farmers. In total, 62 DSM volunteers  supported 67 service offerings to clients, of which 
15 clients are owned or managed by women.  
Scaling Up Nutrition (SUN)  
The SUN Business Network (SBN) — co-hosted by the Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition  (GAIN) and WFP — is the 
private -sector branch of the SUN Movement. It aims to support businesses in growing the role they play in nutrition and to 
support SUN countries  in developing national business engagement strategies. The SBN is established in 18 co untries and 
supports the development of new networks in 26 countries. These include almost 1,400 companies, mostly small and 
medium -sized enterprises. The global membership platform currently has 25 members, who have a combined workforce of 
over 1.1 millio n employees. Our Honorary Chairman Mr. Feike Sijbesma is a member of the Lead Group of the SUN 
Movement  and Co -Chair of the Advisory Group of the Network . Our Vice President Malnutrition Partnerships and Programs 
is on the Operations Committee of the SBN.  
Supporting SBN projects in Africa  
We supported several SBN projects focusing on Sub -Saharan Africa. Together with the SBN global team, we built on the 
impact and energy of the first ever Nutrition Africa Investor Forum  (NAIF) which reframed the dialogue a round nutrition 
and supported the Global Pitch Competition 2020. As an SBN global member, we support the implementation of SBN 
principles, notably around workforce nutrition commitments ; overweight, obesity and diet -related non -communicable 
diseases; and t he delivery of technical assistance to national SBNs and their members. We advocate for business to take a 
leading role in these important issues and collaborate with SBN for stronger business accountability  on nutrition and for 
the adoption of SMART nutri tion pledges by business (UN Food System Summit, Nutrition for Growth Summit).  
Sight and Life   
As a global leader in nutrition, the Sight and Life  Foundation uses science to change the way nutrition is delivered to 
people who need it most, specifically wom en and children.  
With the support of DSM, Sight and Life  delivers value by translating science into effective nutrition programming , building 
public -private partnerships, and developing viable social business models for affordable and nutritious foods.  
In 2021, Sight and Life  launched the Nutrition in City Ecosystems (NICE) project, a Swiss consortium with the Swiss Tropical 
and Public Health Institute , ETH Zürich , and Syngenta Foundation  and supported by the Swiss Agency for Development and 
Cooperation . NICE aims to increase long -term access to and demand for nutritious foods produced via local and 
agroecological systems in Bangladesh, Kenya and Rwanda . 
Through a long -term partnership with DSM and the World Food Programme, Sight and  Life continues to cre ate demand for 
nutritious and affordable food  for women in Ghana via the OBAASIMA seal. Together with DSM , Sight and Life  increases 
supply and demand for more and better eggs to populations at risk of nutritional deficiencies in Africa and Latin America.  
This year also brought new publications and virtual events focused on key themes, including nutrient profiling, multiple 
micronutrient supplementation, adolescent nutrition, food systems, and the impacts of climate change on nutrition, 
sharing science -based  evidence and expert knowledge.  For more information, visit:  sightandlife.org . 
Other Initiatives  
Catalyst  
We continue to be an active Catalyst supporter . Our  Honorary Chairman Mr. Feike Sijbesma continued his role on the 
Board of Directors  and our Co -CEO Ms. Geraldine Matchett her role on the European Advisory Board . Report by the Managing Board - Stakeholders  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  49 In 2021, via our sponsorship of Catalyst’s work on Women and The Future of Work  (a long -term research -led program 
focused on ensurin g equity in future employability), we participated in regular expert group meetings, contributing to 
research outcomes, and products developed by Catalyst for use by its supporters. We applied these products ourselves, for 
example the Workplace Flexibility  model , in shaping our approach to hybrid workplaces.  DSM experts on Inclusion & 
Diversity,  and Hybrid Working spoke at a Catalyst event on ‘Developing Flexible & Inclusive Teams ’.  
We also continue to m ake good use of Catalyst’s broader resources, for example on Employee Resource Groups  for the 
development of our own approach, and the Catalyst Inclusive Leadership model  within our ‘Leading Leaders ’ training 
program.  
Valuable 500  
The Valuable 500 is  a glo bal NGO aimed at unlocking the social and economic value of people living with disabilities  
across the world. In 2021, our engagement with the Valuable 500 focused on their platform for companies looking to invest 
in and improve their disability inclusion programs , by sharing knowledge and best practices with one another. Through 
this collaboration, we defined new aspirations  in the area for disability inclusion  to increase the representation  of people 
with disabilities and to improve access  to our building s and digital infrastructure . 
One Young World (OYW)  
The One Young World Summit gathers 2,000 young leaders  from more than 190 countries and all sectors, empowering 
them to make lasting connections to generate positive change for sustainable development . In 2021, our 10th OYW 
delegation comprised 20 colleagues representing all our businesses and regions. This delegation attended the Munich 
Summit in July 2021 which had been delayed due to the pandemic. This year also featured the first workshop hosted by 
DSM at OYW titled ‘Unleash your potential in a VUCA world’ to help participants discover about intrapreneurship and 
partnerships , and kickstart purpose -led business project s.  
Working on business development and internal engagement  
The community of over 120 OYW alumni manage s different business development and internal engagement projects for 
sustainability. Projects implemented by previous delegations include a Personal Carbon Footprint Calculator , a learning 
and development game called ‘ The DSM Sustaina ble City ™’, a project on Sustainable Packaging , and the  Tomato  Projec t (a 
development project for  fortified tomato sauce) . The 2021 delegation is working on projects relating to  fortified water, an 
employee -funded foundation, modern slavery , and refugees w ith disabilities.   
External recognitions  
We are proud when our efforts receive positive recognition from others. Below is a selection of some awards and 
recognitions that we received from NGOs and trade organizations, customers, suppliers and academia in 2021.  
Asia Corporate Excellence & Sustainability Awards  (ACES)  conferred on  DSM the ‘Asia’s Most Socially Responsible  Company 
of the Year ’ award. ACES noted the role of sustainability in the company’s identity, strategy, business and operations.  
EXAME  magazine  recognized DSM as one of the three  most sustainable companies in Brazil in the E XAME  ESG Guide and 
one of the 67 most diverse companies in Brazil in the  EXAME  Diversity Guide.  
New Jersey Business and Industry Association  and New Jersey Business magazine  presented  DSM with an Outstanding 
Employer of the Year award in recognition of our efforts in the area of  social well -being, such as the launch of our ne w 
Culture Compass . 
Our sustainability initiatives were recognized in PWC’s book on Sustainability Transformation  in Japan. This was also 
featured in the Nikkei Newspaper.  
DSM was selected as a winner in the Sustainable Business category at the Singapore AP EX Corporate Sustainability Awards , 
organized by the United Nations Global Compact Singapore chapter .  Report by the Managing Board - Stakeholders  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  50 SSON Analytics included DSM in their Top 20 Most Admired Shared Services Organizations (SSOs) and Global Business 
Services (GBS) benchmarking study 2021.  This study provided valuable insights to how GBS are developing and allows 
companies to understand what needs to be improved to drive a high -performing GBS organization.  
At the 13th Special International Roundtable of Multinational Corporation Leaders , DSM received the Outstanding 
Contribution Award in fighting COVID -19 in recognition of our efforts in this cause in China and globally.  
ESG Ratings and Benchmarks  
Sustainability is at the heart of our business. It is our core value: we see it as a key respon sibility and an important 
business driver. This is reflected by our inclusion in several Environmental, Social, Governance (ESG) Benchmarks and 
Ratings , many of which rate us a (sector) leader.  
Given the large number of prevailing ESG benchmarks, participating in each and every one of them is not feasible for any 
company, so we annually review and prioritize our participation . We are in favor of further consolidation and 
standardization of the ES G benchmarks as we believe this will encourage more companies to participate than is currently 
the case.  
Our annual review of the ESG benchmarks to participate in, is based on the following criteria:  
-Recognition  and use by our stakeholders, including our i nvestors
-Transparency  of methodology
-Primary reliance on publicly accessible  information
-Avoidance  of additional administrative work
-Provision of sufficient feedback  to participating companies to enable them to make meaningful year -on-year
improvements
Our priorities in 202 1, and the outcomes, are listed below.  
We maintained a low-risk rating from  ISS QualityScore  throughout the year , including lowest risk (1 out of 10) in 
Governance and Environment . In April, ISS ESG reconfirmed DSM as  ‘Prime ’ according t o its rating methodology. Our rating 
of B- puts us in the top decile relative to our industry group.  
In September , EcoVadis  awarded our company a  Platinum CSR Rating . The Platinum rating places us in the top 1% of 
companies assessed in our industry.  
In October, MSCI’s rating of DSM was unchanged at  ‘AAA’ . The report noted a lower water risk, our carbon emission 
reduction efforts and our program on product stewardship .  
In October, we were again listed in the Vigeo Eiris Benelux, Europe, Eurozone and World indices . Vigeo Eris is now part of 
Moody’s ESG Solutions.  
In December , for our climate strategy , and water governance and strategy  in 2021, we were assessed as double A by CDP.  
We continued to be  a constitue nt of the  FTSE4Good Index . We have been listed on this index since 2004.  
In January 2022, we were assessed by Sustainalytics  regarding the risk of experiencing material financial impacts from ESG 
factors, ranking in the top 4th percentile in our industry . Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  51 People  
At a glance  
-0.22 Frequency  Index  of Recordable  Injuries,  compared  to 0.24 in 2020
-76% Employee  Engagement  Index,  compared  to 76% in 2020
-23% female  executives,  compared  to 21% in 2020
-30:70 female:male  ratio
-77% Inclusion  Index,  compared  to 75% in 2020
-100%  of our employees  were  offered  immunity -optimizing  supplements
A year of continuous care for our people  
With the COVID -19 pandemic  continuing  to affect  many  parts  of the world,  we made  every  effort  to support  the mental and 
physical well -being  of our people  world wide. Above all, we encouraged all our employees to get  vaccinated against COVID -
19. In many regions, we also provided our employees with health screening  and flu vaccinations . In addition, we extended
our #optimizeyourimmunity campaign which provided all our employees and their family members with a free sele ction of
immunity -optimizing micronutrient supplements .
In March 2021, we launched our ‘ It’s OK’  campaign, which encouraged our employees to prioritize their mental and physical 
well-being. The campaign platform provided supporting materials developed by people throughout the company to 
improve mental and physical well -being, such as exercises, team activities and learnings , as well as resources providing 
professional help. In addition, with much of our office -based workforce  operating at least partly from  home during the 
year, we continued to put in place effective and inclusive hybrid working practices . 
Delivering  on our P&O strategy  
Besides helping our people and organization to adapt to the effects of the pandemic, we also applied our efforts to 
realizing our updated People & Organization (P&O) strategy , which had been launched at the end of 2020. This strategy is 
composed of four pi llars:  
-Creating a flotilla -style organization
-Empowering our people
-Resetting the context for leadership
-Creating a contemporary workplace
Human rights, employee engagement and Inclusion & Diversity  
We continued  our strong  commitment  to human  rights , empl oyee  engagement  and I nclusion  & Diversity.  We took steps to 
strengthen our human rights approach , including an analysis of our own operations. Furthermore, w e strive to provide our 
employees a working environment in which they can feel safe, valued, includ ed and cared for . An engaged workforce, and 
an inclusive and diverse workforce are key to enable us to achieve our company purpose.  
Aligning  our People  approach  with the Materiality  matrix 
Our approach  to People  aligns  with several  material  topics:  
-Occupational  health , safety  & well -being (addressed  in Safety  and Health & well -being )
-Human  rights  (addressed  in Human rights )
-Talent attraction & development  (addressed  in Empowering our people  and Resetting the leadership and culture
context )
-Employee inclusion & diversity (addressed  in Inclusion & diversity )
Aligning our organization to focus on Health, Nutrition & Bioscience  
With our accelerated strategy  we have been r eshaping our company  into three new Business Groups, Food & Beverage, 
Health, Nutrition & Care and Animal Nutrition & Health, which will bring us closer to our respective end -markets . This also  Report by the Managing Board – People  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  52 required adjusting our innovation structure to bringing scientific research and development  closer to our customers , 
enabling us to develop innovative solutions  at speed . In view of these changes, we are also adjusting the set -up of global 
support functions and our top leadership structure to reflect our future organization . As a result, the business -aligned 
activities  of the DSM Innovation Center were assigned to their respective Business Groups. In their new homes, these R&D 
functions are fully equipped to deliver impactful innovations to the markets they serve.  
We took important  steps  to redesign how our corporate fu nctions  – including  Finance,  Legal,  People  & Organization,  Group  
Communications  & Branding,  and Group  Digital  Services  – are structured  and how they operate.  Our primary aim was to 
strengthen and streamline functional excellence  by creating a support  model  that more  actively underpins our business  
ambitions  and enables  us to add greater value  for our customers,  and for their customers  in turn .  
By late 2021,  all our corporate  functions  had defined  roadmaps  for their transformation , drawing on the input of a range  of 
stakeholders,  including  employees.  The new operating  model  and structures  came into effect at the start of 2022. They will 
be further embedded and implemented throughout the year . Employee representation bodies  and the relevant works 
councils were consulted as part of the redesign process.  
In line with the set -up of our new organizational blueprint as a company focused on Health, Nutrition & Bioscience, the 
P&O function also streamlined its set -up to reflect the business  set-up. The design of the new target operating model  for 
P&O mirrors the set -up of the Business Groups and Innovation as well as the support functions. At the same time, the new 
organizational design aims to enable a more fluid way of working , a better employee experience , and improved 
development opportunities  for employees in the function.  
Safety, health & well-being 
Safety  
The safety, health and well -being of our employees has always been our top priority. The COVID -19 pandemic has further 
underlined the importance to address and focus on safety, health and well -being together. We adapted our ways of 
working to the constrain ts of the pandemic by supporting remote and hybrid working and continued to provide safe and 
healthy working environments in our laboratories and plants.   
We actively  monitor  occupational  and process  safety  – the safety  of our people  and operations.  We also support  the health  
and well-being  of our employees  through  regional  and global  programs.  
Aspiration  2021 2020 
Occupational safety¹  
Frequency Index REC  < 0.24 in 
2021 0.22 0.24 
Frequency Index LWC  0.12 0.09 
. 
Process safety  
PSI Rate  < 0.15 in 
2021 0.23 0.20 
. 
Occupational health cases  23 19 
1 All data presented  in People are subject to the Non-financial  reporting  policy . 
Occupational  safety  
Occupational  safety  is the safety  of our employees  and contractors.  In 2021,  we continued our improvement programs  for 
sites and injury categories with the highest incident frequency. This has resulted in a further improvement of our incident 
rate in 2021, exceeding our ambition . Our recently  acquired sites  contributed  negatively to our incident rate, both 
frequency as severity wise. Dedicated integration programs  are running to improve the safety standards and culture on 
this category of sites.  Report by the Managing Board – People  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  53 Building on our strong safety foundation, as pa rt of our DSM Responsible Care Plan update in 2021, we strengthened our 
target level  to <0.20 by no later than 2027. This target level is the next step in our ambition to make our company fully 
incident - and injury -free, and will require us to consistently  meet and exceed our current safety performance.  
Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries  
12 month moving average  
Focus  on our key initiatives  driving  success  
We decreased with more than 60% the number of recordable incidents  at the 12 sites that had the highest number of 
recordable incidents in DSM in 2020.  In addition, our global programs, including the ‘I Care, We Care’ campaign , the drive 
for visible leadership, continuous attention for our top incident categories being hand & eye safety , and the ‘ improved 
learning from incidents ’ initiative played a fundamental role in our safety improvement journey.  
We strongly  focused  on enhancing  our people’s  capabilities  and their leadership skills . In particular,  we revamped  a large  
part of our competence training program  to support  enhanced  virtual training , and we ran multiple  leadership  and 
cultural  development  programs  at sites around  the world.   
Contractor  safety   
For our contractors, the Frequency Index of all Recordable Injuri es improved to 0.41 in 2021 (versus 0.47 in 2020). Better 
supervision  and increased attention to contractor selection, qualification, and training , which led to significant 
improvements in some parts of the organization, will be rolled out further in 2022.  
Focusing  on SHE with passion  and care  
In our aspiration to become  fully incident - and injury -free, we will continue  to develop  an engaged and disciplined SHE 
culture  by means of focused  improvement programs  locally  as well as globally.  We will strengthen  the support  to our sites 
through  more  effective  collaboration  in the regions.  In addition,  we will give specific  focus  to ensuring  best-in-class 
integration  of newly  acquired  sites.   
Process  safety  
Process  safety  refers  to the safe operational  design  of our facilities.  In 2021,  our Process Safety Rate  increased  from  0.20 to 
0.23, above our target  level of 0.15. The increased  rate can be mainly  attributed  to the divestment  of Resins & Functional 
Materials and associated businesses , and the inclusion  of new acquisitions.  While we are disappointed with the 
performance,  we see that awareness of how to prevent small spills  throughout  the organization  has increased.  
Report by the Managing Board – People  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  54 Frequency Index of Process Safety Incidents  
In 2021,  we carried  out diligent  follow -up of process safety incidents  to ensure  that we captured  the lessons  learned  to 
avoid reoccurrences . Furthermore,  we undertook  process  safety  index  reduction  programs  focusing  on flange  and hose  
management,  overfill  protection,  manual  valve  operation,  and safe ‘big bag’ and ‘intermediate  bulk container ’ (IBC) 
handling.  Together  with our Life Saving Rules , these  programs  significantly  contributed  to preventing  the most  potentially  
serious  incidents.  
Health & well -being  
Occupational  healt h  
In line with our caring  culture,  we continuously  strive  to minimize exposure to potential health risks . The number of 
occupational  health  incidents  reported increased from 19 in 2020 to 23 in 2021. The increase is mainly rel ated to 3 reported 
mental health cases  in 2021 versus 0 in 2020. The real number of mental health cases may be higher. Cases may develop 
over a prolonged period of time, and causes may be present in both working and private life, with the work -related port ion 
going unacknowledged. Privacy concerns or cultural factors also influence employees’ willingness to report and discuss 
personal health issues. We launched various mental health awareness campaigns  in 2021 to increase employee awareness 
and mental resil ience and to increase transparency in the reporting of all these cases. The number of physical 
occupational health incidents  slightly increased from 19 in 2020 to 20 in 2021.  
Industrial  hygiene   
Reconfirming  the trend  of the recent  years,  the majority  of industrial hygiene -related incidents  in 2021 concerned 
ergonomic  risk factors.  We also recorded  three  cases  of allergic reactions  from  contact  with chemicals.  In 2022,  we will 
launch  improvement  programs  addressing both issues,  with a focus  on standardization,  sharing  of best practice s, 
workplace  improvement  initiatives,  and enhancing  industrial  hygiene  capabilities.  In addition,  these  programs  will have  a 
stronger  focus  on detailing the follow -up improvements .  
Preventative  measures  for occupat ional  illness  
Beyond  our dedicated  health  and safety  awareness  and behavior  initiatives,  we aim to prevent  occupational illness  
through  the design  of our products  and processes,  and by providing  high-quality protective equipment . In addition,  on-site 
medical professionals  offer  primary  care,  as well as emergency  preparedness  and first aid.  
Report by the Managing Board – People  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  55 “I am very proud of our people who were so resilient and stayed so 
committed during the numerous organizational changes we initiated 
while having to manage all the implications of COVID -19 and often 
having to work from home .” 
Geraldine Matchett, Co -CEO and Executive  Vice President  People  & Organization  a.i. 
Responding  to the pandemic’s  changing  circumstances  
Building  on their work in 2020,  our Global Response Team  continued  to help protect  the health  and safety  of our people,  in 
close  collaboration  with DSM representatives  from each  country , while  ensuring  business  continuity  as much  as possible.  
These  efforts  involved  coordinating  an effective response to the pandemic , including establishing  safe working practices . 
During  the year,  we evolved  our standardized  global  approach  to pro-actively  address  the ever-changing  circumstances of 
the pandemic,  taking  into account  the different  dynam ics in the countries  in which we are active.  
Prioritizing  physical  and mental  health  
Our COVID -19 Pulse Checks provided us with ongoing, up -to-date insights into how people felt during the pandemic. As a 
result, we launched a global health and well-being campaign  called ‘It’s OK’. The ‘It’s OK’ campaign encouraged people to 
further prioritize their own health and well -being and brought together many already  available regional resources to 
enhance individual health and well -being into a single pl atform. The campaign platform – which was visited more than 
23,000 times in the first seven months – contains many resources, including personal development courses , podcasts and 
tips on how to work more healthily . It also links up all local employee -drive n initiatives.  
For example, a  topic in the focus area of Workplace Well -being was on working off -screen . This module  provided tips to 
encourage employees to build off -screen time into their agendas, whether through off -screen (walking) meetings or 
ensuring sufficient time between computer -based activities for walks, breaks and re -energizing . In the podcast series titled  
LearnFM, guest speakers shared personal stories and practical information on health and well -being.  
In 2022, we plan to regularly update the campaign platform and strengthen the link with existing local initiatives.  
Continuing  #optimizeyourimmunity  
In 2021, we extended  our #optimizeyourimmunity  campaign. This campaign provides  all our employees  and their families 
with a free selection  of immunity -optimizing micronutrient supplements  and education to overcome the challenging 
pandemic period . In APAC  and Latin America, ampli-D®, a ready -to-launch product which is three times faster and more 
effective than traditional vitamin D , was distributed to employees working on site and from home. I n the US and 
Switzerland, all DSM employees working on site and in home office s were provided with d.velop™ , the recently launched 
product  of Hologram Sciences. d.velop™  is a holistic immunity solution with an advanced vitamin D formula, diagnostic kit, 
and digital support.  For othe r European, Middle East and African workers, ampli-D® will be made available in 2022.  
Ensuring  COVID -19-safe work  
Throughout  2021,  we continued  efforts  to provide,  often  at regional  level , solutions  that help our employees  manage the 
impact of the pandemic  on themselves  and their families.  In our operating  facilities,  measures  were taken  to reduce  
COVID -19 risks.  Additional  costs  that employees  faced  because  of a lockdown  or associated  restrictions  related  to their 
work  were also addressed.   
For employees  whose  roles  allow  working from home  on a regular  basis,  support  was provided  to facilitate  this. Efforts  
were made  to enhance  awareness  of occupational safety and healthcare  aspects  of the home office environment , for 
example via a new e -learning for all Dutch colleagues, while support  was provided  in setting  up a home  workplace , for 
instance by providing office furniture and equipment  or local subsidies, led by the Total Rewards teams .  Report by the Managing Board – People  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  56 Delivering on our P&O stra tegy  
In 2021,  we continued  to execute  our People  & Organization  (P&O)  strategy,  which  was launched  in the fourth  quarter  of 
2020.  In full alignment  with  our wider  business  ambitions,  the P&O  strategy  guides  the focus  of our P&O  function,  helps  
define  our priorities when investing in our people , and helps  to steer  the company  toward  a better  employee  experience.  
1 All data presented in People are subject to the Non-financial reporting policy. 
2 Training hours includes developmental-focused trainings and our values trainings. It excludes compliance-related trainings.  
As depicted below, our P&O strategy is centered around our Culture Compass . It has four focus areas, which aim to 
enhance our approach to organization , people , workplace , and leadership . These areas are enabled by the right rewards 
and our employee experience and analytics.  
The four focus areas of our strategy  
Creating  a flotilla -style  organization   
In 2021,  we made  significant  progress  in evolving  toward  a flotilla -style organization , in which  critical  direction  comes  from  
the center,  surrounded  by agile  units  that are empowered  to achieve  our common  goals.  We believe  that embracing  this 
model,  and integrating agile ways of working , will help us to drive  efficiency  and impact,  and enable  us to respond  more  
quickly  to external  forces.   
Empowering  our people  
In a world  characterized  by high-pace d change,  digitalization,  and business  transformation,  we aim to provide  a 
personalized and empowering environment  that encourages all our people  to take ownership  of their performance,  
development,  and careers  while  continuing  to deliver sustainable  high impact  as individuals.  To this end, we are 
developing  a wide range  of user-centric tools and solutions  to help our people  to grow,  perform,  and be at their  best.  
These  tools  enable  our people  to customize  their own personalized learning and growth path  within  the DSM framework  
and business  context  and allow  individuals  and teams  to truly take charge  of shaping  their professional development  and 
growth.  
In 2021,  we improved  and expanded  the scope  of our talent platform , offering  a new and improved  talent  experience  for 
our people.  By means  of artificial intelligence  (AI), the platform  facilitates  the matching  of talents  to opportunities  and 
developmental  tools.  In addition  to identifying  internal and external  candidates  for vacant positions, t he functionalities  
include  individualized recommendations  on projects  and mentors  that fit the employee’s profile,  in line with their  
individual  career  ambitions.  As such,  it allows  the individual  to shape  their own career  management.  
Aspiration  2021 2020 
Training¹  
Training hours per employee²  8 6 Report by the Managing Board – People  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  57 We also invested in LinkedIn Learning  to enable  systematic and personalized online  learning  and people development . 
This investment  gives our employees  access  to a comprehensive digital learning library , with over 16,000  courses  in seven  
languages.  In the first ten months  of having  LinkedIn  Learning  accessibility,  our employees  watched  over 250,000  of the 
digital  library’s  videos. These  videos  provided  learnings  relevant  to specific  employees  and to DSM’s  broader  context.  
Furthermore,  we launched  our ‘Learn Together, Grow Together’  campaign  in late 2021 to further embed a learning  culture  
and mindset  across  DSM.  Through  a series  of local and global initiatives , this campaign  encourage s employees  to take 
ownership  for their development  and personal  growth.  This activation  is a crucial  element  in fully leveraging  the tools  we 
launched  and as such,  ‘Learn  Together,  Grow  Together’  will over the next few years  visibly  foster  an environment  where  
employees  feel empowered  to deliver  sustainable  impact  as individuals.   
Creating  a contemporary  workplace   
We accelerated  the transition  toward  hybrid working  in 2021 , which  combines  both remote  and office  work.  Choosing  
hybrid  work  means  teams  are empowered  to decide  where,  when,  and how to deliver  value.  In practice,  teams  come  
together  and share responsibility  for designing  their work ing week  based  on the activities  they must  do – and how best to 
do them.  For employees  based  in plants or labs , where  the nature  of the work  requires  tasks  to be undertaken  on site, we 
explore options for flexibility.  
Our TeamPact  App supports  a tailored  approach  to team dynamics , where  each  employee’s  personal  circumstances  are 
considered.  Through  this interactive  conversation  tool, teams  can agree  where,  when,  and how they work  to deliver  on 
their objectives.  The application also prompts  and guides  teams  to help them  address obstacles  and maximize  the 
benefits  of hybrid  working.  Overall,  by reducing commuting and business travel , we aim to empower  our distributed  
workforce  and positively  impact  people,  planet,  and profit.   
We furthermore started a pilot in the Netherlands with an attendance app (Mapiq)  with the aim to hel p facilitate our 
employees going back to the offices in compliance  with the corona measures in the country. By informing our employees 
of who will be in the office on a certain day, the app facilitates employee interactions , such as face to face meetings a nd 
social engagements.  The aim is to launch this app globally.  
Beyond  hybrid  working,  and to support  the health  and well-being  of all our employees  in the context  of the pandemic  and 
shifting  work  practices,  our regional  teams  organized  a wide range  of initiatives  and programs  that help to safeguard  
physical and mental health . Among  many  of these  initiatives,  we made  available  health screenings  and checks,  offered  
sports  and yoga programs,  ordered  flu vaccinations,  and secured  oxygen  concentrators  for employees  and their families  in 
India  during a period of critical demand in early 2021 . 
In addition,  we continued  to put mental  health  at the center  of all employee  support  efforts.  Around  the world,  many  of 
our sites extended  their employee assistance programs – involving  webinars,  counseling  sessions,  and the distribution  of 
self-help material  – which  offered  emotional,  psychological,  and occupational  support  in local  languages.   
Resetting  the leadership  and culture  context  
Throughout  2021,  we continued  to integrate  our new Culture Compass , in line with our aim to embed  our culture  across all 
areas  of our employee  experience.  For the first time,  culture  awareness  and experience  were measured  within  the 
Employee Engagement Survey , scoring  an overall  76%. 
In 2021,  the Culture  Compass  was successfully  integrated  into our Performance Management system , within  an updated  set 
of behavioral  indicators  for all employee  levels,  which  feed into individual  ratings  and subsequent  rewards.  Training and 
guidance materials  were  provided  to all people  managers  to implement  the new approach.  
As in previous  years,  continuing  our regular performance and development evaluations  was key to ensure  we are a 
performance -driven  company  and that we develop  our people  for roles  today  and into the future.  In 2021,  almost  15,000 
employees  had access  to the global digital evaluation tool for performance  reviews.  All other  employees  participated  in 
performance  evaluation  on paper  or by means  of local  systems.  Report by the Managing Board – People  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  58 We continued  to mobilize  a bottom -up approach  to engaging  employees  with the new Culture  Compass via a network  of 
over 100 employee  volunteer  Culture Conversation Champions . A Culture Hub site  provided  access  to Culture  assets  and 
resources  in the different  DSM languages,  which  were used  by these  Champions  to facilitate  local  meetings,  
communications,  and events.  
A new virtual  program  ‘Leading through Culture’  was designed  to support  people  managers  to bring  culture  change  to their  
own teams.  The program received positive  feedback,  and over 50 programs  were  delivered  by the end of 2021.  Since  its 
launch,  the program  has been  updated  and is now included  within  business -owned change roadmaps  to support  culture 
and behavior  change,  in line with DSM’s  strategic  acceleration.  
Enabling  our strategy  
Modern,  flexible  rewards  
In 2021,  we continued  to adapt  the way we reward  our people  to better reflect  and enable  our key strategic  drivers.  More  
flexible reward arrangements  are needed  to meet  the diverse  challenges  and needs  of our people  and our businesses.  In 
view of this, our incentive  programs  were  further  streamlined  and better  aligned  with the respective  businesses.  Following  
the selection  of a supporting  platform  in 2021 , a pilot program  will be launched  in 2022 to help us boost  our Recognition 
Framework  to make  it more  meaningful  and tangible  for employees.  Based  on the results of the pilot,  including  employee  
feedback,  a further  roll-out will take place,  facilitating  a more  tailored  yet globally consistent approach  to reward ing and 
recogni zing specific  individual  and team  contributions.  
Our global  scale  was leveraged as part of a multi -year project  to procure employee benefits  (such as insurance) and 
manage  the associated  policies  and services  in a more  coordinated  way. Through  this initiative,  we improved  the global  
oversight,  financing,  terms  and conditions  of these  benefits  for the company and our employees.  This foundation  is 
essential  for us to offer  more  flexible rewards  going  forward.  We plan to expand  on these  efforts  in 2022 and beyond,  to 
ensure  benefits  continue  to be a key offering,  delivering  value  to our employees.  
These initiatives demonstrate that our ambition is to take a more holistic approach toward  total rewards . Current and 
future employee perceptions and input also inform our direction. In the coming year, we aim to incorporate more 
employee feedback  in the d esign of our reward offerings, with the ultimate goal of strengthening our overall employee 
value proposition  and the employee experience. By adopting a more comprehensive and integrated view of rewards, 
further embe dding  technologies  in our processes,  and incorporating  employee  as well as business  perspectives,  strategic  
decisions  will be based  on more  relevant  input.  
Employee  Experience  and Analytics  
In 2021,  we took important  next steps  toward professionalizing  our approach to analytics  and our understanding of the 
employee experience  – both of which  will increasingly  serve  as critical  drivers  of how we work  and deliver  value  for our 
people  and organization.   
To ensure  alignment  on how we understand  and drive  employee  experience  forward,  we designed  our Employee 
Experience Vision.  While  employee  experience  is personal,  this Vision  outlines  our ambitions  to create  an environment  in 
which  our employees  feel taken  care of, engaged,  empowered,  able to deliver,  and able to grow.  On top of this, it outlines  a 
set of key principles  on how we want  to get there,  including  but not limited  to ensuring  consistency  and transparency  in 
how we communicate  and act as an organization.  The Vision  will serve  as a powerful  foundation  from  which  to develop our 
employee  experience  efforts  going  forward.  
Furthermore,  to deliver  on our ambition  to become  a truly data-driven  P&O function,  we made  a significant  investment  in 
increasing  data transparency . In particular,  we selected  a new data and insights platform  that integrates  and structures  
our most  critical  people  and organization  data.  With intuitive,  pre-built analytics,  the platform  delivers  people and 
organizational insights  fast, allowing  us to drive  decision -making.  In 2022,  we will roll out this platform  to our P&O 
colleagues  around  the globe  and leverage  it as a catalyst  to further  embed  data-driven  decision -making  into our ways  of 
working  and continuously  improve  our data foundations.  Report by the Managing Board – People  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  59 We aspire to become a more data-driven P&O function  and employee -centric organization  and have made this central to 
our agenda. In the years ahead, we  aim to further scale the impact and reach of our analytics and employee experience 
efforts  by: 
-Further professionalizing  the way we listen  and respond  to our employees’  needs  and expectations
-Building capabilities  in human -centered  design  across  the organization
-Driving synergies  between  key processes,  initiatives  and technology  by working  in a more  integrated,  cross -
functional  and harmonized  way to drive  forward  our strategic  agenda
Human rights  
We strongly believe that it is our duty to respect internationally recognized human rights, including the rights of people 
along our entire value chain. Hu man rights are integral to our purpose -led and performance -driven strategy. We believe 
that the basic rights and freedoms to which all people are entitled should be understood, respected, and promoted by all 
companies as the cornerstone of responsible busi ness.  
2021 2020 
Gender pay gap¹ ²  7% 8% 
. 
Living wage  
Employees below lower -bound  0% - 
Employees below higher -bound  < 0.1%  < 2% 
1 Gender pay gap percentages are in favor of women. Percentage excludes Pentapharm (Switzerland & Brazil), Jiangshan, Twilmij a nd 
Erber.  
2 All data presented in People are subject to the Non-financial reporting policy . 
Respecting human rights means that we follow international guidelines and implement the United Nations Guiding 
Principles (UNGPs). We have further elaborated on this in our (revised) human rights policy , available on our company 
website , in which we also set out our governance structure ( DSM’s Human Rights Steering Committee  and assignment of 
the role of DSM’s Human R ights Lead) and our due diligence processes  for identifying and mitigating risks. Grievances 
relating to human rights are addressed according to the Code of Business Conduct and our whistleblower procedure, DSM 
Alert.  
Strengthening our human rights approa ch 
In 2021, we took important steps to strengthen our approach to human rights, as well as to further embed this approach 
throughout our operations. For example, we undertook an in -depth analysis of salient human rights issues  in our own 
operations and con ducted a human rights impact assessment  in India. Through this impact assessment, we were able to 
identify key points for improvement for upholding human rights in India, as well as for our global approach to human 
rights. Looking ahead, many of these poin ts for improvement will be further included in national action plans  as well as in 
our global Human Rights Roadmap . Specifically, topics such as living wage and grievance mechanisms will be further 
explored.  
Through virtual learning sessions, DSM’s Managi ng Board and Executive Committee also received an in -depth training on 
human rights. Tailored training will be provided to other targeted audiences throughout 2022.  
A focus on salient issues  
In 2021, we started to implement due diligence  structurally as part of our human rights approach. This approach meant a 
review and relaunch of our human rights policy , and a more elaborate and inclusive salience analysis of our potential 
human rights risks. This analysis identifies the salient issues  that have the pot ential for the most severe negative impact 
through our activities or business relationships , and allows us to better prioritize and focus on the most severe potential 
impacts. Our salient human rights issues are child labor, health and safety, living wage,  forced labor, migrant workers, 
harassment, land acquisition and resettlement, human rights defenders, and freedom of expression and rights issues from 
industrial agriculture. These issues will be the focus points of our human rights work in the years to c ome and are Report by the Managing Board – People  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  60 included in our human rights roadmap . We recognize that other human rights may become greater priorities over time, 
and we will regularly review our focus areas.  
Fair remuneration  
DSM is committed to the principle of equal opportunities for all employees , which includes providing our employees with a 
living wage. We align our calculations with the Anker methodology ( Anker and Anker 2017 ). We also aim to reward our 
employees for their overall contributions to the company, setting equal pay for men and women  doing similar work that 
requires equivalent qualifications and skills. Our Fair Remuneration Statement, availa ble on our company website , further 
elaborates on our position.  
Gender pay gap and equal pay  
We continue to use the GRI 405 -2 topic disclosure as guidance for calculating our gender pay gap . Our 2021 results showed 
a gender pay gap of 7% in favor of women, (female:male pay ratio of 107:100), a change of 7 percentage point compared to 
2020, which i s mainly due to changes in the average salary of both genders and headcount fluctuations in the 6 regions . 
This ratio is based on validated employee base pay data for locations where we have significant operations  and covers 
approximately 66% of our global  employee base. These operations include Brazil, China, India, the Netherlands, 
Switzerland and the US, excluding our operations in Pentapharm ( Switzerland  and Brazil ), Erber (all countries), Twilmij 
(Netherlands) and Jiangshan (Jiangsu Province, China). T he pay gap can primarily be attributed to a higher proportion of 
male employees in lower -level positions, and it does not necessarily indicate if we pay men and women equally for doing 
similar work.  
We aim to make further progress in the area of equal pay . Throughout 2021, we continued our partnership with AnalitiQs to 
develop an advanced analytical model  that will allow us to investigate background variables in much greater depth and 
obtain useful insights. We concluded that a more holistic approach to eq ual opportunities is needed to allow us to further 
advance in this regard. This will also require cross -functional collaboration  including linkages with data analytics and 
diversity, equity and inclusion. In 2022, we will continue to further advance the us e of the analytical model and renew our 
focus on opportunities within the cross -functional approach.  
Living wage  
We are committed to paying a living wage to all  our employees based on WageIndicator’s benchmark methodology. We 
have started with our signif icant locations of operations (defined above). W e aim to expand  the number  of countries  
included  in this analysis  over the coming years . In 2021, we assessed wage levels against WageIndicator’s typical family  
with higher -bound  (our target level) and lower -bound  (for comparative purposes) living wage figures.  WageIndicator’s 
methodology uses the following definitions:  
-The typical  family  is defined as two adults with a number of  children derived from the national fertility rate
-The employment rate  is defined as one adult working full -time, while the employment rate of the other adult is
derived from the national employment rate
-The higher -bound  uses prices (for housing, food and  other indispensable goods or services) at the 50 th percentile
(where 50% of people report higher prices), while the lower -bound  uses prices at the 25 th percentile (where 75%
of people report higher prices)
Based on our assessment, two employees (less than 0.1% of employees in scope) are paid below the higher-bound living 
wage  figures These employees left the company in 2021, so no corrective action can be taken in 2022. No employees were 
paid below the typical family with lower-bound living wage  figures. 
Employee engagement 
We strive t o provide an employee experience where everyone can feel safe, valued and included, and where every 
employee can offer their unique contribution. An engaged workforce is essential for our organization to have impact 
and deliver on our purpose, and engaging with our employees in 2021, with the pandemic ongoing, was crucial. We did 
so in a variety of ways, with online webcasts, virtual family days and employee events, regular newsletters and regional 
events with our Co-CEOs, executive calls and annual conferences. 
 Report by the Managing Board – People  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  61 Aspiration  2021 2020 
Engagement Index¹ >75% by
2021 76% 76% 
Participation Rate 92% 92% 
1 All data presented in People are subject to the Non-financial reporting policy. 
We monito r our employe e engagement  and well-bei ng throug h a variet y of survey s and ‘check -ins’. In 2021 , thes e included 
our COVID- 19 Pulse Check s (unti l March) , and our Employe e Engageme nt Survey (EES) . Continuou s listeni ng to our 
employee s is core to shaping the DS M employe e experience , providi ng insight s that can quickl y translat e to actions and 
impact . This strateg y will provi de insight s that can be continuousl y translate d into releva nt insight s and actio ns regarding 
the employe e experie nce and to infor m better-qualit y decisions. 
We also employed additional communication efforts to keep employees informed and engaged, including through our 
internal news platform and by mobilizing our regional network of Engagement Champions  to deploy engagement best 
practices locally. 
The Employe e Engageme nt Survey 
Our annua l Employe e Engagemen t Survey  helps us understa nd ho w our employee s fee l at work and wher e we nee d to 
impro ve our employe e experience . The Survey reflect s the views of our payroll employee s (in Octobe r 2021) and excludes 
recent acquisitio ns and divestments . The response s we recei ve enabl e us to initiat e fruitfu l conversations and lead to 
concret e positi ve change s in ou r workplace . The feedbac k we receive d in the 202 0 Employe e Engageme nt Survey , for 
example , was reflected i n our approac h to hybrid working a nd a health & well-being campaign i n 2021.  
In 2021 , manager s whos e team  include d five or more surve y respondent s were eligibl e to recei ve specifi c team reports 
online ; this amounted t o mor e than 1950 manager s (an increas e of mor e than 15 0 compared t o 2020) . To hel p managers 
share result s with thei r teams , lead conversatio ns and agree actions , traini ng and suppor t were availabl e from survey 
champio ns as well as P&O a nd communicatio ns colleagues . Furthermore , a globa l digital platform wa s set up with 
concret e tips , tricks , and material s on how to continu e the dialogu e on engageme nt throughou t the yea r as wel l as a link 
to loca l champio ns to suppor t that process. 
How we measur e Employe e Engagement 
We measur e fou r engageme nt attributes : commitment , pride, advocacy , and satisfaction . The 2021 EES retaine d the 
structur e and conte nt of the previou s survey , comprisi ng questio ns on safety , engagement , management , inclusio n and 
other key themes , but we also introduce d three new questio ns that were specifi c to each Busines s Grou p. Thi s meant our 
Busines s Group s receive d more targeted insights int o employe e engagemen t as well as allowi ng us to  identif y topic s that 
we can investigat e furthe r in futur e surveys .  
The EES als o offere d spac e for  employee s to provi de comments : more than 50,00 0 comments  were receive d in 2021 . In 
approximatel y 70% of the co mments , employee s expressed positi ve feedbac k on the announced strategi c direction o f the 
company , as well as their overal l pride in worki ng for DSM. Anothe r key topic that emerged fro m the co mment s was related 
to work-lif e balance , includi ng the cha lleng e of keeping this balanced in COVID-1 9 times while working from home. 
Engagemen t level s remai n high 
In 2021 , the surve y was sent to all employee s and was availabl e in 23 languages . We saw a respons e rate of 92% , equa l to 
the highes t recorde d rat e (in 201 9 and 2020) since the firs t editio n of the surve y in 2007. 
Overal l employe e engageme nt remaine d at the sam e leve l as 2020 at 76% , while ma ny of our comparabl e questio ns and 
indexe s saw an increase . We made progres s in our 2020 focus areas: Talent ros e from 67% in 2020 to 70% in 2021 (including 
a 3% improveme nt on the questio n relati ng to learning a nd developme nt opportunities , from 74% to 77%) ; and Inclusion 
improved fro m 75% to 77%. We als o maintaine d our Safety scor e at 93% . The Strateg y questio n on employees’ view s on the 
company’s ‘ promisi ng future’  was 82%, indicati ng a positive reactio n to, and suppor t for, the acceleratio n of ou r strategic 
journey. Report by the Managing Board – People  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  62 Above  all, the results  underline  the positive  effects  of our active  efforts  to maintain  high levels  of engagement  during  the 
pandemic  through  strong and clear communication , new work flexibility  and more  visible leadership . Our targeted  
engagement  improvement  programs  have  also had a positive  effect  according  to the responses received,  with improved  
engagement  scores  in the 25 sites with the lowest  scores  in the 2020 EES. These improved results were attributable to 
three programs : Personal Development  (focused  on improving  an individual’s  development  and making  support  more  
accessible ), Team Building  (ranging  from  more  frequent  meetings,  to socializing  and improving  communications ), and 
Reorganization  (where structural  changes  to a team  were  implemented) . 
Identifying  and addressing  areas  for improvement  
While  our Engagement  Index  remains  at 76%, and the majority  (77%)  of the comments  were  positive,  with broad  support  for 
our strategic  announcement,  the survey  highlighted  a few key areas of concern . These  included  below -average  scores  in 
‘career opportunities’  and some losses  in Inclusion .  
The combination  of positive  and sub-par scores,  as well as the emerging  themes  of well-being  and work -life balance  which 
emerged via employee comments , provided  us with direction  for the following  focus areas:   
-Managers : we will continue  to build  on positive  behaviors,  manage  development  initiatives,  and support  improved
processes  for effective  managing
-Talent : we will accelerate  the focus  on career  development
-Inclusion : we will continu e to build  inclusion  practices,  paying  attention  to target  groups  covered  by our five
Inclusion & Diversity (I&D) p illars,  and identified  by internal  surveys  such  as EES or regional  I&D Surveys
-Well-being : we will maintain  focus  on this area by integrating  employee  health  & well-being  programs
These  areas  are all addressed  through  our People  & Organization  strategy  and our dedicated  Inclusion  & Diversity  
strategy.  In addition,  we will continue  to share regular,  open,  and transparent  communications  that inspire employees to 
participate in  the company’s transformation  journey.  
Inclusion & diversity  
In 2021,  we continued  our efforts  to ensure  that  all our people  feel included  and cared  for. Fostering  and maintaining  an 
inclusive  and diverse  workplace  is key to helping  our employees  offer  their  best,  most  authentic  contribution,  and is a 
prerequisite  for delivering  on our ambitions  and accelerating  our strategic  transformation.  We accelerated  progress  on 
our five diversity  pillars  – Gender,  Race,  Ethnicity  & National  Identity,  LGBTQ+,  Disability  and Generations  - by identifying  
three  focus  areas  in which  to apply  our efforts:  recruitment,  development,  and inclusion.   
Aspiration  2021 2020 
Inclusion index¹  77% 75% 
. 
Internationalization & diversity  
Female executives  25% by 2021  23% 21% 
Under -represented nationalities  35% by 2021  31% 30% 
1 All data presented in People are subject to the Non-financial reporting policy. Report by the Managing Board – People  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  63 I&D Governance Framework  
DSM’s Governance framework for Inclusion & Diversity ensures strong ownership and steering  on the part of executive and 
senior leadership,  with operational responsibility shared between the business and regions.  
In 202 1, we further embedded the framework with our Co-CEOs sharing the Chair for the I&D Council , and each Executive 
Committee membe r taking active sponsorship  of one of the five pillars  (depicted above) . The direction of our I&D strategy , 
along with our  commitments , were discussed and agreed at the Executive Committee.  
Our Inclusion & Diversity Council - which provides input to I&D s trategy and drives program activation – is composed of 
Regional Presidents , business leaders and Employee Resource Group  leads.  Additionally , each region has a nominated I&D 
Lead to drive and coordinate locally relevant activities, with support from the co rporate I&D team.  
The focus areas for I&D: Recruitment, development and inclusion  
A wide range  of initiatives  was undertaken  within  these  three focus areas  by our global  Inclusion  & Diversity  (I&D) team,  in 
close  collaboration  with regional  teams  and Employee  Resource  Groups.  These  initiatives  aim to diversify  our current and 
future talent pools , improve  development opportunities  for underrepresented  groups,  and ensure a psychologically safe 
and inclusive working environment  where  all our colleagues  can be their authentic  selves . Our efforts  are reflected  in the 
increase  of our inclusion  score  (+2%),  which  is even  more  evident  in our regions  such as China  (+5%)  and Latin  America  
(+4%).   
Expanding our I&D network  
Since  the launch of the new I&D strategy  in 2020,  our I&D network  has expanded  significantly  through active  Employee 
Resource Groups  and regional  I&D teams.  The numerous  initiatives  and events  of this network  contribute  to positive  
increases  in inclusion  scores.  Examples  of such  initia tives include : 
-I&D forums  on gender,  generation  and LGBTQ+  in China
-Launch of a cross -organizational  I&D working  group  in collaboration  with the Dutch  Embassy  in Japan
-Implementation of women -enabling  policies  in India
-DSM Netherlands  signed  the Sociaal Economische Raad  (SER)  Diversity  Charter
-Launch  of a ‘Just About  Inclusion’  initiative  in Switzerland
-The development of a mentoring  and sponsorship  program  for Black  and African -American  employees  in North
America
-The development of a joint commit ment  to I&D with a network  of suppliers  in Latin America
Our performance on our I&D targets  
In 2021, we realized a 2% increase  in the percentage of executive women , from 21% to 23%, reflect ing changes  implemented  
in our talent  acquisition  and recruitment  processe s, which included 50:50 gender -diverse shortlists  and unconscious bias 
awareness sessions  for recruiters . We increased our percentage of under -represented executives  from 30% to 31%. Despite 
this, w e underperformed  against  our 2021 targets for female  (25%) and under -represented groups (35%) at executive levels.  
Report by the Managing Board – People  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  64 Several  factors  influenced  this outcome,  including  the divestment  of Resins & Functional Materials and associated 
businesses , competition  for high-profile  candidates  in a buoyant  market,  and the impact of ongoing  DSM transformation  
initiatives.   
With the current targets expiring in 2021, our global I&D team worked close ly with stakeholders to agree new ambitious 
I&D commitments  for the period 2022 -2025. These include:  
-30% of our executives to be female by 2025
-40% of our executives to be from currently under -represented nationalities by 2025
-Global business and function al Leadership Teams  to be a minimum 30% diverse by  gender and nationalities by
2025
In addition and in line with our broader commitments to the five p illars of I&D, the r egions will take ownership for 
achieving  progress via locally -relevant programs , following our overall focus on recruitment, development and inclusion.  
Regional I&D surveys, supported by the corporate team, were  delivered in 2021, providing not only useful baseline data for 
identifying priorities, but also of fering employees the opportunity to self-identify on demographics  that we cannot track 
globally. This type of diversity data is collected and managed following all data privacy and GDPR guidelines, securing 
employees’ anonymity. 
On the basis of this insig ht, and local  factors, regions are initiating programs such as  improving  access to employment for 
people with disabilities , ensuring equality in policies and benefits  for LGBTQ+ colleagues, and awareness and education 
initiatives.  
Finally, we will continu e to invest in creating a culture where diversity thrives. In 2022 we launch a new inclusion program , 
Brighter Together 2.0,  for all teams . Ultimately DSM commits to workplaces where business goals are achieved with respect 
for people’s dignity and their h uman rights . Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  65 Planet  
At a glance  
-27%1 absolute reduction of scope 1 + 2 greenhouse gas emissions versus baseline 2016
-~23% structural improvement of scope 1 + 2 greenhouse gas emissions versus baseline 2016
-8% scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions intensity improvement versus baseline 2016
-72% purchased electricity from renewable resources
-6.0% energy efficiency improvement, year -on-year
-7.8% water efficiency improvement in water -stressed sites versus 2020
We take our global environmental responsibilities  very seriously. These extend beyond our  own operations to include 
those of our suppliers, customers and end -users . We fulfill our environmental responsibilities  through our portfolio of 
Brighter Living Solutions, our Safety, Health & Environmental (SHE) policy, and our position on issues such a s product 
stewardship and biodiversity. We focus on:  
-Improving  our own environmental footprint
-Enabling  our customers  to do the same through innovative solutions
-Advocating  on our key environmental topics
At the end of 2021, o ur operations network span ned more than 100 commercial production facilities  in 41 countries. Our 
operational approach is guided by the DSM Responsible Care Plan, described below, and supports the Sustainable 
Development Goals  (SDGs), especially  SDG 7 (Affordable and Clean Energy), SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption and 
Production) and SDG 13 (Climate Action). Our Planet reporting addresses  our performance on  several material topics 
identified in our Materiality matri x: 
-Climate mitigation
-Climate adaptation
-Waste & circularity
-Nature & biodiversity
-Water stewardship
-Product stewardship
We made good progress on our environmental ambitions, as defined in our 
Responsible Care Plan  
The DSM Responsible Care Plan (DRCP) i s aligned  with our strategy . The DRCP defines our ambitions, targets and actions 
in the Planet -related fields of environmental footprint, value chain sustainability  and climate adaptation.  
Our key targets are our Science Base d Targets  
The key targets in the DRCP are our Science  Based Targets  (SBT)  that represent our contribution to climate change 
mitigation. In 2021, we increased our ambition level  based on our strong performance on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
reductions an d to reflect the latest scientific insights from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change  (IPCC). Our SBT 
are an absolute reduction of GHG emissions  from our operations (scope 1 + 2) by 50% (strengthened from 30% in 2021) and 
a value chain (scope 3) i ntensity reduction of 28%, both by 2030 versus our 2016 baseline. These are also the foundation 
for our net -zero-by-2050 commitment. The independent Science Based Targets initiative  reviewed and approved our  
targets  first in early 2019 and again for our step -up in ambition in 2021.  
1 All data presented in Planet are subject to the Non-financial reporting policy . Report by the Managing Board – Planet  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  66 Our scope 1 + 2 target is supported by our renewable electricity target  (75% of purchased electricity to be sourced from 
renewables by 2030 and reaching 100% at the earliest possibility) and our annual average energy efficiency improvement 
of at least 1% until 2030. Our scope 3 target is supported by the CO2REDUCE program.  
Besides  mitigating climate change, we are also working on  climate adaptation . In 2020 –2021, we conducted physical risk 
assessments on our top 30 sites to improve the resilience  of our assets against potential physical impacts  of climate 
change. In 2021, we a lso established and piloted a process in two Business Groups to identify and assess the potential 
impacts of the different speeds of transition  to a net -zero world . We will  expand and continue this work iteratively in  the 
coming years.  More information on our risk assessment is provided in Risk management . 
Our other company targets are driving improvements in the areas of water, waste, other emissions and substances of 
concern. We will continue to drive the various water improvement plans  that we identified during the water risk 
assessments in the past year . We committed to reduce our water intake in water -stressed areas . Furthermore, we continue 
to enhance our insights and capabilities to steer waste reductions  and we are further developing action plans for  products 
containing  substances of very high concern . We regularly review progress on our plans and update our target s accordingly. 
Our target setting process is underpinned by the plans and measures needed for their realization.  
In 2021, we made good progress on the key objectives of the DRCP as reported elsewhere in this section. DRCP 2019 –2021 
was successfully  deliver ed, with GHG emissions reductions  ahead of plan and top-quartile safety performance . Our new 
2022–2024 DRCP fully aligns with our updated strategy and reflects the industry’s standards and expectations. Our key 
topics remain  climate  and safety , with other key topics of product stewardship, industrial hygiene, employee health & well -
being,  water  and waste and biodiversity. Due to decreased materiality to the company, topics that are more specifically 
aimed at the chemical industry (e.g., volatile organic com pounds and waste recycled) will be monitored, but no target level 
is defined. Additional  information about our Planet performance  is provided in the five-year summary – sustainability 
tables , our Value creation model  and Stakeholder engagement . 
Climate mitigation  
In 2015, the Paris Agreement first established a common ambition to take urgent action on GHG emissions to limit 
average temperature increases to well below 2°C. Later in 2018, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 
provided a clear and compelling case to redouble efforts to limit warming to 1.5°C. Our fair share of this ambition 
requires our emissions to reach  net-zero by 2050  with a rapid accelerati on of the  rate of our emission reductions over the 
coming decade  — these are specified in our net -zero commitment and Science Based Targets (SBT).  
Aspiration  2021 2020 
Greenhouse gas scope 1 + 2 (market -based)¹  
Absolute reduction (SBT) versus 2016  50% by 2030²  27% 
Estimated structural improvement versus 2016  approx. 23%  
Scope 1 + 2 emissions (million tons CO₂eq)  1.21 1.24 
Corrected baseline (2016, in million tons CO₂eq)  1.66 1.65 
. 
Greenhouse gas scope 3  
Intensity reduction (SBT versus 2016)  28% by 2030  8% 5% 
Scope 3 emissions (million tons CO₂eq)  11.7 12.0 
. 
Energy  
Purchased electricity from renewable sources  75% by 2030  72% 60% 
Energy efficiency improvement year -on-year > 1% 6.0% 5.7% 
Primary energy use (PJ)  21.4 21.5 
Final consumed energy (PJ)  18.8 18.2 
1 All data presented in Planet  are subject to the  Non-financial reporting policy . 
2 Target level s trengthened in 2021 from 30% by 2030.  Report by the Managing Board – Planet  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  67 Aligning our climate approach with science  
We were one of the first companies to align our efforts with the latest science as presented in the IPCC Special Report 
‘Global Warming of 1.5°C ’ by setting a long -term pathway to reach net-zero GHG emissions across our operations and value 
chains by 2050. Our  Science Based Targets  are the intermediate step  to achieve this goal, supported by our ambitions 
regarding renewable electricity  and energy efficiency , and by working intensively with our key suppliers through our 
CO2REDUCE program . This requires transforming  our operations and value chain s.  
We are working with  long-term innovation roadmaps  that will bring us as close to zero emissions as possible in the 
coming decades. This includes investments in a portfolio  of solutions that can help our customers to do the same. We will 
also eventually deploy  permanent carbon removals  to neutralize any residual emissions to reach ou r net-zero ambitions. 
These removals will need to meet the highest qualit y criteria and social and environmental safeguards . Our net -zero 
activities are guided by the SBTi NetZero Standard  and Business Ambition for 1.5°C commitment  framework.  
“We continue to show good progress on our climate  targets. Our 
climate action plan identifies the key measures that are important 
for DSM, including our emissions reduction programs for our own 
operations and supply chain, and steps to improve our resilience. 
Our Food System Commitments demonstrate the i mpact of our 
products on society. Beyond our  own value chain, accelerating global 
climate action is a key pillar of our agenda. ” 
Dimitri de Vreeze, Co -CEO, Royal DSM  
Business measures supporting our climate approach  
In support of our ambition to substantia lly reduce our carbon footprint , we have introduced key measures which we apply 
to all growth projects . Since 2019, business  growth projects must either be  GHG-neutral  or else be compensated for within 
the same business.  
In addition, to encourage investments in low -carbon and carbon -free technologies, we use an internal carbon price  (ICP) 
in the valuations of key investment projects and in the Profit and Loss statement s of the Business Groups for internal 
management reporting. This increases the visibility of, and encourages accountability for, the impact of carbon  emissions 
on the business.  In 2021, we increased the ICP from €50/t CO 2eq to €100/t CO 2eq to better reflec t the updated insights into 
the actual price of CO 2 to society. This price is also within the ranges of the scenarios we use for assessing climate 
transition risks.  
Ownership of climate actions is at Executive Committee level  
The DSM climate action agenda  brings together our key climate actions  addressing the three 
pillars of improve , enable  and advocate . The progress of the agenda, including the 
implementation of the Taskforce on Climate -related Financial Disclosures (T CFD) 
recommendations, the GHG reduction program , our portfolio developments  and efforts to 
advocate for accelerated transition  with partners , are managed and actively reviewed by the 
Executive Committee several times a year.  
Concrete actions within the agen da are owned by individual Executive Committee members  
including  the development of our  internal carbon price , advancing  our low -carbon portfolio , 
oversight of our climate advocacy , and engagements with climate -focused investors . Through the agenda, we ens ure that 
the business opportunities  related to mitigation and adaptation, and the identified transition and physical risks  of climate 
change , are addressed. Our climate change strategy received an  A rating from CDP in 202 1. 
Report by the Managing Board – Planet  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  68 Scope 1 + 2 GHG emissions  
On track with our scope 1 + 2 target  
We are well on track to deliver our increased ambition of 5 0% absolute reduction by 2030 . Our scope 1 + 2 market -based 
GHG emissions improved by 27% (compared to 25% in 2020) versus  our corrected 2016 baseline. This was due to a 
significant year -on-year GHG reduction  at our existing sites, which compensated for the expected GHG increase from 
inorganic growth . Total scope 1 + 2 emissions were 1.21 million tons of CO 2eq in 2021, a decrease of nearly 40 kt CO 2eq 
compared to 2020. Our GHG efficiency (year -on-year) improved by 15% in 2021.  
Scope 1 + 2 reductions versus corrected baseline  
Correcting our baseline in 2021 
Our baseline GHG emissions figure of 2016 was  increased to 1.66 million tons of CO2eq, due to the inclusion of 14 acquired 
sites in our reporting scope in the period 201 7–2021, the divestment of Resins and Functional Materials and associated 
businesses (pro -rata),  and the impact of methodology changes. Four newly bu ilt sites were also added to the reporting 
scope ; however , as they were constructed after 2016, they have no impact on the baseline correction.   
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  69 2016
 GHG Baseline correction  
In thousand tons CO 2eq 
Our GH
G reduction program  
In order to achieve the targeted absolute GHG reduction by 2030, we continued our dedicated program to help our key 
locations implement appropriate energy transition , including  energy efficiency  measures. We use  performance 
diagnostics  as well as self -assessments that are carried out at key sites to ident ify GHG emission reduction 
opportunities . The learnings from these sites are shared across all sites to enable further roll -out of improvement 
projects.  
As a result of our progress in these areas,  the overall structural improvement  in our scope 1 +2 GHG emissions increased 
from ~ 18% to ~ 23% from 2020 to 2021.   
Energy transition  
Our greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reductions are driven by a rigorous energy transition program, consisting of the following elements:  
-Reduction of total energy consumption  through energy efficiency improvement measures
-Energy transition to more energy fr om renewable sources , via increasing the amount of purchased and self -
generated renewable electricity, and the amount of consumed renewable fuel and heat
-Driving smart electrification , combined with energy efficiency improvements  that enables a shift to t he use of
electricity from renewable sources instead of fossil fuels
Examples of projects that we started or implemented in 2021 on these energy transition drivers are described below.  
Energy efficiency improvement s 
Our energy efficiency impr ovement (on p rimary energy)  was 6.0% versus 2020 , above our target of an average annual 
improvement of 1% . This is mainly due to a portfolio of rigorous energy saving projects and product volume and product 
mix changes.   1,650 1,662
758
-53
Baseline in
2020Acquisitions         Divestments
(pro-rata)Methodology
changesNew Baseline
in 2021Report by the Managing Board – Planet Report by the Managing Board – Planet  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  70 Energy efficiency2 
Projects finalized in 2020 began delivering full benefits  in 202 1, adding up to approximately 20 kt of CO 2eq reduction on the 
2021 emissions. Most projects also deliver additional benefits  such as cost savings or water savings. Examples of projects 
resulting in lower energy use are  improvements of steam and hot oil systems  (such as leakage repairs, condensate return, 
heat recovery on furnaces and insulation) at various locations ( ~6 kt CO 2eq reduction ); the replacement of steam -driven 
chillers by electricity  (partially renewable) operated in Jiangshan (Jiangsu province, China), contributing ~7 kt CO 2eq; and 
the replacement of low -efficiency chillers in León (Spain), contributing ~ 1 kt CO 2eq reduction ). Besides improving heating 
and cooling equipment, we also increased the efficiency of our compressed air and nitrogen systems  at various locations 
through leakages repair and equipment upgrades. Another focus area is heat integration , which we a pplied on various 
locations such as Lalden (Switzerland), Village -Neuf (France) and Dalry (UK).  
In 2021, we further strengthened our approach to replace aged and low -efficiency cooling  by state -of-the-art machines, 
applying – ahead of local legislation – low global warming potential (GWP) refrigerants in, for example, Xinghuo (Shanghai 
province, China), Jiangshan (Jiangsu province, China), Laiwu (Shandong province, China) and Seclin (France). We installed 
solar panels  at our location in El Salto (Mexico) to  enable a local transition to renewable electricity. Besides improving the 
efficiency of our equipment, we also apply innovative solutions with new technologies. An example is the installation of an 
industrial heat pump  in Exton ( Pennsylvania, USA) where h eat from a cooling machine is used to pre -heat boiler feed 
water.  
Renewable energy  
We are a proud member of the Climate Group ’s RE100, comprising leading companies that have committed to sourcing 
100% of their electricity from renewable sources  at the earl iest possible opportunity. Our commitment is to source 75% of 
our electricity from renewable sources by 2030 at the latest and  100% at the earliest possible opportunity .  
2 All data presented in Planet are subject to the Non-financial reporting policy . 
Report by the Managing Board – Planet  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  71 Renewable Electricity  
In 202 1, we once again made significant steps toward  achieving  our purchased renewable electricity target . The percentage 
of purchased electricity from renewable sources increased globally from 60% in 2020  to 72% in 2021, equaling a GHG 
emission reduction year -on-year in purchased non -renewable electricity of 52 kt CO 2eq. 
Progress on purchased renewable electricity in Europe  and North America  
For our operations in Europe, we maintained 100% renewable electricity through existing agreements combined with pre -
production guarantees of origin (GOs) from the Powe r Purchase Agreement  (PPA) in Spain . The wind park of the latter PPA 
commenced operations in late 2021 while the solar assets are currently  under construction. Furthermore, a new hydro 
agreement for 2022 was concluded in Switzerland to replace a contract t hat terminated at the end of 2021. 
In the US, a third PPA was concluded in 2021 adding to the two PPAs already in place . The first is already operational and 
produces  electricity from wind , while the assets for the other two are  yet to be built and will provide solar -powered 
electricity . The production from the first agreement combined with pre -production renewable energy certificates  (RECs) 
from the other agreements means we had 100% coverage (of continuing operations) of purchased electricity from  
renewable sources  in the US in 2021.  
Progress on purchased renewable electricity in China  
For 2021, we  concluded two renewable electricity contracts in China. This provided 91% renewable electricity  for Laiwu 
(Shandon g province, China ), and 32% and 17% renewable electricity respectively for Jiangyin and Jiangshan (Jiangsu 
province, China). In addition, we concluded purchasing agreements  to provide  renewable electricity in 2022 for all four 
sites in J iangsu province  which will cover a significant portion of their demand .  
Renewable electricity in the rest of the world  
Besides Europe, North America and China, three -quarter s of our purchased electricity in Brazil  is from renewable sources , 
and we have several local renewable electricity contracts  at smaller sites around the world . The amount of non -renewable 
electricity in the rest of the world  represents  less than 5 % of our total purchased electricity.  
Working on renewable heat  
Besides taking  significant steps to increase our amount  of purchased renewable electricity , we also look for opportunities 
for the broader use of  renewable energy sources . Certain sites across DSM already recover waste streams  for production of 
renewable heat while others are in an exploratory phase. Besides  the already concluded sustainable biomass 
cogeneration project  in Sisseln  (Switzerland) , our hydrocolloids site in Chifeng (Inner Mongolia, China) replaced its self-
produce d steam based on coal with purchased steam produced from local biomass residues . The Chifeng  biomass plant is 
a cogeneration system that supplies steam to our DSM site and other industrial park users via  a long-term contract with 
Report by the Managing Board – Planet  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  72 ENN Energy , while the  electricity is sold to the grid. By introducing this contract , Chifeng was able to  avoid ~25 kt CO2eq in 
2021 (its first fully operational year), of which around 9 kt CO 2eq is a structural improvement  from 2020 to 2021 .   
In alignment with external guidance and experts, we established the  foundation  for the sustainability criteria  of our 
purchased renewable fuels and heat. Use of biomass for thermal energy is guided by strict sustainability criteria , where 
the primary  focus is on the use of local waste and residues as feedstock  for the (co)generation of  energy  (including 
organic solid/ liquid waste, agricultural residues and forestry management residues ). Besides  the feedstock used, we also 
set criteria on carbon paybac k times , minimum GHG reduction potential  and management of soil health, water and 
biodiversity  impacts. The new set of criteria  aims to  ensure that any step taken in this direction supports the responsible 
transition  toward  decarbonized operations and to f urther expand sustainable renewable energy consumption in DSM.  
Scope 3 GHG emissions  
Our scope 3 emissions  
Our absolute scope 3 GHG emissions amounted to  11.7 million tons of CO 2eq in 2021, which is a decrease of 0.3 million tons 
of CO 2eq compared to reported emissions in 2020. This is an increase of 0.8  million tons compared to the previous year on 
a like -for-like basis , taking the divestment of our Resins and Functional Materials and associated businesses into account. 
The increase was primarily driv en by more sourced volume  (as a result of increased production volumes) in continued 
operations  resulting in an  increase in emissions from Purchased Goods and Services .  
The main scope 3 categories in the 202 1 figures remain emissions from  the categories  Purchased Goods and Services  and 
End-of-Life Treatment of Sold Products , accounting for almost  90% of total scope 3 emissions. End-of-life emissions  
increased slightly compared to 2020 , due to  increased sales volume s. 
In 2021, one of the highlights in this area was the positive development at DSM Engineering Materials, which benefited 
from high volumes with a greatly improved carbon footprint  of caprolactam from our supplier Fibrant/HighSun. 
Additionally, t he supplier to our Nutrition business with the secon d-highest level of emissions made a significant 
investment  in order to reduce its emissions  through the use of a catalytic conversion technology . The new installation 
entered operation toward the end of 2021, resulting in some reduction in 2021, and will r esult in a further significant 
reduction in emissions  as of 2022 . 
Other scope 3 categories reported comparable figures in 202 1 compared to 20 20. Report by the Managing Board – Planet  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  73 Scope 3 GHG emissions1 
in CO 2eq, million tons  
1 Due to rounding, the numbers presented above may not add up to the total scope 3 emissions. 
Science Based Targets 
The Science Base d Target defined scope 3 intensity, expressed in kg CO2eq/kg produced, decreased by an additional 3% 
compared to 2020 largely due to the highlights described above.  
In our Nutritio n business, the inclusion of the learnings from the CO2REDUCE program into the supplier selection process 
resulted in a n improve d emission profile and reductions for several key raw materials. Overall, the sourcing mix of raw 
materials for the nutrition business showed a n increased carbon intensity as other more advanced raw materials and 
ingredients with a higher carbon footprint were also sourced. 
Engaging with our suppliers through our CO2REDUCE program 
In 2021, the supplier engagement program CO2REDUCE continued to build on agree d roadmaps and progressed as planne d. 
The focus was twofold.  
Firstly, we obtaine d new insights, datapoints and reduction opportunities throug h our collaboration with suppliers for key 
contributing raw materials . Together with our suppliers, reduction action plans were developed based o n product carbon 
footprint data. In 2021, we continued to explore new opportunities for scope 3 emissions reductions through multiple 
supplier emissions plans.  
Secondly, we identifie d low-carbon opportunities for several of our products using insights from the CO2REDUCE program 
regarding supplier emission plans a nd the associate d emissions reduction potential . This served as essential input into 
the further development of our business strategy.   
One of the ways to inspire suppliers in their reduction journey is through webinars on options for scope 3 emission 
reductions. In 2021, we organize d a webinar on energy efficiency with a full value chain approach. A supplier, a customer 
and DSM shared their approac h to energy efficiency with a group of Chinese suppliers active in the engagement program. 
The webinar (in Mandarin) and the program were well received, and discussions were continued in the subsequent 
supplier programs. 
Report by the Managing Board – Planet  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  74 Calculation and tracking of our scope 3 emissions developed further in 2021 to efficiently harness and utilize  the insights 
gained in the program. Digitalization  of the reporting enabled further transpa rency and better program steering. The 
reported emissions reflect the latest insights and are based on an increased share of supplier -specific emissions  instead 
of using industry average figures.  
We actively share  our experiences from the CO2REDUCE program in peer-group platforms  such as  ‘Together for 
Sustainability ’. These platforms aim to define best practices  in supplier engagement and scope 3 calculations within the 
industry, while also serving as an inspiration to  improve the program further.  
For the third time in a row, we received  a supplier engagement leadership award  for our 
CO2REDUCE program , which is a highly esteemed  recognition both internally and externally.  
Finally, we also develop products for the circular and bio -based economy  that contribute to 
further reducing our scope 3 emissions. See Stakeholder engagement  and Renewable & 
secondary raw materials  for additional information . 
Avoided emissions, supporting our customers with their emissions targets  
Our products  can enable our customers to transition to a  low-carbon economy  through an 
inherently lower carbon footprint , or by helping our customers  and end-users reduce their own 
emissions. The latter are referred to as ‘Avoided emissions’ — emissions -related environmental 
benefits  that occur  downstream in the  use phase of our products . While avoided emissions do not count toward our own 
Science  Based Targets or net-zero target, they result in reduced emissions for others in our value chain.  
Fruit juice production  produces around 800 kg CO 2eq per ton of juice produced. The challenge for juice processors is to 
achieve high yields  and ensure maximum throughput  during peak season, despite the varying quality  of raw materials. Our 
Rapidase® range of fruit processing enzymes  addresses these challenges, delivering a consistent, high -quality, crystal -
clear apple juice with a lower envir onmental impact. Our enzyme solutions portfolio Rapidase ® Smart helps our customers 
to reduce their GHG emission s by 50 kg of CO 2eq per ton of juice produced. This contributed to approximately 37  kt of 
CO2eq reduction in 2021.   
Over 50 % of emissions create d globally during milk production  come in the form of enteric methane , released into the 
atmosphere  through the burping of cows . Bovaer®  suppresses the enzyme that triggers methane production in a cow’s 
rumen; it i s the most extensively studied and scienti fically proven solution  to the challenge of burped methane to date . 
Just a quarter teaspoon of Bovaer® per cow per day consistently reduces enteric methane emission by approximately 30% 
for dairy cows and even higher percentages (up to 90%) for beef cows. Methane is a GHG that is short -lived but 28 times 
more potent than CO 2. Bovaer® therefore contributes to a significant and immediate reduction  of the environmental 
footprint of meat, milk and dairy products. DSM has available initial commercial product volumes  for near term market 
development . In 2021, engineering for a new large plant for Bovaer®  in Dalry (UK) has started to facilitate further scale up 
in coming years.  
Climate adaptation  
The warming climate is already severely impacting people a nd the environment – from health hazards to disruptions in 
water, food, and energy supplies, to damage and loss caused by floods, droughts, and other extreme and erratic weather 
events. The consequences of climate change will only intensify over the next f ew decades due to the current and near -
term emissions, even if the world achieves the Paris Agreement goal of limiting the global average temperature increase 
to 1.5°C.  
As a complement to our efforts on climate change mitigation – reducing and stabilizing  greenhouse gas emissions to fight 
the cause of the problem – we also deploy an  integrated strategy of climate adaptation  measures . These measures reduce 
the vulnerability  of our assets and value chains to emerging climate -related physical risk s and prepar e us for a changing 
business environment . 
Report by the Managing Board – Planet  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  75 Following a similar approach to our activities contributing to climate mitigation, our climate adaptation agenda is 
organized to:  
-improve  our resilience and future -proof our business
-enable  societies to adapt bett er to the adverse effects of climate change, particularly in the context of food
systems
-advocate  for adaptation action, and better collaboration and sharing of information on climate risk between
actors in society
As an example of our recent actions, we conducted physical climate risk assessments  in 2020 —2021. This involved mapping 
our top 30 sites for five emerging hazards and long -term impacts, using three climate scenarios and  three -time horizons. 
In 2021 , we also established and piloted a process in two Business Groups to identify and assess the potential impacts of 
the different speeds of transition  to a net -zero world  using the three scenarios used in the physical risk assessment. This 
work will expand to further Business Groups and continue iteratively in  the coming years. More information on our climate 
risk assessments is provided in Risk management .  
Waste & circularity  
We are committed to securing the future  availability of natural resources and unlocking more value from the limited 
resources we have . We  monitor and improv e our own operational impact through resource efficiency improvements, 
enabling our customers to deliver sustainable and circular solutions , and advocating for the transition to a circular, bio -
based economy.  
Aspiration  2021 2020 
Renewable & secondary raw materials¹  
Renewable raw materials (% of spend)  15% 15% 
. 
Waste  
Total process -related waste efficiency improvement  at least maintain  7.5% 11.8%²  
Waste recycled  80-90% in 2021  86% 85% 
Non-hazardous process -related waste (kt)  109 109² 
Hazardous process -related waste (kt)  86³ 81² 
1 All data presented in Planet  are subject to the  Non-financial reporting policy . 
2 The 2020 total process -related waste efficiency improvement, non -hazardous process -related waste and hazardous process -related 
waste have been restated due to a correction in the calculations at multiple locations.  
3 The net increase in hazardous process -related waste is due to the impact  of acquisitions  and divestments (~4 kt) . Hazardous process -
related waste for our other locations remained in a similar range as 2020.  
As the wo rld’s population grows, the demand for Earth’s resources  will only continue to rise. The United Nations  has 
calculated that to sustain our current lifestyles, the  equivalent of three Planet Earths  would be required by mid -century. 
Considering our global economy is only 8.6% circular  and that planetary boundaries are crossed, it is time to move away 
from linear production and consumption systems and work together to  build sustainable food and production systems . 
Bridging the gap to a circular economy will support the health of the global population  of tomorrow and improve 
livelihood s and the natural environment . A circular economy for food mimics natural systems of r egeneration so that 
waste does not exist but is instead feedstock for another cycle.  
We enable our customers to transition toward a circular and bio-based economy by focusing on five drivers:  
-Reduce  the use of critical resources throughout the value chain
-Replace  scarce, hazardous, and potentially harmful resources with safe and renewable alternatives
-Extend  the lifetime of products by means of improved durability or shelf -life
-Design  for recyclability
-Recover  waste streams by viewing waste as a resourceReport by the Managing Board – Planet  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  76 Renewable & secondary raw materials  
We are accelerating our efforts to  replace  finite fossil resources  with renewable (bio -based) raw materials , as well as 
secondary (recycled) materials. Replacing finite resources with alternative renewable resources can also have 
environmental co -benefits, such as reducing the carbon footprint of our solutions.  
Our progress on renewable & secondary  raw materials  
The renewable raw materials we use include waste from agriculture, yeasts and enzymes, carbohydrates and natural oils, 
and acids . In 202 1, the share of our spend on renewable raw materials remained stable  at approximately 15%. Overall 
volumes of renewable raw materials increased, in line with organic growth.  
More information on how we approach sustainable biomass  is available in our position paper on Sustainable Biomass on 
the company website . 
DSM Engineering Materials  partners with Sympatex Technologies to launch mass -balanced , bio-based Arnitel®  
To address growing consumer and legislative demand for lower carbon footprint and more sustainable feedstock, the 
sports and apparel value chain  is increasingly integrating bio -based materials into its designs. By offering a new range of 
mass -balanced , bio-based Arnitel®, DSM Engineering Materials is enabling Sympatex Technologies to meet these demands 
and offer consumers more sustainable choices . The end -product contains more than 25% bio -based content by weight . 
Mass -balance accounting  is a well -known approach that has been designed to trace the flow of recycled - and/or bio -
based materials through a complex value chain. At all times, we ensure th e transparency and traceability  of our bio - 
and/or recycled -based solutions through third -party sustainability certificates.  More information on how we approach 
mass -balance is available on  our company website . 
DSM Protective Materials  and industry partners launch coalition to close the loop on Dyneema ® 
The cross -industry coalition, CirculariTeam®,  consists of parties from across the value chain that use DSM’s Dyneema ®, the 
world’s strongest fiber™, in their products. CirculariTeam ® aims to drive the transition  toward  renewable bio - and 
recycled -based resources within its respective industry. This m atches our vision and mission of enabling a circular 
economy and keeping materials at their highest value  for the longest possible time.  CirculariTeam ® has identified seven 
focus areas: reverse logistics, recycle and reuse solutions, improved production ef ficiency (including waste reduction), 
separation of waste into material components, design for circularity, regulation, and information -sharing.  
DSM Protective Materials and SABIC, a global leader in the chemical industry, started  a collaboration to creat e recycled -
based Dyneema ®. Through a joint pilot with multiple CirculariTeam ® members, the manufacturing and usage of Dyneema ® 
using mixed plastic waste as feedstock  (via a mass -balance approach) was successfully demonstrated. This is an important 
step tow ard the future goal of fully closing the loop  by delivering Dyneema ® made from ultra -high molecular weight 
polyethylene waste. This collaboration underlines our efforts to accelerate the introduction of a circular economy for 
materials.  
DSM Protective Mate rials and Clariter partner to pursue chemical recycling solution for Dyneema® -based end -products  
DSM Protective Materials is actively pursuing reuse and recycling solutions for end -of-life Dyneema ®-based products. To 
drive technical recycling solutions, DSM Protective Materials and Clariter partnered to test the feasibility of using 
Dyneema ® as a feedstock in Clariter’s chemical recycling process . Sample products made with Dyneema ® were used in 
Clariter’s tests at its pilot plant in Poland. The  positive results confirm the technical viability  of transforming Dyneema ®-
based end -products into high-value, industrial -grade, product families  (oils, waxes and solvents ) via Clariter’s patented 
three -step chemical recycling process. These can be further  used as ingredients to manufacture new end - and consumer 
products.  
Waste  
Our waste management approach consists of a continuous improvement cycle  concerning our total process -related waste 
produced and of driving more circular ways of waste treatment . Progress is steered as part of dedicated site improvements 
programs.  Report by the Managing Board – Planet  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  77 Our definition of waste recycled is the percentage of non -hazardous and hazardous process -related waste  that is 
recovered off -site or, if this is not possible, incinerated off -site with hea t recovery . In total, this amounted to 1693 kt out of 
195 kt of total process -related waste in 2021.  We pay careful attention to meeting local waste management legislation . As 
of 2022, we will steer the journey on reducing our linear waste management further with a new target of 50% absolute 
landfill reduction by 2030 versus 2020.  
Waste breakdown by type and destination  
in thousand tons  
In the past year, we made good progress on both drivers, with a 7.5% of process -related waste efficiency improvement  
from 2020 to 2021 and a percentage of waste recycled  of 86% (our ambition level is  in the range of 80 –90%). This 
improvement is mainly due to process improvements and waste reduction programs  at our main locations . For example, in 
Freeport  (Texas, USA), a waste stream that was incinerated without heat recovery was diverted to incineration with heat 
recovery  and a recycling opportunity for methylene chloride  was identified by working with different waste management 
contractors . In Pecem  (Brazil) , a partnership was developed to allow composting of organic waste  instead of landfilling it . 
Our hazardous waste main ly consists of mixed chemicals and solvents . We follow the waste hierarchy to divert hazardous 
waste from landfill, we minimize hazardous landfill as part of our SHE requirements, and 92% of our hazardous waste is 
already recovered off -site or incinerated by means of heat recovery. Less than 2% of our hazardous process -related waste 
is landfilled, due to specific regulatory constraints  and countries with limited alternative means  of disposal.  
Nature & biodiversity  
The complex web of life which makes up nat ure and biodiversity is vital for our Earth’s survival. Healthy ecosystems 
supply us with oxygen, food, clean air and water, and a host of other ecosystem services that help  mitigat e the effects of 
climate change by absorbing carbon. Like every business in  the world, we depend on nature and ecosystem services. We 
acknowledge our role to protect biodiversity, and fully support the ambitions of the UN Convention on Biological 
Diversity.  
3 All data presented in Planet are subject to the Non-financial reporting policy . 
Report by the Managing Board – Planet  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  78 1 All data presented in Planet are subject to the Non-financial reporting policy. 
2 The 2020 VOC efficiency improvement and VOC amount have been restated due to a correction in the calculations at multiple locations . 
3 The increase in VOC due to acquisitions was ~1.3 kt. 
Biodiversity 
Biodiversity loss is accelerating, and its key drivers are all connected with human activity. According to the 
Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES) Global Assessment, one million 
of the eight million animal and plant species are now threatened with extinction. We address our impacts on biodiversity 
and natural ecosystems  through our DSM Responsible Care Plan , especially with our GHG emissions reduction, water 
stewardship and waste management programs.  In 2022, we will launch our new Responsible Care Plan, in which we will 
also put more emphasis on deforestation-free supply chains for our primary raw materials. 
Monitoring biodiversity across our value chain 
To manage our own environmental footprint, we monitor areas of high biodiversity  around our sites. In 2021, 28% of all our 
production sites in scope were in or adjacent to protected areas or areas of high biodiversity. The increase is due to 
acquisitions that were added to the reporting scope. 
As we are exposed to biodiversity risks in our supply chain, we strive to responsibly source high-risk raw materials  through 
recognized certification schemes if available. These raw materials include palm oil derivatives, wood-based materials, fish 
oils and sugar . We have committed to a deforestation-free primary supply chain  by latest 2030 (Tier 1 supply chain for 
deforestation-risk crops: sugarcane, direct soy & corn-based products, palm-oil derivatives). More information on how we 
work with the sourcing of these raw materials can be found in Sustainable Biomass position paper and in our statement 
on the responsible management of forest resources on the company website. Moving forward, we will continually evaluate 
our impacts on biodiversity along our value chain, and have joined the Science-based Targets Network’s Corporate 
Engagement Program , to co-develop and pilot test their guidance.  
Supporting our customers on biodiversity 
We enable our customers to develop more sustainable products through our Brighter Living Solutions. For example, just 
one ton of our Veramaris® natural algal oil saves 60 tons of wild fish from having to be caught to produce salmon feed, 
protecting marine biodiversity in our oceans. 
Taking a position on biodiversity 
Lastly, we advocate for biodiversity-promoting values worldwide. We are a member of One Planet Business for Biodiversity 
(OP2B) which aims to scale up regenerative agriculture and restore ecosystems to prevent further biodiversity loss 
through collective member actions. In 2021, OP2B launched the Regenerative Agriculture Framework . The framework 
focusses on protecting and improving biodiversity around farms with a focus on crops, improving and preserving carbon 
and water retention in soil, as well as leveraging the power of plants, livestock, and agricultural practices, while supporting 
farmer livelihoods. 
For more information, see our position paper on Biodiversity on the company website. 2021 2020 
Protected Areas¹  
Sites in or adjacent to protected areas  28% 27% 
Sites in registered protected areas  3% 3% 
. 
VOC efficiency improvement versus 2015  50% by 2021  85% 80%²  
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC, x 1,000 tons)  4.1³ 3.2² Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  79 Repo rt by the Managin g Board – Planet 
Othe r emission s to air 
Our reporting on ‘ Other emissions to air’  focuses on volatile organic compounds (VOCs), as these are the most significant 
emissions in this area. We continue to report our nitrous oxide (NO x) and sulfur dioxide (SO 2) emissions in the five-year 
summary – sustainability tables and via the company website. However, these emissions are not material due to 
improveme nt actions executed in t he past.  
We continu e to work on our VOC emissions 
Our objecti ve is to continuousl y reduc e our VOC emissions , aimi ng at a m ore than 50% efficie ncy improveme nt by 2 021 
versu s 2015. In 2021 , our VOC efficiency improved compared t o 2020. This is mainly due t o better understandi ng of VOC 
generatio n, resulti ng in targeted proces s optimizatio n. An exampl e is the improveme nt pr ogram at our location in 
Mairi nque ( Brazil) , where studie s wer e initiated in 202 1 to better qua ntify and understa nd the mechanis m of ethanol 
creation duri ng fermentatio n. Understandi ng this process will allow us to optimiz e the fermentation proces s parameter s to 
reduc e ethano l creatio n and enabl e us to tes t more breakthrough solutions. 
Our absolute VOC emi ssions increased compared to 2020. The inclusion of acquired sites in the reporting scope was not 
compensated by the VOC improvements mentioned above. As this is the first year of reporting for acquisitions, they are 
not included in the VOC efficiency improvement calculation. 
Water stewardship 
Fres h water is a finit e natura l resourc e that need s to be used and manage d in a responsibl e and sustainabl e way. Water 
risks are increasin g due to climat e chang e and increase d urbanization , impactin g food production , natur e and 
biodiversity . Our goal is to ensur e the sustainabl e use of wate r in balanc e with the loca l contex t and to have safe, 
availabl e wate r for all. 
Aspiration  2021 2020 
Water Use (million m³)¹  
Water withdrawal in water -stressed areas²  10.9³ 10.5 
Water withdrawal for non -OTC 26 24 
Consumptive Use  5.3 4.4 
. 
Sustainable water management  
Water withdrawal efficiency improvement  at least maintain  8.0%³  -⁴
Water withdrawal efficiency improvement – water -stress sites 
versus 2020  10% by 2030  7.8%³  -⁴
. 
Emissions to water  
COD (kt)  2.0 2.0 
1 All data presented in Planet  are subject to the Non-financial reporting policy . 
2 Water -stress is defined as the ratio of total water withdrawals to available renewable surface and groundwater supplies. We perform  
water risk screening using WRI Aqu educt Tool and WWF Water Risk Filter to identify water stress sites , which are  sites located in an area 
with >40% water stress currently or in 2030 .  
3 Water withdrawal in water -stressed area s increased due to the inclusion of acquisitions . These acquired sites are not included in the 
water efficiency indicators yet as there is no prior reference year available . 
4 Water withdrawal efficiency improvement is based on an updated set of indicators and cannot be compared to previous years . Report by the Managing Board – Planet  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  80 Commitments, policy and governance  
DSM is a signatory of the CEO Water Mandate, a UN Global Compact initiative to advance  
water  stewardship  and drive progress on SDG 6  (Clean Water and Sanitation ). We commit  to 
measuring, monitoring and reporting relevant performance indicators for water. We disclose  
our progress  via the CDP Water Security questionnaire. In 2021, our CDP Water Security  rating 
improved to an A, in recognition of our ongoing efforts in sustainable water management.   
Water security is an integral part of our risk mitigation and environmental impact r eduction 
strategies . Our water policy is part of the SHE policy and specifies the goal, governance and 
management standards on water management.  
Impacts and dependencies  
Water is not a primary ingredient in our products . Our primary water use is in utility systems, as a process  medium and for 
cleaning purposes.  Water is also used in our upstream supply chain, for agriculture -related as well as industrial raw 
materials.  
A large proportion of our total water withdrawal ( approximately 75%) is used for once -through cooling  (OTC) purposes in 
low water -stress areas . The risk exposure and environmental impact of OTC  are limited . The other 25% of our water 
withdrawal is for non -OTC purposes – this is the focus of our key performa nce indicators and targets on water. According 
to our water risk screening in 2021, 35% of our non -OTC withdrawal is from a current water -stressed area, or a water -
stressed area in 2030.  
“On World Water Day 2021, we published our updated  water target 
and explained why water has always been an important topic for 
DSM. We are a signatory to the UN Global Compact CEO Water 
Mandate and this Report represents our progress on water 
stewardship .” 
Dimitri de Vreeze, Co -CEO, Royal DSM  
Water withdr awal  
in million tons  
Report by the Managing Board – Planet  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  81 Risk management  
All sites with water withdrawal materiality and sites in w ater-stress ed areas are required to conduct a site-level water risk 
assessment  (WRA). The frequency of the assessment is specified in DSM’s water management  standard . In 2021, we 
reached a WRA coverage of 97%, evaluating four sites newly identified to be in a water -stressed area based on the 2020 
water risk screening. For one other site, the WRA was postponed to 2022, as part of the site’s overall SHE improve ment 
plan.  
Water quality  remains the most important water -related risk, often related to meeting business growth  or increasingly 
stringent regulatory requirements . For identified high risks, the site defines short -term measures to address the 
immediate iss ue(s) and/or long -term measures including technical projects  to reduce pollutant level at source or 
upgrades of the wastewater treatment facility. For example, we are executing a capacity expansion project  for the 
wastewater treatment plant (WWTP)  in Villa ge-Neuf (France), including upgrades to add additional treatment steps . 
In our value chain, we monitor the materiality of water for our suppliers and customers through value chain engagement 
programs, such as Together for Sustainability (TfS).  
Water -related targets  
We strive to continuously improve water withdrawal efficiency  for our production facilities. In early 2021, we announced  a 
context -based wa ter reduction target  to improve water withdrawal efficiency in water -stressed  areas by 10% by 2030 
versus 2020. We started a water reduction program  covering 22 sites in an existing or future water -stressed area. Several 
large sites in water -stressed areas  have improved their site -level water balance in 2021, through better leakage detection 
and prevention.  
Some sites have also executed water reduction projects, often in close collaboration with energy reduction projects.  For 
example, in our Xinghuo site ( Shanghai province, China), low efficiency (steam -driven) chillers were replaced by new 
installations, saving 33,000 m3 of water per year. At our site in Jingjiang (Jiangsu province, China), we installed a new 
circulating water system  for vacuum pumps, savi ng 100,000 m3 water  per year.  Our site in Belvidere (New Jersey, USA) 
installed a new cooling tower  together with the replacement of more than 25-year-old chillers. The improved system 
contributes to a water use reduction of approximately 4,000  m3 per year . These projects resulted in a 7.8% water 
withdrawal efficiency improvement in water stressed areas in 2021 (versus 2020).  
For effluent management, our sites set site -specific pollution reduction targets, based on business context and current 
and future re gulatory requirements.  
Product stewardship  
Product stewardship manages and minimizes the environmen tal, safety and health impacts of substances in our products 
in line with international regulations from raw materials selection, production process, during  use, until end -of-life. It is 
about knowing the substances we use and produce, being able to explain why we use them, taking the appropriate risk 
control measures, and sharing this information with relevant and interested stakeholders. We apply a risk -based 
approach, using safer alternatives whenever feasible, and always when required.  
Substances of concern  
We apply a risk-based approach , using safer alternatives whenever feasible, and always when required.  'Substances of 
concern’ are substances that fulfill certain regulatory criteria or are listed by recognized organizations for (potential) 
serious health or environmental risks (such as REACH Substances of Very High Concern ). The assessment of the  presence 
of these substances in our end product s has been added as a minimum requirement  in our new sustainable portfolio 
steering program  (Brighter Living Solutions +). In 2021 , we assessed our full product portfolio and the result showed that 
less than 0.5% of sa les contain a substance of concern with a concentration >0.1%.  
Regulatory developments  
Product stewardship contributes to the value proposition  of our business in a world characterized by  increasing interest in 
the health of people, animals, and the plane t. It helps the business to be safe and sustainable and also helps mitigate 
liabilities . Report by the Managing Board – Planet  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  82 In October 2020, the European Union published, as part of the European Green Deal, the Chemical Strategy for 
Sustainability  with the ambition to move to a toxic -free environment . A challenging regulatory agenda  will be implemented 
in the coming years. We support the starting -points of the strategy and as part of our advocacy efforts, we engage in 
discussions to drive reasonable actions and timelines. Furthermore, we share our experiences to shape the concept of 
‘safe and sustainable by design’ . 
Product stewardship roadmap 2021 –2024 
To future proof ourselves, the following five themes were identified: 
-Further increase the awareness of product stewardship  across the organization
-Improve our master data management
-Improve our use of digital tools
-Further  embed ‘ safe and sustainable by design’  principles
-Adjust our governance  when needed
External and internal product stewardship awareness has accelerated due to the Chemical Strategy for Sustainability  as 
mentioned  above . The need to improve the master data connection over the different functions and the use of digital 
tools  is essential and will be pursued in the coming years  
Our businesses are now supported by a single, integrated product stewardship team , introdu ced with effect from 1 January 
2022.  A new product stewardship network will be installed, covering a broader spectrum of the value chain, to further roll 
out our product stewardship roadmap . 
For more information on product stewardship, see the company website . Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  83 Profit  
At a glance  
-+42.8% Total shareholder return versus 2020
-+14% Sales from continuing operations versus 2020, with organic sales +8% in Nutrition and +28% in Materials
-+18% Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations versus 2020, with Nutrition +8% and Materials +60%
-€949 million Adjusted net operating free cash flow  from continuing operatio ns, +9% versus 20 20
-€858 million Adjusted Net profit from continuing operations, +21% versus 20 20
-€2.50 Proposed dividend  per ordinary share , an increase of €0.10 compared to 2020
Overall financial results  
Strategy  
DSM’s purpose -led, performance -driven strategy sees sustainability and innovation as key growth drivers of a long -term 
focused plan, underpinned by ambitious targets across People, Planet and Profit.  
In September 2021, DSM announced the acceleration of it s strategic journey to become a focused Health, Nutrition & 
Bioscience company organized, as from 1 January 2022, in three market -focused Business Groups. These will be much 
closer aligned with their respective customers and, through the integration of act ivities previously performed by the DSM 
Innovation Center, will be fully equipped to rapidly develop impactful science -based and market -ready solutions. This 
structure will also allow DSM to leverage its strong combination of scientific competences and gro wing portfolio of 
nutrition and health solutions, as well as harness the latest advancements in digital technology and bioscience.  
As a Health, Nutrition & Bioscience company, DSM sees significant headroom for further growth and innovation by building 
on its unique business model combining ‘global products’ and ‘local solutions’ and by adding a third dimension of 
‘precision and personalization’ that captures emerging big data, digital and bioscience capabilities. In the new structure, 
DSM is also ideally po sitioned to address the huge environmental and societal challenges which face the global food 
systems.  
DSM maintains ambitious mid -term profit targets as a Health, Nutrition & Bioscience company of mid -single digit % 
organic sales growth, an above 20% Adj usted EBITDA margin, and high -single digit % Adjusted EBITDA growth, supported by 
its strong innovation pipeline.  
DSM also announced a review of strategic options for its Materials businesses in September 2021, including a possible 
change of ownership. As from 1 January 2022 these high -quality businesses are managed largely on a stand -alone basis 
and will continue their existing growth strategies focusing their innovations and business development on the increasing 
demand for materials that protect the heal th of both people and planet by adding further bio -based and circular solutions  
Financial results  
This section includes an overview of the key financial metrics  of the company in respect of its continuing  operations 
performance in 202 1 and 20 20, except whe re otherwise indicated.  
The year 2021 was a transitional year in terms of the evolution of the COVID -19 pandemic, as global demand for goods and 
services resumed, at pace, but also with a great deal of unpredictability. This put stress on global supply ch ains, logistics 
and workforce availability which provided great challenges for economies around the world, giving rise to rapidly 
accelerating inflationary pressures towards the end of the year. Within this context, Nutrition business conditions 
remained r obust during the year, and Materials saw a very strong recovery.  
As a result , DSM delivered strong full year results  in a challenging environment, and despite adverse foreign exchange 
developments throughout most of the year. For continuing operations we reported an 18% rise in Adjusted EBITDA to 
€1,814  million, driven by another very good performance in Nutrition, supp orted by continued innovation success and Report by the Managing Board – Profit 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  84 contributions from acquisitions, and a strong result in Materials, which compares with a prior year of weak industry 
demand impacted by the pandemic. Adjusted net operating free cash flow from continuing operations  increased by 9%, 
compared to 2020, to €949 million.  
Nutrition  delivered a very good performance, with an 8% increase in its organic sales (all volume -driven) and Adjusted 
EBITDA, highlighting an excellent operational performance and reliability as a suppl ier as we successfully navigated the 
significant supply chain and logistic disruptions throughout the year. Pricing actions were taken during the last period to 
begin to counter the rapidly rising inflationary pressures that emerged. Animal Nutrition & Hea lth delivered 10% organic 
sales growth owing to good demand in the underlying animal protein markets, further supported by higher stock levels at 
customers because of concerns regarding supply chain uncertainty, together with growing inflationary pressures  in the 
fourth quarter. Human Nutrition & Health recorded 5% organic sales growth, building on last year’s strong volume growth 
of 7%, as demand for immunity -optimizing products remained high and food services began to re -open around the world 
boosting dem and in Food & Beverages and Food Specialties. Personal Care & Aroma saw strong growth owing to a 
recovery in sun and skin care, as travel restrictions eased, as well as strong demand for detergents and disinfectants.   
Materials  delivered a strong performa nce with a recovery in Protective Materials and elevated demand for Engineering 
Materials owing to supply disruptions and raw materials shortages across the industry, leading to a 27% increase in sales 
(driven equally by volumes and price) and a 60% improv ement in adjusted EBITDA. DSM volumes compared to pre -covid 
2019 were 6% higher, while markets continued to struggle with semiconductor shortages and supply chain disruptions 
throughout 2021, highlighting our role in meeting market demand that could not be  fulfilled by competitors due to force 
majeure events.  
Adjusted EBITDA  margins for Nutrition were 20.6% in 2021, down slightly compared to prior year of 21% owing to 
inflationary effects in the fourth quarter. Materials saw a strong recovery from weak mark et environment of 2020, with an 
Adjusted EBITDA margin of 22.5% in 2021 compared to 17.9% in the prior year, owing to strong operational leverage.  
Income statement and key data  
x € million  2021 2020 Change  
Continuing operations  
Net sales  9,204  8,106  14% 
Adjusted EBITDA  1,814 1,534  18% 
EBITDA  1,702 1,368  24% 
Adjusted operating profit  1,139 929 23% 
Operating profit  1,021 662 54% 
Adjusted net profit  858 711 21% 
APM adjustments  231 (254) -191%
Net profit from continuing operations  1,089  457 138%  
Adjusted net operating free cash flow 949 872 9% 
ROCE (in %)  11.1 10.4 
Adjusted EBITDA margin (in %)  19.7 18.9 
. 
Total group  
Net profit for the year  1,680  508 231%  
Net profit available to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V.  1,676  506 231%  
Adjusted net operating free cash flow 941 955 -1%
Net sales and Adjusted EBITDA  
At €9,204 million, net sales  from continuing operations in 2021 were 14% higher than in 2020 (€8,106 million). Organic 
growth  in 2021 was 13%. Volume development  was 10%, while price/mix had a 3% positive effect on growth compared to 
2020. Exchange rate fluctuations  had a negative im pact of -2%, and acquisitions contributed another 3% to sales.  
High-growth economies  together currently represent 45% of our sales (47% when Africa is included), which is 3 percentage 
points higher than in 2020. The share of sales in these economies as a p roportion of our total sales gives us a well -
balanced global footprint.  Report by the Managing Board – Profit 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  85 The Adjusted EBITDA  (Adjusted operating profit before depreciation and amortization) from continuing operations 
increased by 18%, or €280 million, from €1,534 million in 2020 to €1,814  million in 2021. Adjusted EBIT (Adjusted operating 
profit) from continuing operations increased from €929 million in 2020 to €1,139 million in 2021, up 23%.  
Net sales  Adjusted EBITDA  
x € million  2021 2020 % change  2021 2020 % change  
DSM, continuing operations  9,204  8,106  14% 1,814 1,534  18% 
Nutrition  7,031  6,365  10% 1,447  1,338  8% 
Materials  1,935  1,518 27% 435 272 60% 
Innovation Center  168 184 -9% 26 21 24% 
Corporate Activities  70 39 79% (94) (97) -3%
Net profit  
Adjusted net profit  from continuing operations of €858 million was up by 21% versus 20 20. Net profit available to equity 
holders of DSM increased by € 1,170 million to € 1,676  million. Next to the improved adjusted net profit from continuing 
operatio ns of €147 million, t his increase was mainly a result of the net book profit of €570 million on the sale of Resins & 
Functional Materials and the net book profit of €303 million on the sale of DSM’s share in AOC Aliancys . Furthermore, this 
included  the lower other APM adjustments ( down  by €125 million, mainly due to lower impairments  and acquisition costs ). 
Expressed per ordinary share, net earnings from continuing operations amounted to € 6.26 in 202 1 (2020: €2.64). 
Financial income and expense  increased by €39 million year on year to a net expense of €106 million. This was mainly 
caused by the impact of the accounting for renewable energy contracts  (a financial expense of €7 million in 2021, 
compared to a financial income of €27 million in 2020 ). 
The total effective tax rate  over taxable result 2021 for continuing operations was 18.4% (2020: 17.9%). excluding APM 
adjustments  this was an increase from 18.5% to 19.2%. This increase was mainly due to  uncertainties under local laws, 
partly compensat ed by higher tax -exempt income in several countries and the higher tax rate in the Netherlands as of 
2022.  
Adjustments made in arriving at DSM’s Alternative performance measures (APM adjustments)  
Total APM adjustments  from continuing operations for the fu ll year amounted to a profit of €231 million (2020: loss of 
€254 million), consisting of a loss in EBITDA of €112 million (including restructuring costs of €92 million and 
acquisition/divestment costs of €26 million), impairments of €6 million, a related t ax benefit of €30 million, and a profit of 
€319 million relating to associates and joint ventures (mainly the profit on the sale of DSM’s share in AOC of €303 million).  Report by the Managing Board – Profit 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  86 Net sales by destination 
in %Net sales by origin 
in %
Net sales by business segment 
in %Net sales by end-use market 
in %
Adjusted EBITDA margin  Net sales bridge 2021 
x € million in %
Report by the Managing Board – Profit 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  87 Cash flow statement  
x € million  2021¹  2020¹  
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January  871 800 
Cash provided by operating activities  1,427 1,494  
Cash from / (used in) investing activities  208 (1,482)  
Cash from / (used in) financing activities  (984)  83 
Effect of exchange differences  39 (24) 
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December  1,561 871 
1 The cash flow statement includes  an analysis of all cash flows, including those related to discontinued operations . 
Cash  provided by operating activities of €1,427 million mainly consists of the EBITDA for the year (€2,370 million), excluding 
the book profit on the sale of Resins & Functional Materials before tax of €640 million (recognized under investing 
activities). Over all, the full -year operating cash flow decreased by €67 million. This was driven by various items, including 
increased working capital (see also Consolidated financial statements ). 
The cash from  inves ting activities  consisted mainly of the proceeds from the divestments (€1,791 million, mainly from the 
divestments of Resins & Functional Materials and DSM’s share in AOC), partly offset by capital expenditures ( -€570 million) 
and acquisitions ( -€704 milli on, mainly First Choice Ingredients and the Fragrance & Flavours business of Amyris).  
The cash used in  financing activities  included the early redemption of the 2022 bond ( -€500 million), dividend paid ( -€266 
million) and the repurchase of shares ( -€165 mi llion).  
For the full cash flow statement , see the primary statement in the Consolidated financial statements . 
Balance sheet  
The balance sheet total  (total assets) reached €16.0 billion at year -end (20 20: €14.3 billion). Equity increased by €1,910 
million, which was attributable to the net profit of €1.680 million, the exchange rate impact on foreign operations of 
€474 million, offset partly by the dividend payments of -€424 million. Equity as a percent age of total assets increased from 
52% to 59%.  
Compared to year -end 2020, net debt  decreased by €1,563 million to €1,014 million, mainly due to the divestments of 
Resins & Functional Materials and DSM’s share in AOC, offset partly by the early redemption o f the 2022 bond  
(-€500 million). The gearing  at year -end was 9.7%, which was considerably lower than the gearing of 25.6% at year -end 
2020.  
Capital expenditure  on intangible assets and property, plant and equipment amounted to €608 million for continuing 
operations in 2021 (€563  million on a cash basis), which was roughly the same as the level of amortization and 
depreciation (excluding the depreciation on leases).  
Total working capital  from continuing operations amounted to €1,805 million compared to €1,591 million at year -end 2020. 
This represents 18.7% as a percentage of annualized fourth -quarter 2021 sales (2020: 19.1%), which is below our aspiration 
of 20%. Cash -wise, the operating working capital (OWC) from continuing operations increased €183 million compared to 
last year, which is fully attributable to the increased sales. The OWC percentage decreased from 24.6% at year -end 2020 to 
24.1% of annualized sales at year -end 2021.  
Cash and cash equivalents  came to €1,561 million at the end of the year; including current investments, this amounted to 
€2,050  million (2020: €914 million). Besides the regular cash flow elements, this increase was mainly due to divestments 
(€1,791 million), a cquisitions ( -€704 million), redemption of the 2022 bonds ( -€500 million), the repurchase of shares  
(-€165 million) and the paid dividend ( -€266 million). Report by the Managing Board – Profit 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  88 Balance sheet profile  
2021 2020 
x € million  in % x € million  in % 
Intangible assets  5,310  33 4,440  31 
Property, plant and equipment  3,957  25 3,775 26 
Other non -current assets  617 4 711 5 
Cash and cash equivalents  1,561 10 871 6 
Other current assets  4,568  28 4,549  32 
Total assets  16,013  100 14,346  100 
Equity  9,397  59 7,487  52 
Provisions  164 1 184 1 
Other non -current liabilities  4,089  25 4,493  32 
Other current liabilities  2,363  15 2,182 15 
Total equity and liabilities  16,013  100 14,346  100 
“Once again we delivered a performance in  line with our ambitious 
mid-term financial targets. An excellent operational performance 
saw us successfully navigate challenging market conditions, 
ensuring we met the expectations of our customers. We are well 
positioned to counter the ris ing input costs that we saw at the end of 
the year .” 
Geraldine Matchett, Co -CEO, Royal DSM  
Outlook 2022  
DSM expects its Health, Nutrition & Bioscience activities to deliver a high -single digit Adjusted EBITDA increase. For the 
Group, it expects a mid-single digit Adjusted EBITDA increase, with a high -single digit Adjusted Net Operating Free Cash 
Flow increase. This outlook is based on DSM’s expectation of a stable Adjusted EBITDA in Materials following the strong 
performance in 2021.  Report by the Managing Board – Profit 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  89 Key business  figures at a glance  
Our activities are grouped in three clusters: Nutrition, Materials and Innovation Center. We report separately on Corporate 
Activities. Results  presented in this section (and elsewhere in this Report) relate to consolidated activities only (therefore 
non-consolidated partnerships are excluded).  
Net sales  
x € million  2021 2020 
Nutrition  7,031  6,365  
Materials  1,935  1,518 
Innovation Center  168 184 
Corporate Activities  70 39 
Total continuing operations  9,204  8,106  
Discontinued operations  264 932 
Total  9,468  9,038  
Adjusted EBITDA  
x € million  2021 2020 
Nutrition  1,447  1,338  
Materials  435 272 
Innovation Center  26 21 
Corporate Activities  (94) (97) 
Total continuing operations  1,814  1,534  
Discontinued operations  28 116 
Total  1,842  1,650  
Adjusted EBITDA margin  
in % 2021 2020 
Nutrition  20.6 21.0 
Materials  22.5 17.9 
Total continuing operations  19.7 18.9 
Discontinued operations  10.6 12.4 
Total  19.5 18.3 Adjusted operating profit (EBIT)  
x € million  2021 2020 
Nutrition  940 919 
Materials  331 168 
Innovation Center  4 (17) 
Corporate Activities  (136) (141) 
Total continuing operations  1,139 929 
Discontinued operations  28 82 
Total  1,167 1,011 
Capital employed at 31 December  
x € million  2021 2020 
Nutrition  9,550  8,305  
Materials  1,005  953 
Innovation Center  407 436 
Corporate Activities  (1) - 
Total continuing operations  10,961  9,694  
Discontinued operations  51 863 
Total  11,012  10,557  
ROCE  
in % 2021 2020 
Nutrition  10.6 12.6 
Materials  34.1 16.4 
Total continuing operations  11.1 10.4 
Discontinued operations  - 9.2 
Total  11.1 10.3 
Capital expenditure  
x € million  2021 2020 
Nutrition  488 441 
Materials  65 63 
Innovation Center  2 35 
Corporate Activities  53 34 
Total continuing operations  608 573 
Discontinued operations  6 49 
Total, accounting based  614 622 
Non-cash items  (44) (13) 
Customer funding  - (24) 
Total, cash -based  570 585 
In % of net sales  6.0 6.5 Report by the Managing Board – Profit 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  90 R&D expenditure (including associated IP expenditure)  
x € million  as % of net sales  
2021 2020 2021 2020 
Nutrition  257 241 3.7 3.8 
Materials  79 73 4.1 4.8 
Innovation Center  45 60 24.5 32.6 
Corporate Activities  21 11 30.0 28.2 
Total continuing operations  402 385 4.4 4.7 
Discontinued operations  13 60 4.9 6.4 
Total  415 445 4.4 4.9 
Workforce at 31 December  
headcount  2021 2020 
Nutrition  16,091  15,838  
Materials  2,885  2,857  
Innovation Center  578 579 
Corporate Activities  1,804  2,039  
Total continuing operations  21,358  21,313  
Discontinued operations  - 1,814 
Total  21,358  23,127  Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  91 Review of business  
Nutrition  
At a glance  
-€7,031 Net sales versus € 6,365 in 2020 (in millions)
-20.6% Adjusted EBITDA margin versus 21% in 2020 and versus a >20% ambition
->55 animal nutrition premix facilities and 15 human nutrition premix facilities
->€1 billion of our sales in 2021 came from immunity -optimizing ingredients
-70% re duction in land use with EVERSWEET ™ stevia sweetener compared to bio -converted Reb M
-> 70% of our skin care portfolio is > 90% natural in origin
About DSM Nutrition  
Our Nutrition business comprises DSM Nutritional Products  and DSM Food Specialties. This cl uster provides solutions that 
benefit the health of people and the health of the planet. We are active across a wide range of sectors : animal nutrition & 
health, food & beverages, pharmaceuticals, medical nutrition, early life nutrition, nutrition improvem ent, dietary 
supplements, personalized nutrition and personal care.  
We cover all stages  of the associated value chains , producing pure active ingredients, incorporati ng them  into 
sophisticated forms and  provi ding tailored premixes, functional  solutions and  branded consumer products. Our unique 
portfolio of products and services is global and highly diversified, serving customers and other stakeholders locally across 
an extensive range of end-markets world wide . 
With our ‘global products, local solutions’  business model, we have successfully built a broad, highly integrated and 
profitable growth business. We are expand ing our business model with leading precision & personalization propositions. 
More detail on our business model can be found in Strategy .  
On 1 January 2022 , we reorganized our Nutrition business into  three market -focused Business Groups:  Food & Beverage , 
Health, Nutrition & Care  and Animal Nutrition & Health . These  underpin our transformation to a Health, Nutrition & 
Bioscience company as announced in September 2021 . At the same ti me as announcing these changes , we also announc ed 
a series of new quantifiable  Food System Commitments . These underpin DSM’s overarching commitment to meaningfully 
contribute to Health for People, Health for the Planet and Healthy Livelihoods and span all three new Business Groups. 
Through investment in our (bio)science -based innovations, extensive partnerships, and advocacy activities, we aim to help 
deliver change to ensure accessible, affordable, healthy nutrition and healthy livelihoods within planetary  boundaries.  
Trends  
Our Nutrition business  addresses significant trends that influence the health of people and of the planet. In Animal 
Nutrition & Health, we address the growing requirement for the sustainable  production of animal protein . In Human 
Nutrition & Health, we address the growing demand for (personalized) health solutions , including the need to provide 
delicious, nutritious and sustainable food and beverage choices for all.   
Enabling the sustainable production of animal protein  
Animal -based proteins are highly nutritious and form a key part of a balanced, healthy diet . Their consumption is also 
central to many cultures, and animal -source foods and other animal -source products play an important socio -economic Review of Business – Nutrition  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  92 role in those cultures. However, livestock production comes at a cost. This cost is increasingly evident. Rising demand for 
animal protein is driving up greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and piling pressure on natural resources. In some cases, this 
pressure has already transgressed accepted planetary boundaries. The planetary boundaries include the Earth ’s tolerance 
thresholds in terms of  GHG emissions, biochemical flows, water quality and quantity, land use, and biodiversity.  The agri -
food sector is o ne of the major contributors to global GHG emissions, and almost a third of wild fisheries are 
overexploited.  The sustainability of animal protein production is now front and center in the minds of many, with 
widespread calls for change from the value chai n, policy makers and associated stakeholders.  
The world’s population  is projected to reach 9.7 billion by 2050. At the same time, demand for healthier, balanced, and  
more nutrient -dense diets is increasing — driven not only by the growth of the world’s population but also by changing 
health awareness and consumer expectations. The possibilities afforded by a growing range  of plant -based alternatives  to 
protein might go some way to filling this gap. However, dem and is still likely to grow as many populations need to raise 
their animal protein intake to attain a level of balanced, healthy nutrition. Enabling sustainable animal production  is 
therefore of paramount importance.  
Our solutions  
We strongly believe in and advocate for a radical transformation of animal farming and food systems to ensure a 
sustainable future. We are convinced that the livestock industry can transform itself from within to deliver solutions to the 
challenges facing society and the animal protein industry. We are well positioned  to play a key role in this transformation . 
That is why in Animal Nutrition & Health , we focus on the following six sustainability platforms  to support our customer, 
the livestock value chain and other stakeholders to address the environmental challenges facing our planet:  
-Improving the lifetime performance of farm animals
-Making efficient use of natural resources
-Reducing emissions from livestock
-Helping tackle antimi crobial resistance
-Reducing our reliance on marine resources
-Improving the nutritional quality of  meat, milk, fish and eggs while reducing food loss and waste
To tackle these challenges , we have an extensive existing portfolio  structured  into Essential Pr oducts and Performance 
Solutions.  
Our Essential Products  provide our customers with the highest quality core vitamins, premixes and carotenoids that are 
essential for life and lie at the heart of an animal’s healthy development, all delivered in the most flexible and tailored 
way.  
Covering enzymes, microbes and eubiotics, our Performance Solutions  combat mycotoxins and tackle antimicrobial 
resistance. They also optimize gut health, feed conversion and feed efficiency, thereby reducing emissions from lives tock. 
As a result, fewer natural resources, such as land and water, are needed for the production of animal protein production.   
In addition to our Essential Products and Performance Solutions, we are also successfully  rolling out our methane -
reducing feed  additive for ruminants, Bovaer ® and further extending our capabilities in precision nutrition, building on the 
foundations of our globally recognized Optimum Vitamin Nutrition™ (OVN™)  concept. More information on our solutions 
for sustainable animal farming can be found in the case study  in this Report .  
The growing demand for (personalized ) health solutions  
Despite growing understanding of the central  role of nutrition  in supporting immune function and healthy growth and 
development, the world continues to face a wide range of food -related health issues and challenges. In today’s world,  
according to the 2020 Global Nutrition Report , “One in every nine people in the world is hungry, and one in every three is 
overweight or obese. More and more countries experience the double burden of malnutrition, where undernutrition , 
coexists with overweight , obesity and other diet -related non -communicable diseases (NCDs). The trend is clear: progress is 
too slow to meet the global targets. Almost a quarter of all children under 5 years of age are stunted. At the same time, Review of Business – Nutrition  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  93 overweigh t and obesity are increasing rapidly in nearly every country in the world, with no signs of slowing. ” A 2021 UN 
report  indicated that c onflict, climate change  and COVID -19 force d more people into  hunger . 
While many low - and middle -income countries are still grappling with fundamental problems of food and nutrition 
security, the world’s food systems as a whole are coming under growing scrutiny. Food poverty  exists in even the richest 
countries of t he world, as the continuing prevalence of food banks demonstrates . Governments, NGOs, academia  and the 
private sector worldwide need to develop evidence -based approaches that will deliver affordable, accessible and 
nutritious diets for all people in all countries at all stages of the life  cycle.  
The crucial role of nutrition in supporting immune f unction was thrown into sharper perspective than ever during the 
COVID -19 pandemic, accelerating the existing trend toward personalized health and nutrition. The pandemic 
simultaneously accelerated the use of digital communications in delivering these solu tions, as consumers increasingly 
sought to boost their immune systems with the aid of fortified foods and dietary supplements  researched and purchased 
online . 
There is growing interest worldwide in personalized nutrition  — science -based, data -driven nutrit ional solutions tailored 
to consumers' specific health goals and needs. Differences in age, genotype and health status mean that individuals can 
react in very different ways to the same foods. Personalized nutrition allows individuals to make dietary choic es tailored to 
their specific needs, reducing their  exposure to a wide range of non -communicable diseases and helping to lower 
healthcare costs.  
There is also a growing demand for plant -based alternatives  alongside traditional meat , fish  and dairy products , as 
consumers search for foods that deliver an authentic eating experience without compromising on taste and texture. 
Whether for personal, health or sustainability reasons, or from plain curiosity, more and more people are adding plant -
based options to t heir food choices and are adopting flexitarian, vegetarian, or vegan diets. At the same time, the 
importance of a quality nutritional profile is attracting increasing recognition.   
Our solutions  
Our portfolio of nutritional ingredients  covers a wide range of products essential for good nutrition, food enzymes, 
nutritional lipids,  carotenoids, cultures, human milk oligosaccharides  (HMOs) and hydrocolloids. Our capabilities were 
expanded in 2021 by the acquisition of First Choice Ingredients , a leading suppli er of dairy -based savory flavorings , and 
Vestkorn Milling , one of Europe's leading producers of pea - and bean -derived ingredients for plant -based protein 
product s. Our offering is driven by a mixture of in -house innovation (including partnerships) and targeted acquisitions. We 
also develop, both in -house and in collaboration with partners, our own offerings in the fields of zero -calorie sweeteners 
(EVERSWEET™), pro teins, skin actives and sun filters.   
As a global pioneer in the industrial production of vitamins, we cover the entire range of critical micronutrients , whose 
efficacy continues to reveal itself in new ways. We have, for example, a new range  of Market -Ready Solutions  to enable our 
customers to launch new immunity -supporting products in a matter of months . Rapidly evolving evidence suggests an 
association  between vitamin D levels  and sensitivity to viral infections such as COVID -19. In 2021, we launched our  
immunity -supporting solution ampli -D®, our fast -acting form of vitamin D for dietary supplements .   
In the field of meat , fish and dairy  alternatives , we offer a range of solutions for  analogs that deliver proteins, authentic 
taste and create succulent, c hewy texture. At the same time, because our yeast extracts unlock full umami flavor, 
producers can reduce the amount of added salt in their recipes, improving the health appeal , while our breadth of 
vitamins and other micronutrients as well as nutrition sc ience expertise helps producers to improve the nutritional profile 
of their plant -based offerings. The case study  in this Report provides  more detail on how we enable tastier, more 
nutritious plant -based cho ices for consumers . Review of Business – Nutrition  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  94 Partnerships  
We have many partnerships  that support and accelerate innovation in Nutrition. 
Animal Nutrition & Health  
In Animal Nutrition & Health  we have, for example:  
-The world -leading Feed Enzymes Alliance  of DSM and Novozymes , which brings together the complementary
competences and technologies of our two companies to deliver feed enzyme innovation to our customers
-Veramaris , our 50:50 joint venture with Evonik, which developed an  algal oil rich in  omega -3 fatty acid s EPA and
DHA for aquaculture and pet food  without using wild -caught fish
-Our 75:25 partnership Yimante  (Hubei Province, China), with Nenter, which strengthens our position in vitamin E,
an essential ingredient in our animal nutrition premix solutions
Hum an Nutrition & Health  
In Human Nutrition & Health , partnerships include, for example: 
-Avansya , our partnership with Cargill to bring sustainably produced, great -tasting,  zero-calorie, cost -effective
fermentation -produced sweeteners to market at scale
-Olatein, our partnership w ith Avril to produce the high -quality, nutritionally complete and sustainably sourced
rapeseed protein isolate CanolaPRO®
-Working with Panaceutics  and Wellmetrix  in the personalized nutrition area; we  combine their competences with
our world -class nutrition science, products and solutions. We aim to be the partner of choice for dietary
supplements as well as food & beverage brand owners that wish to offer personal ized and healthy nutrition
-Our partnerships with the World Food Programme (WFP) , UNICEF  and World Vision  to combat hunger and
malnutrition
Nutrition performance 2021  
Highlights 2021  
-Acceleration of our long-term focused growth strategy , including ambitiou s new Food System Commitments
-Creation of our new  Health, Nutrition & Bioscience organization , with three new Business Groups operational as
of 1 January 2022
-First steps in commercialization of Bovaer® , within the context of wider awareness of methane as  a significant
greenhouse -gas contributor
-Expansion of portfolio for plant -based meat and dairy solutions : First Choice Ingredients , Vestkorn Milling,
CanolaP RO® facility
-Precision nutrition : Hologram Sciences™  (personalized dietary supplement ation),  Suste ll™ and VeraxTM (decision -
making tools for farming )
-Expansion of bio-based activities in Aroma Ingredients
-Expansion of animal gut health activities  with the novel technology of Midori and the development of a new
generation of feed enzymes
Nutrition delivered a very good performance , with 8% volume -driven organic growth. This business cluster  demonstrated 
its superior operational performance and reliability as a supplier as it successfully navigated significant supply chain and 
logistic al disruptions that affected  the market throughout the year, strengthening its customer relationships  in the 
process . A 4% contribution from acquisitions, offset by a 2% negative foreign exchange effect, led to a 10% increase in total 
sales in 2021.  
Nutrition reported 8% growth in Adjusted EBITDA largely related to increased volumes, with a 6% contribution from 
acquisitions and a 4% negative foreign exchange effect. The Adjusted EBITDA margin of 20.6% was slightly down compared 
to 2020 (21.0%) , reflecting some inflationary cost effects toward  the end of the year.  Review of Business – Nutrition  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  95 x € million  2021 2020 
Net sales from continuing operations:  
DSM Nutritional Products:  
-Animal Nutrition & Health 3,502  3,025  
-Human Nutrition & Health 2,207  2,143  
-Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients 484 404 
-Other¹ 122 145 
Total DSM Nutritional Products  6,315  5,717 
DSM Food Specialties  716 648 
Total Nutrition  7,031  6,365  
Organic sales growth (in %)  8 6 
Adjusted EBITDA  1,447  1,338  
Adjusted operating profit  940 919 
Capital expenditure  488 441 
Capital employed at 31 December  9,550  8,305  
ROCE (in %)  10.6 12.6 
Adjusted EBITDA margin (in %)  20.6 21.0 
R&D expenditure  257 241 
Workforce at 31 December (headcount)  16,091  15,838  
1 ‘Other’ covers pharma and custom manufacturing & services activities.  
Net sales bridge 202 1 
x € million  
“Our nutrition business made significant progress in 2021 in terms of 
both operational performance and the acceleration of our strategic 
journey. Core to this are our exciting innovation platforms that help 
drive health for people and planet.”  
Dimitri de Vreeze, Co -CEO, Royal DSM 
Review of Business – Nutrition  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  96 Animal Nutrition & Health  
Highlights 202 1 
-Delivered strong volume-led organic growth of 10%, with good underlying demand further supported by higher 
customer inventory levels
-Acquired full ownership of Midori USA, Inc. (‘Midori’), a biotechnology start-up developing targeted eubiotics for 
animals
-Strong demand from ruminants and poultry during second year of COVID-19 pandemic
-Growth of our swine business as Chinese swine value chain recovered from African Swine fever (ASF)
-First regulatory approval in Latin America and positive EFSA opinion in the EU for Bovaer® methane inhibitor 
solution
-Announcement of plans to realize large-scale production of Bovaer® in Dalry (UK) by 2025
-Integration o f Erber activities to help deliver leading sustainable animal farming solutions, Including food & feed 
safety solutions
-Launch of decision-making tools Verax™ and Sustell™ to pinpoint health issues and deliver farm-precise 
sustainability measurements
-Commitment to enable double-digit on-farm livestock emission reductions by 2030
About Animal Nutrition  & Health  
Animal Nutrit ion & Health serves the global feed industry  with innovative and sustainable nutritional solutions. A pioneer 
since the earliest days of feed additives, we draw on the latest science to provide a portfolio that runs from vitamins 
through carotenoids to cut ting-edge mycotoxin risk management solutions, feed safety diagnostic solutions, gut heath 
technologies, and feed efficiency . We are now developing a new strand to our business that uses independent data 
analysis and diagnostics to pinpoint on the one hand  health issues and on the other environmental footprint , on a 
completely bespoke basis.    
We aim to make animal farming more sustainable  by reducing greenhouse gas ( GHG) emissions  caused by animal farming 
and the consequent pressure on the environment  and biodiversity . At the same time, we strive to ensure that farmers can 
earn a decent living and that people will have access to affordable proteins . Further  information on our Animal Nutrition & 
Health strategy and how we make animal farming mor e sustainable can be found in Strategy .  
Animal Nutrition & Health performance  
Animal Nutrition delivered exceptionally strong volume growth of 10%,  with ongoing good demand in the underlying 
animal protein markets. This volume growth was supported by customers increasing stock levels given widespread and 
ongoing supply chain concerns. This stocking effect from customers was exacerbated in the fourth quarter  by a sharp 
increase in energy costs, heightening inflationary pre ssures.  
All species performed well , especially ruminants and poultry, with swine in China fully recovering  from the effects of 
African Swine Fever and aquaculture showing improvement due to  the gradual reopening of food services. Regionally, 
China and Lati n America were very strong.  
Erber Group , a leader in mycotoxin management and eubiotics, delivered strong results  in its full first year in DSM, with 
€328 million sales and total Adjusted EBITDA of €86 million in 2021. The Erber  Group  activities are now f ully integrated in 
Animal Nutrition & Health.   
Strong demand for poultry  in second year of pandemic  
The poultry industry faced multiple challenges in 2021. These included the continuing impact of COVID -19, which  caused 
labor shortages and logistical const raints  and consequently drove up corn and soybean prices, and the occurrence of HPAI 
(avian  or bird  influenza)  throughout Europe and Asia. However, the year saw a gradual increase in demand as lockdowns 
were lifted, economies began to recover, and activity  picked up within the  food service and hotel industries . The recovery 
had a positive effect not only on poultry but on all the species we support. We continued to help our customers become 
more sustainable during this challenging time.  Review of Business – Nutrition  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  97 Championing sustainability in egg production  
Egg consumption  played an important role in keeping the levels of immunity high among the population at large during 
the second year of the pandemic. Pressure on the supply chain was significant, but we increase d sales of key solutions 
such as Hy•D®, vitamins  and feed enzymes . At the same time, our partnership with the International Egg Commission  
allowed us to communicate our sustainability message to most of the major players in the egg industry, positioning DS M 
as the sustainability leader in this sector.  
Response to African Swine Fever (ASF) drives growth  
African Swine Fever (ASF)  is one of the severest crises experienced by the swine/pork value chain  in recent times. Our 
portfolio of global products and local  solutions enabled us to provide tailored support to our customers during the 
recovery phase of 2021.  
Managing ASF has required the entire swine industry to improve biosecurity, accelerate the adoption of technology, and 
raise professional standards. Despite the smaller size of the overall herd (versus 20 20), we benefited from the increased 
demand for our solutions that these improvements generated.  
Further development of sustainable aquaculture solutions  
It is widely accepted that aquaculture  has an important role to play in providing the world’s growing population with 
protein , with demand for salmon and warm water fish  being of pivotal importance. Any further growth of the aquaculture 
sector must, however, be sustainable and must occur withi n the planetary boundaries.  
During 2021, we further developed our aquaculture solutions in the area of enzymes  for warm water species, expanded (via 
the acquisition of Biomin) our health solutions  for cold water and warm water species, and reframed the vi tamin 
requirements for aquaculture species in our Optimum Vitamin Nutrition™  guidelines.  Raising our profile as partners in the 
development of sustainable aquaculture, the aquaculture component of our ‘We Make it Possible’ initiative was also 
launched.  
Strong growth in beef, positive trend in dairy  
Our activities in the beef sector  continued to benefit from strong exports from Latin America during the year, especially to 
China. Volume growth was accompanied by improvements in product quality, as farmers m ade increased use of our beta-
carotene  to improve fertility rates in cows. There was also increased demand for two other of our products to improve 
ruminant performance: CRINA® Ruminants  (a precise blend of essential oils and nature -identical compounds)  and 
RONOZYME® Rumistar ® (a first -of-its-kind feed enzyme that optimizes  corn starch and fiber degradation in the rumen ). In 
the dairy  sector , by contrast, consumption of dairy products fell during the year, while grain costs for farmers rose. Our 
dairy busin ess nevertheless increased, fueled by sales of Hy•D®, our pure and proprietary vitamin D3 metabolite  that 
improves calcium management and lifetime productivity  in dairy cows .  
First approvals for Bovaer®  methane inhibitor solution  
We received full regulato ry approval from the Brazilian and Chilean authorities in 2021 to commercialize Bovaer ® for 
application in beef, dairy, sheep and goats. We completed the first step in the regulatory approval process in Europe by 
receiving a positive EFSA opinion on the safety of Bovaer®  for dairy cattle . We worked with partners from the dairy value 
chain to prepare for the introduction of Bovaer® in further markets worldwide. These activities included trials to confirm 
Bovaer®’s effectiveness in local farming systems  and further build up practical farm experience.    
In January 2021, we published the results of a trial that had been conducted at the Dairy Campus in Leeuwarden 
(Netherlands) in cooperation with a consortium representing  the Dutch dairy value chain. The r esults  show ed a reduction 
in enteric methane emissions of 27 –40% per cow, allowing Bovaer® to gain accreditation.  
In Australia and New Zealand, we worked  closely with industry and research institutes to develop a pasture -based 
application model for Bovaer ® (i.e. for cows not raised in feedlots) . Work conducted at AgResearch and CSIRO successfully 
investigated several forms and feeding models for Bovaer® in different pasture -feeding systems common in New Zealand 
and Australia. Trials took place  throughout 2 021. We also signed a collaboration agreement with Fonterra to accelerate the 
transition to lower -methane agriculture.  Review of Business – Nutrition  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  98 At COP26 in Glasgow , we announced our plans  to realize large -scale production capacity  for Bovaer ® with a new plant  at 
our site in Dalry  (UK), supported by Scottish Enterprise. The new plant is scheduled to come on stream in 2025. As 
emphasized by the First Minister of Scotland at the announcement, Scotland offers a welcoming and supportive 
environment for innovation and production, and is  leading the way for a net-zero future.   
Commencement of vitamin E production by Yimante  
Following an extensive upgrade to ensure compliance with our safety, health and environmental standards, production 
commenced at our vitamin E plant in China, Yimante  (owned 75/25 with Nenter). Operations started successfully in 2021. 
With a gradual ramp -up, we reached our targeted utili zation rate by the end of the year.  
Integration of Biomin  
Following our acquisition of activities from the  Erber Group in 2020, we integrated Biomin  into DSM during 2021 . 
The result  of the Biomin integration  is a single, expanded Animal Nutrition & Health business  with the capacity and 
capabilities to lead globally in facilitating sustainable animal protein produ ction . This reconfigured business has an 
unparalleled network of more than 5 5 premix and additives  plants and a unique portfolio of highest -quality core vitamins, 
premixes, carotenoids, feed enzymes, microbes and eubiotics to address the new challenges fac ing the animal farming 
community. With scientific centers of excellence in Switzerland and Austria , and  worldwide R&D capabilities  and technical 
expertise, this business  combines global thought leadership with the advantages of local knowledge and connecti ons.      
Strong increase in sales of  Veramaris® algal -based omega -3 
Utilization of our Veramaris facility in Blair (Nebraska, USA) further ramped up during the year . Continuous yield and 
potency improvements further enhanced the value of our Veramaris® al gal oil , which is rich in both EPA and DHA omega -3 
fatty acids. The uplift within the food service and hotel industries sector in 2021 helped generate a quarter -by-quarter 
increase in sales of Veramaris®, which was reflected in a 150% rise in volume versus  2020 as we expanded into additional 
geographies and channels , building our presence in petfood, warm water fish, shrimp and salmonids .  
Enabling the replacement of antibiotic growth promoters (AGPs)  in China  
In view of the scale of the challenge of transitioning to AGP -free production, the Chinese Ministry adopted a two -phase 
approach. During phase 1  (July – December 2020) , the sale of feeds containing AGPs was still  permitted . However, during 
phase 2  (January – June 2021), the sale of feeds containi ng AGPs was  prohibited, stimulating demand for alternative 
nutritional solutions to manage animal  gut health . Our solutions include Balancius ®, which supports digestion  and 
gastrointestinal functionality and improves performance , and VevoVitall®,  which com bats the negative activity of micro -
organisms on feed.   
Launch of Sustell ™ and Verax ™ 
In May  2021,  we launched Sustell™  – an intelligent sustainability service that combines the most advanced environmental 
foot printing calculation tool with expert sustain ability, animal production and nutritional knowledge to create tailor -
made, practical solutions and business development projects that enhance the environmental sustainability and 
profitability of animal farming.  The launch of  Sustell™  underlines our commi tment to our strategic initiative ‘We Make It 
Possible ’, which has the objective to drive  a robust and achievable global transformation toward  sustainable animal 
protein production.  
In the US , we also introduced Verax™  – a data -driven, blood -based, biomarker -screening service that uses analytics to 
deliver a deeper and more accurate understanding of the health and performance of animals. This innovative service  gives  
producers  and feed integrators  quick  access to substant iated guidance to improve the nutrition, performance, and 
sustainability of their operations.  
Commitment to e nable double -digit on -farm livestock emission reductions  
Food systems and the climate crisis are intrinsically linked. Not only is food production and consumption responsible for 
more than a quarter of all global emissions (IPCC report 2019) ; it is also highly sensitive to the disruption of the planet’s 
natural ecosystems . Switching to more sustainable production of key animal proteins such as dairy,  fish, meat and eggs is 
essential in order to meet the nutritional needs of the growing global population.  As part of our strategic Food System 
Commitments, we  commit to enable double -digit on -farm reduction of livestock emissions by 2030 .  Review of Business – Nutrition  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  99 Human Nutrition  & Health  
Highlights 202 1 
-Organic growth of 5%,  following 7% growth in 2020, driven by good conditions in Food & Beverage, Pharma and
Dietary Supplements and despite difficult conditions in Early Life Nutrition
-Expanded offering in personalized nutrition  with the launch of Hologram Sciences, Inc.
-Continued growth in dietary supplements  and launch of fast -acting vitamin D form, ampli -D®
-Expansion of position in early life nutrition  during Glycom’s first full year as a reporting entity
-Growth in Fo od & Beverage , driven by continuing consumer demand for healthy and environmentally sustainable
food choices
-Commitment to close the micronutrient gap for 800 million vulnerable people  and support the immunity of half a
billion people by 2030
About Human N utrition & Health  
Human Nutrition & Health provides solutions for the early life nutrition, dietary supplement, pharmaceutical, medical 
nutrition, nutrition improvement  (for the most vulnerable)  and food & beverage markets . We serve these industries with : 
-a portfolio of high -quality products  covering vitamins, nutritional lipids, minerals, carotenoids, nutraceuticals,
digestive enzymes, probiotics and prebiotics  (incl. human milk oligosaccharides (HMOs) , as well as active
pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs)
-a suite of customized solutions (premix, Market -Ready Solutions and personalized nutrition)
-a range of expert services  (e.g., regulatory affairs and formulation expertise, and customized solutions )
Huma n Nutrition & Health performance  
Human Nutrition delivered a good performance with 5% organic growth , of which 4% was volume -driven, building on last 
year’s strong volume growth of 7%.  
Hologram Sciences™ , a new wholly -owned DSM company that reaches out di rectly to consumers, launched its first 
personalized nutrition solution to North American customers.  
Demand for Dietary Supplements  remained favorable and showed good growth , as consumer awareness of the relevance 
of immunity -optimizing products remained h igh. Pharma and Medical Nutrition recorded a very strong performance once 
again.  
ampli -D®, a new vitamin D dietary supplement , was commercialized during the year. This product contains a rapid -acting 
and potent form of vitamin D , providing fast -working immunity support.  
Early life nutrition  (ELN) sales were soft  as this business continued to be impacted by lower global birth rat es exacerbated 
by the COVID -19 pandemic. Our differentiated and value -added portfolio of ELN products provided good market access in 
China at local Chinese ELN producers.  
Glycom , the world’s largest supplier of human milk oligosaccharides ( HMOs ), made good  progress in its full first year as 
part of DSM, with sales supported by the successful launch of our new Culturelle ® probiotic supplements with HMOs. 
Organic sales in ELN applications were flat, but the business now sees activities at customers picking up  as business 
conditions have started to improve in the ELN market.  
The Food & Beverage  segment saw strong growth  driven by continued elevated demand from at -home consumption and 
the gradual reopening of economies.  
Continued e xpansion along the value chain  
A growing proportion of our revenue comes from expert services , such as regulatory affairs and formulation expertise, and 
customized solutions.  Our customized solutions — besides premixes — include Market -Ready Solutions that address 
diverse health o r lifestyle benefits. Our activities in the  personalized nutrition  sector,  which is  a key pillar in our nutrition 
strategy , were strengthened by the launch of Hologram Sciences, Inc.  Review of Business – Nutrition  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  100 Personalized nutrition: Launch of Hologram Sciences  
Personalized nutritio n is a key pillar in  our Nutrition strategy . In 2021, we launched  Hologram Sciences , Inc., a consumer -
facing company that will create brands targeting various health conditions. By combining health diagnostics, digital 
coaching and personalized nutrition, Hologram Sciences brands will provide consumers with more holistic solutions to 
manage their health.  
Hologram Sciences will provide state -of-the-art consumer -facing personalized nutrition solutions that have been clinically 
proven to address a variety of c onsumer health needs. An example is the 2021 launch of d.velop™ , our immune support 
package which provides consumers with our advanced vitamin D formula  ampli -D®, a diagnostic kit, and digital support. As 
solutions are validated in -market, they will be come  available to our customers. Hologram  Sciences  will also work to 
incubate products with our customers and partners, based on the latest consumer insights.  
Continued growth in dietary supplements  
The continuation of the COVID -19 pandemic further intensi fied consumer focus on immunity and overall health , 
highlighting the positive contribution that vitamin D and other vitamins and minerals can make to immune status in the 
context of viral infections. Against this background, demand for dietary supplements grew , further supported by retail - and 
government -led public health campaigns which maintained high consumer awareness of the relevance of immunity -
optimizing products.   
We continued to help our dietary supplement customers around the world to launch new immunity -supporting products in 
record time.  Important achievements in this context in 202 1 included:  
-Rapid forecasting  of consumer demand
-The launch in Australia of ampli -D®, our fast -acting form of vitamin D for dietary supplements. The availability of
ampli -D® in Australia, the first market for its launch, followed regulatory approval by Australia’s Therapeutic
Goods Administration (TGA) for its use in dietary supplements that do not require a doctor’s prescription.  In
addition, we received a positive opinion  for ampli -D® from the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA)  – an
important milestone on the path to market authorization in the European Union
-Complete new range of Market -Ready Solutions
-Immunity probiotics
-Cultur elle®  immune defense product line for both adults and children
-Focus on e-commerce  and direct -to-consumer  channels to capitalize on the shift in consumer shopping behavior
Continued growth in P harma and Medical Nutrition   
Our activities in the pharmaceuti cal and medical nutrition sectors  enjoyed strong growth in 2021.  This was attributable to 
three factors. In the first place, our expertise in supporting our customers’ global regulatory submissions facilitated their 
growth plans and geographical expansion.  Secondly, there was s trong market demand for parenteral and enteral nutrition 
to treat patients at their most vulnerable , including patients hospitalized due to  COVID -19. Finally, there was a generally 
heightened focus on the value of nutrition in medical  treatment , which likewise fueled demand for our solutions.  
Expansion of leadership position in E arly life nutrition  (ELN)  
The Early life nutrition  segment remained  under pressure in 2021 due to low reported birthrates , a continuing trend  
exacerbated by the effects of the COVID -19 pandemic . However, the acquisition of Glycom  in 2020 has helped strengthen 
our position in ELN , delivering more than 20 new customers for HMOs. Glycom is the world’s largest developer and 
producer of human milk oligosaccharides (HMOs), which also have interesting potential applications within the dietary 
supplement and pet food  sectors. In 2021, we  also made progress in obtaining  Regulatory approval for HMOs  in China , a 
leading ELN market . 
Growth in i -Health  
Our i-Health  products continued to see positive consumer response in the US and China thanks  to increased interest in 
self-care, immunity, and overall health and wellness. The Women’s Hea lth portfolio , including the AZO®  and Estroven®  
brands , delivered growth due to impactful new communication campaigns and  new product launches including AZO® 
Women’s Dual Protection Probiotics, AZO® D -Mannose and Estroven® Complete. The AZO® brand was also launched in 
China, with promising early results.  Review of Business – Nutrition  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  101 Our Culturelle®  probiotic range delivered consumption gains of approximately 10%, driven by a shift to larger pack sizes 
and new innovative Culturelle® products covering consumer needs in adult irritable bo wel syndrome ( IBS), Women’s 
Health, Kids’ Immunity and Kids’ Gummies. The brand was also recently launched in Brazil, where it started to gain traction 
despite challenging market conditions caused by the COVID -19 pandemic.  
Heightened focus on healthy choices drives growth in Food & Beverage  
Consumer demand for healthy and environmentally sustainable food choices continued to drive growth in the food & 
beverage sector. The lactose -free segment  maintained its rapid growth tra jectory, while our broad range of ingredients and 
solutions supporting immunity, gut health, and healthy lifestyles  also enjoyed good traction.  
Nutrition Improvement  
Through our partnerships in the public and private sectors, we continued our efforts to cr eate affordable, aspirational and 
accessible nutritional solutions that can help keep the world’s growing population healthy. As part of our new strategic 
Food System Commitments , we undertook to enable by 2030 the closure of the micronutrient gap for 800 million  of the 2 
billion  vulnerable people worldwide who currently suffer  from micronutrient deficiencies.  Rice fortification  has a key role 
to play in this initiative, as discussed  in further detail in the case study  in this Report.  
‘Products with Purpose’  
At Vitafoods Europe 2021, we presented a number of our purpose -led solutions  linked to immunity, gut and brain health 
and more. Taking center stage were our nutrient premixes and Market -Ready Solutions, including our  algal -derived 
life’s®OMEGA . We also demonstrated how brands can leverage the benefits of HMOs  in the dietary supplement space, as 
well as previewing our latest vitamin solution, V-Direct . Designed to help individuals optimize their  health, V -Direct delivers 
vitamin C and B -group vitamins to the microbiome in the small and large intestines, thus helping to boost gut health. Last 
but not least, we presented our broad portfolio of solutions for the maintenance of a normal immune system , including 
ampli -D®. 
Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients  
Highlights 2021  
-Strong growth  driven by recovery in sun and skin care and good demand for detergents and disinfectants
-Launched Resilient Beauty solutions and ingredients  to deliver  sustainable repai r and self -care in the face of the
COVID -19 pandemic
-Acquired  flavor and fragrance (F&F) bio-based intermediates  business of Amyris, Inc ., extending our portfolio for
F&F and cosmetics
About Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients  
Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients offers solutions for customers in the personal care, home care, and fine fragrance 
markets. Our extensive portfolio includes aroma ingredients such as  biobased offerings for aroma, vitamins and natural 
bio-actives, as well as UV filters, peptid es and polymers. Our solutions support the health and beauty needs of an aging 
population with various skin and hair types around the world, and address increasing concerns around global public 
health issues such as air pollution and skin cancer.  
Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients performance  
Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients  recorded strong  volume and organic sales  growth of 21%  in 2021. Aroma Ingredients  
saw continued good demand , with higher retail sales for detergents and disinfectants. Personal Care  saw a strong recovery 
in sun and skin care following the subdued conditions of 2020 that had resulted  from lockdowns and travel restrictions. In 
line with our Human Nutrition activities, the business saw a strong end to the year , with 3 4% volume -driven, organ ic sales 
growth in the fourth quarter of  2021.  
Successful move into Resilient Beauty solutions  
Consumers are increasingly demanding finished products that deliver proven scientific benefits through incorporation  of 
well-known, safe and trusted ingredients.  They are also increasingly seeking  personalized solutions that support inclusion 
& diversity  by addressing factors such as lifestyle choices or individual needs in skin, sun or hair care products . At the Review of Business – Nutrition  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  102 same time, the search for more sustainable products  is evolving from a niche interest  to becoming  a mainstream concern. 
We responded to these  consumer trends with new products and concepts such as our Resilient Beauty proposition.  
Our Resilient Beauty  solutions and ingredients are especially relevant given the stresses and strains of the COVID -19 
pandemic. In 2021, we launched HYA-ACT™ , a power ful range of three hyaluronic acid ingredients offering hydration and 
anti-ageing benefits to promote both skin recovery and skin protection . The new HYA-ACT™ range  complements other 
recently launched market -ready formulation concepts such as the natural s kin bioactive ingredient ALPAFLOR® ALP® -
SEBUM CB  to offset issues caused by wearing face masks ; STIMU -TEX® AS  to relieve and soothe irritated skin ; and 
TILAMAR® PDO  with NØØVISTA™ , a high -quality microbiome -friendly, multifunctional natural ingredient desi gned to 
reduce formulation complexity.  
Acquisition of Amyris, Inc.’s bio -based flavor & fragrance intermediates business  
At the end of March, our Aroma portfolio was exp anded by the acquisition of the bio-based flavor & fragrance (F&F) 
intermediates busine ss of Amyris, Inc. , comprising  seven intermediate products. This acquisition further strengthe ned our 
world -leading biotechnology base with F&F intermediate products and increase d the scale of our biotechnology activities 
in nutritional ingredients. It also broaden ed our offering in Aroma Ingredients with additional biotechnology -based 
products and reinforced  our sustainability profile .  
Innovation in sustainable sun care  
Our commi tment to advancing innovation in sustainable sun care  is reflected in both our products and our formulations . 
In 202 1, we launched PARSOL® EHT , a highly efficient, eco -friendly UVB filter that exemplifies  our future -proof, eco -friendly 
portfolio.  
In 202 1, we also announced our partnership with Albéa , the world’s leading cosmetic packaging supplier, to bring 
sustainable packaging for our sun care formulation prototypes and achieve our vision of delivering a fully sustainable sun 
care offering to our custome rs. 
DSM Food  Specialties  
Highlights 202 1 
-Strong, broad -based growth , supported by re -opening of global economy
-Acquisition of First Choice Ingredients  to further drive growth in biotech -based dairy flavors
-Increasing market traction  for plant -based  meat, fish and dairy alternatives
-Acquisition of Vestkorn Milling  to further accelerate growth in plant -based proteins
-CanolaPRO®  and EVERSWEET™  innovations making good progress
-Commitment to reach 150 million  people with nutritious, sustainabl e plant -based protein foods  by 2030
About DSM Food Specialties  
DSM Food Specialties  is a leading global supplier of specialty food enzymes, cultures, probiotics, bio -preservation, 
texturizing hydrocolloids, sugar reduction, and savory taste solutions  to cu stomers in the food & beverage industry in dairy, 
baking, beverages, and savory. Our ingredients and solutions are widely used to create a broad range of food products, 
from grocery favorites such as yogurt, cheese and soups to specialized products includi ng gluten -free bread and beer, 
plant -based meat alternatives and dairy alternatives, lactose -free milk  and dairy , and sugar -reduced foods and beverages.  
Demand for our products is driven by five main market trends : 
-enhanced taste and texture experience
-improved health and wellness
-sugar reduction
-more efficient and sustainable production
-reduction of food loss and waste
At the center of it all is the consumer, who increasingly seeks food that is health y, eco -friendly , and made using 
recognizable and trusted ingredients.   Review of Business – Nutrition  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  103 With over 150 years’ experience in biosciences and fermentation,  we aim to help our customers provide consumers with 
delicious, nutritious, and high -quality food and beverage options , helping to make  existing diets healthier and more 
sustainable, and giving growing numbers of people around the world access to affordable, quality food.  
DSM Food Specialties performance  
Food Specialties delivered strong organic sales growth of 9% , driven by volumes in the year with good business conditions 
in its key segments of dairy, baking , brewing  and savory , supported by improving conditions in food services. The fourth 
quarter saw a strong acceleration of volume growth , with 15% organic sales growth , partly driven by customers’ preference 
for higher inventory levels owing to  increased uncertainty  around global supply chain and inflationary challenges . 
Acquisition of First Choice Ingredients  
In 2021, we acquired  First Choice Ingredients , a leading supplie r of dairy flavors . With headquarters in Germantown 
(Wisconsin , USA) and three manufacturing facilities in the vicinity, First Choice Ingredients and its approximately 100 
employees have built a leading position in the US taste market as a developer of clean-label, fermented and cultured 
dairy flavors for taste and functional solutions across a wide range of applications.  
Our acquisition of First Choice Ingredients  will be highly synergetic for both companies. We will be able to  further 
accelerate the compa ny’s growth  by offering its products outside the US to our broad global customer base and 
integrating its solutions in to our full offering for F ood & Beverage  customers. Conversely, the  acquisition gives First Choice 
Ingredients access to our own  world -leading biotechnology toolbox, fermentation know -how, and global customer 
relationships.  
Growth in fresh dairy and cheese  
Health and well -being are a key growth driver across fresh dairy, and we maintained momentum in all categories during 
2021. The lactose -free segment  continues to grow significantly faster than traditional dairy worldwide, as a rising numbers 
of consumers, especially in the 18 –34 years age bracket, are turning to lactose -free options on account of their perceived 
health appeal. Ther e was good traction for our broad range of ingredients and solutions supporting immunity, gut health, 
and healthy lifestyles, including our enzymes, cultures and probiotics, as well as vitamins and nutritional lipids from DSM’s  
wider nutrition p ortfolio. T he plant -based dairy alternatives  market, in particular drinks (i.e., alt ernative  milk) , continues to 
grow vigorously. Our Delvo®Plant portfolio of enzymes, which are part of our integrated solutions offering and help 
alternative  dairy producers tailor the  taste and texture of their products, was shortlisted as a finalist at the prestigious 
Food Ingredients Europe Innovation Awards . 
In the cheese segment,  we continued to grow and gain market share, thanks to a broadened and deepened portfolio 
resulting from  the successful integration of  Royal CSK’s specialty dairy solutions business . Royal CSK was acquired at the 
end of  2019 and fully integrated in the course  of 2021. New product introductions also helped drive growth in this segment.  
Baking  and Beverages  
Increased use of locally sourced grains and raw materials boosted interest in our baking enzyme portfolio, helping in the 
global effort to protect against resource scarcity  by enabling the use of locally grown crops and reducing reliance on 
imported raw mate rials. Meanwhile, consumer demand for bread and baked goods  with improved nutritional profiles and 
health benefits  continued to grow.  
The beverages sector continues to seek a reduced environmental footprint and production efficiency improvements, while 
satisfying fast -changing consumer demand for new experiences. Our enzymatic solutions help brewers to boost 
efficiencies and at the same differentiate their offerings with new and preferred flavors in fast -growing categories 
including craft, low - and no -alcohol  beers , and in hard seltzers.   
Continued growth of savory segment in market for p lant-based, vegetarian and vegan options  
There was strong demand for s avory taste ingredients  and further rapid evolution of the market for plant -based, 
vegetar ian and vegan  options  alongside traditional meat and dairy choices . This market continues to boom  as increasing 
numbers of consumers adopt  a ‘flexitarian’ approach to meals. We further expanded our market reach with our 
comprehensive portfolio of integrate d solutions for plant -based meat and fish alternatives , leveraging our full range of 
capabilities in taste, texture and health. There was a marked increase  in the number of customers looking to fortify  their Review of Business – Nutrition  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  104 products in support of improved nutritional clai ms. In November, our first -of-its-kind vegan fish flavor Maxavor® Fish YE  
won a prestigious Food Ingredients Europe Innovation Award , coming top of the ‘Plant-Based Innovation ’ category . For 
more information on the rapidly growing  plant -based fish alternatives segment , see the case study  in this Report . As part 
of our strategic Food System Commitments we are committing to reaching 150 million people with nutritious, sustainable 
plant -based protein foods by 2030.  
Demand for our core savory taste and flavor solutions  based on our yeast extract and process flavor technology platforms 
remained robust  despite a challenging operating environment.   
Accelerating growth in plant -based protei ns 
In Decembe r, we accelerated our growth in plant -based proteins through the acquisition of Vestkorn Milling . Employing 55 
people and based in Tau on the south -west coast of Norway, Vestkorn Milling is one of Europe's leading producers of pea - 
and bean -derived ingredients for plant -based protein product s. The company is well positioned in the alternative protein 
market, supplying proteins, starches and dietary fibers for plant -based foods, pet food and animal feed. Vestkorn Milling's 
proteins, starches and  dietary fibers are highly complementary to our own  portfolio . The acquisition is a further step in our  
strategy to build an alternative protein business and will provide synergy with our innovative CanolaPRO ® rapeseed 
protein isolate, which will commercially launch in 2022.  
CanolaPRO ® provides an excellent basis for meat and dairy alternatives  as well as for sports nutrition applications , 
offering versatile functional benefits in terms of taste and texture, as well as being a nutritionally complete protein.  Having 
established the Olatein joint venture to produce and bring CanolaPRO® to market with Avril in 2020, construction 
continued on the state -of-the-art production facility at Dieppe (France) during 2021 in preparation for commercial 
introduction by the end of 2022. Promising pre -commercial product development projects on multiple applications 
including CanolaPRO® -based milk alternatives, creamy spreads, ice cream, ready -to-mix drinks, and protein bars are un der 
way with various food & beverage companies.  
Fermentative Stevia gains traction  
The Avansya  partnership with Cargill  for fermentative Stevia continued to build its sugar reduction business with the 
sustainably produced EVERSWEET ™ stevia sweetener. The g lobal COVID -19 pandemic has increased societal awareness of 
the need for more balanced food and nutrition for individuals and populations alike. Reduced and zero -sugar consumer 
end-products incorporating EVERSWEET ™ were successfully launched by customers a cross our target segments in 2021, 
with further product development projects initiated. Meanwhile, EVERSWEET ™ was approved for use in additional markets 
in the Americas and Asia -Pacific, with further registrations in the European Union and elsewhere also underway . 
Rebound in demand for hydrocolloids  
Hydrocolloids  are thickeners and stabilizers that dissolve, disperse or swell in water to provide a broad range of important 
functionalities and physical attributes including gelling, texture, mouthfeel, viscosi ty and suspension. Our hydrocolloids 
are primarily delivered in the form of plant -extracted pectin and fermentation -derived bio -gums. Both are used as gelling 
and stabilizing agents in a variety of foods and beverages. Demand for our hydrocolloids rebounde d well in 2021 , driven by 
a stabilization of the gellan gum  / biogums market and strong demand for pectin, particularly outside of China.  Interest 
continues to grow in meat and dairy alternative applications for hydrocolloids, along with  new areas such as soft -gel 
capsules.  Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  105 Materials  
At a glance  
-€1,935 Net sales from continuing operations versus €1,518 in 2020 (in millions)
-28% Organic sales development (continuing operations) versus -12% in 2020
-22.5% Adjusted EBITDA margin (continuing operations) versus 17.9% in 2020
-100% of Engineering Materials plants in Europe run fully on purchased electricity from renewable resources
-100% of Engineering Materials portfolio to contain alternatives with  >25% recycled and/or bio -based content by
weight in final product by 2030
-2 kt CO 2eq emissions were avoided in 2021 by using of bio -based feedstock for Dyneema®
"In a year of volatile market  dynamics , our employees, together with 
our customers and partners, ha ve demonstrated remarkable 
resilience  and flexibility , resulting in strong business results and 
growth  in our Materials businesses ."  
Helen Mets, Executive Vice President DSM Materials  and member of the DSM Executive Committee  
About DSM Materials  
Our Mater ials cluster comprises DSM Engineering Materials  and DSM Protective Materials . The cluster produces a high -
quality portfolio of specialty materials for global end -markets including electrical components and electronics, 
automotive, food packaging, medical, personal protection, commercial marine, and apparel. Through our advanced an d 
sustainable solutions , we are meeting demand for safer materials, greater efficiency and improved environmental 
performance.  
Sale of DSM Resins & Functional Materials  
In 2021, we completed the sale of our Resins & Functional Materials and associated businesses  to the specialty  materials 
player  Covestro AG . 
Review of strategic options for our Materials businesses  
In September, we announced the acceleration of our strategic journey  to become a focused Health, Nutrition & Bioscience  
company. As a result, t hese two excellent Materi als businesses may not be able to achieve  their full potential in driving the 
important industrial shift to a bio -based and circular economy  under our ownership . In this context, we initiated a review 
of strategic options for our Materials businesses, incl uding a possible change of ownership . The Materials business es will 
therefore be managed largely on a stand -alone basis .  
Meanwhile, we will continue to develop our high-growth and  high-margin  specialty Materials businesses . These focus  on 
three growth pla tforms : Improved Health & Living, Green Products & Applications, and New Mobility & Connectivity.   
Trends  
Addressing pressing global challenges  
Our experti se in materials science, combined with our close connection with our customers, helps us develop  engineering 
thermoplastics and high -performance fibers used  in products that are central to our everyday lives . These are found in the 
automotive, construction , electronics, marine, medical equipment, packaging and sports sectors.  Through our innovations,  Review of Business – Materials  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  106 we address pressing global issues such as  climate change and make a major contribution to the  circular and bio -based 
economy and improved health and well -being , especially in the  areas of combating global warming, creating a circular 
economy, and enhancing safety.  
There is a  recognized need to keep global warming  below the critical threshold of 1.5 ˚C. This requires  dramatically reducing 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emis sions. Customers and regulators alike are giving increasingly close attention to  low carbon 
footprint regulations, including, for example, the European Green Deal. At the same time, consumer pressure for stronger 
action on climate is sharply on the rise.  
We recognize our responsibility to help facilitate the creation of a circular economy. Across the globe, circular -economy 
concepts such as bio -based materials, end -of-life material recovery and closed -loop so lutions are hot topics in 
sustainability dialogues. Pressure from consumers and regulators is stimulating  the development of materials that can 
drive the transition to a circular economy — materials that are bio -based, recycled -based, reusable and recyclab le. 
Safety  remains an important consideration. People are increasingly aware of the importance of product safety, including 
safe manufacturing and product stewardship . We offer solutions that eliminate or reduce the use of hazardous 
substances . 
Trends in a utomotive, electronics, medical and healthcare   
An increasing range of applications rely on advanced and high -performance materials  in the fields of automotive, 
electronics and medical and healthcare  applications : 
-In automotive , society’s urgent requirement for sustainable transportation systems calls for higher -performing
materials that enable autonomous, lightweight and more energy -efficient automotive design
-In electronics , consumers are increasingly seeking ‘smart’ , connected,  customiz able products  that require high -
performance materials in order to enable device connectivity, convenience, and efficiency
-In medical and healthcare applications , there is increased demand for medical personal protective equipment
(PPE) , driven by the effects of the COVID -19 pandemic
Resilience in the face of challenging market conditions  
Macro -economic conditions  remained challenging in the second year of the COVID -19 pandemic.  Global supply chains were 
very volatile, being significantly affected b y supply disruptions and raw materials shortages across the industry. 
Nevertheless we delivered a strong performance owing to a unique security of supply where competitors were frequently 
confronted with force majeure situations, which resulted in DSM prov iding relief supplies to their customers.  
Innovation & Sustainability  
Our innovations are focused on delivering sustainable solutions  to meet customer demands for a better environmental 
footprint and the transition toward a circular and bio -based economy.  
Accelerating sustainability value  
In 2021, our Materials businesses took further important steps in implementing innovation programs  to reduce the 
environmental impact  of their operations and to increase the sustainability value they deliver. In line with its commitment 
to offer a full portfolio of alternatives that contain at least 25% recycled - and/or bio -based content  by 2030 , DSM 
Engineering Materials made  specific grades with this profile available for all major product lines  in 2021. DSM Engineering 
Materials accelerated its own carbon footprint and GHG reduction plans and goals  during 2021, helping customers 
futureproof their own portfolios while continuing to differentiate itself in the industry .  
DSM Protective Materials, as part of its commitment to sourcing at least 60% of its raw materials from bio -based 
feedstocks by 2030 , made all new personal protection product offerings , as well as all its composite fabrics products for 
Consumer & Professional Protection , available only in bio -based Dyneema® . Review of Business – Materials  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  107 Sustainable innovation through partnerships  
It takes partnerships to help bring about  a circular and bio -based economy . We have many partnerships and coalitions 
that support and accelerate customer -driven sustainable innovation .  
Examples of our progress through partnerships in 2021 include the following . 
Together with F ibrant B.V., a supplier, DSM Engineering Materials announced a significan t reduc tion of  the greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions of caprolactam and high -performance polyamide (PA6) produ ction, resulting in a new generation of 
caprolactam  known as EcoLactam ®. DSM Engineering  Materials can now offer its Akulon® PA6 portfolio (produced in 
Europe  and containing EcoLactam ®) as the lowest, best -in-class carbon footprint PA6 on the market . 
Initiated by DSM Protective Materials in 2020, our cross -industry coalition  of customers, waste processors and recycling 
companies made significant advances in addressing the recycling of products made with Dyneema® fiber. W orking 
together with the CirculariTeam®  members and our supplier SABIC, we produced  recycled -based Dyneema®  from mixed 
plastic waste  in a pilot project in both a sailing rope (for our customer Marlow Ropes) and a deep -sea trawl net 
application (for our customer Gleistein) , thus applying circular economy principles throughout the value chain.  
Materials performance 
Highlights  2021  
-Strong re covery in 2021 , led by good demand levels together with an excellent operational performance in
challenging conditions
-Announced review of strategic options  for our Materials businesses  in September 2021, including a possible
change of ownership
-Sale of DSM Resins & Functional Materials  and associated businesses
-Acceleration  of own  carbon footprint and GHG emission reduction plans and goals  in DSM Engineering Materials
-Strong progress  toward bio-based and recycled -based alternatives  and customer traction  across our Materials
cluster
Materials financial results 2021  
Materials delivered a strong performance , with a recovery in Protective Materials and a high demand for Engineering 
Materials due to supply disruptions and industry -wide raw materials shortages. DSM Engineering Materials delivered an 
excellent operational performance under these very difficult supply chain conditions . Whereas competitors were 
frequently confronted with force majeure situations, our unique security of supply enabled us t o provide  supplies to their 
customers  as well as our own . 
Volumes were up 6% versus pre-COVID -19 2019 while markets continued to struggle with semiconductor shortages and 
supply chain disruptions throughout 2021. Materials experienced good pricing strength , making it possible to pass on 
increased costs  to customers . Review of Business – Materials  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  108 Materials realized very strong 60% Adjusted EBITDA growth , driven by strong volume growth. Adjusted EBITDA margins 
recovered from 17.9% in 2020 to 22.5% in 2021 due to strong operational lever age. 
x € million  2021 2020 
Net sales from continuing operations:  
DSM Engineering Materials  1,600  1,217 
DSM Protective Materials  335 301 
Total  1,935  1,518 
Organic sales growth (in %, continuing operations)  28 (12) 
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations  435 272 
Adjusted operating profit from continuing operations  331 168 
Capital expenditure  65 63 
Capital employed at 31 December  1,005  953 
ROCE (in %, continuing operations)  34.1 16.4 
Adjusted EBITDA margin (in %)  22.5 17.9 
R&D expenditure  79 73 
Workforce at 31 December (headcount)  2,885  2,857  
Net sales bridge 202 1 
X € million  
DSM Engineering Materials 
Highlights 202 1 
-Strong volume and price development  in an environment of good demand recovery and supply chain uncertainty
-Made good progress  on strategy to accelerate profitable growth  and strengthened portfolio  in medical and food
& water applications
-Accelerated  own carbon footprint and GHG emissions reduction plans and goals
-Good progress  on enabling  shift toward  higher -value, sustainable, bio- and recycled -based alternative materials
with an improved environmental footprint
About Engineering Materials  
DSM Engineering Materials provides high performance specialty materials  that address key market needs in automotive, 
electronics and consumer goods. Besides serving these three main sectors, we offer sustainable engineering materials 
also to specialized in dustries including water management, health/medical, electrical power distribution, food utensils 
and multilayer flexible food packaging.  
Review of Business – Materials  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  109 Engineering Materials performance  
DSM Engineering delivered an excellent operational result in challenging conditions marked by global supply chain 
disruption and industry -wide raw material shortages.  
Accelerating profitable topline growth  
In 202 1, we effectively applied our strategy focused on accelerating profitable topline growth  while improving cost and 
margin manage ment . This strategy also involves further expanding and diversifying into high-growth, high -value markets  
including medical and food & water. 
A key highlight from 2021 exemplifying this diversification was the launch of a new family of medical -grade solutions  
addressing growing customer demand for advanced material solutions. These solutions are intended for use in a broad 
range of medical devic es such as medical gowns, respiratory tubes and inhalers, and will help medical device 
manufacturers improve the quality of care for patients around the world.  
In food & water , we supply advanced materials for components in faucets, kitchen appliances, fo od dispensers and food 
conveyor belts.  
The quest for new and more sustainable forms of mobility, including electric vehicles, remained a key driver for our 
business in 2021. We continued to shift our portfolio toward higher -value, specialty materials  with advanced grades and 
improved properties. For example, w e increased our number of advanced  grades offering high performance in areas as 
diverse as heat resistance, thermal conductivity, electromagnetic interference shielding, electrical insulation performan ce, 
halogen -free flame retardancy, and hydrolysis resistance.  
Helping to shape  the circular and bio -based economy  
We accelerated our own carbon footprint and greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reduction plans and goals in 2021, 
committing to  the following objec tives:  
-Reducing total GHG emissions – including scope 1,  2 and 3 upstream – and the carbon footprint of our products
by 50% by 2030, from a 2016 baseline
-Using 100% renewable electricity in all our production sites by 2025
-Achieving net-zero scope 1 and 2  GHG emissions by 2040 on the way to net-zero across all value chains by 2050
By accelerating our sustainability ambitions, we will help customers future -proof their own portfolios  and achieve their 
sustainability targets,  while continuing to differentiate ourselves  in the industry.  
In June, we announced that we  had successfully halved the carbon footprint of Akulon® PA6  in Europe and were also 
developing GHG reduction roadmaps for Stanyl® PA46 and Arnitel® TPC.  
We made strong progress  in helping our customers transition to a more circular and bio -based economy with our wide range 
of circular and bio -based solutions . 
An example is Akulon® RePurposed , which address es the problem of ab andoned and derelict fishing nets. We  pioneered 
an initiative where by these nets are collected, sorted  in South India , and recycled to create this polyamide . This solution is  
widely used by leading manufacturers of automotive parts, consumer goods, electri cal devices , and industrial equipment 
to create world -class products . The creation of Akulon® RePurposed  enables us to simultaneously reduce  waste in the 
oceans , recycle plastic waste washed up on beaches , and drive jobs for local communities . An example of the use of this 
polyamide i ncludes Schneider Electric’s Merten range of sockets and switches. More information on this collaboration can 
be found in th e case study  in this Report.  
To address growing demand  for lower carbon footprint and the use of more sustainable feedstocks in the sports and 
apparel value chain, we launched Arnitel ® B-MB, a bio -based mass -balanced thermoplastic elastomer, in partnership with 
Sympatex Technologies . By using Arnitel ® B-MB to manufacture its waterproof, windproof, and breathable membranes for 
sports applications, Sympatex can shift to a more sustainable, lower -carbon footprint solution without having to requalify 
materials.  Review of Business – Materials  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  110 DSM Protective Materials  
Highlights 202 1 
-Good perfo rmance  as demand improved versus a 2020 impacted by  the effects of COVID -19
-Growing d emand for bio-based Dyneema®  across all markets
-Provided  next-generation armor technolog y to protect the police  force of São  Paulo  (Brazil)
About Protective Materials  
DSM Protective Materials is the world’s only global and backward -integrated producer of ultra -high molecular weight 
polyethylene (UHMWPE) products. Our premium product brand, Dyneema® , the world ’s strongest fiber™, is 15 times 
stronger than steel  on a weight -for-weight basis, 40% stronger than aramid, yet light enough to float on water. These 
characteristics make  it suitable for a wide range of critical applications including personal protection, workwear, sports 
apparel, outdoor equipment, ropes and slings, synthetic chains, and nets for the aquaculture and renewable energy 
sector s.  
In line with our commitment to protect people and the environment in which they live , DSM Protective Materials has 
developed the first ever bio -based UHMWPE  fiber. So urced from renewable, bio -based feedstock through the mass -
balance approach, bio-based Dyneema®  is our newest innovation in fiber technology – boasting the same performance 
characteristics as conventional Dyneema® with a carbon footprint that is 90% lower than generic high modulus 
polyethylene (HMPE ).  
Protective Materials  performance  
Volumes improved owing to good demand recovery, which together with pricing strength led to good results. 
Growing demand for  bio-based Dyneema®  
Demand for bio-based Dyneema®  continued to grow and gain traction across all markets during 2021. In addition t o the 
high interest for biobased Dyneema for lifting slings used in off shore windmill installation, growth was also driven by the 
decision to include bio -based Dyneema® in two other segments.  In Personal Protection, it was incorporated into all new 
produc t offerings, while in Consumer & Professional Protection, all composite fabric products were transitioned to bio -
based Dyneema®. These changes resulted in the avoidance of approximately  2 kt CO2eq emissions in 2021.  
The journey to making fully circular Dy neema® -based products  
In 2021, the cross -industry coalition  established the previous year  to address the recycling  of end -of-life Dyneema® -based 
products  made considerable  progress. By working together with the CirculariTeam®  members  and our supplier SABIC, we 
were able to produce recycled -based Dyneema®  from mixed plastic waste as a pilot project in both a sailing rope ( for 
Marlow Ropes) and a pelagic trawl net application ( for Gleistein). This not only contributes to preventing valuable plastic 
from becoming waste and the avoidance of carbon emissions compared to incineration, but also helps preserve fossil 
resources. This was an i mportant milestone in our journey to  making fully circular Dyneema® from HMPE post -production 
and post -consumer waste.  
Ropes with Dyneema ® used to salvage  the Ever Given from the Suez Canal  
On 23 March 2021, the Ever Given, one of the world’s largest cont ainer ships at 400m in length, became wedged across the 
Suez Canal after running aground amid high winds, disrupting global trade for almost six days. The ship was refloated after 
a successful salvage operation involving various parties. Lankhorst's Lanko® Force ropes made with Dyneema® SK78  were 
used by tugs from Suez Canal Authority in a joint operation together with Smit Lamnalco, Svitzer, and other stakeholders, 
demonstrating the high performance and reliability of Lanko®Force ropes made with Dyneema®.  
Protecting  the São Paolo Police with next -generation Dyneema ® UD 
Together with body armor manufacturing partner  MKU, we provided  next-generation armor technolog y with Dyneema® 
unidirectional (UD) material to protect the police  force of São  Paulo  (Brazil) . Numbering  more than 100,000 officers, the 
São Paulo Police is the first law enforcement agency in Brazil to initiate a tender for personal protective equipment based 
on the latest National Institute of Justice  0101.06 standards for body armor, which provid e compliance criteria for the 
performance and testing of ballistic materials. The hybrid vest solution predominantly utilizes Dyneema® UD material to 
deliver  new levels of performance and protection while simultaneously enhancing user comfort and mobility.  Review of Business – Materials  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  111 Dyneema® helps Team DSM cyclist to landmark victory  
In April, Team DSM rider Lorena Wiebes  won the first -ever Scheldeprijs road cycling race for women. She put on a powerful 
sprint finish to cross the line first, having walked away from a serious crash with only minimal abrasions just weeks 
previously thanks to the protection afforded by the Dyneema®  in her cycling jersey. When combined with a protective base 
layer, the Team DSM jersey offers cyclists effective abrasion protection at speeds up to 60 km/h, while also reducing the 
severity of open wounds at even higher speeds.  Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  112 Innovation  
At a glance  
-4 Innovation growth themes
-4.4% R&D expenditure as a % of sales (continuing operations)
-19% Innovation sales (continuing operations), in line with our ambition of ~20%
->1,500 scientists
-35 laboratories spread across 1 3 countries
->100 scientific collaborations
About DSM Innovation  Center  
For the past decade, DSM Innovation Center has supported the creation of further opportunities for future earnings growth 
through cultivating purpose -led in novation  across DSM. During 2021, we re -set the foundations of an enterprise -wide 
approach to innovation that focuses, simplifies, and accelerates our ability to create customer -focused, value -adding and 
differentiating innovation by integrating much more closely with our future end -market orientation in Health, Nutrition & 
Bioscience . Together, we:  
-Ensure the quality  of our scientific capabilities , including monitoring and ensuring access to early -stage
technologies with disruptive potential
-Partner  with l eading universities, public -private partnerships , and joint ventures
-Experiment  with all possible innovation vehicles, such as R&D, external  and internal venturing, and licensing
-Drive the development of a business -anchored innovation pipeline  that suppor ts our long -term growth ambitions
Accelerating  innovation  
Science & Technology  
A global, purpose -led leader in bioscience  
We see science as a crucial  means by which we can support the sustainable transformation of the  global food chain,  
address climate change, and overcome resource scarcity through  bio-based and circular  solutions.  Building on 150 years of 
expertise, DSM  today  is a global , purpose -led leader in bioscience , developing a broad range of sustainable solutions for  
the food, f eed, personal care,  pharma, nutrition, agriculture, and materials  sectors. We are  strongly committed to invest ing 
in science  as a fundamental driver of our future growth.  
Making a difference, through bioscience  
Our science -based solutions address many gl obal societal challenges and reach billions of people worldwide. For instance, 
with Maxilact ®, a portfolio of acidic and neutral lactase enzymes, we help dairy -manufactures deliver lactose -free products 
without compromising on taste, texture, and health. N ot only does Maxilact® meet the needs of lactose -intolerant 
customers worldwide, the natural sweetness it unlocks also enables up to 20% sugar reduction in all dairy products.  
We have leveraged our bioscience capabilities to develop human milk oligosacchar ides (HMOs) identical to those provided 
in mothers’ milk. Correct levels of supplementation can provide health benefits during childhood and beyond. In 
particular, HMO supplements can support immunity and gut health, as well as cognitive development. Today , our HMO 
portfolio enables sustainable, cost -effective solutions that can be easily incorporated into different food formulations with 
less than one -tenth of the environmental impact of other, commonly applied methods.  
Scientists and engineers from Verama ris, a joint -venture of DSM and Evonik, have pioneered a way to make marine algae a 
high-quality and sustainable source of omega -3 for aquafeed. In fact, 1  kg of Veramaris® oil yields the same amount of Review of Business - Innovation  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  113 DHA and EPA omega -3 as 60  kg of wild -caught fish. With the world’s population set to reach 9.6 billion  by 2050, the growing 
demand for omega -3 fatty acids and protein has pla ced extreme pressure on wild fish stocks. Veramaris can play an 
important role in meeting that demand, sustainably.   
We continue to invest in science and, during  2021, we further strengthened our global network of world -class R&D through 
the acquisition o f First Choice Ingredients. W e opened a new Analytical Center of Excellence  in Tulln ( Austria ) and  laid the 
foundation stone  of our future  state -of-the-art Health & Nutrition Innovation Campus  in Kaiseraugst  (Switzerland ). These 
facilities will help us a ccelerat e innovation in the field of bioscience  with the application of digital technology in  modern , 
collaborative  research workplaces , especially in support of the extension of our business model to personalization & 
precision.  
Our competences, science net work  and collaborative approach  
Underpinning all of this is our unique  set of  scientific capabilities,  which  are key to our continued success  and will remain 
our foundation for growth. Our ongoing investment ensures that we have the right combination of skills, technologies and 
partners to develop disruptive innovations to meet specific unmet market needs.  At the end of 2021, we had  35 
laborator ies spread across 13 countries, and our science network  comprises over 1,500 scientists  employed by DSM , 
including 20 professors and academic associates, distributed around the globe.  
These employees co -operate with more than 100 organizations including a cademic , institutions  and other R&D partners  
worldwide, both in public -private partnerships and in academic collaborations such as with the Cape Peninsula University 
of Technology in South Africa, Iowa State University in North America, and Wageningen Univ ersity & Research in the 
Netherlands.  
Our open and collaborative approach increases our scientific scope and helps us make joint scientific contributions to 
address significant scientific and societal challenges. We participate in more than 40 industry ne tworks and more than 70 
public -private partnerships (PPPs) relevant to our innovation growth themes .  
Future -proofing our R&D and innovation efforts  
To reinforce our worldwide position as a leader in bioscience  and create greater value for DSM and society at large, we 
continued to align our science and innovation organization with the changing needs of the market as well as with the 
increasing speed of technological and scientific advances in the world .  
During 2021, w e designed a new science and innovation organization, effective from  1 January 2022, that better reflects our 
future end-market organization in Health, Nutrition & Bioscience . This includes simplifying how we operate and integrating 
our va rious R&D centers, including the Innovation Center, more closely with our Business Groups . With priority -setting and 
resource allocation done by those closest to the customer , we will have full alignment from ideation to commercialization, 
and the best opp ortunity for our R&D to make a difference. Above all, we have created  an environment where our 
scientists  can thrive and focus on doing the right things faster and help realize our collective mission to help address 
some of the world’s biggest challenges.  
“By working together as  a DSM-wide innovation force, we can create 
even bigger impact for people, for planet and for our business. ” 
Patricia Malarkey,  Chief Innovation Officer and member of the DSM Executive Committee  
Digital transformation of our R&D capabilities  
Advanced digital technologies are more and more critical for capturing new opportunities, and we continue to increase our 
investments in the digital transformation of our science and innovation  capabilities  such as in artificial intelligence  (AI), 
big data, deep learning and modeling , as well as extending  lab automation . These investments are accelerating our core 
processes, increasing our operational efficiency, and improving the speed of our innovation processes and delivery.  Review of Business - Innovation  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  114 For instance, together with  Delft University of Technology (Netherlands), we started a research program in 202 1 aimed at 
long-term innovation in the field of e -biorefinery concepts . The goal is to develop new insights and methods for using 
gases , such as carbon dioxide,  hydrogen and carbon monoxide , as feedstock s for industrial fermentation processes , 
preventing these gases from being released into the atmosphere. Another example is our translational science  program, 
which will see the creation of a dedicated unit in 202 2 combining digital and analytics specialists who will work in cross -
functional teams drawn from across R&D, Innovation, Regulatory, IP, Marketing, Sales, and other functions, to work 
collaboratively on data -driven, market -valued, customer -centric innovati ons. 
R&D expenditure (including associated IP expenditure)  
x € million  2021 2020 
Nutrition  257 241 
Materials  79 73 
Innovation Center  45 60 
Corporate Activities  21 11 
Total continuing operations  402 385 
Discontinued operations  13 60 
Total  415 445 
R&D expenditure as % of net sales (continuing operations)  4.4 4.7 
Staff employed in R&D activities (continuing operations)  1,522 1,653  
The Bright Science Awards  
We continue to recognize, reward and nurture  scientific talent  outside DSM . Our Bright Science Awards programs reward 
excellence in PhD research in areas of particular relevance  to our strategy  and helps  participants make the vital 
connection between scientific achievement and commercial and industr ial success.  
The Scientific Advisory Board  
We regularly connect with our Scientific Advisory Board  of inter nationally recognized experts  from leading universities 
around the world . The supervision of this Board changed significantly during 2021, working di rectly with our Chief 
Innovation Officer to challenge and review our scientific work across the company, provide valuable perspectives and 
insights, and give advice on trends and upcoming technologies. Following the acceleration of our strategic journey in  2021, 
we made changes to the composition of the Scientific Advisory Board to better reflect our future as a focused Health, 
Nutrition & Bioscience  company. This process was ongoing at the end of the year with new appointments anticipated in 
2022.  
Member  
Thomas Hankemeier (m)  
Kirk Klasing (m) 
Chris Voigt (m) Background 
Professor of Analytical Biosciences at the Leiden Academic Center for Drug Research at 
Leiden University (Netherlands). Medical Delta Professor of Translational Epidemiology at 
Erasmus MC, Rotterdam (Netherlands). Co-founder of MIMETAS, the first organ-o n-a-chip 
company. He has co-authored more than 320 publications and holds over 10 patents. 
Nationality: German.
Distinguished Professor of Animal Biology in the Department of Animal Science at the 
University of California, Davis (USA). He is an extensively published expert on poultry nutrition 
and immunology, with more than 250 peer-reviewed publications, 10 edited books and nine 
awards to his name for his work in animal biology. Nationality: American. 
D.I.C. Wang Professor of Advanced Biotechnology in the Department of Biological Engineering 
at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (USA). He is the co-director of the Synthetic Biology 
Center at MIT and the co-founder of the MIT-Broad Foundry. He is also Editor-i n-Chief of ACS 
Synthetic Biology. Nationality: American. Review of Business - Innovation  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  115 Internal and external  venturing  
The Venturing and Innovation Business Building organization creates and develops new business and innovation 
opportunities  for DSM through (external) investments in start -ups across the globe, (internal) venture -building within DSM, 
and innovation partnerships with other corporate entities.  
External venturing   
The DSM Venturing organization is focused on investing in new external ventures  and supporting start -up companies 
already in our investment portfolio. We made eight new investment s in 202 1, 13 follow -on investments in 12 portfolio 
companies , and generated several leads for collaboration between start -ups and businesses at DSM. By the end of the 
year, our portfolio included 38 start-ups (20 20: 35). For more information , see the DSM Venturing website .  
Internal venture -building  
We evolved how we  build and scale innovative ventures  within DSM in 2021 by means of a revised venture -capital 
approach  with dedicated  entrepreneurial  teams , simple startup -style board governance, and milestone -based funding 
rounds.  
An example of th is approach is the creation of  Hologram Sciences, Inc.  This venture incorporates our activities in 
personalized nutrition in the US within the framework of our Human Nutrition & Health business. Hologram combines 
proven science with new technology to creat e health diagnostics, digital coaching and personalized nutrition solutions 
that help people optimize their health and well -being.  
IP & Licensing  
IP & Licensing is a global group of qualified IP professionals who protect DSM’s innovations  by securing patents and 
trademarks. This group also includes certified licensing professionals who offer expertise for intellectual property -
intensive deals across all DSM businesses, including joint development agreements, technology acquisitions and sal es, 
and in -, out- and cross -licensing deals. DSM filed 239 patents in 202 1. This reflects our continued focus on innovation 
projects with the highest potential for business impact.  
DSM Innovation Center performance 2021  
Sales were 9% lower  compared to 2020, as DSM Biomedical continued to be impacted by the postponement of elective 
surgeries due to the COVID -19 pandemic and by negative foreign exchange effects. Adjusted EBITDA was up versus 2020 , 
driven by higher technology licensing income.  
x € million  2021 2020 
Net sales from continuing operations  168 184 
Organic sales growth (in %, continuing operations)  (4) 1 
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations  26 21 
Adjusted operating profit from continuing operations  4 (17) 
Capital expenditure  2 35 
Capital employed at 31 December  407 436 
R&D expenditure  45 60 
Workforce at 31 December (headcount)  578 579 
DSM Biomedical  
DSM Biomedical is committed to solving some of our world’s key healthcare challenges  through sustainable science  and is 
a trusted partner to the global medical device and pharmaceutical industry , enhancing the quality and delivery of 
healthcare through innovative and sus tainable biomaterials . As of 1 January 2022, DSM Biomedical will be part of the 
Health, Nutrition & Care Business Group.  Review of Business - Innovation  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  116 Our top innovations and partnerships in 202 1 
In 2021, DSM Biomedical and Chemelot InSciTe research consortium started the first-in-human clinical trial for novel scoliosis 
treatment . The research consortium, consisting of physicians and researchers from Maastricht UMC+ (N etherlands ) and 
Eindhoven University of Technology (N etherlands ), works to reduce the severe complications  scoliosis patients routinely 
suffer from corrective surgery.  
We added ComfortCoat® Single Layer coating  to our expanding portfolio of innovative, next -generation hydrophilic 
coatings . Our clinical partners in vascular interventions are achieving best -in-class particulate performance and significant 
operational efficiencies, now in a more sustainable way.  
Our customer Svelte Medical  achieved premarket a pproval for its SLENDER IDS sirolimus -eluting coronary stent -on-a-wire 
Integrated Delivery System, which contains DSM Biomedical’s  polyester -amide (PEA) -based drug delivery material . 
Coronary stenting has been established as the standard of care for keeping the heart’s coronary artery open  and is saving 
many lives.  
Our innovations in both our polyurethanes  and polyethylenes  materials platforms have enabled our partners to 
successfully progress through safety trials and to progress into human clinical trials for next -generation structural hear t 
devices  (including transcatheter valve replacement). 
DSM Bio -based Products & Services 
DSM reached an agreement with International Flavors  & Fragrances, Inc. ’s (IFF) Health & Biosciences division in June 2021 
for commercializing DSM’s advanced yeast technology for first -generation ethanol production. Under the terms of this 
agreement, DSM’s eBoost®  product line became part of IFF’s XCELIS®  Ethanol Solutions pl atform , completing our licensing 
strategy and subsequently the discontinuation of DSM Bio -based Products & Services . 
DSM Advanced Solar 
DSM successfully completed the sale of the coatings activities of DSM Advanced Solar  to Covestro AG  in April 2021 as part 
of the sale of DSM Resins & Functional Materials and related businesses . This was followed by the successful sale of the 
remaining DSM Advanced Solar  activities to Worthen Industries, Inc.  in June 2021.  Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  117 Corporate Activities  
Any consolidated activities that are outside the three reporting clusters are reported as Corporate Activities. These 
comprise operating and service activities, as well as a number of costs that cann ot be allocated to the clusters. While this 
segment reports net sales to third parties from its service units, it normally has a negative operating result.  
Corporate Activities includes various holding companies, regional holdings and corporate overheads. The most significant 
cost elements are corporate departments and the share -based compensation for the company.  
Corporate Activities  
x € million  2021 2020 
Net sales from continuing operations  70 39 
Adjusted EBITDA  (94) (97) 
Adjusted operating profit  (136) (141) 
Capital expenditure  53 34 
R&D operating expenditure  21 11 
Workforce at 31 December (headcount)  1,804  2,039  
DSM Insurances  
We retain a limited part of our material damage and business interruption and (product) liability risks via our captive 
insurance company. In 20 21, the total retained damages were € 27 million.  
Corporate Research  
The function of the Corporate Research Program (CRP) is to develop key Science & Technology competences. Falling under 
the responsibility of the Chief Technology Officer, the CRP typically funds competence development programs with a 
longer time horizon than those run by the Business Groups. It also focuses on competences that have a broader relevance 
for the company. The CRP  additionally supports Science & Technology programs that are carried out with external parties 
and programs covering relevant new trends.  
Share -based payments  
Executives participate in the Long -Term Incentive (LTI) scheme. This links their compensation to  the long -term interests of 
our company's stakeholders. It also provides a vehicle for the attraction and retention of suitable employees. As shares / 
share units have become more prevalent in the market, we replaced stock options with shares / share units  in 2017. This 
resulted in better alignment with the LTI vehicle already in place for the Managing Board and the Executive Committee. The 
use of shares / share units also targets yet closer alignment with the interests of our stakeholders.  For detailed 
information, see  Note 27 of the Consolidated financial statements .  Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  118 Reporting policies  
Financial and reporting policies  
As a basis for, and contribution to, effective risk management and to ensure that we are able to pursue our strategies, 
even durin g periods of economic downturn, DSM aims to retain a strong balance sheet and limit our financial risks.  
Our strategy  has ambitious targets, as outlined in  Strategy . Within the context of this strategy, we aim to maintain a strong 
investment grade and a strong long -term credit rating.  
Most of our external funding needs are financed through long-term debt. Debt covenants are not included in the terms 
and conditions of outstanding bonds and financing arrangements. We aim to spread the maturity profile of outstanding 
bonds in order to have adequate financial flexibility.  
An important element of  our financial policy is the allocation of cash flow. We primarily allocate cash to investments 
aimed at strengthening our business positions and securing stable, and preferably rising, dividend payments to our 
shareholders. Remaining cash flow is used for  acquisitions, targeting investments predominantly in Nutrition and in line 
with our strategy. Share buy -backs will be considered in the absence of value -creating M&A opportunities.   
Dividends are paid out in cash or in the form of ordinary shares at the o ption of the shareholders, with a maximum of 40% 
of the total dividend amount available for stock dividend.  
In order to cover our commitments under the dividend policy and under management and employee option and share 
plans, we buy back shares insofar as this is necessary and feasible.  
We continuously monitor and assess risks arising from currency exposures. It is our policy to hedge 100% of the currency 
risks resulting from sales and purchases at the moment of recognition of trade receivables and payables . Additionally, we 
may opt to hedge currency risks from firm commitments and forecast transactions. The currencies giving rise to these risks 
are primarily the US Dollar, the Swiss Franc , the Brazilian Real  and the Chinese Renminbi.  
We acquire businesses a nd enter into partnerships that add value in terms of technological or market competences. In 
addition, these businesses and partnerships are required to contribute to our cash earnings per share, as well as our 
profitability, sustainability and growth req uirements. In the case of small innovative growth acquisitions, we consider their 
potential to contribute to these requirements in the future.  
Our policies in the finance function are strongly oriented toward solidity and reliability of reporting, as well as the 
protection of cash flows. The finance function also plays an important partner role to the business  and supports  business 
steering.  
For detailed information on our tax policies, see Taxation at DSM on the company website . Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  119 Non-financial reporting policy  
Reporting policy and justification of choices made  
In this Integrated Annual Report, we report for the calendar year 2021. The company reports on People, Planet and Profit 
information in such a Report on an annual basis. The previous DSM Integrated Annual Report was published on 2  March  
2021. We publish our Report exclusively in a digital format. It is available as an online version and as a pdf.  
In the Report by the Managin g Board  section , we explain our vision and policy with respect to sustainability practices and 
report on our activities in this field during 2021. In addition to disclosing data and developments in the categories of 
People, Planet and Profit, we also repor t on the global societal megatrends that drive our strategy, sustainability 
governance framework, stakeholder engagement activities, and management approach on material topics.  
We are in favor of convergence in reporting standards and frameworks, moving t o a single accepted non -financial 
reporting standard. Currently , we recognize and participate in a number of initiatives that are driving toward that goal. 
We proactively seek out the views of key stakeholders on issues of material importance  to the company  and assess to 
what extent sustainability aspects become material to our company and our stakeholders. In the event that specific 
indicators become relevant to the company’s sustainability performance, appropriate actions are taken that allow the 
necessary data to be collected in order to disclose progress in the future.   
The basis for the non -financial reporting in the Report by the Managing Board is Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code . Non -
financial reporting requirements are further defined in  the EU Non -financial Reporting Directive (2014) and the EU 
Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive ( in effect  as of 2023), including the EU Taxonomy ( partially in effect as of 2022) 
and the proposed EU sustainabilit y reporting standards (expected to be effective of 2023). It is  also based on voluntary 
non-financial reporting guidelines such as:  
Global Reporting Initiative  (GRI)  
This Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option. A detailed overview of how 
we report according to the GRI Standards comprehensive indicators, including a reference to relevant sections in this 
Report, is provided in the GRI Content Index . 
UN Global Compact  
We have been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since 2007 and commit to annually report on progress in 
implementing The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, child and forced labor, the 
environment and anti -corruption. This Report is our Communication on Progress 2021, submitted to the UN Global 
Compact office. Our Code of Business Conduct, our Sustainability, Human Resources, and Safety, Health and Environment 
(SHE) policies, and our Supplier Sustainability Program are the foundations  on which we apply the standards of the Global 
Compact.  
UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)  
We have also aligned our strategy with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We are familiar with the opportunities 
and responsibilities that the SDGs repre sent for our business. Based on our mapping, we believe that we contribute to all 
of them, and have chosen to focus on the goals which most closely align with our strategic ambitions. In this Report, we 
continue to include the SDGs into our reporting proce ss, for example by mapping SDG reporting priorities in our value 
creation model, our material topics, and the solutions that we highlight.  
The Taskforce on Climate -related Financial Disclosures  
The recommendations from the Taskforce on Climate -related Fina ncial Disclosures (TCFD) are a set of voluntary, climate -
related financial disclosures for use by companies to provide information to their stakeholders. This Report contains our 
TCFD -relevant disclosures on Governance, Strategy, Risk Management, and Metri cs and Targets. For more information on 
how we report against the TCFD recommendations, see Note 3 Taskforce on Climate -related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) of 
the Sustainability statements . Reporting policies – Non-financial reporting polic y 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  120 Other reporting frameworks  
We align with the recommendations of the International Integrated Reporting Council <IR> Framework where possible. The 
intention of the <IR> Framework is to provide additional guiding principles and content elements for an integrated report. 
We use this frame work to present an integrated view of how the company creates value for stakeholders  in People, Planet 
and Profit, as well as the interconnection between these three dimensions.  
We map our disclosures to other standards and frameworks to support our stakeholders who are using these. You can find 
how our disclosures map to the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board framework and the WEF IBC metrics and 
disclosures in Note 4 SASB and WEF IB C mapping  of the Sustainability statements . 
Selection of topics  
The topics covered in this Report were selected on the basis of  our materiality analysis, which assessed the relevance and 
impact of selected topics for our company and various stakeholders. On the basis of the principle of materiality (using the 
GRI Standards), we distinguish between topics whose importance warrants publication in this Report (relevant to both DSM 
and stakeholders), and topics whose importance warrants publication on the company website only (topics important to 
either DSM or stakeholders). The sustainability data in the Integrated Annual Report  is qu alitative as well as quantitative – 
the qualitative information can also contain quantitative elements.  The Materiality matrix and the process by which it is 
created is reported on in Stakeho lders , with the management approach in Note 1 Management approach for material  
topics of the Sustainability statements . We report on External recognition in Stakeholders . 
Scope  
The People  and Brighter Living Solutions  data in this Report cover all entities that belong to the scope of the Consolidated 
financial statements.  Planet  reporting covers manufacturing units where commercial production by DSM occurs.  
Acquisitions and  divestments  
The People  data for newly acquired companies are reported from the first full month after the acquisition date. The Safety, 
Health (People), Environment (Planet)  and Brighter Living Solutions  data for companies acquired in the : 
-first half of a  given year (‘year x’)  are included in the reporting scope of the year after acquisition (‘year x+1’) .
-second half of a given year ( ‘year y’ ) are included in the reporting scope of the year following the first full year
after acquisition (‘ year y + 2’) .
Divested companies   
Planet and Brighter Living Solutions  (BLS) data are reported until the moment control of the company is transferred , and 
Safety, Health and People data until the end of the month  in which  control of the company is transferred . The date in 
which control of the company is transferred generally coincides with the date a divestment is closed, and control of the 
shares is transferred to the new owner.  
People methodology  
People data are collected per Business Group and consolidated at corporat e level. 
Metrics on workforce and workforce composition, and inflow and outflow are reported based on the year -end figures. 
Employee engagement and the Inclusion index are measured on an annual basis.  
Safety and health metrics are reported on a 12 -month rolling average. Divestments are included in the rolling average for 
the months prior to transfer of control of the company. Occupational health cases and training hours are reported in the 
year-end figures.  
Planet methodology  
Our progress on the key envir onmental performance indicators is collected and evaluated twice a year for all DSM sites. 
The data are based on these sites’ own measurements and calculations, which in turn are founded on definitions, 
methods and procedures established at corporate level . The site managers of reporting units are responsible for the Reporting policies – Non-financial reporting polic y 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  121 quality of the data. Data are collected using measurements and calculations in the production processes, information from 
external parties (e.g., on waste and external energy) and estimates bas ed on expert knowledge.  
Reporting units have direct insight into their performance compared to previous years and are required to provide 
justifications for any deviations above the threshold. For most parameters, the threshold is set at 10%. The year -on-year 
comparability of the data can be affected by changes in our portfolio as well as by improvements to measurement and 
recording systems at the various sites. Whenever impact is relevant, this is stated in the Report. Details for the regions, a s 
well as t he methodology and calculations, are published on the company website , together with an explanation of the 
definitions used.  
Brighter Living Solutions  
Brighte r Living Solutions (BLS) is DSM’s program for the development of sustainable, innovative solutions with 
environmental and/or social benefits, creating shared value for our stakeholders. Brighter Living Solutions are products, 
services and technologies that , considered over their life cycle, offer a superior environmental impact (ECO+) and/or a 
superior social impact (People+) when compared to the mainstream alternative for the same application. The impact of 
Brighter Living Solutions can be realized at any stage of the product life cycle, from raw materials through the 
manufacturing process to potential re -use and end -of-life disposal. We report twice a year the percentage of Brighter 
Living Solutions within the business portfolio.  
The Mainstream Reference S olution (MRS) is the product or service with which the DSM solution is compared. The MRS is 
determined based on the marketing strategy. It is the competing dominant solution in the same application. It can be 
either a similar solution from another supplier  or a solution using an alternative technology to fulfil the same function , or, 
if the solution and its application are new to the market, or the marketing strategy is focused on market growth, the 
solution should be compared with the benchmark situation w ithout using the solution.  
Within the BLS program, we conduct an annual ‘Product Category Sustainability Review’ for all product categories. This 
review identifies environmental and social impact differentiators and risks for each of our product categories  and confirms 
the mainstream reference solution. To substantiate the identified differentiators comparative Life Cycle Assessments 
(LCAs) and/or expert opinions to determine whether a product has a superior performance and can be identified as a 
Brighter L iving Solution.  The Sustainability Assessments to support the qualification for Brighter  Living Solutions are 
required to be made by internal Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) experts and reviewed using the four -eyes principle with at 
least one internal, independent senior LCA consultant. The financial data are validated with the Corporate Sustaina bility 
department and consolidated as DSM Brighter Living Solutions KPI performance and reviewed by Group Control & 
Accounting.  Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 202 1 122 Corporate governance and risk 
management  
Corporate governance  
Koninklijke DSM N.V. (Royal DSM) is a company limited by shares  listed on Euronext Amsterdam. It is managed by a 
Managing Board together with an Executive Committee and  an independent Supervisory Board. Members of the Managing 
Board and the Supervisory Board are appointed (and, if necessary, dismissed) by the General Meeting of Shareholders.  
The company is governed by Dutch law  and by its Articles of Association , which c an be consulted on the company website . 
The General Meeting of Shareholders decides on any amendment to the Articles of Association by an absolute maj ority of 
the votes cast. A decision to amend the Articles of Association may only be taken at the proposal of the Managing Board, 
subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board.  
At DSM,  we fully  inform our  stakeholders  about our corporate objectives, the  way our company is managed, and our 
company ’s performance. In doing so, we aim to pursue an open dialogue with our shareholders and other stakeholders.  
Our company has an organizational structure  built around Business Groups that are empowered to perform all short - and 
long-term business functions. In this , they are assisted by support and corporate functions, as well as by regional 
organizations.  
Managing Board and Executive  Committee  
The Executive Committee  was installed to enable faster strategi c alignment and operational execution by increasing our 
focus on the development of our business, innovation and people.  
The Executive Committee  comprises the Managing Board members as well as four senior executives with responsibility 
respectively for DSM  Food Specialties and Corporate Mergers  & Acquisitions (Philip Eykerman), the DSM Materials cluster 
(Helen Mets), the DSM Innovation Center (Patricia Malarkey), and People & Organization ( Cristina Monteiro ). Due to a 
temporary leave of absence on the part of Cristina Monteiro as of 15 October 2021, Geraldine Matchett took over 
responsibility for People & Organization on an ad interim basis. Upon the retirement of Chris Goppelsroeder as President 
DSM Nutritional Products, Dimitri de Vreeze stepped into this role in his capacity as Chief Operating Officer as of 1 April 
2021. The senior executives serving on the Executive Committee are appointed by the Co-CEOs  after consultation with the 
Supervisory Board. The Executive Committee focuses on topics such as our c ompany ’s overall strategy and direction, 
review of business results, functional and regional strategies, budget -setting, and people and organization. The statutory 
responsibilities of the Managing Board remain unchanged.  
The Managing Board  is ultimately re sponsible for our company ’s strategy, portfolio management, the deployment of 
human capital and financial capital resources, the risk management system, financial performance, and performance in 
the area of sustainability. The Managing Board is thus also a ccountable to the Supervisory Board for our strategy and 
management. Notwithstanding that accountability, the full Executive Committee attends the Supervisory Board meetings.  
The Managing Board consists of two or more members, to be determined by the Super visory Board . The Managing Board  
currently consists of Co -CEOs Geraldine Matchett and Dimitri de Vreeze ; more details  can be found in Supervisory Board 
and Managing Board Royal DSM . Since the introduction of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code  in 2004, members of the 
Managing Board have been appointed for a period of four years.   Corporate governance and risk management  – Corporate governance  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 20 21 123 The members of the Managing Board are col lectively responsible for the management of DSM . In addition to this collective 
responsibility, Managing Board members have individual responsibility for certain tasks, business es, functional areas and 
regions. The distribution of these tasks is published on the company website . 
The remuneration  of Managing Board members is determined by the Supervisory Board based on the remuneration policy 
approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders. The remuneration policy for the Managing Board can be found on the 
company website . 
The funct ioning of and decision -making within the Managing Board and the Executive Committee are governed by the 
Regulations  of the Managing Board, which are in accordance with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code and can be found 
on the company website . 
In 20 21, the Managing Board and Executive Committee h eld 36 formal meetings . Due to the C OVID -19 restrictions most of 
these were held virtually. No Managing Board member had to be excused from meetings during the year. One Executive  
Committee  member was excused once for personal reasons. Another  Executive Committee member was excused twice for 
personal reasons and once on accou nt of another commitment . A third Executive Committee member was also excused 
once due to another commitment. In all cases the Executive Committee member s gave advance input  in writing or via 
other members . The Executive Committee and Managing Board take t he time for an evaluation at the end of every meeting. 
This evaluation can be about topics that have been discussed during that meeting, but may also reflect on meeting 
dynamics and individual or collective performance. Where possible, the Executive Commit tee also take s the opportunity to 
organize informal moments such as a collective dinner at the end of a full -day meeting. Once a year, the Executive 
Committee and Managing Board take the time to get together and discuss their performance as a team.  
Supervi sory Board  
The Supervisory Board  comprises at least five members. Its current composition  can be found in  Supervisory Board and 
Managing Board Royal DSM . Supervisory Board members are appointed  for a period of four years, after which they may be 
reappointed for a further four years. A Supervisory Board member may subsequently be reappointed for a period of two 
years, and this appointment may be extended b y at most two years. For reappointments after an eight -year period, 
reasons must be provided in the report by the Supervisory Board.  
All current members  of the Supervisory Board are independent  in accordance with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. 
The remuneration  of Supervisory Board members is determined by the General Meeting of Shareholders. The functioning 
of and decision -making within the Supervisory Board are governed by the Regulations of the Supervisory Board, which are 
in accordance with the Dut ch Corporate Governance Code and can be found on the company website . 
The Supervisory Board supervises the policy  pursued by the Managing Boa rd, the Managing Board ’s performance  of its 
managerial duties, and the company ’s general course of affairs , taking the interests of all the company ’s stakeholders into 
account. When the Executive Committee was established, the Supervisory Board also took o n responsibility for ensuring 
that the checks and balances  that are part of the two -tier system are still given due consideration, paying specific 
attention to the dynamics between Managing Board and Executive Committee. The Supervisory Board is enabled to  do so 
through the information provided by the Managing Board.  
The annual financial statements  are approved by the Supervisory Board and then submitted to the Annual General 
Meeting of Shareholders (AGM) for adoption, accompanied by an explanation from the  Supervisory Board as to how it 
carried out its supervisory duties during the year under review.  
In line with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, the Supervisory Board sit variously on an Audit Committee, a 
Nomination Committee , a Remuneration Committee , and a Sustainability Committee.  
The task of these committees  is to prepare the decision -making of the Supervisory Board. These committees are governed 
by charters drawn up in line with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. They can be found on the company website .  Corporate governance and risk management  – Corporate governance  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 20 21 124 Diversity  
At DSM, we strongly value diversity, and we endeavor to reflect this in our Board memberships. The Supervisory Board has 
formulated  diversity policies  for the Supervisory Board, the Managing Board and the Executive Committee. These policies 
seek a balanced  composition of the respective body, taking into account gender, age, knowledge, experience, and 
nationality / cultural background. In addition, for the composition of the Supervisory Board, the tenure structure is taken 
into consideration . 
In terms of gender diversity , we aim for at least 30% of the positions in our Supervisory Board, Managing Board and 
Executive Committee to be held by women and at least 30% by men — percentages which reflect Dutch legislation . To 
ensure a balanced composition in terms of  nationality / cultural background, our aim is not to have more than 50% of the 
members of our Supervisory Board or Executive Committee drawn from a single nationality. While a diverse composition in 
terms of nationality / cultural background is also taken  into account in the composition of the Managing Board, no 
quantitative target is set here, given the relatively small number of Managing Board members.  
Our diversity policies are implemented by applying them to nominations for (re)appointments  of Supervis ory Board and 
Managing Board members as well as to appointments of Executive Committee members.  
At the 20 21 Annual General Meeting  Frits van Paa sschen , a Dutch -American  national, was reappointed as member of the 
Supervisory Board . This was  on the basis of  his broad experience as a global business leader in both consumer markets 
and the service industry in various parts of the world, his deep understanding of the current trends that are impacting 
business around the world, his insights into how digital tech nology is changing the global economy and disrupting 
traditional business models, and his qualities as Supervisory Board member as demonstrated during his first term as 
member of DSM’s Supervisory Board . With the reappointment  of Frits van Paasschen, the S upervisory Board maintains a 
strong profile in the areas of marketing and sales, emerging economies and digital .  
John Rams ay, a British  national,  was reappointed as member of the Supervisory Board . This was  on the basis of  his 
extensive knowledge and experience in the field of finance and accounting , built up in various parts of the world, his 
extensive experience with managing global finance organizations, with external stakeholders and with mergers, 
acquisitions and dives tments, and his qualities as Supervisory Board member as demonstrated during his first term as 
member of DSM’s Supervisory Board. With the reappointment  of John Ramsay, the Supervisory Board maintains a strong 
profile in the areas of finance, accounting, a uditing, risk and compliance, as well as in the area of emerging economies .  
Carla Mahieu , a Dutch  national, was appointed as member of the Supervisory Board on the basis of  her in depth 
knowledge of and experience with people and organization management i n an international business environment and in 
the context of the strategy of the business at hand. With the appointment  of Carla  Mahieu, the Supervisory Board aims to 
maintain its strong profile in the  areas of people and organization .  
Corien Wortmann -Kool, a Dutch national, was appointed on the basis of her broad background in public administration, 
politics and business. She brings a wealth of experience with and knowledge of finance and economics at executive level, 
as well as of the national and inter national societal and political context  that companies operate in. With her experience 
in the financial sector , Corien Wortmann -Kool will strengthen the Supervisory Board’s profile in the areas of finance, 
accounting, audit and risk  management . She will he lp maintain the Supervisory Board’s strong profile in the areas of 
sustainability, governance, compliance and public affairs.  
Also, at the 2021 Annual General Meeting Dimitri de Vreeze , a Dutch national, was reappointed as member of the Managing 
Board on t he basis of his managerial and leadership qualities as well as from his contribution to the Managing Board and 
Executive Committee during his second tenure as a member of the Managing Board.  
Both our Supervisory Board and our Managing Board were well bala nced  in 20 21 in terms of gender  in the period  until the 
2021 Annual General Meeting (AGM) , comprising 37% and 50% women respectively , and after the AGM comprising 50% and 
50% respectively , which is in line with Dutch legislation and with the company ’s own diversity policy. The gender diversity 
levels within our Supervisory Board and our Executive Committee exceed  our target for at least 30% of these positions to 
be held by women and at least 30% by men.  The percentage of women in DSM ’s Executive Commi ttee is 66%. Furthermore, Corporate governance and risk management  – Corporate governance  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 20 21 125 the composition of both our Supervisory Board and our Executive Committee is in line with our target of not having more 
than 50% of the members drawn from a single nationality.  
General Meeting of Shareholders  
The main powers  of the General Meeting of Shareholders relate to:  
-The appointment, suspension and dismissal of members of t he Managing Board and the Supervisory Board
-Approval of the remuneration policy of the Managing Board
-Approval of the remuneration of the Supervisory Board
-The adoption of the annual financial statements and declaration of dividends on ordinary shares
-Release from liability of the members of the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board
-Issuance of shares or rights to shares, restriction or exclusion of pre -emptive rights of shareholders and
repurchase or cancellation of shares
-Amendments to the Articles of Association
-Decisions of the Managing Board that would entail a significant change to the identity or character of DSM or its
business
The Annual General Meeting (AGM)  is held within six months of the end of the financial year in order to discuss and, if 
applicable, adopt the  Integrated  Annual Report, the annual accounts, any appointments of members of the Managing 
Board and the Supervisory Board, and any of the other topics mentioned above.   
The AGM and, if necessary, other General Meetings of Shareholder s are called by the Managing Board or the Supervisory 
Board. The agenda and explanatory notes  are published on the company website . 
According to the Articles of Association , shareholders who, individually or jointly, represent at least 1% of the issued 
capital have the right to request the Managing Board or the Supervisory Board to put items on the agenda. Such requests 
need to be received in writing by  the Chair of the Managing Board or the Chair of the Supervisory Board at least 60 days 
before the date of the General Meeting of Shareholders.  
The AGM was held on 6 May 20 21. In view of the COVID -19 measures , the AGM was held virtually in compliance with the 
Dutch Temporary Act C OVID -19. Shareholders were given the opportunity to ask questions upfront  and follow -on questions 
during the meeting . All questions were addressed during the AGM and posted as Q&As on the company website . The 
agenda was essentially similar to that of previous years. Additional topics were the remuneration  report 20 20 for an 
advisory vote, the reappointment to the Managing Board of Dimitri de Vreeze, the  reappointment s to the Supervisory 
Board of Frits van P aasschen and  John Ramsay , as well as the appointments of Carla Mahieu and Corien Wortmann -Kool. 
One agenda item relating to an amendment of the Articles of Association was amended prior to the meeting. All topics 
were adopted by the  General Meeting of Shar eholders.  Corporate governance and risk management  – Corporate governance  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 20 21 126 Control effectiveness and continuity assumption  
The Statements of the Managing Board  conform with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code best practice 1.4.3 on 'Board 
Statements'.  
At DSM, we visualize our control environment  as a ‘house ’ that includes the internal control proce ss areas with control 
measures related to strategic, operational, compliance and reporting risks. The elements of COSO (the Committee of 
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission) provide a framework for identifying company activities that are 
carried out to ensure that the control environment is adequately structured. Finally, to make sure that full use is made of 
learning opportunities, monitoring activities include the sharing of findings and experiences as well as the application of 
control me asures across the supporting pillars.  
Our structure for managing risks  is based on a  three -lines  model  (see also Risk management ). Line management within 
the units acts as the first line. Group Risk Management acts as  the second line  together with other departments such as 
DSM Operations & Responsible Care , assessing the effectiveness of risk management and internal control at both  unit and 
corporate level. Corporate Operational Audit (COA) acts as the third line. The scope and frequency of COA audits is 
determined by ranking the auditable units according to the scale of their risk exposure, using a set of defined 
characteristics.  
COA assesses the operation of risk management framework  of the units by performing risk -based audits. These audits  
review the key processes and activities for the specific units. By means of these audits, COA closes the risk management 
cycle and provides ad ditional assurance to the Managing Board as to the effectiveness of the design and operation of the 
risk management and internal control systems.  
COA reports its audit results  to the Managing Board and Executive Committee twice a year. COA also shares an o verview 
with the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board and communicates the executive summary of each audit report to 
Geraldine Matchett in her capacity as CFO and Co-CEO and to Dimitri de Vreeze in his capacity as Co-CEO. 
In 202 1, COA carried out 59 audits. Due to COVID -19 restrictions, most of the 202 1 audits were executed remotely via video 
calls using Microsoft Teams. We continued in 2021 with  the use of smart glasses to be able to observe local situations in 
Corporate governance and risk management  – Corporate governance  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 20 21 127 plants, labs and offices.  In general, aud it findings are considered opportunities for improvement as part of a healthy 
learning culture. In virtually all  of the audited areas (e.g., Operations, IT, Finance, Cybersecurity, Safety, Health & 
Environment  (SHE) , Quality, Commercial) the expected DSM standard was achieved. In the rare event of insufficient follow -
up on a finding, the Director of COA escalated that finding to the Co-CEOs. 
Dutch Corporate Governance Code  
DSM supports the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, which was most recently amended in 2016 and adopted by the 
company with effect from the financial year 2017. We ensure our continued compliance  with the Dutch Corporate 
Governance Code. The Dutch Corporate Governance Code can be found on www.mccg.nl . 
In line with the notion underlying the Dutch Corporate Governance Code we follow a multi -stakeholder approach. Our 
stakeholders are those groups and individuals who, directly or indirectly, influence — or are influenced by — the 
attainment of the company’s  objectives. The Managing Board and Supervisory Board have the responsibility for weighing 
up the interests of all stakeholders.  
Long -term value creation  is embedded in both our company ’s purpose -led, performance -driven strategy  and our company 
culture: O ur purpose is to create brighter lives for all. Sustainability is central to how we fulfill that mission, and to achieve 
this, we consider People, Planet and Profit in all we do. We apply our company strategy  to focus our resources and 
capabilities to addr ess the urgent societal and environmental challenges linked to the way the world produces and 
consumes food . More information on how long -term value creation is fundamental to our strategy and culture can be 
found in Strategy  and People , as well as in How we create value for our stakeholders  and in Our approach to the 
Sustainable Development Goals . 
Any proposed substantial change  to our corporate governance structure and compliance with the Dutch Corporate 
Governance Code should be submitted to the General Meeting of Shareholders  for discussion under a separate agenda 
item.  
All documents related to the implementation of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code at DSM can be found in the 
Corporate Governance  section of the company website . 
Governance framework  
Organizational & operating model  
Our Business Groups  are the main building -blocks of the company’s  organization. They have integral long -term and short -
term responsibility for business and have at their disposal all functions that are crucial to their business success. As the 
company’s  primary organizationa l and entrepreneurial building -blocks, our Business Groups focus on four primary 
business functions: Innovation and R&D, Direct Sourcing, Manufacturing & Operations, and Marketing & Sales. Intra -
company product supplies are contracted by the Business Group s on an arm ’s-length basis.  
In 2021, similar to previous years, the  Business Groups were  organized into clusters , thus ensuring coherence of operations 
and the leveraging of resources within each cluster. The clusters were the main organizational entities for external 
strategic and financial reporting. This structure ensured  flexibility, efficiency and speed of resp onse to market changes. In 
order to ensure sufficient independence regarding financial management, the CFO ha d, and still has , no Business Groups 
reporting to her.  
Our Business Groups receive d services from global support functions and functional excellence departments and were  
supported by the regional organizations. This set -up enabled  us to create a global, high -performing organization  focused 
on meeting its targets and achieving its ambitio ns. The support functions and functional excellence departments were  Corporate governance and risk management – Governance framework  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  128 paid for their services by the users — the Business Groups and, to a lesser extent, other DSM units. Corporate departments 
were  paid from a corporate budget.  
Support functions  provide d those services that can be delivered more efficiently (in terms of total cost of ownership) by 
leveraging them across the company, thus capturing benefits  of scale  and delivering higher quality at lower cost, rather 
than having them arranged in each Business  Group separately.  There are support functions in the areas of Finance, People 
& Organization, Legal, Indirect Sourcing, Communications and ICT.  Each support function reported  to a Managing Board 
member  or a member of the Executive Committee . 
Within suppor t functions, centers of expertise  provide d specialist support, while shared service centers provide d standard 
transactional support. Business partnering is the concept that acts as the interface between the Business Groups and the 
support functions. Busine ss partners consequently have a second reporting line in the business. In order to ensure that 
the functional policies sufficiently reflect regional requirements, the support functions work closely with the regional 
organizations and integrate their advice . 
Corporate functions  (small, high -level groups) supporting the Managing Board and Executive Committee are also seen as 
support functions. The corporate departments are: Corporate Strategy & Acquisitions, Corporate Operational Audit, 
Corporate Risk Office , Corporate Sustainability, Corporate Investor Relations and Corporate Affairs.  
Functional excellence departments  are mandated by the Managing Board to help the businesses achieve excellence in 
their respective fields. They cover the areas of Operations & R esponsible Care, Marketing & Sales and Science & 
Technology. Functional excellence departments support our businesses in improving their performance. They also provide 
guidance in setting aspiration levels and targets.  
Governance framework  
The following fi gure depicts our company’s  overall governance framework  and the most important governance elements 
and regulations at each level.  
The Managing Board and Executive Committee adhere to the Regulations  of the Managing Board.  In addition, DSM has a 
Managemen t Framework  in place which  implies, among other things, that the  units  adhere to the DSM Code of Business 
Conduct and applicable corporate policies and requiremen ts.  
The company ’s strategic direction and objectives are set by the Managing Board. In Septem ber 2021 DSM presented the  
acceleration of  its strategic journey, including the announcement of its new Food System Commitments,  for more detail , 
see Strategy . 
Corporate governance and risk management – Governance framework  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  129 The units  conduct their business within the boundaries  of the Management Framework . This implies, among other things, 
that they:  
-Comply with the DSM Code of Business Conduct, Corporate Requirements and Directives
-Establish the strategy, objectives and operational t argets of their business in line with the corporate strategy ,
investigate various scenarios and related risk profiles , and report on the achievement of these  objectives and targets
-Implement a risk management framework, which includes taking accountability  for the identified risks and related
mitigation through annually signing the Letter of Representation
-Implement  company -wide standards for support functions (systems, processes, vendors, etc.)
-Implement annual functional improvement plans
Independent aud its for all operational units are conducted by the Corporate Operational Audit (COA)  department. The 
Director of COA reports to the CFO and has access to the Managing Board, the external auditor and the Audit Committee of 
the Supervisory Board. Furthermore , the Director of COA acts as the compliance officer regarding inside information and is 
also the secretary of the Disclosure Committee. The Director of COA additionally chairs the DSM Alert Committee, which is 
responsible for our whistleblower policy, sys tems and processes.  
Chaired by the CFO, the Disclosure Committee  ensures the timely and accurate disclosure of share -price -sensitive 
information related to the company and is responsible for the implementation of company rules on the holding and 
execution of transactions in the company’s  financial instruments, among other things.  
A third committee at corporate level is the Fraud Committee , which was installed to ensure structural follow -up of fraud 
cases with the aim of reducing fraud exposure. Relevant cor porate functions participate in the Fraud Committee, which is 
chaired by the Group Controller . 
Sustainability Governance Framework  
Managing Board  
Sustainability  falls under the responsibility of the Managing Board.  Specific actions in our climate action agenda  are 
owned by members of the Managing Board and Executive Committee.  In 2021, our Co-CEOs oversaw Sustainability as a key 
responsibility and company value  as well as a driver of business growth.  They Co-Chair our Inclusion & Diversity Council, 
and jointly oversaw our strategic partnership with the World Economic Forum . 
In 20 21, our Co-CEO Dimitri de Vreeze  was responsible for Safety, Health and Environ ment  (SHE) and supervised our 
Sustainable Procurement Program  and the sourcing of electricity from renewable sources in his responsibility for the 
Sourcing function . He managed  our engagement with organizations with a primary focus relating to climate . Within the 
climate action agenda, he was  responsible for the upgrading of our methodology for measuring the impact of our product 
portfolio, for our climate advocacy efforts , and for reviewing our emissions reduction targets . He was also responsible for 
overall supervision of the full climate action agenda.  
Our Co-CEO Geraldine Matchett  oversaw our engagement with organizations with a primary focus relating to nutrition and  
malnutrition . She  was responsible for integrat ing Sustainability into financial decision -making . She also oversaw our 
efforts and commitment toward the Taskforce on Climate -related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations . Within 
the climate action agenda, she was responsible for integrating climate ri sks into our risk management process , TCFD, 
carbon pricing  and developing our engagement with climate -focused investors . 
Supervisory Board  
Our Supervisory Board has its own Sustainability Committee  to oversee progress against targets and to report on the 
embedding of sustainability across the organization. For more details, see  Supervisory Board Report . Corporate governance and risk management – Governance framework  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  130 External Sustainability Advisory Board  
Comprising a diverse international group of thought leaders, DSM ’s Sustainability Advisory Board  acts as a sparring partner 
for the Managing Board and senior executives, to help sharpen their focus on strategic issues, deepen their understanding 
of external stakeholder needs , conduct advocacy and tackle specific issues as  they arise .  
The Sustainability Advisory Board  met twice  in 20 21 together with the Managing Board and a number of senior executives.  
Subjects addressed included business updates , with a focus on Africa, carbon offsetting,  on-farm emissions reductions 
and SustellTM, the food systems transformations  and our proteins innovation pipeline . Due to the virtual nature of th ese 
meeting s, this  board was unable to include a site visit as part of the meeting . This board maintains a good balance of 
knowledge and a dive rse composition in terms of gender and nationality.  
Sustainability Advisory Board  
Member  Background  
Robin Chase (f)  Co-founder and former CEO of Zipcar, co -founder of Veniam and the New Urban Mobility Alliance, 
Board member of the World Resources Institute and Chair of Tucows . Serves as an informal 
advisor to many cities, national governments, and transport agencies on urban transportation 
planning and innovation . Nationality: American.  
Ertharin Cousin (f)  CEO and Founder, Food Systems for the Future, Distinguished Fellow with The Chicago Council on 
Global Affairs, Visiting Scholar at Stanford University, Robert von Weizsäcker Fellow at the Bosch 
Academy, Senior Advisor ClimateWorks and a Board Member of Bayer S.A., Mondelez International 
Corporation, and Camelot North America as well as a Trustee on the Rwanda - based 
AKADEMIYA2063 Board of Directors. She served as th e twelfth Executive Director of the United 
Nations World Food Programme from 2012 to 2017 and as the US Ambassador for Food and 
Agriculture. Nationality: American.  
Paul Gilding (m)  Social entrepreneur, author and corporate strategy advisor. Fellow at the University of Cambridge 
Institute for Sustainability Leadership (UK). Author of The Great Disruption  (Bloomsbury, London, 
2011). Executive director of Greenpeace International during the 1990s. Nationality: Australian.  
David King (m)  Emeritus Professor of Chemistry, University of Cambridge; Founder and Chair of the Centre for 
Climate Repair in the University; Chair of the Climate Crisis Advisory Group, an Affiliate Partner of 
SYSTEMIQ Limited; Senior Strategy Advis or to the President of Rwanda; and founder member of 
the Clean Growth Leadership Network; The British Foreign Secretary’s Special Representative on 
Climate Change 2013 –2017. Nationality: British.  
Ndidi Nwuneli (f)  Social entrepreneur and Founder of LEAP Af rica, Nourishing Africa  and Changing Narratives Africa , 
and co -founder of AACE Food Processing & Distribution Ltd. (AACE Foods), an indigenous agro -
processing company in Nigeria. She is also the managing partner of Sahel Consulting Agriculture & 
Nutrition,  which works across Africa, transforming the nutrition and agriculture landscapes  via 
innovative ecosystem solutions. She is the author of the book Food Entrepreneurs in Africa: 
Scaling Resilient Agriculture Businesses (Routledge, 2021). Nationality: Niger ian. 
Ye Qi (m)  Director of the Institute for Public Policy at Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, and 
Cheung Kong Professor of Environmental Policy at Tsinghua University in Beijing (China). Before 
joining Tsinghua, he taught at Beijing Normal University, and the University of California at 
Berkeley (USA). Nationality: American.  
Feike Sijbesma (m)  Honorary Chairman of Royal DSM since March 2020, and former  CEO between 2007 and 2020. In 
2020, he acted as the Special Corona Envoy for the Netherlands.  He is Chairman of the Supervisory 
Board of Royal Philips, non -executive Board member of Unilever and member of the Supervisory 
Board of the Dutch Central Bank (DNB). He co -chairs the Global Centre for Adaptation together 
with Ban Ki Moon and ac ts as an advocate and leader for business tackling climate change . As co-
chair of the WEF Climate Leaders and via his membership of the Board of Trustees of the WEF , he 
also contributes to the expansion of Africa Improved Foods.  Nationality: Dutch . Corporate governance and risk management – Governance framework  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  131 Global network  
Sustainability Leadership Team  
At corporate level, sustainability is steered by our Sustainability Leadership Team , a group of senior executives 
representing the Business Groups and contributing corporate functions, which is chaired by the Vice President 
Sustainability. He leads the Corporate Sustainability department and reports directly to the Co-CEOs. The Corporate  
Sustainability staff function s as a business -oriented center of excellence  and partner on sustainability, internally and 
externally.  
The Sustainability Leadership Team meets quarterly to monitor the progress of sustainability across the company, with 
particular emphasis on steering our business and innovation portfolio  in relation to key drivers. Regional operational 
sustainability networks  are in place in China, India, Latin America and North America.  
Operations & Responsible Care  
DSM Operations & Respons ible Care has responsibility for all corporate issues related to Safety, Health and Environment 
(SHE). This also includes security . The Senior Vice President DSM Operations & Responsible Care reports directly to the 
Managing Board. SHE managers provide support at Business Group level. Our SHE Council, which includes all Business 
Group SHE managers, is instrumental in sharing experien ces and developing best practices and communications on SHE 
issues.  
People and Organization  
Our Inclusion & Diversity (I&D) Council steers the overall I&D strategy and drives activation of our I&D program. Co -chaired 
by the Co -CEOs, it comprises the region al presidents and Employee Resource Group leads. In addition, the five diversity 
pillars are sponsored by Executive Board members.  
The day -to-day responsibility for Human Rights at DSM sits with our Executive Vice President People & Organization , who 
chairs our Human Rights Steering Committee. This committee is responsible for the strategy and framework for managing 
human rights issues and is comprised of senior leaders from People & Organi zation, Sustainability, Legal, Procurement 
and Operations . These de partments are further represented in the human rights working group who are responsible for 
the day -to-day implementation of our respect for human rights.  
Taskforce on Climate -related Financial Disclosures  
In her capacity as CFO, Ms. Matchett has appointed  a finance executive to lead the efforts needed to address the 
recommendations of the Taskforce on Climate -related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Senior leaders from various disciplines 
such as Finance, Risk Management, Sustainability, Insurances, Operation s & Responsible Care and Sourcing worked on 
various  initiatives in 2021 to expand physical and transition risk assessments , as well as continuing to embed climate -
related risks into the overall risk management processes . For more information, see  Note 3 Taskforce on Climate -related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) of the Sustainability statements . Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  132 DSM Code of Business Conduct  
Introduction  
The DSM Code of Business Conduct ( ‘the Code ’) serves as an umbrella for several other DSM regulations and forms the 
basis for our company ’s ethical business behavior . Our purpose, our culture and our business principles are an integral  
part of the Code. The business principles translate our purpose into important do's and don ’ts to guide our business 
operations and decisions in daily practice. In 2021, two new business principles were added to the Code. The business 
principle on social media guides  DSM employees to act as DSM ambassadors  when using social media  in relation to the 
company. The business principle on quality is aimed at creating a positive customer experience by assuring quality of our 
operations and  traceability in our supply chain.  All DSM employees are expected to follow the Code, which is available in 
seven languages. The full text of the Code also appears on the company website . The Managing Board holds DSM ’s unit 
management accountable for compliance  with the code . 
DSM Code of Business Conduct and values training program  
Training and awareness  
The DSM values training program  contains several e -learning courses to explain the Code and a number of its business 
principles in more detail. These courses are aimed at raising awareness of ethical business behavior and are assigned to 
all employees or, in the case of  certain subject s, to specific target audiences. All courses are available in at least six 
languages, unless indicated otherwise. When we acquire a business, integration and compliance plans are rolled out to 
make sure new employees are trained  accordingly . 
A review team , chaired by the Vice President Risk Management  & Internal Control , monitors the internal and external 
developments around corporate ethics to promote and safeguard the company ’s values and reputation. The review team 
also monitors implementation of the DSM val ues training program (see table Implementation of the DSM values ). At year -
end, most employees had completed or refreshed their training (excluding employees of some recently acquired 
businesses). Our learning man agement system also has an external portal to enable relevant contractors and other third 
parties to follow courses of the DSM values training program.  
The DSM values training program covers the three dimensions of People, Planet and Profit . An overview of  the courses and 
the changes in 20 21 is listed  below , as well as a number of important implementation measures.  
Corporate governance and risk management – DSM Code of Business Conduct  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  133 People  
The Life Saving Rules  specify the 12 most important rules that must be followed by all our employees to prevent incidents. 
The Respectful Behavior e-learning  emphasizes the importance of inclusion and diversity, and promotes respectful 
behavior as well as active bystander behavior . It is meant  to foster effective employee relations, communications, and 
non-discriminatory practices , and to prevent inappropriate behavior , including sexual harassment . 
The DSM Binding Corporate Rules for Data Privacy  prescribe mandatory Data Privacy  training for employees who regularly 
work with personal data  from employees and business partners. This is provided by the General Data Protection 
Regulation (GDPR) overview e -learning, which is rolled out to a large target audience including all employees working in 
the functions People & Organization, Marketing & Sales and Purchasing . In addition to this, concise e -learnings are in 
place to train all our employees on the consequences of the GDPR and the importance of prompt data breach notification . 
Planet  
The Basic Course Responsible Care  addresses the elements of the Responsible Care Program : Safety, Heal th, and 
Environment; Product stewardship; Security; and Sustainability.  
Profit  
The e-learning course Global Competition Law Principles and Practices  addresses the main principles of anti -trust 
legislation . Relevant e mployees annually confirm their complian ce with the rules via a Competition Law Compliance 
Statement. In this statement, they confirm that they are not aware of any violation of competition laws by DSM. For a 
smaller group of employees , mandatory Competition Law classroom trainings on specific topics are organized. Alleged 
breaches , if any, are reported to, and discussed with, Group Legal Affairs. In 20 21, no breaches were reported.  
The course for Global Trade Controls  (available in Engl ish) explains the most important aspects of international trade 
legislation. Compliance with trade controls is embedded in our systems and processes. Company master data is screened 
to check customers and suppliers against embargoes and lists of sanctioned  parties.  
The Anti-Bribery & Corruption  (ABC) e -learning provides training on the most important features of bribery and corrupt 
behavior. In addition, the DSM ABC Policy and Compliance Manual (available in English and Chinese) is shared with 
selected empl oyees in commercial and business roles, who must also follow ABC classroom training (integrated into the 
Competition Law classroom program ). 
The DSM Security  e-learning covers our seven Key Security Behaviors. To complete this e -learning, employees are req uired 
to read and sign off on the DSM Code of Conduct for Information Security. The Cyber Fraud Awareness  e-learning is an 
additional training to increase awareness among all employees regarding prevalent types of cybercrime. Furthermore, 
global as well as  targeted phishing tests are regularly carried out to ensure that our people stay alert.  
We also have rules to prevent misuse of inside information  on the holding of or trading in DSM financial instruments, such 
as shares and other securities, and where ap plicable the holding of or trading in financial instruments of other companies. 
These rules apply to all relevant employees, including the Executive Committee, the Managing Board, and the Supervisory 
Board.  
Value chain  
The business principles most relevan t to our supply chain are brought together in the Supplier Code of Conduct  and are 
also structured along the three dimensions of People, Planet and Profit. The Supplier Code of Conduct, available on the 
company website , is signed off by suppliers in framework contracts, confirming their commitment to sustainability, among 
other things.  
For our distributor and agent framework contracts, the  Anti-Bribery & Corruption  Policy  is translated into terms and 
conditions to ensure ethical business conduct when these parties act on behalf of DSM or deal with DSM products further 
down the value chain.  Corporate governance and risk management – DSM Code of Business Conduct  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  134 Consequence management  
We apply zero -tolerance consequence management to violations of the  Code. Under our whistleblower procedure  (DSM 
Alert), most (potential) violations are reported to and dealt with by local line management. Where this is not considered 
appropriate, complaints can directly be made to the DSM Alert Officer . In both cases, consequence management practices 
(such as  official warning, temporary suspension, dismissal) are in place for substantiated violations to support compliance 
with the Code. The DSM Alert Officer reports to the Managing Board and also reports independently to the Audit 
Committee of the Supervisory Board twice a year. Any individual not employed by DSM who might wish to voice a concern 
regarding violations of the Code may also contact the DSM Alert Officer via the company website . 
In 20 21, 23 Alert cases  (reports of potential violations of the Code) were received by the DSM Alert Officer, three of which 
were reported by an external party. This is at a level comparable with previous years. Four of these were p otential bribery 
and corruption cases. After investigation, one of these four Alert case s was substantiated and consequence management 
was applied.  
The table  below  gives an overview of all reported substantiated violations of the Code  (including Alert case s), with a 
breakdown by the People, Planet and Profit dimension s and region. Proven violations result in dismissal or other forms of 
consequence management. In line with this policy, 45 employees were dismissed in 20 21 because of breaches of the Code, 
legal or local company regulations. In addition,  89 employees received another form of consequence management. Over 
the years, the number of violations  has remained about the same . In 2021, a slight increase in the reporting of dismissal 
cases and a slight dec rease in other kinds of consequence management cases  was seen.  
People  
Most of the cases in the People dimension  relate to violations of the Life Saving Rules. Inappropriate or disrespectful 
behavior that does not contribute to a psychologically safe and healthy working environment (discrimination, sexual and 
other kinds of harassment) is also reported in this dimension. Health and safety are priorities for the company and 
incident -reporting channels are well known.  
Planet  
There were 6 violations of the Code reported in the Planet dimension  in 20 21. All these cases concerned a failure to strictly 
observe our procedures . 
Profit  
Most of the cases in the Profit dimension  relate to fraud and conflict of interest  Corporate governance and risk management – DSM Code of Business Conduct  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  135 Implementation of the DSM v alues training program  
2021 2020 
% of targeted employees trained  
General  
Code of Business Conduct  97% 95% 
People  
Life Saving Rules  99% 98% 
Respectful Behavior  98% 96% 
GDPR overview  99% 95% 
Planet  
Basic Course Responsible Care  99% 97% 
Profit  
Global Trade Controls  98% 95% 
Anti-Bribery & Corruption  98% 94% 
Security  96% 96% 
Cyber Fraud Awareness  98% 98% 
. 
DSM Annual Competition Law Statement  
% of people having signed the statement  100%  100%  
Violations of the Code  
2021 2020 
Number of dismissals / other consequence management  45 / 91  37 / 121  
Triple P breakdown  
People  30 / 73  29 / 102  
Planet  0 / 6  0 / 5  
Profit  15 / 12  8 / 14  
Regional breakdown  
Europe & Africa  12 / 37  13 / 52  
Americas  26 / 42  20 / 55  
Asia–Pacific  7 / 12  4 / 14  
TOTAL  136 158 
Alert cases (whistleblower procedure)  
2021 2020 
Number substantiated / not substantiated / under investigation  7 /15 / 1  9 / 9 /4¹  
Triple P breakdown  
People  6 / 11 / 1  7 / 7 / 2  
Planet  0 / 0 / 0  1 / 0 / 0 
Profit  1 / 4 / 0  1 / 2 / 2  
Regional breakdown  
Europe & Africa  1 / 4 / 0  1 / 3 / 2  
Americas  4 / 9 / 1  5 / 3 / 0  
Asia–Pacific  2 / 2 / 0  3 / 3 / 2  
TOTAL  23 22 
1 The four Alert cases 'under investigation' in 2020 were resolved in 2021: two were substantiated, two were not substantiated.  Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  136 Risk management  
DSM risk management framework  
A well -embedded risk management framework  and accompanying organization are in place. Th e framework is based on 
COSO Enterprise Risk Management  and this section  is structured accordingly (see DSM Risk Management Cycle below ). For 
each of the five COSO comp onents  (dark blue boxes) the implementation within DSM (light blue boxes) is explained, 
starting with Governance & Culture (in a clockwise direction).  
Governance and culture  
Risk management responsibilities  
The Managing Board  is accountable for the management of all risks associated with our company ’s strategy and business 
objectives . To this end  an appropriate risk management system  is in place.  
It is the responsibility of the Business Groups, support functions, functional excellence departments and regions within 
DSM (the units) to set up, operate, maintain and monitor an appropriate risk management system within their area of 
responsibility.  
We apply elements of the  Three Lines Model to manage risks effectively.  
First line:  the responsibility for identifying , assessing  and managing risks , including control  execution , lies with the 
individual units . 
Second line:  Group Risk Management  (GRM) designs, implements and maintains the overall risk management framework 
for the company. GRM also supports the first line in risk identification , assessment  and management by designing and  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  137 Corporate Governance and risk managemen t – Risk management 
developing standards, systems and tools. Within GRM there is an independent department testing the effectiveness of the 
Internal Control Framework. 
Besides GRM, there are also other departments acting as a second line, for instance, DSM Operations & Responsible Care 
covering Manufacturing, Supply Chain, SHE a nd Security. 
Third line: Corporate Operational Audit (COA) conducts independent operational audits of all units on behalf of the 
Managing Board. 
GRM and COA report directly to the CFO/Co-CEO, and COA has direct access to the COO/ Co-CEO as well as to the Audit 
Committee of the Supervisory Board.  
Code of Business Conduct 
The Code of Business Conduct comprises our purpose, our culture, and our business principles, which form the basis for 
risk management. Our culture is directly related to our purpose of creating brighter lives for all. All our employees receive 
regular training on the Code of Business Conduct and on detailed aspects of relevant business principles. 
Strategy and objective-setting 
The Managing Board supported by the Executive Committee establish es the company strategy and business objectives. 
Risk appetite 
The risk appetite defines the level of risk the company is prepared to take in the different risk categories, being strategic, 
operational, financial, compliance, a nd reputational risks. The risk appetite supports priority-setting  in risk responses. The 
Executive Committee decides on the risk appetite, which is reviewed annually. In 2021, our risk appetite was updated. The 
category of reputational risks was added and the criteria to rate the risk appetite were changed in order to give better 
guidance to the units for decision making (see figure below). 
DSM’s risk appetite 
Corporate Requirements  
The Corporate Requirements  are our internal rules and regulations, which are defined and maintained by the support 
functions and GRM. In line with the Code of Business Conduct and the risk appetite, the Corporate Requirements provide:  
-Risk-based guidance  for managing common business and process risks ( ‘common controls for common risks ’)
-Standards and practices  to increase the efficiency of our main business processes and functions
The Corporate Requirements are mandatory for all units, and management is responsible to implement these as and when 
applicable . 
Corporate Governance and risk management – Risk management  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  138 Performance  
Risk management  is designed to create and preserv e value . Important elements are identifying, assessing  and responding 
to risks that may impact the achievement of our company strategy and business objectives  and the execution of control 
activities . This part of the risk management framework focuses on practices that support the organization in making 
decisi ons. 
Risk identification, assessments and response  
Risk assessments  are performed  at various levels in the organization. We take a standard but flexible approach to risk 
assessments:  
-Risk assessment planning
-Preparation
-Risk identification and clustering
-Risk rating
-Evaluation and risk response
Both short -term risks (up to and including three years) and emerging risks (3 –30 years) in the risk categories strategic, 
operational, financial , compliance , and reputational  are the focus of ou r risk assessments. A Risk Assessment Manual  and 
training is available  to give guidance and continuously improve the effectiveness of our risk assessment process . 
Corporate Risk Assessment  
We periodically conduct a Corporate Risk Assessment  (CRA), which is  the responsibility of the M anaging Board. As part of 
this assessment, the E xecutive Committee  reviews and agrees on the short -term top risks as well as emerging risks. The 
Executive Committee  also agrees on how to mitigate and monitor these.  
Unit Risk Ass essments  
The DSM units conduct various types of risk assessments:  
-Business Risk Assessments  focus on risks that could jeopardize the attainment of our strategic goals and
business objectives
-Process Risk Assessments  are intended to make our processes more robust and fraud -proof
-Project Risk Assessments focus on specific projects and are updated throughout project execution to secure
successful delivery of project objectives and value creation for the company
In addition to the above, specific risk assessments  may be performed for areas such as Safety, Health, Environment, 
Climate  and (Cyber) security.  
Most risk assessments are carried out by cross -functional teams . These teams include experienced facilitators as well as 
experts , who can challenge ass umptions in order to help improve the quality of these risk assessments.  
Control activities  
Control activities are integrated in our business processes , and are executed by the first line . They are preventive or 
detective  and may encompass a range of manua l and (semi -)automated controls such as policies, procedures, 
authorizations, verifications and business performance reviews. We apply a standard approach for user access 
management , including privileged users, as well as Segregation of Duties  (SoD) manage ment. These controls also help us 
to avoid fraud and reputational damage , and support the  Statements of the Managing Board . 
The Internal Control Framework  (ICF) aims to ensure  reliable  financial reporting , mitigate fraud risks and safeguard our 
assets . It defines the standard set of key controls  that must  be performed by the first line. The internal control department 
within GRM owns the ICF.  Corporate Governance and risk management – Risk management  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  139 Review and revision  
Internal Control review  
The testing of the effectiveness  of the key controls as included in our Internal Control Framework (ICF) is performed by the 
Internal Control department within GRM. This is one of the pillars of our  House of Control  supporting the Statements of the 
Managing Board.  
COA audits  
COA, as the third line, conducts independent operational audits  based on the mandatory guidance of ‘The Institute of 
Internal Auditors’ to provide additional assurance  to the M anaging Board that signif icant risks are being managed and 
controlled effectively, efficiently and sustainably . Some of these audits are unannounced. The scope and frequency of COA 
audits is set according to the ranking of the auditable units in terms of the magnitude of risk, based on a number of 
defined characteristics. This program is agreed by the E xecutive Committee  and the Audit Committee of the Supervisory 
Board.  
Enhancement of the risk management system  
During 20 21, the following main improvements  were  made to our risk management framework : 
-Group Risk Management was extended with the expertise areas Information Security Risk Management  and
Sustainability Risk Management
-Our Code of Business Conduct was extended with the business principles Quality  and Social media , and the
corresponding training has been updated accordingly
-Our Corporate Requirements regarding privacy and personal data processing were updated
-The approach for determining the risk appetite was updated. The category of reputational risks was added and
the criteria to rate the risk appetite have been changed in order to give better guidance to the units for decision
making
-The risk assessment process was improved, addressing both internal and external risk factors in a more
structured way
-The roles, responsibilities  and processes to manage S egregation of Duties  (SoD) conflicts  were strengthened ,
supported by new tooling
-The automation level of internal controls was increased, improving the efficiency and effectiveness of control
execution an d testing
Information , communication  and reporting  
Communication channels  
We strive for an open communication culture  and have various channels for communicating risk information  both 
internally and externally. These channels enable our organization to provide relevant information for decision -making . Corporate Governance and risk management – Risk management  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  140 Risk management is an intrinsic part of doing business, so  normal business discussions regularly address this topic . In 
addition,  to ensure that specific risks receive  sufficient attention , we have installed the following consultation and 
communication structures : 
-Global Fraud Committee
-Global Issue Committee
-Cybersecurity Governance Board
-Ethic s Board  for P eople Data
-Human Rights Steering Committee
-Privacy Council
-Alert Committee
-Disclosure Committee
-Values Training Review Team
-Value Assurance Reviews
-Risk Management Committees in the various  units
-Dedicated discussions with the E xecutive Committee  on the Corporate Risk Assessment and the outcome of the
Letter of Representation  process
Letter of Representation 
The Letter of Representation (LoR) is a biannual process whereby DSM ’s units provide a comprehensive overview of 
incidents and risks to the Managing Board. The units report their identified short-term and emerging risks  according to five 
categories: strategic, operational, financial, compliance, and reputational. The LoR also documents the mitigation actions 
defined in respect of these risks. A formal sign-off by each unit director is required. The output of the LoR process is 
discussed in the Executive Committee as well as the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board. The material incidents are 
reported in the sectio n What still went wrong in 2021 . 
Top and emerging risks 
The output of the Corporate Risk Assessment process — being top risks and emerging risks — is discussed in the Audit 
Committee of the Supervisory Board and reported below. 
Our risk profile 
The risk management activities as performed by the first line as well as the reviews/audits conducted by the second and 
third line in 2021 did not indicate any material failings in the design a nd effectiveness of our risk management and 
internal control system. This is the basis for the Statements of the Managing Board and for the risk disclosures below.  
Top risks and related mitigatin g actions 
Below, the five  most important risks  are liste d that might prevent us from achieving the targets defined i n our strategy, 
along with the mitigating actions we are taking to further reduce our exposure. These risks are labeled as top risks as the 
exposure on DSM ’s EBITDA is an indicative €30 million or more, or because they have a major non-financial impact such as 
on reputation. 
Market environment 
There is a risk that we may not meet our strategic targets in the event of not being able to respo nd fast enough to the 
volatile economic environment or to increasing competition, especially from low-cost/margin players.  
To address this risk, several improvement projects were implemented in 2020 to create a more agile organization. In 2021, 
macro-economic conditions continued to be challenging, with high logistic costs, as well as increasing energy prices in 
Europe . Despite these headwinds, we continued to show resilience, serving our customers a nd delivering solid financial 
results. Corporate Governance and risk management – Risk management  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  141 Nevertheless, with increasing  inflation  and uncertain market developments there is a risk that sales volumes and margins 
could be  negatively impacted.  
Further mitigations : To distinguish ourselves from our competitors, w e continue to create value for our customers through  
innovative products an d services. In addition, in 2021 we revised the organizational structure of DSM, creating t hree 
Business Groups more closely aligned with the end markets we serve . We a lso adjusted  the operating model for science 
and innovation  to bring innovation closer t o the Business Groups , and the set-up of all  enabling functions ha s been 
revisited  to better support business priorities . 
Talents  
There is a risk that we might not be able to attract, retain and develop the talents required to transform our company and 
deliver on our strategy. To enable continued strong performance, our P&O strategy has been  fully aligned with our 
business priorities, and it is centered around our Culture Compass . It has four focus areas , addressing organization, 
people, workplace, and leadership and it is supported by modern, flexible rewards.  
We want to provide an environment where everyone can feel safe, valued and included and where everyone can 
contribute. Our Inclusion & Diversity st rategy therefore consists of initiatives to diversify our current and future talent 
pools. And, as an engaged workforce is essential, we increased our efforts to connect with our employees in different ways 
throughout the pandemic. We monitor employee enga gement and well -being through different surveys.   
Further mitigations : A new data platform will provide new people and organization insights  that will serve as a base for 
future decision -making.  
Purpose -driven g rowth  
As we mov e further  into new business areas – such as  gut health, precision & personalization - there is increased 
uncertainty around  time-to-market and peak sales of our innovation projects, impacting our organic growth.  
Several strategic projects pr ogressed well in 2021, such as the launch of the decision -making tools VeraxTM and SustellTM, 
the regulatory approval for Bovaer ®, our methane inhibitor solution, the launch of Hologram Sciences Inc., the 
introduction of a fast -acting vitamin D form ampli-D®, the expansion of the portfolio of Market -Ready Solutions, the 
capacity expansion and growing market reach for Veramaris®, our algal -based omega -3, the construction of a production 
facility for CanolaPRO ®, a rapeseed protein isolate, and the development  of the market for EVERSWEETTM, our fermentative 
Stevia sweetener. Despite the progress that has been made so far and having processes in place to manage and monitor 
further progress of innovation projects, the contribution to organic sales growth remains a risk.   
Further mitigations : We are aligning our science and innovation organization with our new end -market organization. We 
will also continue to increase our investments in the digital transformation of our science and innovation capabilities such 
as artificial intelligence  (AI), big data, deep learning and modelling as well as extending lab automation.    
Cyber threats  
In an increasing ly digital world, DSM is subject to cybersecurity attacks which, if successful, could lead to a loss of 
intellectual property , discontinuity of operations, or otherwise have a negative impact on the company.  
To address this risk, we continued throughout 20 21 to implement our multi -year cybersecurity programs that cover the 
domains of information technology, operations technology, and R&D laboratory systems. We have updated our maturity 
assessment to provide us with insights for further improvements.  
Since the ‘human firewall’ remains critically important, we continue d to raise employee awareness via e -learnings, 
awareness campaigns and regular phishing tests, either on a global scale or for specific target groups.  
Despite our progress in this area, the risk remains due to a growing number of digital initiatives driven by our strategy, and 
increasing external cyber threats.   Corporate Governance and risk management – Risk management  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  142 Further mitigations : Using as input  the results from the maturity assessment , the Cyber Security Governance Board has 
defined the One DSM Cyber Security Program. Through  this program we are implement ing an overarching framework to 
manage cybersecurity risks on a global level, covering the domains of information technology , operations technology , and 
R&D laboratory sys tems .  
Product quality  
A food safety incident may arise due to (alleged) acts or omissions of DSM, our suppliers or other value chain partners and 
may have severe consequences for the health of consumers and negative financial and reputational impact for D SM. To 
reduce this risk, four initiatives were deployed over the last couple of years to complement our quality management 
systems: 1) growing as a learning organization, 2) high quality risk assessments, 3) improving standards, and 4) mindset 
and behavior . While the quality of our products i s a constant focus, the risk of a quality incident remains.  
With the shift to new markets and new product offerings, the importance of product quality increases further, whereas the 
risk of quality defects cannot be ful ly excluded.  
Further mitigations : In addition to already high standards and corporate requirements with regards to quality , we are 
launching a program across our operations to further strengthen our quality procedures , building on our experiences from 
putting safety as first priority.  
Emerging risks  
The following emerging risks  have been identified by the Executive Committee. 
Climate physical risks  
We may not be able to respond fast enough to the physical impacts of climate change on our operations, value chains and 
end-markets . 
Climate transition risks  
We may not be able to respond fast enough to the changes related to the transition to a net -zero world and the impact 
these will have on our operations, val ue chain and end -markets  
Risk of increasing polarization in the world  
This could lead to new legislation and new regulations that have a negative impact for our company (such as increasing 
taxation, trade barriers, sanctions and embargoes, and labor costs) . 
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG)  reporting risk  
With ESG performance becoming more important and with increasing disclosure requirements, we might not be able to 
address all of these developments timely . 
Climate -related risks  
In 2020 , we performed a desk study on physical risks for our sites  that could lead to material financial impact in case of a 
prolonged shutdown . We mapped five emerging hazards (flooding, cyclones, wildfire, extreme heat, and water scarcity) 
against three I PCC climate temperature scenarios (RCP 2.6, RCP 4.5, and RCP 8.5) , using  three  different time horizons 
(present, 2030, and 2040/2050).  These scenarios were supplemented with additional data.  
In 2021, the results from that study were validated with the se sites in order to understand our risk exposure and resilience 
taking into account local circumstances and existing mitigations. The validations demonstrated that we already have 
mitigations in place for  several of the risks identified through the desk study. We hav e concluded that water scarcity is the 
most material risk and needs to be actively monitored and managed. All sites with an increased water risk profile were 
already in scope of our water stewardship program.  Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  143 Corporate Governance and risk managemen t – Risk management 
In parallel, we piloted a transition risk assessment approach in two different businesses , one from the Materials cluster 
and one from the Nutrition cluster, covering more than a third of total sales. Using external data sources, such as 
International Energy Agency - Worl d Energy Outlook, World Bank, and sector-specific sources such as the FAIRR initiative , 
we built forward-looking scenarios aligned with the IPCC temperature models and time horizons used for the physical risk 
assessments. Scenarios are evolving depending on external data availability and by adding parameters relevant for the 
businesses under review. Through the assessments both risks a nd opportunities are captured. The scope is not limited to 
our own operations but includes the full value chain impact on our business. 
At this moment, no material short-term climate risks have been identified through specific climate risk assessments or 
regular risk assessments. Physical and transition risks are seen as emerging, with transition risks still expected to 
materialize this decade. Various climate-related opportunities are foresee n to have a meaningful contribution as well, 
such as methane reducing ruminant solution Bovaer® . The material risks identified through the climate risk assessments 
were integrated a nd are manage d as part of our regular risk management processes. 
We will continue to expand and update our physical risk assessments for our own operations as well as the rest of our 
value chains. 
With the help of external parties, we are also exploring different approaches to assess vulnerabilities caused by climate 
change a nd increase our resilience. This will address both our own sites a nd our end-markets. Furthermore, we will roll 
out the transition risk assessments in the remaining businesses and continue to update our scenarios to reflect latest 
external insights. 
COVID-19 related risks 
In 2021, we continued to respo nd swiftly to the impacts of the pandemic . We ensured that people were safe and continued 
to serve our customers. Our financial performance was solid in 2021 a nd COVID-19 has demonstrated the relevance of our 
strategic focus on Health, Nutrition & Bioscience. Hence, COVID- 19 was not considered a to p risk, but the effects of the 
pandemic have been factored into the assessment of all other risks. This was consistent with the outcome of the 
Materiality matrix assessment. 
In 2021, we focused on keeping our employees engaged, as working remotely was the standard for most of our office 
workers during a significant part of the year. For those workers whose activities had to be carried out within an operational 
setting, measures were put in place to ensure that these working environments were COVID- 19-secure. Special attention 
was paid to mental wellness and increasing resilience, see People . 
Other important risks 
There are also more generic business risks, such as business continuity, sourcing, intellectual property, tax, and business 
process risks. Our risk management system is set up to adequately monitor and respo nd to these risks. Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  144 What still went wrong in 20 21 
The year 202 1 presented us with many challenges as well as  opportunities. The  ongoing  effects of the COVID -19 pandemic  
continued to  place additional and unexpected demands upon our company  and our people  worldwide. At the same time, 
this was a pivotal year in DSM’s transformation with the sale of our Resins & Functional Materials business and associated 
businesses, the integration of three acquired companies, and the establishment of three new Business Groups as we fully 
focus on becoming a Health, Nutrition & Bioscience company.  
Despite the challenging circumstances , we applied our high standards  with our usual rigor . Possible breaches of t he DSM 
Code of Business Conduct were investigated and, if any form of infringement was found to have occurred, consequence 
management was applied (see DSM Code of Business Conduct  for further information). Here we share the most significant 
incidents  of 20 21 across all three dimensions of People, Planet and Profit  and not relating solely to breaches of the DSM 
Code of Business Conduct . This overview includes incidents with a financial impact as well as incidents regarding health, 
safety, environment, security and fraud , in all of which a reas we have a low risk appetite . 
In line with our reporting policy, this overview includes not only incidents but also some serious near -misses . Near -misses 
are cases that did not result in injury, illness or serious damage but which could have done so. Even when a crisis is 
averted, it i s our responsibility to learn from it and do better in future . We have a process in place to collect information 
about incidents and serious near -misses as presented in this overview, using various sources  including our internal Letter 
of Representation, and  our reporting system for SHE and Security incidents . 
Preventing incidents  from reoccurring requires us to understand each incident  to the best of our ability. When an incident  
occurs, our first priority  is to take care of any injuries  and repair any damage . We investigate every recordable incident 
using a fixed root cause analysis  method  and we trigger global improvement cycles, see Safety, health & well -being . We 
adjust requirements and processes and apply consequence management as needed.   
People  
Incidents involving falls   
At DSM Nutritional Products in Lalden (Switzerland), an operator was stretc hing in the attempt to close a valve. He lost 
balance , falling to the ground and dislocat ing his shoulder.  
At DSM ’s joint venture  Yimante  in Jingzhou (Hubei Province, China) , an employee fell from height in a washing tower and 
suffered multiple rib fractures.  
Incidents during process interruptions and maintenance wo rk 
At DSM Nutritional Products in Jiangshan (Jiangsu Province, China), an employee carrying out maintenance work on a 
vacuum pump lost the tip of a finger when the vacuum pump piston unexpectedly moved . 
At DSM Nutritional Products in Jiangshan (Jiangsu Pro vince, China), an employee  conducting maintenance work was hit by  
the end cover of an air compressor which was still under pressure and broke his thigh.   
At DSM Nutritional Products in Belvidere (New Jersey, USA), an employee lost the tip of a finger durin g the reinstallation of 
a piece of equipment.  
At DSM Food Specialties in Yantai (Shandong Province, China), an employee lost a finger and the tip of another  finger while 
he was trying to remove a blockage in a feeding pipeline.  
At DSM Engineering Materials in Emmen (Netherlands),  an employee injured  the tip of a finger while removing polymer 
wires from the cutter of an extruder.   
At DSM Nutritional Products i n El Salto (Mexico), an operator suffered a head injury that required stitches when he was hit 
by a tool while starting up a blender. From the  incident investigation we learned that the DSM safety rules and controls What still went wrong in 2021  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  145 had been  violated multiple times. C onseq uence management  was applied, and organizational and procedural changes  
were implemented . 
Incidents due to flash fires / explosions  
At DSM Nutritional Products in Ambernath (India), a flash fire occurred at the dosing point where two employees were 
manuall y filling a reactor. The employees sustained first -degree burns to their hands and head s. 
At DSM Nutritional Products in Mairinque (Brazil), a flash fire  occurred during a normal restart procedure  after a power 
shutdown . An employee sustained  first- and se cond -degree burns to the upper body and there was material damage to 
the equipment.  
At DSM ’s joint venture  Yimante  in Jingzhou (Hubei province, China) , an employee sustained second -degree burns to his 
face when a flash fire occurred while  he was cleaning a tank.  
At DSM Nutritional Products in Sisseln (Switzerland), a small fire occurred in a formulation unit . causing the suspension of 
a production line for a few weeks.  There were no personal injuries.  
At DSM Nutritional Products in Kingstree (Sout h Carolina, USA), a process interruption caused plugging in a feed line. 
During the restart of the process an internal ignition led to an explosion. There were no personal injuries.  
At DSM’s joint venture Yimante in Jingzhou (Hubei province, China), an imp losion damaged a product storage tank causing 
a loss of production of multiple days.  There were no personal injuries.  
At DSM Nutritional Products in Esbjerg (Denmark), a runaway reaction occurred when a bacteria -containing product stream 
was being steriliz ed, damaging two valves in the production installation. There were no personal injuries.  
Other health and safety incidents  
At DSM ’s joint venture Olatein in Dieppe  (France ), a contractor working at height dropped a wooden board that fell six 
meters , hitting another contractor’s foot. The contractor suffered a fracture of his big toe.  
At DSM Food Specialties in Delft (Netherlands), two employees entered a production room  filled with a mist. One 
experienced  irritation to the eyes and the other irritation to the cheek.   
At DSM Food Specialties in Yantai (Shandong Province, China), an employee fractured a toe when a poorly loaded pallet he 
was moving tilted,  and his foot got stuck between the pallet  and the fl oor. 
At DSM Nutritional Products in Schenectady (New York, USA), an employee reported discomfort in  his left knee after 
repetitively moving 50 kg drums onto a pallet. He was reassigned to physically less-demanding  tasks.  
At DSM Food Specialties in Wuxi (Ji angsu Province, China),  a pallet slipped off a truck to the ground as unloading 
commenced, leading to a severe blow to the waist area of the truck driver, who suffered multiple fractured vertebrae.  
At DSM Nutritional Products in S ão Paulo (Brazil), an emp loyee was hit by a truck while making a business trip in a 
company car . 
Incidents involving personal data  
Unauthorized persons access ed the Office365 email account of an employee of one of our strategic IT partners . After a day, 
the employee noticed unusual behavior in the email account and alerted the DSM IT Security team. In the timeframe 
between the attack and its detection, a phis hing mail was sent to a number of employees from the corrupted email 
account . Corrective and mitigating measures were i mmediately taken that stopped the attack the same day. No similar 
instances have been noticed since.  The incident  was reported  to the Dutch Data Protection Authority . What still went wrong in 2021  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  146 Security incidents  
While t ransporting for  DSM Food Specialties in Mexico, a truck carryin g DSM products was hijacked by armed thieves. The 
driver was threatened with firearms and required  to hand over the vehicle and its consignment . The driver was released 
unharmed after the assault.   
Planet  
There were no serious reportable Planet incidents t his year.  
Profit  
At DSM Food Specialties in Delft (Netherlands), the mechanical breakdown of a centrifuge led to a loss of production of 
more than a week . 
At DSM Engineering Materials , two raw material suppliers declared force majeure, leading to a loss of production of 
multiple days  at DSM .  
At DSM Food Specialties in Delft (Netherlands), parts of equipment were incorrectly replaced d uring a maintenance stop , 
leading to a delay in restarting the p roduction.  
At Group Business Services (Latin America) , irregularities in the purchasing process were detected, pointing to  a fraud case 
in which multiple fraudsters were involved.  Relevant processes and controls were reviewed and updated.  
At DSM Nutritional Products in Freeport (Texas, USA), production needed to be stopped as a result of exceptionally low 
temperatures in February . The f reezing of equipment, a power outage and material damage  caused a loss of production of 
several days.  
At DSM N utritional Products in North America, a supplier delivered raw material which affected product quality  and 
necessitated a product  replacement in the case of  one customer.  
At DSM Nutritional Products, two suppliers of the same raw material declared force majeure, impacting the supply to 
multiple DSM sites, leading to a loss of margin.  
Before the completion  of the divestment of DSM Resins & Functional Materials in the first quarter of 2021, two suppliers 
declared force majeure, leading to a loss of producti on at multiple DSM sites.  Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  147 Supervisory Board and Managing Board Royal DSM  
Supervisory Board  
Thomas Leysen (1960, m) , Chair  
First appointed: 2020. End of current term: 2024. 
Nationality: Belgian. Nomination Committee ( Chair ), 
Remuneration Committee (member). Last position held: 
CEO of Umicore; Supervisory directorships/other 
positions: Chair of the Board of Umicore; Chair of the 
Board of Mediahuis; Chair of the Belgian Corporate 
Governance Commission; Chair of the King Baudouin  
Foundation (until 31  December 2021).John Ramsay (1957, m) , Deputy Chair  
First appointed: 2017. End of current term: 2025. 
Nationality: British. Audit Committee (Chair), 
Remuneration Committee (member). Last position held: 
Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and interim CEO of 
Syngenta AG. Supervisory directorships/other positions: 
Non-executive director of RHI Magnesita N .V., non -
executive director of Croda International  PLC.
Eileen Kennedy (1947, f)  
First appointed: 2012. End of current term: 202 2. 
Nationality: American. Sustainability Committee (Chair), 
Nomination Committee (member). Position: Professor of 
Nutrition , Friedman School of Nutrition Science and 
Policy at Tufts University in Boston (USA); Supervisory 
directorships/other positions: Memb er, Board of 
Directors,  Sight and Life Foundation.Carla Mahieu (19 59, f) 
First appointed: 202 1. End of current term: 202 5. 
Nationality: Dutch . Remuneration  Committee (Chair). 
Last p osition  held: Global Head of Human Resources 
and Member of the Management Board of Aegon N.V. ; 
Supervisory directorships/other positions: Non-
executive member of the Board of VodafoneZiggo Group 
B.V. Netherlands; non -executive member of the Board of 
Arcadis; non -executive member of Stichting Continu ïteit
PostNL.
Erica Mann (1958, f)  
First appointed: 2019. End of current term: 2023. 
Nationality: Australian. Sustainability Committee 
(member), Audit Committee (member). Last position 
held: Member of the Board of Management of the Bayer 
Group and Global President of Ba yer’s Consumer Health 
Division. Supervisory directorships/other positions: Non -
executive member of the Board of Perrigo; non -
executive member of the Board of Kellogg Company; 
non-executive member of the Board of Blackmores.Frits Dirk van Paasschen (1961 , m) 
First appointed: 2017. End of current term: 202 5. 
Nationality: Dutch and American. Remuneration  
Committee (member), Sustainability Committee 
(member). Last position held: CEO Starwood Hotels and 
Resorts. Supervisory directorships/other positions: Non-
executive Board member Williams Sonoma (USA); Board 
member Sonder; Board member Crown Proptech 
Acquisitions; Chair Board of Convene; Board member of 
CitizenM Hotels (NL); Board member JCrew group; 
Advisor to private equity firm TPG, The Red Sea Project,  
the Indian School of Hospitality; CEO practice at Russell 
Reynolds; CEO and Founder of The Disruptor's Feast 
Advisory.
Pradeep Pant (1953, m)  
First appointed: 2016. End of current term: 2024. 
Nationality: Singaporean. Audit Committee (member), 
Nomination Committee (member). Last position held: 
EVP and President APAC and EMEA of Mondelez 
International. Supervisory directorships/other positions: 
Honorary Council Member  of Food Industry Asia; non -
executive Director of Max India Ltd.,  MAX Life Insurance 
Co Ltd. (India), Antara Senior Living Ltd. (India)  and NIVA 
BUPA Health Insurance Co. Ltd. (India) ; Chair  of the 
Board of Blaine  and Clyde Investment s Pte Ltd. Asia 
Sustainable Foods ; President of Pant Consulting Pte Ltd.Corien Wortmann -Kool (1959, f)  
First appointed: 2021. End of current term: 2025. 
Nationality: Dutch. Audit Committee (member), 
Sustainability Committee (member). Position: Chair of 
the Board of ABP Pension Fund. Supervisory 
directorships/other positions: Vice -Chair of the 
Supervisory Board of Aegon N.V.; Chair of the Board of 
Save the Children (NL); Advisory Board Member of the 
Impact Economy Foundation; Member of the Capita l 
Markets Advisory Board of the Dutch Financial Markets 
Authority.
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021 148 Managing Board  
Geraldine Matchett (1972, f), Co-CEO 
Position: Co-CEO & CFO since February 2020; member of the Managing Board since August 2014 and 
CFO since December 2014. End of current term: 2022.  Nationality: British, French, Swiss. Supervisory 
directorships/other positions held: Non -executive Director of ABB; Board member of Catalyst Europe; 
Member of the HRH the Prince of Wales’ A4S (Accounting 4 Sustainability) CFO Leadership  Network ; 
Board member of FCLTGlobal ; Executive Committee Member of the World Business Council for 
Sustainable Development (WBCSD); Member of the Foundation Board of IMD Business School.   
e-mail: geraldine.matchett@dsm.com
Dimitri de Vreeze (1967, m), Co-CEO 
Position: Co-CEO & COO since February 2020; member of the Managing Board since September 2013. 
End of current term: 202 5. Nationality: Dutch. Supervisory directorships/other positions held: 
Chairman Supervisory Board DSM  Netherlands; Member Executive Committee and Board member of 
Cefic (European Chemical Industry Council) and Chair Sustainability Advisory Forum; Board member  
‘Fonds voor de topsport ’ (NOC*NSF; Dutch Olympic Committee Fund for top sport); member 
Supervisory Board Sanquin; Chairman  Young Captain Foundation ; Chair of the ALV United World 
College  Maastricht .  
e-mail: dimitri.vreeze -de@dsm.com
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  149 Statements of the Managing Board  
The Managing Board is responsible for the design and operation of the  company’s  internal risk management and control 
systems. In discharging this responsibility, the Managing Board has made a systematic assessment  of the effectiveness of 
the design and operation of the internal control and risk management systems.  
On the basis of this report and in accordance with best practice 1.4.3 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code of 
December 2016, and Article 5:2 5c of the Financial Supervision Act, the aforementioned assessment and the current state of 
affairs, to the best of its knowledge and belief, the Managing Board confirms that:  
-DSM’s  internal risk management and control systems provide reasonable assurance that financial reporting does
not contain any material inaccuracies
-There have been no material failings in the effectiveness of the internal risk management and control systems of
the company
-There are no material risks or uncertainties that could reasona bly be expected to have a material adverse effect
on the continuity of DSM ’s operations in the coming twelve months
-There is a reasonable expectation that DSM will be able to continue its operations and meet its liabilities for at
least twelve months, therefore it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial
reporting
It should be noted that the above does not imply that these systems and procedures provide absolute assurance as to the 
realization of operational an d strategic business objectives, or that they can prevent all misstatements, inaccuracies, 
errors, fraud and non -compliances with legislation, rules and regulations. Nor can they provide certainty that we will 
achieve our objectives.  
In view of all of the above, the Managing Board confirms that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, the financial 
statements give a true and fair view  of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company, and that 
the management report includes a  fair review of the position at the balance sheet date and the development and 
performance of the business during the financial year  2021, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that the company faces.  
Heerlen, 1 March 2022  
The Managing Board  
Geraldine Matchett, Co-CEO 
Dimitri de Vreeze, Co-CEO Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  150 Report by the Supervisory Board  
Introduction by the Chair  
Dear reader,  
The resilience that DSM had demonstrated during 2020 in the face of the COVID -19 pandemic was shown once more in 
2021. My colleagues and I on the Supervisory Board witnessed the company’s care for its employees, its commitment to its 
customers, and its determination to keep creating brighter lives for all . In the p rocess, DSM delivered another excellent 
operating result – a considerable achievement in a demanding and sometimes difficult operating environment.  
It is against this background that I would like to thank my predecessor Rob Routs, who first joined the Supe rvisory Board 
in April 2010 and was appointed Chair in May 2011. Rob retired as Chair and member of the Supervisory Board at the close 
of the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders on 6 May 2021.  Under his guidance, DSM continued its evolution into the 
purpose -led, performance -driven company it is today. We all owe a profound  debt of gratitude to Rob for his deep 
insights, wise counsel and unfailing collegiality over the course of 11 years of service. We wish him every success for the 
future.  
For my part, I  am proud to have the opportunity to follow in Rob’s footsteps as the company tackles some of the biggest 
challenges facing our world today. I would like to thank my colleagues on the Supervisory Board for their confidence in 
electing me as Chair, and I pl edge to serve DSM to the utmost of my abilities. Since joining the Supervisory Board in May 
2020, I have seen what a remarkable company DSM is – genuinely purpose -led and performance -driven in everything it 
does.  
Despite the challenges created by the conti nuing pandemic in 2021, it was a pleasure for me to work with my colleagues on 
the Supervisory Board, and of course also with the Co -CEOs and the Executive Committee, throughout the year. Our 
interactions are characterized by an open style which encourages  everyone to contribute their experience and expertise 
and, equally, allows everyone to raise challenges where these might be appropriate. I valued the regular interactions with 
our Co -CEOs Geraldine Matchett and Dimitri de Vreeze and also the direct and t ransparent interaction between the 
Supervisory Board and the Executive Committee.  
Most of our meetings were, of necessity, virtual, but it was possible for me and my new Supervisory Board colleagues Carla 
Mahieu and Corien Wortmann -Kool to arrange visits t o the Brightlands Campus in Geleen (Netherlands) as well as to the 
DSM site in Delft (Netherlands), during which we had the chance to visit the DSM Biotech Center.  
In October, t he Supervisory Board and Executive Committee also benefited from a site visit t o DSM Austria GmbH – 
founded in 2021 after the 2020 acquisition of Erber Group, including B iomin  and Romer Labs. We saw at first hand how the 
acquisition has further strengthened DSM’s position in mycotoxin risk management and as a leading provider of 
sustainable feed and animal health solutions. I t was an impressive experience,  revealing  a close congruence between the 
culture s of DSM and Erber. Interactions with our new colleagues were open and honest and it was good to see that the 
integration  was well on  track.   
In September, DSM announced its strategic decision to focus its resources and capabilities to address the urgent societal 
and environmental challenges linked to the way the world produces and consumes food. This led to the decision to 
simplify the  company’s  operating structure and reorgani ze its Health, Nutrition & Bioscience  activities into three Business 
Groups, each with clear opportunities to benefit the health of people , the health of the planet  and healthy livelihoods 
while supporting  our growth plans. At the same time, we confirmed  we had  started a review of strategic options for our 
Materials businesses.  Report by the Supervisory Board – Supervisor y Board Report  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  151 I am excited at the opportunities for our three new market -focused Business Groups – Food & Beverage ; Health, Nutrition 
& Care ; and Animal Nutrition & Health – which  commenced active operation with effect from 1 January 2022. Each Business 
Group will be closely  aligned with its respective customers and equipped to develop impactful , science -based , market -
ready innovation  at speed . I am also delighted that we took the bold step to define a range of specific and measurable 
Food System Commitments, along with accelerated sustainability targets. All these measures, which have the full support 
of the Supervisor y Board, will help DSM to continue to live out its mantra of ‘doing well by doing good.’  
As we look back on a year that brought challenges for so many people worldwide, I am pleased that our commitment to 
Safety, Health and Environment remained as strong a s ever, delivering positive results across our global operations.  I am 
glad to report that in 2021 our Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries improved to 0.2 2, versus  a target of <0.24. 
It only remains for me to thank our Co -CEOs , our Executive Committee  and my colleagues on the Supervisory Board  for 
their service  to DSM in 2021, our employees for all their hard work and commitment, and also the many stakeholders who 
continue to place their trust in our company . We can look back on 2021 with satisfaction ; and can look forward  to 2022 with 
a strengthened sense of purpose. I am excited at the opportunities for our three market -focused Business Groups.  
Thomas Leysen , Chair of the Supervisory Board  
Supervisory Board Report  
This Report provides further information on the way the Supervisory Board  performed its duties in 20 21. These include  
supervising the policy pursued by the Managing Board, the Managing Board ’s performance of its managerial duties, and 
the general course of affairs within our company and its businesses, as well as assisting the Managing Board with advice, 
either upon request or proactively. Finally, these duties also include assessing the Managing  Board ’s performance and 
ensuring that their remuneration is in line with that performance and that it provides the appropriate incentives. Since the 
inception of an Executive Committee, the Supervisory Board has also been responsible for ensuring that the  checks and 
balances that are part of the two -tier governance system are still taken into account, paying specific attention to the 
dynamics between the Managing Board and the Executive Committee.  
The responsibility of supervising the policy pursued by the  Managing Board includes evaluating the way the Managing 
Board implements DSM’s strategy  for long -term value creation and promotes a culture aimed at creating  value . In the 
performance of its duties, the Managing Board and Supervisory Board  act in accordance with the interests of the company 
and weigh up the interests of all stakeholders , in line with DSM’s  multi stakeholder approach. This is all described in the 
section s Strategy , People  and Corporate governance and risk management . 
Report by the Supervisory Board – Supervisory Board Report  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  152 Composition of the Supervisory Board  
The composition of DSM ’s Supervisory Boa rd is diverse  in gender, nationality, background, knowledge and experience. The 
Board comprises four men and four women. Two members are Dutch, one American, one Dutch -American, one British, one 
Singaporean , one Australian  and one Belgian . The Board ’s current members are Thomas Leysen  (Chair), John Ramsay 
(Deputy Chair), Eileen Kennedy , Carla Mahieu,  Erica Mann , Frits van Paasschen, Pradeep Pant  and Corien Wortmann -Kool. 
For detailed information on their backgrounds, see the company website  and Supervisory Board and Managing Board 
Royal DSM . 
Following best practice 2.1.10 of the Dutch Corporate G overnance Code , the Supervisory Board establishes that its members 
are able to act critically and independently  of one another, the Managing Board and any particular interests involved. To 
safeguard this, the Supervisory Board is composed in such a way tha t all its members are independent in the meaning of 
best practice 2.1.8 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code.  
The targeted profile  of the Supervisory Board is reflected in its regulations, which are published on the company  website  
under ‘Corporate Governance ’. The Supervisory Board has four committees  to cover key areas in greater detail: Audit, 
Nomination s (to the Supervisory Board and Managing Board), Remuneration (of the Supervisory Board and Managing 
Board) and Sustainability. Information on these committees is given elsewhere in this section . The charters of the 
committees are published on the  company  website  under ‘Corporate Governance ’. 
Relationship and stakeholder management  
In performing its duties, the Supervisory Board acts in accordance with the intere sts of the company and the business 
connected with it, taking into consideration the interests of the company ’s stakeholders . The Chair of the Supervisory 
Board is in regular close contact with the Co-CEOs, as is the Chair of the Audit Committee with the C FO. 
Furthermore, the Supervisory Board regularly interacts with members of the Executive Committee , who attend Supervisory 
Board meetings and  participate in  the yearly  site visit of the Supervisory Board.   
The Supervisory Board interacts with our employees  on various occasions and in various contexts. The Supervisory Board 
regularly receives information on relevant topics from senior leaders and experts in the company during committee 
meetings, full Supervis ory Board meetings,  annual site visits , and also as part of their ongoing professional educatio n. In 
September  2021,  we announced our strategic decision to focus our resources and capabilities to address the urgent 
societal and environmental challenges lin ked to the way the world produces and consumes food.  The Supervisory Board 
was involved early on in this strategic process to contribute to the decisions and engage with the various topics. In 
addition , the Supervisory Board was involved in discussions aro und merger & acquisition  (M&A) opportunities, such as the 
acquisition of First Choice Ingredients and the flavor and fragrance bio -based intermediates business of Amyris Inc., as 
well as large innovation projects  resulting in the development of products  such as Bovaer®, Veramaris®, EVERSWEET™  and 
CanolaP RO®. The Supervisory Board also performed a post -investment review of our second -generation bio -ethanol plant 
in Emmetsburg (Iowa, USA). During its annual site visit, the Supervisory Board actively takes the  opportunity to interact 
with employees at different levels, from the shop floor to senior leadership, thus collecting valuable information and 
insights from various sources across the company.  
Direct, one-to-one contact  between Supervisory Board members and Managing Board and Executive Committee members 
generally follows naturally from topics discussed in the meetings of the Supervisory Board. These discussions draw on the 
expertise of individual Supervisory Board members, whose advice is sought on a wide  range of specialist topics as 
required. Supervisory Board members also have direct contact with other employees in the course of the aforementioned 
site visits and specifically arranged meetings. The full Supervisory Board reviewed the company’s new Food System 
Commitments  together with members of the company’s Sustainability department, and Eileen Kennedy had further in -
depth discussions with the Senior Vice President Corporate & Nutrition Strategy . The Audit Committee discussed our 
efforts in the area of cybersecurity , and Pradeep Pant, who is based in Singapore and has extensive knowledge of and 
experience with Asian markets, continued to be in regular contact with our senior management in that regi on. Report by the Supervisory Board – Supervisory Board Report  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  153 In 202 1, due to the continued COVID -19 pandemic, most of the meetings  were held virtually  and face -to-face meetings  
could only be arranged on a few occasions . Examples of the meetings and visits that could take place include the 
introductory visits  of Thomas Leysen, Carla Mahieu and Corien Wortmann -Kool to the DSM site in Delft (Netherlands) , 
during which the DSM Biotech Center was visited ; their visit to the Brightlands Campus in Geleen (Netherlands ); and  the 
annual site visit  of the full Supervisory B oard, together with the Executive Committee, to DSM Austria Gm bH – founded in 
2021 after the acquisition of Erber Group, including B iomin  and Romer Labs.  Due to COVID -19-related travel restrictions, 
Erica Mann participated virtually during  this site visit  to Austria.  
The Supervisory Board takes an active interest in maintaining a good understanding of our stakeholders  and their 
positions on various topics related to the company ’s areas of business. This includes the perceptions of our shareholders . 
The Supervisory Board is informed of the position of other DSM stakeholders by the Managing Board. In addition, the 
Supervisory Board collects such information through its own network.  
DSM Supervisory Board: key data and attendance records  
Thomas 
Leysen (C)  John  
Ramsay (DC)  Eileen 
Kennedy  Carla  
Mahieu  Erica 
Mann  Frits van 
Paasschen  Pradeep 
Pant Corien 
Wortmann -
Kool 
Diversity  
Year of birth  1960 1957 1947 1959 1958 1961 1953 1959 
Gender  Male  Male  Female  Female  Female  Male  Male  Female  
Geography  Europe  Europe  North 
America  Europe  Oceania  Europe / 
North America  Asia Europe  
Tenure  
Initial appointment  2020 2017 2012 2021 2019 2017 2016 2021 
Latest reappointment  n.a. 2021 2020 n.a. n.a. 2021 2020 n.a.
End of current term  2024 2025 2022 2025 2023 2025 2024 2025 
Reappointment possible?  Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 
Attendance  
Committee memberships  NomCo (C) 
RemCo  AC (C)  
RemCo  SustCo  (C) 
NomCo  RemCo (C)  AC 
SustCo  RemCo  
SustCo  AC 
NomCo  AC 
SustCo  
Attendance of 
SB meetings1 100%  100%  100%  100%  90%2100%  100%  100%  
Attendance of Committee 
meetings  NomCo  
100%  
RemCo  
100%  AC 
100%  
RemCo 
100%  NomCo 
100%  
SustCo 
100%  RemCo  
100%  AC 
83%2
SustCo 
100%  RemCo  
100%  
SustCo 
100%  AC 
100%  
NomCo 
100%  AC 
100%  
SustCo  
100%  
1 ‘Attendance ’ refers to  the one physical Supervisory  Board  (SB) meeting and nine virtual meetings  held in 2021. In addition  to these 
meetings , there  were  also four virtual SB meetings in 2021  for which  the decision -making  had been  mandated  by the SB to the Chair of 
the Board  and the Chair  of the Audit  Committee,  who both participated in  these  calls.   
2 Erica Mann missed the S upervisory Board  call and Audit call in July due to oth er previously scheduled commitments . She gave advance 
input  in writing or via other members . Report by the Supervisory Board – Supervisory Board Report  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  154 DSM Supervisory Board: key competences  
Thomas 
Leysen  (C) John 
Ramsay  (DC) Eileen 
Kennedy  Carla 
Mahieu  Erica  
Mann  Frits van 
Paasschen  Pradeep 
Pant Corien 
Wortmann -
Kool 
Competences  
General Management  x x x x x x 
Finance/Accounting/Auditing  x x x 
Strategy  x x x x x x x x 
Risk x x x 
Marketing & Sales  x x x x 
Operations & Manufacturing  x x 
R&D/Innovation/Technology  x x 
Safety  x x 
Sustainability &  Environment  x x x x x 
Emerging Economies  x x x x 
People & Organization  x x x x 
IT/Digital  x x 
Governance/Compliance/Legal 
Affairsx x x x x x 
Public  Affairs  x x x x 
DSM’s businesses  x x x x 
Supervision and advice  
The Supervisory Board performs its duties of supervising and advising the Managing Board with respect both to recurring 
standard agenda items  for Supervisory Board meetings and to specific topics that become relevant at any given point in 
time.  
Besides  Safety, which is always the fi rst topic on the agenda of every Supervisory Board meeting, t he most prominent 
regular agenda item is an update on business performance , financials , treasury and investor relations topics. As part of 
this agenda item, the Supervi sory Board tracks the company ’s financial performance, approves the annual Finance and 
Capital Expenditure Plan, is updated on capital markets expectations and deliberates on any additional treasury topics as 
needed.  In 202 1, the Supervisory Board also discussed and approved the usual share buy -back programs to cover 
commitments under share -based compensation plans and the stock dividend.  In addition, the early redemption of a €500 
million bond was discussed and approved.  
Strategy  is a key topic on the Sup ervisory Board’s agenda. In 2021,  the Supervisory Board was actively involved in the 
discussions on our decision to accelerate the company’s strategic journey , including the reorganization of the company 
into a focused Health, Nutrition & Bioscience  company  and the start of the review of strategic options for our Materials 
businesses . The Supervisory Board also extensively discussed DSM’s new Food System Commitments .  
The Supervisory Board was also actively involved in the process of reviewing several  potential M&A  targets, which led in 
2021 to the acquisition of the flavor and fragrance bio -based intermediates business of Amyris Inc. as well as the 
acquisition of First Choice Ingredients, a leading supplier of dairy -based savory flavorings. The Superv isory Board also 
discussed the company’s precision & personalization activities  and performed a deep dive on DSM’s prod uction site in 
Lalden (Switzerland) as well as a  post-investment review on BP&S/POET. Also, DSM’s key innovation projects were  
discussed with the Supervisory Board.  Report by the Supervisory Board – Supervisory Board Report  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  155 Site visits  
Every year, the Supervisory Board visits DSM sites  in a particular region. This fosters interaction with employees across 
different areas of the company and provides Supervisory Board members with opportunities for continuing education. This 
year’s visit was fully dedicated to DSM Austria Gm bH – founded i n 2021 after the acquisition of Erber Group, including 
Biomin  and Romer Labs. The visit deepened the Supervisory Board’s understanding of DSM’s specialty Animal Nutrition & 
Health business, and more specifically its capabilities in mycotoxin ri sk management, gut health performance 
management, and food and feed safety diagnostics.  
The site visit started in Tulln , where the Managing Director of Biomin welcomed the Supervisory Board to its Campu s, the 
global hotspot in mycotoxin research. The Supe rvisory Board was presented with an overview of Biomin’s  research 
activities, followed by a tour through the  company’s  research facilities. Mycotoxin risk management includes creating 
awareness  of, and offering unique and specific solutions for , mycotoxin deactivation. Biomin is also a major producer of 
phytogenic and probiotic feed alternatives to antibiotics, which strengthens DSM ’s position in the rapidly growing global 
eubiotics market for improving animal gut health. The tour continued with the opening  of the new Analytical  Center of 
Excellence  Laboratory  in Tulln which will be used to conduct nutritional  analysis to help boost the nutrition, health and 
sustainability of livestock . Thereafter , the Supervisory Board received a presentation on Romer Labs , which is at the 
forefront of diagnostic technology , with innovative testing solutions for the analysis of mycotoxins in feed an d food, food 
allergens and pathogens as well as veterinary drug residues . Romer Labs possesses  accredited full -service labs in A ustria, 
the UK, the US and Singapore.  
The Supervisory Board and Executive Committee visit the Biomin laboratories in Tulln (Austria).  
After the visit to the Campus in Tulln, the Supervisory Board travelled to Getzersdorf, where they received various 
presentations  on Specialty Animal Nutrition & Health, the history of Erber , and the company’s integration into DSM after 
the acquisition. The Supervisory Board received a tour through the Erber building, which was built according to geomantic 
and F eng Shui principles, being the first platinum LEED -certified building in Austria. Together with all the employees in 
Getzersdorf , the Supervisory Board attended the grand opening of DSM Austria, in the presence of the governor of Lower 
Austria, Johanna Mik l-Leitner and the Dutch ambassador to Austria, H .E. Aldrik Gierveld. The next day , a reception was 
organized at the residence of the Dutch ambassador to Austria to discuss DSM ’s and Austria’s activities in the area of 
agriculture.  
Report by the Supervisory Board – Supervisory Board Report  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  156 During various occasions  throughout the visit, the members of the Supervisory Board  interacted with DSM Austria’s  
employees  to get to know each other and ask questions. Employees and  Supervisory Board members  alike  were impressed 
by the positive and transparent atmosphere. An eve ning was spent with local executives discussing the execution of DSM’s 
strategy, its culture , and its approach to talent development , along with the further developments within DSM Animal 
Nutrition & Health. Finally, the Supervisory Board meeting of the fo llowing day gave the  Supervisory Board the opportunity 
to share its impressions with the Executive Committee members who also participated in the site visit.  
Supervisory Board meetings and performance evaluation  
In 20 21, the Supervisory Board held its five regular meetings  and one regular call in the presence of the Managing Board  
and Executive Committee , as well as three additional  calls also in the presence of the Managing Board  and Executive 
Committee members . There w ere also four Supervisory Board calls in 2021 for which the decision -making had been 
mandated by the Supervisory Board to the Chair of the Board and the Chair of the Audit Committee, who both attended 
these calls. The Supervisory Board had one additional  call to decide and approve on the appointment of Thomas Leysen 
as new Chair of the Supervisory Board at the close of the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders in 2021.  On one date , a 
member was excused due to conflicting commitments.  All meetings but one t ook place virtually as a result of the COVID -19 
restrictions. The additional calls were needed to discuss and approve the acceleration of DSM’s strategic journey and the 
announcement of our new Food System Commitments . The additional calls were also needed  to discuss and approve 
possible acquisitions.  Information on attendance of Board and Committee meetings can be found in the table in this 
Supervisory Board Report . 
The Supervisory Board also convenes in the absence of the Managing Board, which usually happens  either  before  or after 
a meeting.  
An evaluation  of the Supervisory Board is performed once every three years by an external advisor; th e last took place  in 
2019. In the other two years, including 2021, the evaluation of the Supervisory Board is performed by means of a self -
assessment consisting of a written survey , followed by in -depth, one -on-one interviews between the Chair and individual 
Supervisory Board members.  Furthermore, the Deput y Chair interacted with all Supervisory Board members to assess the 
performance of the Chair. The outcome of the evaluation was presented to, and discussed with, the Supervisory Board in 
December, in the absence of the Managing Board.  
The overall feedback  from the evaluation  in 202 1 was again positive  and the members feel that the Board functions well.  
The quality of the discussions, which include constructive challenging, were appreciated. The Supervisory Board members 
also praised the smooth transition t o the new Chair of the Board , and all members strongly value the composition of the 
Supervisory Board in all its dimensions. Despite the fact that the members of the Supervisory Board miss the moments of 
personal interactions in the context of face -to-face meetings, there is a sense of collegiality and mutual trust. Some points 
for improvement were noted, whereby the Supervisory Board asked to spend even more time on deep dives into DSM’s 
various businesses  as well as to increase time on post -acquisition an d post-investment reviews. The Supervisory Board 
also wants to spend more time on self -education , outside its regular meetings.  
While the Managing Board’s performance  is (indirectly) also assessed as part of the evaluation, this happens throughout 
the year  as part of the discussions on succession planning in the Nomination Committee . This applies particularly when 
the performance appraisals of Managing Board members are discussed, as well as their performance versus their 
individual targets in the Remuneration Committee. The Nomination and Remuneration Committees report back on these 
discussions to the Supervisory Board.  
Committees  
The Supervisory Board has four committees  to cover key areas in greater detail: Nomination, Remuneration, Sustainabilit y 
and Audit. These are described in more detail below.  Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  157 Report by the Superviso ry Board – Superviso ry Board Report 
Board nominations 
The Nomination Committee comprises Thomas Leysen (Chair), Eileen Kennedy a nd Pradeep Pant . The Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee has a standing invitation to the Nomination Committee and participated in all five meetings. 
Geraldine Matchett, Dimitri de Vreeze and Cristina Monteiro, Executive Vice President People & Organization, were also 
involved in this Committee ’s discussions. The Committee met five times in 2021. The recommendations of all Nomination 
Committee meetings were shared with the entire Supervisory Board. This feedback included advice and recommendations 
regarding topics to be approved by the full Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board also has access to all the meetin g 
materials posted for the Nomination Committee meetings. 
In 2021, discussions in this committee focused o n succession planning for the Managing Board, the Executive Committee, 
and the Supervisory Board. With respect to the Executive Committee, the discussions focused on the replacement of 
Cristina Monteiro, who, as of 15 October took a temporary leave of absence due to family circumstances. It was decided 
that Geraldine Matchett, Co-CEO DSM, would assume the role of Executive Vice President People & Organization, ad 
interim, supported by CEO.works, led by Hein Knaapen, safeguarding the continuity of critical initiatives such as the roll-
out of the P&O strategy and the further shaping of an inclusive and diverse culture while focusing on talent development 
and the talent pipeline.  
As in other years, the Supervisory Board established that the compositio n of the Managing Board is, and will remain, 
diverse in nationality, gender, background, expertise and experience, and that it provides a good foundation to support all 
Business Groups in achieving their targets and thus delivering on the company strategy. For detailed background 
information on the Managing Board members, see the company website under Corporate Governance and in the Managing  
Board section of this Report. 
Taking into account the Supervisory Board profile as laid down in the Supervisory Board regulations, the Nomination 
Committee continued discussions on the overall composition of the Supervisory Board a nd discusse d succession planning 
for the Supervisory Board. At the 2021 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, Carla Mahieu and Corien Wortmann-Kool 
were appointe d to the Supervisory Board. Frits van Paassche n and John Ramsay were reappointed as members of the 
Supervisory Board. In addition, in view of Rob Routs stepping down as Chair of the Board with effect from the Annual 
General Meeting of Shareholders on 6 May 2021, Thomas Leysen was appointed by the Supervisory Board as his successor. 
In 2021, the Nomination Committee also discussed several profiles that could potentially replace Eileen Kennedy when she 
is to step down as member of the Supervisory Board at the 2022 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders.   
Board remuneration 
The Remuneration Committee ha d five meetings in 2021 . Carla Mahieu (Chair), Thomas Leysen, John Ramsay and Frits van 
Paasschen are members of this committee. Recommendations of the Remuneration Committee meetings were shared with 
the full Supervisory Board a nd were used to determine the final remuneration of the members of the Managing Board. The 
Supervisory Board also has access to all the meeting materials provided for the Remuneration Committee meetings. For 
more informatio n on the remuneration policy, see the company website . For the implementation of that policy in 2021, see 
the R
enumeration report 2021 . 
Discussions focused on the performance a nd the relate d remuneration of the members of the Managing Board, in respect 
of both company and individual performance in 2021. The majority of discussion time in 2021 was spent on remuneration 
topics related to the Short-Term Incentive (STI) a nd Long-Term Incentive (LTI) scorecard. Attention was given both to the 
setting of targets for 2021 a nd to first estimates of performance against those targets, gender pay gap, equal pay, and next 
steps to be taken in the Remuneration Report in terms of disclosures. Initial discussions also took place on possible 
amendments to the company’s remuneration policy. The performance and remuneration of the Executive Committee 
members were also shared with the Remuneration Committee. Geraldine Matchett, Dimitri de Vreeze an d Cristina Monteiro 
were also partly involved in these discussions. 
Sustainability 
The Sustainability Committee  prepares the Supervisory Board’s discussions on sustainability topics. The Sustainability 
Committee met four times in 2021. This Committee comprises Eileen Kennedy (Chair), Erica Mann, Frits van Paasschen and 
Corien Wortmann-Kool. The Chair of the Supervisory Board has a standing invitation a nd participated in all meetings. The 
recommendations of these meetings were shared a nd discussed with the entire Supervisory Board during its meetings Report by the Supervisory Board – Supervisory Board Report  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  158 with the Managing Board. The Supervisory Bo ard has access to all the meeting materials provided for the Sustainability 
Committee meetings. The feedback from the Committee to the full Board included advice and recommendations regarding 
topics to be approved by the Supervisory Board, in particular th e sustainability reporting in this Report. Taking into 
consideration the draft  Assurance report of the independent auditor on the Sustainability Information by KPMG , the full 
Supervisory Board approved the reporting against  these topics  on 1 March  2022. The assurance report was finalized by 
KPMG after the approval of the Supervisory Board.  The Sustainability Information compl ies with the Standards of the 
Global Reporting Initiative and our internal reporting criteria, which are included in this Report, and is also aligned with 
the international Integrated Reporting Council <IR> Framework where possible.  
During the year, recurring topics were the company ’s performance  against its People and Planet aspirations, with a focus 
on safety, emissions reduction, Brighter Living Solutions, and Inclusion & Diversity. Through these discussions, the 
Sustainability Committee followed up on the progress made with the implementation of the sustainability and safety 
aspirations  set as part of the company’s s trategy.  Safety was extensively addressed, including an increased focus on the 
implementation of DSM’s Life Saving Rules at newly acquired sites.  In addition, the Sustainability Committee extensively 
discussed the company’s n ew Food System Commitments  as well as the implementation of a water target.  The 
Sustainability Committee also performed a deep dive on our ESG KPIs, Precision Solutions , and the new sustainable 
portfolio steering methodology for Brighter Living Solutions. In terms of Inclusion & Diversity, the Sustainability Committee 
reviewed and discussed the company’s performance as well as our long -term strategic ambitions.  
Financials and auditing  
The activities of the Supervisory Board in the area of financials and au diting are prepared by the Audit Committee . The 
Audit Committee met six times in 20 21. John Ramsay (Chair), Pradeep Pant , Erica Mann  and Corien Wortmann -Kool are 
members of the Audit Committee. All Supervisory Board members have a standing invitation to attend Audit Committee 
meetings . In 2021, most of them used this standing invitation for the two conference calls in which the financial 
developments and inter im results for the first and third quarter were discussed, as these are not followed by a full  
Supervisory  Board meeting. The Chair of the Supervisory Board participated in all meetings and calls.  The highlights of all 
Audit Committee meetings were shared with the full Supervisory Board. This feedback included advice and 
recommendations regarding topics to be approved by the full Supervisory Board. In 20 21, these included the approval of 
the 202 1 COA Audit plan  and the proposed reappointment of the external  auditor (approved by the 2021 Annual General 
Meeting of Shareholders). All Supervisory Board members  have access to all the meeting materials posted for the Audit 
Committee meetings.  
Our external auditor KPMG , Geraldine Matchett  in her capacity as CFO,  and the Senior Vice President  Group Controll er 
participated in all the meetings of the Audit Committee. So did Dimitri de Vreeze  in his capacity as Co-CEO, along with the 
managers responsible for  internal audit, risk management and compliance , with the excep tion of the two meetings  in 
which the financial developments and interim results for the first and third quarter were discussed. Four times a year, the 
Audit Committee meets with the external auditor without the Managing Board being present.  
The Committee had in -depth discussions of the company ’s financials : the Finance plan , the Capital Expenditure plan , 
dividend proposals , the financial statements , and accounting policy changes. The discussions of internal risk management 
and control systems included the Internal Control Framework, compliance with recommendations and observations made 
by internal and external auditors, and the role and functioning of COA . This included  the endorsement of COA’s  propo sed 
audit plan for 202 2, which was subsequently approved by the full Board , as well as the COA Vision 2023 document . As part 
of the Corporate Risk Assessment, the company ’s main risks and their mitigation were discussed. The Committee also 
discussed and ev aluated cases submitted under the company whistleblower policy (DSM Alert), fraud cases, on -going 
litigation , and privacy compliance . Another recurring topic is our cybersecurity resilience, about which the Audit Committee 
is informed through a dashboard , as well as information on running cybersecurity programs and cybersecurity governance. 
In addition , the Audit Committee discussed the progress of the update of the Internal Control Framework.  
Discussions were held with KPMG about the audit plan, management letter, audit report and financial statements for 202 1, 
including managerial judgments and key accounting estimates.  In its management letter, KPMG shared the outcome of its 
evaluation of the company’s procedures and system of internal controls to the extent necessary within the scope of the 
audit of the financial statements. The observations of KPMG were presented along the pillars that support our in -control 
statement with a continued  focus  on the Internal Control Framework pillar (for the  Statements of the Managing Board , and Report by the Supervisory Board – Supervisory Board Report  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  159 for a visualization of our control environment see Corporate governance ). KPMG confirmed that DSM continued the journey 
of improving its Internal Control Framework. At the same time it also encouraged DSM to continue further improving, 
specifically in the area of documentation of controls. The management letter contained constructive recommendations to 
continue to monitor whether the organization is able to keep up with the rapid changes that the company is going 
through.   
Finally, in 20 21, the Audit Committee formally evaluated the external auditor , and discussed the reappointment of KPMG . 
The proposal to reappoint KPMG is based  on the Audit Committee ’s own assessment of KPMG, on discussions with KPMG in 
the absence of management,  and on the outcome of an evaluation among DSM executi ves.  
Financial statements 20 21 
The Report by the Managing Board and the financial statements for 20 21 were submitted by the Managing Board to the 
Supervisory Board, in accordance with the provisions of Article 30 of the Articles of Association, and were s ubsequently 
approved  by the Supervisory Board on 1 March 2022 . The financial statements were audited by KPMG, who issued an 
unqualified opinion  (see the  Independent auditor’s report ). The Supervisory Board e stablished that the external auditor 
was independent of DSM.  
The Supervisory Board will submit the 2021 financial statements to the 2022 Annual General Meeting  of Shareholders, and 
will propose that the shareholders adopt them and release the Managing Boar d from all liability in respect of its 
managerial activities and release the Supervisory Board from all liability in respect of its supervision of the Managing 
Board. The profit appropriation as proposed by the Managing Board and approved by the Supervisor y Board is presented 
in the Profit section  of this Report . 
Remuneration report 202 1 
Introduction by the Chair of the Remuneration Committee  
The COVID -19 pandemic once again had a significant impact on the daily life  of our employees  as well as our businesses in 
2021. The number one priority remai ned as always to safeguard the safety, health and well -being of our employees. In 
January 2021,  we paid a special COVID -19 bonus to our employees around the globe in recognition of their continuous 
efforts to keep the business on track during the pandemic . In all our operating facilities, measures were taken to reduce 
COVID -19 risks . Building on experiences gained in the course of  the pandemic, DSM introduced a hybrid working concept, 
allowing for new, innovative ways of working.  Support was provided in set ting up safe and suitable workplaces at home, 
deploying initiatives to ensure compliance with occupational healthcare considerations when working from home.  
Our businesses showed a strong financial performance in 2021 in dynamic market conditions, and we r emained well on 
track on our People and Planet objectives. Good end -user demand drove the continued positive momentum of our 
Nutrition business while our Materials business recorded a very strong recovery from the impact of the COVID -19 
pandemic. By active ly managing the volatile dynamics of the global supply chain we remained able to meet the needs of 
our customers. Nutrition recorded strong organic sales growth, driven by very strong volumes in Animal Nutrition and 
Personal Care. Human Nutrition and Food Specialties recorded further good organic growth, building upon their strong 
performances in the prior year. Organic sales growth in Materials was close to 30% on the back of exceptional strong sales 
supported by supply disruptions and material shortages i n the industry. Furthermore, Materials delivered a strong 
operational performance, successfully navigating global supply chain challenges as well as the disruptions caused by the 
semiconductor shortages impacting the automotive industry. In 2021 , the dives tment of our Resins & Functional Materials  
and associated businesses  was successfully completed.  
In September, we  announced our intention to accelerate our strategic  journey to become a company focused on Health, 
Nutrition & Bioscience, better placed to d eploy our resources and capabilities to address ing the urgent societal and 
environmental challenges linked to the way the world produces and consumes food. The health and well -being of people, Report by the Supervisory Board – Remuneration report 202 1 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  160 animals, and the planet  are impacted by multiple systemic and interconnected food system challenges. DSM  is well 
positioned to respond to these challenges, using a dvances in digital technology and bioscience that offer realistic scalable 
solutions  to innovate and to create new markets. As a global leader , we have  the opportunity, capability and therefore 
responsibility to apply our resources and expertise  where the se can have the greatest impact. By focusing exclusively on 
our activities  in Health, Nutrition & Bioscience,  we will be able to operate with g reater agility and impact and meet the 
growing need for better and more sustainable food systems. Within  this context, we are unlikely to be able to maximize the 
Materials businesses’ full potential to drive the important industrial shift to a bio -based an d circular economy. We are 
therefore  reviewing strategic options for both Materials businesses, including a possible change of ownership.  
In view of this, we have simplif ied the  operating structure  with effect from 1 January 2022. At the heart of our strategic 
direction is the creation  of three market -focused Business Groups : Food & Beverage, Animal Nutrition & Health, and 
Human Nutrition & Care. Each Business Group will be much more closely  aligned with its respective customers and  
(through the integratio n of research & development activities  previously  performed by the DSM Innovation Center ) will be 
fully equipped to rapidly develop impactful , science -based , market -ready innovation s. Our Business Groups are supported 
by global enabling functions. These fu nctions have reviewed their operating model, focusing on their core role, aiming for 
simplification, and optimizing the use of digital technologies to maximize their contribution to achieving the three 
Business Groups’ objectives.  
Related to the strategic direction, we announce d a series of new quantifiable commitments  designed  by 2030 help to 
address urgent societal and environmental challenges linked to how the world produces and consumes food. In doing so , 
we are one of the first  companies in the consumer ingredient sector to make its societal impact explicit through a set of 
measurable Food System Commitments.  Besides  this, we announced that we will accelerate our greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions reduction target versus 2016, provi ding a firm foundation for the company  to achieve net -zero by 2050.  
In last year’s Remuneration report, we announced a review of the Remuneration Policy for the Managing Board, 
considering the new strategic direction as well as the challenge of attracting  senior international business leaders from a 
remuneration perspective. It was decided to take sufficient time for this review in consideration of the strategic update, 
the organizational restructuring, and our new quantifiable commitment to address challe nges of the world’s food systems, 
while allowing sufficient time to consult our main stakeholders.    
The 2021 r emuneration  reported herein is fully aligned with the deployment of DSM’s  strategic objectives . In addition , we 
continued in 2021 to deliver imp rovements in customer -centricity, large innovation projects, integrating acquired 
businesses, cost control and operational excellence, resulting in sound results , which are reflected in the remuneration as 
presented in this report.  
The Supervisory Board has taken a balanced approach toward the remuneration of the Managing Board. Whereas no base 
salary increase was applied for the Managing Board and the Executive Committee  in 2020, the Supervisory Board decided 
to adjust base salaries  for the Managing Board considering that our Co-CEOs’  remuneration , at the beginning of their 
tenure, was positioned below the level of the previous  CEO and clearly below the median of the peer group. After careful 
consideration of the impact of the pandem ic, the Supervisory Board decided not to take any other remuneration measures 
in 2021 .  
I would like to thank m y predecessor Pauline van der Meer Mohr who joined DSM’s Supervisory Board in 2011  and chaired 
the Remuneration Committee since 2016. As member of the Supervisory Board, Pauline made many outstanding 
contributions to the transformation of the company, for which DSM is very grateful. As Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee, Pauline has been leading the way in establishing a balanced remuneration poli cy in line with DSM’s purpose 
and strategy, reflecting both financial and non -financial targets while meeting new governance requirements. I like to 
express my deep appreciation for Pauline’s professional and sound judgement and organizational savviness in  this field. It 
is my privilege to take over from her and to build on the strong foundation which was put place under her leadership. We 
wish Pauline every success with her next endeavors.  
This Remuneration report provides a summary of the remuneration pol icy for the Managing Board of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 
and the Supervisory Board of Koninklijke DSM N.V. respectively, as well as an overview of the remuneration of the 
members of the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board in the financial year 202 1. The ful l remuneration policy as Report by the Supervisory Board – Remuneration report 202 1 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  161 approved by the AGM in 2019 is published on the company website . This report is prepared in accordance with the re levant 
parts of Section 135 Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.  
Carla Mahieu  
Chair , Remuneration Committee  
Remuneration of the Managing Board  of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 202 1 
Summary of the remuneration policy  Managing Board of Koninklijke DSM N.V.  
The remuneration policy of the Managing Board  is designed to attract and retain qualified leaders who can shape  our 
purpose -led, performance -driven strategy , engage our people and other stakeholders , and ultimately achieve results – 
putting customers first  and delivering on our company’s promises. The policy provides clear focus : improv ing company 
performance and enhanc ing purpose -led, long-term value creation across multiple dimensions ( People: individual and  
societal ; Planet: ecological  and sustainability ; and Profit: economic  and financial) while recognizing the interests of all our 
stakeholders (especially our customers, employees  and shareholders, as well as society at large).  
Remuneration is linked to company and individual performance. Based on the company’s s hort- and long-term strategic 
objectives as well as our business drivers, results are measured on the basis of specified targets, balancing short - and 
long-term outcomes, serving the interests of all our stakeholders. To be competitive and to ensu re alignment internally, 
Total Direct Remuneration offered by DSM approaches – from below  – the median of a predefined peer group. Reward 
levels are benchmarked against  the Dutch/European labor market peer group, while  the design of various reward 
componen ts is reviewed against the broader perspective of  best market practices.  
Labor market peer group  
European industry peers:  Dutch AEX-listed peers:  
-Clariant AG -Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V.
-Covestro AG -Akzo Nobel N.V.
-Evonik Industries AG -ASML Holding N.V.
-Givaudan SA -Heineken N.V.
-Johnson Matthey Plc -Koninklijke KPN N.V.
-LANXESS AG -Koninklijke Philips N.V.
-Lonza Group AG -Randstad N.V.
-Solvay SA -Wolters Kluwer N.V.
The full version of the remuneration policy of the Managing Board Koninklijke DSM N.V., as approved by the 2019 AGM, is 
available on the company website . The following table specifies the elements of the remuneration policy , describing their 
purpose, design and link to our company strategy , as well as their potential value.  
Purpose  Design and link to strategy Value  
Goal 
The goal of DSM's remuneration policy for the Managing Board is to offer an on -target total remuneration package 
approaching – from below – the median of the labor market peer group.  
Total Direct Compensation  
Is the basis for benchmark 
efforts, i.e., the reference to  
the labor market peer group.  Includes base salary and variable income. Variable 
income concerns the performance -related Short -
Term Incentive (STI) and the STI deferral & matching 
plan, as well as the Long -Term Incentive plan (LTI). In 
addition, Managing B oard members are entitled to 
certain benefits.  Value of each respective item is 
included hereafter.  Report by the Supervisory Board – Remuneration report 202 1 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  162 Purpose  Design and link to strategy Value  
Base salary  
Basic pay for doing the job.  Aims to provide a fair and competitive basis for the 
total pay level in order to attract and retain qualified 
leaders. Annual review based on the market 
movement for executives based in the Netherlands 
and peer companies. Regular in -depth benchmark.  Base salaries at DSM approach  
–from below – the median of
the labor market peer group.
Short -Term Incentive (STI)  
Incentive aligning short -term 
business objectives and 
business drivers with 
strategic company objectives. 
Driving pay for performance.  The Supervisory Board sets goals and targets for the 
respective performance year and determines the 
extent to which these  have been achieved. By 
ensuring that strategic objectives are properly 
reflected in stretching yet achievable targets, the 
realization of strategic business objectives is 
addressed. Half of the at -target STI is linked to 
financial objectives; the other ha lf is tied to 
sustainability aspirations and individual goals.  On-target performance: 50% of 
annual base salary. Maximum 
opportunity capped at 100%. 
Threshold: no STI pay -out in 
case the target for Adjusted 
EBITDA is not achieved to the 
level of at least 7 5%. 
STI deferral & matching   
Ensures that longer -term 
considerations are 
sufficiently considered in 
pursuing short -term 
objectives.  Conversion of STI into shares, with a 1:1 company 
match delivered in Performance Share Units (PSUs). 
The PSUs vest upon the realization of predefined 
goals (same as LTI program), observing a three -year 
vesting period. By linking the vesting of the PSUs to 
the targets of the LTI program, it is ensured that 
decisions regarding short -term results are aligned 
with long -term value creation.  Mandatory conversion: 25% of 
STI achieved; voluntary 
conversion: 0 –25%, with 
incremental steps of 5%. 
Maximum number of mat ching 
PSUs to vest is equal to number 
of PSUs granted.  
Long -Term Incentive (LTI)   
Focus on long -term value 
creation. Designed to ensure 
that decisions made are in 
the long -term interests of all 
stakeholders and to ensure 
that interests of the Managing 
Board and the company 
stakeholders are aligned.  PSUs are awarded every year, to be con verted into 
shares upon realization of predefined targets, 
observing a three -year vesting period. A five -year 
holding period (starting at grant date) applies. 
Performance goals are based on company strategy, 
driving long -term value creation. Half of the ta rget 
LTI is linked to financial goals; the other half is linked 
to sustainability aspirations. Performance is 
measured over three financial years, starting with the 
year of grant.  Based on face value, the at -
target grant equals 100% of 
base salary; the num ber of PSUs 
granted equals the maximum to 
vest (i.e., 150% of base salary). 
Therefore, the maximum vesting 
opportunity is 100% of the 
number of PSUs granted.  
Shareholding requirement  
Aligning reward to the 
interests of stakeholders and 
emphasizing confidence in 
performance and strategy.   Managing Board members are expected to build up a 
shareholding in the company; the minimum 
shareholding requirement must be accrued in four 
years. Considered are shares privately purchased and 
vested sha res granted under DSM share -based 
compensation plans.  The minimum share -holding 
requirement is 300% of annual 
base salary for both Co -CEOs 
and 200% for other Managing 
Board members.  
Pension and other benefits   
Post-retirement  remuneration 
contributing to the 
competitiveness of the 
overall package. Together 
with other benefits, creates 
alignment with market 
practice.  Mandatory enrollment in basic pension plan as 
applicable to all DSM employees in the Netherlands 
(Collective Def ined Contribution). In addition, a 
company -paid contribution to allow participation in 
the so -called Net Pension Plan under conditions as 
applicable to Netherlands -based employees 
(Individual Defined Contribution).  
Other benefits include sick pay (aligned  with 
Netherlands -based employees) and a company car.  Pension scheme aligned with 
plans in place for employees in 
the Netherlands.  
Other benefits aligned with 
market practice.  Report by the Supervisory Board – Remuneration report 202 1 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  163 Purpose  Design and link to strategy Value  
Goal- and target -setting   
Goal- and target -setting are 
key to drive pay for 
performance aligned with 
Company strategy and to 
ensure that decisions made 
and results delivered are 
aligned with the interests of 
DSM's stakeholders.  The Supervisory Board sets goals, their respective 
weight and targets (i.e., metric to be achieved) for the 
respective performance year under the STI and LTI 
scheme, considering:  
-Company strategy
-Focus on long -term value creation
-Historical performance, business outlook, and
circumstances and priorities
-Stakeholder expectations
-At target level, there is a 50:50 split between
financial goals and sustainability/individual
goals.Targets must be stretching yet 
achievable.  
The company website  contains an overview of the m ain terms and conditions of employment of both Co-CEOs. 
Total remuneration of the Managing Board 202 1 
Introduction  
Actual remuneration for 2021 is fully aligned with the remuneration policy , which complies with EU requirements and 
Dutch legislation.  
2021 was the first  full year in which Geraldine Matchett and Dimitri de Vreeze were  in charge as Co -CEOs. A comparison 
with 2020 is somewhat distorted, because the remuneration for that year was partly based on the ir capacity as a Member 
of the Managing Board and partly in the ir capacity as Co-CEOs.   
Base salary  
As already reported in the 2020 Remuneration report , a quick scan was conducted  early 2021 , benchmarking DSM’s  position 
within the labor  market peer group as defined within the Remuneration Policy of the Managing Board of Koninklijke DSM 
N.V. Whereas the policy is to approach the median from below, the benchmark showed that DSM had dropped to the 
lowest position in the peer group as far as  targeted total Direct Compensation ( annual base salary plus targeted Short -
Term Incentive plus targeted Long -Term Incentive) is concerned . As a first step to close the gap , the Supervisory Board 
decided  to adjust annual base salary of the Co -CEOs to €  1,003,625 on annual basis  per 15 February 2021. This adjustment 
reflects the fact that the annual base salary of the Co -CEOs was initially set below the level of their predecessor and 
considers the market movement of the peer group . After this adjustment and compared to the quick scan mentioned, the 
Co-CEOs ’ base salary move d toward  the 25th percentile of the labor market peer group , whereas target Total Direct 
Compensation still remains below the 25th percentile.   
Fixed annual base salary  
in € 15 February 2021  15 February 2020  
Geraldine Matchett  1,003,625  925,000  
Dimitri de Vreeze  1,003,625  925,000  
Goals and targets incentive programs  
Our purpose as company is to create brighter lives for all. We are therefore in business to generate profitable growth while 
at the same time contributing to a better world. Our focus in 2021 was on developing innovative solutions addressing our 
three focus domains: Nutrition & Health, Climate & Energy, and Resources & Circularity. Our initiative s within these focus 
domains were brought together in the three pillars of our Brighter Living Agenda:  
-improving our own operations (for example, by reducing our emissions)Report by the Supervisory Board – Remuneration report 202 1 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  164 -enabling our customers to deliver healthy and sustainable solutions by developing and providing products that,
from a Triple -P perspective, stand out against mainstream products
-accepting and acting on our responsibilities as a corporate member of society
Our focus shifted in light of the strategic update announced in Septemb er 2021. With a growing global population, the 
world is facing multiple systemic and interconnected food system challenges that impact the health and well -being of 
people, animals and the planet. DSM has the capability and therefore the responsibility to m ake a meaningful impact on 
the world’s food systems. Helping to bring about a positive transformation in global food systems also creates attractive 
new market opportunities for our company. With this new strategic focus, we are therefore staying true to o ur purpose of 
creating brighter lives for all.  
Related to this framework, a broader set of key performance indicators (KPIs) was defined, some of them feature in our 
incentive programs. Added to this are financial targets that reflect our financial perfor mance, since contributing to brighter 
lives goes hand in hand with profitable growth. The design of our Short- and Long-Term incentive plans emphasizes the 
importance of building long -term growth opportunities. Targets on energy efficiency and  greenhouse g as (GHG) emission 
reduction  and building our portfolio  of Brighter Living Solutions  underpin our commitment to contribute to a better world,  
while  at the same time generating profitable growth in line with our key strategic goals (Adjusted EBITDA and Adjus ted net 
operating free cash flow) and safeguarding employee safety and engagement (definitions are provided in the respective 
paragraph ).  
A comprehensive scenario analysis was initially conducted when the revised Remuneration policy was prepared. The anal ysis 
confirmed that neither the structure of the incentive schemes nor the nature of the goals would result in inappropriate pay -
out levels. DSM’s Remuneration policy is designed in the interest of long -term value creation, as is confirmed by a range of 
factors, including:  
-the pay mix: the target value of the LTI has twice the target value of the STI
-the mandatory  re-investment of any STI achieved in LTI and the vesting of the match provided on such
investments is subject  to targets with a long -term horizon
-the targets set for the STI or underlying the LTI grants are consistent with DSM’s longer -term strategic financial
and sustainability objectives
By this means, the structure of the policy is designed to ensure that the pursuit of short -term objectives does not prevail 
over the delivery of long -term results.  
Short -Term Incentive (STI)  
This report includes the STI achievement for 2021, payable in Apr il 2022, and based on the base salary paid in 2021. Targets 
were set ahead of the STI cycle, in accordance with the Remuneration policy and with reference to the prior year, the 
budgets and the business plans for the performance year, ensuring that achieve ment of the threshold, target or maximum 
pay-out out are appropriately challenging.  
Definitions of goals set for 2021 STI (total at -target weight is 50% of annual base salary):  
-Adjusted EBITDA (weighting 12.5%): sum of the operating profit plus depreciati on and amortization, adjusted for
material items of profit/loss following acquisitions/divestments, restructurings and other circumstances deemed
necessary
-Adjusted net operating free cash flow (10%): cash flow from operating activities, corrected for the cash flow of the
Alternative Performance Measures (APM) adjustments, minus the cash flow of Capital expenditures and drawing
rights
-Net sales growth (2.5%): net organic sales growth
-Brighter Living Solutions (BLS) (5%): is DSM’s program for the development  of sustainable, innovative solutions
with environmental and/or social benefits, creating shared value for our stakeholders. Brighter Living Solutions
are products, services and technologies that, considered over their life cycle, offer a superior environm ental
impact (ECO+) and/or a superior social impact (People+) when compared to the mainstream alternative for the
same application.
-Safety (5%): based on the Frequency Index for recordable injuriesReport by the Supervisory Board – Remuneration report 202 1 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  165 -Employee Engagement (5%): based on the High -Performance N orm in the industry
-Individual goals (10%): in 2021 the Managing Board / Executive Committee shared two team targets
The financial measures reflect our strategic growth ambitions while the targets related to Brighter Living Solutions, 
Employee Engagement  and Safety relate to our Sustainability Commitments.  
Within DSM’s STI scheme, pay -out brackets are defined, considering the nature of the goal. A minimum threshold is set for 
each goal; an achievement below this threshold results in no pay -out with respec t to that target. Over -performance results 
in a pay -out exceeding 100% where the maximum achievement i s capped  at 200% of the ‘at -target’ weighting of the 
respective goal. Goals, targets and pay -out schedules were defined at the beginning of the year, with  defined brackets 
between ‘threshold’ and ‘maximum’. The following table provides an overview of the realization of the 2021 STI targets.  
2021 STI achievement  
Weight  
in % of 
base salary  Target definition  Achievement  Performance  
achieved  Pay-out 
in % of 
base salary  Pay-out 
Threshold¹ Target Maximum² 
Adjusted EBITDA  12.5%  ≤ €1,635m  €1,725m  > €1,770m €1,814  200%  25% €248,451  
Adjusted net operating free cash 
flow 10.0%  ≤ €795m  €850m  > €905m  €949  200%  20% €198,761  
Net sales growth  2.5% ≤ 2.0%  4.0% > 6.0%  13% 200%  5% €49,690  
Brighter Living Solutions  5.0% ≤ 57.0%  62.0%  > 68.0%  64% 100%  5% €49,690  
Safety  5.0% ≥0.26  0.24 ≤ 0.21  0.22 150%  7.5% €74,535  
Employee Engagement  5.0% ≤ 70.5%  75.0%  > 79.5%  75.3%  100%  5% €49,690  
Individual value adding goals³  
(Between 0 and 200% of target)  10.0%  150%  15% €149,071  
Total STI achieved over 
performance year 2021  82.5%  €819,888  
1 If threshold not achieved, no pay-out on respective goal. 
2 If achievement at maximum or above, pay-out capped at 200% of weighted target. 
3 In 2021, the Managing Board members had two strategic objectives related to the strategic transformation.  
We delivered a strong performance as we continued to successfully navigate dyna mic market conditions. Good end-user 
dema nd further boosted our sales, resulting in an organic sales growth of 13%. The net sales growth target was fully 
realized a nd cappe d at the maximum achievement of 200% (2020 achievement: 0%). The strong sales paired with 
exceptional operational excellence, translated into a step-up of 18% in Adjusted EBITDA, resulting in maximum 
achievement (2020 achievement: 0%). The Adjusted net operating free cash flow also improved by 9% compared to 2020, 
again resulting in maximum achievement. Following the carve out of our Resins & Functional Materials and associated 
businesses, the compositio n of our portfolio changed considerably. Continued innovations contributed to an at-target 
achievement of the BLS-target; 64% (against 63% in 2020) of our products qualify as outstanding compared to mainstream 
solutions. Our safety performance continued to improve as well in 2021. Compared to 2020, the Frequency Index improved 
from 0.24 to 0.22, resulting in an achievement of 150% of target. The simplification of our organizational structure and the 
redesign of the operating model of all our enabling functions as well as the strategic repositioning of our Materials ’ 
business had a significant impact on our employees. Nonetheless, we are proud that the Employee Engagement Score was 
maintained at the targeted level.   
The combined realization resulted in a 2021 STI pay-out as included in the below overview (note: the 2020 STI was pro-rata 
linked to the base salary as respectively Member of the Managing Board a nd as Co-CEO). 
Short-Term Incentive 
in € 2021 2020 
Geraldine Matchett  819,888  545,249  
Dimitri de Vreeze  819,888  545,249  
Short -Term Incentive deferral & matching (STI)  
In addition to the mandatory deferral (25% of STI achieved), the Managing Board members decided to convert another 25% 
(maximum possible) of their STI into shares. This means that the Co -CEOs converted 50% of their STI into this l ong-term 
incentive, demonstrating their trust in the company strategy and their focus on the long term. A 1:1 grant of PSUs was Report by the Supervisory Board – Remuneration report 202 1 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  166 implemented, as included in the following table. The 2021 grant was based on the STI achieved during 2020 and therefore 
on the 2 020 terms and conditions partly tied to remuneration as Member of the Managing Board and partly as Co -CEO.  
Grant of PSUs under the STI deferral & matching scheme  
Number of PSUs  2021 grant  
(vesting 2024)  2020 grant  
(vesting 2023)  
Geraldine Matchett  1,850  1,558  
Dimitri de Vreeze  1,850  1,632  
Long -Term Incentive (LTI)   
2021 and 202 2 grant  
In 2021 , 10,000 Performance  Shares Units (PSUs) were granted (on 31 March) to each of the Co -CEOs (2020: 12,500). The 
grant is based on the annual base salary applicable on the grant date and the average share price in January of the year of 
grant. The 2022 grant (to be implemented 31 March) equals 8,500 PSUs for each Co -CEO. Any grant equals the maximum 
number of PSUs that may vest. The fact that the number of PSUs granted in 2021 and 2022 is lower compared to the 
foregoing year is a result of the share price appreciation.  
Goal set ting 
Targets were set ahead of the LTI cycle, in accordance with the remuneration policy, ensuring that achievement of 
threshold, target or maximum vesting is challenging. The following goals were set for the LTI grants:  
–Total Shareholder Return — TSR (weighting 25%):  sum of capital gain and dividends paid, representing the total return
to shareholders ; the relative ranking (within the peer group) reflects the overall performance relative to our peers
–Return on Capital Employed — ROCE (25%) : operating p rofit as percentage of weighted average capital employed
–Energy Efficiency Improvement — EEI (25%):  the reduction of the amount of energy used per unit product (known as
energy efficiency) on a three -year rolling average basis
–Greenhouse Gas Emissions — GHGE (25%):  as of the 2019 grant: absolute reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in
kilotons over performance; the target up to and including the 2018 grant is based on the reduction of greenhouse gas
emissions per unit of product
Vesting 201 8 grant  
The performance period of the PSUs granted in 2018 was completed by year -end 2020: the actual vesting was on 31 March 
2021. This concerns the PSUs granted under the Long -Term Incentive plan as well as the PSUs granted under the STI 
deferral & matchi ng plan. The following vesting schemes applied.  
TSR¹ ROCE  EEI GHGE Efficiency improvement  
Rank  % of PSUs  
granted  
that vest²  ROCE ultimo  
performance 
period  % of PSUs  
granted  
that vest²  EEI%  
(over a 3 -year 
period)  % of PSUs  
granted  
that vest²  GHGE Efficiency 
improvement % 
(over a 3 -year 
period) % of PSUs  
granted  
that vest²  
1 100 ≥15.75  100 ≥4.00  100 ≥8.75  100 
2 97 15.25 - <15.75  83 3.25 - <4.00  83 8.25 - <8.75  83 
3 93 14.25  - <15.25  67 2.75 - <3.25  67 7.75 - <8.25  67 
4 87 13.75 - <14.25  50 2.50 - <2.75  50 7.25 - <7.75 50 
5 80 13.25 - <13.75  33 2.25 - <2.50  33 6.75 - <7.25  33 
6 73 <13.25  - 2.00 - <2.25 17 6.25 - <6.75  17 
7 67 <2.00  - <6.25 - 
8 50 
9 33 
10–15 -
1 Peer group 2018 grant includes AkzoNobel, Arkema, BASF, Chr. Hanssen, Clariant, Croda International, DuPont/IFF, Evonik, Giva udan, 
Kerry, LANXESS, Lonza, Novozymes, Solvay.  
2 Any PSU grant concerns the maximum number that may vest, 100% vesting included in this table means that the target has been 
achieved to the maximum level.  Report by the Supervisory Board – Remuneration report 202 1 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  167 A strong share price appreciation resulted in the second rank on the relative Total Shareholder Return  goal (same score 
applied for the 2017 grant that veste d in 20 20), resulting in an achievement of 145%; i.e., the vesting of 97% of the PSUs 
initially granted linked to this goal. The ROCE reported over 2020 of 10.3% is substantially below target on the back of 
several acquisitions in the period 2018 -2020. Whe n adjusted for these acquisitions, the ROCE improved to 12.2%, still below 
target. As the threshold was not achieved, no PSUs tied to this goal vested. On Energy Efficiency DSM realized an 
improvement of 9% over the performance period. During the 3 -year pe rformance period total GHG emissions were reduced 
by 30%.  As a result, the vesting related to both sustainability goals was at maximum level. The below table provides an 
overview of the number of PSUs granted in 2018 that vested (i.e., converted to uncondi tional shares) on 31 March 2021. In 
total, 74.2% of the PSUs granted in 2018 vested (note: in 2020, 90.8% of the PSUs granted in 2017 vested). Since the number 
of PSUs granted equals the maximum number to vest, the vesting equals 111.3% of the targeted gra nt (136.3% in 2020 ). 
PSUs granted in 201 8 vested in 202 1 
Numbers of PSUs 
vested¹  LTI STI deferral & 
matching scheme  
Geraldine Matchett  8,162  2,800  
Dimitri de Vreeze  8,162  2,800  
1 At vesting, a sell -to-cover applied: out of the vested shares, a number of shares are sold at vesting date to cover taxes due . 
Pension and other benefits  
Participation in the basic pension plan provided by the Dutch pension fund ( Stichting Pensioenfonds DS M Nederland  – 
PDN) to all DSM employees in the Netherlands  is mandatory for the Managing Board. Regarding pensionable salary not 
covered by the basic pension plan, a company -paid pension contribution as determined by the Supervisory Board applies. 
This con tribution can be used by Managing Board members to participate in the so -called Net Pension Plan under 
conditions applicable to all participating DSM employees.  The company provides accident insurance  cover , a company car , 
and a fixed representation allowa nce in line with market practice.   
Total remuneration  
Actual  total remuneration for 2021 is fully aligned with the remuneration policy.  The following table provides an overview 
of the total remuneration expense for the company in relation to the Managing Board  in accordance with IFRS rules  (these 
costs are not necessarily equal to compensation paid or the cash out for DSM).  
Total remuneration expense fo r the Managing Board in accordance with IFRS definitions 
x € thousand  Fixed  Variable compensation  Fixed  Fixed  Total  Proportion fixed 
/ variable 
remuneration  Base salary / 
fees Short -term 
incentive  Share -based 
compensation¹  Pension 
expenditure  Other items²  
2021 2020  2021 2020  2021³   2020³  2021 2020  2021 2020  2021 2020  2021 2020  
Geraldine Matchett  994  889  820 545  903  987  153  148  17  26 2,887   2,595   40:60  41:59  
Dimitri de Vreeze  994  889  820 545  903  986  180  172  46  47  2,943   2,639   41:59  42:58  
Total  1,988   1,778  1,640   1,090   1,806   1,973   333  320  63  73 5,830   5,234   41:59  41:59  
1 Share-based compensation represents the expense of Performance Share Units (PSUs) awarded. These costs are considered over the vesting period and 
      therefore cover several years. Against the opening price at vesting date (i.e., 31 March 2021), the 2021 vesting (the Co-CEOs together) represented the value 
      of € 3.2 million (2020 €3.7 million), subject to a sell to cover.  
2 Fringe benefits, such as company car and allowances. 
3 Share-based compensation for 2021 concerns the grants in 2018 (partial), 2019, 2020 and 2021 (partial), share-based compensation for 2020 concerns the 
    
 grants in 2017 (partial), 2018, 2019 and 2020 (partial).
In line with the outstanding company performance, t he STI achieved over 2021 compared to 2020 went up, whereas the 
cost of Share based compensation (LTI) decreased due to the valuation and composition of the underlying series. Also 
considering the base salary adjustment, total remuneration expenses incurre d in 2021 went up to € 5,830 million .  
Equity -based compensation  
Main characteristics  
The main conditions of the share -based compensation are:  Report by the Supervisory Board – Remuneration report 202 1 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  168 -Vehicle Performance Share Units (PSUs), converted to shares at vesting  
-Grant date Last trading day in March  
-Vesting period Three years, starting at Grant date  
-Vesting conditions Realization predefined performance goals and in service at vesting date  
-Performance period Three performance years, starting 1 January in the year of grant  
-Holding period Five years, starting at Grant date  
-Lock-up period Blocking period chosen by incumbent; may result in tax discount  
Outstanding Performance Share Units  
The table below provides an overview of outstanding PSUs (granted under the LTI and STI deferral & matching scheme 
respectively).  
Outstanding PSUs  
Year of issue  Outstanding 
at 31 Dec. 
2020 In 2021  Outstanding at 31 
Dec. 2021  Share price  
at date of  
grant (€)  Granted  Vested  Forfeited / expired  
Geraldine Matchett  2018 13,800   - (10,962)  (2,838)  - 80.04
2019 15,052   -  -  -  15,052   97.74  
2020 14,058   -  -  -  14,058   105.00  
2021 - 11,850  -  -  11,850   147.40  
Total  42,910   11,850   (10,962)  (2,838)  40,960   
Retained shares originated from PSUs  51,594   
. 
Dimitri de Vreeze  2018 13,800   - (10,962)  (2,838)  - 80.04
2019 14,974   -  -  -  14,974   97.74  
2020 14,132   -  -  -  14,132   105.00  
2021 - 11,850  -  -  11,850   147.40  
Total  42,906   11,850   (10,962)  (2,838)  40,956   
Retained shares originated from PSUs  42,722  
Upon expiration of their term, Dimitri de Vreeze  exercised in 2021 the legacy stock options initially granted to him in 2013 
(prior to his first appointment as a Managing Board member). During 202 1, he exercised 6,000 stock options; the shares 
obtained were sold for an average share price of €150.47.   
Outstanding stock options  
Year of 
issue  Outstanding at 
31 Dec. 2020  In 2021  Outstanding at 
31 Dec. 2021  Average share 
price at 
exercise (€)  Exercise 
price (€)  Expiry date  
Exercised Forfeited / 
expired  
Dimitri de Vreeze  2013 6,000   (6,000)  -  -  150.47   48.91   7 May 2021  
Total  6,000   (6,000)  -  -  
Of which vested  6,000   -  
For employee information, as required by section 383d Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, reference is made to Note 27 Share-
based compensation . On 31 De cember 2021, 1,665,073 (20 20: 2,460,656) of the total number of treasury shares outstanding 
were held for servicing equity-based remuneration plans.  
Shareholding obligation 
In addition to the performance shares held on the basis of vested grants under the DSM Stock Incentive Plan, the Co-CEOs 
have invested in DSM shares. These shares were bought through private transactions with private funds (including shares 
purchased through STI deferral). The below table provides an overview of the number of shares held at year-end. The Co-
CEOs significantly exceed the shareholding obligation (300% of base salary). Report by the Supervisory Board – Remuneration report 202 1 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  169 Ordinary shares 
purchased with  
private money Holdings from 
vested PSUs Total Ordinary shares 
purchased with  
private money Holdings from 
vested PSUs Total 
Geraldine 
Matchett 16,736 51,594 68,330 14,886 44,990 59,876 
Dimitri de Vreeze 25,839 42,722 68,561 23,989 36,927 60,916 
Total holdings 42,575 94,316 136,891 38,875 81,917 120,792 
Company performance versus remuneration over time  
Five-year review of company performance and Managing Board remuneration  
The following table provides an overview of the development of the remuneration of the members of the Managing Board 
over the past five years, the development of company performance , and the average remuneration of other employees 
(excluding the Managing B oard members ). Total remuneration for Managing Board members consists of the remuneration 
expenses calculated in accordance with IFRS as included in the annual reports of the relevant years. The table provides an 
overview of company performance based on Ad justed EBITDA, share price (year -average) and the reduction of greenhouse 
gas emissions.  
Typically, the share of total remunerati on that is at risk varies for different employee segments and geographies, due to 
the impact of incentive schemes. While  the percentage of variable pay as a percentage of total remuneration is highest for 
the Co-CEOs  (at target 150%), it may be limited or nil for other employee segments or in certain countries (also because of 
collective agreements) . Based on performance, the results of the respective incentive schemes (and therefore the impact 
on total remuneration) varies over time. The average remunerati on of all other employees (excluding the Managing Board) 
is influenced not only by factors such as differences in the pay mix, or changes in exchange rates, but also by factors 
related to the composition of the employee po pulation such as the impact of acq uisitions and divestments, restructuring,  
and in- and outflow of personnel.  
5-year overview of the year -on year -change of remuneration and company performance
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 Average  
Managing Board remuneration  
Geraldine Matchett  Base salary  994 889 630 614 598 745 
11.8%  41.1%  2.6% 2.7% 1.4% 11.9%  
Total remuneration  2,887  2,595  2,182 2,269  1,855  2,358  
11.3%  18.9%  -3.8% 22.3%  12.0%  12.1%  
Dimitri de Vreeze  Base salary  994 889 630 614 598 745 
11.8%  41.1%  2.6% 2.7% 1.4% 11.9%  
Total remuneration  2,943  2,639  2,175 2,188  1,749  2,339  
11.5%  21.3%  -0.6% 25.1%  3.9% 12.2%  
Company performance  
Adjusted EBITDA¹  1,814 1,534  1,551 1,532 1,445  1,575 
18.3%  -1.1% 11.8%²  6.0% 14.5%  9.9% 
Year-average share price (€)  164.86  123.70  103.44  84.00  66.79  108.56  
33.3%  19.6%  23.1%  25.8%  24.4%  25.2%  
Greenhouse gas emission improvement  14.8%  8.5% 12.7%  9.3% 4.1% 9.9% 
Average employee remuneration  
Average remuneration employees global  86,860  84,169  84,320  84,500  85,841  85,138  
3.2% -0.2% -0.2% -1.6% 0.9% 0.4% 
1 Adjusted EBITDA as of 2019 reflects Adjusted EBITDA from Continuing Operations as per current scope. The Adjusted EBITDA for 2017 and 
2018 reflects the Total Group.  
2 EBITDA change versus a pro forma restated 2018 Adjusted EBITDA updated for Continuing Operations. EBITDA change versus 2018
    reported Adjusted EBITDA 1.2%.
DSM’s performance in 2021 improved compared to 2020. Over the last five years, the performance in terms of Adjusted 
EBITDA, share price appreciation and greenhouse gas emissions has been outstanding. The development of the share price 
(as included in the table) as well as the dividends paid over the years subscribe to this. Whereas the Managing Board 31 December 2021 31 December 2020 Managing Board holdings of DSM shares Report by the Supervisory Board – Remuneration report 202 1 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  170 remuneration expenses increased in 2020 as a consequence of the CEO change, the change in 2021 is merely driven by the 
improved business performance, resulting in a higher STI. This demon strates that total Co -CEO remuneration fluctuates in 
accordance with the fluctuations in the Short -Term Incentive and the cost of the share -based compensation. Since for 
employees globally a lesser portion of their total remuneration is variable, the year -to-year change of the average 
remuneration of our employees globally (which includes all employee costs as included in Note 5  of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements) shows less fluctuations . In addition, the average remuneration of all employees is impacted  by 
merger & acquisition activities and restructuring of our operations, while the adjustments of exchange rates also had an 
impact. Furthermore, the year -on-year change of the average employee cost globally, are influenced by the fact that the 
composition of the underlying employee population changes from year to year as a consequence of factors including 
retirements, new hi res and restructurings .    
Pay ratio  
The pay ratio is calculated at 31 December 20 21 and is based on the average remuneration expense reported for each Co -
CEO and the total average employee cost . Intercompany comparisons must be made with caution, as diffe rences in the 
composition of the workforce, the geographical spread or in pay structures may occur. The pay ratio will differ from year to 
year, since the variable pay (as a percentage of annual base salary) will differ from year to year based on company r esults. 
Given that their pay is to a larger extent at risk, such fluctuations have a higher impact at Managing Board or executive 
level, compared to the average  variable pay of the employee group (limited or no variable pay component) . The ratio will 
furth ermore be influenced by differen ces in pay structures  between regions, acquisitions/divestments and foreign 
exchange rates .  
The Monitoring Committee Dutch Corporate Governance Code recommends a definition that considers ‘ the hiring of 
external employees ’ pro-rated, insofar as they are hired for at least three months during the financial year  and whereby 
the average annual remuneration of the employees is determined by dividing the total wage costs in the financial year (as 
included in the consolidated annu al accounts on an IFRS basis) by the average number of FTEs during the financial year . 
Until now, DSM calculated average annual employee remuneration based on headcount. As of 2021, this has been changed 
to FTE (the table below shows the impact over the la st years). The calculation does not yet include ‘ the hiring of external 
employees ’, as the current data architecture does not allow a trustworthy combination of external employees (in FTE) and 
cost involved. Adjustments will be made to meet the criteria in  due course.  
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 
CEO Pay ratio based on headcount  34 33 41 40 32 
CEO Pay ratio based on FTE  34 31 40 40 31 
At DSM , we belie ve that the remuneration throughout the organization should be based on the same principles and values 
but should also consider local regulations and practices. That means that we aim for a consistent global approach 
(median of the market reference) and cons ider local circumstances. This may , for example , result in a different pay mix 
between countries or for employee segments without jeopardizing our principles and values. That is how we built and 
internally align our remuneration policies, incl uding  the Rem uneration policy for the Managing Board. Ratios do not 
necessarily provide a reflection of such considerations , as they  ignore , among other things, the typical differences between 
fixed and variable pay in geographies and/or employee segments  and are influenced by changing currency conversion 
rates  as well as being vulnerable to M&A activities.  
Due to the CEO change, the pay ratio dropped in 2020, since the remuneration package was set lower compared to the 
outgoing CEO, whil e equity -based compensation incl uded series granted in the Co-CEOs’ previous role. The  2021 ratio of 
total remuneration, including annual base salary, STI, LTI and other benefits such as pension (as reported in this 
Remuneration report) versus the average remuneration of total employees globally is 34:1 (20 20: 31:1) for each of the Co -
CEOs.  As explained herein, the increase is merely a consequence of the higher Short -Term incentive over 2021 related to 
the outstanding results.   
Underlying data for the pay ratio calculation can be retriev ed from the table DSM’s remuneration expense for the 
Managing Board  (including table notes) in the section Total remuneration of this Remuneration report, as well as from the 
table  Geographical information in Note 4 Segment information , and from the table Employee benefit costs in Note 5 Net 
sales and costs (continuing operations)  to the consolidated financial statements .  Report by the Supervisory Board – Remuneration report 202 1 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  171 Retrospect and o utlook 
Whereas the overall remuneration expenses in 2020 dropped compared to 2019  as a consequence of the CEO change, the 
remuneration expense in 2021 increased compared to 2020 . In this respect, it is to be consider ed that (until 15 February 
2021) the b ase salary of the Co -CEOs was positioned below base salary of the outgoing CEO , whereas the share units 
granted to the Co -CEOs in 201 8 and  vesting in 2021  concerned a grant based on the ir base salar y as Managing Board 
member s (this effect will also occur in 2022 ). 
Considering the strategic update provided in 202 1 and the pending review of the Remuneration policy , the Supervisory 
Board has decided that the goals underlying the Short - and Long -Term Incentive schemes will not be adjusted for 202 2. 
This review was initiated in view of, among other factors, a quick scan conducted  early in 2021 and benchmarking DSM’s  
position within the labor market peer group as defined within the Remuneration policy. The scan showed that DSM had 
dropped to the lowest posi tion in the peer group as far as targeted total Direct Compensation ( annual base salary plus 
targeted Short -Term Incentive plus targeted Long -Term Incentive) is concerned and  was far from approaching the median 
from below as set out in the Remuneration pol icy. Although DSM in general has a compelling  proposition to attract talent, 
the company  faces more and more difficulties in attracting and retaining senior leaders (one or two reporting levels below 
the Executive Committee). This is due to the fact that t he remuneration of the Managing Board sets a ceiling especially 
with regard to Short - and Long -Term Incentives. Together with the fact that the Managing Board’s targeted Total Direct 
Remuneration is positioned  below the 25th percentile of the labor market peer group, action  was required. In the 
meantime, a policy review project has started. This was necessary o n the one hand to further align actual remuneration of 
the Managing Board with the market and on the other hand to enable  DSM to submit compelling an d competitive 
remuneration propositions to attract and retain senior talents that will help shape the company’s future success. The 
review project is well under way. In the course of 2022, we will consult with investors and proxy advisors to explore views 
and opinions.  
Remuneration of the Supervisory Board of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 202 1 
Summary of the Remuneration policy Supervisory Board of Koninklijke DSM N.V.  
The Remuneration policy is designed to engage qualified leaders with the right balance of personal skills, competences 
and experience required to oversee the execution of the company ’s strategy, its performance and its creation of long-term 
value, recognizing the interests of all stakeholders. In line with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, t he remuneration is 
not linked to company and individual performance. As a reference, the remuneration of the Supervisory Board is 
benchmarked to market practice, predominantly against AEX companies, given the company ’s country of domicile. The 
total fixed remuneration should approach the median of the reference market. The full version of the remuneration policy 
for the Supervisory Board of Koninklijke DSM N.V. as approved by the 20 19 AGM is available on the company website . 
The table below summarizes the key elements of the remuneration policy, describing purpose, design and (potential) 
value.  Report by the Supervisory Board – Remuneration report 202 1 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  172 Purpose  Design  Value  
Fixed fee  
Basic pay for doing the 
job Reward Supervisory Board members and incentivize 
them to utilize their skills and competences to the 
maximum extent possible in executing their tasks. 
The reward reflects the nature of responsibilities, the 
time spent, and aims to provide  a fair and 
competitive pay level to engage qualified leaders.  
Review: in principle, every three years, based on in -
depth benchmarking.  Approaching the median of the 
market reference (predominantly 
AEX companies).  
Position and annual fee:  
-Chair €105,000
-Deputy Chair €75,000
-Member €70,000
-Chair Audit Committee €18,500
-Member Audit Committee €12,000
-Chair other Committees €14,000
-Member other Committees €8,500
Intercontinental travel fee  Fixed amount representing time commitment related 
to intercontinental travel.  €5,000 for each time it is required 
to travel outside the continent of 
residence.  
Expenses  Expenses incurred in fulfilling duties are reimbursed. 
To be paid upon submission of a statement of 
expenses, partially covered by a fixed allowance.  Depending on level of expenses. 
Fixed per annum: €1,250.  
Shareholding requirement  In line with Dutch Corporate Governance Code, no 
mandatory shareholding requirement. Supervisory 
Board members are encouraged to invest in privately 
owned DSM shares.  Not applicable.  
Benefits and loans  Supervisory Board members are not entitled to 
participate in any benefits program offered to 
employees. Loans will not be provided.  Not applicable.  
Total remuneration 202 1 
Committee overview  
The Supervisory Board members are assigned to the various  committees.  
Committee overview  Audit  Nomination  Remuneration  Sustainability  
Thomas Leysen (Chair as of 6 May 2021)  Chair  Member  
John Ramsay (Deputy Chair as of 6 May 2021)  Chair  Member  
Rob Routs (Chair until 6 May 2021)  Chair  Member  
Pauline van der Meer Mohr (Deputy Chair until 6 May 2021)  Member  Chair  
Eileen Kennedy  Member  Chair  
Carla Mahieu (as of 6 May 2021)  Chair  
Erica Mann  Member  Member  
Frits van Paasschen  Member  Member  
Pradeep Pant  Member  Member  
Corien Wortmann -Kool (as of 6 May 2021)  Member  Member  Report by the Supervisory Board – Remuneration report 202 1 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  173 Total Remuneration  
The table provides an overview of total remuneration provided in 20 21. 
Remuneration of Supervisory Board Members  
in € Fixed  Total remuneration  Portion  
fixed/variable  
compensation  Annu al fee Committee fee  Other costs¹  
2021 2020  2021 2020  2021 2020  2021 2020  2021 2020  
Thomas Leysen, Chair as of 6 May 2021  90,417   40,833   21,667   11,958   1,250   729 113,334   53,520   100:0   100:0   
John Ramsay, Dep. Chair as of 6 May 2021  72,917   70,000   27,000   27,000   1,250   1,250   101,167   98,250   100:0   100:0   
Rob Routs, Chair until 6 May 2021  43,750   105,000   9,375   22,500  521  1,250   53,646   128,750   100:0   100:0   
Pauline van der Meer Mohr, Dep. Chair 
until 6 May 2021  31,250   75,000  9,375   22,500  521  1,250   41,146   98,750   100:0   100:0   
Eileen Kennedy, Member  70,000   70,000   22,500  22,500  6,250   6,250   98,750   98,750   100:0   100:0   
Carla Mahieu, Member as of 6 May 2021  40,833   - 8,167  -  729 - 49,729 -  100:0   n.a.
Erica Mann, Member  70,000   70,000   20,500  20,500  1,250   6,250   91,750   96,750   100:0   100:0   
Frits van Paasschen, Member  70,000   70,000   18,458   20,500  11,250   6,250   99,708   96,750   100:0   100:0   
Pradeep Pant, Member  70,000   70,000   20,500  20,500  11,250   6,250   101,750   96,750   100:0   100:0   
Corien Wortmann -Kool, Member as of 6 
May 2021  40,833   - 11,958 -  729 - 53,520  -  100:0   n.a.
Victoria Haynes, Member until 8 May 2020  -  29,167   -  8,542   -  521  -  38,230   n.a. 100:0   
Total  600,000  600,000  169,500   176,500   35,000   30,000  804,500   806,500   100:0   100:0   
1 Involves International travel fee, expenses allowance and expenses exceeding expenses allowance.  
In line with the remuneration policy , variable compensatio n does not apply, and Supervisor y Board member s do no t 
participat e in any pe nsion scheme . No ex traordinar y items apply. The total remuneration o f the Supervisor y Bo ard is at the 
same level as was the ca se dur ing 2020. Note tha t in both year s most meeting s were vir tual , resulti ng in relativel y low 
trave l costs (included in ‘Othe r costs’ .) 
Benefit s and loans 
Member s of the Supervisor y Board ar e not e ligibl e for any benefi t program s offered by the co mpany (or any beneficiary ) to 
its employees , nor ar e any loans pr o vided. 
Equity-based compensation 
As confirmed in t he remuneration policy , Supervisor y Board member s do no t receive any equity-base d compensatio n. They 
are, however , encourage d to hold privatel y ow ned share s in DSM . At year-end 2021 , Thoma s Leysen held 5,03 5 shares (2020: 
5,035 ) and John Ramsa y held 1,06 8 shares (2020: 1,057) . No other Supervisor y Board member s held compa ny shares at year-
end 2021.  
Remuneratio n ove r time 
The be
low tabl e provide s an overvie w of the total remuneration o f the Supervisor y Board member s over a five-yea r period. 
A comparison o f the de velopme nt of total remuneration compared t o company pe rforma nce i s not provide d, as the 
Supervisor y Board' s total remuneration i s not linked t o company pe rforma nce (Dutch Corporat e Governa nce Code and 
remuneration polic y of the Supervisor y Board Koninklijk e DSM N.V.). 
5-yea r overvie w of th e S upervisor y Boar d remuneration
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 5-years
average¹ 
Thomas Leysen, Chair as of 6 May 2021 113,334 53,520 - - - 
John Ramsay, Dep. Chair as of 6 May 2021 101,167 98,250 97,000 82,450 51,605 
Rob Routs, Chair until 6 May 2021 53,646 128,750 123,125 107,250 107,250 
Pauline van der Meer Mohr, Dep. Chair until 6 May 2021 41,146 98,750 95,208 82,250 82,250 
Eileen Kennedy, Member 98,750 98,750 110,292 90,250 94,250 98,458 
Carla Mahieu, Member as of 6 May 2021 49,729 - - - - 
Erica Mann, Member 91,750 96,750 67,251 - - 
Frits van Paasschen, Member 99,708 96,750 114,125 102,250 68,270 
Pradeep Pant, Member 101,750 96,750 109,125 98,250 102,250 101,625 
Corien Wortmann -Kool, Member as of 6 May 2021  53,520 - - - - 
1   Average only calculated if the respective Supervisory Board member was engaged during five whole years.Report by the Supervisory Board – Remuneration report 202 1 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  174 Closing remarks and shareholder vote 
The 2019 AGM approved the remuneration policy for the Supervisory Board of Koninklijke DSM N.V. (98.45% in favor) as 
well as the remuneration policy for the Managing Board of Koninklijke DSM N.V. (97.48% in favor). The total remuneration 
delivered in 2021 is aligned with the respective remuneration policies: no deviations or derogations applied. As in 202 0, no 
revision or claw-back of any incentives occurred in 2021. 
The remuneration for the financial year 2021, as described in this report, is subject to an advisory vote at the 2022 AGM. 
Questions raised in the 2021 AGM regarding remuneration items were addressed in the respective meeting (reference is 
made to the Q&A document and minutes of that meeting, posted on the company website). As a result, there were no 
specifics raised that needed to be addressed in this Remuneration report. 
Heerlen, 1 March 2022  
The Supervisory Board 
Thomas Leysen, Chair  
John Ramsay, Deputy Chair 
Eileen Kennedy 
Carla Mahieu 
Erica Mann 
Frits van Paasschen 
Pradeep Pant 
Corien Wortmann-Kool Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  175 Information on the DSM share  
Shares and listings  
Ordinary shares  in Koninklijke DSM N.V. are listed on the Euronext s tock exchange  in Amsterdam (Netherlands) (Stock code 
00982, ISIN code NL0000009827). Options  on ordinary DSM shares are traded on the European Option Exchange  in 
Amsterdam (Euronext.liffe). In the US, a sponsored unlisted American Depositary Receipts (ADR) program is offered by 
Deutsche Bank Trust Co. Americas (DR ISIN US7802491081), with four ADRs representing the value of one ordinary DSM 
share.  
Besides the ordinary shares, 44.04 million Cumulative Preference Shares A  (cumprefs A) are in iss ue, which are not listed 
on the stock exchange; these have been placed with institutional investors. The cumprefs A have the same voting rights as 
ordinary shares, as their nominal value of €1.50 per share is equal to the nominal value of the ordinary shar es. 
The dividend percentage  of the cumprefs A is based upon the dividend yield of the ordinary shares (dividend as a 
percentage of the average share price). This percentage may be increased or decreased by a mark -up or discount of no 
more than one hundred (100) basis points, to be determined by the Managing Board in consultation with the Supervisory 
Board. The basis of computation of the dividend on the Cumulative Preference Shares is €5.2942.  
Transfer  of the cumprefs A requires the approval of the Managing  Board, unless the shareholder is obliged by law to 
transfer his shares to a previous shareholder.  
The average number of ordinary shares outstanding  in 20 21 was 172,647,995 . All shares in issue are fully paid. On 31 
December 20 21, the company had 172,968,7 30 ordinary shares outstanding.  
Issue of shares  
The issue of shares  takes place by a decision of the Managing Board. The decision is subject to the approval of the 
Supervisory Board. The scope of this power of the Managing Board shall be determined by a re solution of the General 
Meeting of Shareholders and shall relate to at most all unissued shares of the authorized capital, as applicable now or at 
any time in the future. In the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of 6 May 20 21 this power was extended u p to and 
including 6 November 202 2, on the understanding that this authorization of the Managing Board is limited to a number of 
ordinary shares with a nominal value amounting to 10% of the issued capital at the time of issue, and to an additional 10% 
of the issued capital at the time of issue in connection with a rights issu e. The issue price will be determined by the 
Managing Board and shall as much as possible be calculated on the basis of the trading prices of ordinary shares on the 
Euronext Amsterdam S tock Exchange.  
Distribution of shares  
Under the Dutch Financial Markets Supervision Act, shareholdings of 3% or more  in any Dutch company must be disclosed 
to the Netherlands  Authority for the Financial Markets (AFM). According to the register kept by the AFM, the following 
shareholders had disclosed that they have a direct or indirect (potential) interest between 3% and 10% in DSM's total 
share capital on 31 December 20 21: 
-ASR Nederland N.V.
-BlackRock, Inc.
-Capital Research and Management Company
-NN Group  N.V.
-Rabo Participaties B.V.Information on the DSM share  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  176 Repurchase of own shares  
The company may acquire paid-up own shares  by virtue of a decision of the Managing Board, provided that the par value 
of the acquired shares in its capital amounts to no more than one tenth of the issued capital. Such a decision is subject to 
the approval of the Supervisory Board. In the Annual Ge neral Meeting of Shareholders of 6 May 20 21, the Managing Board 
was authorized to acquire own shares for a period of 18 months from said date (i.e., up to and including 6 November 202 2), 
up to a maximum of 10% of the issued capital, provided that the compa ny will hold no more shares in stock than at 
maximum 10% of the issued capital.  
On 29 April 2021 , DSM announced it had canceled 6.6  million  ordinary shares, thereby concluding the reduction in share 
capital following the share buyback program executed in t he period 1 April 2019 to February 2020. 6,638,971 ordinary shares 
held in treasury since the execution of the share buyback program have been canceled. The total number of issued shares 
is therefore reduced to 218,826,029 (previously 225,465,000), consist ing of 174,786,029 ordinary shares and 44,040,000 
Cumulative Preference Shares A. In accordance with regulatory requirements, DSM has notified the Dutch Authority for the 
Financial Markets (AFM) of the change in its issued share capital.  
In 2021, DSM repur chase d 1,050,000  of its own shares for a total consideration of €165 million  for the purpose of covering 
the company’s commitments under existing share -based compensation plans and shares for stock dividend.  
Development of the number of ordinary DSM shares  
2021 2020 
Issued  Repurchased  Outstanding  Outstanding  
Balance at 1 January  181,425,000  9,205,661  172,219,339  172,448,755  
Changes:  
Cancellation of issued shares  (6,638,971)  (6,638,971)  - - 
Reissue of shares in connection with 
share -based payment plans - (803,049) 803,049  1,460,174  
Repurchase of shares  - 1,050,000 (1,050,000)  (2,876,035)  
Bearer share certificates that have become void  - 7,466 (7,466)  - 
Dividend in the form of ordinary shares  - (1,003,808) 1,003,808  1,186,445  
Balance at 31 December  174,786,029  1,817,299  172,968,730  172,219,339  
DSM share prices on Euronext Amsterdam 
(€ per ordinary share): 
-Highest closing price 199.40  148.55  
-Lowest closing price 136.55  87.52  
-At 31 December 198.00  140.80  
Market capitalization at 31 December (€ million)¹  34,608  25,545  
1 Source: Bloomberg. Information on the DSM share  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  177 Geographical spread of DSM shares outstanding  
in % (excl. cumprefs A)  2021 2020 
North America  35 39 
United Kingdom  17 16 
France  13 12 
Netherlands  11 10 
Nordic  7 6 
Switzerland  6 5 
Germany  5 4 
Asia Pacific  4 4 
Other countries  2 4 
DSM Share price development versus AEX and Dow Jones Euro StoXX Chemical Index  
rebased versus DSM share price  
in € 
Trading volume ordinary DSM shares 2021  
x million shares as reported by Euronext Amsterdam
Information on the DSM share  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  178 Article 10 of Directive 2004/25  
With regard to  the information referred to in the Resolution of article 10  of the EC Directive  pertaining to a takeover bid 
which is required to be provided according to Dutch law, the following can be reported:  
-Information on major shareholdings  can be found above  (Distribution of shares)
-There are no special statutory rights  attached to the shares of the company
-There are no restrictions  on the voting rights  of the company ’s shares. When convening a General Meeting of
Sharehol ders, the Managing Board is entitled to determine a registration date in accordance with the relevant
provisions of the Dutch Civil Code
-The applicable provisions  regarding the appointment and dismissal  of members of the Managing Board and the
Supervisory Board and amendments to the Articles of Association can be found in the section  Corporate
governance and risk management
-The powers  of the Managing Board  regarding the issue and repurchase of shares in the company can be found in
the sections Issue of shares and Repurchase of own shares above
-Other information can be found in the 'Notes to the consolidated financial statements' ( 16 Equity , 19 Borrowings ,
27 Share -based compensation )
Dividend on ordinary shares  
DSM's dividend policy  is to provide a stable and preferably rising dividend. DSM propose s to increase the total dividend on 
ordinary shares by €0.10 to €2.50 per ordinary share  for 2021.  
This will be proposed to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders to be held on 10 May 2022. An interim dividend  of 
€0.80 per ordinary share having been pa id in August 2021, the final dividend would then amount to €1. 70 per ordinary 
share.  
The dividend will be payable in cash  or in the form of ordinary shares  at the option of the shareholder, with a maximum of 
40% of the dividend amount available for stock d ividend. If more than 40% of the total dividend is requested by the 
shareholders to be paid out in shares, those shareholders who have chosen to receive their dividend in shares will receive 
their stock dividend on a pro -rata basis, the remainder being pai d out in cash. Dividend in cash will be paid after 
deduction of 15% Dutch dividend withholding tax. The ex -dividend date is 12 May 202 2. 
Dividend per ordinary DSM share in €  
2021 dividend is subject to approval by Annual General Meeting of Shareholders
Information on the DSM share  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  179 Dividend on Cumulative Preference Shares A  
The Cumulative Preference Shares A  are, in accordance with article 32, section 3, of the Articles of Association, entitled to a 
dividend for the financial year 2021 which is equivalent to the dividend yield of t he ordinary shares over 2021, which will be 
— if the dividend proposal on ordinary shares will be adopted by the AGM on 10 May 2022 — about 1. 52%. This percentage 
may be increased or decreased by a mark -up or discount of no more than one hundred (100) basi s points, to be 
determined by the Managing Board in consultation with the Supervisory Board.  
The Managing Board in consultation with the Supervisory Board has decided to use the maximum mark -up within their 
discretionary option (100 basis points) and to s et the dividend percentage  on the Cumulative Preference Shares A at 2. 52% 
(2020: 2.94%).  
As the basis for the computation of the dividend on the Cumulative Preference Shares A amounts to €5.2942 per share, the 
total dividend  for 2021 amounts to €0.1334 per share . 
An interim dividend  of €0.05 per Cumulative Preference Share A having been paid in August 2021, the final dividend thus 
amounts to €0.0 834 per Cumulative Preference Share A.  
Bearer shares  
On 27 April 2006, all bearer shares  (‘aandelen aan toonder ’) in DSM ’s issued share capital were converted into registered 
shares  (‘aandelen op naam ’) (pursuant to an amendment of the Articles of Association made at the time). In order to 
exercise the rights vested in the shares, holders of former bearer shares were required to hand in their bearer share 
certificates ( ‘aandeelbewijzen ’) to DSM.  
Pursuant to an amendment of Section 2:82 of the Dutch Civil Code (DCC) in 2019, DSM shareholders who still have not 
handed in their bearer share certificates  will lose any entitlement to exchange their bearer share certificates for a 
replacement share as per 2 January 2026.  
In accordance with Section 2:391(2) DCC, DSM hereby gives notice of the following:  
(i) A shareholder may not exercise the rights vested in a share until after he/she has handed in his/her bearer share
certificates to DSM.
(ii) A bearer share certificate which was not handed in to DSM on or before 31 December 2020 has become void and the
share represented by the bearer share certificate has been  acquired by DSM for no consideration, irrespective of whether
DSM's Articles of Association allow the acquisition of its own shares. Section 2:98a (3) DCC does not apply to this
acquisition. DSM sh all be registered as the shareholder thereof in DSM ’s shareholders register. DSM shall hold the shares
until the end of the period mentioned in (iii) below.
(iii) A shareholder who hands in a bearer share certificate to DSM no later than five years after t he acquisition mentioned
in (ii) above, therefore no later than 1 January 2026, is entitled to receive from DSM a replacement registered share
provided that this share is registered in DSM’s shareholders register in the name of a central securities deposit ory, and
DSM will instruct the shareholder’s bank to credit the share in a securities account in the name of holder of the bearer
share certificate.
The procedure described above follows from Section 2:82(3) up to and including (9) DCC, whose provisions ap ply. Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  180 Sustainability statements  
Stakeholder engagement  
In the following pages, we present some examples of how we engage with external stakeholders, including the partners in 
our value chain. For an overview of all our stakeholders, see  Stakeholders . For information on how we engage with our 
employees, s ee People . For historical information on our sustainability performance, please see the five-year summary – 
sustainability tables  and the company w ebsite . 
Customers  
Our customers are the key stakeholders for our business , and we engage with them closely through our Business Groups. 
The ongoing COVID -19 pandemic a nd external developments has challenged the traditional approaches for customer 
interaction. Despite this, we aspire to continually strengthen our relationship and intimacy with them.  
Measuring customer loyalty with our Net Promotor Score  
Customer loyalty  and satisfaction starts with understanding our customers, their needs and their journey when interacting 
with us. Against the backdrop of the disruptions caused by COVID -19, we continued to invest in strengthening our customer 
relationships. We measure cu stomer loyalty and satisfaction through the Net Promoter Score  (NPS) methodology (both 
relational and transactional) — the voice of the customer. This enables us to continuously improve our product and service 
offering toward  our customers.  
In 2021, our NP S improved to 51 (2020: 50 , 2016: 38 ) as a result of the strong collaboration  and strengthened relationships  
throughout the year. This is the sixth consecutive year -on-year improvement  where  our sales , service and business teams 
have been able to manage th e close customer relation so important for the success of our business.   
For information on how we engage with our customers through our business, see Nutrition , Materials  and Innovation . 
Suppliers  
The DSM Sustainable Procurement Program  
As sustainability is a fundamental and integral part of our way of doing business, we must ensure that, working jointly 
with our suppliers, we deliver on our promise  to reduce our environmental footprint and improve lives for people today 
and generations to come through our activities, products, solutions and innovations.  
Our Sustainable Procurement Program comprises the following elements:  
-Supplier development and e valuation program , in which we focus on assessing, auditing and further improving our
suppliers’ sustainability performance by actively developing and following up on corrective actions
-Our Scope 2 program  for reducing greenho use gas emissions from purchased electricity
-Our Scope 3 program  for reducing greenhouse gas emissions throughout our value chain, where we are working
together with our suppliers on our collective carbon footprint and emiss ions
-A sustainable decarbonization of heat via the procurement of renewable fuels
Supplier Sustainability Evaluation  
2021 2020 
Spend coverage SCoC  95% 93% 
EcoVadis assessments  411 351 
Together for Sustainability audits  8 14 
Spend on local suppliers¹  62% -
1   For continuing operations only. Local supplier is defined where the supplier country is equal to the purchasing location’s country.  Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  181 Sustainability statements 
 The business principles most relevant for the supply chain are brought together in the Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC) 
and structured along the three sustainability dimensions of People, Planet and Profit. The Supplier Code of Conduct 
(available on the DSM Supplier Website in eight languages) forms the basis on how we choose to do business and interact 
with our suppliers.  
In 2021, we met our target level of 95% of our supplier spend covered by the SCoC. Through Together for Sustainability 
assessments and audits, we check that suppliers  act in compliance with our  norms and values.  When suppliers cannot 
meet our expectations, we will work with them to define and execute an improvement plan.  
Assessing sustainability in our supply chain 
At DSM, we understand that connecting across complex value chains is not easy and requires strong collaboration. That is 
why we are a member of the Together for Sustainability (TfS) initiative. TfS aims to develop and implement a global 
supplier engagement program that assesses and improves sust ainability practices  in both environmental and social terms. 
This network grew further in 2021 by new members and celebrated its ten-year anniversary in 2021. We are active in 
several workstreams within TfS. More information about this program can be found on our company website.  
In 2021, we continued our focus on driving improvement to sup port sustainability development in the value chain . Although 
value chains are complex and continued to be affected by COVID-19, sustainability development was kept in focus. We 
assessed 411 suppliers in 2021 through TfS, of which 373 were re-assessments, and. 65% of our re-assessed suppliers 
received an improved sustainability score, compared to 60% last year, which indicates that our suppliers are further 
engaging in sustainability.  
On-site audits  were heavily impacted by contact and travel restrictions in various regions on the globe throughout the year 
because of COVID-19 . We performed fewer face-to -face audits in the more traditional manner while taking care of 
COVID-1 9 precautions. In 2020, we had piloted the first virtual audits through the TfS platform . The virtual audit used 
technology to conduct the audit, assessment, inspection, and oversight from a remote location. In evaluation, the virtual 
audit was perceived as comparable to a physical audit . However, the virtual aspect lacked typical physical experiences 
such as the perception of odor, or direct human interactions with the company. We consider that this type of audit is most 
suitable for follow-up audits and we do not consider this type of audit to be suitable for all suppliers. Technical 
capabilities as well as reliable, fast internet connections are essential to execute a successful virtual audit. Through TfS, we 
are exploring the further use of virtual audits besides the regular audits. 
Capabilities to enhance and drive sustainability 
Close collaboration with our strategic supply partners is key to bring our sustainability to the next level. Building 
capabilities and driving sustainability is closely connected to having subject-matter trainings available both for suppliers 
and our employees. We are actively contributing through assessments and audits, while participating in TfS workstreams 
to shape future supplier demands. Lastly, integrating sustainability as part of day-t o-day business is expedited by having 
accessibility to all relevant data while on the job. 
We played an active role in several workstreams in the TfS-initiative, such as governance & partnerships . Here, new 
memberships and the sharing of best practice across TfS are addressed. Besides this, we shared our view and experience 
regarding scope 3 program development in the newly inaugurated workstream on scope 3.  
We actively support and utilize training opportunities given by the TfS initiative for our supply base as well as for our 
sourcing community. Three supplier training webinars designed to fit the time zones of North America, Latin America and 
Europe were shared in local languages. The aim of the webinars was to provide a deeper understanding of the TfS program , 
equip our suppliers with the understanding of how to utilize the Corrective Action Plan Tool and the action points 
following an assessment. The webinars attracted a high level of participation. 
Further internal trainings in sustainability continued to be provided to our sourcing community. Three trainings were 
offered on the use of practical tools for integrating sustainabili ty into the daily work of sourcing professionals, specifically 
on sustainable procurement , assessments and audits , and scope 3 . These trainings are mandatory to relevant sourcing 
roles and aim to equip our colleagues with the necessary understanding to engage in relevant sustainability conversations 
with our suppliers.  Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  182 Sustainability statements 
To improve steering of sustainability in our supply chain, we launched a first prototype of a fully automated internal 
dashboard combining all available assessments and audits per strategic supplier. This increased transparency permits the 
tracking of supplier sustainability status and developments . The improved data accessibility will enable better 
incorporation of sustainability considerations into sourcing strategies and supplier selection.  
Since 2021, the concept of sustainable tender has been included in all strategic sourcing projects withi n global logistics 
and packaging . With sustainable tender in the supplier selection process, we will be able to identify sustainable solutions 
from our suppliers, differentiate suppliers in terms of sustainable behavior, and influence the supply market. 
Stakeholder engagement 
In addition to working with our suppliers, we also work with external partners to enhance collaboration in the supply 
chain . These partners include Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), Friends of the Sea, and the Marine Stewardship 
Council. 
Taking steps toward sustainable palm oil derivatives 
We are actively taking steps to reduce deforestation by sourcing ingredients such as palm oil derivatives in a more 
sustainable way. For example, we are a member of the RSPO — a not-for-profit, multi-stakeholder organization aimed at 
making sustainable palm oil the market norm. We aim to have RSPO certification for all of our major production sites that 
use palm oil derivatives. Through our company, DSM Nutritional Products, we are a member of RSPO. DSM Food Specialties 
and DSM Nutritional Products met their objective to use 100% RSPO certified sustainable palm oil products using RSPO 
‘Mass Balance’, ‘ Segregated ’ and ‘Book and Claim ’ supply chain models by 2021. For more information o n our use of palm 
oil, see the company website.   
Responsibly sourced marine resources  
Protecting our marine environment is important to us as a company. We are committed to the responsible and sustainable 
use of natural marine resources. We have ‘Friends of the Sea’ certification for all our fish oil purchases. This helps ensure 
that the fisheries involved in providing fish oil to produce our omega-3 product range are sustainable. Furthermore, we 
had alrea dy successfully attained 100% Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) certificatio n for all our tuna oil suppliers in 
2020. We are proud to partner with the MSC, the global gold standard for certification a nd eco-labeling of seafood, to offer 
MEG- 3® tuna DHA oils and powders that are MSC Chain of Custody (CoC) certified. This certification guarantees ‘ocean to 
purchase’ traceability throughout the entire supply chain, providing assurance that our tuna DHA products can be easily 
trace d to certified fisheries. 
The BICEPS network 
Our Global Logistics and Packaging team has connected with other shippers and industry bodies to advocate sustainability 
in the international transport market . Together, we formed the BICEPS Network, a network with the aim to reduce the CO2 
emissions of the carriers. This led to an internationally verified rating system that provides an industry-recognized 
sustainability ranking of shipping lines and enables us to reward sustainable behavior. 
Supplier projects 
As part of our drive to foster better business through our supplier projects, our Procurement organization engages in 
proactive dialogue with suppliers  to move the business agenda forward. In this context, DSM Sourcing pursues initiatives 
to create joint value, awareness and engagement regarding innovation, greenhouse gas emissions reduction and 
renewable electricity projects. 
Supplier engagement  is important to us. During 2021, in-dept h discussions took place as part of our scope 3 supplier 
engagement program, CO2REDUCE, which addressed well over 50 suppliers across all businesses. More information on this 
program can be found in Scope 3 emissions . 
In addition, we presented our sustainability story during company-wide events of some of our strategic suppliers , such as 
during the launch of a supplier’s sustainability program. These presentations demonstrated to a wider company audience 
the necessity and pull for sustainability from a customer’s perspective. We received positive feedback, helping to drive 
further engagement with these suppliers.  Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  183 Sustainability statements 
Every year, the DSM Procurement community presents awards to teams who have develope d successful projects i n various 
categories, with sustainability as a key selection criterion. The case outcomes should positively contribute to the 
commercial results  of a DSM business unit or service unit and be exemplary in adjacent fields such as sustainability, 
digitization, or innovation. In 2021, more than 45 entries participated in the award. The winner was the Global steam trap 
monitoring initiative , which realized energy savings and CO2 reductions through online and wireless monitoring of the 
steam traps in our facilities. Our key supplier, Emerson Automation Solutions , applied the results by means of their 
developed technology and capabilities for global roll-out. 
In 2021, hybrid working and the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic led to a permanent shift towar d working from home. Our 
employees require ergonomic furniture a nd IT accessories in their homes to prevent long-term occupational injuries and 
allow for more efficient and convenient day-to-day work. We designed a n effective sourcing strategy based on a 
sustainable tendering process with clear additional requirements regarding self-service capability, customized support, 
and digital solutions. The contracted supplier also provided a sustainable solution for our ‘old’ DSM furniture through 
refurbishing and re-use. Digital tooling enabled employees to order their tailored home-workplace package online. This 
program was rolled out in the Netherlands, Switzerla nd and the United States. 
Investors 
We value the essential contribution our capital providers make t o our success and prosperity, allowing us t o pursue a 
long-term oriented, purpose-led, performance-driven strategy. This should als o lead t o a continuous increase of the 
company’s valuation for the benefit of its shareholders and provide a low risk profile for our debt holders. We see the 
focus of our capital providers increasingly moving beyond returns on financial capital and including considerations of 
environmental, human and social impact in their decisions. 
Transparent communication with financial markets 
We ensure that accurate financial and relevant non-financial information is communicated to the financial markets in a 
transparent a nd simultaneous way. All information is made easily accessible to the public via the company website. 
Besides the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders , we also reach out to the financial markets through events such as 
our Investor Days, participation i n (virtual) investor conferences a nd by organizing (virtual) roadshows. We actively seek 
engagement with financial advisors  who cover DSM on behalf of their financial market clients, such as brokers, credit 
rating agencies, proxy advisors, shareholder representative organizations, and ESG (Environment, Social, Governance) 
rating agencies.  
Feedback from the financial markets is periodically discussed a nd assessed by the Managing Board a nd the Supervisory 
Board. We highly value the insights gained through these engagements. 
We engage with our investors and their representatives on topics such as the SDGs, climate change, biodiversity, 
governance, sustainability in supply chain management, human rights, inclusion a nd diversity, and responsible taxation. 
Updating investors on our strategic progress 
During 2021, we continued to update the market on our progress against our strategic targets a nd sustainability ambitions 
and the progress of our large sustainability-driven innovatio n projects .  
We focused our reporting on giving full integrated disclosure on financial and non-financial performance at half-year and 
full year, while limiting first-quarter and third-quarter reporting to a trading update . This reflects the consideration of 
long-term value drivers  which are critical to the success of our company.  
Due to COVID-19, the financial markets continued to be impacted by uncertainty and volatility during 2021. We intensified 
direct virtual contact with our investors in order to keep them all informed about business conditions how we were 
managing COVID-19, and its effects on our operations.  
At our half-year reporting, we made a deeper dive into how we can make farming more sustainable. In September, we 
presente d the re-alignment of our organization as  a Health, Nutrition & Bioscience company and outline d how we can Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  184 Sustainability statements 
make a positive impact on planet, people and livelihoods via our Food System Commitments , which are linked to the UN 
Sustainable Development Goals. 
In 2021, our Investor Relations program was ranke d number one in its sector by Institutional Investor Research  and 
received highest recognition  for its investor communication, responsiveness to the capital markets, business and market 
know-how, authority and credibility, virtual roadshow program, virtual investor event and quality of earning calls.  
Engaging with the market about purpose and ESG 
Purpose and profit go hand in ha nd at DSM, which has been demonstrated by a continuing strong performance in terms of 
both financial and non-financial metrics. In 2021, we actively advocate d purpose-drive n entrepreneurship among our 
shareholders. We engaged with investors, including pensio n funds , to discuss their responsibility in long-term value 
creation for their customers, but also for the society and the environment their participants live in. We actively 
participated i n investor initiatives  including the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) , Future-
Proof Business and the FCLT (Focusing Capital to the Long Term), in their ‘Multi-stakeholder in practice ’ project, 
encouraging a longer-term focus in business and investment decision-making. 
We are committed to staying ahead in sustainability reporting a nd ensuring we report against new and future 
requirements of regulating authorities including the EU Sustainable Finance Action Plan , EU Green deal , EU Taxonomy , EU 
Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive and Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation (SFDR). We emphasize the 
need to make reporting metrics uniform, comparable and auditable. 
We continued our engagement with leading ESG Ratings and Benchmarks advisors to the financial sector, including 
Sustainalytics, MSCI, Moody’s -Vigeo and ISS-ESG . 
In 2021, we saw an increased focus in our engagement dialogues on nature and biodiversity , as well as social topics 
including human rights, inclusion a nd diversity. 
We again saw the number of direct engagements between investors and DSM on ESG topics, including SDG impact, increase 
in 2021. ESG has become part of the regular agenda of our investor meetings. Being recognized as a leader in sustainability 
and at the same time showing continued good financial progress, we were frequently invited for in-dept h engagement 
calls and meetings on how to include — and compare — important non-financial parameters in our investor’s  investment 
processes. 
At the end of 2021, 87% of our shares held by institutional investors were held by signatories of the Principles for 
Responsible Investment (PRI investors) and 17% of our outstanding shares at institutional investors were in dedicated 
sustainability funds . 
Society 
We engage with society at multiple levels — from local community initiatives t o collaborations with universities and 
research institutes. Due t o the ongoing effects of the pandemic, many of our regular engagements were postponed, or 
moved online, such as our annual Earth Day activities. We continue t o engage in philanthropic and sponsorship activities 
to the average yearly amount of approximately € 6 million, as well as the in-kind contributions of our employees’ hours 
and expertise .  
Supporting personal development and communities in need i n Brazil 
Our partnership with the Municipal Department of Education of Mairinque offered young people insights into their 
professional future, and provided relevant skills training. The Gastromotiva partnership provides students with 
professional training to become entrepreneurs or chefs. We continued to support communities in need through our 
volunteer programs and donations of food items, hygiene products and other essential items. 
Maintaining engagement on malnutrition a nd schooling in China 
For the 14th year, the DSM Bright Experience campaign was held in China to raise funds and increase awareness on 
eradicating malnutrition a nd hunger in China. It was held jointly with UN WFP and China Foundation for Poverty Alleviation Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  185 Sustainability statements 
(CFPA). Our support of the DSM Hope School in Lintao (Gansu province) continued, with scholarships awarded to 155 
students to support their study a nd home life. 
Advocating on nutrition in Japan 
In the context of the Tokyo Nutrition for Growth Summit (N4G) 2021, we hosted a number of online events on the 
importance of nutrition. At the 3rd DSM Japan Sustainability Forum , we hosted an online event titled ‘Sustainable Food 
System, Nutrition a nd Health – Creating Healthy Planet for Healthy People ’. Later in the year, together with the Ajinomoto 
Group , the effectiveness of school meals for improving children’s nutrition was discussed, and what role the private sector, 
together with regional governments and international organizations, ca n play in supporting school meal programs. 
Addressing vitamin D deficiency in India 
The campaign ‘ Boost your ImmuniD’ was launched in India to underline the need for adequate levels of vitamin D. Despite 
being a sun-rich country, 80% of India’s population face vitamin D deficiency. The campaign highlighted the role of vitamin 
D for good health a nd immune function. 
Supporting safety, health a nd well-being in the Netherlands 
In the province of Limburg (Netherlands), DSM and regional stakeholders launched the regional Food Boost Challenge 
platform to engage young people on the subject of healthy nutrition a nd lifestyle choices. After the flooding in the same 
province, we offered shelter to impacted employees in our headquarters.  
Highlighting nutrition a nd sustainability in Singapore 
The inaugural event of the Bright Science & Technology Hub brought our customers, government agencies and food-tech 
start-ups together to discuss trends and breakthroughs in nutrition, sustainability and technology. Through the DSM SMU-X 
(Singapore Management University) Sustainability Challenge , students were given the opportunity to explore supply chain 
and consumer-side challenges in nutrition a nd sustainability through real-world business challenges. 
Addressing food a nd the future in Switzerland 
At a seminar organized by the Dutch Embassy in Basel (Switzerland) on food loss and waste, we looked into how food- and 
feed-additives can improve the sustainability of the dairy industry. On Zukunftstag ( ‘Future Day’), we opened our Swiss 
offices to our employees’ children, allowing them to see at first ha nd what we do and what drives us. 
Engaging on community and climate in the US 
In 2021, we were active in addressing issues concerning child care through editorials and congressional briefings, and 
championed inclusion & diversity through our leadership roles in the National Diversity Council . We continue to support 
the Union Country College Foundation Close the Gap initiative , which is being replicated to support other communities. We 
participated i n Congressional Meetings to support climate change mitigation a nd a price on carbon legislation. 
Furthermore, we lead numerous business coalitions to support climate change mitigation actions. Through our DSM North 
America Employee Relief Fund, we also provided financial support to dozens of our colleagues who suffered property 
damage as a result of climate-induced natural disasters such as hurricanes, floods, blizzards and fires. Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  186 Notes to the Sustainability statements  
1 Management approach  for material topic s 
In the following sections , we elaborate on the material topics defined in the Materiality matrix  and describe how we 
manage these topics.  
Environment  
Climat e mitigation  
This topic addresses reducing energy use and greenhouse gas emissions in our own operations, increasing the share of 
energy coming from renewable sources and developing solutions to support our customers in reducing carbon footprint 
across the ir value chains to enable the transition to a low carbon economy . 
Management approach : We manage this topic by improving our own carbon footprint, enabling our customers through 
innovative solutions and advocating actions toward a low -carbon future. We publicly disclose our impact and strategy via 
this Report, CDP and others.  Through our Food  System Commitments, we commit to enable on -farm livestock emissions 
reductions.  
For information on this topic, see:  
Our approach to the Sustainable Development Goals  
Strategy  
Collaborative platforms and networks  
Climate mitigation  
Review of business  
Climate adaptation  
This topic addresses p reparing for the physical and t ransition risks and opportunities associated with changing climate 
by ensuring operational procedures are flexible and resilient . 
Management approach : We manage this topic through identifying our exposure to climate risks through our physical and 
transitio n risk assessments. The outcome of these assessments is reviewed and validated with our businesses, sites and 
other relevant functions. We publicly disclose our impact and strategy via this Report, CDP and others.  
For information on this topic, see:  
Our approach to the Sustainable Development Goals  
Strategy  
Collaborative platforms and networks  
Climate adaptation  
Review of business  
Waste  & circularity  
This topic covers r educing waste in our operations and across value chain partners by enabling closed loop solutions 
with a focus on renewable and bio -based materials . 
Management approach : We manage this topic by improving the value extracted from the limited resources that are 
available, enabling the transition to a circular and bio -based economy through our solutions and advocating a shift away 
from a linear to a circular and bio -based economy.  Notes to the Sustainability statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  187 For information on this topic, see:  
Our approach to the Sustainable Development Goals  
Strategy  
Collaborative pl atforms and networks  
Waste & circularity  
Planet  
Review of business  
Nature & b iodiversit y 
Nature & biodiversity refers to the protection of natural capital and ecosystems, including the variety and variability of 
life on earth and addressing issues such as land degradation, nature loss and ocean pollution.  
Management approach : Nature & b iodiversity is a global issue that is locally relevant , and that potentially  has impact  on 
our operational locations. The DSM Responsible Care Plan defines how we monitor and assess the impact of our 
operations on these locations. We support the ambitions of the Convention on Biological Diversity and we continue  to 
explore the role the Natural Capital Protocol can play in supporting our decision making. Through our Food System 
Commitments, we commit to reach people with nutritious, delicious, sustainably produced plant -based foods.  
Our position paper on Biodivers ity can be found on the company website.  
For information on this topic, see:  
Nature & biodiversity  
Biodiversity position paper  
Water stewardship  
Water is essential to life and all ecosystems. As water is becoming a scarcer resource, both the quality and quantity of 
available water constitute a global issue that has local consequences  that may extend  from w ater scarcity to floods and 
storms.  
Management approach : We are committed to the sustainable  use of water. Our approach is defined in the DSM 
Responsible Care Plan , with the ambition to improve our water withdrawal efficiency in water -stressed areas . Water  is not 
a primary ingredient in our products, and w e believe that water risks are local by nature, so we focus on local water risk 
assessments and thorough follow -up on these. We are a signatory to the UN Global Compact CEO Water Mandate and 
disclose our w ater management and strategy via CDP.  
For information on this topic, see:  
Water stewardship  
Social  
Food security  
This topic is part of  the transition to sustainable food systems within planetary boundaries that is needed to secure the 
future availability of food. It includes d eveloping sustainable solutions that will contribute to enabling to feed and 
nurture the growing global populatio n. 
Management approach : We manage this topic by enabling healthy food systems through our Nutrition businesses, which 
target health and well -being . We advocate for a change in food systems within planetary boundaries.  Through our Food 
System Commitments, w e commit to help close the micronutrient gap of vulnerable people  
For information on this topic, see:  
Our approach to the Sustainable Development Goals  
Strategy  Notes to the Sustainability statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  188  Collaborative platforms & networks  
Review of business  
Sustainable agriculture  
This topic is part of the transition to sustainable food systems within planetary boundaries that is needed to secure th e 
future availability of food. It covers w orking closely with farmers to improve the sustainable standards of food 
production and protect their livelihoods.  
Management approach : We manage this topic by enabling healthy food systems through our Nutrition bu sinesses, which 
target sustainable agriculture . We advocate for a change in food systems within planetary boundaries.  Through our Food 
System Commitments, we commit to enable on -farm livestock emissions reductions and to support the livelihoods of 
smallhol der farmers.  
For information on this topic, see:  
Our approach to the Sustainable Development Goals  
Strategy  
Collaborative platforms & networks  
Review of business  
Healthy diets & nutritious food  
This topic is part of the transition to sustainable food systems within planetary bou ndaries that is needed to secure the 
future availability of food. It addresses p roviding solutions that contribute to good nutrition and healthy diets for all. 
This includes enabling affordable nutrition and ensuring tasty and delicious food is available a nd low in elements 
contributing to non -communicable diseases.  
Management approach : We manage this topic by enabling healthy food systems through our Nutrition businesses, which 
target sustainable agriculture . We advocate for a change in food systems within  planetary boundaries.  Through our Food 
System Commitments, we commit to supporting the immunity of people and reaching people with nutritious, delicious, 
sustainably produced plant -based foods.  
For information on this topic, see:  
Our approach to the Sustainable Development Goals  
Strategy  
Collaborative platforms & networks  
Review of business  
Talent att raction  & development  
This topic refers to the continuous development of employees ’ skills through training and development programs, and 
the company ’s ability to attract  and retain talent in order to execute the business strategy . 
Management approach : Talent attraction  & development fuels the growth of our employees and leaders, which in turn 
enable s our overall growth as an organization. Through  our People & Organization strategy , we aim to reset the context for 
leadership to create an inspiring, empoweri ng and inclusive environment for our people and our business, and to 
empower our people with the tools and an environment that enables them to take ownership of their performance, 
development and careers.  
For information on this topic, see:  
Delivering on our P&O strategy  Notes to the Sustainability statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  189  Occupational health , safety  & well -being  
Occupational health , safety & well -being addresses the company ’s ability to create and maintain a safe and healthy 
workplace environment that is free of injuries, fatalities, and illness (both chronic and acute) , and to take care of our 
employees’ well -being at work . 
Management approach : The occupational health , safety and well -being of all our employees and contractors is our highest 
priority. Our approac h to safety is defined in the DSM Responsible Care Plan and is spearheaded by our Life Saving Rules. 
We apply an occupational health model whereby we strive to minimize exposure to potential health risks .  
For information on this topic, see:  
Safety  
Health & well -being  
Human rights  
This topic encompasses decent working conditions for DSM employees, suppliers and other partners across the value 
chain. It addresses  subjects incl uding  freedom of association, non -discrimination, the prohibition of child labor and 
forced labor, and fair compensation.  
Management approach : DSM has installed a cross -functional Human Rights Steering Committee and working group to 
manage our approach tow ard human rights , which is defined in our position paper. Our whistleblower policy (DSM Alert) is 
available for employees and external stakeholders to report potential violations of human rights.  
For information on this topic, see:  
Human rights  
DSM Code of Business Conduct  
Suppliers  
Human Rights position  paper  
Whistleblower policy – DSM Alert  
Employee inclusion  & diversity  
This topic revolves around equal opportunities, in particular ensuring that our company culture and hiring and 
promotion practices embrace the building of an inclusive and diverse workforce that reflects the makeup of local talent 
pools and its customer base . 
Management approach : We focus  our activities on increasing the representation of women and the under -represented 
nationality diversity of our executive population and management pipeline. We have five diversity pillars  – Gender, Race, 
Ethnicity & National Identity, LGBTQ+, Disability and Generations  - which are supported by Employee Resource Groups. Our 
focus areas are in recruitment, development, and inclusion. Employee inclusion & diversity is addressed through our 
Inclusion & Diversity (I&D) network, led by our I&D Council.  Our empl oyees are trained on Respectful behavior to 
emphasize the importance of inclusiveness and diversity and to prevent inappropriate behavior including sexual 
harassment.  
For information on this topic, see:  
Inclusion  & Diversity  
Delivering on our P&O strategy  
DSM Code of Business Conduct  Notes to the Sustainability statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  190  Business & Governance  
Sustainable i nnovation  
This topic refers to the company ’s technology capabilities and research &  development investments to develop 
innovative, sustainable solutions.  
Management approach : Our innovation and research & development capa bilities support us in achieving our growth 
targets. Through collaborations and partnerships , we bring new thinking and new solutions into the company. Through our 
venturing activities, we invest in emerging innovative companies around the world.  We aim to  maintain innovation sales at 
a level of around 20%.  
For information on this topic, see:  
Innovation  
Business ethics & transparency  
This topic addresses the company ’s approach to and public disclosure on ethical and fair busin ess conduct, corporate 
governance and compliance. This includes taxation, privacy, bioethics, fraud, bribery & corruption , and fiduciary 
responsibilities.  
Management approach : We take our responsibilities as a business seriously. Our approach to ethics and  transparency is 
led by the DSM Code of Business Conduct and our Supplier Code of Conduct. Our whistleblower policy (DSM Alert) supports 
our employees and third parties in expressing their concerns about suspected misbehavior. DSM’s tax position is 
consist ent with the normal course of our business operations and reflects the corporate strategy as well as the geographic 
spread of our activities. It is available through our position paper. We transparently report on our business through this 
Report and our pu blic statements.  
For information on this topic, see:  
DSM Code of Business Conduct  
Corporate governance and risk management  
DSM Alert policy  
Taxation position paper  
Cybersecurity  
Preventing  fraud and the unauthorized access to our networks, IT systems and data, while ensuring company and 
employee data protection.  
Management approach : Cybersecurity is managed by Operations & Responsible Care. Awareness on cybersecurity is 
addressed through the Security e -learning covering our key security behaviors and the Cyber Fraud Awareness e -learning. 
Global, as well as targeted, phishing tests ar e regularly carried out to ensure our people stay alert.  
For information on this topic, see:  
Sustainability Governance Framework  
DSM Code of Business Conduct  
Digital tr ansformation  
Digital transformation refers to the application of digital technologies to all aspects of business and society.  
Management approach : Our Data Analytics Center of Excellence and Digital Acceleration Group will support us in the 
acceleration of digital insights and solutions. Digital solutions also support and strengthen our customer relationships. We 
monitor and mitigate potential risks relating to digital through Group Risk Management. Our Information Security Office 
and Privacy Policy guide our approach toward the security of information assets.  Notes to the Sustainability statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  191  For information on this topic, see:  
People  
Risk management  
Product stewardship  
Product stewardship manages and minimizes the environmental, safety and health impacts of substances in our products 
in line with international regulations from raw materials selection, production process, during use, until end -of-life. It is 
about knowing the substances we use and produce, being able to explain why we use them, taking the appropriate risk 
control measures, and sharing this information with relevant and interested stakeholders.  
Management a pproach : Our product stewardship statement describes our approach on this topic. We assess our products 
and report on the process of substances of concern in our sales . We take a risk -based approach to product stewardship 
and will use alternatives where fe asible, and always where required. We also see the opportunities for safer products with 
fewer or no hazardous properties in the circular economy.  
For information on this topic, see:  
Product stewardship  
Product stewardship on the company website  
Consumer behavior & activism  
Addressing changes in consumer behavior and awareness by manufacturing products that consider future needs of 
society and the environment.  
Management approach : Consumer behavior & activism can be both a risk and an opportunity to the company. We 
recognize shifts in business models, industry and end -consumer behavior, and the ability to respond to changes in our 
emerging risks. We have shifted our innovation approach to be platform based, and have identified four growth themes 
that align to our future strategic needs and support our growth ambitions. These themes align to major  global societal, 
technological and environmental trends.  
For information on this topic, see:  
Our focus in i nnovation   
Innovation  
Risk management  
2 EU Taxon omy  
The EU Taxonomy  
The 2018 EU action plan on financing sustainable growth  sets out a n EU strategy for sustainable finance with the aim of 
redirecting capital flows. In this plan, an EU classification system  was established to determine which economic act ivities 
qualify as sustainable. This sustainability classification system is generally referred to  as the EU Taxonomy and it is part of 
the EU's overall efforts to reach the objectives of the European Green Deal  and make Europe climate -neutral by 2050.  
The EU Taxonomy entered into force on 12 July 2020, establishing criteria for environmentally sustainable economic 
activities  related to six environmental objectives. The taxonomy regulation also amended the EU Accounting Directive  
(2013/34/EU) on non -financial information by expanding the scope of content that needs to be disclosed by large 
companies  in the Management Report. It requires companies to disclose the proportion of their a ctivities that qualify as 
environmentally sustainable.  
The di sclosure requirements are set out in a Delegated Act under Article 8(4) of the Taxonomy Regulation  (published 6 July 
2021). These disclosure requirements will be fully in force for reporting year 2022, and limited disclosures are requested fo r 
2021. F or th e reporting period 2021, companies  shall provide information on the proportion of taxonomy -eligible and 
taxonomy non -eligible economic activities  in their total activities  using  the KPIs turnover , capital expenditure , and Notes to the Sustainability statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  192 operational expenditure , as well a s qualitative information. Therefore, we have assessed our economic activities for 
eligibility in relation to the first two environmental objectives per the EU Taxonomy. Furthermore, we assessed if we have 
information available to provide disclosures on th e proportions using the financial KPIs.  
The first Delegated Act with climate objectives  aims to identify those industries that can make the largest contribution 
toward a carbon -neutral society . These include energy, selected manufacturing activities, trans port and buildings. As a 
Health, Nutrition & Bioscience company, we concluded that the majority of our  core economic activities  are not covered by 
the Climate Delegated Act, and consequently, we are not in the primary scope of industries  that are relevant to the two 
climate -related objectives.  
The outcome of the below assessment indicates the parts of our current activities  that are in scope for the first two 
environmental objectives that relate to climate mitigation  and climate adaptation . 
Our eligibility  for the first two environmental objectives  
Based on the standard table as provided in the EU taxonomy, DSM reports the following for 2021:  
(in € million)  NACE -codes Taxonomy Activity Turnover¹  CAPEX  OPEX  Category 
A1 Eligible 
and Aligned n.a. in 2021 n.a. in 2021  n.a. in 2021  n.a. in 2021 n.a. in 2021
A2 Eligible  20.16 - Production 
of Primary Plastics 3.17 Production of 
Primary  Plastics 1,600 (17%) -² -² Transition
Total Eligible Activities 1,600 (17%) -² -²
BNon -Eligible Non-eligible 
activities 7,604 (83%)  - - 
A + B Total Total economic 
activities 9,204  (100%)  1,036³  -⁴
1 Based on continuing operations as reported on the face of the income statement in the financial statements 
2 The initial legislative texts only included criteria for ‘aligned CAPEX and OPEX’. On 2 February 2022, the Commission published more 
guidance on eligible CAPEX and OPEX. We will assess the impact in 2022 and re-evaluate our future disclosures. 
3 Total CAPEX is determined based on the 2021 additions to property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, and additions to right-o f-
use assets. See Note 8 and Note 9 in the Consolidated financial statements. 
4   We cannot provide total OPEX as defined by the EU taxonomy as this information cannot be made available at the required  
aggregation level at this stage.  
We welcome the implementation of the EU Taxonomy and we have assessed its impact on our company in line with its 
overall objectives, albeit accepting tha t parts of the Taxonomy Regulation are subject to interpretation, which may lead to 
variety in its application. Considering the level of complexity as well as the evolving character of the framework, we expect  
that Taxonomy reporting will develop over time . We will periodically revalidate our methodology and our reported KPIs 
based on the evolution of the regulations and forthcoming guidance from, amongst others, the European Commission and 
the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA).  
More information on our strategy and sustainability commitments can be found in the sections on Delivering a long -term, 
purpose -led, positive impact , and the DSM Responsible Care Plan . For more information on our climate risk assessment, 
our ambitions and actions, including our path to reduce emissions by 2030 please refer to Climate adaptation  and 
Climate -related risks . 
3 Taskforce  on Climate -related  Financial  Disclosures  (TCFD)  
The TCFD recommendations are a set of voluntary, climate -related financial disclosures  for use by companies to provide 
information to their stakeholders. We were among the first c ompanies to commit to implementing, as fully as practicable, 
these recommendations as outlined in the TCFD's implementation path. The recommendations are structured around four Notes to the Sustainability statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  193 elements ‒ Governance , Strategy , Risk Management , and Metrics and Targets . This  Report includes various disclosures 
relevant for the TCFD recommendations. To highlight this, for each TCFD theme reference is made to relevant sections.  
Governance  
Sustainability, including climate -related risks & opportunities, is a direct responsibility of the Managing Board . The 
Managing Board is supported in this by advice from our external Sustainability Ad visory Board and reports on progress to 
the Supervisory Board, via its Sustainability Committee . 
Our approach toward assessing and managing climate -related risks and opportunities is steered by our climate action 
agenda , containing key actions and deliverables that are owned by members of the Managing Board and Executive 
Committee. The Responsible Care Plan  and our greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction program  translate the climate action 
agenda into concrete operational programs managed by Operations & Responsible Care, Sourcing and business 
management. All of these are regularly discussed and reviewed during the MB/E C meetings.  
Strategy  
Climate change  creates  both risks and opportunities for us, and we expect climate mitigation  to have a bigger impact on 
the company than climate adaptation . At this moment , no material short -term climate risks are identified. Physical and 
transition risks are considered  as emerging risks , while  transition risks are expected to materialize later this decade.  
We reduc e our exposure to transition risks such as  carbon pricing and changing legislation through actively reducing GHG 
emissions fro m our own operations  and in our value chain . Projects  to underpin our Science Based Targets and net -zero 
by 2050  commitment are ongoing.  
Our innovations seek to offer solutions to address changes coming from the shift to a low -carbon society, which 
contribute to the mitigation of transition risks and support us in capturing growth opportunities. For example, food 
systems face considerable challenges from climate change, while at the same time food production is a major contributor 
to GHG emissi ons. With innovations including our  methane -reducing ruminant solution Bovaer ®, and plant -based 
alternatives , we offer solutions addressing transition opportunities an d create value for people, planet and our business.   
The impact of physical risks on our top 30 sites was assessed and we concluded that water scarcity is the most material 
risk which needs to be actively monitored and managed. All sites with an increased water risk profile were already in 
scope of our water stewardship  program. To determine the impact of physical risks on upstream and downstream 
activities, further assessments are planned.  
Risk Management  
We are implementing an approach using scenario analysis  to better understand the risks and opportunities related to 
climate change.  
Physical risks were assessed for our sites that could lead to material financial  impact in case of a prolonged shutdown. 
Risks were assessed for five hazards using three time horizons and three scenarios. Our understanding of our risk 
exposure was improved by means of a desk study, supported by an external consultant. The study took i nto account local 
circumstances and existing mitigations.  
For the transition risk assessments, scenarios were created using external data sources and aligned with the scenarios 
used for the physical risk assessments. Two pilots were completed, and we will  continue to conduct further transition risk 
assessments while updating and expanding the scenarios in use.  
The emerging climate -related risks , which were identified through climate risk assessments or via other means, are 
managed as part of our regular risk management processes . 
Targets and Metrics  
Our long -term goal is to reach net -zero GHG emissions across our value chains by 2050. To set us on this path, we work 
with Science Bas ed Targets (SBT) , which  are our key environmental targets in the Responsible Care Plan . Our SBT are  
supported by supplementary targets and programs. Our SBT consist of an absolute reduction of 50% on scope 1 + 2 
emissions a nd a scope 3 intensity reduction of 28%, both by 2030 and versus our 2016 baseline. Furthermore, we also Notes to the Sustainability statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  194 report on related metrics such as Brighter Living Solutions , avoided emissions, climate adaptation  efforts, and water 
stewardship .  
We apply a carbon price  of €100/t CO 2eq in our large investment decisions and in the Profit & Loss statements of the 
Business Groups for internal management reporting. We require all business growth projects to be carbon neutral, or else 
compensated for in the same business.  
Climate -related metrics form part of the Long -Term Incentives of the Managing Board  and executives . 
4 SASB and WEF IBC mapping  
We map our disclosures  to other  standards  and frameworks  to support  our stakeholders  who are using  these.  You can find 
how our disclosures  map to the Sustainability  Accounting  Standards  Board ’s Chemicals  Standard  and the WEF IBC 
Stakeholder  Capitalism  metrics  and disclosures  below.  SASB  disclosures  that are considered  ‘not material’  have  been  
omitted  from  the table.  
Topic  Reference  Location and WEF IBC notes  
Governing purpose  WEF IBC: Setting Purpose  Purpose  
Quality of governing body WEF IBC: Governance Body Composition  Governance framework
Stakeholder engagement  WEF IBC: Material issues impacting 
stakeholders  Materiality   
Management approach for material 
topics 
Ethical behavior  WEF IBC: Anti -Corruption  Code of Business Conduct  
WEF IBC: Protected ethics advice and reporting 
mechanisms  Code of Business Conduct  
Risk and opportunity 
oversight  WEF IBC: Integrating risk and opportunity into 
business process  Risk management  
Nutrition  
Materials  
Innovation  
Climate change  WEF IBC: Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions  
SASB: RT -CH-110a.1  
SASB: RT -CH-110a.2  Scope 1 + 2 GHG emissions  
Scope 3 GHG emissions  
WEF IBC: TCFD Implementation  Taskforce for Climate -related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD)  
Nature loss  WEF IBC: Land use and ecological sensitivity  Nature & biodiversity  – only % of sites 
in or adjacent to prot ected sites is 
reported. IUCN Red List species is 
currently unknown.  
Freshwater availability  WEF IBC: Water consumption and withdrawal 
in water -stressed areas  
SASB: RT -CH-140a.1  
SASB: RT -CH-140a.3  Water stewardship  – water stress is 
only measured for ‘non -OTC’ water 
withdrawal.  
Air quality  SASB: RT -CH-120a.1  Other emissions to air  
Energy management  SASB: RT-CH-130a.1  Energy transition
Waste management  SASB: RT -CH-150a.1  WasteNotes to the Sustainability statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  195 Topic  Reference  Location and WEF IBC notes  
Safety & environmental 
stewardship of chemicals  SASB: RT -CH-410b.1  
SASB: RT -CH-410b.2  Product stewardship  
Product stewardship  on the company 
website  
Genetically modified 
organisms  SASB: RT -CH-410c.1  Position paper on Industrial 
biotechnology  on the company website  
Dignity and equality  WEF IBC: Diversity and inclusion (%)  Inclusion & diversity  
WEF IBC: Pay equality (%)  Human rights  
Position paper on fair remuneration  on 
the company website  
Gender pay gap is reported at company 
level. Additional analysis and 
validation is on going.  
WEF IBC: Wage level (%)  Human rights   
Position paper on fair remuneration  on 
the company website  
DSM focuses on living wage instead of 
minimum wage.  
WEF IBC: Risk for incidents of child, forced, or 
compulsory labor  DSM figures: five -year summary – 
People  
We have found no instances of child 
labor within DSM, and child and forced 
labor are part of the Code of Business 
Conduct. Risk assessment is in 
progress for the Supply Chain. It is 
included in the Supplier Code of 
Conduct.  
Health & well -being  WEF IBC: Health and safety (%)  
SASB: RT -CH-320a.1  
SASB: RT -CH-320a.2  Safety  
Health & well -being  
We do not report on absenteeism.  
Skills for the future  WEF IBC: Training provided (#, $)  Inclusion & diversity  
We report on employee level only, as 
we do not consider it material to our 
management approach on training to 
break this number down.  
Safety incidents and 
response  SASB: RT -CH-540a.1  
SASB: RT -CH-540a.2  Safety, health & well -being
Employment and wealth 
generation  WEF IBC: Absolute number and rate of 
employment  DSM figures: five -year summary – 
People  
We do not provide a breakdown using 
multiple angles as we do not consider 
it material to do so.  
WEF IBC: Economic Contribution  Taxation position paper  on the 
company website  Notes to the Sustainability statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  196 Topic  Reference  Location and WEF IBC notes  
We do not report on the financial 
contributions received from 
governm ents.  
WEF IBC: Financial Investment Contribution  Strategy at a glance  
Key business figures at a glance  
Information on the DSM share  
Innovation in better 
products and services  WEF IBC: Total R&D Expenses ($)  Innovation
Community and social 
vitality  WEF IBC: Total tax paid  Taxation position paper  on the 
company website  Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  197 Consolidated financial statements  
Summary of significant accounting policies  
Basis of preparation  
DSM’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union and the provisions of section 362 -8 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. 
The accounting policies applied by DSM comply with I FRS and the pronouncements of the International Financial 
Reporting Interpretation Committee (IFRIC) effective at 31 December 2021. 
The impact of the IBOR reform (phase 1, effective as of 2020, and phase 2, effective as of 2021) on the operations and 
resul ts of DSM is not material . Furthermore , other new or amended standards that are effective from 1 January 202 1 do not 
have a material effect on DSM’s consolidated financial statements. In addition, new or amended standards effective after 1 
January 202 2 were neither adopted  early , nor expected to have significant impact.  
Consolidation  including joint arrangements  
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of Royal DSM and its subsidiaries (together ‘DSM’ 
or ‘group ’). As a parent company, DSM is exposed, or has a right, to the variable returns from its involvement with its 
subsidiaries and has the ability to affect the returns through its power over the subsidiary. The financial data of 
subsidiaries are fully consolidated. Non -controlling interests in the group's equity and profit and loss are stated 
separately. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the acquisition date until the date on which DSM ceases to have control. 
From the acquisition date onwards, all intra -group balances and t ransactions and unrealized profits or losses from intra -
group transactions are eliminated, with one exception: unrealized losses are not eliminated if there is evidence of an 
impairment of the asset transferred. In such cases, an impairment of the asset is  recognized.  
A joint arrangement is an entity in which DSM holds an interest and which is jointly controlled by DSM and one or more 
other venturers under a contractual arrangement . A joint arrangement can either be a joint venture where DSM and the 
other p artner(s) have rights to the net assets of the arrangement , or a joint operation where DSM and the partner(s) have 
rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities of the arrangement. For joint ventures, the investment in the net 
assets is recogni zed and accounted for in accordance with the equity method. For a joint operation, assets, liabilities, 
revenues and expenses are recognized in the financial statements of DSM in accordance with the contractual entitlement 
or obligations of DSM.  
Business c ombinations  
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the 
aggregate of the consideration transferred, including liabilities incurred, measured at acquisition date fair value, and the 
amount of any non -controlling interest in the acquiree. Acquisition costs incurred are expensed.  
As of the acquisition date, identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed and any non -controlling interest in the acquiree 
are recognized separately from goodwill. Identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed are measured at 
acquisition date fair value. For each business combination, DSM elects whether it measures the non -controlling interest in 
the acquiree at fair value or at the proportionate  share of the acquiree ’s identifiable net  assets. Any contingent 
consideration payable is measured at fair value at the acquisition date.  
For business combinations with the acquisition date in the prior reporting period, comparative information is revised in 
case adjustments are made during the measurement period to the provisional amounts, determined as part of the 
purchase price allocation (PPA), based on information available at the acquisition date.  
Segmentation  
Segment information is presented in respe ct of the group ’s reportable operating segments, about which separate financial 
information is available that is regularly evaluated by the chief operating decision maker. DSM has determined that 
Nutrition, Materials and the Innovation Center represent rep ortable segments in addition to Corporate Activities. The Consolidated financial statements – Summary of significant accounting policies  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  198 Managing Board decides how to allocate resources and assesses the performance of the clusters. Cluster performance is 
reported and reviewed down to the level of Adjusted EBITDA. The clusters are org anized in accordance with the type of 
products produced and the nature of the markets served. The same accounting policies that are applied for the 
consolidated financial statements of DSM are also applied for the operating segments. Prices for transaction s between 
segments are determined on an arm ’s length basis. Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly 
attributable to a segment as well as those that can reasonably and consistently be allocated. Selected information on a 
country and r egional basis is provided in addition to the information about operating segments.  
Foreign currency translation  
The presentation currency of the group is the euro.  
Each entity of the group records transactions and balance sheet items in its functional currency. Transactions 
denominated in a currency other than the functional currency are recorded at the spot exchange rates prevailing at the 
date of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of 
the entity are translated at the closing rates. Exchange differences resulting from the settlement of these transactions and 
from the translation of monetary it ems are recognized in the income statement.  
Non-monetary assets that are measured on the basis of historical costs denominated in a currency other than the 
functional currency continue to be translated against the rate at initial recognition and will not r esult in exchange 
differences.  
On consolidation, the balance sheets of subsidiaries that do not have the euro as their functional currency are translated 
into euros at the closing rate. The income statements of these entities are translated into euros at t he average rates for 
the relevant period. Goodwill paid on acquisition is recorded in the functional currency of the acquired entity. Exchange 
differences arising from the translation of the net investment in entities with a functional currency other than the euro are 
recorded in Other comprehensive income. The same applies to  exchange differences arising from borrowings and other 
financial instruments insofar as those instruments hedge the currency risk related to the net investment. On disposal of 
an enti ty with a functional currency other than the euro, the cumulative exchange differences relating to the translation of 
the net investment are recognized in profit or loss.  
Distinction between current and non -current  
An asset (liability) is classified as cur rent when it is expected to be realized (settled) within 12 months after the balance 
sheet date.  
Offsetting  
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is presented in the balance sheet when DSM has a 
legal right to offset the amounts and intends either to settle them on a net basis or to realize the asset and settle the 
liability simultaneously.  
Intangible assets  
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over DSM ’s share in the net fair value of the identifia ble assets 
and liabilities of an acquired subsidiary, joint venture or associate. Goodwill paid on acquisition of subsidiaries is includ ed 
in intangible assets. Goodwill paid on acquisition of joint ventures or associates is included in the carrying amount  of 
these entities. Goodwill recognized as an intangible asset is not amortized but tested for impairment annually , and when 
there are indications that the carrying amount may exceed the recoverable amount. A gain or loss on the disposal of an 
entity inclu des the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.  
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recognized at fair value on the date of acquisition and 
subsequently amortized over their expected useful lives, which vary from 4 to 20 years.  
Separately acquired licenses, patents, drawing rights and application software are carried at historical cost less straight -
line amortization and less any impairment losses. The expected useful lives vary from 4 to 15 years. Costs of software 
maintenance are expensed when incurred. Capital expenditure that is directly related to the development of application 
software is recognized as an intangible asset and amortized over its estimated useful life (5 to 8 years).  Consolidated financial statements – Summary of significant accounting policies  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  199 Research costs are expensed when incurred. Development expenditure is capitalized if the recognition criteria are met and 
if it is demonstrated that it is technically feasible to complete the asset; that the entity intends to complete the asset; t hat 
the entity is able to sell the asset; that the asset is capable of generating future economic benefits; that adequate 
resources are available to complete the asset; and that the expenditure attributable to the asset can  be reliably measured. 
Development expenditure is amortized over the asset ’s useful life. Development projects under construction are included 
under ‘Development projects ’. 
Property, plant and equipment  
Property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less depreciation calculated on a straight -line basis and less any 
impa irment losses. Interest during construction is capitalized when it meets the criteria of a qualifying asset. Expenditures 
relating to major scheduled turnarounds are capitalized and depreciated over the period up to the next turnaround.  
Property, plant and  equipment are systematically depreciated over their estimated useful lives. The estimated remaining 
lives of assets are reviewed every year, taking account of commercial and technological obsolescence as well as normal 
wear and tear. The initially assumed  expected useful lives are in principle as follows: for buildings 10 –50 years; for plant 
and machinery 5 –15 years; for other equipment 4 –10 years. Land is not depreciated.  
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognized upon disposal or when no fu ture economic benefits are 
expected to arise from the continued use or the sale of the asset. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset is 
recorded in profit or loss.  
Leases  
DSM recognizes a lease liability and a corresponding right -of-use ass et at the commencement date of a lease. The lease 
liability is initially measured at the present value of the remaining lease payments that are not paid at the commencement 
date.  In general, DSM splits the contractual consideration into a lease and a non -lease component based on their relative 
stand -alone prices. For vehicle leases, however, DSM applies the practical expedient not to make this split but rather 
accounts for the fixed consideration as a single lease component.  If available, DSM applies the im plicit interest rate in the 
contract to discount the remaining lease payments; only else, DSM uses the applicable incremental borrowing rate as the 
discount rate. In determining the incremental borrowing rate, DSM applies the practical expedient to use a s ingle discount 
rate to portfolios of leases with reasonably similar characteristics.  Over time , the lease liability is increased by the interest 
expense related to the unwinding of the lease liability and decreased by the lease payments made. The lease lia bility is 
remeasured when DSM reassesses or modifies the contractual terms and conditions , including indexation.  
The corresponding right-of-use assets are measured at cost  less any depreciation  on a straight -line basis over the 
expected lease term , less  any impairment losses , and adjusted for  remeasurements of the lease liability. In line with the 
initially assumed expected useful life of the corresponding asset class within Property, plant and equipment, the minimum 
expected lease term for building  leases is in principle 10 years. However, the contractual terms or specific circumstances 
could require applying the shorter non -cancellable period in determining the expected lease term. For vehicle leases, the 
expected lease term is set equal to the contractual  term (4 –5 years).  
Payments related to short -term leases (leases with a term shorter than 12 months) are recognized on a straight -line basis 
in profit or loss.  
Impairment of non -financial assets  
When there are indications that the carrying amount of a non -financial asset (an intangible asset or an item of property, 
plant and equipment) may exceed the estimated recoverable amount (the higher of its value in use and fair value less 
costs to sell), the possible existence of an impairment loss is investigated. If an asset does not generate largely 
independent cash flows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit (CGU) to which the asset 
belongs. In assessing the value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present  value using a pre -
tax discount rate that reflects current market interest rates and the risks specific to the asset.  
When the recoverable amount of a non -financial asset is less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount is impaired to 
its recoverable amount and an impairment charge is recognized in profit or loss. An impairment loss is reversed when Consolidated financial statements – Summary of significant accounting policies  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  200 there has been a change in estimate that is relevant for the determination of the asset ’s recoverable amount since the last 
impairment loss was recognized.  Impairment losses for goodwill are never reversed.  
Associates and joint ventures  
An associate is an entity over which DSM has significant influence but no control or joint control, usually evidenced by a 
shareholding that entitles DSM to between 20% and 5 0% of the voting rights. A joint venture is an entity over which DSM 
has joint control and is entitled to its share of the net assets and liabilities. Investments in associates and joint venture s 
are accounted for by the equity method, which involves recog nition in the income statement of DSM ’s share of the 
associate ’s or joint venture ’s profit or loss for the year determined in accordance with the accounting policies of DSM. Any 
other results at DSM in relation to associated companies are recognized under Other results related to associates and 
joint ventures. DSM ’s interest in an assoc iate or joint venture is carried in the balance sheet at its share in the net assets 
of the associate or joint venture together with goodwill paid on acquisition, less any impairment loss.  
When DSM ’s share in the loss of an associate or joint venture excee ds the carrying amount of that entity, the carrying 
amount is reduced to zero. No further losses are recognized, unless DSM has responsibility for obligations relating to the 
entity.  
Financial instruments  
Financial instruments are contractual rights and obligations resulting in an inflow or outflow of financial  assets or the 
issue of equity instruments. They are initially measured at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs. 
Transaction costs for financial instruments assigned to the ca tegory ‘At fair value through profit and loss ’ are recognized 
directly in the income statement. Subsequent measurement is based on the classification of financial instruments defined 
in IFRS 9.  
Non-derivative financial instruments  
DSM initially recognizes financial assets and financial liabilities on the date when DSM becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument. DSM derecognizes a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the 
asset expire, or when it transfers th e rights to receive the contractual cash flows in a transaction in which substantially all 
the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset are transferred. DSM derecognizes a financial liability when its 
contractual obligations are discharged or canceled, or expire.  
Other financial assets  
Other financial assets comprise loans to associates and joint ventures, other participating interests  and other receivables.  
DSM’s business model objective for loans is ‘held-to-collect contractual cash flows on ly’. Held to collect l oans , other  
receivables  and other deferred items , for which the contractual cash flows consist solely of principal and interest, are 
measured at amortized cost, using the effective interest method, which generally corresponds to the nominal value, less 
an adjustment for expected credit loss. Upon disposal of these assets the gain or loss is recognized in profit or loss.  
Other receivables, for which the contractual cash flows are not solely principal and interest, are recognized at fair  value, 
with changes in fair value recognized in profit or loss.  
Other participating interests comprise equity interests in entities in which DSM has no significant influence; these are 
accounted for as assets at fair value through profit or loss, or DSM u ses the irrevocable election to present the fair value 
changes in other comprehensive income (Fair value reserve) instead of profit or loss. These f air value changes in OCI will 
not be recycled through profit and loss upon disposal of the interest . All div idends received will be presented in profit or 
loss. 
Expected credit loss  
All financial assets measured at amortized cost include an  allowance for  expected credit loss as of the date of initial 
recognition of the asset. Expected c redit losses are measured as the present value of the difference between the cash 
flows due to DSM, and the cash flows that DSM expects to receive. Expected credit losses , are reassessed  over time and 
recognized in the income statement. Loss allowances for trade receivables are always measured at lifetime expected credit 
loss. Consolidated financial statements – Summary of significant accounting policies  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  201 Inventories  
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value. The first in, fir st out (FIFO) method of valuation is used 
unless the nature of the inventories requires the use of a different cost formula, in which case the weighted average cost 
method is used. The cost of intermediates and finished goods includes directly attributable  costs and related production 
overhead expenses. Net realizable value is determined as the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, 
less the estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale. Products whose  
manufacturing cost cannot be calculated because of joint cost components are stated at net realizable value after 
deduction of a margin for selling and distribution efforts.  
Current receivables  
Current receivables , which include trade receivables, income tax receivables and other current receivables,  for which the 
contractual cash flows are solely principal and interest are initially recognized at fair value plus any directly attributabl e 
transaction costs.  
Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measu red at amortized cost using the effective interest method, which  generally 
corresponds to nominal value, less an adjustment for expected credit loss.  
Current investments  
Current investments are initially recognized at fair value plus any directly attributa ble transaction costs. Subsequent to 
initial recognition, they are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. Deposits with banks with a 
maturity between 3 and 12 months are classified as current investments.  
Cash and cash equivalents  
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at banks and in hand and deposits held at call with banks with a maturity of less 
than three months at inception. Bank overdrafts are included in current liabilities. Included in cash and cash equivalents 
are investm ents in money market funds that do not meet the SPPI (Solely Payments of Principal & Interest) criterion but 
are held to meet short -term cash demand. Cash and cash equivalents are measured at fair value through profit and loss, 
or amortized cost.  
Non-curre nt assets and disposal groups held for sale  
Non-current assets and disposal groups (assets and liabilities relating to an activity that is to be sold) are classified as 
‘held for sale ’ if their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale s transaction rather than through 
continuing use. The reclassification takes place when the assets are available for immediate sale and the sale is highly 
probable. These conditions are usually met as from the date on which a letter of intent or agreement to sell is ready for 
signing. Non -current assets and disposal groups held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value 
less costs to sell. Non -current assets held for sale are not depreciated or amortized. For transparency, non -current assets 
and disposal groups that will contribute to joint ventures are reported separately from other assets and liabilities held for  
sale. 
Discontinued operations  
Discontinued operations comprise those activities that were disposed of during the period  or which were classified as held 
for sale at the end of the period and represent a separate major line of business or geographical area that can be clearly 
distinguished for operational and financial reporting purposes.  
Royal DSM Shareholders ’ equity  
DSM’s ordinary shares and Cumulative Preference Shares are classified as Royal DSM Shareholders ’ equity. This is the case 
for the latter, as there is no mandatory redemption, and distributions to the shareholders are at the discretion of DSM. The 
price paid for repurchased DSM shares (treasury shares) is deducted from Royal DSM Shareholders ’ equity u ntil the shares 
are canceled or reissued. Treasury shares are presented in the treasury share reserve. When treasury  shares are sold or 
reissued, the amount received is recognized as an increase in equity. Dividend to be distributed to holders of Cumulativ e 
Preference Shares is recognized as a liability when the Supervisory Board approves the proposal for profit distribution. 
Dividend to be distributed to holders of ordinary shares is recognized as a liability when the Annual General Meeting of 
Shareholders  approves the profit appropriation.  Consolidated financial statements – Summary of significant accounting policies  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  202 Provisions  
Provisions are recognized when all of the following conditions are met: (1) there is a present legal or constructive 
obligation as a result of past events, (2) it is probable that a transfer of economic benefi ts will settle the obligation, and (3) 
a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.  
The probable amount required to settle long -term obligations is discounted if the effect of discounting is material. Where 
discounting is used, the incr ease in the provision due to the passage of time is recognized as financial expense . 
Borrowings  
Borrowings are not held for trading and are initially recognized at fair value of the proceeds received, net of transaction 
costs. Subsequently, borrowings are stated at amortized cost using the effective interest method. Measurement at 
amortized cost includes any discount or premium on the borrowing. Interest expenses are recorded  as financial expense  
in profit or loss.  
If the interest rate risk r elating to a long -term borrowing is hedged through a fair value hedge, and the hedge is effective, 
the carrying amount of the long -term loan is adjusted for changes in fair value of the interest component of the hedged 
loan.  
Other liabilities  
Other liabili ties are measured at amortized cost, which generally corresponds to the nominal value , or at fair value 
through profit and loss . The latter is mainly app lied to acquisition -related liabilities.  
Revenue for contracts with customers  
Revenue from contracts w ith customers is recognized by identifying the contract and its performance obligations as well 
as determination and allocation of the transaction price to these performance obligations. At DSM, revenue related to the 
sale of goods is recognized in the inc ome statement when the performance obligation is satisfied. This is at the point in 
time when transfer of control of the goods passes to the buyer. Revenue  recognized  is measured at the fair value of the 
contractual transaction price allocated to the perfo rmance obligation that is satisfied . 
Income coming from the rendering of services is recognized when the service, i.e., the performance obligation, has been  
performed. The revenue  recognized  is measured at the fair value of the  contractual  transaction price allocated to the 
performance obligation that is satisfied . 
Net sales represent the invoice value less estimated rebates, cash discounts, and indirect taxes.  
Income related to the sale or l icensing of technologies or technological expertise is recognized in the income statement 
either at a point in time or over time, depending on when the contractually identified performance obligations are 
satisfied. Performance obligations related to licen se income include the transfer of rights and obligations associated with 
those technologies.  License income is reported in Net sales when the income is part of the ordinary and recurring 
activities of the business and, if this is not the case , it is report ed in Other operating income.  
Interest income is recognized on a time -proportionate basis using the effective interest method.  
Dividend income is recognized when the right to receive payment is established.  
Government grants  
Government grants are recognize d at their fair value if there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all 
related conditions will be complied with. Cost grants are recognized as income over the periods necessary to match the 
grant on a systematic basis to the cost th at it is intended to compensate. If the grant is an investment grant, its fair value 
is initially recognized as deferred income in Other non -current liabilities and then released to profit or loss over the 
expected useful life of the relevant asset.  
Share -based compensation  
Performance shares and restricted share units are granted free of charge to eligible staff and generally vest after three 
years on the achievement of previously determined target  vesting conditions. The cost of performance share  units and Consolidated financial statements – Summary of significant accounting policies  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  203 restricted share units  is measured by reference to the fair value of the DSM shares on the date on which the performance 
share  units  and restricted share units were granted and is recognized in profit or loss (Employee benefit costs) during the 
vesting p eriod, together with a corresponding increase in equity. Vesting conditions other than market conditions are 
taken into account by adjusting the number of equity instruments, so that the amount recognized during the vesting 
period in employee benefit costs  is based on the number of equity instruments that eventually vest.  
The costs of option plans are measured by reference to the fair value of the options on the date on which the options are 
granted. The fair value is determined using the Black -Scholes mode l, taking into account market conditions linked to the 
price of the DSM share. The costs of these options are recognized in profit or loss (Employee benefit costs) during the 
vesting period, together with a corresponding increase in Equity in the case of e quity -settled options or Other non -current 
liabilities in the case of cash -settled options. No expense is recognized for options that do not ultimately vest, except for 
options where vesting is conditional upon a market condition.  
Emission rights  
DSM is su bject to legislation encouraging reductions in greenhouse gas emissions and has been awarded emission rights 
(principally CO 2 emission rights) in a number of jurisdictions. Emission rights are reserved for meeting delivery obligations 
and are recognized at  cost. Revenue is recognized when surplus emission rights are sold to third parties. When actual 
emissions exceed the emission rights available to DSM, a liability is recognized for the expected additional costs.  
Alternative performance measures (APMs)  
DSM uses Alternative performance measures to present and discuss DSM ’s financial results. To arrive at these APMs, 
adjustments are made for material  items of income and expense arising from circumstances such as acquisitions  and 
divestments, restructuring, impairments and other events . 
Other APM adjust ing events  include site closure costs, environmental cleaning, litigation settlements or other non -
operational (contractual) arrangements. Other than items related to acquisition and integration costs incurred in the first 
year from the acquisition date (including non -recurring inventory value adjustments) as well as adjustments due to 
previously recogniz ed APM adjusting events, the threshold is €10 million.  
Income tax  
Income tax expense is recognized in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to an item recognized 
directly in Other comprehensive income or Shareholders ’ equity.  
Current ta x is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted at the 
balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable with respect to previous years . The current tax position also  
reflects any uncertainty rela ted to income taxes. Current tax assets and liabilities are offset only if certain criteria are met.  
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected tax consequences of temporary differences between the 
carrying amount of assets and lia bilities and their tax base. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax 
rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date, and reflect  any uncertainty related to 
income taxes  and are expected to apply when the  related deferred tax assets are realized or the deferred tax liabilities are 
settled. Deferred tax assets, including assets arising from losses carried forward and tax credits, are reassessed over time 
and recognized to the extent that it is probable that  future taxable profits will be  available against which the deductible 
temporary differences and unused tax losses can be utilized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are stated at nominal 
value.  
Deferred taxes are not provided for the following temporary  differences: the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial 
recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investmen ts 
in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse  in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets and deferred 
tax liabilities are offset and presented net when there is a legally enforceable right to offset, and the assets and liabilit ies 
relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority.  Consolidated financial statements – Summary of significant accounting policies  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  204 Derivatives  
Derivatives are measured at fair value  at initial recognition and subsequent  changes are recognized in profit or loss, 
unless hedge accounting is applied.  
Hedging  
DSM uses derivatives such as foreign currency forward contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge risks associated with 
foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations. In addition, DSM may use commodity swap or forward contracts to hedge 
risks associated with exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices.  
Derivatives used as hedge instru ment are recognized in the balance sheet at fair value  and changes in fair value are 
recognized in profit or loss unless cash flow hedge accounting or net investment hedge accounting is applied.  
Cash flow hedge  
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated and qualifying as cash flow hedges are recognized in Other 
comprehensive income (Hedging reserve) to the extent that the hedge is effective. Upon recognition of the related asset or 
liability, the cumulative gain or loss is transferr ed from the hedging reserve and included in the carrying amount of the 
hedged item if it is a non -financial asset or liability. Any ineffective portion of the changes of the fair value of the 
derivative is recognized immediately in profit and loss. If the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the 
hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or 
exercised, or the designation is revoked, then hedge accounting is discontinued prosp ectively. If the forecast transaction is 
no longer expected to occur, then the amount accumulated in equity is reclassified to profit or loss. If the hedged item is a  
financial asset or liability, the gain or loss is transferred to profit or loss.  
Net inve stment hedge  
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated and qualifying as net investment hedges are recognized in Other  
comprehensive income (Translation reserve) to the extent that the hedge is effective and the change in fair value is 
caused by changes in currency exchange rates. Accumulated gains and losses are released from Other comprehensive 
income and are included in profit or loss when the net investment is disposed of.  
Fair value  hedge  
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated a nd qualifying as fair value hedges are immediately recognized in the 
income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged assets or liabilities attributable to the hedged 
risk. 
Pensions and other post -employment benefits  
For DSM’s defined contribution plans, the obligations are limited to the payment of contributions, which are recognized as 
Employee benefit costs.  
For defined benefit plans, the aggregate of the value of the defined benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets  for 
each plan is recognized as a net defined benefit liability or asset. Defined benefit obligations are determined using the 
projected unit credit method. Plan assets are recognized at fair value. If the fair value of plan assets exceeds the present 
value of the defined benefit obligation, a net asset is only recognized to the extent that the asset is available for refunds 
to the employer or for reductions in future contributions to the plan. Defined benefit pension costs consist of three 
elements: servic e costs, net interest, and remeasurements. Service costs are part of Employee benefit costs and consist of 
current service costs. Past service costs and results of plan settlements are included in Other operating income or 
expense. Net interest is part of Financial income and expense and is determined on the basis of the value of the net 
defined benefit asset or liability at the start of the year, and on the interest on high -quality corporate bonds. 
Remeasurements are actuarial gains and losses, the return (or interest cost) on net plan assets (or liabilities) excluding 
amounts included in net interest and changes in the effect of the asset ceiling. These remeasurements are recognized in 
Other comprehensive income as they occur and are not recycled through p rofit or loss at a later stage.  Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  205 Consolidated financial statements
Consolidated income statement  
x € million  Notes  2021 2020 
Continuing operations  
Net sales  5 9,204  8,106  
Cost of sales   5 (6,040)  (5,330)  
Gross margin  3,164  2,776  
Marketing and sales  5 (1,270)  (1,149)  
Research and development  5 (323)  (398)  
General and administrative  5 (517) (469)  
Other operating income  5 95 102 
Other operating expense  5 (128) (200)  
Operating profit  1,021 662 
Financial income  6 24 44 
Financial expense  6 (130) (111) 
Profit before income tax expense  915 595 
Income tax expense  7 (168)  (106)  
Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures  10 16 (64) 
Other results related to associates and joint ventures  10 326 32 
Net profit from continuing operations  1,089  457 
Net profit from discontinued operations  3 591 51 
Net profit for the year  1,680  508 
Of which:  
-Attributable to non -controlling interests 17 4 2 
-Dividend on Cumulative Preference Shares 16 6 7 
-Available to holders of ordinary shares 16 1,670  499 
Earnings per share (EPS) total (in €):  2 
-Net basic EPS 9.68 2.91 
-Net diluted EPS 9.63 2.89 
Earnings per share (EPS) continuing operations (in €):  2 
-Net basic EPS 6.26 2.64 
-Net diluted EPS 6.23 2.62 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  
See Note 2 Alternative performance measures  for the reconciliation to Adjusted EBITDA of € 1,814 million (20 20: €1,534  
million) and oth er adjusted IFRS performance measures.  Consolidated financial statements 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  206 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income  
x € million  Notes  2021 2020 
Net profit for the year  1,680  508 
Other comprehensive income  
Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans  24 153 (24) 
Fair value changes in Other participating interests  11 46 106 
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations relating to the non -
controlling interests  17 8 (4) 
Tax related items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss  (20) (4) 
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss  187 74 
. 
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations  16 
-Change for the year 478 (451) 
-Reclassification adjustment to the income statement (13) - 
Hedging reserve  16 
-Change for the year (24) 40 
-Reclassification adjustment to the income statement 7 20 
Equity accounted investees - share of Other comprehensive income  1 (2) 
Tax related items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss  7 (4) 
Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss  456 (397) 
. 
Total comprehensive income  2,323  185 
Of which:  
-Attributable to non -controlling interests 17 12 (2) 
-Available to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 16 2,311 187 Consolidated financial statements 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  207 Consolidated balance sheet at 31 December  
x € million  Notes  2021 2020 
Assets  
Intangible assets  8 5,310  4,440  
Property, plant and equipment  9 3,957  3,775 
Deferred tax assets  7 203 240 
Prepaid pension costs  24 75 2 
Share in associates and joint ventures  10 64 93 
Derivatives  23 48 61 
Other financial assets  11 227 315 
Non-current assets  9,884  8,926  
Inventories  12 2,297  1,879  
Trade receivables  13 1,603  1,391 
Income tax receivables  13 61 32 
Other current receivables  13 32 60 
Derivatives  23 30 48 
Current investments  14 489 43 
Cash and cash equivalents  15 1,561 871 
Assets held for sale  3 56 1,096  
Current assets  6,129  5,420  
Total  16,013  14,346  
. 
Equity and liabilities  
Shareholders' equity  9,318  7,399  
Non-controlling interests  17 79 88 
Equity  16 9,397  7,487  
Deferred tax liabilities  7 485 431 
Employee benefit liabilities  24 323 414 
Provisions  18 96 123 
Borrowings  19 2,989  3,484  
Derivatives  23 9 1 
Other non -current liabilities  20 283 163 
Non-current liabilities  4,185  4,616  
Employee benefit liabilities  24 21 42 
Provisions  18 68 61 
Borrowings  19 104 102 
Derivatives  23 40 13 
Trade payables  21 1,571 1,218 
Income tax payables  21 77 45 
Other current liabilities  21 540 508 
Liabilities held for sale 3 10 254 
Current liabilities  2,431  2,243  
Total  16,013  14,346  Consolidated financial statements 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  208 Consolidated statement of changes in equity (Note 16)  
x € million  Share 
capital  Share 
premium  Treasury 
shares  Other 
reserves  Retained 
earnings  Total  Non-
controlling 
interests  Total  
Equity  
Balance at 1 January 2020  338  489  (905) 96 7,713  7,731  104  7,835   
Dividend  -  -  -  -  (423)  (423) (6) (429)
Options / performance shares granted  -  -  -  29 - 29 - 29
Options / performance shares vested / 
canceled -  -  -  (39) 39 -  -  -  
Reissued shares  -  -  238 - (32) 206  - 206
Acquisition of NCI without a change in 
control  -  -  -  -  (22) (22) (10) (32)
Acquisition (divestment) of subsidiary with 
NCI -  -  -  -  -  -  (1) (1) 
Repurchase of shares  -  -  (309)  -  -  (309)  - (309)
Transfer  -  -  -  (30) 30 -  -  -  
Other  -  -  -  (3) 3 - 3 3  
Total comprehensive income  -  -  -  (296)  483 187  (2) 185
Balance at 31 December 2020  338  489  (976) (243)  7,791  7,399   88 7,487   
. 
Dividend  -  -  -  -  (421) (421) (3) (424)
Options / performance shares granted  -  -  -  22 - 22 - 22 
Options / performance shares vested / 
canceled -  -  -  (24) 24 -  -  -  
Cancellation of shares  (10) (18) 746  - (718) -  -  -  
Reissued shares  -  -  218 - (25) 193  - 193
Acquisition of NCI without a change in 
control  -  -  -  -  (20) (20) 7  (13) 
Acquisition (divestment) of subsidiary with 
NCI -  -  -  -  -  -  (24) (24) 
Repurchase of shares  -  -  (165) -  -  (165) - (165) 
Transfer  -  -  -  (101) 101 -  -  -  
Other  -  -  -  1  (2) (1) (1) (2)
Total comprehensive income  -  -  -  501  1,810   2,311  12  2,323  
Balance at 31 December 2021  328  471  (177) 156 8,540   9,318   79 9,397   Consolidated financial statements 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  209 Consolidated cash flow statement (Note 26)  
x € million  2021 2020 
Operating activities  
Net profit for the year  1,680  508 
Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures (including discontinued operations)¹  (342)  32 
Income tax (including discontinued operations)¹  245 129 
Profit before income tax expense (including discontinued operations)¹  1,583  669 
Financial income and expense (including discontinued operations)¹  106 67 
Operating profit (including discontinued operations)¹  1,689  736 
Depreciation, amortization and impairments (including discontinued operations)¹  681 740 
EBITDA (including discontinued operations)¹  2,370  1,476  
Adjustments for:  
-(Gain) or loss from disposals (649)  4 
-Acquisition / divestment related in EBITDA 22 55 
-Change in provisions (20) 10 
-Defined benefit plans (39) (13) 
Adjustments for EBITDA  (686)  56 
Income tax received  23 11 
Income tax paid  (156) (135) 
Share -based compensation  22 29 
Other  (2) 32 
Adjustments for non-EBITDA  (113) (63) 
Operating cash flow before changes in working capital  1,571 1,469  
Changes in operating working capital:  
Inventories  (323)  (36) 
Trade receivables  (194) (4) 
Trade payables  334 48 
Changes in inventories, trade receivables and trade payables  (183) 8 
Changes in non -operating working capital  39 17 
Changes in working capital  (144) 25 
Cash provided by operating activities  1,427 1,494  
1 The Consolidated cash flow statement includes an analysis of all cash flows in total, therefore including both continuing and  
discontinued operations. For the amounts related to discontinued operations split by activities and a reconciliation of profit  from 
continuing operations to total , including discontinued operations , see Note 3 Change in the scope of the consolidation . Consolidated financial statements 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  210 Consolidated cash flow statement (Note 26) continued  
x € million  2021 2020 
Cash provided by operating activities  1,427 1,494  
Investing activities  
Capital expenditure for:¹  
-Intangible assets (137) (151) 
-Property, plant and equipment (433)  (458)  
Payments regarding drawing rights  (7) (17) 
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment  27 1 
Acquisition of subsidiaries and associates  (704)  (1,533)  
Disposal of subsidiaries, businesses and associates  1,791 (2) 
Additions to fixed -term deposits  (2,070)  (468)  
Withdrawal from fixed -term deposits  1,625  1,114 
Interest received  5 8 
Other financial assets:  
-Capital payments and acquisitions (43) (20) 
-Dividends received 12 5 
-Additions to loans granted (10) (9) 
-Repayment of loans granted 29 1 
-Proceeds from disposals 123 47 
Cash from / (used in) investing activities  208 (1,482)  
Financing activities  
Contributions from Non -controlling interests  3 3 
Acquisition of Non -controlling interests  (13) (33) 
Loans taken up  37 1,123 
Repayment of loans  (513) (268)  
Payments of lease liabilities  (54) (55) 
Change in debt to credit institutions  12 (95) 
Dividend paid  (266)  (289)  
Interest paid  (65) (54) 
Proceeds from reissued treasury shares  34 63 
Repurchase of shares  (165) (309)  
Other  6 (3) 
Cash (used in) / from financing activities  (984)  83 
Change in cash and cash equivalents  651 95 
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January  871 800 
Exchange differences relating to cash held  39 (24) 
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December  1,561 871 
1 In 2021 , there was no customer funding of capital expenditures (in 2020 a n amount  of €24 million included in capital expenditure was 
funded by customers); all lease payments are recognized as cash used in financing activities . Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  211 Notes to the consolidated financial statements of 
Royal DSM  
1 General information  
Unless stated otherwise, all amounts are in € million.  
A list of DSM participations has been filed with the Chamber of Commerce (Netherlands) and is available from the 
company upon request. The list can also be downloaded from the company website . 
The preparation of financial statements requires estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and 
liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of conti ngent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial 
statements.  
In addition to DSM’s significant accounting policies in the previous section, t he policies that management considers to be 
the most important for the presentation of the financial posit ion and results of DSM’s operations are further discussed in 
the relevant Notes. The same holds for the issues that require management judgments or estimates about matters that 
are inherently uncertain. Management cautions that future events often vary fro m forecasts and that estimates routinely 
require adjustment. Areas of judgment that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognized in the financial 
statements relate to the categorization of material items in profit or loss  as ‘APM adjustments ’, therefore impacting  the 
alternative performance measures , and the identification of cash generating units (CGUs) , impacting goodwill impairment 
testing . 
Key assumptions and estimates that need to be made by management relate to the useful lives of non-current assets 
(Notes 8 and 9), the establishment of provisions for restructuring costs, environmental costs (Note 18) and retirement and 
other post -employment benefits (Note 24), the recognition and measurement of income taxes (Note 7), the determinat ion 
of fair values for financial instruments (Note 23) and for share -based compensation (Note 27). The uncertainty concerning 
the actual outflows of provisions relates to both the amounts and the timing of potential future events.  
Furthermore, impairment t esting of goodwill , intangible assets  and development projects requires judgments by 
management . Apart from the  determination of CGUs , the estimation of future cashflows, growth rates , discount rates  and 
fair values minus costs of disposal require judgemen t as well  (Notes 2, 8, 9 and 10). Significant judgment is also required 
for the determination of the fair value of assets acquired , and liabilities assumed in business combinations (Note 3) and 
for the valuation of drawing rights (Note 8). For drawing righ ts, the most important judgments relate to the estimation of 
the required maintenance and replacement outlays. Estimates are based on historical quoted market prices, experience 
and assumptions that are considered reasonable under the circumstances.  
For le ase contracts under IFRS 16 that include renewal options, determining the lease term involves judgment based on 
the underlying asset class, past practices and current business outlooks. The assessment of these renewal options affects 
the lease term of thes e contracts and, in turn, the recognized lease liabilities and the corresponding right -of-use assets.  Notes to the consolidated  financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  212 Exchange rates  
The currency exchange rates that were used in preparing the consolidated financial statements are listed below for the 
most important cur rencies.  
1 euro =  Exchange rate at 
balance sheet date  Average exchange rate  
2021 2020 2021 2020 
US dollar  1.13 1.23 1.18 1.14 
Swiss franc  1.03 1.08 1.08 1.07 
Brazilian real  6.31 6.37 6.38 5.88 
Chinese renminbi  7.19 8.02 7.63 7.87 
Presentation of Consolidated income statement  
DSM presents expenses in the Consolidated income statement in accordance with their function. This allows the 
presentation of gross margin on the face of the income statement, which is a widely used performance measure in the 
industry. The composition of the costs allocated to the individual functions is explained below.  
Cost of sales  encompasses all manufacturing costs (including raw materials, employee benefits, and depreciation and 
amortizatio n) related to goods and services captured in net sales. These are measured at their actual cost based on FIFO, 
or weighted average cost.  
Marketing & Sales relates to the selling and marketing of goods and services, and also includes all costs that are dire ctly 
related to the sale of goods, but are not originated by the manufacturing of the goods (e.g., outbound freight).  
Research & Development consists of:  
-Research, which is defined as original and planned investigation undertaken with the prospect of gaining new
scientific or technical knowledge and understanding
-Development, which is defined as the application of research findings or other knowledge to a plan or design for
the production of new or substantially improved materials, devices, products, p rocesses, systems or services
before the start of commercial production or use  that do not meet the accounting requirements for capitalization.
General and administrative  relates to the strategic and governance role of the general management of the compan y as 
well as the representation of DSM as a whole in the financial, political or business community. It also relates to business 
support activities of staff departments that are not directly related to the other functional areas.  
2 Alter native performance measures  
In presenting and discussing DSM’s financial position, operating results and net results, management uses certain 
Alternative performance measures not defined by IFRS. These Alternative performance measures (APMs) should not be 
viewed in isolation as alternatives to the equivalent IFRS measures and should be used as supplementary information in 
conjunction with the most directly comparable IFRS measures. Alternative performance measures do not have 
standardized meaning under IFRS  and therefore may not be comparable to similar measures presented by other 
companies.  
To provide clear reporting on the developments of the business, APM adjustments, which represent material items of 
income or expense, are made. These adjustments impact the EBIT(DA), operating profit, net profit, ROCE, cash provided by 
operating activities and EPS. A reconciliation of the Alternative performance measures to the most directly comparable 
IFRS measures can be found in the table Alternative performance measures.  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  213 The APM adjustments to net profit, as included in the APMs, can be specified as follows:  
2021 
The APM adjustments in 2021 are listed below:  
-Acquisition and divestment costs of € 26 million relate mainly to the acquisition and integration of Erber and First
Choice Ingredients
-Restructuring costs of € 92 million relate mainly to restructuring projects, following the new strategy and the
restructuring project at Materials, including  the redundancy schemes associated with the dismissal of employees and
costs of termination of contracts
-APM adjustments to th e result from associates and joint ventures are a profit of €319 million and relate mainly to the
book profit of €303 million on the sale of DSM’s share of AOC Aliancys and a profit of €13 million on a higher earn -out
relating to previous divestments
2020 
The APM adjustments in 2020 are listed below:  
-Acquisition and divestment costs of € 52 million relate mainly to the acquisition of Glycom , CSK  and Erber Group
-Restructuring costs of € 103 million relate to restructuring projects  (mainly Fit for Growth withi n Nutrition and Agile to
grow within Materials)  together with the redundancy schemes associated with the dismissal of employees and costs of
termination of contracts
-Impairments of property, plant and equipment (PPE) and intangible assets of € 101 million and the other APM
adjustment of € 11 million relate to an impairment of €56 million of DSM Bio -based Products & Services, owing to a n
expected  subdued market outlook for biofuels  which led to insufficient expected futu re cash flows  and an  impairment
of €56 million relating to DSM Advanced Solar on its solar assets  following the sale to Covestro AG
-APM adjustments to the result from associates and joint ventures of € 41 million relate mainly to the joint venture
POET -DSM, following the decision to mothball the second -generation bio -ethanol plant in Emmetsburg (Iowa, USA) ,
and includes DSM's equity -accounted share in the impairment loss recognized by  the joint venture (€74 million), the
impairment of the associated intangible assets (€11 million) and the related tax benefit ( -€28 million)2021 2020 
APM Adjustments (continuing operations)  
-Acquisitions/divestments 26 52 
-Restructuring 92 103 
-Other (6) 11 
-Impairments of PPE and intangible assets 6 101 
-Income tax related to adjustments (30) (54) 
-Adjustments to result from associates and joint ventures (319) 41 
Total APM adjustments (income)/expense  (231) 254 Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  214 Alternative performance measures (continuing operations)  
2021 2020 
Operating profit  1,021 662 
Depreciation, amortization and impairments  681 706 
EBITDA  1,702 1,368  
APM adjustments to EBITDA:  
-Acquisitions/divestments 26 52 
-Restructuring 92 103 
-Other (6) 11 
Total APM adjustments  112 166 
Adjusted EBITDA  1,814  1,534  
Operating profit  1,021 662 
APM adjustments to Operating profit:  
-APM adjustments to EBITDA 112 166 
-Impairments of PPE and Intangible assets 6 101 
Total APM adjustments  118 267 
Adjusted operating profit  1,139 929 
Net profit from continuing operations  1,089  457 
APM adjustments to:  
-Operating profit 118 267 
-Result relating to associates/joint ventures (319) 41 
Income tax related to APM adjustments  (30) (54) 
Total APM adjustments  (231) 254 
Adjusted net profit from continuing operations  858 711 
Profit attributable to non -controlling interests  (3) 2 
Dividend on Cumulative Preference Shares  (6) (7) 
. 
Adjusted net profit from continuing operations available to holders of ordinary shares  849 706 
Below table reflects the earnings per share (EPS) related to continuing operations and to total earnings including 
discontinued operations.  
2021 2020 
Continuing  
operations  Total  Continuing  
operations  Total  
Earnings per share (EPS)  
Average number of ordinary shares outstanding (x 1,000)  172,648  171,536  
Effect of dilution due to share options (x 1,000)  747 896 
Adjusted average number of ordinary shares outstanding (x 
1,000)  173,395  172,432  
. 
x € million  
Net profit available to holders of ordinary shares  1,080  1,670  452 499 
Adjusted net profit available to holders of ordinary shares  849 869 706 760 
. 
in € 
Net basic EPS  6.26 9.68 2.64 2.91 
Net diluted EPS  6.23 9.63 2.62 2.89 
Adjusted net basic EPS  4.92 5.03 4.12 4.43 
Adjusted net diluted EPS  4.90 5.01 4.09 4.41 Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  215 Alternative performance measures 
2021 2,020  
Capital employed  
Intangible assets  5,310  4,440  
Property, plant and equipment  3,957  3,775 
Investment grants / drawing rights  (111) (112) 
Inventories  2,297  1,879  
Current receivables  1,696  1,483  
Current liabilities  (2,188)  (1,771)  
Capital employed at 31 December  10,961  9,694  
Average capital employed  
Capital employed at 1 January  9,694  8,428  
Capital employed at 31 March  10,033  8,422  
Capital employed at 30 June  10,064  9,024  
Capital employed at 30 September  10,414  9,018  
Capital employed at 31 December  10,961  9,694  
Average capital employed  10,233  8,918  
Adjusted operating profit, continuing operations  1,139 929 
ROCE in %, continuing operations  11.1 10.4 
Cash provided by operating activities  1,427 1,494  
Cash impact APM adjustments  91 87 
Capital expenditure (570)  (609)  
Payments regarding drawing rights  (7) (17) 
Adjusted net operating free cash flow  941 955 
Adjusted net operating free cash flow, continuing operations  949 872 
3 Change in the scope of the consolidation  
Acquisitions  
In 202 1, DSM acquired businesses for a total consideration of €757 million (in 20 20: €1,579  million).  
Amyris F&F bio -based intermediates business  
On 31 March 2021 , DSM Nutritional Products acquired the flavor and fragrance  (F&F) bio-based intermediates business of 
Amyris, Inc., which extends DSM's offerings in aroma ingredients with bio -based ingredients for the flavor and fragrance 
and cosmetics industries , for an upfront consideration of €128 million. Amyris will share in the EBITDA growth over the 
period 2021 –2024 of certain activities (mainly products just launched  and under development), which is estimated to result 
in a total earn -out amount in the range of €85–€128 million.  
In accordance with IFRS 3 (Business Combinations) , the purchase price was allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities 
acquired, resulting in a tax-deductible goodwill amount of €29 million  and technology intangible assets of €167  million.  
The acquisition of the F&F bio -based business contributed €14 million to net sales , -€3 million  to operating profit and €5 
million to Adjusted EBITDA during a period of nine months  in 202 1. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 202 1, 
additional net sales would have been approximately €19 million , operating pr ofit -€4 million and Adjusted EBITDA €7 
million.  
Midori USA  
On 26 July 2021 , DSM Nutritional Products acquired the remaining 63.5% stake in Midori USA, Inc., a biotechnology start -up 
with a novel precision platform developing breakthrough targeted eubiotic s that improve the health and reduce the Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  216 environmental impact of animals , in a step acquisition for a cash consideration of €52 million. Contributing the fair value 
of the previously held equity interest to this transaction of €22 million brings the total consideration to €74 million.  
In accordance with IFRS 3, the purchase price was allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities acquired,  resulting in a 
non-tax-deductible goodwill amount of € 55 million  and technology intangible assets of € 30 millio n. 
The acquisition of Midori did not contribute to net sales ; operating profit amounted to -€1 million and Adjusted EBITDA -€1 
million  during a period of five months  in 202 1. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 202 1, operating profit would 
have be en -€3 million and Adjusted EBITDA -€2 million.  
First Choice Ingredients  
On 18 October 2021 , DSM Food Specialties acquired 100% of the shares of First Choice Ingredients, Inc. in Germantown 
(Wisconsin, USA), a company develop ing, produc ing and market ing clean label dairy -based flavor solutions obtained 
through fermentative processes , for a cash consideration of €394 million.  
In accordance with IFRS 3, the purchase price was provisionally allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities acquired  and 
is based  on a draft initial purchase price allocation prepared by an independent valuator. Completion of the independent 
valuation process is expected in 2022. Main intangibles provisionally recognized are customer relationships for about €100 
million  and technolo gy for €83  million . The acquisition is expected to result in tax-deductible goodwill to the amount of  
€190 million.  
The acquisition of First Choice Ingredients contributed €13 million to net sales , €1 million to operating profit and €4 million 
to Adjusted EBITDA during a period of three months  in 202 1. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 202 1, additional 
net sales would have been €64 million , operating profit €7 million and Adjusted EBITDA  €19 million.  
Vestkorn Milling  
On 16 December 2021 , DSM Food Specialties acquired a 100% interest in Vestkorn Milling, headquartered in Tau, Norway. 
Vestkorn Milling is a producer and supplier of plant -based proteins, fibers, starches and cereals used in f ood and pet food 
products. The consideration consists of an upfront cash payment of €42 million and an additional earn -out amount 
between €15 and €43  million , depending on the gross profit of the acquired business over the period 202 2–2024, to be paid 
out in 2025.  
In accordance with IFRS 3, the purchase price was provisionally allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, 
pending  completion of an independent valuation process. The provisional non -tax-deductible goodwill amounts to €71 
million.  
The acquisition of Vestkorn Milling did not yet contribute to net sales and Adjusted EBITDA  in 20 21. If the acquisition had 
occurred on 1 January 202 1, additional net sales would have been €27 million , operating profit €1 million and Adjusted 
EBITDA €2 million. 
Finalization PPA Erber  
In the reporting year, the Purchase Price Allocation (PPA) related to the Erber acquisition in 2020 was finalized, resulting in 
an additional allocation of € 37 million to intangible assets , mainly for customer relations and tec hnology, a decrease of 
the goodwill amount by -€51 million  and an increase of other net assets by €14 million . The comparative information for 
the reference year has been adjusted for these measurement period adjustments. As the impact on the profit and loss 
account is negligible, no comparative information has been adjusted . 
Valuation techniques intangible assets  
Part of a Purchase Price Allocat ion is the recognition of intangible assets  which are recognized apart from goodwill . The 
valuation techniques DSM used for measuring the fair value of these intangible assets  in 2021 were as follows:  
The acquired t echnology was valued by applying the mult i-period excess earnings method (MEEM)  considering the present 
value of net cash flows expected to be generated by the technology and customer relationships; or by applying the relief -
from -royalty method, an income approach whereby the value of an asset is  estimated by capitalizing the royalties saved as Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  217 a result of owning the asset ; or by applying the replacement cost approach, measuring the cost necessary to 
(hypothetically) recreate these intangible assets.  
The fair values of c ustomer relationships and s upply agreements were determined by applying the MEEM or via the 
replacement cost approach.  
Databases  were valued applying the relief -from -royalty method . 
Summary a cquisitions in 2021 
The accounting of the acquisitions upon closing impacted DSM’s consolidated balance sheet 202 1 as shown in below table 
(measured at the date of acquisition) . 
Amyris  
F&F Midori  
USA First Choice 
Ingredients 
(provisional)  Vestkorn  
Milling  
(provisional)  Other 
acquisitions  Total  
Book 
value  Fair 
value  Book 
value  Fair 
value  Book 
value  Fair 
value  Book 
value  Fair 
value  Book 
value  Fair 
value  Book 
value  Fair 
value  
Assets  
Intangible assets  - 167 - 30 - 183 -  -  1  13  1  393  
Property, plant and equipment  - -  - -  5  5  7  7  -  -  12  12  
Other non -current assets  - -  - -  -  -  -  -  (2) (2) (2) (2)
Inventories  1  1  - -  10 12  6  6  -  -  17  19  
Receivables  1  1  - -  9 9  4  4  -  -  14  14  
Cash and cash equivalents  - -  - -  6  6  1  1  -  -  7  7  
Total assets  2  169  - 30 30  215  18  18  (1) 11 49  443  
Liabilities  
Non-current liabilities  - -  - 8  -  -  4  4  -  -  4  12  
Current liabilities  - -  3 3  11  11  11  11  1  1  26 26 
Total liabilities  - -  3 11  11  11  15  15  1  1  30  38  
Net assets  2  169  (3) 19 19  204  3  3  (2) 10 19  405  
Acquisition price (in cash)  128  52  394  42  8  624  
Fair value of associate contributed  - 22 -  -  1  23 
Acquisition price (payable)  70  -  -  32  8  110  
Consideration  198  74 394  74 17  757  
Goodwill  29 55  190  71 7  352  
Acquisition costs recognized in APM adjustments  (1) - (4) (1) (15) (21) 
Divestments  
In the reporting year, DSM divested certain businesses in the segments Materials and Innovation for a total consideration 
of €1,609 million.  
Resins & Functional Materials and associated businesses (RFM)  
On 1 April 2021, DSM completed the divestment of the Resins & Functional Materials and associated businesses (together 
‘RFM’) to Covestro AG . Prior to this divestment, DSM reclassified  the results of these businesses  (the ‘disposal group’)  to 
‘discontinued operations’ , and reclassified all related  assets and liabilities as held for sale  on 30 September 2020.  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  218 Summary divestments 2021  
See below table for the book result of the divestments that took place in 2021.  
x € million  RFM 
business  Other  Total  
Assets  
Intangible assets  (439) - (439)  
Property, plant and equipment  (361) - (361) 
Other non -current assets  (10) - (10) 
Inventories  (122) (4) (126) 
Receivables  (192) (4) (196)  
Cash and cash equivalents  (76) - (76) 
Total assets  (1,200)  (8) (1,208)
Liabilities  
Provisions  (17) - (17) 
Non-current liabilities  (18) - (18) 
Current liabilities  (180) (1) (181) 
Total liabilities  (215) (1) (216) 
. 
Net assets  (985) (7) (992)  
Non-controlling interest  (23) - (23) 
Net assets DSM shareholders  (962) (7) (969)  
. 
Consideration (net of selling costs, translation differences 
and net debt)  1,602  7 1,609  
. 
Book result 2021  640 - 640
Income tax  (70) - (70) 
Net book result  570 - 570Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  219 Impact on comprehensive income  
The impact of the business that has been presented as discontinued operations in the income statement and statement of 
comprehensive income, is presented in the below tables.  
2021 2020 
Continuing  
operations  Discontinued  
operations  Total  Continuing  
operations  Discontinued  
operations  Total  
Net sales  9,204  264 9,468  8,106  932 9,038  
Adjusted EBITDA  1,814 28 1,842  1,534  116 1,650  
EBITDA  1,702 668 2,370  1,368  108 1,476  
Total expenses  8,183  (404) 7,779 7,444  858 8,302  
Adjusted operating profit  1,139 28 1,167 929 82 1,011 
Operating profit  1,021 668 1,689  662 74 736 
Financial income and expense  (106) - (106)  (67) - (67) 
Profit before income tax expense  915 668 1,583  595 74 669 
Income tax expense  (168) (77) (245)  (106) (23) (129) 
Results related to associates and 
joint ventures  342 - 342 (32) - (32) 
Net profit for the year  1,089  591 1,680  457 51 508 
Of which:  
-Attributable to non -controlling
interests 3 1 4 (2) 4 2 
-Dividend on Cumulative Preference
Shares 6 - 6 7 - 7
-Available to holders of ordinary
shares 1,080  590 1,670  452 47 499 
Earnings per share (EPS)  
-Net basic EPS 6.26 3.42 9.68 2.64 0.27 2.91 
-Net diluted EPS 6.23 3.40 9.63 2.62 0.27 2.89 
The Operating profit in Discontinued operations amounting to €668 million comprises the regular activities of the RFM 
business in the first quarter of the reporting year (€28 million) and the book profit on the sale of the RFM business on 1 
April 2021 (€640 million).  
2021 2020 
Net profit from discontinued operations  591 51 
Other comprehensive income  
Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans  - (1) 
Tax related items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss  - - 
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss  - (1) 
. 
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations  
-Change for the year 4 (4) 
Hedging reserve  
-Change for the year - 1 
Tax related items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss  - - 
Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss  4 (3) 
. 
Total comprehensive income discontinued operations  595 47 
Of which:  
-Attributable to non-controlling interests 3 4 
-Available to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 592 43 Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  220 Impact on cash flow statement  
The impact of the business that has been included as discontinued operations in the cash flow statement is shown in the 
following table.  
2021 2020 
Net cash provided by / (used in):  
-Operating activities (1) 134 
-Investing activities 1,404  (47) 
Net change in cash and cash equivalents  1,403  87 
See also Note 26 Notes to the cash flow statement . 
Assets and liabilities held for sale  
DSM is committed to the sale of its Pentapharm business, and therefore classified end of 2021 the assets and liabilities as 
held for sale.  
Impact o n balance sheet  
The impact of the reclassification of these activities on the DSM consolidated balance sheet is presented in the following 
table.  
x € million  2021 
Assets  
Non-current assets  
Property, plant and equipment  27 
Current assets  
Inventories  23 
Receivables  6 
Total assets  56 
Liabilities  
Non-current liabilities 5 
Current liabilities  5 
Total liabilities  10 
Net assets  46 
Other changes  
In 20 21, the following changes in DSM ’s share in subsidiaries occurred without impacting the classification of the 
participations.  
2021 2020 
DSM Rainbow (Inner Mongolia) Biotechnology Co., Ltd.  100.0%  65.2%  
See also Note 16 Equity . 
4 Segment information  
In 2021, DSM’s reportable operating segments were Nutrition, Materials and the Innovation Center, as mentioned in Note 1 
General information . DSM has segmented its operations by business activity from which revenues are earned and 
expenses incurred. These operating results are regularly reviewed by the entity’s chief operating decision maker (CODM) to 
make decisions about resources to be allocated to the operating segment and assess its pe rformance. DSM uses Adjusted Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  221 EBITDA as the main indicator to evaluate the consolidated performance as well as the performance per operating segment. 
Discrete financial information is available for each identified operating segment.  
The accounting policies  of the operating segments are the same as those described in the Summary of significant 
accounting policies . Transactions between segments are generally executed at market -based prices. Interest income, 
interest expense, and income tax expense or income are not allocated to segments as these amounts are not included in 
the measure of segment profit or loss revi ewed by the CODM, or otherwise regularly provided to the CODM.  
Our operating segment Nutrition serves the global industries for animal feed, food & beverage, pharmaceuticals, infant 
nutrition, dietary supplements, and personal care. It does so by the produ ction of pure active ingredients, their 
incorporation into sophisticated forms, and the provision of tailored premixes and forward solutions.  
Our operating segment Materials is a global player in specialty plastics, which are used in components for the ele ctrical 
and electronics, automotive, flexible food -packaging, and consumer goods industries. Furthermore, Materials is a global 
player in providing innovative and sustainable ultra -strong, ultra -light Dyneema® fiber and fabrics.  
Our operating segment Innov ation Center focuses on innovation and the growth of DSM’s existing core business through 
adjacent technologies via its Corporate Research Program as well as through the company’s venturing and licensing 
activities. Additionally, it identifies and invests in new and innovative growth options. The Innovation Center is responsible 
for developing and extracting value from DSM’s Emerging Business Areas.  
Any consolidated activities outside the three reportable operating segments above are reported as the reporta ble segment 
‘Corporate Activities’. These mainly comprise operating and service activities as well as several costs that cannot be 
allocated to the operating segments.  
DSM does not have a single external customer that represents 10% or more of total sales.  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  222 Geographical information  
Nether - 
lands  Switzer - 
land Rest of 
Europe  North 
America  Latin 
America  China  Rest of  
Asia Rest of  
the world  Total  
2020 
Net sales by origin  
In € million  1,515  2,260  1,042   1,380   608 885 336  80  8,106   
In % 19  28 13  17  7  11  4  1  100  
Net sales by destination  
In € million  407  214  2,125 1,791  1,045   991  1,268   265 8,106   
In % 5  3  26 22 13  12  16  3  100  
Workforce at year -end (headcount)¹  3,858   2,129   4,384   3,185   2,243  5,025  1,996   307  23,127   
Average workforce (FTE)¹  3,708   2,135   3,625   3,195   2,108  4,950   1,803   291  21,815   
Intangible assets and Property, plant and 
equipment 
Capital expenditure  110  159  114  76 15  93  4  2  573  
Carrying amount  1,614   1,452   2,097   1,742  282 810  188  30  8,215   
Total assets (including assets held for sale)  4,084   2,125 2,676  2,552   776 1,382   639  112  14,346   
. 
2021 
Net sales by origin  
In € million  1,860   2,370   1,336   1,310   666  1,177  387  98  9,204  
In % 20 26 15  14  7  13  4  1  100  
Net sales by destination  
In € million  374  163  2,644   1,916   1,198   1,187  1,438   284 9,204  
In % 4  2  28  21 13  13  16  3  100  
Workforce at year-end (headcount)  3,006  2,174  4,161   3,018   2,290   4,704   1,709   296  21,358   
Average workforce (FTE)¹  3,040   2,099   4,065   2,971  2,255  4,768   1,771  299  21,268   
Intangible assets and Property, plant and 
equipment 
Capital expenditure  108  147  162  87  20 77  5  2  608  
Carrying amount  1,990   1,733  2,073  2,201  291  836  113  30  9,267   
Total assets (including assets held for sale)  4,566   2,593   2,738   3,116  864  1,459   576  101  16,013   
1 Refers to total group, including discontinued operations.  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  223 Business segments  
2021 Nutrition  Materials  Innovation  
Center  Corporate  
Activities  Eliminations  Total  
Financial performance  
Net sales  7,031  1,935  168 70 -9,204
Supplies to other clusters  46 12 18 (76) -
Supplies  7,077 1,947  186 70 (76) 9,204
. 
Adjusted EBITDA¹  1,447  435 26 (94) -  1,814
EBITDA  1,396  414 17 (125) -  1,702
Adjusted operating profit¹  940 331 4 (136) -  1,139
Operating profit  889 310 (10) (168) -1,021
Depreciation and amortization  484 100 23 39 - 646
Impairments  22 3 10 - - 35 
-of which included in APM adjustments - - 6 - - 6 
Additions to provisions  8 16 15 32 - 71
Result related to associates and joint ventures  (3) - 1 344 - 342
R&D costs²  194 59 39 31 - 323
Employee benefit costs  1,233 253 65 259 -1,810
Financial position  
Total assets  11,002  1,570  566 2,819  56³ 16,013  
Total liabilities  2,744  495 63 3,304  10³ 6,616  
Capital employed at year -end 9,550  1,005  407 (1) -  10,961
Capital expenditure  488 65 2 53 - 608
Share in equity of associates and joint ventures  38 3 1 22 - 64
Adjusted EBITDA margin (in %)  20.6 22.5 - - - 19.7 
Workforce  
Average in fte  15,623  2,815  498 1,902  430³ 21,268  
Year-end (headcount)  16,091  2,885  578 1,804  21,358  
1 See Note 2 Alternative performance measures  for the reconciliation to Adjusted EBITDA of € 1,814 million (20 20: €1,534 million) and other 
IFRS performance measures.  
2 R&D costs relate to the functional area Research & Development and exclude R&D costs included in the functional areas Cost of  sales 
and Marketing & Sales as well as R&D expenditure capitalized.  
3 The figures presented under ‘eliminations’ relate to the assets and liabilities reclassified as held for sale and the workfor ce for the 
discontinued operations.  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  224 Business segments  
2020 Nutrition  Materials  Innovation 
Center  Corporate 
Activities  Eliminations  Total  
Financial performance  
Net sales  6,365  1,518 184 39 -8,106
Supplies to other clusters  53 8 21 (82) -
Supplies  6,418  1,526  205 39 (82) 8,106
. 
Adjusted EBITDA¹  1,338  272 21 (97) -  1,534
EBITDA  1,211 249 6 (98) -  1,368
Adjusted operating profit¹  919 168 (17) (141) - 929
Operating profit  792 145 (133) (142) - 662
Depreciation and amortization  407 99 38 43 - 587
Impairments  13 4 101 1 - 119
-of which included in APM adjustments - - 101 - - 101 
Additions to provisions  70 19 8 7 - 104
Results related to associates and joint ventures  (1) - (84) 53 - (32)
R&D costs²  169 60 145 24 - 398
Employee benefit costs  1,102 226 83 273 -1,684
Financial position  
Total assets  9,477  1,035  599 2,139  1,096³  14,346  
Total liabilities  2,451  379 37 3,738  254³ 6,859  
Capital employed at year -end 8,305  953 436 - - 9,694  
Capital expenditure  441 63 35 34 - 573
Share in equity of associates and joint ventures  30 3 2 58 - 93
Adjusted EBITDA margin (in %)  21.0 17.9 18.9 
Workforce  
Average in fte  14,535  2,852  613 2,012  1,803³  21,815  
Year-end (headcount)  15,838  2,857  579 2,039  1,814³  23,127  
1 See Note 2 Alternative performance measures  for the reconciliation to Adjusted EBITDA of €1, 534 million and other IFRS performance 
measures.  
2 R&D costs relate to the functional area Research & Development and exclude R&D costs included in the functional areas Cost of sales 
and Marketing & Sales as w ell as R&D expenditure capitalized.  
3 The figures presented under ‘eliminations’ relate to the assets and liabilities reclassified as held for sale and the workfor ce for the 
discontinued operations.  
5 Net sales and costs (continuing operations)  
Net sales  
2021 2020 
Goods sold  8,992  7,931 
Services rendered  197 158 
Royalties  15 17 
Total  9,204  8,106  
Fulfillment of the performance obligations related to goods sold is measured using the commercial shipment terms as an 
indicator for the transfer of control. Fulfillment of the performance obligations for services rendered is identified 
according to the individual contract. The payment terms are determined per business segment on a customer basis. DSM 
has neither specific obligations for returns or refunds, nor specific warranties or other related obligations.  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  225 Disaggregation of net sales  
2021 2020 
Nutrition  
-Animal Nutrition & Health 3,502  3,025  
-Human Nutrition & Health 2,207  2,143  
-Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients 484 404 
-Other 122 145 
DSM Nutritional Products  6,315  5,717 
DSM Food Specialties  716 648 
Total Nutrition  7,031  6,365  
Materials  
DSM Engineering Materials  1,600  1,217 
DSM Protective Materials  335 301 
Total Materials  1,935  1,518 
Innovation Center  168 184 
Corporate Activities  70 39 
Total  9,204  8,106  
Total costs  
In 2021, total operating costs amounted to €8.2 billion,  €0.8 billion higher than in 2020, when these costs stood at €7.4 
billion. Total operating costs in 202 1 included Cost of sales amounting to €6.0 billion (20 20: €5.3 billion); gross margin as a 
percentage of net sales stood at 34% (20 20: 34%). 
Employee benefit costs  
2021 2020 
Wages and salaries  1,494  1,373 
Social security costs  178 164 
Pension costs (see also Note 24)  116 118 
Share -based compensation (see also Note 27)  22 29 
Total  1,810  1,684  
Depreciation, amortization  and impairments  
2021 2020 
Amortization of intangible assets  221 193 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment owned  374 344 
Depreciation of right -of-use assets  51 50 
Impairment losses  35 119 
Total  681 706 Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  226 Other operating income  
2021 2020 
Release of provisions  24 11 
Gain on sale of assets and activities  13 - 
Insurance benefits  11 29 
Amendments / settlements to pension plans  9 - 
Earn-out payments and other settlements  2 7 
Legal and other settlements  2 23 
Sundry  34 32 
Total  95 102 
Other operating expense  
2021 2020 
Additions to provisions  67 93 
Exchange differences  7 18 
Acquisitions / Disposals  25 55 
Sundry  29 34 
Total  128 200 
6 Financial income and expense  
2021 2020 
Financial income  
Interest income  3 17 
Fair value change in derivatives  10 27 
Sundry  11 - 
Total financial income  24 44 
Financial expense  
Interest expense  (91) (90) 
Interest relating to lease liabilities  (5) (6) 
Interest relating to defined benefit plans  (2) (4) 
Fair value change in derivatives  (17) - 
Capitalized interest during construction  4 6 
Exchange differences  - (4) 
Unwinding of discounted payables  (16) (4) 
Sundry  (3) (9) 
Total financial expense  (130)  (111) 
Financial income and expense  (106)  (67) 
In 2021, the interest rate applied in the capitalization of interest during construction was 3% for the first 6 months and 
2.5% for the last 6 months (2020: 3%).  
Financial income and expense remained roughly stable excluding the impact of the fair value c hange in derivatives.  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  227 7 Income tax  
The income tax expense on continuing operations was € 168 million, which represents an effective income tax rate of 18.4% 
(2020: €106 million, representing an effective income tax rate of 17.9%). The amount excludes tax expense from 
discontinued operations of € 77 million (20 20: €23 million) and can be broken down  as follows . 
2021 2020 
Current tax expense:  
-Current year (120) (155) 
-Prior -year adjustments 1 8 
-Tax credits compensated 4 4 
-Non-recoverable withholding tax (7) (2) 
Total current tax expense  (122) (145) 
Deferred tax expense:  
-Originating from temporary differences and their reversal (3) 47 
-Prior -year adjustments 5 (5) 
-Change in tax rate 4 (2) 
-Changes arising from write -down of deferred tax assets (18) (3) 
-Changes in previously and newly recognized tax losses and tax credits (21) (7) 
-Other changes in tax losses and tax credits (13) 9 
Total deferred tax expense  (46) 39 
Total tax expense  (168)  (106)  
Of which related to:  
-Taxable result excl. APM adjustments (198)  (160)  
-APM adjustments 30 54 
The relationship between the income tax rate in the Netherlands and the effective tax rate on the taxable result  can be 
explained as follows . 
Effective tax rate  
In % 2021 2020 
Domestic income tax rate  25.0 25.0 
Tax effects of:  
-Deviating rates (4.9) (5.2) 
-Change in tax rates (0.4) 0.2 
-Tax-exempt income and non -deductible expense (3.1) (2.4) 
-Other effects 2.6 0.9 
Effective tax rate taxable result, excl. APM adjustments  19.2 18.5 
APM adjustments (see Note 2)  (0.8) (0.6) 
Total effective tax rate  18.4 17.9 
The total effective tax rate on the taxable result in 2021 was 18.4% (2020: 17.9%), excluding APM adjustments this was 19.2% 
(2020: 18.5%).  
The effective tax rate in 202 1 was positively impacted by the geographical spread and the tax -exempt income under local 
tax law in various countries.  
The increase of the effective tax rate excluding APM adjustments was mainly due to uncertainties under local l aws, partly 
compensated by higher tax -exempt income in several countries and the higher tax rate in the Netherlands as of 2022.  
The balance of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities increased by €91 million owing to the changes presented 
in the following table.  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  228 Deferred tax assets and liabilities  
2021 2020 
Balance at 1 January  
Deferred tax assets  240 217 
Deferred tax liabilities  (431) (296)  
Total  (191) (79) 
Changes:  
-Income tax income / (expense) in income statement (77) 45 
-Income tax: change in tax percentage 4 (4) 
-Income tax: tax result share in associates - 22 
Total income statement  (73) 63 
-Income tax expense in OCI (13) (1) 
-Acquisitions and disposals (7) (185) 
-Consolidation changes (3) - 
- Exchange differences  (11) 11 
-Reclassification to held for sale 9 (2) 
-Transfer 7 2 
Balance at 31 December  (282)  (191) 
Of which:  
-Deferred tax assets 203 240 
-Deferred tax liabilities (485)  (431) 
In various countries, DSM has taken standpoints regarding its tax position which may at any time be challenged, or have 
already been challenged, by the tax authorities, because the authorities in question interpret the law differently. These 
uncertainties are taken into account in determining the probability of realization of deferred tax assets and liabilities.  
The deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to the following balance sheet items.  
Deferred tax assets and liabilities by balance sheet item  
2021 2020 
Deferred tax  
assets  Deferred tax  
liabilities  Deferred tax  
assets  Deferred tax  
liabilities  
Intangible assets  19 (368)  22 (348)  
Property, plant and equipment  19 (175) 27 (173) 
Right -of-use assets  - (38) - (44)
Financial assets  33 (25) 28 (15) 
Inventories  56 (39) 51 (42) 
Receivables  6 (22) 14 (24) 
Lease liabilities non -current  31 - 33 - 
Other non -current liabilities  16 (2) 12 (2) 
Non-current provisions  70 - 94 (4) 
Other current liabilities  83 (4) 66 (6) 
Lease liabilities current  11 - 10 - 
344 (673)  357 (658)  
Tax losses carried forward  47 110 
Set-off (188) 188 (227) 227
Total  203 (485)  240 (431) 
No deferred tax assets were recognized for loss carryforwards amounting to € 203 million (20 20: €267 million).  Unrecognized  
loss carryforwards amounting to €98 million will expire in the years up to and including 2026 (2020: €134 million up to and 
including 202 5), €37 million between 202 7 and 20 31 (2020: €71 million between 202 6 and 20 30) and the remaining € 68 
million in 2032 and beyond (2020: €62 million between 2031 and beyond). In addition, an amount of € 23 million (2020: €15 
million) of withholding taxes were unrecognized.  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  229 The valuation of deferred tax assets depends on the probability of the reversal of temporary differenc es and the utilization 
of tax loss carryforwards, tax credits and withholding tax. Deferred tax assets are recognized for future tax benefits arisin g 
from temporary differences and for tax loss carryforwards to the extent that the tax benefits are probable . As of 1 January 
2022, tax losses may be carried forward indefinitely in the Netherlands, and loss compensation is allowed up to €1 million 
a year. Above €1 million, losses can be compensated only for 50%.  DSM has to assess the likelihood that deferred ta x 
assets will be recovered from future taxable profits. Deferred tax assets are reduced if, and to the extent that, it is not 
probable that all or some portion of the deferred tax assets will be realized. In the event that actual future results differ  
from  estimates, and depending on tax strategies that DSM may be able to implement, changes to the measurement of 
deferred taxes could be required, which could have an impact on the company's financial position and profit for the year.  
8 Intangible assets  
Goodwill  Licenses 
and patents  Under 
construction  Development 
projects  Other  Total  
Balance at  1 January 2020  
Cost 2,301  216 71 338 1,966  4,892  
Amortization and impairment losses  18 116 - 71 1,172 1,377 
Carrying amount  2,283  100 71 267 794 3,515  
Changes in carrying amount:  
-Capital expenditure - 1 77 42 43 163 
-Put into operation - 11 (59) - 48 - 
- Acquisitions  729 3 36 34 870 1,672 
-Amortization - (13) - (35) (152) (200)
-Impairment losses (20) (14) - (74) (2) (110)
-Exchange differences (138) (2) - - (28) (168)  
-Reclassification to held for sale (387) (3) (1) (28) (18) (437)
-Other - (2) (9) 17 (1) 5
184 (19) 44 (44) 760 925 
Balance at 31 December 2020  
Cost 2,487  202 115 380 2,654  5,838  
Amortization and impairment losses  20 121 - 157 1,100  1,398  
Carrying amount  2,467  81 115 223 1,554  4,440  
. 
Changes in carrying amount:  
-Capital expenditure - 1 85 48 3 137 
-Drawing rights - - - - 21 21 
-Put into operation - - (45) - 45 - 
- Acquisitions  352 12 - - 381 745 
-Amortization - (15) - (28) (178) (221)
-Impairment losses (5) (1) - (11) (2) (19)
-Exchange differences 138 6 1 7 49 201 
-Reclassification to held for sale (1) - - (1) - (2) 
-Transfers - 31 - - (31) - 
- Other  - - - 2 6 8 
484 34 41 17 294 870 
Balance at 31 December 2021  
Cost 2,965  236 156 414 3,148  6,919  
Amortization and impairment losses  14 121 - 174 1,300  1,609  
Carrying amount  2,951  115 156 240 1,848  5,310  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  230 The amortization of intangible assets is included in Cost of sales, Marketing & Sales, Research & Development and General 
& Administrative expenses.  
Over the past few years, DSM has acquired several entities in business combinations that have been accounted for by the 
acquisition method, resulting in recognition of goodwill and other intangible assets. The amounts assigned to the acquired 
assets and liabilities are based on assumptions and estimates about their fair value s. In making these estimates, 
management consults independent, qualified appraisers if appropriate.  
The impairment losses in 2020 related mainly to impairments of intangible assets relating to DSM Bio -based Products & 
Services and DSM Advanced Solar. For further information, see also Note 2 Alternative performance measures .  
The breakdown of the carrying amount of goodwill at year -end 2021 is as follows . 
Goodwill per acquisition  
Acquisition  2021 2020 Cash generating unit  Functional 
Currency  Year of 
acquisition  
Erber Group  470 470 DSM Nutritional Products  EUR 2020 
Martek  410 378 DSM Nutritional Products  USD 2011 
Glycom  345 344 DSM Nutritional Products  DKK 2020 
Fortitech  307 283 DSM Nutritional Products  USD 2012 
Ocean Nutrition Canada  207 190 DSM Nutritional Products  CAD 2012 
First Choice Ingredients¹  194 - DSM Food Specialties USD 2021 
Andre Pectin  147 131 DSM Food Specialties  CNY 2019 
Kensey Nash  143 132 DSM Biomedical  USD 2012 
The Polymer Technology Group  77 71 DSM Biomedical  USD 2008  
Yimante  74 66 DSM Nutritional Products  CNY 2019 
Vestkorn Milling¹  70 - DSM Food Specialties NOK 2021 
Tortuga  62 62 DSM Nutritional Products  BRL 2013 
Midori  58 - DSM Nutritional Products USD 2021 
Other acquisitions  387 340 
Total  2,951  2,467  
1 Based on provisional PPA, see  Note 3 Change in the scope of the consolidation . 
Goodwill per Cash generating unit  
Cash generating unit  2021 2020 
DSM Nutritional Products  2,145  1,970  
DSM Food Specialties  511¹ 227 
DSM Biomedical  224 203 
DSM Protective Materials  43 40 
DSM Engineering Materials  28 27 
Total  2,951  2,467  
1 Contains provisional PPA, see Note 3 Change in the scope of the consolidation . 
The annual impairment tests of goodwill are performed in the fourth quarter. The recoverable amount of the Cash 
generating units (CGUs) is base d on a value -in-use calculation. DSM Nutritional Products and DSM Food Specialties are the 
CGUs to which a significant amount of goodwill is allocated.  
The cash flow projections are derived from DSM’s business plan as adopted by the Managing Board and updated 
periodically for example when the strategy is updated. Mature businesses come to a terminal value after five years. The 
terminal value growth rate is determined with the assumption of limited inflationary growth. For emerging businesses, an 
explici t forecast period of ten years is used with the same assumption for growth in the terminal value. The key 
assumptions in the cash flow projections relate to the market growth for the CGUs and the related revenue projections, 
EBITDA developments, and the ra tes used for discounting cash flows.  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  231 Key assumptions for goodwill impairment tests  
2021 2020 
Forecast period (years)  
-Mature business 5 5 
-Emerging business 10 10 
Terminal value growth  1% 1% 
Pre-tax discount rate  
-DSM Nutritional Products 8.6% 9.1% 
-DSM Food Specialties 9.0% - 
Organic sales growth  
DSM Nutritional Products  
-Year 1 —5 4-7% 4-7%
DSM Food Specialties  
-Year 1 —5 4-6% - 
For DSM Nutritional Products the growth assumptions are based on the growth of the global food and feed markets , for 
DSM Food Specialties on the growth assumptions of the global food and beverage market . A sensitivity test was performed 
on the impairment tests of the CGUs and showed that the conclusions of these tests would  not have been different if a 
reasonable possible adverse change in key parameters had been assumed.  
The market capitalization of DSM at 31 December 202 1 amounted to €34,608 million (31 December 2020: €25,545  million)  
and was clearly above the carrying amo unt of net assets, thus providing an additional indication that goodwill was not 
impaired.  
Development costs  
The carrying amount of development costs at 31 December 2021 included €121 million (2020: €136 million), relating mainly 
to strategic projects whic h are not being amortized yet. The recoverable amount of these projects was estimated based on 
the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the projects (value -in-use).  
Other intangible assets  
2021 2020 
Cost Amortization  Carrying 
amount  Of which 
acquisition -
related  Of which 
acquisition -
related  
Application software  356 (274) 82 35 25 
Marketing -related  117 (52) 65 65 70 
Customer -related  1,130 (468) 662 662 656 
Technology -based  886 (161) 725 724 457 
Drawing rights  272 (110) 162 - - 
Other  387 (235) 152 68 115 
Total  3,148  (1,300)  1,848  1,554  1,323 
Total 2020  2,654  (1,100)  1,554  1,323 
Other intangible assets include (partially provisional) customer relationships, which were obtained during the acquisition 
of Erber Group and Glycom in 2020, as well as CSK in 2019 and Fortitech in 2012. Technology -based intangibles were mainly 
obtained vi a the acquisition of Erber Group and Glycom in 2020 and F&F Amyris and FCI in 2021. Intangible assets are 
amortized on a straight -line basis and subject to impairment trigger testing. There are no intangible assets with an 
indefinite useful life (same as i n 2020).   
Other intangible assets also include drawing rights contracts with Fibrant. Fibrant will continue to supply at least 80% of 
DSM Engineering Materials’ caprolactam needs in Europe and North America for 15 years (2015 –2030) via a drawing rights 
contract, effectively maintaining DSM Engineering Materials’ backward integration. Initially the fair value of this contract 
has been recognized as an intangible asset by DSM Engineering Materials; for subsequent measurement, the initial fair Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  232 value is the dee med cost of the asset, which is subject to straight -line amortization. In 2021 , an amount of €21 million was 
added due to a change in the projected deemed costs and a corresponding amount was added to the liability to Fibrant. At 
the end of 2021, the drawi ng rights had a carrying amount of €162 million (2020: €156 million), a remaining useful life of 9 
years, and an amount of €58 million was still payable to Fibrant for the acquisition of the drawing rights (2020: €39 
million).  
9 Property, plant and equipment  
Composition of Property, plant and equipment  
2021 2020 
Property, plant and equipment owned  3,769  3,567  
Right -of-use assets  188 208 
Total  3,957  3,775 Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  233 Property , plant  and equipment owned  
Land and 
buildings  Plant and 
machinery  Other 
equipment  Under 
construction  Not used for 
operating 
activities  Total  
Balance at 1 January 2020  
Cost 2,232  5,019  235 664 12 8,162  
Depreciation and impairments  1,021 3,151 175 1 6 4,354  
Carrying amount at 1 January 2020  1,211 1,868  60 663 6 3,808  
Changes in carrying amount:  
-Capital expenditure 10 58 5 386 - 459
-Put into operation 84 350 15 (449) - - 
-Acquisitions 95 90 10 8 2 205 
-Disposals - (1) - - - (1) 
-Depreciation (81) (269) (20) - - (370)  
-Impairment losses (4) (12) (1) (3) - (20)
-Exchange differences (53) (82) (3) (22) -(160)
-Reclassification to held for sale (103) (177) (12) (57) -(349)
-Other changes (1) (1) - (3) - (5)
(53) (44) (6) (140) 2 (241)
Balance at 31 December 2020  
Cost 2,099  4,781  192 527 8 7,607  
Depreciation and impairments  941 2,957  138 4 -4,040
Carrying amount at 31 December 2020  1,158 1,824  54 523 8 3,567  
. 
Changes in carrying amount:  
-Capital expenditure 7 52 4 414 - 477
-Put into operation 61 312 17 (390) - - 
-Acquisitions 5 7 - - - 12 
-Disposals and deconsolidations (22) (16) - - - (38) 
-Depreciation (78) (277) (19) - - (374) 
-Impairment losses (3) (11) (2) 2 - (14)
-Exchange differences 54 108 3 20 - 185
-Reclassification to held for sale (17) (13) (1) (2) - (33)
-Transfer to RoU assets (5) - - - - (5) 
-Other changes 2 (6) - (4) - (8) 
4 156 2 40 - 202
Balance at 31 December 2021  
Cost 2,108  5,490  219 564 8 8,389  
Depreciation and impairments  946 3,510  163 1 -4,620
Carrying amount at 31 December 2021  1,162 1,980  56 563 8 3,769  
In 202 1, impairment losses of € 14 million (20 20: €20 million) were recognized on Property, plant and equipment. See also 
Note 2 Alternative performance measures . Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  234 Right -of-use assets  
Land and 
buildings  Plant and 
machinery  Other 
equipment  Vehicles  Other  Total  
Balance at 1 January 2020  160 8 33 29 2 232 
Changes in carrying amount:  
New leases / terminations  10 - - 11 - 21
Remeasurements  12 - 2 (1) - 13 
Acquisitions  8 - - 1 - 9
Depreciation  (33) (1) (3) (14) - (51)
Exchange rate differences  (9) - (1) (2) - (12)
Reclassification to held for sale  (1) - - (3) - (4) 
(13) (1) (2) (8) - (24)
Balance at 31 December 2020  
Cost 199 9 37 39 3 287 
Depreciation and impairments  (52) (2) (6) (18) (1) (79)
Carrying amount at 31 December 2020  147 7 31 21 2 208 
. 
Changes in carrying amount:  
New leases / terminations  6 1 - 10 - 17
Remeasurements  (1) 1 2 - - 2 
Depreciation  (33) (1) (4) (12) (1) (51)
Impairment losses  (2) - - - - (2) 
Transfer from PPE  5 - - - - 5 
Exchange rate differences  7 1 1 1 - 10
Reclassification to held for sale  - (1) - - - (1) 
(18) 1 (1) (1) (1) (20)
Balance at 31 December 2021  129 8 30 20 1 188 
Cost 210 11 39 39 2 301 
Depreciation and impairments  (81) (3) (9) (19) (1) (113)
Carrying amount  129 8 30 20 1 188 
For the disclosures on the lease liabilities that correspond with the right -of-use assets, see Note 19 Borrowings . Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  235 10 Associates and joint arrangements  
Associates and joint ventures  
The following table analyses, in aggregate, the carrying amount and share of profit and other results of associates and 
joint ventures.  
2021 2020 
Associates  Joint ventures  Total  Total  
Balance at 1 January  89 4 93 155 
-Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures 15 - 15 (71) 
-Other comprehensive income 4 - 4 (6) 
-Capital payments 2 3 5 8 
-Dividends received (9) (1) (10) (1)
-Acquisitions - - - 1 
-Consolidation changes (17) - (17) -
- Disposals  (34) - (34) -
- Fair value adjustments  10 (2) 8 - 
- Other  (1) 1 - 7
Balance at 31 December  59 5 64 93 
On 27 July 2021, DSM acquired in a step acquisition the remaining shares of Midori USA, Inc. (see also  Note 3 Change in the 
scope of the consolidation ). Before the acquisition, DSM accounted for its 36.5% stake as an associate and applied equity 
accounting. This previously held equity interest was recognized at a book value of €12 million and was revalued to its fair 
value of €22 million on acquisition date.  The fair value step -up of €10 million was recognized in the income statement in 
Other results related to associates and joint ventures.  
On 15 October 2021, CVC Capital Partn ers sold its AOC specialty resins business, in which DSM is a minority shareholder, to 
an affiliate of Lone Star Funds. B efore the sale, DSM accounted for its share in AOC as an associate . DSM received an 
amount of €337 million in cash for its entire share holding and recognized a book profit of €303 million, which is included 
under ‘Other results related to associates and joint ventures’ in the income statement.  
Joint operations  
The operations Veramaris (2017) and Avansya (2019) are accounted for in accorda nce with IFRS 11 for joint operations. DSM 
therefore recognizes their amounts for the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses in accordance with the contractual 
entitlement and obligations of DSM.  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  236 11 Other financial assets  
Loans 
associates and 
joint ventures  Other 
participating 
interests  Other 
receivables  Other  Total  
Balance at 1 January 2020  3 150 103 7 263 
Changes:  
-Charged to the income statement - - - (2) (2)
-Acquisitions - - - 4 4 
-Disposals - (47) - - (47) 
-Capital payments - 11 - - 11 
-Loans granted / prepayments 1 - 8 - 9
-Repayments - - (5) 4 (1) 
-Exchange differences - - (10) - (10)
-Transfers - - (7) (4) (11)
-Changes in fair value - 106 - - 106 
-Other - (1) (6) - (7) 
Balance at 31 December 2020  4 219 83 9 315 
. 
Changes:  
-Charged to the income statement - - (14) (2) (16)
-Disposals - (123) - - (123) 
-Capital payments - 35 - - 35 
-Loans granted / prepayments - - 10 - 10
-Repayments / (receipts) - - (31) 1 (30) 
-Exchange differences - - 3 - 3
-Transfers (3) 14 (20) (4) (13) 
-Changes in fair value - 46 - - 46 
Balance at 31 December 2021  1 191 31 4 227 
‘Disposals’ includes the divestment of part of DSM’s minority share in Amyris, Inc. (€105 million) and other participating 
interests held by DSM Venturing (€18 million).  
‘Changes in fair value’ consists mainly of the value increase of our minority share in Amyris, Inc. (€68 million) and the fai r 
value adjustment of DSM’s share in BCPE Max Dutch JVCo B.V. (-€36 million). These changes are posted to the Fair value 
reserve in  Other comprehensive income.  
12 Inventories  
2021 2020 
Raw materials and consumables  621 491 
Intermediates and finished goods  1,758 1,467  
2,379  1,958  
Adjustments to lower net realizable value  (82) (79) 
Total  2,297  1,879  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  237 Changes in the adjustment to net realizable value  
2021 2020 
Balance at 1 January  (79) (81) 
Additions charged to income statement  (20) (18) 
Utilization / reversals  20 18 
Exchange differences  (3) 3 
Acquisition  - (2) 
Reclassification to held for sale  - 1 
Balance at 31 December  (82) (79) 
The carrying amount  of inventories adjusted to net realizable value was € 310 million (20 20: €263 million).  
13 Current receivables  
Information about the expected credit loss that relates to trade accounts receivable resulting in a loss allowance  is 
included under Credit risk in Note 23  Financial instruments and risks . 
Deferred items comprised € 39 million (20 20: €50 million) in prepaid expenses that include advance payments for any 
expenditure that would have otherwise been made during the next 12 months.  
14 Current investments  2021 2020 
Trade receivables  
Trade accounts receivable  1,391 1,183 
Other trade receivables  189 180 
Deferred items  34 45 
Receivables from associates  12 11 
1,626  1,419 
Expected credit loss  (23) (28) 
Total Trade receivables  1,603  1,391 
Income tax receivable  61 32 
Other current receivables  
Other taxes and social security contributions  20 26 
Employee -related receivables  - 2 
Acquisition -/disposal - related receivables  2 4 
Loans  - 16 
Other receivables  5 7 
Deferred items  5 5 
Total Other current receivables  32 60 
Total current receivables  1,696  1,483  
2021 2020 
Fixed term deposits  489 43 
Total  489 43 Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 202 1 238 All fixed -term deposits have been placed with institutions with a high credit rating in line with our counterparty policy.  The 
purpose of the deposits is either to meet short -term cash commitments, or to manage liquidity to such extent that yields 
are opti mized while allowing DSM sufficient freedom in fulfilling its (strategic) goals.   
In 2021 , fixed deposits increased due to the proceeds from the sale of our Resins & Functional Materials and associate d 
businesses to Covestro AG, completed  in April 2021.  
For more information regarding the counterparty policy, see Note 23 Financial instruments and risks . 
15 Cash and cash equivalents  
Deposits will be classified as ‘cash equivalent’ if held at banks with a maturity of less than three months at inception. 
Deposits will be classified as ‘current investments’ if the maturity is more than three months but less than or equal to one 
year. The purpose of the deposits is either to meet short -term cash commitments, or to manage liquidity to such extent, 
that yields are optimized, w hile allowing DSM sufficient freedom in fulfilling its (strategic) goals.  
Cash at year -end 2021 was not being used as collateral and therefore was not restricted (same as in 2020). 
In a few countries, DSM faces cross -border foreign exchange controls and/o r other legal restrictions that limit its ability to 
make these balances available at short notice for general use by the group. The amount of cash held in these countries 
was €87 million at year -end 2021 (2020: €128 million). The cash will generally be in vested or held in the relevant country 
and, given the other liquidity resources available to the group, does not significantly affect the ability of the group to me et 
its obligations.  
16 Equity  
2021 2020 
Balance at 1 January  7,487  7,835  
Net profit for the year  1,680  508 
Other comprehensive income  643 (323)  
Options / share units granted  22 29 
Dividend  (424)  (429)  
Proceeds from reissue of ordinary shares  193 206 
Acquisition of NCI without a change in control  (13) (32) 
Acquisition (divestment) of subsidiary with NCI  (24) (1) 
Repurchase of shares  (165) (309)  
Other changes  (2) 3 
Balance at 31 December  9,397  7,487  
‘Acquisition of NCI without a change in control’  in 2021 relates to the purchase of the remaining 35% non -controlling 
interest in DSM Rainbow (Inner Mongolia) Biotechnology Co., Ltd.  See Note 17 Non -controlling interests . 2021 2020 
Deposits  318 28 
Cash at bank and in hand  1,243  836 
Payments in transit  - 5 
Bills of exchange  - 2 
Total  1,561 871 Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  239 Dividend  
For the year  2021, the following dividends were proposed by the Managing Board . 
2021 2020 
Per cumulative preference share A: €0.13 (2020: €0.16)  6 7 
Per ordinary share: €2.50 (2020: €2.40)  432 413 
Total  438 420 
The proposed final dividend on ordinary shares is subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and 
has not been deducted from Equity.  
For a description of the rules of profit appropriation and of the statutory rights attached to Cumulative P reference Shares 
A and B, see Note 6  Shareholders’ equity  to the Parent company financial statements . 
Share capital  
On 31 December 202 1, the authorized capital amounted to €1,125 million (20 20: €1,125 million), distributed over 330,960,000 
ordinary shares, 44,040,000 Cumulative Preference Shares A and 375,000,000 Cumulative Preference Shares B. All shares 
have a nominal value of €1.50 each . The outstanding shares are entitled  to one vote per share at the General Meeting of 
Shareholders . All rights attached to the Company’s  shares held by the Group (treasury shares) are suspended until those 
shares ar e reissued.  
Every year the Managing Board, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, shall decide which part of the profit shall be 
set aside. Out of the profit remaining, a dividend based on EURIBOR plus a premium at the  company’s discretion , shall be 
distributed insofar as possible on the Cumulative Preference Shares B . From the amount remaining of the profit, a 
dividend shall be distributed insofar as possible on the Cumulative Preference Shares A, the percentage based on the  
effective return on govern ment loans, increased by a mark -up to be determined at the  company’s discretion . If, for any 
financial year, the distributions on the Cumulative Preference Shares B and A cannot be effected or cannot be fully 
effected because the profit after reservation d oes not suffice, the deficit shall be distributed to the debit of the following 
financial years. In that case, each time as much as possible, the overdue dividend, augmented by the dividend for the last 
expired financial year, shall be distributed, first o n Cumulative Preference Shares B and next on Cumulative Preference 
Shares A. The remaining profit shall be put at the disposal of the General Meeting  of Shareholders.  
In the period from April 2019 until June 2020, DSM repurchased 6,638,971  shares with the stated intention to reduce its 
issued share capital . On 29 April 2021, DSM announced this share cancellation, resulting in a decrease of the number of 
issued ordinary shares from 181,425,000 to 174,786,029.  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  240 The changes in the number of issued and outstanding shares in 2020 and 202 1 are shown in the following table.  
Overview of shares  
Issued shares  Issued shares  Treasury shares  
Ordinary  Cum. Pref. A  Ordinary  
Balance at 1 January 2020  181,425,000  44,040,000  8,976,245  
Reissue of shares in connection with share -based 
payments  (1,460,174)  
Repurchase of shares  2,876,035  
Dividend in the form of ordinary shares  (1,186,445)  
Balance at 31 December 2020  181,425,000  44,040,000  9,205,661  
Number of treasury shares at 31 December 2020  (9,205,661)  
Number of shares outstanding at 31 December 2020  172,219,339  44,040,000  
. 
Balance at 1 January 2021  181,425,000  44,040,000  9,205,661  
Cancellation of issued shares  (6,638,971)  (6,638,971)  
Reissue of shares in connection with share -based 
payments  (803,049)  
Repurchase of shares  1,050,000  
Bearer share certificates that have become void  7,466  
Dividend in the form of ordinary shares  (1,003,808)  
Balance at 31 December 2021  174,786,029  44,040,000  1,817,299  
Number of treasury shares at 31 December 2021  (1,817,299)  
Number of shares outstanding at 31 December 2021  172,968,730  44,040,000  
The average number of ordinary shares outstanding in 202 1 was 172,647,995  (2020: 171,535,921 ). All shares issued are fully 
paid.  
The Cumulative Preference Shares A have been classified as equity, because  there is no mandatory redemption and 
distributions to the shareholders are at the discretion of DSM.  
On 31 December 202 1, no Cumulative Preference Shares B were outstanding (same as 20 20). 
Share premium  
Of the total share premium of €471 million (20 20: €489 million), an amount of €89 million (20 20: €91 million) can be 
regarded as entirely free of tax.  
Treasury shares  
In 202 1, DSM repurchased 1.1 million shares for an amount of €165 million to cover commitments for stock dividend . DSM 
did not repurchase any  shares in 2021 to fulfill its obligations under share -based compensation plans . Furthermore, 
6,638,971 ordinary shares held in treasury since the execution of the share buyback program earmarked for capital 
reduction were  canceled.  
At 31 December 202 1, DSM possessed 1,817,299  (2020: 9,205,661 ) ordinary shares with a nominal value of €3 million, or 0.83% 
(2020: 4.08%) of the share capital. The average purchase price of the ordinary treasury shares as at 31 December 202 1 was 
€97.50  (2020: €105.98 ). At 31 December 20 21, 1,665,073 (2020: 2,460,656 ) of the total number of treasury shares outstanding 
were held for servici ng share -option rights and share plans, 152,226  (2020: 106,034 ) shares for stock dividend, and no more 
shares (2020: 6,638,971 ) were earmarked  for capital reduction.  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  241 Other reserves  in Shareholders ’ equity  
Translation 
reserve  Hedging 
reserve  Reserve for 
share -based 
compensation  Fair 
value 
reserve  Total  
Balance at 1 January 2020  162 (122) 51 5 96 
Changes:  
Fair-value changes of derivatives  - 40 - - 40 
Release to income statement  - 20 - - 20 
Fair-value changes of other financial assets  - - - 106 106 
Exchange differences  (451) - - - (451)
Options and performance shares granted  - - 29 - 29
Options and performance shares exercised/canceled  - - (39) - (39)
Transfer to retained earnings  - - - (30) (30)
Changes in joint ventures and associates  (2) - - - (2)
Income tax  2 (6) - (8) (12)
Total changes  (451) 54 (10) 68 (339)  
Balance at 31 December 2020  (289) (68) 41 73 (243)  
. 
Changes:  
Fair-value changes of derivatives  - (24) - - (24) 
Release to income statement  (13) 7 - - (6) 
Fair-value changes of other financial assets  - - - 46 46 
Exchange differences  478 - - - 478 
Options and performance shares granted  - - 22 - 22
Options and performance shares exercised/canceled  - - (24) - (24)
Transfer to retained earnings  - - - (101) (101)
Changes in joint ventures and associates  1 - - - 1 
Income tax  - 8 - (1) 7 
Total changes  466 (9) (2) (56) 399
Balance at  31 December 2021  177 (77) 39 17 156 
The increase in the Translation reserve in 20 21 is mainly caused by a weakening of the euro against the US dollar , Chinese 
renminbi and Swiss Franc . As a consequence , the total value of the subsidiaries increased, which led to a positive 
exchange difference of €478 million.  
The Translation reserve, Hedging reserve and Fair value reserve  (partly)  are legal reserves in accordance with Dutch law 
and cannot be distributed  to shareholders. Additional information is provided in Note 6 Shareholders' equity  to the Parent 
company financial statements.  
In the reporting year, DSM sold part of its shares  in Amyris, Inc., which is accounte d for as an Other participating interest. 
The related  accumulated fair value increase of €93 million up to the date of sale ha s been transferred within equity from 
the Fair value reserve to Retained earnings.  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  242 17 Non -controlling  interests  
2021 2020 
Andre Pectin  Yimante  Other  Total  
% of non -controlling interest  25% 25% 
Balance at 1 January  35 21 32 88 104 
Changes:  
-Share of profit/charged to income statement 4 1 (1) 4 2 
-Acquisitions - - - - (1) 
-Divestments - - (23) (23) - 
- Other consolidation changes  - - 2 2 (10) 
-Capital payments - - 3 3 3 
-Dividend paid (2) - (1) (3) (6) 
-Exchange differences 5 2 1 8 (4) 
Total changes  7 3 (19) (9) (16) 
Balance at  31 December  42 24 13 79 88 
‘Divestments’  relates to the derecognition of the non -controlling interest in DSM Eternal Resins Co. Ltd. (€13 million), DSM 
Resins Far East Ltd. (€7 million) and Japan Fine Coatings Co. Ltd. (€3 million) following the divestment of the RFM business.  
Not fully -owned subsidiaries on a 100% basis  
2021 2020 
Andre Pectin  Yimante  Other  Total  
Assets  
Intangible assets  61 24 19 104 117 
Property, plant and equipment  45 133 150 328 320 
Other non -current assets  2 25 43 70 56 
Inventories  37 9 16 62 70 
Receivables  38 30 35 103 110 
Cash and cash equivalents  9 11 29 49 49 
Total assets  192 232 292 716 722 
. 
Liabilities  
Provisions (non-current)  14 - - 14 16 
Borrowings (non -current)  - 101 71 172 110 
Other non -current liabilities  - 1 1 2 17 
Borrowings and derivatives (current)  - - 67 67 100 
Other current liabilities  10 33 75 118 136 
Total liabilities  24 135 214 373 379 
Net assets (100% basis)  168 97 78 343 343 
Net sales  76 5 108 189 206 
Net profit for the year  14 3 (11) 6 12 
Cash provided by / (used in) operating 
activities  (36) (11) (12) (59) (29)Notes to the consolidated  financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  243 18 Provisions  
Restructuring 
costs and 
termination 
benefits  Environmental 
costs  Other long -
term 
employee 
benefits  Other 
provisions  Total  
Balance at 1 January 2020  31 59 41 37 168 
Of which current  21 13 4 10 48 
Changes:  
-Additions 86 3 3 12 104 
-Releases (7) (16) - (5) (28) 
-Uses (62) (7) (2) (4) (75) 
-Reclassification to held for sale - - (4) - (4)
-Acquisitions 2 1 3 15 21 
-Other change - - - (2) (2)
Total changes  19 (19) - 16 16 
Balance at 31 December 2020  50 40 41 53 184 
Of which current  42 7 5 7 61 
. 
Changes:  
-Additions 56 - 6 9 71 
-Releases (10) - - (12) (22)
-Uses (43) (3) (6) (17) (69) 
-Other change - - (1) 1 - 
Total changes  3 (3) (1) (19) (20)
Balance at 31 December 2021  53 37 40 34 164 
Of which current  49 4 5 10 68 
In cases where the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are measured at the present value of the 
expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation. The discount rate used increased from 0.7% to 1.3%. The 
balance of provisions measur ed at present value increased by less than €1 million in 202 1 in view of the passage of time 
(same as in 2020). 
The provisions for restructuring costs and termination benefits mainly relate to the costs of redundancy schemes 
connected to the dismissal of employees and costs of termination of contracts. These provisions have an average life of 1 
to 3 years.  
During 2021, a restructuring program was launched for the Materials cluster.  A provision of €16 million was recognized  for 
this program , of which €6 million was used during the year.  
Furthermore, a restructuring program following up on the new strategy of DSM was launched at the end of 2021. A 
provision of €28 million was recognized  for this program , of which €3 million was used during the ye ar.  
The other additions to the provisions for restructuring costs and termination benefits in 202 1 relate mainly to the various 
smaller restructuring projects (same as in 20 20). 
The provisions for environmental costs relate to soil clean -up obligations, a mong other things. These provisions have an 
average life of around 10 years.  
The provisions for other long -term employee benefits relate mainly to length -of-service and end -of-service payments. The 
average life of this provision is estimated to be between 10 and 12 years.   Notes to the consolidated  financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  244 Several items have been combined under Other provisions, for example , demolition costs, onerous contracts and legal 
claims . These provisions have an average life of 1 to 10 years.   
19 Borrowings  
2021 2020 
Total  Of which  
current  Total  Of which  
current  
Debenture loans  2,739  - 3,237 - 
Private loans  116 13 81 2 
Lease liabilities  195 48 215 47 
Credit institutions  43 43 53 53 
Total  3,093  104 3,586  102 
In agreements governing loans with a residual amount at year -end 20 21 of €2,739  million (31 December 20 20: €3,237  
million ), negative pledge clauses have been included that restrict the provision of security.  
The documentation of the €500 million bond issued i n March 2014, the €500 million bond issued in April 2015, the  €750 
million bond issued in September 2016 , and both €500 million bonds issued in June 2020  include a change -of-control 
clause. This clause allows the bond investors to request repayment at par if 50% or more of the DSM shares are controlled 
by a third party and if the company is downgraded below investment grade (< BBB -). DSM’s credit rating has been kept 
stable throughout 2021 and is set-out as follows: Moody’s: “A3”/stable outlook and S&P: “A -”/stable outlook . At 31 
December 20 21, there was € 1,043  million in borrowings outstanding with a remaining term of more than 5 years (at 31 
December 20 20, €1,813 million).   
In June 2021, DSM exercised  its right  to redeem early, in full  and at the make-whole redemption amount , the €500 million 
bond  issued on 24 September 2015  and with scheduled maturity  of 26 September 2022.  The make-whole redemption 
amount was €1,033.91 per €1,000 in principal amount of notes inclusive of accrued and unpaid interest up to, but 
excluding, the make-whole redemption date falling on 18 June 2021.
The schedule of repayment of borrowings is as follows . 
Borrowings by maturity  
2021 2020 
2021 - 102 
2022 104 553 
2023 73 37 
2024 549 546 
2025 and 2026  1,324  1,304  
After 2026  1,043  1,044  
Total  3,093  3,586  A breakdown by currency is given in the following table.  
Borrowings by currency  
2021 2020 
EUR 2,864  3,351  
CNY 93 80 
USD 80 88 
BRL 10 11 
TWD - 12 
Other  46 44 
Total  3,093  3,586  
On balance, total borrowings decreased by € 493 million due to the following changes.  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  245 Movements of borrowings  
2021 2020 
Balance at 1 January  3,586  2,653  
Loans taken up  37 1,123 
Repayments  (513) (268)  
Unwinding (interest)  7 7 
Acquisitions/consolidation changes  11 205 
Disposals  (30) - 
Reclassification to held for sale  - (4) 
Changes in debt to credit institutions  12 (95) 
New lease arrangements (incl. remeasurements)  19 34 
Payment of lease liabilities  (54) (55) 
Exchange differences  18 (14) 
Balance at 31 December  3,093  3,586  
The average effective interest rate on the portfolio of borrowings outstanding in 202 1, including hedge instruments related 
to these borrowings, amounted to 1.86% (20 20: 1.78%). 
A breakdown of debenture loans is given below. 
Debenture loans  
Nominal amount  2021 2020 
EUR loan  2.38%  2014—2024 500 499 499 
EUR loan  1.00%  2015—2025 500 499 498 
EUR loan  1.38%  2015—2022 500 - 500 
EUR loan  0.75%  2016—2026 750 749 748 
EUR loan  0.25%  2020—2028 500 498 497 
EUR loan  0.625%  2020—2032 500 495 495 
Total  3,250  2,739  3,237  
All debenture loans have a fixed interest rate and are listed on the AEX.  
-The 2.375% EUR bond 2014 –2024 of €500 million was pre -hedged by means of forward starting swaps, resulting in
an effective interest rate for this bond of 3.97%, including the settlement of the pre -hedge
-The 1% EUR bond 2015 –2025 of €500 million was pre -hedged by means of forward starting swaps, resulting in an
effective interest rate for this bond at 3.65%, including the settlement of the pre -hedge
-The 1.375% EUR bond 2015 –2022 of €500 million had an effective interest rate of 1.40%  and was early redeemed
during 2021, as is mentioned above
-The 0.75% EUR bond 2016 –2026 of €750 million was pre -hedged by means of a collar resulting in an effective
interest rate for this bond of 1.08%, including the settlement of the pre -hedge
-The 0.25% EUR bond 2020 –2028 of €500 million has an effective interest rate of 0.29%
-The 0.625% EUR bond 2020 –2032 of €500 million has an effective interest rate of 0.70%
A breakdo wn of private loans is given below.  
Private loans  
2021 2020 
CNY loan 73 57 
Other  loans  43 24 
Total  116 81 Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  246 A breakdown of the lease liabilities is given below.  
Lease liabilities by maturity  
2021 2020 
2021 - 47 
2022 47 38 
2023 38 32 
2024 30 27 
2025 22 20 
2026 16 14 
After  2026 60 58 
Total  undiscounted  lease  liabilities  at 31 December  213 236 
Lease  liabilities  included  in the Balance  Sheet  at 31 December  195 215 
Current  48 47 
Non-current  147 168 
In addition to the contractual lease commitments, DSM has identified explicit renewal options available to DSM, which are 
currently not reasonably certain to be exercised and are therefore not included in the measurement of the lease.  
The associated future le ase payments which are uncommitted and optional for DSM, are estimated around € 79 million 
(undiscounted ; 2020: €78 million ). 
The interest expense on the lease liabilities was € 5 million (2020: €6 million) and the total repayments of the lease 
liabilities amounted to € 54 million in 2021 (2020: €55 million ). These cash flows are reported as financing cash flows.  
DSM’s policy regarding financial -risk management is described in Note 23  Financial instrume nts and risks . 
20 Other non -current liabilities  
The increase in the Other non-current liabilities mainly relates to earn-out agreements regarding the acquisition s of the 
Amyris F&F bio -based intermediates business  and Vestkorn Milling . See also  Note 3 Change in the scope of the 
consolidation . 2021 2020 
Investment grants / customer funding  62 76 
Deferred items  24 24 
Drawing rights  49 36 
Acquisition related liabilities  146 22 
Other non -current liabilities  2 5 
Total  283 163 Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  247 21 Current liabilities  
2021 2020 
Trade payables  
Received in advance  10 11 
Trade accounts payable  1,550  1,200  
Notes and cheques due  4 2 
Owing to associates and joint ventures  7 5 
Total Trade payables  1,571 1,218 
Income tax payable  77 45 
Other current liabilities  
Other taxes and social security contributions  60 47 
Interest  20 22 
Pensions  2 2 
Investment creditors  145 98 
Employee -related liabilities  302 266 
Payables associates and joint ventures relating to cash facility  1 2 
Acquisition / divestment related liabilities  10 71 
Total Other current liabilities  540 508 
Total current liabilities  2,188  1,771 
Included in trade accounts payable are amounts due to suppliers which could be part of a supply chain finance 
arrangement between the supplier and a third -party bank. DSM suppliers have the option to enter into such supply chain 
finance arrangements with t hird party banks, which provides them with the option of earlier payment based on terms 
linked to DSM’s investment grade credit rating. If a supplier chooses to participate in such an arrangement, this does not 
impact the classification of the trade payabl e for DSM as these supply chain finance arrangements are concluded between 
the banks and the suppliers and do not alter the payment conditions between the supplier and DSM. Therefore, these 
amounts remain classified as trade payables.  
22 Contingent liabilities and other financial obligations  
The contingent liabilities and other financial obligations in the following table are not recognized in the balance sheet.
2021 2020 
Guarantee obligations on behalf of associates and third parties  206 196 
Outstanding orders for projects under construction  11 30 
Other  108 82 
Total  325 308 
Guarantee obligations are principally related to VAT and duties on the one hand and to financing obligations of associated 
companies or related third parties on the other. Guarantee obligations will only lead to a cash outflow when called upon. 
At year -end, no obligations had been called upon. Most of the outstanding orders for projects under construction will be 
completed in 202 2. Other relates mainly to contingen t liabilities  in con tracts  for catalysts.  
Litigation  
DSM has a process in place to monitor legal claims periodically and systematically.  
DSM is involved in several legal proceedings, most of which are related to the ordinary course of business. DSM does not 
expect these proce edings to result in liabilities that have a material effect on the company's financial position. In cases Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  248 Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 
where it is probable that the outcome of the proceedings will be unfavorable, and the financial outcome can be measured 
reliably, a provision has been recognized in the financial statements and disclosed in Note 18 Provisions. 
In 2015, an award was issued against DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals India Private Ltd. (DSP India) in a protracted 
arbitration case in India going back to 2004 involving a joint venture that DSP India had formed with Hindusta n Antibiotics 
Ltd., which suspended its operations in 2003. DSP India (renamed to Centrient Pharmaceuticals after divestment by DSM in 
2018) is covered by an indemnity from Koninklijke DSM N.V. for this case. In 2015, DSP India made an application with the 
Civil Court in Pune (India) to set aside the arbitral award. The award amounts to INR 127.5 crore (approximately €15 million 
as at year-e nd 2021) excluding interest of 12% per year as of 2004. In 2019, DSM provided the Bombay High Court a bank 
guarantee of INR 150 crore (approximately €18 million as at year-e nd 2021). At the end of 2021, the application proceedings 
were still pending. DSM has always viewed this case as unfounded a nd is of the opinion that the likelihood of the award 
being ultimately set aside is high. Therefore, no liability is recognized in respect of this case. 
In 2019, Brazilian tax authorities disagreed with certain tax treatment as applied by the company in 2014 –2016, which would 
have an effect on such prior year income tax returns of around BRL 65 million (approximately €10 million as at year-end 
2021), including penalties and interest. DSM views this case as unfounded a nd considers that the possibility of winning this 
case is high, as confirmed by external legal counsel. Therefore, no liability relating to this case is recognized. During 2021 
no relevant developments took place that alter this view. 
23 Financial instruments and risks 
Policies on financial risks 
As an international company, DSM is exposed to financial risks in the normal course of business. A major objective of our 
group policy is to minimize the impact of market, liquidity and credit risk on the value of the company and its profitabilit y. 
In order to achieve this, a systematic financial and risk management system has been established. For the purpose of 
securing compliance with the risk management policies, an internal control framework has been implemented, and the 
controls are monitored a nd tested periodically. 
The derivatives contracts used by DSM are entered into exclusively in connection with the corresponding underlying 
transaction (hedged item) relating to normal operating business. The instruments used are customary products, such as 
currency swaps, cross-currency interest rate swaps, collars, forward exchange contracts and interest rate swaps. 
An important element of DSM’s financial policy and capital management is the allocation of cash flow. DSM primarily 
allocates cash flow to investments aimed at strengthening its business positions and securing the dividend payment to its 
shareholders. The remaining cash flow is further used for acquisitions and partnerships that strengthen DSM ’s 
competences and market positions. The net debt to equity ratio (gearing) is 9.7 (20 20: 25.6), see also Note 25 Net debt. 
Liquidity risk 
Liquidity risk is the financial risk that an entity does not have and/or cannot access enough liquid cash and/or assets to 
meet its obligations. This can happen if the entity’s credit rating falls, or when it experiences sudden unexpected cash 
outflows or an unexpected drop in cash inflows, or some other event that causes counterparties to avoid trading with or 
lending to the entity. Additionally, an entity can be indirectly exposed to market liquidity risk, if the financial markets on 
which it depends are subject to loss of liquidity. 
The primary objective of liquidity management is to optimize the corporate cash position, among other things, by securing 
availability of sufficient liquidity for executio n of payments by DSM entities, at the right time and the right place. 
At 31 December 2021, DSM had cash a nd cash equivalents of €1,561 million (20 20: €871 million). 
At the end of 2021, DSM had one committed credit facility amounting to €1.0 billion, maturing on 28 May 2025. The 
agreement for the committed credit facility has neither financial covenants nor material adverse changes clauses. The 
committed credit facility links the interest rate to DSM’s greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reduction. At year-e nd 20 21, no Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  249 loans had been taken up under the committed credit facilit ies. The committed credit facilit ies contracted in 2020 were 
canceled in 2021.   
Furthermore, DSM has a commercial pape r program amounting to € 2.0 billion (20 20: €2.0 billion). The company will use the 
commercial paper program to a total of not more than € 1.0 billion (20 20: €1.0 billion).  At 31 December 20 21, €0 million had 
been issued as commercial paper (20 20: €0 million ).  
DSM has no derivative contracts to manage currency risk or interest rate risk outstanding under which margin calls by the 
counterparty would be permitted.  
Floating -rate and fixed -rate borrowings and monetary liabilities analyzed by maturity are summari zed in the following 
table. Borrowings excluding credit institutions are shown after taking into account related interest rate derivatives in 
designated hedging relationships. DSM manages financial liabilities and related derivative contracts on the basis of the 
remaining contractual maturities of these instruments. The remaining maturities presented in the following table provide 
an overview of the timing of the cash flows related to these instruments. Financial assets are not linked to financial 
liabiliti es in order to meet cash outflows on these liabilities.  
Financial liabilities  
Carrying 
amount  Within 1 
year 1 to 2 years  2 to 3 years  3 to 4 years  4 to 5 years  After 5 
years  
2020 
Borrowings  3,586  102 553 37 546 535 1,813 
Monetary liabilities  1,851 1,787 21 5 5 5 28 
Guarantees  196 - - - - - 196
Derivatives  14 13 1 - - - - 
Interest payments  168 34 34 27 27 15 31 
Cash at redemption¹  13 2 2 2 2 1 4 
Total  5,828  1,938  611 71 580 556 2,072  
. 
2021 
Borrowings  3,093  104 73 549 553 771 1,043  
Monetary liabilities  2,399  2,188  67 37 57 18 32 
Guarantees  206 - - - - - 206
Derivatives  49 40 7 2 - - - 
Interest payments  127 27 27 27 15 10 21 
Cash at redemption¹  11 2 2 2 1 1 3 
Total  5,885  2,361  176 617 626 800 1,305  
1 Difference between nominal redemption and amortized costs.  
The following table reflects the exposure of the derivatives to liquidity risk. It contains the cash flows from derivatives w ith 
positive fair values and from derivatives with negative fair values to have a complete overview of the derivatives related 
cash flows. The amounts are gross and undiscounted.  
Derivatives cash flow  
2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 Total 
2020 
Inflow  1,881 57 103 39 14 2,094  
Outflow  (1,842)  (54) (101) (36) (13) (2,046)  
2021 
Inflow  2,092  107 39 8 13 2,259  
Outflow  (2,109)  (112) (39) (9) (13) (2,282)  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  250 Market risk  
Market risk can be subdivided into interest rate risk, currency risk and price risk.  
Interest rate risk  
Interest rate risk is the risk that adverse movements of interest rates lead to high costs on interest -bearing debt or assets, 
which negatively impact the company’s capability to honor its commitments. DSM’s interest rate risk policy is aimed at 
minimizing the interest rate risks associated with the financing of the company an d thus at the same time optimizing the 
net interest costs. This policy translates into a certain desired profile of fixed -interest and floating -interest positions, 
including cash and cash equivalents, with the floating -interest position not exceeding 60% o f net debt.  
At 31 December 2021, there was a CNY 166 million credit facility held by DSM Inner Mongolia Rainbow, based on floating 
rate SHIBOR (2020: CNY 180 million). There were no outstanding fixed -floating interest rate swaps (end of 2020 none).  
The fol lowing analysis of the sensitivity of borrowings, assets and related derivatives to interest rate movements assumes 
an instantaneous 1% change in interest rates for all maturities from their level on 31 December 2021, with all other 
variables held constant . A 1% reduction in interest rates would result in a €18 million pre -tax loss in the income statement 
and equity on the basis of the composition of financial instruments on 31 December 2021, as floating -rate borrowings are 
more than compensated for by floa ting-rate assets (mainly cash). The opposite applies in the case of a 1% increase in 
interest rates. The sensitivity of financial instruments with a floating interest rate on 31 December 2021 to changes in 
interest rates is set out in the following table.  
For more information regarding fixed or floating interest, see Note 19 Borrowings . 
Sensitivity to change in interest rate  
2021 2020 
Carrying 
amount   Sensitivity  Carrying 
amount   Sensitivity  
+1%  (1%) +1%  (1%) 
Loans to associates and joint ventures  1 - - 4 - - 
Current investments  489 5 (5) 43 - - 
Cash and cash equivalents  1,561 16 (16) 871 9 (9) 
Short -term borrowings  (104) (1) 1 (102) (1) 1 
Long -term borrowings  (2,989)  (2) 2 (3,484)  (2) 2
Currency risk  
Currency risk is the risk that adverse movements of foreign currencies negatively impact the results of operations and the 
financial condition of the company, for example due to losses on assets or liabilities in foreign currencies. It  is DSM’s 
policy to hedge 100% of the currency risks resulting from sales and purchases at the moment of recognition of the 
receivables and payables. This is realized by transferring at spot rates the respective exposures to the group, which are, 
consequen tly (on a netted basis), hedged externally.  
In addition, operating companies may — under strict conditions — opt for hedging currency risks from firm commitments 
and forecast transactions. The currencies giving rise to these risks are primarily USD, CHF and JPY. The risks arising from 
currency expos ures are regularly reviewed and hedged when appropriate. DSM uses currency forward contracts, spot 
contracts, and average -rate currency forwards and options to hedge the exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange 
rates. At year -end, these instruments had  remaining maturities of less than one year. For the hedging of currency risks 
from firm commitments and forecast transaction cash flows, hedge accounting is applied. Hedge accounting is not applied 
for hedges of recognized trade receivables and trade paya bles hedged with short -term derivatives.  
To hedge intercompany loans, receivables and payables denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of 
the subsidiaries, DSM uses currency swaps or forward contracts.  
The following analysis of the sensitivity of net borrowings and derivative financial instruments to currency movements 
against the euro assumes a 10% change in all foreign currency rates against the euro from their level on 31 December 2021, Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  251 with all other variables held constant. A +1 0% change indicates a strengthening of the foreign currencies against the euro. 
A -10% change represents a weakening of the foreign currencies against the euro.  
Sensitivity to change in exchange rate  
2021 2020 
Carrying 
amount  Sensitivity  Carrying 
amount  Sensitivity  
+10%  (10%) +10%  (10%)
Loans to associates and joint ventures  1 - - 4 - - 
Current investments  489 2 (2) 43 1 (1) 
Cash and cash equivalents  1,561 24 (24) 871 25 (25) 
Short -term borrowings (excluding lease liabilities)  (57) (2) 2 (55) (4) 4 
Long -term borrowings (excluding lease liabilities)  (2,841)  (7) 7 (3,316)  (5) 5
Lease liabilities  (195) (14) 14 (215) (15) 15 
Currency forward contracts  (11) 8 (8) 9 17 (17) 
Currency forwards related to net investments in foreign entities¹  - (8) 8 - (13) 13 
Average -rate forwards used for economic hedging²  (10) 22 (22) 35 19 (19) 
Other derivatives  50 3 (3) 51 4 (4) 
1 Fair-value change reported in Translation reserve.  
2 Fair-value change reported in Hedging reserve.  
Sensitivity changes on these positions will generally be recognized in profit or loss or in the translation reserve in equity , 
with the exception of the instruments for which cash flow hedge accounting or net -investment hedge accounting is 
applied.  
In case of a strengthening or weakening of the euro against USD, CHF and CNY (being the key currencies), this would affect 
the translation of financial instruments denominated in these currencies taking into account  the effect of hedge 
accounting and  assuming all other variables being constant.  
Profit or loss  Equity  
Strengthening Weakening  Strengthening  Weakening  
EUR 
USD (10% movement)  (140) 140 (277) 277
CHF (10% movement)  10 (10) (231) 231 
CNY (10% movement)  (17) 17 (95) 95
Price risk  
Financial instruments that are subject to changes in stock exchange prices or indexes are subject to a price risk. At year -
end 2021 , mainly other participating interests  are subject to price risks.  
Credit risk  
Credit risk is the risk that a (commercial or financial) counterparty may not be able to honor a financial commitment 
according to the contractual agreement with DSM. The company manages the credit risk to which it is exposed by applying 
credit limits per institution and by dealing exclusively with institutions that have a high credit rating.  
At the balance sheet date, there were no significant concentrations of credit risks.  
For all financial assets measured at amor tized cost, the estimation of the loss allowance for doubtful accounts receivable 
is based on an expected credit loss (ECL) model.   
For trade receivables, DSM uses an allowance matrix to measure the lifetime ECL for trade receivables. The loss rates 
depend  among other things on the specified aging categories and are based on historical write -off percentages, taking 
market developments into account.  
For other financial assets, DSM applies an ECL model that reflects the size and significance of DSM ’s exposur e to credit 
loss. The ECL is based on the allocation of a credit risk grade which is based on data that is determined to be predictive of  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  252 the risk of loss (including but not limited to external ratings, audited financial statements, management accounts and  cash 
flow projections and available press information about customers) and applying experienced credit judgement. Credit risk 
grades are defined using qualitative and quantitative factors that are indicative of the risk of default and are aligned to 
exter nal credit rating definitions from Moody ’s. 
Risk of default is herewith considered as the risk of bankruptcy, or any legal impediment to the timely payment of either 
interest and/or principal, as well as missed or delayed disbursement of either interest an d/or principal.  
The loss allowance on non -current financial assets that has been taken into consideration at the end of 20 21 was 
nil (2020: €5 million) . 
With regard to  treasury activities (for example cash, cash equivalents and derivatives held with banks or financial 
institutions) it is ensured that financial transactions are only concluded with counterparties that have at least a Moody ’s 
credit rating of A3 for long -term instruments. At Business Group level, outstanding receivables are continuously monitored 
by management. Appropriate allowances are made for any credit risks that have been identified in line with the expected 
credit loss policy.  
The development of the outstanding receivables per aging category is as follows.  
2021 2020 
Neither past due nor impaired  1,070  924 
1–29 days overdue  179 165 
30–89 days overdue  118 70 
90 days or more overdue  24 24 
Total  1,391 1,183 
The table below provides information about the credit risk exposure per aging category and the ECL for trade accounts 
receivable of €23 million at 31 December 20 21 (31 December 2020: €28 million) , see Note 13 Curr ent receivables . 
2021 2020 
Weighted 
average 
loss rate  Gross 
carrying 
amount  Expected 
credit loss  Weighted 
average 
loss rate  Gross 
carrying 
amount  Expected 
credit loss  
Neither past due nor impaired  0.3% 1,070  (3) 0.4% 924 (4) 
1–29 days overdue  1.0% 179 (2) 1.0% 165 (2) 
30–89 days overdue  4.0% 118 (5) 6.0% 70 (4) 
90 days or more overdue  55.0%  24 (13) 75.0%  24 (18) 
Total  1,391 (23) 1,183 (28) 
The changes in the expected credit loss for trade accounts receivable are as follows.  
2021 2020 
Balance at 1 January  (28) (17) 
Net remeasurement of expected credit loss  2 (6) 
Deductions  2 1 
Acquisitions  - (9) 
Reclassification to held for sale  - 2 
Disposals  1 - 
Exchange differences  - 1 
Balance at  31 December  (23) (28)Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  253 The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amounts of financial assets that are recognized in the 
balance sheet, including derivative financial instruments. DSM has International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) 
agreements i n place with its financial counterparties that allow for the netting of exposures in case of a default of either 
party , but do not meet the criteria for offsetting in the balance sheet. The following table present s the carrying amounts of 
the derivative fi nancial instruments subject to these agreements . No significant agreements or financial instruments were 
available at the reporting date that would reduce the maximum exposure to credit risk.  
Exposure to credit risk related to derivatives  
2021 2020 
Receivables from derivatives presented in the balance sheet  78 109 
Related amounts not offset in the balance sheet  (14) (10) 
Net amount  64 99 
. 
Liabilities from derivatives presented in the balance sheet  (49) (14) 
Related amounts not offset in the balance sheet  14 10 
Net amount  (35) (4) 
Information about financial assets is presented in Note 10 Associates and joint arrangements , Note 11 Other financial 
assets , Note 13 Current receivables , Note 14 Current investments , Note 15 Cas h and cash equivalents  and Note 23 Financial 
instruments and risks . 
DSM's policy is to grant corporate guarantees for credit support of subsidiaries and associates, to get access to credit 
facilities which are n ecessary for their operating working capital needs and which cannot be funded by the corporate cash 
pools and/or for bank guarantees needed for local governmental requirements. Information on guarantees is presented in 
Note 22 Contingent liabilities and other financial obligations . 
Hedge accounting  
DSM uses derivative financial instruments to manage financial risks relating to business operations and does not enter 
into speculative derivative positions. The purp ose of cash flow hedges is to minimize the risk of volatility of future cash 
flows. These may result from a recognized asset or liability or a forecast transaction that is considered highly probable 
(firm commitment). DSM determines the existence of an eco nomic relationship between the hedging instrument and 
hedging item based on currency, amount and timing of their respective cash -flows . The hedge ratio is dependent on the 
risk analysis related to the specific cash flow, and can vary from 50 % to 100%. Chan ges in fair value as a result of changes 
in interest (for cash flows hedges) or as a result of changes in exchange rate (for firm commitment hedges) are recognized 
in Other comprehensive income (Hedging reserve), and ineffectiveness (mainly as a result of changes in timing of the 
hedged transactions) will be recognized in the income statement. As soon as the forecast transaction is realized (the 
underlying hedged item materializes), the amount recognized in the  Other comprehensive income will be reclassifie d to 
the income statement. In case the hedged future transaction is a non -financial asset or liability, the gain or loss 
recognized in Other comprehensive income will be included in the cost of acquisition of the asset or liability.  
The purpose of a hedge of a net investment is to reduce the foreign currency translation risk of an investment in a 
company whose functional currency is not the euro. Changes in fair value are recognized in Other comprehensive income  
(Translation reserve), and ineffectiveness wi ll be recognized in the income statement. The amount recognized in Other 
comprehensive income will be reclassified to the income statement, upon divestment of the respective foreign subsidiary.  
The purpose of a fair value hedge is to hedge the fair value o f assets or liabilities reflected on the balance sheet. Changes 
of fair value in hedging instruments, as well as hedged items, will be recognized in the income statement.  
Cash flow hedges  
In 20 21, DSM hedged USD 572 million (20 20: USD 575 million) of its 202 2 projected net cash flow in USD against the EUR by 
means of average -rate currency forward contracts at an average exchange rate of USD 1.20 per EUR for the four quarters of 
2022. Each quarter, the relevant hedges for that quarter will be settled and recognized in the income statement. In 20 21, 
DSM also hedged JPY 6,771 million (20 20: JPY 7,213 million) of its 202 2 projected net cash flow in JPY against the EUR by Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  254 means of average -rate currency forward contracts at an average exchange ra te of JPY 130.25  per EUR for  the four quarters 
of 202 2. DSM also hedged the projected CHF obligations against the EUR, namely CHF 375 million (2020: CHF 361 million) at 
an average exchange rate of CHF 1.08 per EUR. These hedges have fixed the exchange rate  for part of the USD and JPY 
receipts and CHF payments in 202 2. Cash flow hedge accounting is applied for these hedges. As a result of similar hedges 
concluded in 20 20 for the year 20 21, €16 million positive (20 20: €3 million positive) was recognized in th e 2021 operating 
profit of the segments involved in accordance with the realization of the expected cash flows. There was no ineffectiveness 
in relation to these hedges.  
Net investment hedges  
The partial hedging of the currency risk associated with the translation of DSM ’s CHF -denominated investments was 
continued for an amount of CHF 80 million  (2020: CHF 1 35 million). There was no material ineffectiveness in relation to 
these hedges.  
Cash flow hedges  Net investment hedges  
Foreign currency risk  Foreign exchange - denominated  
debt (CHF currency)  
Inventory 
purchases  Other¹  Assets  Liabilities  
2020 
Nominal amount hedged item  28 223 - 125 
Carrying amount assets  - 35 - - 
Carrying amount liabilities  - - - - 
Line item balance sheet  Derivatives  Derivatives  Derivatives  Derivatives  
Change in the value of the hedging 
instrument  1 37 - 1 
Costs of hedging recognized in OCI  1 40 - - 
Reclassified from hedging reserve to 
income statement  (9) (3) - - 
Line item income statement  Cost of sales  Sales  Finex²  Finex²  
. 
2021 
Nominal amount hedged item  23 184 - 77 
Carrying amount assets  5 - - - 
Carrying amount liabilities  - (10) - - 
Line item balance sheet  Derivatives  Derivatives  Derivatives  Derivatives  
Change in the value of the hedging 
instrument  (5) 45 - - 
Costs of hedging recognized in OCI  (5) 29 - 1 
Reclassified from hedging reserve to 
income statement  9 (16) - - 
Line item income statement  Cost of sales  Sales  Finex²  Finex²  
1 Forward contracts, sales, receivables and borrowings. 
2 Financial income and expense. 
For movements in Hedging or Translation reserve, see also Note 16 Equity . 
Fair value of financial instruments 
The following methods and assumptions were used to determine the fair value of financial instruments: cash, current 
investments, current receivables, current borrowings (excluding current portion of long-term instruments) and other 
current liabilities are stated at carrying amount, which approximates fair value in view of the short maturity of these 
instruments. The fair value of derivatives and long-term instruments are based on calculations, quoted market prices or 
quotes obtained from intermediaries. 
The portfolio of derivatives consists of average-rate forward contracts that are valued against average foreign exchange 
forward rates obtained from Bloomberg and other derivatives that are valued using a discounted cash flow model, 
applicable market yield curves and foreign exchange spot rates. Inputs for the fair value calculations represent observable 
market data that are obtained from external sources that are deemed to be independent and reliable. Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  255 DSM uses the following hierarchy for determining the fair value of financial instruments:  
-Level 1: quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
-Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs that have a significant effect on the fair value are observable, either
directly or indirectly
-Level 3: techniques that use inputs that have a significant effect on the fair value that are not based on
observable market data
-The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities,
including their levels in the fair value hierarchy
Fair value of financial instruments  
Carrying amount  Fair Value  
Amort.  
Cost Fair value 
hedging 
instr.  FVTPL  FVOCI  Total  Level 1  Level 2  Level 3  Total  
Assets 2020  
Non-current derivatives  - 10 51  - 61 - 61 - 61
Other participating interests  -  -  -  219  219  121  36  62  219  
Non-current loans to associates and JVs  4  -  -  -  4  - 4 - 4
Other non -current receivables  85 -  -  -  85 -  -  85 85  
Trade receivables  1,391  -  -  -  1,391  -  -  1,391  1,391  
Other current receivables  60  -  -  -  60  -  -  60  60  
Current derivatives  - 48 -  -  48  - 48 - 48
Current investments  43  -  -  -  43  -  -  43  43  
Cash and cash equivalents  871 -  -  -  871 -  -  871 871 
Liabilities 2020  
Non-current borrowings  (3,484)  -  -  -  (3,484)  (3,474)  - (168)  (3,642)  
Non-current derivatives  - (1) -  -  (1) - (1) - (1)
Other non -current liabilities  (163) - -  - (163) (141) - (22) (163) 
Current borrowings  (102) - -  - (102) (55) - (47) (102)
Current derivatives  - (13) -  -  (13) - (13) - (13) 
Trade payables  (1,218)  -  -  -  (1,218)  -  -  (1,218)  (1,218)  
Other current liabilities  (508)  - -  - (508) -  -  (508)  (508)  
. 
Assets 2021  
Non-current derivatives  - 1 47  - 48 - 48 - 48
Other participating interests  -  -  -  191  191  86 44  61  191  
Non-current loans to associates and JVs  1  -  -  -  1  - 1 - 1
Other non -current receivables  31  -  -  -  31  -  -  31  31  
Trade receivables  1,603   -  -  -  1,603   -  -  1,603   1,603   
Other current receivables  32  -  -  -  32  -  -  32  32  
Current derivatives  - 30 -  -  30  - 30 - 30 
Current investments  489  -  -  -  489  -  -  489  489  
Cash and cash equivalents  1,541  - 20 - 1,561 20 - 1,541 1,561  
Liabilities 2021  
Non-current borrowings  (2,989)  -  -  -  (2,989)  (2,920)  - (147) (3,067)  
Non-current derivatives  - (9) -  -  (9) - (9) - (9)
Other non -current liabilities  (137) - (146)  - (283)  (137) - (146)  (283)  
Current borrowings  (104)  - -  - (104) (56) - (48) (104)
Current derivatives  - (40) -  -  (40) - (40) - (40)
Trade payables  (1,571)  -  -  -  (1,571)  -  -  (1,571)  (1,571)  
Other current liabilities  (540) - -  - (540) -  -  (540)  (540)  
During the year there were no material transfers between individual levels of the fair value hierarchy.  
Notional value of derivative financial instruments  
2021 2020 
Non-
current  Current  Total  Non-
current  Current  Total  
Cross -currency interest rate swaps  (170) (90) (260)  (201) (152) (353)  
Forward exchange contracts, currency 
options, currency swaps  (3) (2,019) (2,022)  (2) (1,691) (1,693)  
Other derivatives  39 16 55 46 (28) 18
Total  (134) (2,093) (2,227)  (157) (1,871) (2,028)  Notes to the consolidated financial s tatements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  256 24 Post -employment benefits  
The group operates a number of defined benefit plans and defined contribution plans throughout the world, the assets of 
which are generally held in separately administered funds. The pension plans are generally funded by paym ents from 
employees and from the relevant group companies. The group also provides certain additional healthcare benefits to 
retired employees in the US.  
Post-employment benefits are employee benefits (other than termination benefits and short -term employe e benefits) that 
are payable after the completion of employment. The defined benefit obligation is valued using the projected unit credit 
method as prescribed under IAS  19 ‘Employee Benefits’ . Post-employment benefit accounting is intended to reflect the 
recognition of post -employment benefits over the employee ’s approximate service period, based on the terms of the plans 
and the investment and funding. The accounting requires management to mak e assumptions regarding variables such as 
discount rate, future salary increases, life expectancy, and future healthcare costs. Management consults with external 
actuaries regarding these assumptions at least annually for significant plans.  
Changes in thes e key assumptions can have a significant impact on the projected defined benefit obligations, funding 
requirements and periodic costs incurred.  
The charges for pension costs recognized in the income statement ( Note 5 Net sal es and costs (continuing operations) ) 
relate to the following . 
Pension costs  
2021 2020 
Defined benefit plans:  
-Current service costs pension plans 35 36 
-Other post -employment benefits 3 3 
Defined contribution plans  78 79 
Total pension costs included in employee benefit costs  116 118 
-Pension costs included in Other operating (income) /
expense (9) - 
Total in operating profit, continuing operations  107 118 
Pension costs included in Financial  income and expense  2 4 
Total continuing operations  109 122 
Discontinued operations  3 14 
Total  112 136 
Of which:  
-Defined contribution plans 81 92 
-Defined benefit plans 31 44 
For 2022, costs for the defined benefit plans relating to pensions are expected to be €40 million (2021: €42 million).  
Changes in Employee benefit net liabilities recognized in the balance sheet are shown in the following overview.  Notes to the consolidated financial s tatements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  257 Employee benefit net liabilities  
2021 2020 
Balance at  1 January  454 454 
Changes:  
-Balance of actuarial (gains)/losses (153) 23 
-Employee benefit costs 30 45 
-Contributions by employer (66) (54) 
-Acquisition and disposals - 4 
-Exchange differences (1) (2) 
-Other 5 - 
- Reclassification from/to held for sale  - (16) 
Total changes  (185) - 
Balance at 31 December  269 454 
The Employee benefit net liabilities of € 269 million (20 20: €454 million) consist of € 251 million related to pensions (20 20: 
€434 million), € 5 million related to healthcare and other costs (20 20: €5 million) and  €13 million related to other post -
employment benefits (20 20: €15 million).  See also the table below.  
Net assets/liabilities  
2021 2020 
Major plans: 
Present value of funded obligations  (1,810)  (1,756)  
Fair value of plan assets  1,887  1,676  
Net 77 (80) 
Present value of unfunded obligations  (325)  (354)  
Net (liabilities) / net assets major plans  (248)  (434)  
Net (liabilities) / net assets other plans  (21) (20) 
Total (net liabilities) / net assets  (269)  (454)  
Of which:  - 
Liabilities (Employee benefit liabilities)  (344)  (456)  
Assets (Prepaid pension costs)  75 2 
Pensions  
The DSM group companies have various pension plans, which are geared to the local regulations and practices in the 
countries in which they operate. As these plans are designed to comply with the statutory framework, tax legislation, local 
customs and economic situation of the countries concerned, it follows that the nature of the plans varies from country to 
country. The plans are based on local legal and contractual obligations.  
DSM's current policy is to offer defined contribution retirement benefit plans to new employ ees wherever possible. 
However, DSM still has a (small) number of defined benefit pension and healthcare schemes from the past or in countries 
where legislation does not allow us to offer a defined contribution scheme. Generally, these schemes have been fu nded 
through external trusts or foundations, where DSM faces the potential risk of funding shortfalls. The most significant 
defined benefit schemes are:  
-Pension Plan at DSM Nutritional Products AG in Switzerland (DNP AG)
-DSM UK Pension Scheme in the UK
-Consolidated Pension Plan of DSM North America, Inc. in the US
-Pension Plan at DSM Nutritional Products GmbH in Germany (DNP GmbH)Notes to the consolidated financial s tatements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  258 For each plan, the following characteristics are relevant:  
DNP AG Pension Plan in Switzerland  
The DNP AG Pension Plan is a typical Swiss Cash Balance plan. For accounting purposes, this plan is qualified as a defined 
benefit plan. It is a contribution -based plan. There is no promise of indexation for on -going pensions. The Swiss state 
minimal requirements for occupational bene fit plans have however to be respected; the Minimum Guaranteed Interest 
Return that needs to be applied on the cash balance accounts according to the Swiss BVG legislation was 1 .0% for 2021 
(2020: 1 .0%). The actual return that was granted to the cash balan ce accounts in 2021 was 4 .5% (4 .0% in 2020).  There  is also 
a minimal conversion rate applicable. The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 14.9 years (20 20: 
16.4 years) which could be seen as an indication of the maturity profile o f the scheme.  
The pension plan is managed and controlled by a DSM company pension fund. The Board of Trustees consists of 
representatives of the employer and the employees who have an independent role. The plan assets are collectively 
invested (no individu al investment choice). The current (estimated) funding level, based on local standards, is 124% (20 20: 
117%), which is above the legally required minimum funding level and also above  the long -term buffer target.  
DSM UK Pension Scheme  
The DSM UK Pension Sch eme was closed as of 30 September 2016 for all pension accruals. An unconditional indexation 
policy is applicable for the vested pension rights. The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 18.9 
years (20 20: 19.8 years), which could be seen as an indication of the maturity profile of the scheme.  
The pension plan is managed and controlled by a DSM company pension fund. The Board of Trustees consists of 
representatives of the employer and the employees who have an i ndependent role. There are two company guarantees in 
place: (1) a guarantee from DNP AG (capped at GBP 14 million) related to the 2012 valuation, and (2) a guarantee from Royal 
DSM (capped at GBP 11 million) related to arrangements with respect to former U K divestments. There is a long -term de -
risking strategy for the DSM UK Pension Scheme in place with the objective to align the company ’s intentions and the 
Trustees responsibility with respect to this plan. The current funding level, based on local standar ds, is estimated at 101% 
(2020: 99%).  
Consolidated Plan in the US  
The Consolidated Plan in the US has been closed to new entrants since 2014. As of 31 December 2016, the plan was closed 
for pension accrual of the non -unionized employees  and as a result of the DRF divestment in 2021, it was fully frozen for 
all unionized employees as well.  
There is no indexation applicable for the vested pension rights. The weighted average duration of the defined obligations 
is 11.8 years (2020: 12.5 years), which could be seen as an indication of the maturity profile of the scheme.  
The pension plan is managed and controlled by a DSM company pension fund. The Board of Trustees consists of 
representatives of the employer and the employees, who have an independent role.  
The in ternal funding policy of this plan is based on IFRS valuation. This implies a stricter funding policy than the minimum 
requirements on local funding. The current IFRS funding level is 107% (2020: 101%) and the funding on local standards 
(Pension Protection  Act) will be substantially higher. The minimum required funding level on local standards is 80% on the 
basis of this Act, so this plan is well funded.  
DNP GmbH Pension Plan in Germany  
The DNP GmbH Pension Plan in Germany has been closed to new entrants as  of 31 December 2008. The accrual is still 
applicable for employees who have been participating in the plan since 2008. The pension plan is a final -pay pension plan 
(averaged over the last 12 months prior to retirement) and service -related benefit. The lia bility is on the balance sheet of 
DSM Nutritional Products GmbH. No assets are allocated to this liability. All reimbursements will be paid out by the local 
company. The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 14.5 years (2020: 14.9 years), which could be 
seen as an indication of the maturity profile of the scheme.  Notes to the consolidated financial s tatements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  259 The most important unfunded plans are in Germany, for which the associated liability amounts to €316 million (2020: €345 
million).  
The changes in the present value of the d efined benefit obligations and in the fair value of plan assets of the major plans 
are listed below . 
Present value of defined benefit obligations  
2021 2020 
Balance at 1 January  2,110 2,079  
Changes:  - 
- Service costs  35 36 
-Interest costs 13 18 
-Contributions 16 15 
-Actuarial (gains)/losses (52) 114 
-Past service costs (11) - 
- Exchange differences  94 (30) 
-Disbursements (72) (77) 
-Settlements - (31) 
-Reclassification to held for sale - (16) 
-Other 2 2 
Total changes  25 31 
Balance at 31 December  2,135  2,110 
Fair value of plan assets  
2021 2020 
Balance at 1 January  1,676  1,644  
Changes:  - 
- Interest income on plan assets  11 15 
-Actuarial gains/(losses) 101 89 
Actual return on plan assets  112 104 
-Contributions by employer 47 41 
-Contributions by employees 16 15 
-Disbursement (60) (63) 
-Acquisition / Divestment (1) - 
- Settlements  - (31) 
-Exchange differences 97 (30) 
-Transfer to contribution plan - (4) 
Total changes  211 32 
Balance at 31 December  1,887  1,676  
The fair value of the plan assets consists of 96% of quoted assets (2020: 96%).  
The actuarial gains/losses as included in the previous tables can be specified as follows.  Notes to the consolidated financial s tatements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  260 Remeasurement effects as included in Other comprehensive income  
2021 2020 
Defined benefit obligation major pension plans  
Actuarial (gain)/loss due to experience  68 9 
Actuarial (gain)/loss due to demographic assumption 
changes  (62) 3 
Actuarial (gain)/loss due to financial assumption changes  (58) 102 
Total  (52) 114 
Plan assets major pension plans  
Change in irrecoverable surplus other than interest  - (2) 
Return on plan assets (greater) / less than discount rate  (101) (89) 
Total  (101) (91) 
Actuarial (gain)/loss major plans  (153) 23 
Actuarial (gain)/loss other plans  - - 
Total actuarial (gain)/loss  (153) 23 
The major categories of pension -plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows.  
Pension -plan assets by category  
2021 2020 
Bonds¹  46% 45% 
Equities¹  26% 29% 
Property funds  20% 17% 
Other  8% 9% 
1 With quoted market price in active market  
The pension -plan assets include neither ordinary DSM shares nor property occupied by DSM.  
In 202 2, DSM is expected to contribute € 34 million (actual 202 1: €47 million) to its major defined benefit plans.  
The main actuarial assumptions for the year (weighted averages) are:  
Actuarial assumptions for major plans outside  the Netherlands  
2021 2020 
Discount rate  0.85%  0.53%  
Price inflation  1.49%  1.42%  
Salary increase  2.06%  2.07%  
Pension increase  0.84-
3.15%  0.75-
2.50%  
Year-end amounts for the current and previous periods are as follows.  
Major defined benefit plans per year  
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 
Defined benefit obligations  (2,135)  (2,110)  (2,079)  (1,808)  (1,675)  
Plan assets  1,887  1,676  1,644  1,370  1,301 
Funded status of asset/(liability)  (248)  (434) (435) (438) (374)
Experience adjustments on plan assets, gain/(loss)  101 89 192 (94) 115
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities, gain/(loss)  (68) (9) (36) (35) (24)
Gain/(loss) on liabilities due to changes in assumptions  120 (105) (180) 52 (21)Notes to the consolidated financial s tatements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  261 Sensitivities of significant actuarial assumptions  
The discount rate, the future increase in wages and salaries and the pension increase rate were identified as significant 
actuarial assumptions. The following impacts on the defined benefit obligation are to be expected.  
-A 0.25% increase/decrease in the di scount rate would lead to a decrease/increase of 3.5% (2020: 3.9%) in the
defined benefit obligation
-A 0.25% increase/decrease in the expected increase in salaries/wages would lead to an increase/decrease of
0.3% (2020: 0.3%) in the defined benefit obligat ion
-A 0.25% increase/decrease in the expected rate of pension increase would lead to an increase/decrease of less
than 1.0% (2020: 1.0%) in the defined benefit obligation
The sensitivity analysis is based on realistically possible changes as at the end of the reporting year. Each change in a 
significant actuarial assumption was analyzed separately as part of the test. Interdependencies were not taken into 
account.  
Healthcare and other costs  
In some co untries, particularly the US, group companies provide retired employees and their surviving dependents with 
post-employment benefits other than pensions, mainly allowances for healthcare expenses and life -insurance premiums. 
Some of these are unfunded; in these cases, approved expense claims are reimbursed out of the financial resources of the 
group companies concerned. These plans are not sufficiently material to warrant the individual disclosures required by  
IAS 19.  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  262 25 Net debt  
The development of the components of net debt is as follows.  
Cash and 
cash 
equivalents  Current 
investments  Non-current 
borrowings  Current 
borrowings  Credit 
institutions  Derivatives  Total  
Balance at 1 January 2020  800  688  (2,464)  (57) (132) 21 (1,144)  
Change from operating activities  1,494   - (8) -  -  90  1,576   
Change from investing activities  (1,482)  (646)  (125) (63) (17) - (2,333)  
Reclassification from non -current to current  -  -  142  (142) - -  -  
Transfers  705 - (1,011)  211  95  -  -  
Dividend  (289)  - -  -  -  -  (289)  
Interest  (54) - -  -  -  -  (54) 
Proceeds from reissued shares  63  -  -  -  -  - 63
New/unwinding leases  -  -  (34) -  -  -  (34) 
Repurchase of shares  (309)  - -  -  -  -  (309)  
Derivatives  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  
Other  (33) - -  -  -  -  (33) 
Change from financing activities  83  - (903)  69  95  - (656)  
Exchange differences  (24) 1 14  - 1 (16) (24) 
Reclassification to held for sale  -  -  2  2  -  -  4  
Total changes  71 (645)  (1,020) 8  79 74 (1,433)  
Balance at 31 December 2020  871 43  (3,484)  (49) (53) 95  (2,577)  
. 
Change from operating activities  1,427  - (7) -  -  (66) 1,354   
Change from investing activities  208 445  (3) (2) 24 - 672 
Reclassification from non -current to current  -  -  516  (516) - -  -  
Transfers  (522) - 24 506 (12) 4 -  
Dividend  (266)  - -  -  -  -  (266)  
Interest  (65) - -  -  -  -  (65) 
Proceeds from reissued shares  34  -  -  -  -  - 34
New/unwinding leases  -  -  (19) -  -  -  (19) 
Repurchase of shares  (165) - -  -  -  -  (165) 
Derivatives  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  
Other  -  -  -  -  - (4) (4) 
Change from financing activities  (984)  - 521  (10) (12) - (485)  
Exchange differences  39  1  (16) - (2) - 22  
Total changes  690  446  495  (12) 10 (66) 1,563
Balance at 31 December 2021  1,561  489  (2,989)  (61) (43) 29 (1,014)  
In 202 1, the gearing (net debt / equity plus net debt) was 9.7% (in 20 20: 25.6%) 
26 Notes to the cash flow statement  
The cash flow statement provides an explanation of the changes in cash and cash equivalents. It is prepared on the basis 
of a comparison of the balance sheets at 1 January and 31 December. Changes that do not involve cash flows, such as 
changes in exchange  rates, amortization, depreciation, impairment losses and transfers to other balance sheet items, are 
eliminated.  
Changes in working capital due to the acquisition or disposal of consolidated companies are included under Investing 
activities.  
The Consolida ted cash flow statement includes an analysis of all cash flows in total , therefore including both continuing 
and discontinued operations . For the a mounts related to discontinued operations split by activities  and a reconciliation of 
results from continuing  operations to total , see Note 3 Change in the scope of the consolidation . 
Most of the changes in the cash flow statement can be traced back to the detailed statements of changes for the balance 
sheet items concerned. For th ose balance sheet items for which no detailed statement of changes is included, the table Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 202 1 263 below shows the link between the change according to the balance sheet and the change according to the cash flow 
statement . 
Change in operating working capital  
2021 2020 
Operating working capital  
Balance at 1 January  2,052  2,266  
Balance at 31 December  2,329  2,052  
Balance sheet change  277 (214) 
Adjustments:  
-Exchange differences (108)  146 
-Changes in consolidation (including acquisitions and disposals) 99 (96) 
-Transfers/non -cash value adjustments (85) 156 
Total change in operating working capital according to the cash flow statement  183 (8) 
In 20 21, the operating working capital continuing operations was € 2,329  million (20 20: €2,052 million ), which amounts to  
24.1% of annualized fourth -quarter net sales (20 20: 24.6% continuing operations ). 
The d isposal of subsidiaries, businesses and associates  of €1,791 million consists of the ca sh impact of the divestment of 
Resins & Functional Materials (RFM) for €1,444 million, the sale of DSM’s share in AOC for €33 7 million, various earn -out 
payment receipts of €46 million and other, including costs of € 3 million. Next to that, the divestment of RFM resulted in a 
tax expense of €70 million, of which €33 million was paid in 2021.  
27 Share -based compensation  
The Royal DSM Restricted - and Performance Share Unit Plan provides rules for the grant of Restricted Share Units (RSU) 
and Performance Share Units (PSU)  to eligible employees . The effective date of any  grant of share units is the last trading 
day at the Amster dam Stock Exchange in March.  
The number of share units to be granted is based on the face value of the DSM share. The grant value (depending on job 
level) to eligible employees will be divided by the average share price in January . As a result, the number of share units to 
be granted annually will fluctuate with the share price development. The grant concerns the maximum number of 
Restricted Share Units (RSUs) and Performance Share Units (PSUs) that may vest.  
RSUs and PSUs are subject to a vesting period of  3 years starting at the grant date. Vesting of RSUs is subject to continued 
employment until the vesting date ( ‘time vesting ’). In addition, vesting of PSUs is also subject to the achievement of 
prede fined performance targets at the end of the vesting period. The PSUs granted in 202 1 are subject to the realization of 
four equally weighted goals:  
-Relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance versus a peer group
-Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) growth
-Energy Efficiency Improvement (EEI)
-Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GHGE) reduction
Non-vested share units will be forfeited. If employment is terminated prior to the vesting date, specific rules regarding 
vesting and forfeitures apply.  
Prior to 2017, stock options were granted to eligible executive s. Stock options have a term of 8 years and are subject to a 
vesting period of 3 years. All outstanding stock options are vested.  
Share units and stock options are settled by delivery of DSM shares.  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  264 Overview of stock options 
Year of grant Outstanding 
at 31 Dec. 2020 In 2021 Outstanding 
at 31 Dec. 2021 Fair value 
on grant 
date (€)  Exercise 
price (€) Expiry date 
Exercised Average 
price (€)  Forfeited/ 
expired 
2013 85,250  (85,250) 149.54  -  -  9.23  48.91 7 May 2021 
2014 137,625  (85,585) 177.30  (2,500) 49,540  10.66  52.00 9 May 2022 
2015 312,400  (65,050) 170.47  (2,500) 244,850  9.89  50.98 5 May 2023 
2016 531,645  (107,945) 173.20  (2,500) 421,200  9.36  52.57 3 May 2024 
2021 Total 1,066,920  (343,830) 167.84  (7,500) 715,590  
Of which vested 1,066,920  715,590  
at 31 Dec. 2019 at 31 Dec. 2020 
2020 Total 1,642,380  (575,460) 120.94  - 1,066,920 
Of which vested 1,642,380  1,066,920  
Overview of share units1 
Year of issue Outstanding at 
31 Dec. 2020 Adjustment 
PSUs to 
at-target grant In 2021 Outstanding at 
31 Dec. 2021 Share price 
at date of 
grant (€)  Expiry date 
Granted Vested Forfeited/ 
expired2 
2018 203,139  (30,999) - (168,727) (3,413) - 80.04 31 Mar 2021 
2019 267,934  (79,211) - (20,859) (10,286) 157,578  97.74  31 Mar 2022 
2020 219,278 (65,565) - (16,293) (9,783) 127,637  103.50  31 Mar 2023 
2021 -  -  114,894  (1,758) (3,941) 109,195  144.30  31 Mar 2024 
2021 Total 690,351  (175,775) 114,894  (207,637) (27,423) 394,410  
at 31 Dec. 2019 at 31 Dec. 2020 
2020 Total 885,643  - 232,714 (336,097) (91,909) 690,351  
1 This table also forms part of the Remuneration report 2021 as included in the Supervisory Board Report. 
2 Restricted and Performance Share Units may partly vest upon termination of employment in connection with, for example, divestments, retirement or early
retirement.  
W
hereas the grant of PSUs to members of the Managing Board and the Executive Committee is based on the maximum 
number to vest, the grant to other eligible employees is – as of 2021 – based on the ‘at-target ’ grant level (in previou s 
yea
rs this was the ‘maximum number ’ that could vest). An ‘at-target ’ grant level includes RSUs as well as PSUs. In the 
future this may, upon vesting and depending on the achievement of underlying goals, result in a performance correction, 
i.e., the forfeiture of outstanding PSUs (if performance goals are not or only partly achieved) or in an additional number of 
PSUs to vest (if performance goals are overachieved). 
The change in plan  (the switch to an ‘at-target ’ grant) was applied retroactively for the grants made in previous years. As a 
result of this, the table above includes a one-off correction of outstanding PSUs for grants in previous years. For 2018 the 
number in the respective column represents the net balance of the correction of the number of outstanding share units 
resulting from the shift to an ‘at-target ’ grant (- 59,233 PSUs) and the impact of a performance correction ( 28,234) as the 
achievement of the performance goals exceeded target. For 2019 and 2020 the balance only contains the correction  
following the shift to an ‘at-target ’ grant. The shift towards a grant on ‘at-target ’ level did not impact the valuation of the 
outstanding share units nor the share-based compensation in the income statement. 
Certain employees in the Netherlands are entitled to employee stock options, to be granted on the first day on which the 
DSM stock is quoted ex-dividend following the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. The opening price of the DSM 
stock on that day is the exercise price of such stock options. Employee stock options can immediately be exercised and 
have a term of five years. 
Overview of stock options for employees 
Year of grant Outstanding at 
31 Dec. 2020 In 2021 Outstanding at 
31 Dec. 2021 Fair value 
on grant 
date (€)  Exercise 
price (€) Exercise 
period until Granted Exercised Average 
price 
(€) Forfeited/ 
expired 
2016 22,045 - (21,820) 147.31  (225) -  4.38  52.57  May 2021 
2017 47,450  - (18,455) 158.76 (250) 28,745 6.14  67.33  May 2022 
2018 96,335  - (34,030) 159.85 (750) 61,555 8.50  85.00  May 2023 
2019 163,400  - (59,835) 160.81 (1,050) 102,515  8.88 98.00  May 2024 
2020 117,890  - (44,970) 160.75 (1,380) 71,540  10.26 112.00  May 2025 
2021 Total 447,120  - (179,110) 158.75 (3,655) 264,355  
at 31 Dec. 2019 at 31 Dec. 2020 
2020 Total 637,810  190,630  (367,525) 130.61  (13,795) 447,120  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  265 Measurement of fair value  
The costs of share units are measured by reference to the fair value of the DSM share at the date on which the share units 
are granted, ex -dividend as the share units do not accumulate dividend during the three -year vesting period.  
The costs of option plans are measured by reference to the fair value of the options at the date on which the options are 
granted. The fair value is determined using the Black -Scholes model, taking into account market conditions linked to the 
price of the DSM share. Stock -price volatility is determined on the basis of historical volatilities of the DSM share price 
measured each month over a period equal to the expected option life. The costs of these options are recognized in the 
income statement (Employee benefit costs).  
Assumptions determining fair value  
The following assumptions were used to determine the fair value at grant date.  
Plan assumptions  
2021 2020 
Share units  
Risk-free rate  -0.60% -0.69%
Expected share life in years  3 3 
Nominal share life in years  3 3 
Share price in €  144.30  103.50  
Expected dividend in €  7.20 7.20 
Fair value of share granted in €  137.10  96.30  
Employee options  
Risk-free rate  - -0.74%  
Expected option life in years  - 2.5 
Nominal option life in years  - 5 
Share price in €  - 112.10  
Exercise price in €  - 112.10  
Volatility  - 20.0%  
Expected dividend  - 2.14%  
Fair value of option granted in €  - 10.26  
An amount of €22 million is included in the costs for wages and salaries for share -based compensation (2020: €29 million). 
The following table specifies the share -based compensation.  
Share -based compensation  
2021 2020 
Employee stock options  - 2 
Other stock options  2 - 
Share units  16 19 
Performance shares  4 8 
Total expense  22 29 
28 Related parties  
Koninklijke DSM N.V. is the group holding company that is listed on the Euronext Amsterdam stock exchange. The financial 
statements of the company are included in the section Parent company financial statements . Notes to  the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  266 In the ord inary course of business, DSM buys and sells goods and services from/to various related parties in which DSM 
has significant influence. Transactions are conducted under terms and conditions that are equivalent to those that apply 
to arm’s length transactio ns. 
Transactions and relationships with related parties are reported in the table below. 
Transactions with related parties  
Associates and joint ventures  
2021 2020 
Sales to  13 9 
Purchases from  87 51 
Loans to  1 4 
Receivables from  15 44 
Payables to  7 5 
Interest from  1 1 
Commitments to 4 3 
Transactions with joint ventures are immaterial.  
DSM may issue guarantees as credit enhancement of associates to acquire bank facilities for these associates. DSM has 
provided guarantees to third parties for debts of associates and to a third party (a former associate) for an amount of € 81 
million (20 20: €78 million).  
Other related -parties disclosures relate entirely to key management of DSM, being represented by the company ’s 
Managing Board, Executive Committee and the Supervisory Board. For further details about their remuneration, see Note 1 2 
Remuneration of Managing Board and Supervisory Board  to the Parent company financial statements.  
29 Service fees paid to external auditors  
The service fees recognized in the financial statements 2021 for the services of KPMG amounted to €5.8 million (2020: €5.7 
million). The amounts per service category are shown in the followin g table.  
Total service fee  Of which  
KPMG KPMG KPMG NL KPMG NL 
2021 2020 2021 2020 
Audit of the Group financial statements  4.5 4.5 3.0 3.0 
Audit of other (statutory) financial statements  0.7 0.6 0.1 - 
Other assurance services  0.6 0.6 0.6 0.6 
Total assurance services  5.8 5.7 3.7 3.6 
The service fees mentioned in the table for the audit of the financial statements 2021 (2020) relate to the total fees for th e 
audit of the financial statements 2021 (2020), irrespective of whether the activities have been performed during the 
financial y ear 2021 (2020).  
KPMG did not provide any non -assurance services in 2021 (2020: similar). The other assurance services rendered by KPMG 
in 2021 include assurance engagements on non -financial information, and on internal controls of DSM Pension Services, 
assurance engagements on government grants and regulatory filings, as well as agreed -upon procedures on certain 
information for the Remuneration Committee of Royal DSM and the pension fund and their external auditor.  Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  267 30 Events after the balance sheet date  
Following DSM’s announcement concerning its accelerated strategic journey to become a company focused on Health, 
Nutrition & Bioscience  on 14 September 2021, DSM changed its organizational structure  with effect from  1 January 2022. 
This change resulted in three new Business Groups : Food & Beverage (F&B), Health, Nutrition & Care (HNC), and Animal 
Nutrition & Health (ANH).  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  268 Parent company financial statements  
Balance sheet at  31 December of Koninklijke DSM N.V. before profit appropriation  
x € million  Notes  2021 2020 
Assets  
Intangible assets  2 464 825 
Financial assets  3 13,789  12,016  
Deferred tax assets  4 97 132 
Other deferred items  2 2 
Non-current assets  14,352  12,975  
Receivables  5 77 63 
Cash and cash equivalents  1 - 
Current assets  78 63 
Total  14,430  13,038  
. 
Shareholders' equity and liabilities  
Share capital  6 328 338 
Share premium  6 471 489 
Treasury shares  6 (177) (976)  
Legal reserves  6 460 (14) 
Other reserves, incl. retained earnings  6 6,700  7,196  
Undistributed results:  6 
-Net profit for the year 6 1,676  506 
-Less: interim dividend 6 (140)  (140)  
Shareholders' equity  6 9,318  7,399  
Borrowings  7 2,739  3,237  
Other non -current liabilities  8 8 
Non-current liabilities  2,747  3,245  
Current liabilities  
Other current liabilities  8 2,365  2,394  
Current liabilities  2,365  2,394  
Total  14,430  13,038  
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these parent company financial statements.Parent company financial statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  269 Income statement of Koninklijke DSM N.V.  
x € million  Notes  2021 2020 
Other income  1 18 20 
Cost of outsourced work and other external costs  (21) (17) 
Wages and salaries  10 (5) (9) 
Other movements in the value of intangible assets  (5) - 
Other operating expense  (1) (2) 
Total operating expenses  (32) (28) 
Operating profit  (14) (8) 
Financial expense  11 (106)  (95) 
Profit before income tax  (120) (103)  
Income tax  4 (3) 24 
Share of the profit of subsidiaries  3 1,784  585 
Profit after income tax  1,661 506 
Income from receivables attributable to non -current assets and from investments  15 - 
Net profit available to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V.  1,676  506 Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  270 Notes to the parent company financial statements  
1 General  
Unless stated otherwise, all amounts are in € million.  
Summary of the accounting policies  
These separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Title 9, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. The 
accounti ng policies used are the same as those used in the consolidated EU -IFRS financial statements, in accordance with 
the provisions of article 362 -8 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.  
In these separate financial statements, investments in subsidiaries are acc ounted for using the net asset value, with 
separate presentation of the goodwill component under intangible fixed assets . Results on transactions involving the 
transfer of assets and liabilities between the Company and its participating interests and mutua lly between participating 
interests themselves, are eliminated to the extent that they can be considered as not realized. For an appropriate 
interpretation of these statutory financial statements, the separate financial statements should be read in conjunc tion 
with the consolidated financial statements . 
Participating interests with a negative net asset value are valued at nil. This measurement also covers any receivables 
provided to the participating interests that are, in substance, an extension of the net  investment. In particular, this relates 
to loans for which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future. A share in the profits of the  
participating interest in subsequent years will only be recognised if and to the extent t hat the cumulative unrecognised 
share of loss has been absorbed. If the Company fully or partially guarantees the debts of the relevant participating 
interest, or if has the constructive obligation to enable the participating interest to pay its debts (for  its share therein), 
then a provision is recognised accordingly to the amount of the estimated payments by the Company on behalf of the 
participating interest.  
Information on the use of financial instruments and on related risks for the group is provided i n Note 23  of the 
consolidated financial statements.  The Company makes use of the option to eliminate intragroup expected credit losses 
against the book value of loans and receivables from the Company to participating interests, instead of elimination against 
the equity value / net asset value of the participating interests.  
Other income consists mainly of the charge out of the parent company related corporate overhead and services to the 
group companies, which is fully realized in the Netherlands.  
Statutory and fiscal seat  
The statutory seat of Koninklijke DSM N.V. is Het Overloon 1, Heerlen (Netherlands). A list of Koninklijke DSM N.V.’s  
participations has been filed with the Chamber of Commerce (Netherla nds) and is available from the company upon 
request, as well as on the company website . DSM is registered in the Dutch Commercial Reg ister under number 14022069.  
The company forms a fiscal unity for corporate income tax and VAT purposes together with the group companies in  the 
Netherlands . Each of the companies recognizes the portion of corporate income tax that the relevant company wou ld owe 
as an independent tax payer, taking into account the tax liabilities applicable to the company.  
Finalization PPA Erber  
In the reporting year, the Purchase Price Allocation (PPA) related to the Erber acquisition in 2020 was finalized, resulting in 
a decrease of the goodwill amount by -€46 million , representing 90% of the total goodwill adjustment of -€51 million, an 
increase of share in subsidiaries by €40 million and a decrease of other current liabilities of -€6 million . The comparative 
information for the reference year has been revised for these PPA adjustments. As the impact on the profit and loss 
account is negligible, no comparative information has been adjusted , see Note 3 Change in the scope of the consolidation  
to the 'Consolidated financial statements' .  Notes to the parent company financial statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  271 2 Intangible assets  
The carrying amount of intangible assets comprises goodwill on the acquisition of the Erber Group in 2020 (€423 million), 
Crina in 2006 (€ 9 million) and Pentapharm in 2007 (€3 2 million). The disposal of subsidiaries relates to the goodwill on 
NeoResins (€358 million ), that was derecognized as part of the divestment of the Resins & Functional Materials (together 
‘RFM’) and associated businesses, see Note 3 Change in the scope of the consolidation  to the 'Consolidated financial 
statements' . For full information on these a ssets  including the discussion of the related impairment tests, see Note 8 
Intangible assets  to the ‘Consolidated financial statements ’.  
Intangible assets of Koninklijke DSM N.V.  
Goodwill Under 
construction Other Total 
Balance at 1 January 2020  
Cost 402 4 88 494 
Amortization and impairment losses  - - (66) (66) 
Carrying amount  402 4 22 428 
Changes in carrying amount:  
-Acquisition 423 - - 423 
-Intragroup transfer - (4) (22) (26)
Balance at 31 December 2020  
Cost 825 - - 825 
Amortization and impairment losses  - - - - 
Carrying amount  825 - - 825 
. 
Changes in carrying amount:  
-Exchange rate difference 2 - - 2 
-Disposal subsidiaries (358)  - - (358)  
-Impairment (5) - - (5) 
Balance at  31 December 2021  464 - - 464 
Cost 469 - - 469 
Amortization and impairment losses  5 - - 5 
Carrying amount  464 - - 464 Notes to the parent company financial statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  272 3 Financial assets  
Share  in 
Subsidiaries  Other  
 participating  
 interests  Receivables  Total  
Balance at  1 January 2020  10,686  36 25 10,747  
Changes:  
-Share in profit 585 - - 585 
-Charged to income statement - - - 
- Dividend received  (227) - - (227) 
-Capital payments 715 - - 715 
-Acquisition of subsidiaries 432 - - 432 
-Net actuarial gains/(losses) (19) - - (19) 
-Change in Fair value reserve 93 5 - 98
-Change in Hedging reserve 31 - - 31 
-Exchange differences (453)  - - (453)  
-Intra -group transfers 130 - - 130 
-Other (20) - (3) (23)
Balance at 31 December 2020  11,953  41 22 12,016  
. 
Changes:  
-Share in profit 1,784  - - 1,784  
-Dividend received (385)  - - (385)  
-Disposal of subsidiaries (239)  - - (239)  
-Net actuarial gains/(losses) 132 - - 132 
-Change in Fair value reserve 81 (36) - 45 
-Change in Hedging reserve (33) - - (33) 
-Exchange differences 479 - - 479 
-Intra -group transfers 32 - - 32 
-Other (20) - (22) (42)
Balance at 31 December 2021  13,784  5 - 13,789
The disposal of subsidiaries relates to the divestment of the RFM business. The change in the fair value for Other 
participating interests relates to the fair value adjustment of DSM’s share in BCPE Max Dutch JVCo B.V. The decrease in 
receivables relates to collected earn -out receivables.  
4 Deferred tax assets  
The deferred tax asset of €97 million relates to net operating losses  and temporary differences in the Dutch fiscal unity , of 
which €56 million is recoverable within 1 year. The decrease of the deferred tax asset i n 2021 relates mainly to reversal of 
temporary differences and uncertainties under local law. The decrease in the effective tax rate from 23.3% in 2020 to 2.5% 
in 2021 was mainly due to tax exempt income related to the divestment of the RFM business, partly compensated by non -
deductible costs and uncertainties under local law.  
5 Receivables  
2021 2020 
Receivables from subsidiaries  58 49 
Other receivables  19 14 
Total  77 63 
The carrying values of the receivables are a reasonable approximation of their respective fair values, given the short Notes to the parent company financial statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  273 maturities of the positions and the fact that allowances for doubtful debts have been recognized, if necessary.  All 
receivables have an esti mated maturity shorter than one year.  
The Receivables from subsidiaries of €58 million (2020: €49 million) mainly include receivables relating to the Dutch fiscal 
unity.  
6 Shareholders’ equity  
x € million  Share 
capital  Share 
prem.  Treas. 
shares  Legal reserves  Other reserves  Undistri
buted 
results  Total 
share - 
holder 
equity  Trans- 
lation 
res. Capital 
dev. 
costs  Part. 
inte- 
rest Reval. 
reserve  Hedg. 
reserve  Fair 
value 
res. Share -
based 
comp.  Ret. 
Earn.  
Balance at  31 December 
2019 338  489  (905)  162 267  116  5  (122) - 51  6,711  619  7,731  
Added to other reserves  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  619  (619)  - 
Net profit  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  506 506 
Dividend  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - -  (283)  (140) (423)
Reissued shares  -  -  238  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  (32) - 206 
Acquisition of NCI without a 
change in control  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  (22) - (22)
Repurchase of shares  - -  (309)  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - (309)
Fair value changes of 
derivatives  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  40  -  -  -  -  40  
Release to income 
statement  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  20 -  -  -  -  20 
Fair value changes of other 
financial assets  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  106  -  -  -  106  
Transfer fair value reserve  -  -  -  -  -  -  (5) - 5 -  -  -  -  
Exchange differences  -  -  -  (451) - -  -  -  -  -  -  -  (451) 
Options and performance 
shares granted  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - 29 -  -  29 
Options and performance 
shares exercised/canceled  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - (39) 39  -  -  
Transfer to retained 
earnings  -  -  -  -  (44) 4 -  -  (30) - 70 -  -  
Changes in joint ventures 
and associates  -  -  -  (2) - -  -  -  -  -  -  -  (2) 
Income tax  -  -  -  2  -  -  -  (6) (8) -  -  -  (12) 
Remeasurements of defined 
benefit pension plans  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  (20) - (20)
Balance at 31 December 
2020 338  489  (976)  (289) 223 120  - (68) 73 41  7,082  366  7,399   
. 
Added to other reserves  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - -  366 (366)  - 
Net profit  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  1,676   1,676   
Dividend  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - -  (281) (140) (421)
Reissued shares  -  -  218  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  (25) - 193  
Acquisition of NCI without a 
change in control  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  (20) - (20)
Cancellation of treasury 
shares  (10) (18) 746  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  (718) - -  
Repurchase of shares  - -  (165) -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - (165) 
Fair value changes of 
derivatives  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  (24) - -  -  -  (24) 
Release to income 
statement  -  -  -  (13) - -  - 7 -  -  -  -  (6) 
Fair value changes of other 
financial assets  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  46  -  -  -  46  
Transfer fair value reserve  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  (8) - 8  -  -  
Exchange differences  -  -  -  478 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  478  
Options and performance 
shares granted  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - 22 -  -  22 
Options and performance 
shares exercised/canceled  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - (24) 24 -  -  
Transfer to retained 
earnings  -  -  -  -  16  1  -  -  (93) - 76 -  -  
Changes in joint ventures 
and associates  -  -  -  1  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  1  
Income tax  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  8 (1) - -  - 7 
Remeasurements of defined 
benefit pension plans  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  132  - 132 
Balance at 31 December 
2021 328  471  (177) 177 239  121  - (77) 17  39  6,644   1,536   9,318   Notes to the parent company financial statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  274 For details see the consolidated statement of changes in Note 16 Equity  to the ‘C onsolidated financial statements ’. 
Legal  reserve s 
In Shareholders’ equity, a total amount of € 460 million (20 20: -€14 million) is included for legal reserves required by Dutch  
law. The translation reserve relates to exchange gains and losses  arising from the translation of the functional currency of 
foreign operations to the reporting currency of Koni nklijke DSM  N.V. Further, a legal reserve is recorded for capitalized 
development costs. The legal reserve for participating interests is recorded to the extent that there are limitations for 
Koninklijke DSM N.V.  to arrange profit distributions from its pa rticipating interests. The hedging reserve relates to cash flow 
hedge accounting. The negative hedge reserve of  -€77 million  (2020: -€68 million ) as part of the legal reserve should be 
deducted from the freely distributable  reserve. In addition, a revaluat ion reserve has been included for fair value changes 
of unquoted equity instruments of participating interests with no frequent notations owned by DSM;  debit balances are  
recorded as part of Other reserves, which are considered freely distributable  reserve s.  
Other  reserve s 
The Other reserves comprise a Fair value reserve  for fair value changes of unquoted equity instruments of  participating 
interests  with frequent notations , debit balance s of the legal reserve for fair value changes of unquoted equity 
instruments of  participating interests owned by DSM, and a Reserve for share -based compensation . 
In the ‘Consolidated financial statements’, the Other reserves consist of the Translation reser ve, Fair value reserve, 
Hedging reserve and Reserve for share -based compensation. See Note 16 Equity  to the ‘C onsolidated financial statements ’. 
Profit appropriation  
According to article 32 of the Ar ticles of Association of Koninklijke DSM N.V. and with the approval of the Supervisory Board, 
every year the Managing Board  determines the portion of the net profit to be appropriated to the reserves. For the year 
2021, the net profit is  €1,676  million (20 20: €506 million) and the amount to be appropriated to the reserves has been 
established at € 1,238  million (20 20: €86 million). From the subsequent  balance of the net profit of €438 million (20 20: €420 
million), dividend is first distributed on the Cumulative Preference Shares B. At the end of 20 21, no Cumulative Preference 
Shares B were in issue (same as for 20 20). Subsequently, 2.52% (2020: 2.94%) dividend is distributed on the Cumulative 
Preference Shares A, based on a share price of € 5.29 (2020: €5.29) per Cumulative Preference Share A. For 20 21, this 
distribution amounts to  €0.13 (2020: €0.1 6) per share, which is € 6 million in total. An interim dividend of € 0.05 per 
Cumulative Preference Share A pai d in August 20 21, the final dividend will then amount to € 0.08 per Cumulative Preference 
Share A.  
The profit remaining after distribution of these dividends on the Cumulative Preference Shares A o f €432 million  
(2020: €413 million) will be put at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders in accordance with the 
provisions of Article 32, section 5 of the Articles of Association.  
The Managing Board proposes a dividend on ordinary shares outstanding for the yea r 2021 of €2.50 (2020: €2.40) per share. 
With an interim dividend of € 0.80 (2020: €0.80) per ordinary share paid in August 20 21, the final dividend will then amount 
to €1.70 (2020: €1.60) per ordinary share.  
If the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders ma kes a decision in accordance with the proposal, the net profit will be 
appropriated as follows . 
in € million  2021 2020 
Net profit for the year  1,676  506 
Profit appropriation:  
-To be added to the reserves 1,238  86 
-Dividend on Cumulative Preference Shares A 6 7 
-Interim dividend on ordinary shares 138 137 
-Final dividend distributable on ordinary shares 294 276 Notes to the parent company financial statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  275 7 Borrowings  
2021 2020 
Total  Of which 
current  Total  Of which 
current  
Debenture loans  2,739  - 3,237  - 
Total  2,739  - 3,237  - 
At 31 December 20 21, there were five debenture loans  (€2,739  million, maturing in 2024, 2025, 2026  and from 202 6 through 
2032). During 2021, the debenture loan in the amount of €500 million originally maturing in 2022, was early redeemed.  
The repayment schedule for borrowings is as follows . 
Borrowings by maturity  
In agreements governing loans with a residual amount at year -end 202 1 of €2,739  million (31 December 20 20: €3,237  
million), clauses have been included which restrict the provision of security. More information on borrowings is provided 
in Note 19 Borrowings  to the 'Consolidated financial statements'.  
8 Other current liabilities  
2021 2020 
Liabilities to subsidiaries  2,347  2,308  
Other liabilities  18 86 
Total  2,365  2,394  
The Liabilities to subsidiaries concern mainly the current account toward the DSM internal financing company. These 
liabilities carry a short -term maturity and are interest -bearing. The increase of this current account in 2021 is mainly 
caused by changing financing needs.  
The carrying values of the recorded liabilities are a reasonable approximation of their respective fair values, given the 
short maturities  of the positions.  The decrease in the other liabilities relates mainly to the payment of the deferr ed 
consideration for the Erber Group  acquisition . All liabilities have an estimated maturity shorter than one year.  
9 Contingent liabilities  
Guarantee obligations on behalf of affiliated companies and third parties amounted to € 628 million  (31 December 20 20: 
€521 million). Koninklijke DSM N.V. has declared in writing that it accepts several liabilities for debts arising from acts in 
law of a number of consolidated companies (including relating to the Dutch fiscal unity for income tax and VAT). These 
debts a re included in the consolidated balance sheet.  2021 2020 
2022 - 500 
2023 - - 
2024 499 499 
2025 and 2026  1,248  1,246  
After 2026  992 992 
Total  2,739  3,237  Notes to the parent company financial statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  276 10 Personnel  
During the 2021 financial year, the average number of staff employed by DSM N.V. amounted to 2 employees (2020: 2). Both 
were employed inside the Netherlands.  
11 Financial expense  
Financial expense of € 106 million (20 20: net € 95 million) mainly consists of the interest costs on bonds issued and the 
counterpart of the net investment hedge. See also Note 19 Borrowings  and Note 23 Financial instruments and risks  to the 
‘Consolidated financial statements ’. 
12 Remuneration of Managing Board and Supervisory Board  
Disclosure of the total board remuneration is based on section 383 book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Furthermore, the 
members of the Executive C ommittee (which includes the Managing Board) and the Supervisory Board meet the definition 
of key management personnel as defined in IAS 24 ‘Related Parties’. IAS 24 requires disclosure of the total of short -term 
employee benefits (salary and Short-Term incentive), post -employment (pension expenditure) and other long -term 
benefits (none), termination benefits and share -based payment cost ( share-based compensation), which are reported in 
the table below . 
Key management personnel compensation and total boar d remuneration  
2021 2020 
Salary  4,443  5,145  
Short -Term incentive  3,474  2,679  
Pension expenditure  801 956 
Share -based compensation  3,774  7,526  
Other  2,216 3,628  
Total key management personnel compensation  14,708  19,934  
Of which: Managing Board remuneration¹  5,830  12,096  
. 
Supervisory Board remuneration  805 806 
1   See Remuneration report 2021.  
The difference in tota l key managemen t personne l compensatio n is determined by changes in the composition o f the 
Executi ve Committee, resulti ng in lowe r amount s on salar y and pe nsion contributio n in 202 1 while the higher STI over 2021 
represent s the developme nt of the busines s performance . The 202 0 tota l compensatio n include s the impac t of the CEO 
chang e in 202 0 (share-based compensatio n and an amou nt subjec t to article 32bb of the Dutch Wag e Tax Act).  Notes to the parent company financial statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  277 Heerlen, 1 March 2022
Managing Board,  
Geraldine Matchett, Co-CEO 
Dimitri de Vreeze, Co-CEO Heerlen, 1 March 2022 
Supervisory Board, 
Thomas Leysen , Chair 
John Ramsay, Deputy Chair 
Eileen Kennedy 
Carla Mahieu 
Erica Mann
Frits van Paasschen 
Pradeep Pant 
Corien Wortmann-Kool Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  278 Other information  
Independent auditor ’s report  
To: the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and the Supervisory Board  of Koninklijke DSM N.V.  
Report on the audit of the financial statements 2021 included in  the 
Integrated A nnual Report  
Our opinion  
In our opinion:  
-the accompanying consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of
Koninklijke DSM N.V.  (hereafter: Royal DSM) as at 31 December 202 1 and of its result and its cash flows for the year
then ended, in accordance with In ternational Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union
(EU-IFRS) and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
-the accompanying  parent  company financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of Royal
DSM as at 31 December 202 1 and of its result for the year then ended in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the
Dutch Civil Code.
What we have audited  
We have audited the financial statements 2021 of Royal DSM  based in  Heerlen . The financial statements include t he 
consolidated financial statements and the  parent  company financial statements . 
The consolidated financial statements comprise : 
1the consolidated balance sheet  as at  31 December 202 1; 
2the following consolidated statements for 2021: the income statement, the statements of comprehensive income, 
changes in equity and cash flows ; and 
3the notes comprising a summary of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information . 
The parent company financial statements comprise : 
1the parent  company balance sheet as at 31 December 202 1; 
2the parent company income statement for 2021; and  
3the notes comprising a summary of the accounting policies and other explanatory information.  
Basis for our opinion  
We conducted our audit in accordance with Du tch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities 
under those standards are further described in the ‘Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements’ section 
of our report.  
We are independent of Royal DSM  in accordance with the ‘Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij 
assurance -opdrachten ’ (ViO, Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence) and 
other relevant independence regulations in the Neth erlands. Furthermore, we have complied with the ‘Verordening 
gedrags - en beroepsregels accountants ’ (VGBA, Dutch Code of Ethics).  Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  279 Our audit procedures were determined  in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole . Our observations 
in respect of going concern, fraud and non -compliance with laws and regulations, climate and the key audit matters 
should be viewed in that context  and not as  separate opinion s or conclusions . 
We believe the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and a ppropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.  
Audit approach  
Summary  
Materiality 
-Materiality of EUR 45 million
-4.8% of normalized profit before income tax expense
Group audit  
-Audit coverage of 79% of total assets
-Audit coverage of 76% of net sales
Going concern and Fraud/Noclar  
-Going concern: no significant going concern risks identified
-Fraud & Non-compliance with laws and regulations (Noclar): we identified management override of controls
and revenue recognition, laid down in the auditing standards, as the presumed fraud risks.
Climate -related risks  
-Royal DSM’s strategy, risk assessment and possible future effects of climate change have been disclosed.
-We have considered the impact of climate-related risks on our identification and assessment of risks of
material misstatement in the financial statements.
Key audit matters  
-Accounting for acquisitions of  Amyris’ Flavour & Fragrance business and First Choice Ingredients.
-Divestment of Resins and Functional Materials and associated businesses.
Opinion  
Unqualified  
Materiality  
Based on our professional judgement we determined the materiality for the financial statements as a whole at  
EUR 45 million (20 20: EUR 45 million). The materiality is determined with reference to profit before  income  tax expense , 
normalized  for acquisition/divestment related expenses to arrive at a normalized level , resulting in a percentage of 4.8% 
(2020: 5.9%). We consider  this normalized  profit before  income  tax expense  as the most appropriate benchmark following  
our analysis of the common information needs of users of the financial statements. For 202 1 and 20 20, this benchmark  has 
been influenced by the divestment  of the Resins and Functional Materials  and associated businesses . Although included in  
net profit for the year, the results  of these businesses and related activi ties, including the result from the disposal in 2021,  
have been presented separate  from  continu ing operations, and are no longer part of (normalized) profit before  income  tax 
expense . In addition, the appropriateness of the materiality was assessed by comp aring the amount to consolidated net Other Information – Independent auditor’s report Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  280 Total assets  
70% 9% 21%
Audit of the complete  
 reporting package  Specified audit procedures  Central procedures remaining 
components  
Total net sales  
57% 19% 24% 
Audit of the complete  
 reporting package  Specified audit procedures  Central procedures remaining 
components  Other Information – Independent auditor’s report 
sales of which it represents 0.5% (2020: 0.6%). We have also taken into account misstatements and/or possible 
misstatements that in our opinion are material for the users of the financial statements for qualitative reasons. 
We agreed with the Supervisory Board that misstatements identified during our audit in excess of EUR 2 million would be 
reporte d to them, as well as smaller misstatements that in our view must be reported on qualitative grounds. 
Scope of the group audit 
Royal DSM is at the head of a group of components. The financial information of this group is included in the financial 
statements of Royal DSM. 
Because we are ultimately responsi ble for the auditor’s report, we are also responsible for directing, supervising and 
performing the group audit. In this respect we have determined the nature and extent of the audit procedures to be 
carried out for components reporting for group audit purposes. Decisive were the size and/or the risk profile of the 
components or operations. Based on our risk assessment, we selecte d 23 components (2020: 26 components) to perform 
audits for group reporting purposes on a complete set of financial information. In addition, we selected 13 components 
(2020: 16 components) to perform specified audit procedures for group reporting purposes on specific items of financial 
information. 
This resulted in a coverage of 76% (2020: 73%) of total net sales and 79% (2020: 79%) of total assets. The remaining 24% of 
total net sales (2020: 27%) and 21% of total assets (2020: 21%) is represented by a significant number of components 
(‘Remaining components ’), none of which individually represent more than 3% of total net sales and 2% of total assets.  
For these remaining components, we performed among others analytical procedures to validate our assessment that there 
are no risks of material misstatement within these components. 
Our procedures as described above can be summarized as follows: Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  281 We have:  
-performed audit procedures at group level in respect of areas such as the annual goodwill impairment tests,
other asset impairment (trigger) assessments, income tax for the Dutch fiscal unities, acquisitions of subsidiaries,
accounting for divestments, restructuring provisions, treasury and shared service centers; and
-used the work of local KPMG (‘component auditors’) when auditing financial information or performing specified
audit procedures at component level.
The group audit team has se t materiality levels for the components, which ranged from EUR 5 million to EUR 12.5 million 
(2020: EUR 2 million to EUR 12.5 million), based on the mix of size and risk profile of the respective components.  
The group audit team provided  detailed instructi ons to all  Business Group and component  auditors  part of the group 
audit, cover ing the significant audit areas , includ ing the relevant risks of material misstatement , and the information 
required to be reported back to the group audit team.  
The group audit  team scheduled (virtual) site visit meetings with local component auditors and local component 
management in the United States of America, Switzerland, Austria , China and the shared service center in India  to review 
selected component auditor documentatio n. In view of restrictions due to the Covid -19 pandemic , travelling  to component 
audit teams was not always practicable , and we only visited  in person the  component  auditors a nd Royal DSM’s  locations 
in the United States of America and Austria .  
As a result, we have requested selected component auditors to provide us with remote access to audit workpapers to 
perform these evaluations. In addition, due to the inability to arrange in -person meetings with component auditors  and 
local management , we h ave increased the use of alternative methods of communication with them, including issuing 
additional written instructions, exchange of emails and virtual meetings.  
Virtual  meetings  were held with all component  auditors that participated in the group audit . During these  (virtual)  visits 
and meetings , we discussed the audit approach  and the  audit findings and observations reported to the group audit team. 
By performing the procedures mentioned above at group components , together with additional procedures a t group level, 
we have been able to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence about the group’s financial information to provide 
an opinion about the financial statements.  
Audit response to going concern – no significant going concern risks identifi ed 
The Managing B oard has performed its going concern assessment and has not identified any significant going concern 
risks. To assess management’s assessment, we have performed, among other things, the following procedures:  
-we considered whether the Manag ing Board’s assessment of the going concern risks includes all relevant
information of which we are aware as a result of our audit;
-we inspected the financing agreement s for terms or conditions that coul d lead to significant going concern risks;
-we analy zed the operating results forecast and the related cash flows compared to the previous financial year,
developments in the business sector and any information of which we are aware as a result of our audit ;
-we analy zed the company’s financial position as at year -end and compared it to the previous financial year in
terms of indicators that could identify significant going concern risks.
The outcome of our risk assessment procedures did not give reason to p erform additional audit procedures on 
management’s going concern assessment.  
Audit response to the risk of fraud and non -compliance with laws and regulations  
In the chapter “Corporate governance and risk management” of the Integrated Annual Report, the Man aging Board 
describes its procedures in respect of the risks of fraud and non -compliance with laws and regulations. In the chapter 
“Supervisory Board Report”, the supervisory board reflects on this.  Other Information – Independent auditor’s report Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  282 As part of our audit, we have gained insights into Royal DSM and its business environment, and evaluated the design and 
implementation of Royal DSM’s risk assessment in relation to fraud and non -compliance. Our procedures included, among 
other things, assessing Royal DSM’s code of business conduct, alert cases ( whistleblowing procedures), compliance 
policies and its procedures to investigate indications of possible fraud and non -compliance. Furthermore, we performed 
relevant inquiries with the Managing Board, Supervisory Board and other relevant functions, such a s the Corporate 
Operational Audit department, Legal Counsel and Fraud Committee. As part of our audit procedures, we:  
-assessed other positions held by Managing Board members and Executive Committee members and paid special
attention to procedures and governance in view of possible conflicts of interest;
-evaluated indications of possible fraud and non -compliance;
-evaluated  correspondence with supervisory authorities and regulators as well as legal confirmation letters.
In addition, we performed procedures to obtain an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are 
applicable to Royal DSM and identified the f ollowing areas as those most likely to have a material effect on the financial 
statements:  
-Health and safety regulation (reflecting the nature of Royal DSM’s production and distribution processes);
-Environmental regulation (reflecting the environmental c lean-up responsibilities related to mainly Royal DSM’s
former production and distribution processes);
-Competition legislation (reflecting Royal DSM’s operations across the world and potential investigations by
national competition authorities);
-Employment legislation (reflecting Royal DSM’s significant and geographically diverse work force);
-Consumer product law relating to product safety (reflecting the nature of Royal DSM’s diverse product base).
We, together with our forensics specialists, evaluated th e fraud and non -compliance risk factors to consider whether those 
factors indicate a risk of material misstatement in the financial statements.  
Based on the above and the auditing standards, we identified the following fraud risks that are relevant to our  audit, 
including the relevant presumed risks laid down in the auditing standards, and responded as follows:  
Management override of controls (a presumed risk)  
Risk: 
-Fraud risk related to management override and alteration of (financial) results to meet ex ternal expectations, to
maintain/increase current stock price and to meet bonus targets.
Responses:  
-We evaluated the design and the implementation of internal controls that mitigate fraud risks with respect to
journal entries .
-We performed data analys es on high -risk journal entries and evaluated key estimates and judgements for bias by
management, such as estimates relating to impairment testing  of goodwill  and development projects,  accounting
for retirement and other post -employment benefits  and accounti ng for acquisitions, including retrospective
reviews of prior year's estimates. Where we identified instances of unexpected journal entries or other risks
through our data analytics, we performed additional audit procedures to address each identified risk.  These
procedures also included testing of transactions back to source information.
-We incorporated elements of unpredictability in our audit , including  revising our selection criteria in our data
analys es of high -risk journal entries  and in performing  data analytics procedures  such as risk assessment
analytics in the sales process  to identify possible increased fraud risks .Other Information – Independent auditor’s report Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  283 Revenue recognition (a presumed risk)  
Risk: 
-Fraudulent revenue recognition on sales cut -off around  the end of the reporting period is an inherent risk within
Royal DSM .
Responses:  
-In addition to the procedures already mentioned above, we evaluated the design and the implementation of
internal controls that mitigate fraud risks with respect to revenue recognition.
-Depending on local facts and circumstances our component auditors identified either revenue recognized before
or subsequent to year -end as the period associated with the fraud risk.
-To assess whether revenue was recognized in the appropriate p eriod, for selected sales transactions recognized
around year -end we inspected agreements with the customers and shipping documents.
-Further, we inspected selected credit notes issued around year -end to assess whether revenue was recognized in
the correct reporting period.
Our procedures to address the identified risks of fraud did not result in a key audit matter.  
We communicated our risk assessment, audit responses and results to the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board.  
Our audit procedures  did not reveal indications and/or reasonable suspicion of fraud and non -compliance that are 
considered material for our audit.  
Audit response to climate -related risks  
The Managing Board is responsible for preparing the financial statements in accordance w ith the applicable financial 
reporting framework, including considering whether the implications from climate -related risks and commitments have 
been appropriately accounted for and disclosed. The Managing Board has performed its analysis of the impact of climate -
related risks on Royal DSM’s business and operations going forward. In the ‘Climate -related risks’ chapter, included in the 
‘Corporate Governance and risk management’ section, the Managing Board concluded that currently no material short -
term clima te risks have been identified through specific climate risk assessments or regular risk assessments.  
The evaluation of the effectiveness of Royal DSM’s strategy against internal or external goals set is not in scope of our 
audit of the financial statement s. As part of our audit we consider potential effects of climate -related risks on the 
accounts and disclosures, including estimates and judgements in the current year’s financial statements to determine 
whether the financial statements are free from materi al misstatements. This includes discussion with the Managing Board 
and the Supervisory Board of Royal DSM’s strategy in relation to climate change, and inspecting minutes and external 
communications for significant climate related commitments, strategies a nd plans made by management.  
Our key audit matters  
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the 
financial statements. We have communicated the key audit matters to the  Supervisory Bo ard. The key audit matters  are 
not a comprehensive reflection of all matters discussed . 
Compared to last year the key audit matter with respect to the impairment of cash generating units is not included, as this 
specifically relates to the impairments that  were recorded in the financial year 2020 . Other Information – Independent auditor’s report Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  284 Accounting for acquisitions of Amyris’  Flavour & Fragrance business and First Choice 
Ingredients  
Description  
As disclosed in Note 3 to the financial statements, during 2021, Royal DSM completed the acquisitions of Amyris’ Flavour 
& Fragrance business and First Choice Ingredients. The acquisitions involved a total consideration of EUR 592 million 
and had an aggregated impact on Goodwill and Intangible assets of EUR 219 million and EUR 350 million, res pectively.  
The acquisitions were significant to our audit due to the financial impact and complexity of purchase price accounting 
including related judgements and assumptions used in the determination of the fair values of assets acquired and 
liabilities a ssumed.   
Our response  
We inspected the agreements and other documents underlying the acquisitions to gain an understanding of the 
contractual terms and conditions to assess the consideration and the acquired identifiable assets and liabilities. We 
obtaine d the reports from the external valuation experts engaged by Royal DSM to assist management with the 
purchase price accounting and the identification of identifiable assets and liabilities in the respective business 
combinations. We involved valuation spec ialists to evaluate management’s valuation models, and assumptions used 
such as growth rates and discount rates to arrive at the fair value of assets and liabilities recognized in the purchase 
price allocation. Our assessment of key assumptions used by man agement included a comparison with available 
external information such as market indices and financial metrics of peer companies.  
Finally, we assessed the adequacy of the presentation and disclosure (Note 3) of the acquisitions in the financial 
statements.  
Our observation  
We consider that the outcome of the purchase price accounting is reasonable. The acquisitions are adequately 
disclosed in Note 3 to the financial statements.  Other Information – Independent auditor’s report Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  285 Divestment of Resins and Functional Materials and associated businesses  
Description  
As disclosed in Note 3 to the financial statements, on 1 April 2021, Royal DSM completed the sale of its Resins and 
Functional Materials and associated businesses (‘RFM business’) to Covestro for a consideration of EUR 1.6 billion. The 
net book  result on the transaction amounts to EUR 570 million.  
The divestment is significant to our audit due to the amounts involved and its impact on the financial statements. 
Furthermore, the transaction is non -routine and involves a certain level of management  judgement in calculating the 
capital gain tax that is part of the net book result.  
Our response  
We inspected the contractual agreements and other relevant documents underlying the divestment in order to 
understand key terms and conditions and to assess t he accounting impact. We verified that the deconsolidation of the 
RFM business has been recorded at the date of disposal. As part of our audit procedures we assessed the book result by 
vouching the sales price to the contractual agreement, the cash receipt s to bank statements, the net asset values that 
have been de -consolidated to underlying accounting records and allocated  transaction costs to underlying supporting 
documentation such as invoices and contractual agreements.  
In relation to the capital gain tax, we inspected documentation underlying the determination of the capital gain such as 
the relevant income tax return and assessed the underlying assumptions and calculations. Furthermore, we have 
involved our KPMG tax specialists.  
Finally, we assessed t he adequacy of the presentation as discontinued operations and the disclosure (Note 3) of the
divestment in the financial statements.Our observation  
We consider that the net book result, as well as the presentation of the results as those from discontinu ing operations, 
are adequately reflected and disclosed in Note 3 to the financial statements.  Other Information – Independent auditor’s report Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  286 Report on the other information included in the Integrated Annual Report  
In addition to the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon, the Integrated Annual Report  contains other 
information.  
Based on the following procedures performed, we conclude that the other information : 
-is consistent with the financial statements and does not contain material misstatements ; and
-contains the information as required by Part  9 of Book  2 of the Dutch Civil Code  for the report by the Managing
Board and other information.
We have read the other information. Based on  our knowledge and understanding obtained through our audit of the 
financial statements or otherwise, we have considered whether the other information contains material misstatements . 
By performing these procedures, we compl y with the requirements of Part  9 of Book  2 of the Dutch Ci vil Code and the 
Dutch Standard  720. The scope of the procedures performed is less than the scope of those performed in our audit of the 
financial statements .  
The Managing Board  is responsible for the preparation of the ot her information, including the information as required by 
Part 9 of Book  2 of the Dutch Civil Code . 
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements  and ESEF  
Engagement  
We were engaged by the  Annual  General Meeting of Shareholders as auditor of Royal DSM  on 7 May 2014 , as of the audit 
for the year 2015 and have operated as statutory auditor ever since that financial year . 
No prohibited non -audit services  
We have not provided prohibited non -audit services as referred to in Article  5(1) of the EU  Regulation on sp ecific 
requirements regarding statutory audit s of public -interest entities . 
European Single Electronic Format (ESEF)  
Royal DSM has prepared its Integrated Annual Report in ESEF. The requirements for this format are set out in the 
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2019/815 with regard to regulatory technical standards on the specification of a 
single electronic reporting format (these requirements are hereinafter referr ed to as: the RTS on ESEF).  
In our opinion, the Integrated Annual Report prepared in the XHTML format, including the partially tagged consolidated 
financial statements as included in the reporting package by Royal DSM, has been prepared in all material respects in 
accordance with the  RTS on ESEF.  
The Managing Board is responsible for preparing the Integrated Annual Report including the financial statements in 
accordance with the RTS on ESEF, whereby the Managing Board combines the various components into a single reporting 
package. Ou r responsibility is to obtain reasonable assurance for our opinion whether the annual report in this reporting 
package, is in accordance with the RTS on ESEF.  
Our procedures taking into consideration Alert 43 of NBA (the Netherlands Institute of Chartered Accountants), included 
amongst others:  Other Information – Independent auditor’s report Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  287 -obtaining an understanding of the Royal DSM's financial reporting process, including the preparation of the
reporting package;
-obtaining the reporting package and performing validations to determine whether the report ing package
containing the Inline XBRL instance document and the XBRL extension taxonomy files have been prepared in
accordance with the technical specifications as included in the RTS on ESEF;
-examining the information related to the consolidated financia l statements in the reporting package to determine
whether all required tagging has been applied and whether these are in accordance with the RTS on ESEF.
Description of responsibilities regarding the financial statements  
Responsibilities of the Managing B oard  and the  Supervisory Board  for the financial statements  
The Managing Board  is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance 
with EU -IFRS and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Furthermore, the Ma naging Board is responsible for such 
internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial statements that are 
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error . In that respect the Managing Board, u nder supervision of 
the Supervisory Board, is responsible for the prevention and detection of fraud and non -compliance with laws and 
regulations, including determining measures to resolve the consequences of it and to prevent recurrence.   
As part of the pr eparation of the financial statements, the Managing Board is responsible for assessing the Royal DSM’s  
ability to continue as a going concern. Based on the financial reporting frameworks mentioned, the Managing Board 
should prepare the financial statements  using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Managing Board either 
intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so . The Managing Board  
should disclose events and circumstances that may cast s ignificant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going 
concern in the financial statements.   
The Supervisory Board  is responsible for overseeing the Royal DSM ’s financial reporting process.  
Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements  
Our objective is to plan and perform the audit engagement  in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate 
audit evidence for our opinion .  
Our audit has been performed with a high, but not absolute, level of assurance, which means we may not detect all 
material errors and fraud during our audit . 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could 
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decision s of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. The 
materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified 
misstatements on our opinion .  
A further description of our responsibi lities for the audit of the financial statements is included in appendix of this 
auditor's report. This description forms part of our auditor’s report.  
Amstelveen, 1 March 202 2 
KPMG Accountants N.V.  
P.J. Groenland – van d er Linden RA  
Appendix:  
Description  of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statementsOther Information – Independent auditor’s report Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  288 Appendix  
Description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements  
We have exercised professional judgement and have maintained professional scepticism  throughout the audit, in 
accordance with Dutch Standards on Auditing, ethical requirements and independence requirements. Our audit included 
among others:  
-identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or
error, designing and performing audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtaining audit evidence that is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement
resulting from fraud is higher than the risk  resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery,
intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of int ernal control ;
-obtaining an understanding of  internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of Royal
DSM’s internal  control;
-evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and
related disclosures made by  the Managing Board;
-concluding on the appropriateness of the Managing Board’s  use of the going concern basis  of accounting, and
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that
may cast significant doubt on Royal DSM’s  ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material
uncertaint y exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the
financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on
the audit evidence obtained up to the dat e of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may
cause a company to cease to continue as a going concern ;
-evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures ;
and
-evaluating w hether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that
achieves fair presentation .
We are solely  responsible for the opinion  and therefore responsible to o btain sufficient appropriate audit evidence 
regarding the  financial information of the entities or business activities within the group to express an opinion on the 
financial statements.  In this respect we are also responsible for directing, supervising and performing the group audit . 
We communicate with the Supervisory Board  regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit 
and significant audit findings, including any significant findings in internal control that we identify during our audit. In this 
respect we also submit an additional  report to the Supervisory Board  in accordance with Article 11 of the EU Regulation on 
specific requirements regarding statutory audits of public -interest entities. The information included in this additional 
report is consistent with our audit opinion in this auditor’s report.  
We provide the Supervisory Board  with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding 
independence, and to communicate with them  all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bea r 
on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards . 
From the matters communicated with the  Supervisory Board,  we determine the key audit matters: those matters that were 
of most significance in the au dit of the financial statements . We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law 
or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances , not communicating 
the matter is in the public interest .Other Information – Independent auditor’s report Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  289 Assurance report of the independent auditor  
To: the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and the Superv isory Board of Koninklijke DSM N.V.  
Report on the audit of the Sustainability information 20 21 included in  the 
Integrated Annual Report  
Our opinion  
We have audited the sustainability information in the sections ‘Key data’, ’Co -CEO letter, ‘Our approach to the Sustainable 
Development Goals’, ‘Report by the Managing Board, consisting of the chapters Purpose, Strategy, Case studies, 
Stakeholders, People and Planet’, the ‘Non -financial reporting policy’ , the 'Sustainability Statements' (excluding section ‘2. 
EU Taxonomy’  of the ‘ Notes to the Sustainability statements ’) and the ‘Sustainability tables’ , as included in the Integrated 
Annual Report for the yea r 2021 (hereafter: the ‘Sustainability Information’) of Koninklijke DSM N.V. (hereafter 'Royal DSM'), 
based in Heerlen, the Netherlands. An audit is aimed to obtain reasonable assurance.  
In our opinion, the Sustainability Information is prepared, in all ma terial respects, in accordance with the GRI 
Sustainability Reporting Standards and Royal DSM's internally developed supplemental reporting criteria as disclosed in 
the section Non-financial reporting polic y included in the chapter ‘Reporting policies’ of the Integrated Annual Report . 
Basis for our opinion  
We have conducted our audit on the Sustainability Information in accordance with Dutch law, including Dutch Standard 
3810N 'Assurance -opdrachten inzake ma atschappelijke verslagen' (Assurance engagements relating to sustainability 
reports), which is a specified Dutch standard that is based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 
3000 'Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews o f Historical Financial Information'. Our responsibilities in this 
regard are further described in the ‘Our responsibilities for the audit of the Sustainability Information’ section of our 
report.  
We are independent of Royal DSM in accordance with the ‘Vero rdening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij 
assurance -opdrachten’ (ViO, Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence). 
Furthermore, we have complied with the ‘Verordening gedrags - en beroepsregels accou ntants’ (VGBA, Dutch Code of 
Ethics).  
We believe the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.  
Reporting  criteria  
The Sustainability Information needs to be read and understood together with the reporting c riteria. Royal DSM is solely 
responsible for selecting and applying these reporting criteria, taking into account applicable law and regulations related 
to reporting.  
The reporting criteria used for the preparation of the Sustainability Information are the  GRI Sustainability Reporting 
Standards a nd Royal DSM's internally developed supplemental reporting criteria as disclosed in the section Non-financial 
reporting policy  included in the chapter ‘Reporting po licies’ of the Integrated Annual Report.  
The GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards are the most widely adopted global standards for sustainability reporting and 
are used by Royal DSM for reporting publicly on its economic, environmental and social s ustain ability indicators . Other Information – Assurance report of the independent auditor 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  290 Materiality  
Based on our professional judgement we determined materiality levels for each relevant part of the Sustainability 
Information  as included in the Integrated Annual Report . When evaluating our materiality levels, we have taken into 
account quantitative and qualitative considerations as well as the relevance of information for both stakeholders and 
Royal DSM . 
Scope of the group audit  
Royal DSM is the head of a group of components. The Sustain ability Information incorporates the consolidated 
information of this group of components.  
Our group audit procedures consisted of audit procedures at corporate and component level. Our selection of 
components in scope of our audit procedures is primarily based on the component's individual contribution to the 
consolidated Sustainability Information. Furthermore, our selection of components considered relevant reporting risks and 
geographical spread.  
By performing our procedures at corporate and component l evel, we have been able to obtain sufficient and appropriate 
audit evidence about Royal DSM's reported Sustainability Information to provide an opinion about the Sustainability 
Information  
Our key au dit matter  
Key audit matters are those matters that, in o ur professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the 
Sustainability Information. We have communicated the key audit matter to the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board. 
The key audit matter is not a comprehensive reflection of all ma tters discussed.  
This key audit matter was addressed in the context of our audit of the Sustainability Information as a whole and we do not 
provide a separate opinion on this matter.  
The sustainability indicator on Royal DSM's solutions labeled as Brighter  Living Solutions was determined to be a key audit 
matter as the assessment is inherently subject to assumptions and management judgement, whereas the determination of 
other important sustainability indicators on Safety, Health and Environment and Human Re sources require such 
judgement to a lesser extent.  
Brighter Living  Solution s 
Description  
Royal DSM reports on Brighter Living Solutions ("BLS”), which are products and services that have specific 
environmental or social benefits compared to mainstream reference solutions.  
The indicator is defined as net sales from BLS as a percentage of total net sales of Royal DSM. BLS was significant to our 
audit since we identified that it serves as a material indicator for Royal DSM to report on the environmental and social 
impact of its solutions and because the assessment of solutions to qualify as BLS is  inherently subject to assumptions 
and judgement  
Our response  
We obtained an understanding of the reporting process, the applicable definitions and reporting criteria and we have 
evaluated the design and implementation of relevant internal controls. We in quired Royal DSM’s staff members involved 
in the BLS assessment process to understand the application of these definitions and reporting criteria and we 
challenged the underlying evidence, such as the life cycle assessments and expert opinions for solution s classified as 
BLS and assessed the calculation of the BLS percentage. Finally, we assessed whether the reporting criteria, 
assumptions and definitions are adequately disclosed in the Integrated Annual Report and on Royal DSM’s website.  Other Information – Assurance report of the independent auditor 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  291 Our observation  
We consider that the definitions and criteria for BLS as described in Royal DSM's internally developed supplemental 
reporting criteria , as disclosed  in the  section  Non-financial reporting policy  included in the chapter ‘Reporting policies’ 
of the Integrated Annual Report  are appropriately applied and that the assumptions are adequately explained. We also 
consider the disclosure on BLS as being adequate.  
Limitations to the scope of our audit  
The Sustainability Information includes prospective information such as ambitions, strategy, plans, expectations and 
estimates. Inherently the actual future results are uncertain. We do not provide any  assurance on the assumptions and 
achievability of prospective information included in the aforementioned sections of the Integrated Annual Report.  
References to external sources or websites in the Integrated Annual Report  are not part of the Integrated An nual Report  
itself  nor the Sustainability Information  as audited by us. Therefore, we do not provide assurance on this information.  
Our opinion is not modified in respect to these matters.  
Responsibilities of the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board fo r the Sustainability 
Information  
The Managing Board of Royal DSM is responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Information in accordance with 
the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards and Royal DSM's internally developed supplemental reporting criteria as 
disclosed in the section Non-financial reporting policy  included in the chapter ‘Reporting policies’ of the Integrated Annual 
Report, includ ing the identification of stakeholders and the definition of material matters. The choices made by the 
Managing Board regarding the scope of the Sustainability Information and the reporting policy are summarized in the 
section 'Non -financial reporting poli cy' of the Integrated Annual Report.  
Furthermore, the Managing Board is responsible for such internal control as it determines is necessary to enable the 
preparation of the Sustainability Information that is free from material misstatements, whether due to  fraud or error.  
The Supervisory Board is, amongst other things, responsible for overseeing Royal DSM's sustainability reporting process.  
Our responsibilities for the audit of the Sustainability Information  
Our responsibility is to plan and perform our aud it engagement in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and 
appropriate audit evidence for our  opinion.  
Our audit has been performed  with a high, but not absolute, level of assurance, which means we may not have detected all 
material misstatements due to fraud or  error.  
Misstatements can arise from fraud or errors and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they c ould 
reasonably be expected to influence the decisions of users taken on the basis of the Sustainability Information. The 
materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified 
misstatements  on our opinion.  
We apply the ‘Nadere Voorschriften Kwaliteitssystemen’ (Regulations for Quality management systems) and accordingly 
maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance 
with e thical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.  
We have exercised professional judgement and have maintained professional skepticism throughout the audit, in 
accordance with the Dutch Standard 3810N, ethical re quirements and independence requirements.  Other Information – Assurance report of the independent auditor 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  292 Our audit included among others:  
-Performing an analysis of the external environment and obtaining an understanding of relevant social themes
and issues, and the characteristics of Royal DSM;
-Evaluating the appropri ateness of the reporting criteria used, their consistent application and related disclosures
in the Sustainability Information. This includes the evaluation of the results of the stakeholders' dialogue and the
reasonableness of estimates made by management  of Royal DSM;
-Obtaining an understanding of the systems and processes for collecting, reporting and consolidating the
Sustainability Information, including obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to our audit, but not
for the purpose of expressing an opi nion on the effectiveness of Royal DSM's internal control;
-Evaluating the procedures performed by Royal DSM’s Corporate Operational Audit department;
-Identifying and assessing the risks if the Sustainability Information is misleading or unbalanced, or cont ains
material misstatements, whether due to errors or fraud. Designing and performing further audit procedures
responsive to those risks, and obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for
our opinion. The risk that the Sustainability Information is misleading or unbalanced, or the risk of not detecting
a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from errors. Fraud may involve
collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations,  or the override of internal control. These further
procedures included among others:
-Inquiry with management and relevant staff of Royal DSM at corporate and component level responsible for
the sustainability strategy, policies and  results;
-Inquiry with r elevant staff of Royal DSM responsible for providing the information for, carrying out internal
control procedures on, and consolidating the data in the Sustainability  Information;
-Determining the nature and extent of the audit procedures at corporate and component level. For this, the
nature, size and/or risk profile of these components were decisive. Based thereon we selected the
components to visit. In view of restrictions on the movement of people across borders, and also within
significantly affected c ountries , due to the Covid -19 pandemic , we considered how to make  appropriate
changes to the audit plan . Due to the aforementioned restrictions, travelling  generally was not practicable in
the current environment and w e conduct ed our visits remotely for co mponents where travel was not
possible. The visits were aimed at, on a component level, validating source data and evaluating the design,
implementation and operation of controls and validation  procedures;
-Obtaining supporting information that the Sustaina bility Information reconciles with underlying records of
Royal  DSM;
-Evaluating relevant internal and external documentation, on a test basis, to determine the reliability of the
information in the Sustainability Information;  and
-Performing an analytical re view of the data and  trends.
-Evaluating the consistency of the Sustainability Information with the information in the Integrated Annual Report
which is not included in the scope of our  audit;
-Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the Sustainability Information; and
-Considering whether the Sustainability Information as a whole, including the disclosures, reflects the purpose of
the reporting criteria  used .
We communicate  with the Supervisory Board regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit 
and significant findings, including any significant findings in internal control that we identify during our audit.  
Amstelveen, 1 March 202 2 
KPMG Account ants N.V.  
P.J. Groenland – van d er Linden RA  Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  293 Special statutory rights  
DSM Preference Shares Foundation  
The DSM Preference Shares Foundation was established in 1989.  
By virtue of DSM ’s Articles of Association, 375,000,000 Cumulative Preference Shares B can be issued. The listing prospectus 
of 1989 stated that if, without the approval of the Managing Board and Supervisory Board, either a bid is made for the 
ordinary shares or a significant participation in ordinary shares is built up, or such an event is  likely to occur, then these 
Preference Shares B may be issued, which shall have the same voting rights as the ordinary shares.  
Under an agreement entered into in 1999, and subsequently amended, between the DSM Preference Shares Foundation 
and DSM, the Fou ndation has the right to acquire such Preference Shares (call option) to a maximum corresponding to 
100% of the capital issued in any form other than Preference Shares B, less one.  
The objective of the Foundation is to promote the interest of DSM, and the enterprise maintained by DSM and all parties 
connected therewith, whereby influences that would threaten the continuity, independence or identity, contrary to the 
aforementioned interests, are resisted to the maximum extent possible.  
The purpose of the agr eement with the Foundation is, among other things, for the Foundation to allow DSM the 
opportunity to determine its position, for example with regard to a possible bidder for DSM shares or a party or parties 
tempting to obtain (de facto) control, to examin e any plans in detail and, to the extent applicable, to look for (better) 
alternatives. Preference Shares B will not be outstanding longer than necessary. As soon as there are no longer any 
reasons for the Preference Shares B to remain outstanding, the Managing Board will convene a General Meeting of 
Shareholders and recommend the cancellation of the Preference Shares B that are still outstanding.  
The Foundation acquired no Preference Shares B in 20 21. 
The DSM Preference Shar es Foundation is an independent legal entity within the meaning of article 5:71, first paragraph, 
under c of the Dutch Act on Financial Supervision (Wet op het financieel toezicht).  
On 31 December 20 21, the Board of the Foundation was composed as follows:  
Gerard Kleisterlee, Chair 
Cees Maas, Deputy Chair 
Bas Kortmann  Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  294 Important dates  
Annual General Meeting of Shareholders  
The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders is to be held on 
Tuesda y, 10 May 20 22 at 14:00 hours CET.  
Important dates  
Publication of first -quarter 
resultsTuesday , 3 May 202 2 
Ex-dividend quotation  Thursday, 12  May 202 2 
Publication of second -quarter 
resultsTuesday, 2 August 202 2 
Publication of third -quarter 
resultsTuesday, 1 November 202 2 
 Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  295 DSM figures: five -year summary  
All figures are including discontinued operations unless stated otherwise, see also Note 3 Change in the scope of the 
consolidation . 
Balance sheet  
x € million  2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 
Assets  
Intangible assets  5,310  4,440  3,515  3,090  3,058  
Property, plant and equipment  3,957  3,775 4,040  3,511 3,313  
Deferred tax assets  203 240 217 248 281 
Share in associates and joint ventures  64 93 155 205 227 
Derivatives  48 61 27 14 16 
Other financial assets  302 317 265 263 475 
Non-current assets  9,884  8,926  8,219  7,331 7,370  
Inventories  2,297  1,879  2,019  1,993  1,848  
Current receivables  1,696  1,483  1,698  1,738 1,690  
Derivatives  30 48 19 21 41 
Current investments  489 43 688 1,277 954 
Cash and cash equivalents  1,561 871 800 1,281 899 
Assets held for sale  56 1,096  - - - 
Current assets  6,129  5,420  5,224  6,310  5,432  
Total assets  16,013  14,346  13,443  13,641  12,802  
. 
Equity and liabilities  
Shareholders' equity  9,318  7,399  7,731 7,782 6,962  
Non-controlling interests  79 88 104 33 103 
Equity  9,397  7,487  7,835  7,815  7,065  
Deferred tax liabilities  485 431 296 254 259 
Employee benefit liabilities  323 414 413 413 356 
Provisions  96 123 120 116 151 
Borrowings  2,989  3,484  2,464  2,272 2,551 
Derivatives  9 1 7 3 4 
Other non -current liabilities  283 163 145 197 188 
Non-current liabilities  4,185  4,616  3,445  3,255  3,509  
Employee benefits liabilities  21 42 43 46 39 
Provisions  68 61 48 37 53 
Borrowings  104 102 189 380 77 
Derivatives  40 13 18 51 20 
Current liabilities  2,188  1,771 1,865  2,057  2,039  
Liabilities held for sale  10 254 - - - 
Current liabilities  2,431  2,243  2,163  2,571 2,228  
Total equity and liabilities  16,013  14,346  13,443  13,641  12,802  DSM figures: 5 -year summary  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  296 Income statement  
x € million  2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 
Net sales  9,468  9,038  9,010  8,852¹  8,632  
Net sales from continuing operations  9,204  8,106  7,998  - - 
Adjusted EBITDA²  1,842  1,650  1,684  1,532¹  1,445  
EBITDA  2,370  1,476  1,586  1,754 1,348  
Adjusted operating profit (EBIT)²  1,167 1,011 1,075  1,055¹  957 
Operating profit (EBIT)  1,689  736 954 1,245  846 
Operating profit (EBIT) from continuing operations  1,021 662 872 - - 
Financial income and expense  (106)  (67) (92) (101) (104)
Income tax expense  (245)  (129) (152) (194) (115)
Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures  342 (32) 54 129 1,154 
Net profit for the year  1,680  508 764 1,079  1,781 
Net profit attributable to non -controlling interests  4 2 6 2 12 
Net profit available to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V.  1,676  506 758 1,077 1,769  
Dividend on Cumulative Preference Shares  (6) (7) (8) (8) (8)
Net profit available to holders of ordinary shares  1,670  499 750 1,069  1,761 
. 
Key figures and financial ratios  
Capital employed  11,012  10,557  9,311 8,181 7,766  
Capital expenditure:  
-Intangible assets and Property, plant and equipment 614 622 623 653 586 
-Acquisitions 757 1,579 585 50 264 
Disposals  1,941 46 44 335 1,546  
Depreciation, amortization and impairments  681 740 632 509 502 
Net debt  (1,014)  (2,577)  (1,144)  (113) (742)
Dividend  438 420 425 412 331 
. 
Workforce at 31 December, headcount  21,358  23,127  22,174  20,977  21,054  
Employee benefit costs (x € million)  1,810  1,848  1,811 1,753 1,768  
. 
Financial ratios²  
ROCE in %  11.0 10.3 12.0 13.3¹ 12.3 
Net sales / average capital employed  0.89 0.92 1.01 1.11¹ 1.11 
Current assets / current liabilities  2.52 2.42 2.42 2.45 2.44 
Equity / total assets  0.59 0.52 0.58 0.57 0.55 
Gearing (net debt / equity plus net debt)  0.10 0.26 0.13 0.01 0.10 
Adjusted EBIT / net sales in %  12.4 11.2 11.9 11.9¹ 11.1 
Net profit / average Shareholders' equity available to  20.5 6.8 10.0 24.7 28.0 
Adjusted EBITDA / financial income and expense  17.4 24.6 18.3 15.2¹ 13.9 
1 2018 adjusted for the temporary vitamin effect for comparison reasons of €415 million in sales, €290 million in adjusted EBITDA and 
€290 million in adjusted operating profit, including associated ratios.  
2 In presenting and discussing DSM ’s financial position, operating results and cash flows, DSM uses certain Alternative performance 
measures (A PMs) not defined by IFRS. These APMs are used because they are an important measure of DSM ’s business development 
and DSM ’s management performance. A full reconciliation of IFRS performance measures to the APMs is given  in Note 2 Alternative 
performance measures .DSM figures: 5 -year summary  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  297 Information about ordinary DSM shares  
per ordinary share in €  2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 
Adjusted net profit  5.03 4.43 4.64 5.84 3.92 
Net profit  9.68 2.91 4.27 6.10 10.07  
Operating cash flow  8.23 8.67 7.84 7.89 5.65 
. 
Dividend:  2.50 2.40 2.40 2.30 1.85 
-Interim dividend 0.80 0.80 0.77 0.77 0.58 
-Final dividend 1.70 1.60 1.63 1.53 1.27 
. 
Pay-out including dividend on Cumulative Preference Shares  50 55 52 40 48 
Dividend yield (dividend as % of average price of an ordinary  
DSM share)  2.7 1.9 2.3 2.7 2.8 
. 
Share prices on Euronext Amsterdam (closing price):  
-Highest price 199.40  148.55  117.90  92.98  81.66  
-Lowest price 136.55  87.52  69.54  68.98  57.20  
-At 31 December 198.00  140.80  116.10  71.44  79.67  
. 
Number of ordinary shares outstanding (x 1,000):  
-At 31 December 172,969  172,219  172,449  175,651  174,643  
-Average 172,648  171,536  175,731  175,323  174,795  
. 
Daily trading volumes on Euronext Amsterdam:  
-Average 331 518 635 732 676 
-Lowest 31 64 75 130 238 
-Highest 914 1,900  2,242  2,617 2,110 DSM figures: 5 -year summary  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  298 Sustainability tables  
All figures are including discontinued operations unless stated otherwise, see also the Non-financial reporting policy . 
People  
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 
Workforce¹ ²  21,358  23,127  22,174  20,977  21,054  
Female:male ratio  30:70  29:71 28:72  28:72  27:73 
. 
% by age category  
<26 years³  5 5 5 5 6 
26–35 years  27 26 26 25 26 
36–45 years  29 29 29 30 28 
46–55 years  24 25 25 26 25 
>55 15 15 15 14 15 
% under -represented nationalities  
Executives  31 30 31 31 - 
Management  43 42 44 43 - 
Other  57 58 59 59 - 
% female  
Executives  23 21 20 19 17 
Management  32 30 29 28 27 
Other  30 29 28 28 28 
% executive hires  
Under -represented nationalities  43 65 55 61 - 
Female  57 26 32 61 43 
% new hires by region  
Netherlands  10 11 11 13 11 
Rest of Europe  27 25 24 22 26 
North America  21 19 22 25 20 
China  14 15 18 16 16 
Rest of Asia –Pacific  12 11 12 9 11 
Rest of the world  16 19 13 15 15 
. 
Total number new hires (excluding acquisitions)  2,489  1,729 2,372 3,005  2,203  
Acquisitions  93 1,539  1,161 80 247 
. 
Outflow of employees  
Voluntary resignations  1,362  1,052  1,118 1,098  766 
Total outflow (excluding divestments)  2,439  2,336  2,352  2,868  1,943  
Divestments  1,912 - - 357 42 
Voluntary resignations (% total workforce)  6.7 4.8 5.4 5.3 4.1 
Total turnover (% total workforce)  11.9 10.6 11.2 13.9 10.2 
. 
Development training in hours per employee  8 6 8 6⁴ 
Net sales per employee (x €1,000)  445 414 421 429⁵ 420 
. 
Safety  
Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries (per 100 DSM employees 
and contractor employees)  0.22 0.24 0.28 0.33 0.36 
1 All data presented in the Sustainability Statements are subject to the Non-financial reporting policy. 
2 For the indexes based on age, nationalities, gender , inflow and outflow, the companies that are not integrated into the HR systems 
(approximately 5% of the total workforce) are not taken into account.  
3 We do not employ people younger than 15 under DSM contract. We require our suppliers to not use forced labor or child labor 
according to our Supplier Code of Conduct. 
4 In 2018, development training hours per employee were measured using a new standard with stricter definitions. Figures of previous 
years cannot be recalculated according to the new definitions, which means there are no relevant figures available for previous years.  
5 Net sales per employee is for total DSM (= continuing and discontinued operations). 
6 Excluding the temporary vitamin effect in 2018, see Profit in Integrated Annual Report 2019. DSM figures: 5 -year summary  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  299 Brighter Living Solutions  
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 
Brighter Living Solutions sales as % of net sales¹  64² 63 63 62³ 62 
1 All data presented in the Sustainability Statements are subject to the Non-financial reporting policy. 
2 For a small percentage of sales (less than 0.7% of sales) classified as BLS, the environmental impact is considered ‘best in class’ 
together with other solutions. 
3 Excluding the temporary vitamin effect in 2018, see Profit in Integrated Annual Report 2019. 
Planet 
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 
Energy and greenhouse gas¹  
Primary energy use (in PJ)  21.4 21.5 21.2 20.8 23.6 
Energy efficiency improvement (%, year -on-year)  6.0 5.7 2.3 1.4 0.7 
Greenhouse gas emissions scope 1 + 2, market -based  
(in CO₂  equivalents x million tons)  1.21 1.24 1.17 1.23 1.50 
Greenhouse gas emissions scope 1 + 2, location -based  
(in CO₂  equivalents x million tons)  1.46 1.43 1.38 1.38 1.57 
Total biogenic CO₂ emissions from combustion of biofuels 
(x million tons)  0.063  0.046²  - - - 
Electricity purchased from renewable resources (%)  72 60 50 41 21 
Total purchased renewable electricity (GWh)  961 748 632 446 229 
. 
Emissions to air  
Volatile Organic Compounds (x 1,000 tons)  4.1 3.23 2.7 4.9 6.6 
Nitrogen oxide (NO ₓ (x 1,000 tons)  0.4 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.7 
Sulfur dioxide (SO₂) (x 1,000 tons)  0.01 0.02 0.06 0.09 0.28 
. 
Discharges to water and landfill  
Chemical Oxygen Demand discharges to surface waters (x 1,000 tons)  2.0 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.5 
Waste recycled (in %)  86 85 86 83 84 
(Landfilling) Non -hazardous waste (x 1,000 tons)  17 17 15 18 16 
Total process -related waste (x 1,000 tons)  195 190³ 192 177 - 
. 
Water  
Water withdrawal for non -once -through cooling (x million m³)  26 24 23 22 23 
Total water withdrawal, including once -through cooling (x million m³)  106 108 111 114 114 
. 
Raw materials  
Renewable raw materials (in %)  15 15 15 14 15 
. 
Biodiversity  
Sites in or adjacent to protected areas (in %)  28 27 25⁴ - - 
. 
Fines (in €)  141,000⁵  26,000  115,100  23,500  128,400  
Non-monetary sanctions  5 18 2 6 4 
Environmental incidents  73 79 60 71 101 
Environmental complaints  39 51 58 53 35 
 1 All data presented in the Sustainability Statements are subject to the Non-financial reporting policy. 
 2 The total biogenic CO 2 emissions from combustion of biofuels is available as of 2020. 
 3 The 2020 figure has been restated. See Planet section (Other emissions to air and Waste) for details.  
 4 In 2019, Sites in or adjacent to protected areas was measured against a stricter definition. The figures of previous years could not be 
recalculated against the stricter definition, which means there are no relevant figures available for previous years. 
 5 The increase in environmental fines in 2021 is due to under-performance on energy reductions at one site in the Netherlands with an
addendum to the Dutch energy efficiency covenant (addendum Meerjarenafspraak Energie-efficiëntie ETS ondernemingen, 
MEE-convenant).  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  300  Explanation of some concepts and 
ratios  
General  
Biosciences1 
Biosciences  are any of the sciences that deal with living organisms . 
Brighter Living Solutions  
Brighter Living Solutions (BLS) is DSM’s program for the development of sustainable, innovative solutions with 
environmental and/or social benefits, creating shared value for o ur stakeholders. Brighter Living Solutions are products, 
services and technologies that, considered over their life cycle, offer a superior environmental impact (ECO+) and/or a 
superior social impact (People+) when compared to the mainstream alternative fo r the same application. The impact of 
Brighter Living Solutions can be realized at any stage of the product life cycle, from raw materials through the 
manufacturing process to potential re -use and end -of-life disposal.  
More information and definitions can be found on the company website . 
Eubiotics  
The general term ‘Eubiotics ’, is related to th e Greek term ‘Eubiosis ’ and relates to feed ingredients that support an optimal 
balance of microbiota in the gastrointestinal tract of livestock animals. They promote efficient gut performance so as to 
produce well -nourished animals that get the most from their feed, while at the same time sustaining their health and 
welfare and protecting the environment.  
Integrated Reporting <IR> Framework  – Value Creation model  
The Value Creation diagram is based on the International Integrated Reporting Council's Integrated Reporting <IR> 
framework  and gives an overview of how we create value for our stakeholders based on six capital inputs . 
Human capital  (People)  
We employ  skilled and t alented people from diverse backgrounds. We strive to provide employees with a safe and 
inspiring workplace as well as with the tools and training they need to be effective and to develop their abilities. We 
reward employees with competitive benefit packag es. 
Societal & relationship capita l (People)  
We engage with various stakeholders to ensure close alignment between our aims and societal needs. We generate value 
for stakeholders outside our direct value chains of employees, suppliers, customers and end -users; these include 
employees’ families, governments, local communities and civil society.  
Natural capital  (Planet)  
We recognize that the world is an interconnected system of resources. This represents a responsibility and a business 
opportunity. We aim to  improve the environmental impact of our supply chain, operations and products and services, 
while developing innovative solutions that deliver sustainability benefits to customers and beyond.  
Financial capital  (Profit)  
Providers of capital – shareholders and bondholders, banks and  the financial markets – supply funds that we use  in our 
business to create  value, driving growth and  delivering sustainable  returns.  
 
1 Source: The Free Dictionary   Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  301 Explanation of some concepts and ratios 
Intellectual capital (Profit) 
We manufacture and distribute high-quality products and services safely, efficiently and responsibly, a nd strive to develop 
valuable, collaborative and long-term relationships with customers and suppliers. We pursue open innovation, connecting 
and collaborating with partners and investing in start-ups. 
Manufactured capital (Profit) 
We have unique competences in Health, Nutrition & Bioscience a nd connect these to deliver innovative solutions that 
nourish, protect and improve performance. 
People 
Equal pay and gender pay gap 
Equal pay is a legal requirement for men and women to be paid the same for performing the same or similar work or work 
that has been rated as being of equal value (by job evaluation). The gender pay gap zooms in on the difference between 
what men typically earn overall in an organization compared to women, irrespective of their role or seniority. 
Frequency Index (FI) 
The Frequency Index is a way to measure safety performance. The number of accidents of a particular category per 100 
employees per year. DSM reports frequency indexes in the areas of Lost Workday Cases, Process Safety Incidents and 
Recordable injuries . 
Inclusion Index 
The Inclusion Index is a subset of items in the Employee Engagement (Pulse) Survey to specifically measure Inclusion. 
Inclusion is: “A working environment where all employees are a full and equal member of a team; where diverse 
perspectives are valued, and investment is made in their development; where people are respected a nd able to contribute 
as they are and not having to conform; where they can reach their potential, and where they can speak up without fear of 
retribution. ” 
Lives Reached 
Lives Reached is a measure of consumers already reached through consumer products of third parties containing DSM 
products and solutions. This measure addresses key end-markets representing approximately 25% of DSM’s total sales. 
These end-markets cover our business segments — Nutrition, Materials and Innovation Center.  
The number of Lives Reached is calculated for each market separately and then aggregated. As a business- to-business 
company, our products reach end-consumers via third parties, so calculations per market are performed at global level. 
Consumer touch points are assumed to be unrelated, a nd overlap is eliminated using statistical methods (De Morgan ’s Law 
and Probability Theory — Independence). The actual overlap may be larger or smaller than calculated based on this 
assumption. 
Key assumptions are used to perform these calculations and include DSM’s market share, total consumer markets, share 
of wallet and consumer consumption behavior. These assumptions are made based on external market data where 
available, supplemented with market and business intelligence insights. 
For more information on Lives Reached, see the company website . 
Living wage 
The remuneration received for a standar d working time by an employee in a particular place sufficient to afford a decent 
standard of living for the employee and his/her family. Elements of a decent standard of living include food, water, 
housing, education, healthcare, transport, clothing, and other essential needs, including provision for unexpected events. 
LWC rate DSM-own 
The Lost Workday Case (LWC) rate DSM-own is the number of lost workday cases per 100 DSM employees in the past 12 
months: LWC rate = 100 * (number of LWCs (past 12 months) / average effective manpower (past 12 months)). Explanation of some concepts and ratios  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  302  Occupational Health Case  
This refers to any abnormal condition or disorder requiring medical treatment — other than one resulting directly from an 
accident — caused by, or mainly caused by, repeated e xposure to work -related factors.  
PSI rate  
The PSI rate is the number of Process Safety Incidents per 100 DSM employees and contractor employees in the past 12 
months: PSI rate = 100 * (number of PSIs (past 12 months) / average effective manpower including contractor employees 
(past 12 months)).  
REC rate DSM -all 
The REC  rate DSM-all is the number of recordable injuries per 100 DSM employees and contractor employees in the past 12 
months: REC  rate = 100 * (number of RECs (past 12 months) / average effective m anpower including contractor employees 
(past 12 months)).  
Safety, Health and Environment (SHE)  
DSM’s policy is to maintain business activities and produce products that do not adversely affect safety or health, and that 
fit with the concept of sustainable development. The company does this by setting the following objectives: to provide an 
injury -free a nd incident -free workplace; to prevent all work -related disabilities or health problems; to control and 
minimize the risks associated with DSM ’s products for their whole life cycle and to choose production processes and 
products such that the use of raw ma terials and energy is minimized; to evaluate and improve DSM ’s practices, processes 
and products continuously in order to make them safe and acceptable to its employees, the customers, the public and the 
environment.  
United Nations Global Compact  
A strateg ic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten 
universally accepted principles  in the areas of human rights, labor, e nvironment and anti -corruption.  
United Nations ’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights  
On 10 December 1948, the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted and proclaimed the Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights. Following this historic act, the Assembl y called upon all Member countries to publicize the text of the 
Declaration and “to cause it to be disseminated, displayed, read and expounded principally in schools and other 
educational institutions, without distinction based on the political status of c ountries or territories. ” 
Planet  
Biofuel  
A fuel which is derived from renewable organic resources, as distinct from one which is derived from non -renewable 
resources such as crude oil and natural gas.  
Carbon footprint  
The total set of direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions expressed as CO 2eq. 
Carbon price  
The price that is paid to emit one ton CO 2eq into the atmosphere. DSM implements an internal carbon price of 
€100/t CO2eq. 
Circular economy  
Circular economy refers to an economy that is restorative and in which materials flows are of two types: biological 
nutrients, designed to re -enter the biosphere safely, and technical nutrients, which are designed to circulate at high 
quality without entering the biosphere throughout their entire life cycle.  
CO2 
Carbon dioxide, a gas that naturally occurs in the atmosphere. It is part of the natural carbon cycle through photosynthesis 
and respiration. It is also generated as a by -product of combustion. Carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas.  Explanation of some concepts and ratios  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  303  Chemical Oxygen  Demand (COD)  
COD is an indicator of the degree of pollution of waste water by organic substances.  
Eco-efficiency  
Eco-efficiency is a concept (created in 1992 by the WBCSD) that refers to the creation of more goods and services while 
using less resources a nd creating less waste and pollution throughout their entire life cycle. In the context of DSM ’s SHE 
targets, eco -efficiency relates specifically to the reduction of emissions and energy and water consumption, relative to the 
production volumes of DSM ’s plants.  
Energy  
Primary energy  is energy that has not yet been subjected to a human engineered conversion process. It is the energy 
contained in unprocessed fuels.  
Final (consumed) energy  is the energy that is consumed by end -users. The difference between pri mary energy and final 
consumed energy is caused by the conversion process between the two as well as any transmission losses.  
Essential for life  
Essential for life refers to substances  that have a proven beneficial nutritional  or pharmaceutical effect when  used at the 
officially recommended dose.  
Greenhouse gas emissions (GHG)  
DSM applies the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, which defines GHG  as “atmospheric gases that absorb and emit radiation within 
the thermal infrared range and that contribute to the greenho use effect and global climate change. ” We report  GHGs  
based on their global warming potential over 100 years in carbon dioxide equivalent (CO 2eq). 
Scope 1: Direct GHG emissions  
Direct GHG emissions occur from sources that are owned or controlled by the company (i.e., emissions from combustion in 
owned or controlled boilers, furnaces, vehicles, etc.).  
Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions  
Indirect GHG emissions relate to the generation of purchased energy (i.e., electricity, heat or cooling) consumed by the 
company. Purchased energy is defined as energy that is purchased or otherwise brought into the organizational boundary 
of the company. Scope 2 emissions physically occur at the facility where the energy is generated.  
Scope 3: Value chain emissions  
Scope 3 emi ssions are all indirect emissions (not included in scope 2) that occur in the value chain of the reporting 
company, including both upstream and downstream emissions.  
Location -based emissions  
Reflects the average GHG emissions intensity of grids on which e lectricity consumption occurs (using mostly national grid -
average emission factor data). Corresponding emission factor: in most cases, the country emission factor.  
Market -based emissions  
Reflects GHG emissions from electricity supplies that companies have  purposely chosen (or their lack of choice) and 
contracted. Corresponding emission factors:  
- Supplier specific emission factor (provided by the supplier)  
- Residual emission factor (country -based grid factor, corrected for allocated purchased electricity from  renewable 
resources)  
Greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) efficiency improvement  
The GHGE efficiency improvement is the amount of GHG emissions per unit of output (specific emissions) in a given year 
compared to the specific emissions in the prior year.  Explanation of some concepts and ratios  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  304  GRI 
The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) has developed Sustainability Reporting Guidelines that strive to increase the 
transparency and accountability of economic, environmental, and social performance. The GRI was established in 1997 in 
partnership with the UN Environment Programme. It is an international, multi -stakeholder and independent institution 
whose mission is to develop and disseminate globally applicable Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. These Guidelines are 
for voluntary use by organizations for re porting on the economic, environmental, and social dimensions of their activities, 
products and services.  
Guarantee of origin (GO)  
A guarantee of origin is defined in EU Directive 2009/28/EC as “ an electronic document which has the sole function of 
providi ng proof to a final customer that a given share or quantity of energy was produced from renewable sources as 
required by Article 3(6) of Directive 2003/54/EC .” The requirements of a GO are explained in Article 15 of the same 
Directive.  
Levelized Cost of En ergy (LCOE)  
LCOE is a figure used to compare the average cost of energy coming from different sources. It measures the cost of energy 
production over the lifetime of an asset like a photovoltaic panel.  
Loss of Primary Containment (LOPC)  
Loss of Primary Con tainment is an unplanned or uncontrolled release of material from the container that is in direct 
contact with the material.  
Mass -balance  
Mass -balance accounting is a well -known approach that has been  designed to trace the flow of materials through a 
complex value chain. The mass -balance approach provides a set of rules for how to allocate the bio -based and/or 
recycled content to different products to be able to claim and market the content as ‘bio’ -based or ‘recycled’ -based.  
Mycotoxins  
Mycotoxins are toxic compounds that are naturally produced by certain types of molds (fungi). Molds that can produce 
mycotoxins grow on numerous foodstuffs such as cereals, dried fruits, nuts and spices.  
Net-zero emiss ions 
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change states: “Net-zero emissions are achieved when anthropogenic emissions 
of greenhouse gases to the atmosphere are balanced by anthropogenic removals over a specified period. Where multiple 
greenhouse gases are involved, the quantification of net -zero emissions depends on the climate metric chosen to 
compare emissions of different gases (such as global warming potential, global temperature change potential, and others, 
as well as the chosen t ime horizon) ”. 
NO x 
Nitrogen oxides. These gases are released mainly during combustion.  
Renewable resource  
A natural resource which is replenished by natural processes at a rate comparable to, or faster than, its rate of 
consumption by humans or other users . The term covers perpetual resources such as solar radiation, tides, winds and 
hydroelectricity as well as fuels derived from organic matter (bio -based fuels).  
SO2 
Sulfur dioxide. This gas is formed during the combustion of fossil fuels.  
VOC 
Volatile orga nic compounds. The term covers a wide range of chemical compounds, such as organic solvents, some of 
which can be harmful.  Explanation of some concepts and ratios  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  305  Water use and water consumption  
Water use includes water used for ‘once -through  cooling ’ that is returned to the original water sourc e after use. Water 
consumption is the portion of water used that is not returned to the original water source after being withdrawn.  
Profit  
General  
In calculating financial profitability ratios, use is made of the average of the opening and closing values of balance sheet 
items in the year under review.  
The financial indicators per ordinary share are calculated on the basis of the average number of ordinary shares 
outstanding (average daily number). In calculating Shareholders ’ equity per ordinary share, ho wever, the number of shares 
outstanding at year -end is used.  
In calculating the figures per ordinary share and the ‘net profit as a percentage of average Shareholders ’ equity available 
to holders of ordinary shares ’, the amounts available to the holders of Cumulative Preference Shares are deducted from 
the profits and from Shareholders ’ equity.  
Adjusted net operating free cash flow  
The cash flow from operating activitie s, corrected for the cash flow of the APM adjustments  (see Note 2 to the 
Consolidated financial statements  on Alternative performance measures) , minus the cash flow of capital expenditures and 
drawing rights.  
Capital employed  
The total of the carrying amount of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, inventories, trade receivables 
and other receivables, less trade payables , other current liabilities , investment grants and customer funding . 
Capital e xpenditure  
This includes all investments in intangible assets and property, plant and equipment.  
Disposals  
This includes the disposal of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment as well as the disposal of participating 
interests and other securi ties. 
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA)  
EBITDA is the sum of operating profit plus depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA is the EBITDA adjusted for 
material items of profit or loss coming from acquisitions/dives tments, restructuring and other circumstances that 
management deem it necessary to adjust in order to provide clear  reporting on the development of the business.  
Earnings per ordinary share  
Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. minus dividend on Cumulative Preference Shares , divided 
by the average number of ordinary shares outstanding.  
High-growth economies  
High-growth economies relate to the following regions: Latin America, Middle East, Asia (excluding Japan) and Eastern 
Europe.  
Innovation sales  
Innovation sales are defined as sales from products and applications that have been introduced in the last five years.  
Net debt  
Net debt is the total of current and non -current borrowings less cash and cash equivalents, current inv estments and the 
net position of derivatives.  Explanation of some concepts and ratios  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  306  Operating working capital  
The total of inventories and trade receivables, less trade payables.  See also Working capital.  
Organic sales growth  
Organic sales growth is the total impact of volume and price/mix. Impact of acquisitions and divestments as well as 
currency impact are excluded.  
Return on capital employed (ROCE)  
Adjusted operating profit from continuing operations as a percentage of aver age capital employed.  
Total shareholder return (TSR)  
Total shareholder return is capital gain plus dividend paid.  
Working capital  
The total of inventories and current receivables, less current payables.  See also Operating working capital.  
 
   
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2021  307  List of abbreviations  
ADR American Depositary Receipts  IFRIC  International Financial Reporting Interpretation  
AFM The Dutch Authority for the Financial Markets   Committee  
APM Alternative performance measures  IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards  
CDP The new name for the Carbon Disclosure Project  IPCC Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change  
Cefic  Conseil Européen des Fédérations de l'Industrie  LCA Life Cycle Assessment  
 Chimique (European Chemical Industry Council)  LoR Letter of Representation  
CGU Cash Generating Unit  LTI Long -Term Incentive  
COA Corporate Operational Audit department  LWC Lost Workday Case  
COD Chemical Oxygen Demand  NCI Non-controlling interests  
CPLC  Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition  NGO Non-Governmental Organization  
CRA Corporate Risk Assessment  NPS Net Promoter Score  
CRP Corporate Research Program  OCI Other Comprehensive Income  
CSIRO  The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research  PDN Stichting Pensioenfonds DSM Nederland  
 Organisation  PPA Purchase Price Allocation; also Power Purchase  
CSR Corporate Social Responsibility   Agreement  
DHA Docosahexaenoic Acid  PPE Personal Protective Equipment; also Property, Plant  
DNP DSM Nutritional Products   and Equipment  
DSGC  Dutch Sustainable Growth Coalition  PSI Process Safety Incident  
DSP DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals  R&D Research & Development  
EBIT Earnings Before Interest and Taxes (Operating Profit)  REACH  Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Chemicals  
EBITDA  Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and   Restriction  of Chemicals  
 Amortization  RFM Resins & Functional Materials and associated businesses  
EEI Energy Efficiency Improvement  ROCE  Return on Capital Employed  
EFRAG  European Financial Reporting Advisory Group  SDG Sustainable Development Goal  
EPA Eicosapentaenoic Acid  SHE Safety, Health and Environment  
EPS Earnings per share  SHIBOR  Shanghai Interbank Offered Rate  
EVP Executive Vice President  STI Short -Term Incentive  
FIFO First in, first out  SUN Scaling Up Nutrition Movement  
FTE Full-time equivalent  TCFD  Taskforce on Climate -related Financial Disclosures  
FVTPL  Fair value through profit and loss  TSR Total Shareholder Return  
FVOCI  Fair value other comprehensive income  UHMWPE  Ultra -high-molecular -weight polyethylene  
GHG Greenhouse gas  UN United Nations  
GHGE  Greenhouse gas emissions  VOC Volatile Organic Compound  
GRI Global Reporting Initiative  WBCSD  World Business Council for Sustainable  
HMPE  High modulus polyethylene   Development  
IAS International Accounting Standards  WEF World Economic Forum  
ICF Internal Control Framework  WFP United Nations World Food Programme  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
 
 https://annualreport.dsm.com/ar2021/
©2022 Royal DSM All rights reserved
