Royal DSM Integrated 
Annual Report 2017Nutrition  
DSM Nutritional Products and DSM Food Specialties form our Nutrition business. 
DSM Nutritional Products provides solutions for animal feed, food and beverages, pharmaceuticals, infant nutrition, dietary supplements and personal care. DSM Food Specialties is a leading global supplier of specialty food enzymes, cultures, bio-preservation, hydrocolloids, savory, and sugar reduction solutions.
Materials
DSM’s Materials business includes DSM Engineering Plastics, DSM Dyneema, and DSM Resins & Functional Materials. DSM is a global player in specialty plastics for the electrical components and electronics, automotive, ﬂ  exible food packaging and consumer goods industries. The materials portfolio also includes Dyneema
®, 
the world’s strongest ﬁ  ber™, as well as resins for paints, industrial applications and optical ﬁ  ber coatings.
Innovation Center
DSM Innovation Center accelerates the innovation power and speed of our core businesses. It also has a business development role, focusing on areas outside the current scope of the business groups. The company has three Emerging Business Areas: DSM Biomedical, DSM Bio-based Products & Services and DSM Advanced Solar.
Partnerships
As part of DSM’s strategic transformation and move away from more commoditized and cyclical areas, we established joint ventures: DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals, Patheon and ChemicaInvest. In 2017, DSM divested Patheon for proceeds of about € 1.5 billion.DSM at a glanceClimate 
and energyMore than 200 million solar panels contain our solutions.
90% of cars 
sold today contain our materials.People Planet
Workforce 
(at year-end 2017, 
excluding aﬃ   liates)
Female/male ratio
stable versus 20161Employee engagement index, up 4% from 2016
Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries up from 0.33 in 2016
2
Sales of Brighter Living Solutions (ECO+ / People+), aiming for 65% by 2020 21,054
27/73Greenhouse-gas eﬃ   ciency 
improvement, cumulative versus 2008 (on track)Purchased electricity from renewable sources,up from 8% in 2016 26% 21% 75%
62%Innovation sales as % of total sales. Target of ~20% achieved.
Water consumption, up from 
22 in 2016 (in million m
3)21%
230.36
1 The companies that are not integrated into the 
 HR systems (approx. 10% of the total workforce) 
 are not taken into account.
2  Per 100 DSM employees and contractor employees.Brighter Living SolutionsFemale executives, up 2% from 201617%
Energy eﬃ   ciency improvement, cumulative verus 2015. Ambition of more than 10% in 2025.3%Capital expenditure 
(cash-based), up from € 475 in 2016 (in millions)ROCE versus 10.4% 
in 201612.3% € 546
Nutrition
As the #1 supplier of vitamins, and with a broad portfolio of food ingredients, we support good health at every age. Circular and bio-based economyFrom bio-based resins to fully recyclable carpets, DSM is ﬁ  nding solutions.
Our materials are in virtually every mobile device on the market.Net proﬁ  t (in millions), 
up from € 629 in 2016Cash provided by operating activities (in millions) versus € 1,018 in 2016
Net earnings per ordinary share, versus € 3.52 in 2016Proposed dividend per ordinary share
2 for 2017, 
up from € 1.75 in 2016
1  See page 167 for reconciliation.
2  Subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of  Shareholders.Proﬁ  t
Net sales (in millions) up 9% from € 7,920Adjusted EBITDA
1 
(in millions) versus € 1,262 in 2016Adjusted EBITDA growth versus 2016
ROCE growth (in bps)versus 2016€ 8,632 € 1,445  15%
+190
€ 10.07€ 996
€ 1,781 € 1.85DSM – Bright Science. Brighter Living.™
Our purpose is to create brighter lives for people today and generations to come. We use our unique competences in health,
nutrition and materials to create solutions that nourish, protect and improve performance.
DSM uses Bright Science to create Brighter Living for people today and generations to come. Based on a deep understanding of
key global trends that are driving societies, markets and customers, we create solutions to some of the world's biggest challenges,
thus adding to both our own and our customers' success.
We believe that DSM's continued success will be driven by our ability to create shared value for all stakeholders, now and in the
future. Our customers derive value from being able to offer end-users improved products and services; society and the planet
derive value from the impact of more sustainable, longer-lasting, safer, healthier and more nutritious alternatives; and, as a result,
DSM and its shareholders derive value from stronger growth and profitability. Finally, our employees feel engaged and motivated
both through the contribution they make to a better world and the success this creates for the company in which they work. More
information on 'How DSM creates value for its stakeholders' can be found on page 24.
DSM – Bright Science. Brighter Living.™
Royal DSM is a global science-based company active in health, nutrition and materials. By connecting its unique competences in life sciences and materials sciences,
DSM is driving economic prosperity, environmental progress and social advances to create sustainable value for all stakeholders simultaneously. DSM delivers innovative
solutions that nourish, protect and improve performance in global markets such as food and dietary supplements, personal care, feed, medical devices, automotive,
paints, electrical and electronics, life protection, alternative energy and bio-based materials. DSM and its associated companies deliver annual net sales of about
€ 
10 billion with approximately 25,000 employees. The company is listed on Euronext Amsterdam. More information can be found at www.dsm.com. 
© 2018 Royal DSM. All rights reserved.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  www.dsm.com6 Key data
7 Letter from the CEO
10 DSM and the Sustainable Development Goals
18 Report by the Managing Board
18 Strategy 2018
24 How DSM creates value for its stakeholders
26 Stakeholders
34 People
46 Planet
52 Profit
68 Review of business
68 Nutrition
82 Materials
90 Innovation Center
96 Corporate Activities
97 Partnerships
98 Financial and reporting policies
98 Financial policy
99 Reporting policy
101 Corporate governance and risk management
101 Introduction
104 Dutch Corporate Governance Code
104 Governance framework
108 DSM Code of Business Conduct
112 Risk management
117 Statements of the Managing Board118 Report by the Supervisory Board
125 Remuneration policy for the Managing Board
130 Supervisory Board and Managing Board Royal DSM
132 What still went wrong in 2017
134 Information about the DSM share
137 Sustainability statements
151 Consolidated financial statements
151 Summary of significant accounting policies
158 Consolidated financial statements
164 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
of Royal DSM
215 Parent company financial statements
217 Notes to the parent company financial statements
229 Other information
229 Independent auditor's report
234 Assurance report of the independent auditor
236 Special statutory rights
236 Important dates
237 DSM figures: five-year summary
240 Explanation of some concepts and ratios
243 List of abbreviations
Forward-looking statements
This document may contain forward-looking statements with respect to DSM's future (financial) performance and position. Such statements are based on current
expectations, estimates and projections of DSM and information currently available to the company. Examples of forward-looking statements include statements made
or implied about the company's strategy, estimates of sales growth, financial results, cost savings and future developments in its existing businesses as well as the
impact of future acquisitions, and the company's financial position. These statements can be management estimates based on information provided by specialized
agencies or advisors.
DSM cautions readers that such statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict and therefore it should be understood that many factors
can cause the company's actual performance and position to differ materially from these statements. These factors include, but are not limited to, macro-economic,
market and business trends and conditions, (low-cost) competition, legal claims, the company's ability to protect intellectual property, changes in legislation, changes
in exchange and interest rates, changes in tax rates, pension costs, raw material and energy prices, employee costs, the implementation of the company's strategy,
the company's ability to identify and complete acquisitions and to successfully integrate acquired companies, the company's ability to realize planned divestments,
savings, restructuring or benefits, the company's ability to identify, develop and successfully commercialize new products, markets or technologies, economic and/or
political changes and other developments in countries and markets in which DSM operates. Additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those
described in the forward-looking statements can be found in the 'Risk Management' chapter.
As a result, DSM's actual future performance, position and/or financial results may differ materially from the plans, goals and expectations set forth in such forward-
looking statements. DSM has no obligation to update the statements contained in this document, unless required by law. The English language version of this document
is leading.Table of contents
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  5 www.dsm.comKey data
Key data1
 2017220162
People   
Workforce at 31 December (headcount) 21,054 20,786
Female/male ratio327/73 27/73
Total employee benefits costs (in € million) 1,768 1,752
Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries (per 100 DSM employees and contractor employees) 0.36 0.33
Employee engagement — favorable score (in %) 75 71
   
Planet   
Energy use (in petajoules) 23.6 22.6
Energy Efficiency Improvement (in %, baseline 2015) 3 2
Greenhouse-gas emissions, market-based (in CO 2 equivalents x million tons) 1.5 1.4
Greenhouse-gas efficiency improvement (in %, baseline 2008) 26 23
Water consumption (x million m3) 23 22
   
Brighter Living Solutions (as % of net sales) 62 63
   
Profit (in € million)   
Net sales 8,632 7,920
Adjusted EBITDA, continuing operations41,445 1,262
EBITDA, continuing operations 1,348 1,174
Adjusted operating profit, continuing operations (EBIT)4957 791
Operating profit, continuing operations (EBIT) 846 685
Net profit 1,781 629
   
Cash provided by operating activities 996 1,018
Capital expenditure, cash based 546 475
Dividend for DSM shareholders (based on profit appropriation)5331 310
Net debt 742 2,070
Shareholders' equity 6,962 6,072
Total assets 12,802 12,958
Capital employed 7,766 7,889
Market capitalization at 31 December614,454 10,334
   
Per ordinary share in €   
Net earnings 10.07 3.52
Dividend 1.8551.75
   
Financial ratios (%)   
Sales to high growth economies / net sales 44 44
Innovation sales / net sales 21 22
Adjusted EBITDA margin416.7 15.9
Average working capital / annualized net sales 18.4 18.6
ROCE 12.3 10.4
Gearing (net debt / equity plus net debt) 9.5 25.1
Equity / total assets 55.2 47.5
Cash provided by operating activities / Adjusted EBITDA4 68.9 80.7
1For definitions see 'Explanation of some concepts and ratios' on page 240.
2Key data presented relate to total DSM (= continuing operations + discontinued operations), unless explicitly stated otherwise.
3For the indexes based on age, nationalities, gender, inflow and outflow, the companies that are not integrated into the HR systems (approx. 10% of the total workforce) are not
taken into account.
4In presenting and discussing DSM’s financial position, operating results and cash flows, DSM (similar to many other publicly listed companies) uses certain Alternative performance
measures (APMs) not defined by IFRS, and referred to as 'Adjusted'. These APMs are used because they are an important measure of DSM’s business development and DSM’s
management performance. A full reconciliation of IFRS performance measures to the APMs is given in the 'Alternative performance measures (APMs)' on page 165.
5Subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders.
6Source: Bloomberg.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  6 www.dsm.comDear reader,
In almost all aspects 2017 has been a very rewarding year for
our company.
Strategy and purpose
We are well ahead with the implementation of our three-year
strategy we set in 2015 for the period till end 2018. This
strategy, 'Driving Profitable Growth', followed the significant
transformation of DSM and adjustments to our portfolio of
business activities in the period 2005/2010 to 2015. In 2015,
we deliberately entered a next phase in which we decided to
hold further portfolio transformation and larger acquisitions
and/or divestments and to focus strongly on (organic) growth,
operational and financial performance, demonstrating the full
potential of our promising future-oriented portfolio previously
developed.
We are very pleased that in terms of growth and financial
performance we already achieved the targets set for 2018 in
2017 and completed the divestment of our non-core
participation in Patheon ahead of schedule and at an attractive
value. We also plan to monetize the two remaining non-core
participations (DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals and
ChemicaInvest).
With an integral stakeholder approach including our
customers, our employees, our shareholders, and society at
large, we have built strong businesses. Our growth platforms
are addressing the main important societal trends and have
especially a strong alignment with five of the 17 United Nations
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs also referred to as
global goals), which set out the strategy for the world. In this
way, we ensure that the growth and success of DSM benefits
all stakeholders.
It is rewarding to see that the portfolio we created over the
years has so much growth potential. To ensure this continues,
we further focused our innovation program on a smaller
number of bigger projects (such as Clean Cow, Green Ocean,
Niaga®, Solar), providing interesting opportunities from
2019/20 and onwards. In this Integrated Annual Report, you
will find information about these and other innovation projects.
Our focus on aligning our strategy and innovation programs
with global societal trends is increasingly recognized. In 2017
Fortune, the world-renowned business magazine, named
DSM among the top three companies that are "Changing the
World". This was both encouraging and humbling for our
company. Founded as a Dutch coal mining company more
than 115 years ago, transformed into a (bulk) chemical
company and then once more into a science-based global
leader in health, nutrition, and materials, we are now
recognized as an important contributor to improving the world.
This is important to all our employees worldwide, who areproudly engaged and fiercely passionate about making the
planet a better place for all and this is appreciated by our
thousands of customers who appreciate the value we provide
via sustainable solutions. Additionally, we are grateful to our
dozens of partners across the public and private sector,
together with whom we can make this happen.
At the heart of this lies our purpose and core value,
sustainability. Together with many stakeholders, especially
with our customers, DSM creates brighter lives for people
today and generations to come. We are working hard to make
a real difference in health & nutrition, climate & energy, and the
circular and bio-based economy. We understand the inter-
related nature of these three domains, and this is where our
business portfolio and competences align particularly well with
our sustainability focus. Not only does our science and
innovation deliver value for society, it delivers value for our
customers and our shareholders at the same time. That is why
we are proud of our Triple P approach — creating value on
three dimensions simultaneously: People, Planet and Profit.
We see that this approach has also led to increased employee
motivation, engagement, and pride, as well as a better position
in the labor market.
Delivery and growth
Our performance in 2017 yet again exceeded expectations.
As in 2016, we over delivered on our two main financial targets,
achieving 15% annual Adjusted EBITDA growth — versus a
high single-digit percentage target — and achieving a 190
basis point improvement in Return On Capital Employed
(ROCE) — versus a high double-digit basis point target. Our
total sales increased by 9% to € 8.6 billion, mainly through an
organic growth of 9%, ahead of plan and outpacing market
growth in all our businesses.
We achieved an Adjusted EBITDA of € 
1,445 million (versus
€ 1,262 million in 2016) and a total net profit of € 1,781 million,
the latter enhanced by the divestment of Patheon, which
created a gain on disposal of € 1,250 million in 2017 and over
€ 2 billion in total proceeds over the years (€ 1.5 billion in
2017). 
Both our Nutrition and Materials businesses contributed to this
successful step-up in financial performance, and the new
operating model that was introduced in 2015, enabled cost
and profit improvements that supported our results, achieving
total savings with a run rate of about € 195 million at the end
of 2017 compared to the 2014 baseline.
As a global company, we are well-represented in all major
growth areas in the world: 44% of our total sales are from
emerging economies, in line with our stated balanced
ambition. At the same time, we continue to build our innovation
pipeline with specific projects that resulted in 21% of our sales
coming from (recent) innovations, above our target of 20%.Letter from the CEO
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  7 www.dsm.comWe feature many examples of growth, delivery and innovation
areas throughout this report, as well as more information on
the full financial performance in 'Profit' on page 52.
Sustainability and business
Sustainability is fully integrated in our strategy, business and
operations, and we ensure that our solutions are better for
people and/or planet. In 2017, 62% of our current sales came
from products which have a better environmental (ECO+) and/
or social (People+) impact compared to mainstream solutions
— our Brighter Living Solutions (see 'Planet' on page 46 and
'Review of business' on page 68 of this Report). Our target
is 65% of sales by 2020. Meanwhile, our innovation pipeline is
very strong, with over 80% classified as Brighter Living
Solutions and therefore we remain firmly on track. The growth
and margins of these products are above average, confirming
that the market embraces these sustainable solutions, proof
that societal gain and business gain can go hand in hand.
At the same time, we've succeeded in taking a more
sustainable approach to our own operations. For example, we
use an internal carbon price of € 
50 per ton of CO 2 to help
guide our investments and operational decisions, and we are
making progress toward our target of 50% purchased
electricity from renewable sources by 2025. In 2017, we
reached already 21% by among others several agreements
with wind parks in Europe and in the US and the installation of
solar panels at our sites are supporting this progress.
Not only do we reduce our own environmental footprint and
enable our customers to do the same with our innovative
solutions, we also advocate on the issues that define our
times. DSM continues to be a positive voice, shaping
discussions with organizations like the CEO Climate
Ambassadors of the World Economic Forum, the Carbon
Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC, convened by the World
Bank, supported by the UN, IMF and OECD) and We Mean
Business.
Beyond climate and energy, DSM also contributes to the
circular and bio-based economy. Prime examples are
improvements to solar energy yields via our proprietary solar
panel coatings, our bio-based solutions and fuels and the
circular, fully recyclable carpets based on DSM-Niaga
technology.
Improved nutrition is another focus area for DSM. We work
hard to help reduce levels of sugar, salt and fat in food and
make it healthier. In 2017, we also took another step in
providing access to nutritious food for malnourished mothers
and children while stimulating the local economy in Africa. After
ten years of our successful partnership with the UN World
Food Programme, supporting over 30 million people
worldwide with essential nutrients, we expanded our
approach with our Africa Improved Foods (AIF) project, whichopened its first factory in Rwanda. The factory sources corn
and soy from almost 10,000 mostly female smallholders and
produces locally nutritious, healthy food for the local market.
The Government of Rwanda has entered into a joint venture
with AIF to improve the nutritional status of its population and
make Rwanda (and other African countries later on) more self-
supporting. We work on expanding this model further in the
region together with, among others, the United Nations
Scaling Up Nutrition (SUN) movement and other partners.
Many of the above-mentioned achievements are being
recognized externally as well, resulting in leading positions in,
among others, CDP, the non-profit global environmental
disclosure platform, the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI)
and Sustainalytics.
Science and innovation
At DSM, we believe science can change the world. In fact, we
are the living proof. As a science-based company, one of the
pillars supporting our success is our ability to develop new,
more sustainable solutions. As well as our own innovations,
we salute scientists, the unsung heroes who work tirelessly,
often anonymously, on breakthroughs that make life better for
billions of people. This year, DSM and partners invited
researchers, changemakers and innovators from all over the
world to take center stage in our Bright Minds Challenge, a
competition for projects that can help mitigate climate change
by accelerating the transition to 100% renewable energy.
Professor Ernesto Calvo from Argentina accepted the grand
prize during the final in Amsterdam. Recognizing that lithium-
ion batteries are critical for renewable energy storage, he led
a team of researchers who designed a quicker, cleaner lithium
extraction technique that is powered by the sun. Now, with
DSM's support, his team is scaling up their efforts in Latin
America.
Further evidence of our commitment to science, technology
and innovation was the opening of DSM's new state-of-the-
art biotechnology center in Delft (Netherlands). Building on a
solid history of fermentation and biotechnology innovation in
the region, our scientists in Delft create solutions for societal
challenges including the need to provide all people with
healthy, nutritious food. Early in 2017, we opened a new state
of the art Materials Science Center in Sittard-Geleen
(Netherlands).
Our people and leadership
All this happens because of the brain power, will power and
passion of our employees, who say with pride that working at
DSM is about Doing Something Meaningful. Our people feel
more inspired and committed than ever. The results of our
annual employee engagement index jumped from 71% to an
exciting level of 75% in 2017, despite the significant
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  8 www.dsm.comoperational transformation and focus on operational efficiency
across the company these past two years.
To support our growth ambitions, we trained all our executives
in our Lead & Grow program on how to navigate this Volatile,
Uncertain, Complex and Ambiguous (VUCA) world, on how to
deal with dilemmas and find creative solutions to everyday
problems, while working even more closely together with our
customers.
We also continued to focus on improving on inclusion and
diversity. Today, more nationalities are represented across
DSM and there is a better gender balance in management and
executive positions. 
At leadership level, the composition of our Supervisory Board
also reflects our desire to be more gender balanced,
international, inclusive and diverse. Special thanks to the
Supervisory Board for their support in 2017, their advice and
challenges, supporting us to set the correct path to deliver on
our strategic, financial and societal promises. We thank Pierre
Hochuli very much for his great contribution over so many
years and we welcome our new members, Frits van
Paasschen and John Ramsay.
Last year, we also had to say a final farewell to our friend and
former colleague, Peter Elverding. Peter devoted more than
20 years of his illustrious career to DSM, and led our company
as CEO and Chairman of the Managing Board from 1999 to
2007. His vision, leadership, warmth, and humility, as well as
appreciation of the importance of a long-term view were
instrumental in the transformation DSM underwent in those
years, thus preparing the ground for DSM to become the
company it is today.
We worked on further improving our safety performance in
2017 and thousands of people dedicated their time and talent
to make DSM a safer place to work, every single day.
However, it has not yet always been as successful as we want
it to be. We report with deep sadness, that in September one
of our contractors, Steven Gonsalves lost his life in a tragic
incident at our site in Augusta (Georgia, USA). Two other
workers were also injured. We very much realize we can never
let our attention slip and must further improve safety at DSM.
Even though there are fewer incidents today than there were
10 years ago, there is no question — we need to give even
more attention to our own safety and that of our colleagues,
and we will. For more on this, please see 'What still went wrong
in 2017' on page 132.
Looking to the future
As we look to 2018 and beyond, one thing that's certain is
change. Just as Darwin taught us, adaption is a prerequisite
for success. We have to shape our own destiny by future-
proofing our company and businesses. We must continue toimprove the performance and sustainability of our company
and help others do the same as nobody can be successful or
even claim to be successful in a world that fails. Our next step
will be to update our strategy so that we can continue to create
brighter lives for people today and generations to come. And
not just for a privileged few, but for all. In the meantime, thank
you to everyone who contributed to a great year. I am thankful
for the loyalty of our customers, the trust of our shareholders
and the passion of our people. I also thank my colleagues of
the Executive Committee and we all look forward to building
on this momentum in 2018.
Feike Sijbesma
CEO/Chairman Managing Board Royal DSM
Letter from the CEO
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  9 www.dsm.comDSM and the 
Sustainable Development Goals
Throughout this report, we describe our contributions to 
each of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals or SDGs. We highlight how our health, nutrition and materials solutions are aligned with speciﬁc goals and how our activities with customers, partners and other stakeholders contribute in a positive way. 
All 17 goals are important. While we engage on every single 
one, we especially address ﬁve :+Gs across our three growth areas: nutrition, climate and energy, and circular and bio-based economy.Nutrition  
• SDG 2: Zero hunger  • SDG 3: Good health and well-being Today millions of people go hungry, nearly two billion are malnourished and yet billions more are overweight or obese. At DSM, we are helping people get the nutritious food they need to live healthier lives. At the same time, we recognize that food production has an impact on the environment so we develop solutions that are better for the planet.
Climate and energy 
 :+G ! (ќordable and clean energy • SDG 13: Climate action Human activity is causing climate change. The world must reduce greenhouse-gas emissions and accelerate the transition to a low-carbon economy. At DSM we reduce our own emissions, enable the low-carbon economy through our products and services, and advocate for climate action. 
Circular and bio-based economy 
• SDG 12: Responsible consumption and productionThe world’s resources are limited. Instead of continuing to make waste, people must reuse, repair, repurpose and recover resources. At DSM, we are innovating to support a more circular, bio-based economy.   
;he ﬁnal goal, :+G 1! Partnerships for the Goals, is 
equally important to us. DSM works together with partners across the public and private sectors. Our partners include <5 agencies like the World Food Programme (WFP) and UNICEF. We also work with the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, non-governmental organizations and other companies. 
To learn more about DSM and the SDGs, keep reading and 
look for the colorful icons throughout this Report. For more about our partnerships see ’Stakeholders’ on page 26. “ The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals set out the global strategy for the world in order to tackle some of the most challenging issues. At DSM we proudly take a leading role in advancing the SDGs as part of our business strategy.
”
 Feike Sijbesma, CEO/Chairman Managing Board
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  10 www.dsm.comDSM’s engagement:  • = Minor    •• = Moderate    ••• = MajorThrough our partnerships, we contribute 
to agricultural learning and economic development in developing countries. ••
Our initiatives in the Nutrition Improvement Program, (frica Improved Foods and many of our partnerships lead our approach in improving nutrition. •••
Our product oќerings in 5utrition, 4aterials 
and Biomedical address health issues. The safety and health of our employees and contractors is a high priority. •••
We provide learning and development opportunities to our employees. Through WFP , we contribute to agricultural learning. •
We aspire to increase female representation in the management of DSM. We collaborate with partners to foster female participation. ••
Water is managed using a local, risk-based approach with mitigating actions as required. •
Our product portfolio includes materials for 
biofuels and renewable energy production. We are increasing the use of renewable energy within the company. •••
Africa Improved Foods demonstrates our role in developing countries. We contribute to the economic growth of the countries in which we operate. ••
Innovation is essential to DSM’s business success and our impact on society. Our R&D has a global footprint.  ••Our Inclusion & Diversity policy addresses inequalities in our value chain. We foster inclusive employment in local communities through local programs. ••
We support philanthropic initiatives that 
contribute to local communities. •
We collaborate with external partners on 
sustainable sourcing. Our portfolio oќers products using bio-based feedstocks, addressing food waste and demonstrating circular concepts. •••
We collaborate with like-minded 
organizations on climate action and carbon pricing. We address impact on climate in our own operations and our product oќerings. 
Our products contribute to aquaculture 
through netting and animal feeds. Our partnership with The Ocean Cleanup helps to address marine waste. ••
We monitor areas of high biodiversity 
near our sites. We see sustainable biomass as an alternative raw material to petrochemicals. •
Our Code of Business Conduct is core 
to our approach to ethical business and good corporate governance. •
We partner with like-minded organizations 
to amplify our contributions to all the goals. These partnerships are described throughout this Report. •••DSM and the Sustainable Development Goals
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  11 www.dsm.comBright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  12 www.dsm.com
DSM and the Sustainable Development Goals
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  13 www.dsm.com
Good nutrition is a human right. That’s why 
DSM is working together with stakeholders like the Government of Rwanda in a partnership called Africa Improved Foods ((IF). In 201, (IF opened a factory that sources maize and soy from local smallholder farmers and makes fortiﬁed porridge. Selling under the brands NootriMama
TM and 
NootriTotoTM, the porridge will help people 
– especially mothers and children – get the nutrients they need. It also creates steady income for thousands of people, including many women, in the region. @NootriAfricaHappy 
5ational:elﬁe+ay #NootriMamaKigali, Rwanda
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  14 www.dsm.com
Oceans are critical for sustaining life. They 
regulate the climate and oxygen in our atmosphere, and are a source of food. DSM is a proud partner of The Ocean Cleanup, a non-proﬁt organiaation developing advanced technologies to rid the world’s oceans of ﬂoating plastic. In 2017, The Ocean Cleanup performed oќ-shore prototype tests to prepare for the launch of a ﬁrst full-scale cleaning system from the US west coast in 2018. DSM supplies Dyneema
®, the world’s strongest ﬁber™ · used 
in multiple applications of this ambitious program.@TheOceanCleanup  This is the stomach content of a single sea turtle found last year. Microplastics will increase dozens of times unless we clean it up.
 DSM and the Sustainable Development Goals
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  15 www.dsm.com
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  16 www.dsm.com
DSM and the Sustainable Development Goals
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  17 www.dsm.com
Partnerships are a way of working at +:4. 
Perhaps nowhere is this more apparent than at the World Economic Forum (WEF) where DSM CEO Feike Sijbesma advocates for partnerships to achieve the SDGs. In 2017, he and other DSM executives met with world leaders, signed agreements and spoke on key issues at WEF events around the world. In addition, through his role as Co-Chair of the High Level Assembly of the Carbon Pricing 3eadership Coalition convened by the World Bank, he urges business and government to support carbon pricing.
 @Davos
How can we strengthen public-private cooperation to accelerate development& 
weﬁmpactStrategy 2018
Driving profitable growth
Demonstrating the full potential of our 
promising future-oriented portfolio, which we have developed.
Our strategy 
addresses what we see happening in the world – issues around health and wellness, climate and energy, circular and bio-based economy, and global shifts and digital transformation. 
We consider People, Planet, Profit in all that we do
ROCE 
actual 2017 + 190 bps up from 2016Organic sales growth up from 2016Positive employeeengagement  
index +4% up fr
om 201675% 12.3%
Sales of Brighter Living Solutions (ECO+ / People+), working toward 65% by 2020 62% +9%
Adjusted EBITDA actual 2017 (in millions) +15% up from 2016€ 1,445All SDGs are important but we
especially address the following: Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  18 www.dsm.comAt DSM our mission is to create brighter lives for people today
and generations to come. To do this in a sustainable way, we
have to consider what we call the Triple P — People, Planet
and Profit — in all that we do. This approach is clearly defined
in the way DSM creates value for all of our stakeholders and it
forms the basis of our strategy reviews.
DSM has been transformed into a truly global company that
provides innovative, sustainable solutions in health, nutrition
and materials. After a period of significant portfolio changes,
in late 2015 DSM launched Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable
Growth focused on capturing the full potential of the business
portfolio that has been created and translating this into
improved financial results. In the period 2016-2018, our aim is
to step up our financial performance while pursuing our
ambitions in the area of sustainability and expanding our
positive impact on the world around us.
A strategy designed around megatrends
People, economies and markets worldwide are being
impacted by a number of fundamental societal trends. These
megatrends — predominantly driven by demographic
changes as populations grow (including a shift to the faster-
growing countries in Asia and Africa) and as people become
older, more urbanized, wealthier and more connected — are
exerting increased pressure on resources and the food chain.
In addition, they are leading to new patterns of consumption
and impacting the environment. Moreover, there is increased
attention on health and well-being. These trends present clear
challenges, but also offer opportunities to profitably grow our
businesses by supporting customers in developing science-
based, sustainable solutions to meet current and future needs.
DSM's strategy and solutions offering addresses three crucial
megatrends.
Global shifts and digital transformation
Demographic shifts and technology are driving change
worldwide. The population is growing, people are living longer
and living standards are increasing. Global populations are
generally older, wealthier, increasingly living in urban areas and
increasingly connected through technology and global supply
chains. At the same time, the gap between rich and poor is
becoming wider. These trends put pressure on resources and
impact the environment. New technology has implications as
well. The massive amount of data that people generate, and
that is available to companies, academics, governments, and
other parties, is changing daily life — and business — in
unprecedented ways.
Climate and energy
People around the world are working together to reduce
greenhouse-gas emissions and transition to a low-carbon
economy. Almost 200 nations signed the Paris Agreement in2015, acknowledging that climate change is linked to human
activity and that stopping it should be an international priority.
The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals also help
drive climate action and the shift to a more circular and bio-
based economy. The circular economy is a system in which
products are renewable by design so that people can use
them again and again instead of using things once and then
throwing them away. The bio-based economy means using
renewable resources like the sun, wind and biomass in a
sustainable way rather than relying on finite fossil fuels like oil.
For DSM, the circular and bio-based economy concepts are
mutually reinforcing.
Health and wellness
Billions of people are living longer and more active lives thanks
to better medicine, healthcare and nutrition. Still, health and
wellness remain concerns, especially as people grow older.
Nutrition also presents a challenge. While two billion people
suffer from micronutrient and protein deficiencies, three billion
are overweight or obese. Sometimes people suffer from
micronutrient deficiencies and obesity at the same time. As a
result, many people are not reaching their full potential. From
stunted growth to non-communicable diseases like heart
disease and type-2 diabetes, there is an opportunity for
companies like DSM to support better nutrition, health and
wellness, as well as more sustainable food systems.
The DSM Managing Board (from left to right): Dimitri de Vreeze,
Geraldine Matchett (CFO) and Feike Sijbesma (CEO/Chairman).Report by the Managing Board — Strategy 2018
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  19 www.dsm.comWith our strategy, we pursue opportunities derived from these megatrends across our entire portfolio and on a global scale. We
continue to work together with customers and other partners to create sustainable, science-based solutions that help tackle some
of the world's biggest challenges.
Stepping up DSM's financial performance and sustainability aspirations
Building on these trends, and combined with disciplined focus on performance, we established and implemented our three-year
strategic plan for the period 2016-2018 called Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable Growth with two headline financial targets: high
single-digit percentage annual Adjusted EBITDA growth and high double-digit basis point annual ROCE growth. 
Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable  Growth
Two headline
f
inancial targets
Clear actions identified to 
achieve targets
Additional items 
underpinning strategyHigh single-digit percentage 
a
nnual Adjusted EBITDA 
growth
Businesses aim to outpace 
market growth in all segments
Stepping up sustainability 
aspirationsHigh double-digit basis point 
annual ROCE growth
€ 250-300m cost reduction and 
efficiency improvement
programs
Global organizational and 
operational adjustmentsConsistent improvements in 
capital efficiency
Extract value from Pharma & 
Bulk Chemicals joint ventures
To deliver on these targets, we defined clear actions, including
outpacing market growth, cost reduction and efficiency
improvements, and making a continuous push for consistent
improvements in capital efficiency.
We initiated extensive cost-reduction and improvement
programs to deliver € 
250-300 million in cost savings versus
the 2014 baseline. All of these well-identified programs
progressed as planned and are on track to deliver the targeted
benefits.
Timing of cumulative costs savings
(x € mi
llion)
Versus 2014 baseline.11
2015
2016 2017 2018300
200
~25~110
100
0~195~270-280Realized
Forecast
In support of our targets, we also adjusted our global
organizational and operating model to create a more agile,
commercially focused and cost-efficient company. During this
strategic period we refrain from large acquisitions and are
instead focusing on delivering value from the current portfolio
and extracting value from the monetization of our joint venture
partnerships.Another key part of the strategy, besides the financial
outcome, is to continue to strengthen our commitment to
sustainability by:
-
reducing our own environmental footprint;
-enabling other stakeholders, especially our customers, to be
more sustainable; and
- advocating on key areas of competence by actively raising
awareness and sharing knowledge.
By doing so, we help achieve progress on the Sustainable
Development Goals, especially SDG 2 (Zero Hunger), SDG 3
(Good Health and Well-being), SDG 7 (Affordable and Clean
Energy), SDG 12 (Responsible Production and Consumption)
and SDG 13 (Climate Action). See 'DSM and the Sustainable
Development Goals' on page 10 and throughout this Report.
Of course, our people are the ones who have made and
continue to make the strategy work. DSM's People Strategy
2018 was at the heart of our success in recent years. We
continue to hire and develop thousands of talented people
who are encouraged to challenge the status quo and help us
grow.
While driving profitable growth throughout the company via
the execution of our Strategy 2018, we continually monitor,
assess and strive to respond appropriately to societal,
macroeconomic and segment-specific developments as they
occur. Our approach to managing both opportunities and risks
in DSM's businesses is embedded in our operating and
governance model and risk management approach. For more
information see 'Corporate governance' on page 101 and
'Risk management' on page 112.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  20 www.dsm.comx“ Sustainability is what our
business is all about. This is
what we do. The world is
looking for sustainable
solutions and that is why we
are growing.  ”
Philip Eykerman, DSM Executive Committee
Progress in 2017
Total DSM financial results
DSM delivered excellent financial results in 2017. Adjusted
EBITDA grew by 15% to € 1,445 million, far ahead of the high
single-digit growth target we originally set with Strategy 2018.
Overall Adjusted EBITDA margin (Adjusted operating profit
before depreciation and amortization as a percentage of net
sales) was 16.7%, an increase of 80 basis points versus the
15.9% of 2016. In the first two years of Strategy 2018, we have
increased our Adjusted EBITDA by € 
370 million or 34%.
Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) was also well ahead of
target, up 190 basis points to 12.3% in 2017 versus 10.4% in
2016. Since we kicked off our successful Strategy 2018,
ROCE is up 470 basis points versus the end of 2015.
DSM reported net sales of € 8,632 million, an increase of 9%
versus 2016. Group organic sales growth was 9%, mainly
driven by strong 7% volume growth, clearly above market. All
businesses, both in Nutrition and Materials, contributed well
to this growth. Prices were overall slightly up, partly offset by
somewhat weaker currencies.
Financial targets 2016-2018 Realization
 2017 2016
   
High single-digit percentage
annual adjusted EBITDA growth 15% 17%
High double-digit bps annual
ROCE growth 190 bps 280 bps
For all detailed information on DSM's group financial results in
2017, see 'Profit' on page 52.
Nutrition financial results
Our Nutrition business performed very strongly, with 8%
organic growth in 2017, clearly outpacing market growth.
Volumes were up 7% and prices were up 1%. The successfulimplementation of the growth initiatives continued to drive
organic growth, both in Animal Nutrition & Health and Human
Nutrition & Health.
Animal Nutrition & Health delivered an exceptionally strong
11% organic growth in 2017, of which 9% was volume growth,
albeit against an easy comparative base. Our animal nutrition
business continued to benefit from the ability to address a
wide range of species, as well as from a diversified
geographical presence covering all major growth areas. The
business also continued to benefit from a strong forward-
integrated premix position. Markets in animal feed were
favorable and supportive in 2017. Prices were on average
slightly above 2016.
Human Nutrition & Health continued to deliver good volume
growth, despite ongoing softness in some of its end markets.
The 7% organic sales growth in 2017 was driven mainly by 6%
higher volumes, outperforming its markets. Food & beverage
markets are being addressed successfully through tailored
premixes. Sales excellence programs as well as the
introduction of new solutions resulted in above-market growth
for both multi-vitamins and omega-3 solutions. The i-Health
business continued its double-digit growth while early life
nutrition remained a strong performer.
Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients as well as Food Specialties
continued to perform well in 2017, although growth in Food
Specialties was hampered by some capacity constraints in
enzymes.
Adjusted EBITDA for Nutrition was € 
1,053 million, up 13%
driven by the successful execution of our sales growth
programs in combination with the impact of the cost-saving
and efficiency improvement programs. This increase in
Adjusted EBITDA equals the very strong growth in 2016, when
Adjusted EBITDA also grew by 13%. Adjusted EBITDA margin
further improved in 2017 and was 18.9%, compared with
18.0% in 2016, well within our aspired range of 18-20%. See
page 68 for more on the Nutrition cluster's performance.
Materials financial results
Our Materials cluster also had strong financial performance in
2017. Volumes were up 7% and prices were up 6%, fully
reflecting higher input costs. Strong growth in specialties was
the main driver behind above-market growth. All three
businesses in Materials — Engineering Plastics, Resins &
Functional Materials and Dyneema — contributed to the 13%
organic growth in 2017 by each posting double-digit organic
growth.
Total Adjusted EBITDA of our Materials cluster increased by
12% in 2017, driven by strong volume growth in higher-margin
specialties. The Adjusted EBITDA margin of Materials was
stable at 17.3%, as pricing and group-wide cost-saving and
efficiency improvement programs offset higher input costs andReport by the Managing Board — Strategy 2018
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  21 www.dsm.comnegative currency effects. This robust financial performance
demonstrates the improvements achieved in the quality of
returns in Materials over the years. For more on the Materials
cluster, see page 82.
Innovation results
The DSM Innovation Center has multiple functions within
DSM, including accelerating the innovation power of our core
businesses and extracting value from our Emerging Business
Areas (EBAs). At DSM, we want at least 20% of our sales to
come from innovation sales, which we define as sales from
products and solutions introduced in the last five years.
In 2017, we made good progress with our focused innovation
programs. With 21% innovation sales we continued to deliver
on our ambition. The DSM Innovation Center reported € 
9
million in Adjusted EBITDA in 2017, compared to € 1 million in
2016. Our three EBAs — DSM Biomedical, DSM Bio-based
Products & Services and DSM Advanced Solar — continued
to progress well, delivering € 17 million in Adjusted EBITDA in
2017 versus € 16 million in 2016. For more information on
innovation and R&D, see 'Innovation Center' on page 90.
 2017 2016
   
Innovation sales 21% 22%
High-growth economies 44% 44%
Balanced global footprint
Sales growth was strong among all regions, with favorable
high single-digit growth in Western Europe as well as in North
and Latin America. We performed well in Brazil, despite the
disruption caused by the meat scandal that impacted the
market for beef and poultry exports, and against a backdrop
of economic uncertainty. Double-digit sales growth was
achieved in China, India as well as in Eastern Europe.
All high-growth economies together currently represent 44%
of DSM's sales (45% when Africa is included), in line with 2016.
The share of sales in these economies as a proportion of
DSM's total sales gives us a well-balanced global
geographical spread of our sales.
Sustainability results
Sustainability is our core value. We continue to further embed
sustainability across all of our business activities, both in
recognition of our responsibility to reduce our environmental
footprint and to help our supply chain, customers and partners
do the same. We especially focus on the areas of nutrition,
climate and energy, and the circular and bio-based economy.
In 2017, our Brighter Living Solutions were 62% of total sales,
on track towards our ambitious aspiration of 65%.We are increasingly recognized for our leadership in this area.
In 2017, the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index named
DSM among the leaders in its industry for the fourteenth
consecutive year. This ranking means we will continue to have
RobecoSAM Gold Class status in 2018. DSM was one of only
28 companies globally to score an A-rating for both climate
and water by CDP, the non-profit global environmental
disclosure platform, which is strong recognition for the way we
manage environmental risks, reduce emissions and enhance
water stewardship. We were also assessed as an ESG
(Environmental, Social and Governance) leader within the
chemicals industry by Sustainalytics, ranking number one out
of 130 companies.
Sustainability aspirations 2020 Realization 2017
  
Dow Jones Sustainability World Index  
Top ranking (RobecoSAM Gold Class) Gold class
Brighter Living Solutions  
65% ECO+/People+ (running business) 62%
GHG Efficiency Improvement  
40-45% (2008-2025) 26%
Energy efficiency improvement  
>10% (2015-2020) 3%
Purchased electricity from renewables  
50% by 2025 21%
Employee Engagement Index  
Toward 75% favorable 75%
Safety  
0.25 Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries 0.36
Diversity  
25% Female executives 17%
60% Executives from under-represented
nationalities 56%
To read more about our environmental performance, see
'Planet' on page 46. More information on our Brighter Living
Solutions is available throughout this Report, particularly in
'Review of business' starting on page 68.
Organization and culture
We are well on track with the adjustments to our global
organizational and operating model to support DSM's growth.
To achieve our strategy, we set targets around employee
safety, engagement and diversity.
Employee engagement jumped from 71% to 75% according
to the Employee Engagement Index, which indicates how our
employees feel in terms of commitment, pride, advocacy and
satisfaction. With this boost we have already met our mid-term
goal of 75% engagement, which we had aimed to reach by
2020.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  22 www.dsm.comDSM has also made progress on inclusion and diversity, areas
that will remain a focus in the years to come. In 2017, the
percentage of female executives increased from 15% to 17%
on our way to 25% by 2020. For more information, see
'People' on page 34.
In 2017, safety performance was a concern. The Frequency
Index of all DSM Recordable Injuries deteriorated from 0.33 to
0.36 bringing us further away of our 0.25 target in 2020. There
were serious incidents, including a tragic fatal accident at our
plant in Augusta (Georgia, USA) on 27 September 2017. The
root causes of this incident, as well as the lack of further
improvement versus last year's performance, have been
thoroughly investigated. Lessons learned and improvement
actions are being implemented. For more information, see
'What still went wrong in 2017' on page 132.
Extracting value from our partnerships
In the years preceding Strategy 2018, DSM established joint
venture partnerships for our former pharma activities (DSM
Sinochem Pharmaceuticals and Patheon) and for the
remaining bulk chemical businesses (ChemicaInvest) in order
to complete the transformation of our portfolio. These
partnerships were created with a view to ultimately exit and
monetize these businesses.In 2017, DSM extracted significant value with the sale of the
remaining stake in Patheon to Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.,
bringing the total cash proceeds from the exit from our former
pharma custom manufacturing activities to approximately
€ 
2 billion over the years. The remaining two partnerships,
DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals and ChemicaInvest, both
showed solid results in 2017. For more information, see
'Partnerships' on page 97.
Regular strategy review process for the period beyond 2018
In 2017, we delivered for the second year in a row well ahead
of our original ambitions, set for the three-year strategic period
2016-2018, having achieved EBITDA growth rates and
improvements in return on capital double the original targets
set. All businesses delivered on their ambitious growth
initiatives and are making good progress with their focused
innovation programs. We are also well on track with our cost
reduction and efficiency improvement programs. Furthermore,
we have successfully divested Patheon ahead of schedule,
realizing total proceeds of approximately € 2 billion over recent
years.
With all of these developments ahead of plan, we brought
forward our regular strategy review process for the period
beyond 2018.
The members of the Executive Committee (from left to right): Philip Eykerman (Strategy and M&A), Judith Wiese (People & Organization), Chris
Goppelsroeder (Nutritional Products), Feike Sijbesma (CEO/Chairman), Geraldine Matchett (CFO), Dimitri de Vreeze (Materials) and Rob van Leen
(R&D and Innovation).Report by the Managing Board — Strategy 2018
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  23 www.dsm.comProfitPeople
Planet
ProfitPeople
Planet• Better fed & healthier individuals and 
communities
• More prospero us and resilient 
employees for the company and in its 
value chain
• More sustainable use of re sources, for 
the company and in its value chain 
• Products that contribute to safer, 
healthier working & living environments
• Driving Profitable Growth thro ugh 
science-based sustainable solutions
• Sustainable returns to investors
• Positive contribution to economic 
growth in the countries & markets in 
which DSM operates• Financial performance                    
(Adjusted EBITDA & ROCE gr owth) 
• Dividend
• Contribution to business success  
for customers & suppliers
• Contribution to civil society via tax• Patents & royalties• Safety & health
• Brighter Living Solutions• Engaged workforce• Skills & employability• Employee benefits• Improved nutrition
• Reduced environmental footprint
• Brighter Living Solutions • Enabling the transition to a more 
circular and bio-based economy  
• Safer ingredients & materialsValue outcomes Capital inputs Impact
• Shareholder equity • Borrowings• Partnerships & open innovation• Purchased goods & services• Manufacturing asset base• Employees
• Training & development• Stakeholder engagement &    Public-Private Partnerships• Philanthropy & sponsoring
• Raw materials                       
(including re newables)
• Energy (including re newables) 
• Water
Human capital
DSM employs skilled and 
talented people from diverse backgro unds. 
DSM strives to provide employees with a safe and inspiring workplace as well as with the tools and training they need to be effective and to develop their abilities. DSM rewards employees with competitive benefit packages.Societal & 
relationship capital
DSM engages with 
various stakeholders to ensure close alignment between the company’s  
aims and societal needs. DSM generates value for stakeholders outside its direct value chains of employees, suppliers, customers and end-users; these include employees’ families, governments, local communities and civil society. Natural capital
DSM recognizes that the world is an interconnected system of re sources. 
For DSM this represents a responsibility and a 
business opportunity. DSM aims to reduce the environmental impact of its supply chain, operations and products and services, while developing innovative solutions that deliver sustainability benefits to customers and beyond.Financial capital
Providers of capital – shareholders and bondholders, banks and the financial markets – supply funds that DSM uses in its business to create value, driving growth and delivering sustainable return s. Intellectual capital
DSM manufactures and distributes high-quality products and services safely, efficiently and responsibly and strives to develop valuable, collaborative and long-term relationships with customers and suppliers. DSM pursues open innovation, connect-ing and collaborating with partners and investing in start-ups.Manufactured capital
DSM has uniquecompetences in life sciences and materials sciences and connects these to deliver innovative solutions that nourish, protect and improve performance. Mission
StrategyDSM’s business
Business groups           Support functionsFunctional ExcellenceOrganizational 
and 
Operating modelRegionsHow DSM creates value for its stakeholdersBright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  24 www.dsm.comProfitPeople
Planet
ProfitPeople
Planet• Better fed & healthier individuals and 
communities
• More prospero us and resilient 
employees for the company and in its 
value chain
• More sustainable use of re sources, for 
the company and in its value chain 
• Products that contribute to safer, 
healthier working & living environments
• Driving Profitable Growth thro ugh 
science-based sustainable solutions
• Sustainable returns to investors
• Positive contribution to economic 
growth in the countries & markets in 
which DSM operates• Financial performance                    
(Adjusted EBITDA & ROCE gr owth) 
• Dividend
• Contribution to business success  
for customers & suppliers
• Contribution to civil society via tax• Patents & royalties• Safety & health
• Brighter Living Solutions• Engaged workforce• Skills & employability• Employee benefits• Improved nutrition
• Reduced environmental footprint
• Brighter Living Solutions • Enabling the transition to a more 
circular and bio-based economy  
• Safer ingredients & materialsValue outcomes Capital inputs Impact
• Shareholder equity 
• Borrowings• Partnerships & open innovation• Purchased goods & services• Manufacturing asset base• Employees
• Training & development• Stakeholder engagement &    Public-Private Partnerships• Philanthropy & sponsoring
• Raw materials                       
(including re newables)
• Energy (including re newables) 
• Water
Human capital
DSM employs skilled and 
talented people from diverse backgro unds. 
DSM strives to provide employees with a safe and inspiring workplace as well as with the tools and training they need to be effective and to develop their abilities. DSM rewards employees with competitive benefit packages.Societal & 
relationship capital
DSM engages with 
various stakeholders to ensure close alignment between the company’s  
aims and societal needs. DSM generates value for stakeholders outside its direct value chains of employees, suppliers, customers and end-users; these include employees’ families, governments, local communities and civil society. Natural capital
DSM recognizes that the world is an interconnected system of re sources. 
For DSM this represents a responsibility and a 
business opportunity. DSM aims to reduce the environmental impact of its supply chain, operations and products and services, while developing innovative solutions that deliver sustainability benefits to customers and beyond.Financial capital
Providers of capital – shareholders and bondholders, banks and the financial markets – supply funds that DSM uses in its business to create value, driving growth and delivering sustainable return s. Intellectual capital
DSM manufactures and 
distributes high-quality products and services safely, efficiently and responsibly and strives to develop valuable, collaborative and long-term relationships with customers and suppliers. DSM pursues open innovation, connect-ing and collaborating with partners and investing in start-ups.Manufactured capital
DSM has uniquecompetences in life sciences and materials sciences and connects these to deliver innovative solutions that nourish, protect and improve performance. Mission
StrategyDSM’s business
Business groups           Support functionsFunctional ExcellenceOrganizational 
and 
Operating modelRegions
ProfitPeople
Planet
ProfitPeople
Planet• Better fed & healthier individuals and 
communities
• More prospero us and resilient 
employees for the company and in its 
value chain
• More sustainable use of re sources, for 
the company and in its value chain 
• Products that contribute to safer, 
healthier working & living environments
• Driving Profitable Growth thro ugh 
science-based sustainable solutions
• Sustainable returns to investors
• Positive contribution to economic 
growth in the countries & markets in 
which DSM operates• Financial performance                    
(Adjusted EBITDA & ROCE gr owth) 
• Dividend
• Contribution to business success  
for customers & suppliers
• Contribution to civil society via tax• Patents & royalties• Safety & health
• Brighter Living Solutions• Engaged workforce• Skills & employability• Employee benefits• Improved nutrition
• Reduced environmental footprint
• Brighter Living Solutions • Enabling the transition to a more 
circular and bio-based economy  
• Safer ingredients & materialsValue outcomes Capital inputs Impact
• Shareholder equity • Borrowings• Partnerships & open innovation• Purchased goods & services• Manufacturing asset base• Employees
• Training & development• Stakeholder engagement &    Public-Private Partnerships• Philanthropy & sponsoring
• Raw materials                       
(including re newables)
• Energy (including re newables) 
• Water
Human capital
DSM employs skilled and 
talented people from diverse backgro unds. 
DSM strives to provide employees with a safe and inspiring workplace as well as with the tools and training they need to be effective and to develop their abilities. DSM rewards employees with competitive benefit packages.Societal & 
relationship capital
DSM engages with 
various stakeholders to ensure close alignment between the company’s  
aims and societal needs. DSM generates value for stakeholders outside its direct value chains of employees, suppliers, customers and end-users; these include employees’ families, governments, local communities and civil society. Natural capital
DSM recognizes that the world is an interconnected system of re sources. 
For DSM this represents a responsibility and a 
business opportunity. DSM aims to reduce the environmental impact of its supply chain, operations and products and services, while developing innovative solutions that deliver sustainability benefits to customers and beyond.Financial capital
Providers of capital – shareholders and bondholders, banks and the financial markets – supply funds that DSM uses in its business to create value, driving growth and delivering sustainable return s. Intellectual capital
DSM manufactures and distributes high-quality products and services safely, efficiently and responsibly and strives to develop valuable, collaborative and long-term relationships with customers and suppliers. DSM pursues open innovation, connect-ing and collaborating with partners and investing in start-ups.Manufactured capital
DSM has uniquecompetences in life sciences and materials sciences and connects these to deliver innovative solutions that nourish, protect and improve performance. Mission
StrategyDSM’s business
Business groups           Support functionsFunctional ExcellenceOrganizational 
and 
Operating modelRegionsSDGsThe diagram here is based on the International Integrated
Reporting Council's Integrated Reporting <IR> framework and
gives an overview of how DSM creates value for stakeholders
based on six capital inputs:
-
Human capital
- Societal & relationship capital
- Natural capital
- Financial capital
- Intellectual capital
- Manufactured capital
Since 2002, we have reported on our performance in terms of
People, Planet and Profit, and so the six capitals shown here
continue to be clustered accordingly.
DSM's organizational and operating model is made up of
market-facing business groups focused on the primary
business functions (Innovation and R&D, Direct Sourcing,
Manufacturing & Operations, and Marketing & Sales), global
support and functional excellence departments, and regional
organizations.
We seek to minimize risk and take advantage of the
opportunities around megatrends, thereby transforming the
capital inputs into value and positive impact. A key part of our
strategy, aside from our financial targets, is to continue to
strengthen our commitment to sustainability. We especially try
to have a positive impact through our engagement related to
the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). DSM engages on
all 17 SDGs, especially on the five shown in this figure. For
more information, see 'DSM and the Sustainable Development
Goals' on page 10 and throughout this Report.
 Report by the Managing Board — How DSM creates value for its stakeholders
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  25 www.dsm.comStakeholders
DSM works with stakeholders that operate within our value
chain, such as customers, employees and suppliers, as well
as stakeholders outside our value chain including investors,
governments and civil society. We have regular open
discussions about topics that are relevant to our operations
and our impact on society. These conversations shape how
we execute our strategy, including risk management,
materiality and new business opportunities. The needs and
values of our stakeholders must be balanced with our own
objectives.
Customers
Our customers are key stakeholders. They drive our business.
We work extensively with customers to strengthen our
commercial and strategic relationships. For information on
DSM's business and customers, see 'Review of business'
starting on page 68.
Employees
DSM's employees represent 100 nationalities, working at
more than 200 sites and offices in 46 countries worldwide. We
aim to provide a healthy, diverse and safe working
environment for all our employees, including contractors. For
information on how DSM engages employees, see 'People'
on page 34.
Suppliers
DSM's supply chain consists of more than 34,000 suppliers.
Suppliers are important partners in achieving our sustainability
goals, and we work closely with them through our Supplier
Sustainability Program.
Investors
DSM actively communicates with investors and with the
analysts advising them. We provide quality information about
developments at DSM, ensuring that relevant information is
equally and simultaneously provided and accessible to all
interested parties.
Scientific research institutions
DSM openly collaborates with renowned universities and
science institutes such as the European Knowledge and
Innovation Communities, the University of Ulster in Coleraine
(United Kingdom), and MIT in Boston (Massachusetts, USA).
We provide funding and also share knowledge, research and
facilities.
NGOs
DSM engages with NGOs and other organizations to work
toward solutions for the world's societal challenges.
Stakeholders
7Governments NGOs 
Local 
communities Civil societyDSM Value ChainScientific 
instit
utions
InvestorsSuppliers Employees Customers End-usersLocal communities
It is important that DSM fosters a strong relationship with the
communities where we operate. We engage and inform our
local stakeholders through open days, news bulletins, social
media and other initiatives.
Governments
Engaging with governments is increasingly important,
especially considering DSM's commitment to the Paris
Agreement and the SDGs. We engage with governments
directly as well as through coalitions and trade associations.
As stated in our Code of Business Conduct, we do not make
political donations.
Civil society
In addition to the engagements we have with society through
NGOs, local communities and other initiatives, DSM also
engages in philanthropic events and sponsorship activities.
See 'Philanthropy and sponsorships' on page 150.
For more information on how DSM engages with each of these
stakeholders, see 'Stakeholder engagement' on page 139.
Materiality
Materiality is a way for companies to identify and analyze the
topics that could have significant social, environmental,
financial or reputational impact on their business, and which
are important to the company's stakeholders. These topics
are called material topics. DSM regularly reviews the material
topics that could impact us. We chart these in a materiality
matrix, which is refreshed annually.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  26 www.dsm.comOur refresh in 2017 included a big data study that analyzed
the public disclosures of thousands of relevant stakeholders.This study was supplemented with desk research as well asinterviews with key stakeholders. The 2017 topics and matrixwere further refined during an internal workshop with DSMemployees from various disciplines and later fine-tunedthrough interviews with the Executive Committee anddiscussions with the Sustainability Leadership Team. Thematrix was compared with the Corporate Risk Assessmentprocedure to make sure that all relevant subjects wereaddressed from a materiality and/or risk perspective. Finally, itwas approved by the Managing Board.
Changes in 2017
The layout of the materiality matrix was improved in 2017 toincrease clarity. The new matrix is consistent with 2016,however, it does not correspond one on one. The matrix hassix areas that represent the range of societal interest in eachtopic and potential business impact.As a result of the review process, some topics have beenadjusted:
- 'Product Stewardship' was identified as a new topic.
- 'Taxation' and 'Transparency & reporting' were moved
under the umbrella of 'Responsible business practices'.
- 'Advocacy & reputation' was renamed 'Advocacy &
stakeholder engagement'.
- The subtopic of overweight/obesity is now included in
'Health & wellness' rather than 'Malnutrition & nutritionsecurity'.
- 'Malnutrition & nutrition security' focuses on the insufficient
intake of (micro)nutrients and access to food that iscalorically and nutritionally sufficient.
For more information on DSM's positions on relevantsocietal issues, see the company website.
Society 
Business enablers
GovernanceEnvironmentMateriality matrix 2017 
Business impactSocietal intetest
Moderate Significant MajorLow High
Water security
Biodiversity
Responsible
business 
practices
Product 
StewardshipMalnutrition 
& nutrition 
security
Trade barriersBioethicsEmerging 
economies
Careers & 
employmentOpen 
innovation
Sustainable 
food systemsResource 
scarcity/Circular & bio-based economyClimate change & renewable energyHealth & wellness
Product & 
food safety Advocacy & 
stakeholder 
engagementGeopolitical tensions & inequalities 
Digital 
transformation
For more information on Materiality, see 'Management approach for material topics', on page 144.Report by the Managing Board — Stakeholders
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  27 www.dsm.comCollaborative platforms and networks
DSM collaborates with like-minded peers through platforms
and networks that align with our sustainable growth areas:
nutrition, climate and energy, and circular and bio-based
economy. Through these collaborations, we develop new
social and environmental measurement and performance
standards, help shape the business community's
contributions to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
and act as advocates on material topics such as 'Climate
change & renewable energy', 'Malnutrition & nutrition security'
and 'Resource scarcity / Circular & bio-based economy'. In
this section, we describe some of the most significant
initiatives.
World Economic Forum (WEF)
DSM is a strategic partner of WEF and we attended their
meetings throughout 2017, including the Annual Meeting in
Davos. We further strengthened our presence at regional
meetings, including in Africa and Latin America as well as Asia,
to highlight key partnerships and initiatives concerning
nutrition and climate change. We participated in many projects
and initiatives of WEF, including the Compact for Responsible
and Responsive Leadership, the New Vision for Agriculture
and the Responsible Battery Alliance.
Our CEO Feike Sijbesma co-chaired the inaugural Sustainable
Development Impact Summit in New York in September. This
summit provided a new platform for strengthening public-
private engagement to advance creative solutions and deliver
on the ambitions of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable
Development. He also co-chaired the Consumer Governors
and the CEO Climate Alliance (formerly WEF CEO Climate
Leaders).
World Business Council for Sustainable Development
(WBCSD)
DSM is a member of WBCSD and participates in a number of
its working groups and coalitions. DSM is one of the founding
members of Food Reform for Sustainability and Health
(FReSH), a coalition between WBCSD and EAT, a foundation
focused on food systems. With 40 companies, FReSH aims
to transform global food systems so that all people can have
healthy diets from food that is produced responsibly and with
respect for the planet. DSM is a member of the Program Board
and co-leads a number of workstreams, applying our science
and business insights to help shape the direction of this
coalition.
As a member of the WBCSD working group called Reporting
Matters, DSM contributed to the development and launch of
The Reporting Exchange platform. This platform provides a
one stop shop for non-financial mandatory and voluntary
reporting provisions from around the world and will be
community managed. At launch, more than 1,600 provisions
were already listed.Within the Low Carbon Technology Partnerships initiative
(LCTPi) — a multi-stakeholder platform led by the WBCSD that
presents the opportunities of large-scale development and
deployment of low-carbon technologies — we were in the
Leadership Group of the global campaign 'below50'. The
campaign unites companies that produce, use and/or invest
in fuels that are at least 50% less carbon-intensive than fossil
fuels. The aim is to promote the best sustainable fuels that can
achieve significant carbon reductions and to scale up their
development and use.
Toward the end of 2017, DSM joined the WBCSD's new
circular economy program, Factor10, as a founding member.
This new program will kick-off in 2018. As co-chair of the
program, we will focus on circular metrics, as well as
developing circular blueprints for the built environment,
automotive and bio-economy sectors. The term built
environment refers to human-made surroundings.
Accounting for Sustainability (A4S)
Our CFO Geraldine Matchett continued her active role as Co-
Chair of the A4S CFO Leadership Network. This network
brings together leading CFOs to help embed the management
of environmental and social issues into business processes
and strategy, particularly through the finance function. She is
a signatory to the A4S CFO statement of support for the
Taskforce for Climate-related Financial Disclosures
recommendations.
DSM contributed in particular to the A4S Culture project,
which aims to create a shift in the culture of the finance
profession in organizations that already have a strong focus
on sustainability. This includes showing finance professionals
why and how they can play a part in delivering sustainability
initiatives by motivating, empowering and inspiring them to
make the changes required.
Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC) convened by the
World Bank
In April, our CEO Feike Sijbesma's role as Co-Chair of the High
Level Assembly of the CPLC was extended for a second year.
The CPLC's long-term objective is for carbon pricing to be
applied throughout the global economy. In addition to
facilitating leadership dialogues, the CPLC is also mobilizing
business support to put an internal price on carbon. DSM
applies an internal carbon price of € 
50 per ton CO 2eq when
reviewing large investments. In January, Mr. Sijbesma was
appointed, together with Kofi Annan and Christiana Figueres
(former Executive Secretary of UNFCCC, the UN's climate
organization), a 'Climate Leader' by the World Bank Group.
At various high-level events throughout the year, such as New
York Climate Week and the UN Climate Conference COP23,
Mr. Sijbesma shared DSM's experience with carbon pricing.
He called on other businesses to implement an internal carbon
price and advocated for embedding a price on carbon in global
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  28 www.dsm.comfinancial systems. He reinforced this message at the One
Planet Summit in Paris organized by President Macron in
December, where Mr. Sijbesma joined heads of government
and leaders in public and private finance, and was invited to
address the summit.
DSM CEO Feike Sijbesma at the One Planet Summit in Paris.
Ellen MacArthur Foundation
We continued our engagement with the Foundation and
CE100. CE100 is the Foundation's global platform that brings
together companies, emerging innovators, universities and
cities to accelerate the transition toward a circular economy.
In 2017, we collaborated on a CE100 project with Essity, IKEA
and Tetra Pak to promote the role of renewable materials in a
circular economy. We also offered targeted employees an
online circular economy training through the CE100 and
University of Bradford School of Management (UK).
Circle Economy
We renewed our membership with Circle Economy, a social
enterprise that emphasizes practical and scalable solutions in
the transition, and joined their Built Environment program to
work with construction partners in the value chain.
RE100
Our engagement with RE100, the world's leading campaign
to scale corporate sourcing of renewable power, continued
throughout 2017. We participated in the learning
opportunities, conferences and advocacy opportunities
offered to DSM in the EU, US and increasingly in China. As
part of our RE100 commitment, we shared our insights
through webinars, presentations and other engagements on
our long-term commitment with fellow RE100 members
AkzoNobel, Google and Philips to jointly source power from
wind energy projects in the Netherlands. More information on
renewable energy can be found in 'Planet' on page 46.
We Mean Business
We Mean Business activates hundreds of companies and
investors to commit to low-carbon initiatives. In 2017, wecollaborated on the International Business Declaration that
was launched at the One Planet Summit and continued to
work together on the Carbon Pricing Corridors project, led by
CDP, CPLC and We Mean Business. This project aims to
enable large market players to define the carbon prices
needed for industry to meet the Paris Agreement. We also
worked on a number of advocacy and communications
activities around 'below50' and renewable energy.
Dutch Sustainable Growth Coalition (DSGC)
DSM continues to engage with DSGC. Together we have a
clear shared roadmap for engaging with the SDGs and
working on the scale up of innovations under development.
The DSGC also acted collectively and responsibly to share its
views on climate policy with the incoming Dutch government.
Catalyst
Catalyst, Inc. is a non-profit organization that promotes
inclusive workplaces for women. DSM sponsors Catalyst
through the role of our CEO Feike Sijbesma on the Board of
Directors and our CFO Geraldine Matchett on the European
Advisory Board. In 2017, Mr. Sijbesma was recognized as a
Catalyst CEO Champion for Change for his efforts to support
positive change in the areas of gender balance, diversity and
inclusion. DSM supported Catalyst's global communications
campaign launched on International Women's Day. The
campaign raised awareness and promoted progress on issues
related to women in the workplace. In November, the Catalyst
Europe Advisory Board visited DSM to discuss advancing
women in business.
UN World Food Programme (WFP)
In place since 2007, the DSM-WFP partnership 'Improving
Nutrition, Improving Lives' aims to improve the nutritional value
of the food that WFP distributes through product innovations
such as fortified rice and a product aimed at people living with
HIV/AIDS. Together, DSM and WFP make a difference to
millions of people.
In 2016, WFP reached 31.1 million beneficiaries with food that
was improved by the DSM-WFP partnership. Additionally,
DSM and WFP collaborate on training and development
initiatives and on employee fundraising campaigns.
UNICEF
The DSM-UNICEF partnership has been in place since 2013.
In 2017, DSM signed an agreement with UNICEF and the
humanitarian nutrition think tank Sight and Life to deliver better
nutrition to about 400,000 children, starting with the
micronutrient powder pilot in Nigeria, including Bauchi in the
North East and Kebbi in the North West. The partners will also
advocate on the global level for microsupplement intervention
in other places where people suffer from malnourishment. The
partnership continues its capacity support of the African
Nutrition Leadership program.Report by the Managing Board — Stakeholders
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  29 www.dsm.comWorld Vision
DSM signed an agreement in January 2017 with World Vision
International and Sight and Life for 'Joining forces for last mile
nutrition'. The parties have worked on improving the raw
material quality and access in Rwanda for Africa Improved
Foods and has also initiated project EGGciting, focusing on
eggs as an important nutrition source.
At DSM, we leverage our scientific excellence, technical
expertise and large customer base to facilitate the
development and supply of innovative nutrition, formulation
and fortification.
Partners in Food Solutions
Partners in Food Solutions is a multi-sector partnership
between the companies DSM, General Mills, Cargill, The
Hershey Company, Bühler and Ardent Mills, working in
partnership with USAID, TechnoServe and Root Capital to
serve more than 600 small and growing food companies
throughout Africa.
Partners in Food Solutions realized additional growth in West
Africa. DSM volunteers from Latin America, Europe and India
continued to dedicate their technical and business expertise
to improving the performance of food processors and millers
in Africa.Scaling Up Nutrition
The SUN Business Network (SBN) represents the private
sector in the Scaling Up Nutrition (SUN) Movement. The
Network recruits and supports companies who pledge to
contribute to the improvement of global nutrition. DSM's CEO
Feike Sijbesma is a member of the Lead Group of the SUN
Movement and Co-Chair of the Advisory Group of the
Network. DSM's VP of Nutrition in Emerging Markets and
Public Private Partnerships, Fokko Wientjes, is on the
executive board of the SUN Business Network.
Via the network, as well as the WFP partnership, DSM
supported a number of SBN projects in Zambia, Zimbabwe
and Malawi. DSM advocates for business to take a leading role
on this important issue.
For information about other nutrition initiatives and
partnerships, such as Africa Improved Foods, Nutrition
Improvement Program, and Sight and Life, see 'Nutrition' on
page 68 and 'Philanthropy and Sponsorships' on page
150.
Africa Improved Foods' Aline Batamuliza (left) and DSM's Fokko Wientjes (right) working together with the World Food Programme to deliver Super
Cereal Plus, the fortified food that DSM developed for malnourished children in Africa.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  30 www.dsm.comExternal recognition
We are proud when our efforts are recognized by others. Below is a selection of some awards and recognition that DSM received
from NGOs and trade organizations, customers, suppliers and academia in 2017. A full list of our recognitions can be found onthe company website.
Organization Recognition
In July, DSM was assessed as an ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) leader within the 
chemicals industry by Sustainalytics, ranking number 1 out of 130 companies.In May, DSM was presented with the 2017 BioEconomy Leadership Award at the 39th Symposium on 
Biotechnology for Fuels and Chemicals. This fairly new award recognizes the companies or NGOs that have significantly advanced the development of a renewable resource-based fuels and chemicals economy. Being selected as an early recipient speaks volumes about how influential DSM has been in developing bio-based products and advancing the bio-based economy.
In September, DSM was named among the world leaders in the Materials industry group in the 
Dow Jones Sustainability World Index in recognition of the company's consistent and longstanding commitment to sustainability. DSM has been among the global leaders for the past 14 years and number one in the sector seven times.
In September, DSM was listed in 2nd place in Fortune Magazine’s 3rd annual Change the World list, 
which recognized 56 companies that have had a positive social impact through activities that are part of their core business strategy.
In October, the World Resources Institute (WRI) honored DSM's CEO Feike Sijbesma at its 2017 
Courage to Lead dinner in New York City, recognizing his bold leadership to solve global challenges. According to WRI, Mr. Sijbesma has been an outspoken champion of reimagining the economic system and corporate responsibility to go beyond profit and incorporate people and planet in value creation.
In October, DSM was awarded a position on the 2017 A List for climate and water by CDP, the 
non-profit global environmental disclosure platform. At DSM, we report our climate actions to CDP and 
we are one of only 28 companies to score an A for both climate and water, in recognition of our actions in the reporting year to manage environmental risks, cut carbon emissions and enhance water stewardship.
In November, DSM China was named in the ‘2016-2017 Most Respected Companies in China’ list 
organized by The Economic Observer, one of the major economic-focused newspapers in China. The award recognizes companies that have demonstrated excellence in areas including financial performance, operations and management, innovation and corporate social responsibility.
Report by the Managing Board — Stakeholders
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  31 www.dsm.comBright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  32 www.dsm.com
Report by the Managing Board — Stakeholders
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  33 www.dsm.com
DSM is committed to inspiring and 
developing talented people. We are building a company culture of diversity and equality. In 2017, more than 20 DSM employees from across the globe participated in One Young World in Colombia, where leaders and young people came together to advance progress on important societal issues. We also sent 20 women and men to the Women’s International Networking Conference in Norway.@Oray_31Oreofe Odunsi‏ Just registered for the 'O@WColombia Proud to see @DSM as one of the sponsors!!!Bogotá, Colombiaof employees feel good about working 
at DSM according to our engagement survey, a 4% jump versus 2016.People
75%Engaging our employees
We are building an inclusive culture where each 
employee feels he or she can contribute to a much larger global conversation.
Inclusion 
Index up from 70%
1 in 2016 Female executives +2% up from 2016Ratio female/malestable versus 201627/73 71%
Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries, a performance decline versus 0.33 in 2016 (per 100 DSM employees and contractors)0.36 17%
1Restated. See 'Careers & employment' for more information.Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  34 www.dsm.comDSM aspires to a high-performance culture that supports the
delivery of our targets and aspirations. We seek to attract andretain original thinkers and doers who can further ourcompany's capabilities while actively developing their owncredentials and careers. Above all, we aspire to be an injury-and incident-free organization.
In 2017, DSM's Executive Committee welcomed Judith
Wiese. Mrs. Wiese officially replaced Peter Vrijsen, EVP DSMGroup People & Organization (P&O) as of January 2018. Shehas held a number of leadership positions in various regionsof the world and within different sectors, focusing on P&O,talent management and organizational development.
Our People Strategy 2018 supports the company's overall
strategy by focusing on three pillars: 1) agile employees, 2)skilled employees, and 3) accountable employees. Thesethree pillars reinforce the most relevant material topics for ourpeople:
- Health & wellness
- Careers & employment- Responsible business practices
For more information about our People performance, see
'Sustainability Statements - People' on page 137. See also'How DSM creates value for its stakeholders' on page 24 and'Stakeholders' on page 26.
Health & wellness
 Aspiration 2017 2016
Occupational safety    
- Frequency Index REC 0.25 
in 2020 0.36 0.33
- Frequency Index LWC  0.16 0.14
Process safety    
- PSI Rate 0.15 
in 2020 0.19 0.28
Occupational health
cases  14 6
Occupational and process safety
Employee health includes safety at work. We strive to be anincident- and injury-free company. At the end of the day,people should leave work exactly as they came, if not better.So it is with deep regret that we report a fatal accident thatoccurred at our DSM Resins & Functional Materials site inAugusta (Georgia, USA).
Both occupational and process safety are extremely important
to us. Occupational safety is the safety of people (employeesand contractors). Process safety is the safe operation offacilities. We set targets, define actions and monitor safetyperformance as described in the DSM Responsible Care Plan2016-2020. We report our occupational and process safetyperformance with frequency indexes. For a full description ofthese indexes, see 'Explanation of some concepts and ratios'on page 240.
Occupational safety
In 2017, the Frequency Index of all DSM Recordable Injuriesincreased from 0.33 to 0.36, bringing us further away from our2020 target of 0.25. The Frequency Index of Lost WorkdayCases for DSM employees was 0.16 in 2017 versus 0.14 in2016.
The Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries among
contractors improved from 0.56 in 2016 to 0.46 in 2017. Thiscan be attributed in part to the enhanced effectiveness of ourcompany's Life Saving Rules, especially those related to workpermits.
Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries
12-month moving average
REC-rate, DSM all
1.0Rate for Lost Workday Cases (LWC), DSM-own
0.8
2007 2009 2011 2013 2015 20170.6
0.4
0.2
00.16DSM Target FI REC All 2020: 0.250.36
Despite the improvements in contractor safety, overall safety
performance in 2017 was a concern. Several incidents earlyin the year triggered us to host a safety workshop in June.Thirty-five executives from across DSM gathered to reflect andbuild momentum for better safety awareness andperformance. As a result, a new program called Living Safety'I care, We care' was rolled out globally to emphasize theimportance of:
- visible leadership by all employees;
- safety knowledge and skills; and- increased communication about safety.
DSM designed a new onboarding course for executives to
further emphasize safety as a company value and, in addition,our leadership teams are participating in a series of workshopscalled How to Live Safety. DSM is also developing a morestandardized approach for certain high-risk activities.
Tragically, and despite these initiatives, there was a fatal
accident at our DSM Resins & Functional Materials site inReport by the Managing Board — People
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  35 www.dsm.comAugusta (Georgia, USA) in September 2017. One contractor
was fatally injured, another was severely injured and a third
suffered less severe injuries in the same incident. The root
causes have been thoroughly investigated and the lessons
learned are being implemented. We are committed to the
safety of all workers and will continue to pay close attention to
contractor safety. DSM is supporting the affected families.
Process safety
Process safety incidents are rare but can have a major impact
on people and the environment. Since 2015, process safety
has been measured by DSM according to the International
Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) standards, with a
target for 2020 of 0.15.
Frequency Index of Process Safety Incidents
12-month moving aver
age
0.4
0.3
0.2
Target 2020: 
0.150.280.30
0.19
0.1
0New baseline 
2015: 0.30
2015 2016 2017
The Process Safety Incident rate improved from 0.28 in 2016
to 0.19 in 2017. Most incidents were related to the
unintentional release of substances from plants or storage
facilities and were remediated without further consequence.
There was a small number of other incidents, which are
described in the chapter 'What still went wrong' on page
132.
DSM's safety planning focuses most on incidents and
situations that pose the highest risk and the steps we can take
to avoid them. Our 12 Life Saving Rules reflect those risks and
serve as a standard for safe day-to-day operations. They are
included in the internal auditing system, which is applied at all
levels of the organization — corporate, business groups and
sites.
Employee health
Like all people, DSM employees deserve good working
conditions. We use an Occupational Health Module based on
three pillars: prevention, primary care and promotion.
Our approach to the prevention of safety and health issues is
through employee training on industrial hygiene, including
physical hazards and exposure. Primary care includes our
emergency preparedness, first aid and our site-based medical
professionals. Promotion of good health is addressed throughour approach to health and fitness, as well as our Safety,
Health and Environment policies.
DSM is encouraging a culture of health with our Vitality@DSM
program. Vitality@DSM is a voluntary program that helps
employees track and assess their physical, social and mental
well-being. More than 1,000 people participated in 2017.
Sixty-seven percent of the participants reported low lifestyle-
related risks. Others indicated moderate to high risks, mostly
because of stress and lack of exercise. Participants received
customized advice to help improve their overall well-being,
support early intervention before disease and maintain
employability. In 2017, compared to 2016, the productivity
gains attributable to the program reached approximately
€ 
120,000 according to the group report.
DSM FIT | Worklife Center was created from the integration of
the Occupational Health Center, the Employability Center and
the Mobility Center to improve the vitality and employability of
people during their careers at DSM. This addresses two
concerns: our responsibility for our employees and fostering a
vital workforce that is best able to support our company goals.
We believe in "brighter you, brighter us".
In addition, DSM continued our Global Corporate Challenge,
a team-based approach to better health. In 2017, 360
employee teams participated, up from 83 teams in 2016.
Seventy-seven percent of the 2,520 participants achieved the
recommended daily levels for physical effort of 10,000 steps
per day. Based on this success, DSM will roll out an even more
comprehensive health promotion program in 2018.
Local wellness initiatives are on the rise. For example, DSM
Nutritional Products in Dalry (United Kingdom) received an
award from the Chemical Industries Association for their
commitment to health leadership.
Occupational health cases
Even with these programs, sometimes work negatively
impacts employees. In 2017, there were 14 occupational
health cases reported with a clear link to physical working
conditions. Two cases were related to sensitization to certain
chemical/biological substances and two were related to
hearing loss due to noise in the workplace. The remaining
cases were mainly related to ergonomics at the workplace. At
the DSM Jiangshan (China) site, which we acquired in 2015,
14 people have indications of hearing loss. We discovered this
in December 2017 as part of the site's integration program,
during which improved medical checks are performed. This
issue is still under investigation and therefore not yet included
in the reported figure.
Another area of concern is stress. High stress levels, whether
from work or private life, can negatively impact personal
health, well-being and employability. Stress sometimes goes
unacknowledged by the affected person or the company and
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  36 www.dsm.comtherefore it may not be fully captured in our occupational health
reporting.
Privacy concerns or cultural factors may influence employees'
willingness to report and discuss personal health issues, so
some occupational health cases may go unreported. DSM
continues to raise awareness about stress and other
occupational health risks and encourages transparency.
Careers & employment
 Aspiration 2017 2016
Employee Engagement 75% 
by 2020 75% 71%
Inclusion & Diversity    
- Female executives 25% 
by 2020 17% 15%
- Under-represented
nationalities60% 
by 2020 56% 53%
- Inclusion Index1 71% 70%
Learning and
Development    
- Training hours per
employee2 19 25
1The Inclusion Index is based on a different mix of questions in the 2017 Employee
Engagement Survey in comparison to previous years. The Inclusion Index figure for
2016 has been recalculated to reflect this change in the mix of questions (resulting
in a change for the 2016 Inclusion Index from 73% to the above mentioned 70%).
2As of 2017, development training hours/employee is partly measured using a new
system with a stricter definition. Figures of previous years cannot be recalculated
according to the new definitions. As a result, the 2017 figure cannot be compared
to the figures of previous years.
Workforce engagement
An engaged workforce is essential for DSM. The DSM
Employee Engagement Survey, run annually since 2007, helps
us understand how employees feel at work and where we
need to improve. The goal is to ensure that people are proud
to work at DSM and that they can excel. The survey measures
four attributes: commitment, pride, advocacy and satisfaction.
Since 2015, we alternate every other year between the
comprehensive version and what we call a 'pulse' survey —
a shorter version that still collects essential information about
safety, engagement, inclusion and other key themes. The two-
year cycle gives teams more time to make meaningful change.
The 2017 survey, which was a 'pulse' survey, was sent to all
employees and was available in 21 languages. It had an 82%
response rate. The Engagement Index jumped 4% to a score
of 75%. With the solid results in 2017, we have already
reached our target of 75% by 2020.
The results showed encouraging movement in key areas.
Employees confirmed their trust in our strategy, with 82%agreeing with the sentiment "I believe DSM has a promising
future" versus 78% in 2016.
The company has also improved people management,
according to the results. For example, 64% of employees
agreed "My manager has invested time and effort in my growth
and development", up from 59% in 2016 after a drop from
63% in 2015. We were encouraged to see that respondents
feel inspired by our managers and that employees perceive
that more time and effort was spent on development in 2017.
These elements, among others, are key for the personal
growth and satisfaction of all employees. Still, there is room
for further improvement and we will continue to develop our
people managers.
x“
Our people make all the
difference. Providing space
to learn, grow and make a
meaningful contribution is
key to our people's
engagement and DSM's
success.  ”
Judith Wiese, DSM Executive Committee
While we see an increase in questions relating to development,
we see that the satisfaction on career opportunities is slightly
decreasing. Going forward, we need to make sure our
employees feel that the effort that is put into their development
results in better career moves, especially for our early career
talent.
We are very proud to see the increase in engagement. It shows
us our employees' optimism and recognition that we are on
the right path, both in terms of business as well as people
practices.
Inclusion & Diversity
DSM's Inclusion & Diversity activity focuses on two main
topics:
-Increasing representation of women and under-represented
nationalities at executive level and throughout our
management pipeline in order to fuel innovation and growth
in every country where we operate
- Creating an inclusive work environment where each
employee contributes 100%Report by the Managing Board — People
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  37 www.dsm.comWe aim to have 25% female executives and for at least 60%
of our executives to come from under-represented
nationalities by 2020. We achieved our short-term target of an
improvement in each by 2% in 2017 thanks to a renewed
focus and commitment of all businesses and functions. The
percentage of executive women in 2017 reached 17%, while
the number of under-represented nationalities at executive
level reached 56%, just a few points away from our long-term
aim.
In 2017, new targets were also added to increase the diversity
of the DSM pipeline below executive level. These targets focus
both on gender and nationality mix, and were defined in the
Inclusion & Diversity aspirations of our major business groups
and functions. Both measures saw a positive trend across all
of our businesses and functions, with representation growing
an average of 2% and 3% respectively versus 2016.
In line with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, the
Supervisory Board drafted a diversity policy for the Executive
Committee, Managing Board and Supervisory Board. This
policy aims for a 30% gender balance and, for the Executive
Committee and Supervisory Board, no more than 50% of
members from one nationality. For more detail see 'Corporate
governance' on page 101.
With the mid-year appointment of Judith Wiese in 2017, our
Executive Committee's gender and nationality diversity is 29%
and 57% respectively. Our Managing Board, consisting of one
female and two male members, is fully aligned with the 30%
prescribed by Dutch legislation in terms of gender balance.
Our Supervisory Board is also well balanced, in terms of both
gender and nationalities, and is in line with Dutch legislation in
this regard. More than one third of the members are women.
Furthermore, in the Supervisory Board of DSM Nederland
B.V., a subsidiary of Royal DSM, one of the three members is
female.
Gender balance will continue to require attention and our
Executive Committee has devoted considerable energy to this
topic in order to stimulate change. Our CEO Feike Sijbesma
signed a commitment as one of the Catalyst CEO Champions
For Change, signaling the company's active support for
gender equality. In 2017, we ran several external outreach
campaigns, such as 'It's the balance that makes us stronger',
which celebrated the company's achievements on gender
diversity. Centered around social media, it features unscripted,
personal video profiles of DSM's senior women leaders and
directs viewers to a LinkedIn hub that offers a place for women
all over the world to connect. In addition, we are building a
strong, diverse internal talent pipeline to drive our future
growth aspirations.
Inclusion has been a central focus area in 2017. Several steps
were taken to begin meaningful conversations and raise
awareness around this topic such as training for all executives,a broad online communication and awareness campaign for
more than 2,000 people managers, and the participation of
about 20 female and male employees in the Women's
International Networking Conference in Oslo (Norway). In
addition, employees shared stories about what inclusion
means to each of them in our internal, employee-led 'I for
Inclusion' digital campaign.
DSM's inclusion efforts are monitored on a yearly basis via the
Employee Engagement Inclusion Index, which improved over
the past year, moving from 70% in 2016 to 71% in 2017. This
consistent improvement suggests that progress is being made
in creating and maintaining inclusive environments across the
company.
Going forward, DSM will also continue to address the
geographical distribution of executives and other key functions
keeping a keen eye on nationality balance, as this remains an
essential aspect to foster at this stage.
Learning and development at DSM
Learning and development grows our employees and leaders,
which in turn facilitates our company's growth.
Our employees are curious people and we encourage a
culture of continuous learning through a 70:20:10 approach:
-
70% learning through experiences, like guided on-the-job
assignments
- 20% through other people, like peer learning opportunities
and mentoring
- 10% more formal learning through classroom training and
digital learning
With this approach, people learn from experience, feedback,
reflection, experiments and mistakes in addition to training
courses. On average, the DSM employees who are registered
in our training portal had 19 hours of developmental training in
2017.
DSM works in close cooperation with leading international
business schools and global learning content providers such
as Duke Corporate Education, Ashridge Executive Education,
Vlerick Business School, and CrossKnowledge, to design and
deliver high-quality learning activities for employees around the
world.
We are making it easier to access learning opportunities
through a more user-friendly platform. A new global Learning
Management System that is part of DSM's integrated Talent
Suite system is replacing legacy systems. This way,
employees have a one-stop shop for all company learning
activities, including development and mandatory training.
Processes for approval, registration, cancellation, evaluation
and reporting on learning and development are now simpler
and consistent worldwide.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  38 www.dsm.comAdditionally, in April 2017, DSM extended access to our online
platform, called Bright Learning, to all employees. A new
smartphone app improved the user experience. Now people
can learn anytime, anywhere. This platform will be integrated
with the new Learning Management System. Preparations and
testing are underway.
Bright Mentoring
Bright Mentoring is a DSM program that connects people
across the organization to encourage mentorship and learning
through others. Benefits include:
-
more cross-business networking;
- a better connection and understanding of the company
strategy and different businesses;
- accelerated employee development and exposure; and
- mutual learning for mentor and mentee.
There are about 300 employees in mentoring relationships
across DSM.
Developing leadership and people management
Developing our leaders and people managers is a priority.
Launched in 2012, the DSM Leadership Model specifies the
behavior we expect from our leaders and people managers.
The model provides a common vision and language on
leadership at DSM, which is now fully embedded in our key
processes to hire, develop, evaluate and manage talent across
the organization.
We recognize that throughout their careers, leaders go
through several transitions. Our leadership programs support
development through each transition: leading self, leading
others, and leading leaders. In 2017, most of the design and
development work took place, as did the first pilot sessions.
We expect these programs to fully roll out in 2018.
In addition, we continued People Manager 2018, the monthly
virtual campaign that highlights relevant topics for people
managers specific to that time of year. In 2017, we enhanced
this program with 32 in-person 'Meet, Share and Learn'
sessions at key locations around the world. These three-hour
trainings on challenging topics allow people managers to
connect face to face with peers and role models, exchange
experiences, learn and grow. With these sessions, we offered
training to more than 420 people managers in goal-setting,
talent and performance reviews, and development
conversations.
To support Strategy 2018, DSM collaborated with Duke
Corporate Education to create the DSM Lead & Grow program
for our top 300 executives. Piloted in 2016 and rolled out in
2017, the program encourages our leadership to think and act
differently, fully understand macro-economic trends, use
creative and dilemma solving techniques to address
roadblocks, and engage and develop our best talent.Developing and managing our talent
Talent acquisition
In 2017, DSM continued to strengthen the Global Talent
Acquisition organization, including some external hires in our
own regional recruitment teams, and global functional
expertise groups working around the world. Standardized
processes and systems were implemented and a focus on
emerging technologies has dramatically reduced DSM's
reliance on external agencies. Our regional recruitment teams
have closed more than 1,000 recruitments while reducing time
to hire and focusing on quality hiring in line with our desire for
diversity, inclusion and learning agility. Further social media
outreach allowed us to become more proactive through
dedicated campaigns, such as the campaign that featured
some of our senior female leaders and helped build awareness
of gender balance at DSM.
Talent management
In 2017, the new talent management approach implemented
in 2016 was further leveraged and we were able to see positive
progress in the key areas of identifying and developing future
talent, strengthening succession for leadership positions, and
upgrading our overall talent pipeline.
Identifying and developing future talent
One of the 2016 action points was to identify a broader pool
of emerging leaders — early career talent who could be
stretched into faster career development. Thanks to a
modified approach, in 2017 we were able to define a deeper,
more diverse pool of talents, almost doubled in size, and better
representing our businesses, geographies and job levels.
Within our senior talent group, we were glad to see retention
rates above 80%, as well as very good career movements,
including some cross-business shifts, which are key to helping
us develop broader senior leaders. Going forward, we will
continue to focus on career development, an area where we
have not yet seen the acceleration we expect despite our
progress, and where our Engagement Survey results still show
frustration among the wider employee group.
Strengthening succession for leadership positions
Overall succession strength for our business and functional
leadership teams has improved. A fewer number of positions
show significant gaps. However, focus on this topic will
continue throughout 2018, particularly considering the growth
objectives we have for our businesses going forward.
Regarding the DSM Leadership team, clear efforts were made
to accelerate the development of the talent identified for these
positions. All of them went through an executive development
assessment and more than two-thirds of the identified
employees took a developmental role in 2017.
Upgrading our overall talent pipeline
Overall actions were taken to continuously upgrade our talent
pipeline, through a good inflow of new hires and internal
promotions, bringing increased breadth and diversity, as wellReport by the Managing Board — People
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  39 www.dsm.comas careful management of underperformers. In 2018, we
intend to initiate specific intake programs at junior and seniorlevels to accelerate our progress in this area.
Accountability for performance
Accountability for performance plays an important role inachieving DSM's Strategy 2018. Over 13,000 employees haveaccess to the digital evaluation tool for performance reviews.All other employees participate in performance evaluations onpaper or with other local systems. Our approach to target-setting focuses on 'Fewer, Bigger, Better Goals' that aremeasurable, relevant and challenging. In 2017, thedevelopment plan was added to the performance review tolink achievements, experiences and key learnings to futuredevelopment activities.
Total rewards
DSM continued with the Total Rewards Strategy in 2017. Thisstrategy supports business objectives with monetary and non-monetary rewards and is the reference for compensation andbenefits plans across the organization. It is designed to:
- Pay for performance that supports business objectives;
- Help attract, engage and retain the right employees and
reinforce desired behavior;
- Ensure consistency and fairness in our reward programs
across employee segments and geographies; and
- Optimize and sustain DSM's investments in talent.
We took steps in 2017 to align and standardize salary
structures on a global scale based upon the Total RewardsStrategy. This included rolling out a more streamlinedapproach to benchmarking. DSM now has a betterunderstanding of competing employers and we can set targetpay levels that drive performance across all areas andgeographies. We also implemented a new global technologyplatform for a unified approach to salary adjustments.Together, these steps have given us a more consistentexternal-facing approach for better competitiveness andstrengthened internal equity (comparable pay for comparablejob levels).
New organizational and operating model
DSM continued to implement the new organizational andoperating model as part of Strategy 2018. This focuses oncreating a more agile and cost-effective organization. It allowsDSM's businesses to focus on growth and leverages thesupport functions on a global level. The program has deliveredthe targeted benefits contributing to the total cost savings ofabout € 195 million (the high end of the targeted range) and a
reduction of approximately 950 FTEs in staff and supportfunctions (both against the baseline of 2014). About 55% ofthese were in the Netherlands. See also 'Strategy 2018' onpage 18.Good progress was made in implementing the new operatingmodels for the various support functions, enabling them todeliver better service at lower cost. The Finance, IT andPurchasing shared services were integrated in the new DSMshared services organization with a global service center inIndia and a satellite in China. People & Organization followedat the end of 2017.
Additional efforts were made in internal communication
concerning organizational change and company culture. Morethan 60 two-day workshops were organized for the employeesin all support functions. These were aimed at creating a betterunderstanding of the new operating model and encouragingthe mindset and behavior necessary to make the neworganizational set-up a success and to support DSM'sambitions.
DSM provides fair severance compensation and supports
redundant employees in their search for new employment. Weapply a clear, objective and transparent process indetermining which positions and employees are, regrettably,impacted. We align with employee representation bodieswhere applicable and we actively engage with works councils.
ONE DSM Culture Agenda
The ONE DSM Culture Agenda aims to support thecompany's strategic objectives and to equip employees torespond to the needs of an ever-changing world.
External 
Orientation
Inclusion & Diversity Collaboration with 
Speed and TrustAccountability 
for Performance
(and Learning)
In 2017, we evaluated the current state of our culture agenda
through interviews with more than 50 leaders and 100 talentsacross the world to get a better understanding on whereemphasis is required.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  40 www.dsm.comIn the area of 'External Orientation', we have intensified our
focus on customer requirements and best practices in the
markets. We collect insights across business groups and use
these to become more customer-facing. Regarding
'Collaboration with Speed', changes to our target operating
model improved our capability to leverage across business
groups. The areas of 'Accountability for Performance' and
'Inclusion & Diversity' are discussed elsewhere in this chapter.
The Managing Board supports and drives these values
through leading by example.
Continuous improvement in operations
One of the ways in which we drive organizational performance
is by fostering a culture of continuous improvement across
manufacturing sites and supply chain environments. This
mindset is driven by the DSM Integral Continuous
Improvement (DICI) journey, which is currently running in
approximately 65% of DSM's Manufacturing and Supply
Chain organizations. The premix locations and some recent
acquisitions are currently excluded from the DICI scope.
We focus on empowering our people so they can make the
many small improvements that can have a significant impact
on operations and on our employee engagement. This journey
is being executed together as ONE DSM, which enables us to
share and learn across sites and businesses much faster than
before.
In Pune (India), the DICI journey has played a role in
establishing a self-propelling continuous improvement culture.
We empower shop floor operators to set standards, identify
deviations and initiate their own problem solving. By working
with local leadership, who coach and facilitate this process,
we have achieved increased output and a significant step up
in Safety, Health and Environment results.
The local team in Lalden (Switzerland) observed that
changeover time was causing considerable performance
issues. To address this, the team defined a new standard way
of working and agreed on an ambitious target of 40% time
reduction for changeovers. Times were measured and
published. The target was achieved within a few changeover
cycles. This improvement required no investment and resulted
in an increase in production volume. This delivered an annual
cost benefit of CHF 600,000.
Responsible business practices
International Labour Standards
DSM applies the International Labour Standards of the ILO.
DSM respects the role of works councils and collective
bargaining, and works with these groups in the countries and
regions in which they are present. We develop social and
severance programs in the event of significant reorganizations,
such as in our current reorganization (see 'New organizational
and operating model' in this chapter). DSM promotes
employee empowerment and human rights protection andmaintains dialogues with employees and representative
bodies to enable this.
Human rights
With our mission to "create brighter lives for people today and
generations to come", DSM believes that respecting human
rights is fundamental to delivering a more sustainable society.
The basic rights and freedoms to which all people are entitled
should be understood, respected and promoted by
companies as a cornerstone of being a socially responsible
business.
DSM has a longstanding commitment to international
declarations and instruments to safeguard them. These
include:
-
the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights;
- the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights
(the Ruggie Framework);
- the ILO International Labour Standards; and
- the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.
We have been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since
2007.
DSM's commitment to human rights is defined in our position
paper on the company website. The discussions around the
development of our Human Rights Policy help embed the
responsibility to respect human rights into the programs,
policies and daily operations of all business functions and
regions. DSM's global whistleblower policy (DSM Alert) is in
place so employees and external stakeholders can report any
perceived violations of human rights as well as violations of
laws and regulations. DSM has mapped the potential human
rights impacts of the company's business activities through a
global risk assessment. This assessment has shown that the
categories of human rights most relevant and applicable to
DSM are employees' working conditions, our supply chain and
compensation. We conduct regular reviews of our rewards
framework to make sure it meets the standards of our Total
Rewards Strategy.
Beyond our own operations, potential labor and human rights
impacts are handled through our Supplier Sustainability
Program (SSP). We screen suppliers for potential human rights
issues through sustainability assessments and audits. Read
more about our SSP and how we manage potential human
rights impacts within our supply chain on page 140.Report by the Managing Board — People
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  41 www.dsm.comBright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  42 www.dsm.com
Report by the Managing Board — People
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  43 www.dsm.com
On Earth Day, millions of people around 
the world joined the March for Science to promote science-based public policies including policies related to climate change. Hundreds of DSM employees joined the non-partisan rallies in cities like Washington, +.C. (<:(), Chicago (Illinois, <:(), 4aastricht (5etherlands) and elsewhere.   DSM also signed the letter “We’re Still In”, acknowledging that public and private actors, including the business community, are still committed to achieving the Paris Agreement on climate change. @MIMcBurneyIt’s a HUGE turnout for #marchforscience in Chicago.  @DSM Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  44 www.dsm.com
DSM operates more and more on 
renewable energy. We took another step forward in 2017 when our Sisseln facility in Switzerland broke ground on a new onsite biomass cogeneration plant that will reduce our carbon footprint by 48,000t CO
2eq a year. When the plant 
comes online at the end of 2018, it will produce steam from biomass locally sourced through certiﬁed sustainable forestry. Some of DSM’s employees even rode by bike from the Netherlands to Switzerland to bring the spades for the groundbreaking.@DSMNederland   Four go by bike to :isseln (CH), bringing spades to start building the new Biomass generator #greenpower & heatHeerlen, The NetherlandsReport by the Managing Board — People
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  45 www.dsm.com
Planet
There’s only one Earth
62%Sales of Brighter Living Solutions  
(ECO+ / People+), working toward 65% by 2020
21% 26% 
Purchased 
electricity from renewable sources, up from 8% in 2016.Greenhouse- gas efficiency improvement cumulative versus 2008. Compared to 23% in 2016.Target 40-45% by 2025. At DSM we reduce our environmental impact, enable our customers to do the same, and advocate for climate action. 
3% A-rating
Energy efficiency improvement cumulative versus 2015. Ambition of more than 10% in 2025.CDP Climate and Water. Ranks no.1 Sustainalytics and Gold Class DJSI.Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  46 www.dsm.comSustainability is our core value. It is what makes us different
from other companies and drives our business. We lead by
example, so we look for opportunities to improve our
environmental footprint and the footprint of our supply chain.
We also work closely with customers to deliver goods and
services that are better for people and/or the planet. Our
portfolio of Brighter Living Solutions — products with benefit
to society and/or the environment compared to mainstream
solutions — now accounts for 62% of our net sales.
Our operating network spans more than 100 commercial
production facilities in over 40 countries. The DSM
Responsible Care Plan 2016-2020, an essential part of our
company strategy, describes our environmental targets and
what actions we are taking. Our approach supports the
Sustainable Development Goals, especially SDG 7 (Affordable
and Clean Energy), SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption and
Production) and SDG 13 (Climate Action). These align well with
several topics from our materiality matrix, see 'Materiality' on
page 26:
-
Climate change & renewable energy
- Resource scarcity / Circular & bio-based economy
- Water security
- Biodiversity
- Product Stewardship
For more detailed information about our Planet performance,
see 'Sustainability statements − Planet' on page 138. See
also 'How DSM creates value for its stakeholders' on page
24 and 'Stakeholder Engagement' on page 139.
Climate change & renewable energy
 Aspiration 2017 2016
Greenhouse gas (GHG)    
GHG efficiency
improvement 
cumulative versus 200840-45%
in 2025 26% 23%
GHG emissions scope 
1 + 2 market-based 
(million tons)  1.5 1.4
GHG emissions scope 
1 + 2 location-based 
(million tons)  1.6 1.5
Energy    
Primary energy use (PJ)  23.6 22.6
Energy efficiency
improvement 
cumulative versus 2015> 10% 
in 2025 3% 2%
% Purchased electricity
from renewable sources50% 
in 2025 21% 8%DSM is committed to addressing climate change by reducing
the impact of our operations and our supply chain, enabling
our customers to reduce their impact with solutions for a low-
carbon economy, and advocating climate action.
We reduce our own greenhouse-gas (GHG) emissions by:
-
sourcing more electricity from renewable sources; and
- improving the energy efficiency of our existing operations.
To encourage investments in low-carbon or carbon-free
technologies we use an internal carbon price of € 50/t CO 2eq
in the valuations of large investment projects.
DSM's climate change strategy received an A-rating from CDP
in 2017 for the second year in a row. Still, we continue to
search for improvements. We have reviewed our GHG
emissions within the context of the Paris Agreement. Based
on this review, we are defining new plans so that DSM
continues to be a leader on the topic of climate change.
Scope 1 + 2 GHG emissions
Driven by our business growth, the scope 1 + 2 market-based
GHG emissions increased from 1.4 to 1.5 million tons of
CO2eq in 2017. For definitions, see 'Explanations of some
concepts and ratios' on page 240.
DSM's GHG efficiency improved further from 23% in 2016 to
26% in 2017 versus our 2008 baseline1. Most of the efficiency
improvement results are due to a greater use of electricity from
renewable sources as well as the success of our energy
efficiency program. Changes in GHG calculation
methodologies can positively or negatively influence the
reported performance. In 2017, part of the improvement can
be explained by better insights into how to determine certain
contributions to our GHG emissions. 
Scope 3 GHG emissions
DSM's scope 3 emissions amounted to about 21 million tons
of CO 2eq in 2017, which is around 1 million tons higher than
2016. This figure is based on calculations using global
emission factors, estimates, extrapolations and assumptions.
The main scope 3 categories are purchased goods and
services and end-of-life-treatment of sold products. For both
categories the calculated emissions went up in line with the
higher production volumes and associated spend. The
investments category increased due to an exchange rate
impact. At DSM, we try to sustainably reduce our carbon
footprint across the value chain, for example, through the DSM
Supplier Sustainability Program.
1For 2017, the GHG efficiency improvement is based on market-based
emissions. For the period before 2017, market-based emissions were not
measured, so the GHG efficiency improvement is based on location-based
emissions.Report by the Managing Board — Planet
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  47 www.dsm.comScope 3 GHG Emissions
in CO2eq, million tons
■Purchased goods & services
■Other upstream categories
■End-of-life-treatment■Investments
■Other downstream categories
04812
9.9
0.87.3
1.7
0.25
2016 10.0
0.97.9
1.9
0.25
2017 
We also develop products for the circular and bio-based
economy to further reduce scope 3 emissions. See
'Stakeholder engagement − Suppliers' on page 140 and
Resource scarcity / Circular & bio-based economy elsewhere
in this chapter.
Avoided emissions
Most of the benefits of our Brighter Living Solutions with
environmental benefits happen in the application or use phase.
That means they contribute to avoided emissions downstream
in the value chain.
For example, mooring ropes made with Dyneema® are
approximately 80% lighter than traditional steel cables. They
are also stronger and last longer. Their lighter weight makes
mooring faster, leading to significant fuel and GHG emission
savings over the seven-year lifetime of a rope. Roughly 4,900t
CO2eq are avoided when using a 100m-long mooring rope
made with Dyneema®.
Our solutions for brewing beer reduce the energy required
during the production process, saving money and reducing
GHG emissions. Brewers Clarex® is a stabilization technology
that eliminates the cold stabilization process, and our Brewers
Compass® removes the need for consistently high-quality
malt, replacing it with unmalted alternatives. In 2017, these
two products contributed estimated avoided emissions of
approximately 82,000t CO 2eq.
Energy transition
DSM's energy efficiency improvement is on track, increasing
to 3% in 2017 versus our baseline 2015. The annual
improvement was 0.6%, lower than our aspiration of 1%
improvement per year. Our DSM Nutritional Products site in
Jiangshan (China) impacted the overall result due to a product
portfolio shift toward more energy intensive products and
lower efficiency of the powerplant. Exceptionally, we ran thesite through the hot summer period at high production
capacity to build up stock for a planned turnaround in 2018,
which led to an increased use of energy.
In 2017, we continued our energy efficiency program to help
reduce emissions and energy costs. The program has a
dedicated annual investment budget to support those projects
that have a longer payback period than typical business
projects. In 2017, there were about 30 energy efficiency
projects. Typical projects were LED lighting, steam trap
improvements and better motor efficiency. These should
deliver approximately 90TJ energy savings and 6,200t CO 2eq
reduction per year. A more ambitious energy efficiency
program was developed and approved for 2018.
Renewable energy
DSM is a member of the Climate Group's RE100 — leading
companies that have committed to sourcing 100% of their
electricity from renewable sources at the earliest possible
opportunity. Our commitment is to source 50% of our
electricity from renewable sources by 2025 and 100% at the
earliest possible opportunity.
We are making excellent progress against our intermediate
target. Purchased electricity from renewable sources
increased from 8% in 2016 to 21% in 2017. Much of this
progress is the result of DSM Nutritional Products' Swiss
manufacturing sites, which source approximately 50%
electricity from renewable sources as of 2017, and two new
Power Purchase Agreements to participate in two wind parks,
one in the US and one in the Netherlands. When fully
constructed, the participation in the US will deliver an
estimated 125 GWh of wind power to DSM. The Windpark
Bouwdokken together with the earlier contracted Windpark
Krammer will, once fully operational, deliver approximately
105 GWh. Additionally, we signed a contract which will bring
the share of purchased electricity from renewable sources for
the Netherlands to 100% in 2018.
We also look for opportunities to replace fossil fuels used in
our own processes. The biomass plant at our DSM Nutritional
Products site in Sisseln (Switzerland), which is currently under
construction, is the first major success in this area so far. The
project was initiated to avoid further investment in the life time
extension of DNP's natural gas-fired cogeneration plant dating
from the 1960s-1970s. To address this, a partnership has
been developed with ENGIE and EWZ that will build, own,
operate and maintain the biomass cogeneration plant.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  48 www.dsm.comOther emissions to air
 Aspiration 2017 2016
Air emissions efficiency
improvement versus
201540% by
2020 41% 25%
Air emissions (x 1,000
tons)    
- VOC  6.6 8.9
- NO x  0.7 0.8
- SO 2  0.28 0.33
Our continuous improvements, especially at our
manufacturing sites, helped to enhance our air emission
efficiency by 21% in 2017 compared to 2016 and by 41%
versus our baseline of 2015. Especially for our sites in China,
reducing air emissions is a key topic. As a result, they delivered
most of the reported improvement. Although we achieved the
target set forth in our Responsible Care Plan 2015-2020, we
initiated several new projects to move to closed systems that
prevent emissions, and to install off-gas treatment systems in
2018 to further reduce VOC emissions.
x“
Climate change is both a
challenge and an incredible
business opportunity. It's
time to seize that opportunity
— to create a new low-
carbon economy and leave
our children and
grandchildren a healthy
planet.  ”
Feike Sijbesma, CEO/Chairman Managing Board
Resource scarcity / Circular & bio-based economy
With the rapid growth of the world's population, the total
demand for resources is expected to reach 130 billion tons by
2050 according to Accenture. That is more than 400% over-
use of the earth's total capacity. At DSM, we are committed
to securing the future availability of natural resources and
unlocking more value from the limited resources we have.
The circular economy is one that is "restorative and
regenerative by design, and aims to keep products,components, and materials at their highest utility and value at
all times" (Ellen MacArthur Foundation) through the large-scale
recovery and re-use of materials.
 Aspiration 2017 2016
Renewable raw materials    
Renewable raw materials  15.4% 16.5%
Waste    
Waste recycled80-90% 
in 2020 84% 83%
Non-hazardous waste (kt)    
- Recovered  104 113
- Incineration1 12 11
- Landfill  20 18
Hazardous waste (kt)    
- Recovered  40 33
- Incineration1 23 22
- Landfill  3 1
1Includes incineration with and without heat recovery.
The bio-based economy is one that obtains its raw materials
from nature (biomass) to produce materials, chemicals, energy
and fuel.
For DSM, these concepts are mutually reinforcing and provide
opportunities for increased productivity, improved
sustainability and innovation. We adopt a multi-faceted value
chain approach, and try to embed these concepts into our
sourcing, operations, innovation and portfolio, and to advance
'closed-loop' solutions via partnerships.
Collect & disassemble productsCircular economy
Renewable
ener
gy
Biosphere 
(decomposition 
& enrichment)Technosphere
(recycle & re-use)
Produce & assem
ble productsReport by the Managing Board — Planet
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  49 www.dsm.comWe focus on exploring ways to:
-
reduce the use of critical resources;
- replace scarce, hazardous, and potentially harmful
resources;
- extend the lifetime of products;
- enable recycling and redesign with smart materials; and
- recover waste streams.
Renewable raw materials
Sustainable resources are essential to securing resource
availability into the future and reducing GHGs by putting
carbon back 'in the loop'. The renewable raw materials we use
include waste from the agricultural industry, yeasts and
enzymes, carbohydrates, and natural oils and acids. In 2017,
the share of spend on renewable raw materials decreased to
15.4% versus 16.5% in 2016. This was despite an overall
increase in the absolute amount. For more on sustainable
biomass, see our position paper on the company website.
One of our applications for renewable raw materials is
Decovery®, our novel plant-based resin technology platform
for high-performance paints, coatings and inks. This platform
uses a variety of renewable building blocks such as sugars,
starches, natural oils and materials from trees and agricultural
waste that do not compete with the food chain to produce
high-performance resins, typically comprising 30-50% bio-
based content. Sigma Air Pure, a bio-based wall paint based
on Decovery®, also enhances the indoor air climate by
reducing up to 70% of the formaldehyde in indoor air.
Waste
One aspect of enabling the circular economy involves reducing
and recovering waste. DSM recycles as much as possible.
Landfilling is our last resort.
Our definition of waste recycled is the percentage of total
waste related to normal operations that is recycled or, if this is
not possible, incinerated off site with heat recovery. In 2017,
84% of DSM's waste was recycled, which is 1% up compared
to 2016. Maintaining the recycling performance was a
challenge given the fact that we lost a large waste stream
recovery outlet from DSM Nutritional Products' Dalry site
(United Kingdom) for use in land restoration. The loss was
compensated by various new recycling opportunities that
have been successfully implemented.
For example, at DSM Nutritional Products in Mairinque (Brazil)
we found an excellent opportunity to recover material.
Extensive analysis proved that a certain waste stream, which
until now had been landfilled, contains ideal nutrients for
organic compost which can be used as plant fertilizer. We
expect this to reduce our landfill by an estimated 900 tons per
year.Water security
Managing our water utilization in a sustainable way is an
important part of DSM's daily operations. We have supported
the UN CEO Water Mandate since 2011. In 2017, we received
an A-rating from CDP for our water governance and
management strategy.
 Aspiration 2017 2016
Sustainable water
management    
- Water risk
assessments
completed90% 
in 2020 100% 67%
- Water risk assessment
mitigating actions  in
progress  
- Water consumption
(million m3)  23 22
- Water use (million m3)  114 104
Emissions to water    
- COD (kt)  2.5 2.4
We believe that water risks are local by nature, so we focus on
local water risk assessments and thorough follow-up. In 2017,
we updated our water risk assessment methodology to the
latest standards. We incorporated the screening for water
stress using 'WRI Aqueduct' and 'WWF-DEG Water Risk
Filter' to determine which DSM sites are in areas of water
stress and carried out the new updated water risk assessment
at all relevant sites. The main identified water risks are related
to water quality, changing local regulations and limitations in
local infrastructure. The risk exposure to water scarcity has
been found as very limited in the regions where we operate.
Mitigation actions are currently being defined and will be
followed up in the coming period 2018-2020.
"Water security continues to be a concern for the world's
growing population, with many areas already under
stress of scarcity or pollution, or areas that suffer damage
from natural disasters. We treat water security as a
material topic with a management approach that focuses
on water at the local level. Via this report, we report our
progress on water security toward the UN Global
Compact CEO Water Mandate."
Feike Sijbesma, CEO/Chairman Managing Board
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  50 www.dsm.comTo strengthen our water management in the coming years, a
new corporate water management standard was defined in
line with the Alliance for Water Stewardship standard and the
UN Global Compact CEO Water Mandate. This will be rolled
out at our sites in water-stressed areas and other selected
facilities.
Compared to 2016, water consumption increased to 23
million m3. The increase was driven by higher production
volumes at various manufacturing sites.
DSM's water pollution reduction programs aim to reduce total
water pollution, mainly through reductions in Chemical Oxygen
Demand (COD). Total COD increased slightly from 2.4kt in
2016 to 2.5kt in 2017. Waste water treatment improvement
projects executed at the DSM Nutritional Products sites in
Grenzach (Germany) and Sisseln (Switzerland) successfully
lowered their COD emissions. However, various
manufacturing sites reported higher COD emissions due to
higher production volumes that offset the achieved
improvements.
Biodiversity
 2017 2016
Sites near high biodiversity 61% 60%
We identify and monitor protected areas near our sites and our
impact on them. Sixty-one percent of our sites have been
identified as being located in, or adjacent to, areas of high
biodiversity value. In all cases, the relevant production sites
operate within applicable limits as defined by local authorities.
See also 'Stakeholder engagement' on page 
139 and DSM's
position paper on Biodiversity on the company website.
Product Stewardship
An important pillar within our sustainability and SHE strategy
is Product Stewardship. This is defined as the responsibility to
control and minimize all possible safety risks and adverse
effects on human or animal health and on the environment that
could be caused by (the substances present in) our products
throughout the value chain.
DSM's Global Product Stewardship Network continues to
develop our position regarding Substances of (Very) High
Concern. We strive to phase out these compounds from our
portfolio. This excludes substances that are defined as
'essential to life' (in small quantities) and therefore cannot yet
be substituted. We also recognize that certain ingredients are
required for functionalities for which no feasible alternatives are
currently available. In all cases, we ensure that scientific and
risk-based controls are in place.Our coating resin NeoPac™ PU-580 is an example of how
DSM addresses Product Stewardship. The quality of air in a
freshly painted room is affected by components that are
emitted from paints. DSM Resins & Functional Materials
developed a breakthrough technology to replace one of the
toxic substances in paints and coatings. The original
substance is volatile and leads to health problems if it comes
into contact with skin or the respiratory system. The market
has long needed a replacement, but the search always failed
due to the inadequate performance of available alternatives.
Based on a novel mechanism, DSM developed a next-
generation binder which meets all the requirements for
labeling, volatile organic compounds, and indoor air quality
without compromising on performance. This development
was commercialized as NeoPac™ PU-580 early in 2017.Report by the Managing Board — Planet
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  51 www.dsm.comProceeds from the sale of 
Patheon over recent years€ 2 billionOrganic sales growth up from 2016
Capital expenditure
(cash-based), up from € 475 (in millions)+9%
Higher-margin innovation sales, meeting our 20% ambition21%
€ 546ROCE growth (in bps)
versus 2016, to 12.3%Adjusted EBITDA growth
versus 2016, to € 1,445 million+15% +190
€Profit
Delivering profitable growth
Total net profit including 
gain on Patheon disposal of € 1,250 up from € 629 (in millions) € 1,781
Proposed dividend per ordinary share for 2017
1, 
up from € 1.75 for 2016 € 1.85
1Subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders.Sales to high-growth economies, providing a well-balanced geographical spread in line with our aspiration44%Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  52 www.dsm.comOverall financial results
Within the Profit dimension of DSM's Triple P approach, DSM
aims to deliver a sustainable financial return. This ensures
business continuity and allows the company to grow, while at
the same time providing shareholders the opportunity to invest
in a company whose purpose drives sustainable above-
market growth at higher returns.
We established and implemented our three-year strategic plan
for the period 2016-2018 called Strategy 2018: Driving
Profitable Growth with two headline financial targets: high
single-digit percentage annual Adjusted EBITDA2 growth and
high double-digit basis point annual ROCE growth. To deliver
on these targets, we defined clear actions, including outpacing
market growth, cost reduction and efficiency improvements to
deliver € 
250-300 million in cost savings versus the 2014
baseline, and making a continuous push for consistent
improvements in capital efficiency.
In support of our targets, we also adjusted our global
organizational and operating model to create a more agile,
commercially focused and cost-efficient company. We
refrained from large acquisitions and focused instead on
delivering value from the current portfolio and extracting value
from the monetization of our joint venture partnerships.
This chapter includes an overview of the key financial metrics
of the company and our performance in 2017.
In 2017, DSM delivered strong financial results again as we
significantly exceeded our financial targets. Our focus on
driving above-market sales growth, while relentlessly pursuing
cost and efficiency improvement initiatives as well as
maintaining capital discipline, continued to deliver strong
results in both Nutrition and Materials.
DSM reported net sales of € 8,632 million, an increase of 9%
versus 2016. Group organic sales growth was 9%, mainly
driven by a strong volume growth of 7%, clearly above market.
All businesses, both in Nutrition and Materials, contributed well
to this growth. Prices were overall slightly up, partly offset by
somewhat weaker currencies.
Adjusted EBITDA grew by an impressive 15% to € 1,445
million, far ahead of the high single-digit growth target we
originally set with Strategy 2018. Strong EBITDA growth in the
business was also supported by our cost-reduction and
efficiency improvement programs, which progressed as
planned and are on track to deliver the targeted benefits. DSM
achieved run-rate cumulative gross cost savings of about
€ 195 million by the end of 2017. In the first two years of
Strategy 2018, we have increased our Adjusted EBITDA by €
2In presenting and discussing DSM's financial position, operating results and
cashflows, DSM uses certain Alternative performance measures (APMs) not
defined by IFRS. These APMs are used because they are an important
measure of DSM's business development and DSM's management
performance. A full reconciliation of IFRS performance measures to the APMs
is given in the 'Alternative performance measures' on page 165.370 million or 34%. Overall Adjusted EBITDA margin for 2017
was 16.7%, an increase of 80 basis points versus the 15.9%
of 2016.
Income statement
x € million 2017 2016 Change
    
Net sales 8,632 7,920 9%
    
Adjusted EBITDA 1,445 1,262 15%
EBITDA 1,348 1,146 18%
    
Adjusted operating
profit 957 791 21%
Operating profit 846 657 29%
    
Adjusted net profit 706 520 36%
    
APM adjustments 1,075 109  
    
Net profit 1,781 629 183%
Net profit attributable to
equity holders of
Koninklijke DSM N.V. 1,769 621 185%
    
ROCE (in %) 12.3 10.4  
Adjusted EBITDA margin,
(in %) 16.7 15.9  
Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) was also well ahead of
target, up 190 basis points to 12.3% in 2017 versus 10.4% in
2016. Since the kick-off of our successful Strategy 2018,
ROCE is up 470 basis points versus end of 2015.
Capital efficiency is a key driver of cash generation. One of our
key focus areas continued to be the improvement in our
working capital as percentage of total sales. At the end of
2017, total working capital was 17.2%, compared to 18.4%
end of 2016 and clearly better than our aspiration of 'below
20%'.
Innovation plays an important role in driving both top-line and
bottom-line growth. With 21% innovation sales in 2017, which
we define as sales from products and solutions introduced in
the last five years, we are delivering against our ambitious
aspiration of 20%. In 2017, DSM also made progress on
promising innovation projects that could have a wider societal
impact and drive future growth. These include the Clean Cow
project, the Green Ocean partnership (now called Veramaris),
Stevia and Niaga®.Report by the Managing Board — Profit
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  53 www.dsm.comDuring 2017, we strengthened our portfolio through smaller
acquisitions, including Twilmij (Dutch feed premix company),
UP4® brand (probiotics for consumer health), Inner Mongolia
Rainbow Biotechnology (majority stake in hydrocolloid
solutions for human nutrition), BioCare (probiotics for
consumer health), Sunshine (solar photovoltaic backsheet
technology) and Amyris' production facility in Brazil (for bio-
based farnesene). Furthermore, DSM made an equity
investment in Amyris, Inc. (USA) and entered into a
development arrangement for bio-based nutritional
ingredients.
During the year, DSM also extracted significant value with the
sale of the remaining stake in Patheon to Thermo Fisher
Scientific Inc., bringing the total cash proceeds from the exit
from our former pharma custom manufacturing activities to
approximately € 
2 billion over the years. The remaining two
partnerships, DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals and
ChemicaInvest, both showed solid results in 2017.
Net sales and Adjusted EBITDA
At € 8,632 million, net sales in 2017 were 9% higher than in
2016 (€ 7,920 million). Organic growth was 9%, driven by both
Nutrition and Materials. Volume development accounted for a
7% increase, while price/mix had a 2% positive effect ongrowth compared to 2016. Exchange rate fluctuations had a
negative impact of 1%, balancing out a 1% positive effect from
acquisitions and consolidations.
Sales growth was strong among all regions, with favorable
high-single digit growth in Western Europe as well as in North
and Latin America. We performed well in Brazil, despite the
disruption caused by the meat scandal that impacted the
market for beef and poultry exports, and against a backdrop
of economic uncertainty.
Double-digit sales growth was achieved in China, India and
Eastern Europe. All high-growth economies together currently
represent 44% of DSM's sales (45% when Africa is included),
which is in line with 2016. The share of sales in these
economies as a proportion of DSM's total sales gives us a
well-balanced global footprint.
Adjusted EBITDA (Adjusted operating profit before
depreciation and amortization) increased by 15% or € 
183
million, from € 1,262 million in 2016 to € 1,445 million in 2017.
Adjusted EBIT (Adjusted operating profit) rose from € 791
million in 2016 to € 957 million in 2017, up 21%.
 Net sales  Adjusted EBITDA
x € million 2017 2016 % change  2017 2016 % change
DSM 8,632 7,920 9%  1,445 1,262 15%
        
Nutrition 5,579 5,169 8%  1,053 931 13%
Materials 2,825 2,513 12%  488 435 12%
Innovation Center 169 167 1%  9 1  
Corporate Activities 59 71   (105) (105)  
Net sales bridge 2017
x € million
2016 Volume Price/mix FX Other 20178,632
7,920-1% 1%
7%2%
Adjusted EBITDA margin
in %
■2016 ■2017
05101520
18.018.9
Nutrition 17.3 17.3
Materials  15.916.7
Total  
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  54 www.dsm.comNet sales by destination
in %
■Netherlands
■Rest of Western Europe
■Eastern Europe
■North America
■Latin America■China
■India
■Japan
■Rest of Asia
■Rest of the world
4
24
7
22121323103
2017 4
25
6
23121223103
2016 
Net sales by business segment
in %
■Nutrition
■Materials■Innovation Center
■Corporate Activities
643321
2017 
653221
2016 Net sales by origin
in %
■Netherlands
■Rest of Western Europe
■Eastern Europe
■North America
■Latin America■China
■India
■Japan
■Rest of Asia
■Rest of the world
25
30
2178121131
2017 25
312187111131
2016 
Net sales by end-use market
in %
■Food & Beverages
■Dietary Supplements
■Early Life Nutrition
■Personal Care
■Animal Nutrition■Metal/building & construction
■Automotive/transport
■Electrical/electronics
■Packaging
■Other
14
10
6
4
32675610
2017 15
10
6
4
31575610
2016 
Net profit
Net profit attributable to equity holders of DSM increased by € 1,148 million to € 1,769 million. This increase was mainly a result of
the higher Adjusted EBITDA (up € 
183 million) and the sale of DSM's share in Patheon (€ 1,250 million) and other differences in
APM adjustments (-€ 175 million), see below. Expressed per ordinary share, net earnings amounted to € 10.07 in 2017
(2016: € 3.52).
Financial income and expense decreased by € 29 million year over year to € 104 million mainly caused by higher results on
derivatives and on other participating interests.
The reported effective tax rate over Adjusted taxable result 2017 was 16.8% (2016: 18.3%). This decrease was mainly caused by
a one-time benefit from the US tax reform.
Adjustments made in arriving at DSM's Alternative performance measures (APM adjustments)
Total APM adjustments for the full year amounted to a profit of € 1,075 million, consisting of a profit regarding associates and joint
ventures of € 1,158 million (mainly due to the gain of € 1,250 million on the sale of the shares of Patheon N.V. and impairments at
associated companies of € 95 million), offset by € 60 million in restructuring costs related to the ongoing cost-reduction programs,
€ 26 million relating to demolition, site closure and relocation cost, € 14 million of impairments and € 11 million of acquisition/
divestment-related and other costs, with a tax benefit of € 28 million.
 Report by the Managing Board — Profit
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  55 www.dsm.comCash flow statement
x € million 2017 2016
   
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 604 665
   
Cash flow provided by operating activities 996 1,018
   
Cash from / (used in) investing activities 689 (1,194)
   
Cash from / (used in) financing activities (1,344) 113
   
Effect of exchange differences (46) 2
   
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 899 604
Cash flow provided by operating activities consists of the EBITDA for the year (€ 1,348 million) less various cash-out items including
income tax of € 
66 million and defined benefit plans of € 61 million, and changes in working capital of € 237 million. Our focus on
cash flow resulted in a full-year operating cash flow of € 996 million, which is slightly below the comparative period in 2016, fully
due to operating working capital (OWC) development as a result of higher net sales. See also 'Consolidated financial statements'
on page 151.
The cash from investing activities included the sale of the shares of Patheon N.V. (€ 1,535 million), partly offset by capital
expenditures (€ 547 million) and various acquisitions (€ 242 million).
The cash used in financing activities consisted mainly of the repayment of long-term loans (€ 818 million), dividend paid (€ 200
million), interest paid (€ 135 million) and repurchase of shares (€ 297 million).
For the full cash flow statement, see 'Consolidated cash flow statement' (Note 26) on page 162.
Balance sheet
The balance sheet total (total assets) reached € 12.8 billion at year-end (2016: € 13.0 billion). Equity increased by € 885 million
compared to the position at the end of 2016. This increase was mainly due to the result on the sale of the shares of Patheon N.V.
of € 1,250 million, offset mainly by net foreign exchange differences of € 637 million. Equity as a percentage of total assets increased
from 48% to 55%.
Compared to year-end 2016, net debt decreased by € 1,328 million to € 742 million. The gearing at year-end was 10%, a significant
decrease compared to 25% at year-end 2016.
Capital expenditure on intangible assets and property, plant and equipment amounted to € 
586 million in 2017 (€ 546 million on a
cash basis), which was 17% higher than the level of amortization and depreciation in support of the high organic growth.
Total working capital amounted to € 1,499 million compared to € 1,481 million at year-end 2016, which represents 17.2% as a
percentage of annualized fourth quarter 2017 sales (2016: 18.4%), comfortably below our aspiration of 20%. Cash-wise, the OWC
increased by € 195 million related to organic growth. In absolute terms OWC was stable in 2017, as the increase of OWC related
to organic growth (9%) was largely compensated by the weakening of mainly USD and CHF. The OWC percentage improved from
23.9% at year-end 2016 to 22.3% of annualized sales at year-end 2017.
Cash and cash equivalents came to € 899 million at the end of the year; including current investments, this came to € 1,853 million
(2016: € 1,548 million). Next to the regular cash flow, this increase was mainly attributable to the sale of the shares of Patheon N.V.
(€ 1,535 million), partly offset by the repayment of long-term loans (€ 818 million) and the various acquisitions (€ 242 million).
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  56 www.dsm.comBalance sheet profile
 2017 2016
 x € million in % x € million in %
     
Intangible assets 3,058 24 3,188 24
Property, plant and equipment 3,313 26 3,325 26
Other non-current assets 999 8 1,404 11
Cash and cash equivalents 899 7 604 5
Other current assets 4,533 35 4,437 34
     
Total assets 12,802 100 12,958 100
     
Equity 7,065 55 6,180 48
Provisions 204 2 182 1
Other non-current liabilities 3,358 26 3,492 27
Other current liabilities 2,175 17 3,104 24
     
Total equity and liabilities 12,802 100 12,958 100
x“ It is great to see how much
impact our growth initiatives,
as well as our cost-saving
and efficiency improvement
programs, have had since
2015. In 2018 we’ll focus on
anchoring the new
organization and delivering
the full benefits.  ”
Geraldine Matchett, CFOOutlook 2018
DSM expects to deliver full-year 2018 results above the targets
set in Strategy 2018, with an Adjusted EBITDA growth
somewhat up from high single-digit to double-digit and a
ROCE growth above 100 basis points. The expected
substantial negative foreign exchange effects, based on
current rates, will be more than offset by a positive pricing
environment in Nutrition, part of which is temporary in nature
and expected to be heavily weighted towards the first half of
the year.Report by the Managing Board — Profit
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  57 www.dsm.comKey business figures at a glance
DSM's activities are grouped in three clusters: Nutrition, Materials and Innovation Center. We report separately on Corporate
Activities. Results presented in this section (and elsewhere in this Report) relate to consolidated activities only (therefore non-
consolidated partnerships are excluded).
Net sales
x € million 2017 2016
   
Nutrition 5,579 5,169
Materials 2,825 2,513
Innovation Center 169 167
Corporate Activities 59 71
   
Total 8,632 7,920
Adjusted EBITDA
x € million 2017 2016
   
Nutrition 1,053 931
Materials 488 435
Innovation Center 9 1
Corporate Activities (105) (105)
   
Total 1,445 1,262
Adjusted EBITDA margin
in % 2017 2016
   
Nutrition 18.9 18.0
Materials 17.3 17.3
   
Total 16.7 15.9
 Adjusted operating profit (EBIT)
x € million 2017 2016
   
Nutrition 770 645
Materials 361 311
Innovation Center (30) (24)
Corporate Activities (144) (141)
   
Total 957 791
Capital employed at 31 December
x € million 2017 2016
   
Nutrition 5,420 5,537
Materials 1,786 1,807
Innovation Center 562 576
Corporate Activities (2) (31)
   
Total 7,766 7,889
ROCE
in % 2017 2016
   
Nutrition 14.1 12.0
Materials 20.0 17.6
   
Total 12.3 10.4
  
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  58 www.dsm.comCapital expenditure
x € million 2017 2016
   
Nutrition 407 331
Materials 124 106
Innovation Center 43 32
Corporate Activities 12 16
   
Total, accounting based 586 485
   
Non-cash items (39) (9)
Customer funding (1) (1)
   
Total, cash based 546 475
R&D expenditure (including associated IP expenditure)
 x € million as % of net sales
 2017 2016 2017 2016
     
Nutrition 219 205 3.9 4.0
Materials 130 124 4.6 4.9
Innovation Center 75 75 44.4 44.9
Corporate Activities 20 22 33.9 31.0
     
Total 444 426 5.1 5.4
Workforce at 31 December
headcount 2017 2016
   
Nutrition 13,676 13,260
Materials 4,635 4,460
Innovation Center 685 619
Corporate Activities 2,058 2,447
   
Total 21,054 20,786Report by the Managing Board — Profit
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  59 www.dsm.comBright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  60 www.dsm.com
Report by the Managing Board — Profit
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  61 www.dsm.com
Eggs are an excellent source of nutrition 
because they are packed with protein and vitamins. DSM helps farmers around the world produce high-quality eggs in a more sustainable way thanks to our nutritional expertise and range of vitamins, carotenoids, enzymes and eubiotics. Healthy hens produce eggs with a strong shell, an attractive yolk and higher nutrient content.@h.sobueIt was delicious #ramennoodle2017Japan        
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  62 www.dsm.com
Culturelle® from DSM’s i-Health brand of 
probiotics became the bestselling probiotic 
supplement in the US in 2016 and, in 2017, the number one in the world. An example of the way DSM is increasingly close to consumers, Culturelle
® supports 
gut health, a healthy immune system and energy
1. We want people to feel their best 
and have a healthy lifestyle. @FollowTheLita  No more “so-called” energy products for me! @Culturelle Pro-Well
® gives me sustained 
energy & is packed with vitamins!New York | Los Angeles, USA 
1  These statements have not been evaluated 
by the US Food and Drug Administration. 
This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease.Report by the Managing Board — Profit
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  63 www.dsm.com
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  64 www.dsm.com
Report by the Managing Board — Profit
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  65 www.dsm.com
Roughly two-thirds of Australians will be 
diagnosed with skin cancer by the time they are 70 and about half of all Americans will develop it by the age of 65. +:4 oќers the broadest range of <= ﬁlters in the world and we’re promoting sun protection to help people stay healthy. @snreisewelt #australia2017 #beach #travel Cape 3e Grand 5ational Park, Australia
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  66 www.dsm.com
People want to be healthy and they want 
to enQoy what they eat. (t +:4, we oќ  er a range of solutions for better nutrition. For example, +:4’s new Prevent(:e
® 
helps stop the formation of acrylamide in foods like bread. When bread is baked at high temperatures acrylamide can form. Acrylamide is a known carcinogen. @thewholefooddiary  Countryside bound with an oatmilk decaf cappuccino in my @keepcup and a treat ham and gruyere croissant for ClaytonClapham Junction, UK
Report by the Managing Board — Profit
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  67 www.dsm.com
Nutrition
Everyone wants 
to be healthy
DSM is the world’s largest supplier of vitamins, 
carotenoids, nutritional lipids, enzymes and other nutritional ingredients. We supply enough Quali
®-A (vitamin A) to deliver the sufficient 
daily dose to more than 750 million people. Antioxidants like vitamin A are vital to good health and longevity. They benefit eye health, boost immunity and foster cell growth.
Organic sales growth 
up from 2016+8%
Adjusted EBITDA margin up from 18.0% in 201618.9%
Net sales (in millions) up from € 5,169 in 2016€ 5,579#1Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  68 www.dsm.comx € million 2017 2016
   
Net sales:   
DSM Nutritional Products:   
- Animal Nutrition & Health 2,660 2,399
- Human Nutrition & Health 1,939 1,823
- Personal Care & Aroma
Ingredients 353 337
- Other186 74
 5,038 4,633
DSM Food Specialties 541 536
   
Total 5,579 5,169
   
Organic sales growth (in %) 8 5
Adjusted EBITDA 1,053 931
Adjusted operating profit 770 645
Capital expenditure 407 331
Capital employed at 31
December 5,420 5,537
ROCE (in %) 14.1 12.0
Adjusted EBITDA margin (in %) 18.9 18.0
R&D expenditure 219 205
   
Workforce at 31 December
(headcount) 13,676 13,260
1Other covers pharma and custom manufacturing & services activities.
Business
DSM Nutritional Products and DSM Food Specialties form our
Nutrition cluster. This cluster provides solutions for animal
feed, food and beverages, pharmaceuticals, infant nutrition,
dietary supplements and personal care. DSM is positioned in
all steps of the feed and food value chains: the production of
pure active ingredients, their incorporation into sophisticated
forms and the provision of tailored premixes and forward
solutions. Our unique portfolio of products and services is
global and highly diversified, serving customers and other
stakeholders across various end-markets around the world.
More information is available in the DSM Factbook on the
company website.Nutrition cluster performance
Net sales bridge 2017
x € million
2016 Volume Price/mix FX Other 20175,579
5,1697%0% 0%
1%
Nutrition is outperforming the aspirations outlined in Strategy
2018. The business continued strong momentum, clearly
delivering above-market growth with an increasingly higher-
value portfolio of feed and food solutions. The nutrition
improvement programs, covering cost reductions, operational
and sales excellence, continued to underpin ongoing
progress.
Full year 2017 sales increased by 8% organically when
compared to 2016, led by volumes up 7% and prices up 1%.
The successful implementation of the growth initiatives
continued to drive organic growth, both in Animal Nutrition and
Human Nutrition, clearly outpacing market growth.
Full year 2017 Adjusted EBITDA was €
 1,053 million, up 13%
driven by organic sales growth in combination with the impact
of the cost-saving and efficiency improvement programs. This
increase in Adjusted EBITDA equals the very strong 2016,
when Adjusted EBITDA also grew by 13%. The Adjusted
EBITDA margin of 18.9% further improved in 2017 compared
with 18.0% in 2016.
Trends
Pressure on our food systems is increasing because of
population growth, climate change, resource scarcity,
government policies and rising political tensions. DSM is
committed to delivering nutritional solutions that help keep
both people and planet healthy.
Urbanization and higher living standards continue to drive
demand for food that is fresh, convenient, healthy, perceived
as more natural, and sourced in an ethical and sustainable
way. Of course, it also has to be safe. As people have more
disposable income, they look for healthier options, including
food with less added sugar and salt. Generally, the growing
middle classes are also eating more meat (i.e. animal protein).Review of business — Nutrition
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  69 www.dsm.comDSM works with customers and other stakeholders to deliver
more sustainable solutions that have less impact on the
environment, especially in Animal Nutrition & Health. For
example, our enzymes help animals improve digestion and
extract more nutritional value from feed. That way, they still
grow well even when they eat less. As a result, fewer natural
resources, such as land and water, are needed for protein
production.
People around the world are also living longer because of rising
incomes and higher living standards. Aging people have
different nutritional needs than children and other adults. DSM
can offer tailored solutions to support health and well-being at
every stage of life thanks to our expertise in food fortification
and dietary supplementation.
Despite higher living standards around the world and a
growing focus on health, there are still many people who do
not have access to the food and nutrients they need to live to
their full potential. About 800 million people go hungry and two
billion are malnourished. Climate change and geopolitical
tensions that lead to more refugees and migrants are
exacerbating the problem. DSM is committed to ending
hunger and malnutrition. Through our Nutrition Improvement
Program (NIP), we support better nutrition for some of the
world's most vulnerable people, especially mothers and
children in places like Africa, India and areas of southern Asia.
Science shows that good nutrition during the first 1,000 days
of life — from conception to a child's second birthday — is
critical for growth and development. Inadequate nutrition at
this stage has irreversible negative consequences that can last
a lifetime, including reduced cognitive ability. Women of child-
bearing age, as well as pregnant and lactating mothers, need
special support. Fortified foods and supplements can play a
valuable role where available diets are inadequate.
In India, approximately 470 million people suffer from
malnutrition. DSM's Project MANDI (Making A Nutrition
Difference to India) aims to build a socio-commercial business
model that will be able to deliver innovative local product
solutions including fortified food and staple products,
especially rice, as well as vitamin and mineral supplements.
The model also aims to facilitate community education to help
solve the issue of malnutrition in India, especially for children
and pregnant women.
Sustainability & Innovation
Sustainability is one of the key drivers of DSM's Nutrition
cluster. Our nutrition businesses support many of the UN
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), especially SDGs
2, 3, 12 and 13.
At DSM, we are proud of our strategic partnership with the UN
World Food Programme (WFP). We help improve the
nutritional content of the food distributed by WFP. Togetherwith WFP, we also raise awareness of the importance of
nutrition, particularly micronutrients, both for individual health
as well as the foundation for a healthy, economically
successful society. Today, DSM reaches more than 30 million
people each year with improved nutrition through the
partnership. DSM also partners with the UN Children's Fund
(UNICEF) and other organizations around the world to directly
address malnutrition.
In addition to our work on hunger, malnutrition, health and
well-being, DSM's innovations are increasingly focused on
improved sustainability throughout the product lifecycle and
the value it brings to customers and society at large. For
example, in 2017 we continued our work on Project Clean
Cow to develop a feed solution that helps reduce methane
emissions from cows. Methane is a very potent greenhouse
gas that contributes to climate change. Ruminants, such as
cows, are responsible for ~27% of anthropogenic methane
emissions globally. We also made progress on more plant-
based solutions, including Project Green Ocean (see 'Animal
Nutrition & Health' on page 71) and alternatives to animal
protein such as CanolaPRO™ (see 'DSM Business Incubator'
on page 94).
Governments around the world are increasingly focused on
the environmental footprint of domestic industry. In recent
years, China in particular stepped up enforcement of its
environmental regulations, also known as the government's
'Blue Skies' policy. This policy addresses air, soil and water
pollution and sets significantly higher standards, including
higher standards for the many small and medium-sized vitamin
manufacturers. The result is a more level playing field for these
manufacturers versus Western competitors. DSM has been a
very reliable player in the market and able to support
customers through this era of uncertainty, while at the same
time being a frontrunner in compliance. 
Strategy
The Nutrition cluster has unparalleled access to customers
thanks to our global footprint and our ability to customize
formulations for local markets. The cluster is active in more
than 60 countries. Our strategy accelerates growth by
focusing on four key areas:
-
Expanding our core
- Adding new products and solutions
- Expanding in new segments and regions
- New business models
We have been expanding our core by adding new premix
facilities to our global network, including a new animal premix
facility in China as well as the acquisition of Twilmij B.V., a
nutritional feed solution provider in the Netherlands. The
acquisition of BioCare Copenhagen A/S (Denmark) in
December further expanded our offering in human gut health
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  70 www.dsm.comingredients with probiotics, an attractive market segment in
nutritional ingredients.
Another example of our strategy in action is the new products
and solutions we will develop through our cooperation with
Amyris, involving vitamins and other nutritional ingredients.
DSM made an equity investment in Amyris, Inc. in the US in
mid-2017. At the end of the year, we also acquired Amyris'
production facility in Brazil and intellectual property related to
farnesene, a bio-based key intermediate for many applications
for food, feed and personal care.
Expanding into new segments and regions is also a key part
of the nutrition strategy. DSM's investment in hydrocolloids
with the acquisition of a majority equity stake in Inner Mongolia
Rainbow Biotechnology Co., Ltd. is one such example.
Our fourth growth area, new business models, mainly
represents our drive to move further down the value chain,
closer to consumers and farmers. In 2017, we stepped up the
expansion of our branded, direct-to-consumer dietary
supplement business (i-Health) into the Asian market,
especially in China. Also in China, we significantly broadened
our branded, direct-to-farmer feed solutions, a strategy that
has provided us with extensive access to the relatively
fragmented local farming community.
In 2017, we reorganized some parts of our nutrition business,
namely Human Nutrition & Health, by market segment (e.g.
dietary supplements, food & beverage, early-life nutrition, NIP).
In addition to the regional geographic focus, these global
market segments have been designed to drive even greater
customer intimacy and growth, while at the same time
providing insights to key innovation needs for the future.
As we pursue opportunities across the Nutrition cluster, DSM
takes a balanced view. We consider potential risks to our
business and make an effort to mitigate these, including long-
term changes in food preferences and food systems, demand
for dietary supplements, commoditization of nutritional
ingredients, the spread of infectious diseases in animals, and
the effects of geopolitical and macroeconomic developments.
For more information on how DSM manages risks, see 'Risk
management' on page 112.
DSM Nutritional Products
DSM Nutritional Products has three market-facing entities:
Animal Nutrition & Health, Human Nutrition & Health and
Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients. DSM Nutritional Products
had total sales of € 
5,038 million in 2017, a 9% increase
compared to the € 4,633 million in 2016.Animal Nutrition & Health
Highlights 2017
-
Strong organic growth
- New facility within the China network
- Acquisition of Twilmij B.V. in the Netherlands
- Strengthened organization of the global commercial
headquarters
- Strong progress on innovation projects
The Animal Nutrition & Health business achieved sales of
€ 
2,660 million in 2017 versus € 2,399 million in 2016. Sales
were exceptionally strong, with 11% organic growth, driven by
9% higher volumes, albeit against an easy comparative base.
The business continued to benefit from its strategy to address
a wide range of species, as well as from its diversified
geographical presence, covering all the major growth areas in
the world, and its strong forward-integrated premix position.
Markets in animal feed were favorable and supportive in 2017,
except for Latin America, where weak economic conditions
impacted domestic demand. Prices were 2% above 2016,
owing to higher premix and vitamin prices.
DSM Animal Nutrition & Health serves the global feed industry
with innovative and sustainable nutritional solutions. A pioneer
since the earliest days of feed additives, we draw on the latest
science to provide a unique portfolio that runs from vitamins
through carotenoids to cutting-edge eubiotics and feed
enzymes.
Growing population and growing incomes are driving demand
for animal protein. Our products help producers of animal feed
and meat, including farmers, raise animals more efficiently and
sustainably. Products that boost efficiency are supporting
DSM's organic growth, while solutions for more sustainable
production present new business opportunities now and in the
future.
Greater interest in where food comes from and how it is
produced is driving some of this change. For example,
concerns about antimicrobial resistance are leading to
consumer and regulatory pressure to reduce antibiotic use in
animal nutrition. DSM anticipated this development and has
worked over the last ten years to position our broad and
proven portfolio of eubiotics as the solution. In 2017, we
stepped up our gut health strategy for antibiotic-free animal
production and rolled it out globally. As a result, sales of
eubiotics for gastrointestinal functionality grew by 20% versus
2016. CRINA® Poultry Plus performed particularly well. This
patented formulation of benzoic acid and essential oils is an
innovative eubiotic solution for broiler chickens.Review of business — Nutrition
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  71 www.dsm.comIn 2017, the core portfolio also had strong growth with the
reinforcement of our Hy-D® positioning in the vitamin D
segment. Used worldwide, Hy-D® is a vitamin D3 metabolite
that specifically supports bone development, muscle
formation and immune response in poultry and swine.
In China, we continued to expand our core with the growth of
premix solutions. This year in Shandong, we opened our sixth
Chinese premix facility. The country is the largest feed
producer in the world and one of the most dynamic markets
for Animal Nutrition & Health. Over the last five years our
business in China grew by double digits. Food consumption
trends remain strong and continue to be led by coastal cities.
However, the densely populated inland regions increasingly
present opportunities thanks in part to the development of
e-commerce including Alibaba, an important sales channel for
our business. Our growth in China is bolstered by our ability
to reliably access, supply and support a relatively fragmented
market through our direct-to-farmer business model.
Opening of the Shandong premix facility in China in September.
In Europe, we also expanded our core business with the
acquisition of Twilmij B.V., a Dutch nutritional solutions
company in the animal feed sector. Twilmij's geographic
location in the Netherlands strengthens our foothold in
Northwest-European markets, bringing us closer to
customers and allowing better service levels.
In Latin America, domestic demand was impacted by weak
economic conditions and then exacerbated by a meat scandal
in Brazil that was unrelated to DSM. Beef and poultry exports
were impacted but both recovered quickly in the third quarter,
leading to a strong overall performance in the second half of
the year.
In 2017, the organization of the global headquarters of Animal
Nutrition & Health was strengthened. This included reinforcing
marketing and sales capabilities that will further support our
growth strategy.DSM's innovation pipeline is broadening our portfolio of radical
breakthroughs for more sustainable production of animal
protein. Project Clean Cow is an excellent example. Trials
show a greater than 30% reduction in methane emissions from
cows fed with our new feed solution. Clean Cow is scheduled
to launch after 2019.
Another example is Project Green Ocean, now branded as
Veramaris. Veramaris is a joint venture of DSM and Evonik to
produce omega-3 fatty acids from natural algae for animal
nutrition in the aquaculture and pet food segments. This
Brighter Living Solution is a breakthrough innovation that will
enable cost-effective production of omega-3 fatty acids (DHA
and EPA) without using fish oil from wild caught fish, a finite
resource. Together, DSM and Evonik are investing USD 200
million in a manufacturing facility, which is under construction
in Blair (Nebraska, USA) and scheduled to open in 2019.
Human Nutrition & Health
Highlights 2017
-Organic growth from business-to-business and direct-
to-consumer solutions
-
Culturelle® becomes world's top branded probiotic
supplement
- Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient applications gain
momentum
- Africa Improved Foods plant opening
- Acquisition of BioCare Copenhagen A/S in Denmark
Human Nutrition & Health had sales of € 1,939 million in 2017
versus € 1,823 million in 2016, led by 7% organic growth. After
a significant step-up in organic growth in 2016, the business
maintained its positive momentum with 6% volume growth
and a slightly positive price development, despite ongoing
softness in some of its end-market segments. The growth
initiatives embarked on under Strategy 2018 resulted in this
above-market growth.
Human Nutrition & Health provides solutions for the food &
beverage, dietary supplements, early-life nutrition, medical
nutrition and Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (API) markets.
We serve these industries with vitamins, nutritional lipids,
carotenoids, nutraceuticals and custom nutrient premixes.
Our ability to deliver at a global scale while fostering local
customer intimacy continues to support above-market
growth. In fact, Human Nutrition & Health had strong organic
growth of 7% in 2017 with all reporting units and strategic
customer segments showing strong performance. By
strengthening our innovation pipeline in each market segment,
we are positioning ourselves for continued above-market
growth opportunities in the near future.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  72 www.dsm.comx“Our organization is now fit for
purpose. We are better
positioned to serve each
market segment with
targeted solutions.  ”
Chris Goppelsroeder, DSM Executive Committee
and President & CEO DSM Nutritional Products
Human Nutrition & Health is moving closer to the consumer.
More than 40% of the revenue comes from custom nutrient
premixes, retail-ready solutions and consumer products that
address areas of health such as cardiovascular, eye, cognitive
and gut health. Our consumer products unit, i-Health,
continued double-digit growth in 2017 and expanded ahead
of expectations globally. Its star brand, Culturelle®, became
the world's top-selling probiotic in 2017. The omega-3
business also grew across several regions thanks to
innovations like MEG-3® Ultra. Following the North America
launch of the MEG-3® Ultra in late 2016, DSM helped
successfully convert the US omega-3 dietary supplement
category towards concentrates throughout 2017 and further
escalated growth of the omega-3 business in other regions.
MEG-3® Ultra products leverage our new 3C technology that
delivers highly-concentrated and customizable combinations
of EPA and DHA while providing peace of mind through a
consistent supply chain. It provides brand owners with the
versatility to innovate tailored health-focused products to meet
consumer needs across a lifetime and to eliminate key
consumption barriers of omega-3 supplements such as
capsule size.
DSM's business in API applications continued to gain
momentum in 2017. The trend for higher levels of vitamins,
omega-3 and carotenoids in pharmaceutical applications
supported growth. DSM is still the only company that holds
CEPs (Certificate of Suitability of Monographs of the European
Pharmacopoeia) and the US Drug Master Files for all 13
essential vitamins. This means that pharmaceutical
companies working with DSM can get products to market
faster.
Our Human Nutrition & Health business also plays an
important role in achieving SDG 2 (Zero Hunger) and SDG 3
(Good Health and Well-being). The nightmare of hunger
continues for 800 million people around the world and two
billion more suffer from micronutrient deficiencies, or hidden
hunger. That means they receive enough calories to survive,
but not enough nutrients to thrive. Children are especially
vulnerable. DSM works with a range of stakeholders includingregional and global partners to develop solutions like custom
micronutrient interventions and fortified foods.
In May, DSM opened a plant in Rwanda for Africa Improved
Foods (AIF), a joint venture with the Government of Rwanda
and other international partners. In Rwanda, nearly 40% of
children under the age of five have stunted growth, a condition
that is caused by malnutrition and often goes hand in hand
with impaired cognitive development and other serious,
sometimes lifelong health issues. AIF's mission is to address
micronutrient deficiencies. The new plant employs 260 people
who produce fortified cereals and porridges. AIF sources
maize and soy from more than 9,000 local farmers. For more
information about AIF and other initiatives that address hunger
and malnutrition, see 'Collaborative platforms and networks'
on page 28 or visit the company website.
In December, DSM acquired BioCare Copenhagen A/S
(Denmark). This acquisition expands our offering in gut health
ingredients with probiotics, an attractive market segment in
nutritional ingredients, growing an estimated 7% per year.
Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients
Highlights 2017
-
Continued growth in both personal care and aroma
ingredients
- Improved cost competitiveness in UV filters
- Now offering largest portfolio of UV filters in the world
- Further organizational integration of the two
businesses
Sales were € 353 million in 2017, up from € 337 million in 2016.
Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients offers solutions for
customers in the personal care, home care and fine fragrance
markets. Our extensive portfolio includes aroma ingredients,
vitamins and natural bio-actives, as well as UV filters, peptides
and polymers. DSM's solutions support the health and beauty
needs of an aging population with various skin and hair types
around the world, and the increasing concerns around global
public health issues like air pollution and skin cancer.
This business grew well in 2017 thanks to an optimized supply
chain and product mix as well as accelerated innovation and
stronger customer relationships. We improved cost
competitiveness in certain segments like sun care and
satisfied high, sustained demand for aroma ingredients. New
innovations boosted performance in our skin and hair care
segments. We also continued expansion into make-up and
body care with sensory modifiers and new performance
ingredients.Review of business — Nutrition
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  73 www.dsm.comSun care was a highlight for the personal care business in
2017. We are on track with our ambitions in the UV filters
market. Thanks to a new partnership with Nanjing Cosmos
Chemical Co., Ltd., DSM now has the world's largest portfolio
of UV filters with the broadest range of protection across UVB,
UVA and blue light. The partnership will deliver two new UV
filters, PARSOL® Max and PARSOL® Shield. The agreement
also improves our supply chain and our ability to expand.
We expect demand for sunscreen to increase. For example,
only 14% of men and 30% of women in the US use sunscreen
daily. Skin cancer rates are rising and sunscreen is proven to
reduce incidence of skin cancer. DSM and our customers are
creating awareness around this issue. In 2017, we launched
a skin cancer prevention initiative and started offering
customers the DSM Sunscreen Optimizer™, a free online tool
that helps them develop and fine-tune sunscreen formulations
before costly, time-consuming SPF testing. DSM is also
raising awareness around the issue of blue light from both the
sun and electronic devices. With the launch of PARSOL® Max,
DSM was the first to offer solutions that protect skin against
oxidative stress from blue light.
DSM's ALPAFLOR®, a successful range of organic bio-
actives, is a great example of innovating for the natural trend
and was eagerly picked up by customers. Equally, aging
populations provide opportunities for growth in the anti-aging
segment, where DSM's SYN®-AKE, a small synthetic peptide,
is a successful ingredient.
Toward the end of the year, the more centrally organized
Aroma Ingredients were further integrated into the regionally-
driven Personal Care organization, while retaining strong
global key account management and connection to the core
manufacturing facility in Lalden (Switzerland).
DSM Food Specialties
Highlights 2017
-
New product introductions supporting health &
wellness trends
- Solid growth especially in savory ingredients
- Acquisition of Inner Mongolia Rainbow Biotechnology
in China for hydrocolloids
- Grand opening of the state-of-the-art biotechnology
center in Delft (Netherlands)
In 2017, sales for DSM Food Specialties amounted to € 541
million, compared to €
 536 million in 2016. Organic growth of
3% was driven by a solid performance in hydrocolloids, savory
ingredients, bio-preservation, food & crop protection, cultures
and enzymes. The latter was hampered by some capacityconstraints and therefore not able to fully benefit from strong
demand. Initiatives to expand capacity and optimize supply
are underway. Savory Ingredients had a strong year driven by
strong demand for its portfolio of yeast extracts, process
flavors, and taste modulators to provide an enjoyable taste
experience in low-sugar, low-salt, and low-fat applications.
DSM Food Specialties is a leading global supplier of specialty
food enzymes, cultures, bio-preservation solutions,
hydrocolloids, savory ingredients and solutions for sugar
reduction. Our ingredients and solutions are widely used to
create a broad range of food products from grocery favorites
like yogurt, cheese and soups to specialized products like
gluten-free bread or beer, meat substitutes, lactose-free milk
and sugar-reduced beverages. With nearly 150 years of
experience in biotechnology and fermentation for the food
industry, the business group aims to enable better food for
everyone, helping make existing diets healthier and more
sustainable, and giving increasing numbers of people around
the world access to affordable, quality food.
There are five main market trends driving demand for our
products: sugar reduction, enhanced taste experience,
improved health and wellness, bio-preservation and food
chain efficiency. At DSM we are fully committed to delivering
innovative solutions that enable food producers to capture the
opportunities presented by these trends, providing valuable
consumer and market insights alongside our innovative
specialty ingredients.
We opened a new state-of-the-art biotechnology facility at our
site in Delft (Netherlands) in April 2017, further expanding our
R&D capabilities for applications in food and nutrition, feed,
fuel, pharma and bio-based materials.
In food enzymes, our market-leading lactase enzyme,
Maxilact®, is increasingly popular for its natural sweetening
properties, which allow dairy producers to reduce the amount
of sugar used in products such as yogurts and flavored milks.
Pending legislation in Europe drove demand for
PreventASe®, an enzyme that reduces the levels of acrylamide
in baked goods and snacks.
We further expanded our dairy portfolio with the introduction
of Delvo®Guard, a new range of protective cultures that
reduce food waste in dairy. Effectively combating yeast and
mold growth, Delvo®Guard helps producers who are looking
for clean-label solutions to reduce losses and increase product
shelf life.
Solutions such as DSM's ModuMax™ enable producers of
foods and beverages to deliver an enjoyable taste experience
in low-sugar, low-salt, and low-fat applications, by creating a
fuller mouthfeel and masking negative off-notes. ModuMax™,
which was made widely available during the year, is also dairy
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  74 www.dsm.comallergen-free, suitable for vegetarian foods, and certified
natural according to EU and US regulations.
DSM's development program for fermentation-derived steviol
glycosides, the sweet tasting, zero-calorie molecules from the
stevia plant, remained well on track in 2017. Targeted major
customers were engaged in prototyping and sampling during
the year, with commercial availability expected in 2018.
Another growth platform in specialty food ingredients is
hydrocolloids — thickeners and stabilizers that dissolve,
disperse or swell in water to provide a broad range of critical
functionalities and physical attributes including gelling, texture,
mouthfeel, viscosity and suspension. Demand for
hydrocolloids, especially our natural hydrocolloids, is driven by
three underlying consumer trends:
-
The quest for affordable nutrition in the form of dairy and
protein products
- The trend toward clear labeling
- Recognition of the benefits of probiotics and prebiotics
Our hydrocolloids are primarily delivered in the form of pectin
and gellan gum. Both are used as gelling and stabilizing agents
in a variety of foods and beverages. DSM's natural
hydrocolloids are enjoying strong sales growth especially
versus synthetic and animal derived products. In 2017, we
acquired a majority equity stake in Inner Mongolia Rainbow
Biotechnology Co., Ltd. in China, further expanding our global
hydrocolloids business.Review of business — Nutrition
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  75 www.dsm.comBright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  76 www.dsm.com
Review of business — Nutrition
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  77 www.dsm.com
People rely on their cars for everything 
from road trips to work. DSM is driving the future of transportation together with major automotive OEMs. Our materials include lightweight, durable materials that can replace metal in various components. That helps vehicles get better fuel economy and lower tailgate emissions. We’re also working on solutions for more integrated electronics, so cars (and drivers) can be more connected and safer.@yazalpizarAlmost there!#roadtrip #sunsetSpain
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  78 www.dsm.com
The crew of Mission Arctic, an Arctic 
research expedition, chose gear made with Dyneema
®, the world’s strongest 
ﬁberTM. Ropes from DSM customer 
Atlantic Braids help keep the crew safe and successful as they navigate uncharted territory revealing the eќects of climate change. @missionarctic  What’s in our Fo’csle? These awesome ropes from Atlantic Braids! Thanks to @ablrope we have ropes we need for our expedition. #dyneema #atlanticbraids
Review of business — Nutrition
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  79 www.dsm.com
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  80 www.dsm.com
Review of business — Nutrition
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  81 www.dsm.com
New parents want the best for their 
babies. Now they can welcome their little ones home to a nursery painted with :igma (ir Pure, a bio-based paint that puriﬁes the air. :igma (ir Pure is based on DSM’s Decovery
® resins. Made from 
renewable resources like sugar, natural oils and starch, Decovery
® is a safer, 
healthier and more sustainable alternative to conventional resins, while oќering the quality and performance people expect.@jen_jiggs  The other helper got kicked out for putting her paws in the paint  #babyroompaintingCalifornia
Materials
High performance 
and eco-friendly
Materials for more 
connected, convenient, sustainable living. 
stronger than 
steel: Dyneema®, 
the world’s strongest fiber
TMof all internet traffic goes through DSMprotected fiber optic cablesof mobile devices currently sold contain 
DSM material100%
15xof cars 
currently sold contain our solutions90%
55%
Volume growth 
up from 2016+7%
Adjusted EBITDA margin, same as 201617.3%
Net sales (in millions) up from € 2,513 in 2016€ 2,825Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  82 www.dsm.comx € million 2017 2016
   
Net sales:   
DSM Engineering Plastics 1,448 1,312
DSM Dyneema 332 297
DSM Resins & Functional
Materials 1,045 904
   
Total 2,825 2,513
   
Organic sales growth (in %) 13 (1)
Adjusted EBITDA 488 435
Adjusted operating profit 361 311
Capital expenditure 124 106
Capital employed at 31
December 1,786 1,807
ROCE (in %) 20.0 17.6
Adjusted EBITDA margin (in %) 17.3 17.3
R&D expenditure 130 124
   
Workforce at 31 December
(headcount) 4,635 4,460
Business
DSM's Materials cluster consists of DSM Engineering Plastics,
DSM Dyneema and DSM Resins & Functional Materials. DSM
is a global player in specialty plastics for the electrical
components and electronics, automotive, flexible food
packaging and consumer goods industries. The materials
portfolio also includes Dyneema®, the world's strongest
fiber™, as well as resins for paints, industrial applications and
optical fiber coatings. For more information on DSM's
Materials cluster, see the DSM Factbook on the company
website.
Materials cluster performance
The Materials cluster delivered another year of strong financial
performance, continuing the excellent progress made since
the start of Strategy 2018. The 'silent transformation' of the
materials portfolio through a differentiated approach focusing
on specialty products, provides a clear framework to outpace
market growth and supported the cluster's performance again
in 2017. Growth continued to be driven by demand for more
sustainable, innovative, lightweight, environmentally friendly,
safer and higher performing solutions.
Full year 2017 sales were up 12% versus the same period last
year. Strong growth in specialties was the main driver behind
the 13% organic growth, of which 7% was volume growth.
The 6% price effect reflected increased input costs. All three
businesses in Materials delivered a double-digit percentage
organic growth.Full year 2017 Adjusted EBITDA increased by 12% versus
2016, driven by higher volumes. The Adjusted EBITDA margin
was stable at 17.3% as pricing and group-wide cost-saving
and efficiency improvement programs offset higher input costs
and negative foreign currency effects. This robust financial
performance demonstrates the improvements achieved in the
quality of returns in Materials over recent years.
x“
Our differentiated growth
strategy has delivered a
major step-up for the
Materials cluster. ”
Dimitri de Vreeze, DSM Managing Board
Net sales bridge 2017
x € mi
llion
2016 Volume Price/mix FX Other 20172,825
2,5137%-2%1%
6%
Trends
The trend to replace traditional materials by more sustainable
alternatives continues. Customers want materials that improve
the environmental footprint of their own operations and across
their value chains, especially in the areas of energy use and
emissions. This trend is driven by concerns over climate
change, higher expectations from end-users and stricter
government policies.
A better environmental footprint cannot be achieved at the
expense of performance, however. On the contrary, DSM's
materials must perform better than ever and sometimes in
entirely new ways. Today our products are lighter, tougher,
harder or softer, more durable, more versatile or more
recyclable to meet the demands of designers, process
engineers and manufacturers whose ambitions keep rising.Review of business — Materials
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  83 www.dsm.comAdditionally, people everywhere are increasingly aware of
safety, including safe manufacturing and product safety. For
example, DSM Engineering Plastics and DSM Resins &
Functional Materials offer solutions that eliminate or reduce the
use of hazardous substances in plastics and paints. The safety
trend also includes a greater focus on personal safety.
Dyneema®, the world's strongest fiber™, is ideal in
applications such as protective apparel for sports, outdoor
recreation and law enforcement.
Sustainability & Innovation
The main growth drivers of our Materials cluster are
sustainability and the shifts in demand that are happening
worldwide as a result of megatrends. Our high-performance
specialty products are designed to help customers be more
sustainable while offering benefits that go beyond traditional
materials. For example, the future of transportation will require
higher performing and more complex materials for new
autonomous, lightweight and more energy-efficient
automotive designs. Materials are also playing a role in other
areas such as renewable energy generation and storage, 3D
printing, more sustainable packaging and advanced
healthcare applications both in and outside of the body.Increasingly our innovation projects address solutions for a
more circular economy. According to the Ellen MacArthur
Foundation, the circular economy is one that is "restorative
and regenerative by design, and which aims to keep products,
components and materials at their highest utility and value at
all times". DSM-Niaga is an excellent example. For more
information on Niaga®, see DSM Resins & Functional
Materials.
The recent opening of our Materials Science Center, a cross-
company platform for state of-the-art know-how, has
increased our innovation capabilities. The center has also
improved collaboration, especially with DSM Biomedical and
DSM Advanced Solar, two of DSM's Emerging Business
Areas that offer attractive growth prospects in the longer term.
Another exciting development for Materials innovation in 2017
was the technology partnership agreement with Toyota
Motorsport GmbH. Toyota Motorsport is a high-performance
development, testing and manufacturing company that offers
a wide range of technical services as well as its affiliation with
various motorsports. Through the agreement, they will
develop and pilot new engineering solutions using DSM's
range of high-performance materials and products for the
automotive sector including engineering plastics, Dyneema®,
additive manufacturing (3D printing) and other technologies.
7
DSM Resins & Functional MaterialsDSM Dyneema
Emer ging Business AreasDSM Engineering Plastics
While not part of the cluster, the Emerging Business Areas of DSM Biomedical and DSM Advanced Solar 
ar
e also related to Materials and represent promising growth platforms for the longer term.7
Low High DSM’ s capabilities to extract valueMarket growthHigh-Performance Plastics
PA6 Injection molding
PA6 HV Film & extrusionFunctional Materials
1
1
11
Specialty Coating ResinsDyneema® Fiber Solutions
Dyneema® Life Protection Advanced Solar
BiomedicalHigh LowPowder Coating ResinsGrowth
Maximize returnsAccelerated growth 
• High single-digit percentage
  annual Adjusted EBITDA growth
 
• High double-digit basis point 
  annual ROCE growth 
 
• EBITDA margins
 > 15% over the period
• Above-market sales growth
  (at stable prices)Strategy 2018 aspirations
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  84 www.dsm.comStrategy
In 2017, we continued with our differentiated growth strategy.
For our relatively new portfolio of innovative high-performance
plastics, functional materials and high-performance fiber
solutions, we are accelerating growth. For our established
portfolio of specialty resins, engineering plastic compounds,
and solutions for life protection, we are targeting stable
growth. For our more mature portfolio of PA6 polymers and
extrusion resins, our aim is to maximize returns by efficient
product and process management.
Thanks to the consistent implementation of this strategy, our
businesses targeting Growth and Accelerated Growth are
growing at above-average rates for their respective markets
and delivering above-average profitability (see figure 'Strategy
2018 aspirations').
Additionally, in November, DSM announced a new, integrated
approach for our additive manufacturing (AM) activities. We
aligned all AM activities in one dedicated business unit within
the DSM Materials cluster effective January 2018.
We take a balanced view of our Materials business, and
therefore as we seize opportunities we also manage risks.
These include:
-
feedstock price volatility (especially oil and its derivatives);
- developments in disruptive technologies (e.g. 3D printing);
- changes stemming from new legislation and new product
and process requirements;
- the commoditization of existing materials or market
segments;
- our own ability to develop, bring to market, and manage
products that serve society's rapidly evolving needs; and
- the influence of geopolitical and macro-economic
developments.
For more information on how DSM manages risks, see 'Risk
management' on page 112.
DSM Engineering Plastics
Highlights 2017
-
Continued strong volume growth in high-performance
plastics
- Good acceptance of ForTii® Ace in market place
-New grade of PA46 Stanyl® HGR2 validated for usage
on Ford vehicles
DSM Engineering Plastics had total sales of € 1,448 million in
2017 compared to € 
1,312 million in 2016.DSM Engineering Plastics addresses key market trends in
automotive and electronics. About 90% of cars and virtually all
mobile devices currently sold contain our materials. During
2017, we continued to shift our portfolio toward higher-value,
specialty materials with advanced grades and improved
properties.
The quest for new forms of mobility is one of the main trends
currently driving our business. We create products that help
reduce the weight of vehicles, lower the friction generated by
moving vehicle parts and support the transition from petrol/
diesel to electric automotive power.
The other key trend shaping our business is the accelerating
demand for connectivity between products, devices and
applications. For example, vehicles today require more
electronic components and are increasingly connected to the
digital world. DSM has a proven history in both the consumer
electronics industry and the automotive industry.
Driven by these trends, as well as a strong global economy,
there was strong demand and strong volume growth for high-
performance and engineering plastics across various
industries and regions. Higher feedstock prices successfully
translated into higher plastic prices, significantly increasing
DSM Engineering Plastics' revenue in 2017. Our success was
further supported by a more balanced market environment for
our PA6 high viscosity extrusion polyamide compounds.
Our high-performance polymer ForTii® Ace, which was
launched in late 2016, was well received in the market place
in 2017. A versatile, next-generation polyphthalamide,
ForTii® Ace is ideal for metal replacement in the automotive
sector in transmission components, structural oil pans, front
engine covers and other thermoplastics applications. In 2017,
we started a number of metal-to-plastic conversion projects
with various tier one customers and OEMs.
DSM specialties showed good volume growth across the
various industries and regions. Responding to strong
customer demand in consumer electronics and automotive
markets, we expanded our production capacity for high-
performance plastics such as Stanyl® (PA46), ForTii® (PA4T)
and EcoPaXX® (PA410).
A new grade of PA46 Stanyl® HGR2 was validated for usage
on Ford vehicles. This low-friction, high wear-resistance
material is used in chain tensioner arms in the Ford F-150 and
Mustang's iconic and innovative 5.0-liter engine, and will soon
be implemented across various Ford vehicles globally.
In addition to serving the automotive and electronics sectors,
DSM Engineering Plastics provides solutions to specialized
industries that address a range of evolving consumer and
societal needs. For example, DSM's EcoPaXX® PA410 is a
bio-based polymer that can be used to support safer drinkingReview of business — Materials
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  85 www.dsm.comwater. Ideal for faucet components, EcoPaXX® PA410
prevents leakages, increases reliability and serves as a safe
alternative to old lead-based systems.
Favorable market conditions and effective business steering
delivered good volume growth for our PA6 HV extrusion
polyamide compounds, especially in Asia and Russia.
DSM Dyneema
Highlights 2017
-
Continued strong growth in the personal protection
market with Dyneema® Force Multiplier Technology
- Strong growth in aquaculture
-Launch of Dyneema® Carbon in sports, and increasing
number of partnerships to develop sports and
automotive applications
DSM Dyneema booked total sales of € 332 million in 2017
compared to € 
297 million in 2016.
This business is driven by our customers' and end-users'
needs for lightweight, sustainable solutions that offer extreme
durability as well as improved safety and ergonomics.
Dyneema® products typically replace traditional materials
such as steel and aramid.
Dyneema®, the world's strongest fiber™, is 15 times stronger
than steel on a weight-for-weight basis, 40% stronger than
aramid and floats on water. This combination of extreme
strength, lightness and high durability makes it suitable for a
wide and expanding range of applications. Additionally, in the
majority of its applications, Dyneema® is a Brighter Living
Solution. Products made with Dyneema® are more
sustainable than those made with traditional materials
because Dyneema® is lighter in weight, less of the material is
needed, it requires less energy in processing and in use, and
it gives products a longer lifetime. It is also safer and easier in
use, especially in heavy-duty applications.
DSM Dyneema has a well-established fiber business for
personal protection as well commercial marine and sports
applications. This business delivered double-digit growth in
2017, outgrowing the market as a whole with innovative
solutions in both existing and new markets. Continued strong
growth was especially noticeable in personal protection
solutions, which have replaced vehicle protection as a core
focus of our portfolio.
During 2017, we continued our strategy of expanding into new
market segments and applications by offering a range ofinnovative, unique and patent-protected technologies.
Examples include:
-
Dyneema® Force Multiplier Technology for comfortable,
ultra-light-weight ballistic protection;
- Dyneema® Diamond Technology, which offers increased
cut protection and comfort for heavy-duty gloves; and
- Dyneema® Max Technology for offshore deep-water crane
ropes and synthetic chains.
In 2017, this business also saw strong growth in demand for
applications in aquaculture nets. Designed to keep fish in and
predators out, nets made with Dyneema® are easier and safer
to handle than traditional nets and support more sustainable
fishing techniques.
Our markets for maritime and offshore applications, showed
signs of slow recovery. Meanwhile, progress was made in our
applications for the renewable energy and craning markets. In
the renewable energy market, for example, Dyneema® is used
in ropes and lifting slings for constructing and operating
onshore and offshore wind farms. Its soft, lightweight
characteristics make it ideal for use around delicate blades
and can speed up installation. Faster installation lowers costs
and makes offshore wind energy more competitive.
The launch of new form factors and applications during 2017
provided opportunities for DSM Dyneema to capture
additional value in many markets. These included Dyneema®
Flexible Composites for light-weight fabrics with increased
tear, puncture and abrasion performance. The year under
review saw growth in outdoor applications for this product
range, plus the launch of a Dyneema® fabric for protective
apparel for law enforcement personnel.
Launched in 2016, Dyneema® Carbon hybrid composite for
improved impact resistance and vibrational dampening in
sports and automotive applications showed good uptake
during 2017.
DSM is also supporting The Ocean Cleanup, an ambitious
mission to rid the world's oceans of plastic. The Ocean
Cleanup is designing and deploying floating barriers that
collect plastic debris. We share our facilities, knowledge and
networks, and we supply Dyneema®, an excellent material for
tough marine environments.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  86 www.dsm.comDSM Resins & Functional Materials
Highlights 2017
-
Continued strong growth in fiber optics
- First recyclable carpet with Niaga® commercialized by
Mohawk and new DSM-Niaga partnership with
mattress company Auping
- Launch of bio-based wall paint from PPG using
Decovery® resins platform
- Expanded 3D printing offering
DSM Resins & Functional Materials reported sales of € 1,045
million in 2017 compared to € 
904 million in 2016.
DSM is a global leader in the development and production of
waterborne, UV and powder coating resins. These products
offer clear sustainability advantages over the solvent-borne
resins traditionally used in paints and coatings. In functional
materials, DSM is the global leader in fiber-optic coatings. In
additive manufacturing (i.e. 3D printing), DSM offers highly
efficient and effective prototyping technologies which help the
industry to accelerate the pace at which new products are
designed and brought to market.
We are helping to build a more sustainable future together with
our customers and value chain partners. As legislation
continues to reduce the use of harmful substances such as
volatile organic compounds (VOCs), our growth comes from
anticipating changing end-user preferences and offering
innovative waterborne, powder and UV resins to replace
solvent-borne products. Aside from the technical benefits of
the new solutions we bring to market, we ensure that our
products help reduce greenhouse-gas emissions in the value
chain.
DSM Resins & Functional Materials took a significant step
forward during 2017 in a challenging business environment
that was affected by raw material shortages in our key
technologies as well as natural disasters impacting the
southern US. We strengthened our position in core markets
such as industrial coatings, architectural coatings and printing
inks. Growth in fiber optic materials continued to be driven by
demand for ever-increasing broadband speeds and strong
uptake of 4G and 5G cellular networks. Strong key account
management, high acceptance of powder coatings globally,
and of waterborne coatings in Europe and China, are driving
current growth. In China especially, a marked increase in
environmental awareness is fueling demand for more
sustainable coatings, benefiting our resins business.
We are also working on new Brighter Living Solutions for the
circular economy, such as Niaga®. More than a product,Niaga® is a design philosophy. We redesign products from
scratch so that all materials can easily be recovered and used
again and again. In early 2017, DSM-Niaga partnered with
Mohawk, the second-largest flooring maker in the US, to
commercialize Niaga® technology for Air.o™, the world's first
fully recyclable carpets. In late 2017, DSM-Niaga announced
a new partnership with Auping, a bed manufacturer, to create
fully recyclable mattresses.
In August 2017, DSM acquired the outstanding 49% of shares
in the DSM-AGI joint venture, thereby gaining sole ownership
of this Taiwan-based supplier of innovative, high-quality and
environmentally-friendly UV-curable resins and other specialty
chemicals. DSM originally acquired a 51% stake in DSM-AGI
in July 2011 to strengthen our UV-curing technology platform.
In October 2017, global paint maker PPG launched Sigma Air
Pure, a new bio-based wall paint targeting the high-end
professional interior decoration market. Based on DSM's
Decovery® bio-based technology, which was launched in
2016, Sigma Air Pure has an air purification effect. The paint
enhances the indoor air climate of homes, offices and schools
by removing up to 70% of the harmful formaldehyde from the
indoor air and neutralizing it. Decovery® makes an important
contribution to the EU's target to make the European paint
industry 30% bio-based by 2030.
DSM's 3D printing offering was expanded in 2017 with the
introduction of SOMOS® Taurus, a Brighter Living Solution
and the latest innovation in our portfolio of stereolithography
(SLA) materials. SOMOS® Taurus is the first durable SLA
material to withstand elevated temperatures.Review of business — Materials
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  87 www.dsm.comBright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  88 www.dsm.com
Review of business — Materials
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  89 www.dsm.com
Professor Ernesto Calvo from the institute 
INQUIMAE in Argentina was the winner of the 2017 Bright Minds Challenge, a contest co-hosted by DSM to accelerate the transition to 100% renewable energy. His winning project proposes a new and more sustainable way to extract lithium, a key material for batteries that store energy from renewable sources like solar.@BeABrightMind The WINNER of the #BrightMinds Challenge is INQUIMAE!! 500hrs of invaluable support to fast-forward our transition to 100% #renewableenergy!
Innovation
Science can 
change the world
21%  
innovation 
sales, achieving our ~20% targetAccelerating the innovation power of our 
core businesses with breakthroughs like:• Clean Cow project: feed additives for reduced 
methane emissions in cattle
• Veramaris joint venture with Evonik: 
 algae-based omega-3 for sustainable
 
aquaculture
• Plant-based proteins for human nutrition• Niaga
® technology for fully recyclable carpetsEvery 9 seconds a DSM 
biomedical device is implanted in a patient. DSM Biomedical Every day about one million solar panels are installed and right now 200 million use our anti-reflective coating. DSM Advanced SolarEvery week we ship biofuel from the POET-DSM plant in Iowa (USA). DSM Bio-based Products & Services
DSM delivers innovation with our three Emerging Business AreasBright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  90 www.dsm.comDSM Innovation Center
x € million 2017 2016
   
Net sales 169 167
   
Organic sales growth (in %) 3 6
Adjusted EBITDA 9 1
Adjusted operating profit (30) (24)
Capital expenditure 43 32
Capital employed at 31
December 562 576
R&D expenditure 75 75
   
Workforce at 31 December
(headcount) 685 619
The DSM Innovation Center has two functions. The first is to
help develop new business, focusing on areas outside the
current scope of the company's business groups. It identifies
and invests in new and innovative growth options, initially
through the DSM Business Incubator and then by developing
and extracting value via the company's Emerging Business
Areas (EBAs). The second function is accelerating the
innovation power and speed of our core businesses. In this
role, the Innovation Center supports all businesses through the
Excellence in Innovation Program, DSM Venturing and the IP
& Licensing department. In addition, the Chief Technology
Officer, through the DSM Science & Technology Department,
ensures the quality of the total R&D competence base and
adds adjacent technologies for growth through DSM's
Corporate Research Program.
The Innovation Center made good progress over the year,
delivering on its Strategy 2018 goals to extract value from the
Emerging Business Areas, the acceleration of large innovation
projects, while simultaneously supporting the Nutrition and
Materials business with their growth initiatives.
Full year 2017 sales in the main Emerging Business Area DSM
Biomedical showed a strong underlying growth, largely
offsetting the gradual discontinuation of a large contract during
the year. DSM Advanced Solar delivered good growth in anti-
reflective coatings and through the new backsheet activities
for solar panels which were added in 2017 through the
Sunshine acquisition.
Full year 2017 Adjusted EBITDA increase was largely driven
by one-time positive effects from restructurings in DSM
Advanced Solar, which had a positive EBITDA effect due to
releases of liabilities, whereas the redundancy of certain assets
related to these restructurings led to an impairment loss
impacting the EBIT negatively.Creating opportunities for future earnings growth through
innovation
In 2017, innovation sales across DSM were 21%, above our
aspiration of 20%. Through innovation, we are preparing for
even more growth beyond 2018. We further focused our
innovation program on a smaller number of bigger projects,
providing interesting opportunities for 2019-2020 and
onward. Examples include:
-
The Clean Cow project for feed additives that reduce
methane emissions in cattle
- The Green Ocean partnership with Evonik (now called
Veramaris) for algae-based omega-3 for sustainable
aquaculture
- The fermentative stevia sweetener platform
- Plant-based proteins for human nutrition
- Sustainable biological solutions for crop protection in
agriculture
- Niaga® technology for fully recyclable carpets
- ForTii® high-performance plastics
- Dyneema® carbon composites
Enabling DSM's Bright Science
The ability to deliver innovative products and solutions is
essential to DSM's business success and positive impact on
society. The Innovation Center plays a central role in guiding,
enabling and accelerating innovation and R&D across the
company.
R&D is instrumental to the realization of DSM's innovation
strategy. Most of our expenditure in this area is directed
toward business-focused programs that underpin our
science-based, sustainable solutions.
R&D expenditure (including associated IP expenditure)
x € million 2017 2016
   
Nutrition 219 205
Materials 130 124
Innovation Center 75 75
Corporate Activities 20 22
   
Total 444 426
Total as % of net sales 5.1 5.4
Staff employed in R&D activities
(total DSM) 1,920 2,055Review of business — Innovation
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  91 www.dsm.comx“Our innovation portfolio really
reflects the choices we've
made and defines the
company we want to be.
Today the overwhelming
majority of our innovation
pipeline is based on
sustainability.  ”
Rob van Leen, DSM Executive Committee
Marcus Remmers joined DSM in April 2017 as Chief
Technology Officer. A transformational leader and team-
builder with a wide-ranging international background, Marcus
has extensive experience in polymer and life sciences R&D,
business operations, business development, strategy, and
change management.DSM has seven scientific competence areas. These are in
analytical, biological, chemical, engineering, macromolecular,
materials, and nutritional sciences. All seven are key to the
company's continued success. The Science & Technology
Department ensures that DSM has the right combination of
skills, capabilities and partners to maintain and deliver on these
competence areas.
Our internal science network consists of more than 1,900
people, including 25 professors and academic associates,
who are spread across the globe. These employees co-
operate extensively with external R&D institutions, both in
academic collaborations and in broader public-private
partnerships, such as the Bio-based Industries Consortium.
In line with this Open Innovation approach, DSM also regularly
connects with its international Scientific Advisory Board.
Acting under the supervision of the Chief Technology Officer,
the Board provides valuable different perspectives and
insights, challenges and reviews our scientific work and gives
advice on trends and upcoming disruptive technologies. It
comprises five internationally recognized experts in the fields
of materials, biotechnology and nutrition from leading
universities in the US and Europe.
Scientific Advisory Board
Member Background
Chris Voigt (m)Professor of Advanced Biotechnology in the Department of Biological Engineering at
Massachusetts Institute of Technology (US). He is the Co-Director of the Synthetic Biology
Center at MIT and the Co-Founder of the MIT-Broad Foundry. He is also Editor-in-Chief of ACS
Synthetic Biology. Nationality: American.
Wolfgang Marquardt (m)Chairman of the Board of Forschungszentrum Jülich (Germany), Vice-President of the Helmholtz
Association, and Coordinator of the Research Field Key Technologies. He also co-
founded AixCAPE e.V., a technology transfer platform in the field of computer-aided process
engineering, and its spin-off S-PACT GmbH. He has more than 350 ISI-listed publications.
Nationality: German.
Philip Calder (m)Professor of Nutritional Immunology at the University of Southampton (UK). He has won many
internationally recognized awards for his work, and is also Chair of the Scientific Committee of
the European Society for Clinical Nutrition and Metabolism (ESPEN) and President of the Nutrition
Society. Nationality: New Zealand.
Frank Bates (m)Regents Professor of Chemical Engineering and Materials Science at the University of Minnesota
(US). His research involves the thermodynamics and dynamics of polymers and polymer
mixtures. He has co-authored more than 400 publications and over 20 patents. Nationality:
American.
Craig Hawker (m)Director of the California Nanosystems Institute, Dow Materials Institute, Facility Director of the
Materials Research Lab and Heeger Professor for Interdisciplinary Science at the University of
California, Santa Barbara (US). He has co-authored over 500 scientific papers and holds more
than 70 US patents. Nationality: Australian.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  92 www.dsm.comDSM's new Materials Science Center in Sittard-Geleen
(Netherlands) was established in 2017 to better service the
current and future science needs of our Materials businesses.
Joining forces across the Materials R&D organization will
boost innovation and competitive positioning of businesses
that draw on materials science.
April 2017 saw the grand opening of a new state-of-the-art
biotechnology center at our site in Delft (Netherlands) to
accelerate our biotechnology research and development
capabilities for applications in food and nutrition, feed, fuel,
pharma and bio-based materials. The facility has been named
the Rosalind Franklin Biotechnology Center in honor of
pioneering scientist Rosalind Franklin (1920-1958), whose
extraordinary work during a tragically short life and career
significantly contributed to our understanding of the structure
of DNA, effectively creating the basis for modern
biotechnology. By honoring Rosalind Franklin, DSM pays
tribute to all female heroes of science. The biotechnology
center forms the heart of Biotech Campus Delft, an initiative of
DSM Delft, Delft University of Technology, the City of Delft and
the Province of South Holland to enhance the city's standing
as a world-leading location for biotechnology development.
DSM Venturing
DSM Venturing invests in innovative companies in areas
strategically relevant to DSM's current and future businesses.
Our portfolio comprises 25 active investment companies.
Each year, DSM Venturing reviews well over 500 new
candidates.
In 2017, we entered into a number of new venturing
investments and completed one significant financial exit. We
also continued our involvement in the SunRISE TechBridge
Challenge see 'Innovation partnerships' on page 95.
For more information on DSM Venturing, see the company
website.
IP & Licensing
IP & Licensing is a global group of qualified IP professionals
who protect DSM innovations with patents and trademarks.
This group also includes certified licensing professionals who
offer expertise for intellectual property-intensive deals across
all DSM businesses, including joint development agreements,
technology acquisitions and sales, as well as in-, out- and
cross-licensing deals.
In 2017, DSM filed 282 patents, somewhat below our long-
term average. This reflects our changed business portfolio and
a greater focus on fewer innovation projects with higher
potential for business impact.Emerging Business Areas
DSM's EBAs provide strong long-term growth platforms in
promising end-markets that are based on the company's core
competences. DSM has three EBAs:
-
DSM Biomedical
- DSM Bio-based Products & Services
- DSM Advanced Solar
The EBAs delivered a total of € 17 million in Adjusted EBITDA
in 2017 (2016: € 16 million).
DSM Biomedical
DSM Biomedical is a trusted partner to the global medical
device industry, enhancing the quality and delivery of
healthcare, and shaping the future of biomaterials and
regenerative medical devices. Every nine seconds, a patient
somewhere in the world receives a medical device containing
a DSM biomedical solution.
With global reach backed by a leading research and
distribution network based in the US and the Netherlands, our
product portfolio, technologies and expertise enable medical
device companies to advance care across a wide range of
medical specialties. These products address key global trends
in medicine, from treating an aging global population to
supporting more active lifestyles, while at the same time
answering the need for safer, less invasive and more cost-
effective procedures.
Through our investment in research and our state-of-the-art
capabilities, we create, develop and produce innovative
materials for our partners, as well as components, sub-
assemblies and full medical devices. Our technology portfolio
of high-quality advanced healing solutions includes biomedical
polyurethanes and polyethylenes, resorbable polymers,
bioceramics, collagens, extracellular matrices, device
coatings, and cellular therapy platforms. These are used in
applications in some of the world's most attractive high-
growth markets, including orthopedics, soft tissue, cardiology,
diabetes management, and general and reconstructive
surgery.
Key trends shaping the global medical device industry in 2017
included:
- the shift toward value-based reimbursement with market
success for products that have proven clinical and health
economic outcomes;
- large-scale industry consolidation of medical device
companies and attendant supply chain rationalization; and
- the quest for proven, largely de-risked products and
concepts that can be developed into innovative, finished
medical devices.Review of business — Innovation
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  93 www.dsm.comDSM Biomedical made good progress in 2017. Assisted by
growth from product innovations in medical devices for
selected therapeutic areas, DSM Biomedical outpaced its
attainable market while capturing higher-value business.
DSM Bio-based Products & Services1
As the world increasingly seeks alternatives to fossil resources
and progresses toward a more sustainable, bio-renewable
economy, significant commercial opportunities are presenting
themselves in advanced biofuels and renewable chemical
building blocks such as bio-based succinic acid.
DSM Bio-based Products & Services pioneers advances in
biomass conversion and seeks to demonstrate the
commercial viability of sustainable, renewable technologies in
collaboration with strategic partners in the value chain. In
particular, DSM has developed patented bioconversion
technologies (yeast and enzymes) for various feedstocks and
processes (including starch-based and cellulosic) in the
biofuels industry. DSM's strategy is to deliver unique and
differentiating technologies that enable biofuel plant operators
to optimize their processes and maximize their yield and co-
product creation. This helps make the production of biofuels
even more sustainable.
Starch-based bio-ethanol
DSM developed a proprietary yeast which has demonstrated
a significant ethanol yield increase. The product is under
extensive market testing and evaluation. Full-scale
commercial launch in the US ethanol market is planned in
2018.
Cellulosic bio-ethanol
The POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels joint venture operates a
commercial-scale production facility for cellulosic bio-ethanol
in Emmetsburg (Iowa, USA). This facility processes corn-crop
residues through a bioconversion process that uses enzymatic
hydrolysis followed by fermentation. DSM's biotechnology has
demonstrated its unique proposition and performance. In the
first quarter of 2017, significant improvements to the reliability
of the process were made, including the redesign of the pre-
treatment set-up, which resulted in improved performance.
The delays in the start-up together with the pre-treatment re-
design led to an impairment of € 65 million in the third quarter
of 2017. Since then, bio-ethanol production volumes have
improved month on month, and POET-DSM is now shipping
to customers on a weekly basis. As a result of the improved
process reliability, POET-DSM is building an enzyme
production plant at the Emmetsburg site that will be integrated
into the process and forms a key component of the technology
package.
1DSM's interest in the net result of the joint ventures POET-DSM and Reverdia
is reported as part of 'Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures'.Bio-succinic acid
The Reverdia joint venture between DSM and Roquette
operates its Biosuccinium® plant in Cassano (Italy), where it
produces high-quality bio-succinic acid. Reverdia had a
successful operational year in 2017, which exceeded the
original targets for its low-pH yeast fermentation technology.
In April, Biosuccinium® S grade was approved as 100%
natural by ECOCERT. In June, Bonderalia Italia launched a
new natural and multifunctional emulsifier for use in the
cosmetics industry based on Biosuccinium® S and organic
pumpkin seed oil, while in July, VAUDE launched a range of
high-end trekking footwear containing Biosuccinium®.
Reverdia invested substantially in market and application
development in 2017 and saw customers increase by 30% in
the period from 2016-2017.
DSM Advanced Solar
Solar photovoltaic (PV) capacity is growing faster than any
other fossil or renewable power source. DSM Advanced Solar
aims to accelerate the uptake and effectiveness of solar
energy by focusing on the development and
commercialization of technologies and materials that increase
the efficiency of solar modules. Increased efficiency reduces
the cost of energy delivered.
Coatings are one area of expertise. Today more than 50 GW
of solar modules have been produced using DSM coating
technologies. In 2017, we expanded our anti-reflective coating
market leadership position and launched a new product, DSM
Anti-Soiling coating. Solar modules treated with this new
coating soil less quickly, are easier to clean and maintain better
power output.
We also developed a new Brighter Living Solution —
innovative conductive backsheets for use with back-contact
cells. Back-contact cell technology offers better efficiency and
value for photovoltaics, and lowers the levelized cost of energy
see 'Explanation of some concepts and ratios' on page 240.
To complement our offering, we acquired and integrated
Chinese-based company Suzhou Sunshine New Materials
Technology Co., Ltd. in 2017. Sunshine brings high-
performance, innovative non-fluorinated backsheet products
with a proprietary technology base.
New solar energy projects in China, the US and India drove
demand throughout the year. DSM's focus on being first to
market for anti-reflective coating technology in India led to an
especially strong position with leading manufacturers of solar
PV modules. Furthermore, DSM is supporting the transition to
improved and more sustainable backsheet technology with
companies like Vikram Solar in India.
DSM Business Incubator
The DSM Business Incubator explores potential future
business opportunities in areas with a close link to DSM's
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  94 www.dsm.comtechnologies and competence base. Platforms are created
within the scope of securing society's food, health and energy
requirements, in close collaboration with industry partners and
existing and potential customers. DSM's Business Incubator
feeds our new product pipeline with opportunities that address
unmet customer needs.
In 2017, the DSM Business Incubator worked on three key
ventures. In the Canola venture, we produce a high-quality
plant protein for food & beverage applications from biomass
derived from rapeseed, also known as canola.
A demonstration unit is now up and running, pre-marketing
volumes are being developed for application development,
and market interest in our CanolaPRO™ solution was very
strong in 2017. In our energy storage project, meanwhile, a
number of potential leads were explored, generating interest
on the part of several battery/separator companies. The third
venture is our partnership with Syngenta (see next section,
'Innovation partnerships').
Innovation partnerships
DSM's ongoing R&D partnership with Syngenta develops and
commercializes biological solutions for agriculture. Our aim is
to accelerate the delivery of a broad spectrum of products
based on naturally occurring micro-organisms for pre- and
post-harvest applications. The project has a long-term focus
and high potential. Our cooperation made excellent progress
in 2017 as we worked to accelerate the development of these
solutions.
DSM has several other partnerships as well. For example, in
2017, we ran the SunRISE TechBridge II challenge together
with Fraunhofer TechBridge and Greentown Labs, building on
the success of the inaugural challenge in 2016. Once again it
allowed us to evaluate opportunities for collaboration and
investment that could accelerate innovation in our solar
business. There were 56 applications and four early-stage
companies were announced as winners in 2017.Bright Minds Challenge
In 2017, DSM together with several partners from the public
and private sector sparked a movement to help fast forward
the 100% renewable energy revolution. The Bright Minds
Challenge mobilized scientists, governments, businesses and
civil society. We called on people from around the world to
submit their projects and ideas for solar energy and energy
storage. We received 55 submissions from 22 countries
across five continents. The three most promising solutions
were awarded with expert support from DSM and partners to
help them scale up as quickly as possible.
The first prize in the Bright Minds Challenge was won by
Professor Ernesto Calvo (Argentina), who invented a new way
of extracting lithium that is powered by solar energy and is
quicker and cleaner than any existing technology.Review of business — Innovation
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  95 www.dsm.comAny consolidated activities that are outside the three reporting
clusters are reported as Corporate Activities. These comprise
operating and service activities, as well as a number of costs
that cannot be allocated to the clusters. While this segment
reports net sales from its service units to third parties, it
normally has a negative operating result.
Corporate Activities includes various holding companies,
regional holdings and corporate overheads. The most
significant cost elements are corporate departments and the
share-based compensation for the company.
Corporate Activities
x € million 2017 2016
   
Net sales 59 71
   
Adjusted EBITDA (105) (105)
Adjusted operating profit (144) (141)
Capital expenditure 12 16
   
R&D operating expenditure 20 22
   
Workforce at 31 December
(headcount) 2,058 2,447
DSM Insurances
The company retains a limited part of its material damage and
business interruption and (product) liability risks via DSM's
captive insurance company. In 2017, the total retained
damages were € 
23 million.
Corporate Research
The Corporate Research Program (CRP) is aimed at
developing key Science & Technology competences. The
CRP, which falls under the responsibility of the Chief
Technology Officer, typically funds competence development
programs with a longer time horizon than those run by the
business groups, and focuses on competences that have a
broader relevance for DSM. The CRP also supports Science
& Technology programs that are carried out with external
parties and programs covering relevant new trends.Corporate Activities
Share-based payments
Executives participate in the Long-Term Incentive (LTI)
scheme linking their reward to longer-term stakeholder
interests and providing an attraction and retention vehicle. As
shares / share units have become more prevalent in the
market, the switch from stock options to shares / share units
was made in 2017, resulting in better alignment with the LTI
vehicle in place for the Managing Board and Executive
Committee and aiming for an even closer alignment with the
interests of DSM's stakeholders. Because of this switch, the
company has reduced its hedge obligations. For detailed
information, see Note 27 of the 'Consolidated financial
statements' on page 210.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  96 www.dsm.comPartnerships
As part of DSM's strategic transformation and move away
from more commoditized and cyclical areas, we established
joint ventures for the pharma activities (DSM Sinochem
Pharmaceuticals for anti-infectives in 2011 and Patheon for
contract development and manufacturing services in 2014)
and for the bulk chemical businesses in Polymer Intermediates
and Composite Resins (ChemicaInvest in 2015).
The results of these joint ventures are reported under 'Share
of profit of associates and joint ventures' and 'Other results
related to associates and joint ventures' in the Consolidated
income statement on page 158. See also 'Associates and
joint ventures' on page 183.
These joint ventures were created with the intention of
ultimately exiting these businesses and maximizing value.
DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals
x € million (100%) 2017 2016
   
Net sales 440 431
   
Adjusted EBITDA 73 62
Adjusted operating profit 42 34
Capital employed at 31
December 323 223
DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals (DSP) continued to deliver
strong growth over the year as its sustainability-driven
antibiotics platforms are increasingly valued by the market.
Sales growth was partly offset by negative foreign currency
effects. DSP is a 50/50 joint venture between DSM and
Sinochem Group, a Fortune 500 company. DSP is the global
leader in sustainable antibiotics, next-generation statins and
anti-fungals. DSP develops, produces and sells intermediates,
active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) and drug products.
DSP is at the forefront of technological and process
developments for anti-infectives and cholesterol-lowering
molecules, using environmentally-friendly technologies such
as fermentation and enzymatic conversions to replace
chemical processes. Headquartered in Singapore, the group
has manufacturing sites and sales offices in China, India,
Egypt, the Netherlands, Spain, the US and Mexico.
Sustainable antibiotics
DSP takes a leading role in making and promoting sustainable
antibiotics. Its high-quality APIs, called PureActives®, are
manufactured using enzymes rather than chemicals. This
process emits much less CO 2. Additionally, DSP sites
worldwide have implemented requirements for clean and
sustainable production. It operates dedicated waste watertreatment plants at all manufacturing sites in combination with
antimicrobial activity testing.
DSP works with partners across the entire value chain to buy,
use and sell responsibly made antibiotics. Its approach
includes taking a proactive stance on antimicrobial resistance
(AMR). DSP is a signatory company to the UN Industry
Roadmap on combating AMR and member of the
Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative. In 2017, DSP joined
the AMR Industry Alliance as a member of the Board and
several working groups. This alliance brings together over 100
research-based pharmaceutical, generics, biotech and
diagnostic companies and associations, to drive and measure
the life sciences industry's progress in curbing antimicrobial
resistance.
Patheon
Patheon was formed in 2014 as part of a USD 2.6 billion
transaction between JLL Partners and DSM, which combined
the businesses of DSM Pharmaceutical Products and
Patheon, Inc. The company is a leading global provider of
outsourced pharmaceutical development and manufacturing
services ranging from formulation development to clinical and
commercial-scale manufacturing, packaging, and lifecycle
management. In 2017, DSM divested Patheon. Cash
proceeds were about € 
1.5 billion. Together with the
approximately € 0.5 billion in cash that DSM already received
in recent years, including the proceeds from the Initial Public
Offering of Patheon, the total cash proceeds from the
divestment of DSM's custom manufacturing activities in
Pharma amount to approximately € 2.0 billion.
ChemicaInvest
x € million (100%) 2017 2016
   
Net sales 1,933 1,802
   
Adjusted EBITDA 205 107
Adjusted operating profit 156 (36)
Capital employed at 31
December 454 556
ChemicaInvest is a global leader in the production and supply
of caprolactam and a leading European supplier of acrylonitrile
and composite resins. DSM has a 35% shareholding in the
company. ChemicaInvest showed a good financial recovery in
2017 driven by favorable conditions in the caprolactam and
acrylonitrile markets and continued growth in the composite
resins market, combined with an improved cost structure and
lean operational management.Review of business — Partnerships
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  97 www.dsm.comFinancial policy
As a basis for and contribution to effective risk management
and to ensure that the company is able to pursue its strategies,
even during periods of economic downturn, DSM aims to
retain a strong balance sheet and limit its financial risks.
DSM's Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable Growth has ambitious
strategic and financial targets, which are outlined from page
18 onwards. Within the context of this strategy, DSM aims to
maintain a strong investment grade long-term credit rating.
Most of DSM's external funding needs are financed through
long-term debt. Debt covenants are not included in the terms
and conditions of outstanding bonds and financing
arrangements. DSM aims to spread the maturity profile of
outstanding bonds in order to have adequate financial
flexibility.
An important element of the company's financial policy is the
allocation of cash flow. DSM primarily allocates cash flow to
investments aimed at strengthening its business positions and
securing the dividend payments to its shareholders.
Remaining cash flow is further used for acquisitions and
partnerships that strengthen DSM's competences and market
positions in health, nutrition and materials. 
DSM aims to provide a stable, and preferably rising, dividend.
Dividends are paid out in cash or in the form of ordinary shares
at the option of the shareholders, with a maximum of 40% of
the total dividend amount available for stock dividend.
In order to cover our commitments under the dividend policy
and under management and employee option and share
plans, DSM buys back shares insofar as this is necessary and
feasible. In the year, 4,500,000 shares were repurchased to
meet these obligations (2016: 5,200,000 shares).
It is company policy to hedge 100% of the currency risks
resulting from sales and purchases at the moment of
recognition of trade receivables and payables. Additionally,
under strict conditions, operating companies may opt to
hedge currency risks from firm commitments and forecasted
transactions. The currencies giving rise to these risks are
primarily USD, CHF, JPY and GBP. The risks arising from
currency exposures are regularly reviewed when appropriate.
A business or partner that is targeted for acquisition should
add value to DSM in terms of technological or market
competences. Acquired companies are in principle required
to contribute to DSM's cash earnings per share from the very
beginning and to earnings per share from the second year. In
addition, they are required to meet the company's profitability,
sustainability and growth requirements. However, such
requirements may not be appropriate in the case of small,innovative growth acquisitions, although the sustainability
requirement will be upheld at all times.
DSM's policy in the various sub-disciplines of the finance
function is strongly oriented toward solidity, reliability and
protection of cash flows. The finance function plays an
important role in business steering.
For detailed information on DSM's tax policy, see 'Taxation at
DSM' on the company website.Financial and reporting policies
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  98 www.dsm.comReporting policy
Reporting policy and justification of choices made
In this Report, DSM reports for the calendar year 2017. The
company reports on People, Planet and Profit information in
such a Report on an annual basis. The previous DSM
Integrated Annual Report was published on 2 March 2017.
In the Report by the Managing Board, we explain our vision
and policy with respect to sustainability practices and report
on our activities in this field during 2017. In addition to
disclosing data and developments in the categories of People,
Planet and Profit, we also report on the global societal
megatrends that drive our strategy, sustainability governance
framework, stakeholder engagement activities, and
management approach on material topics. DSM proactively
seeks out the views of key stakeholders on issues of material
importance to the company.UN Global Compact
DSM has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since
2007 and commits to annually report on progress in
implementing the UN Global Compact's 10 Principles in the
areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-
corruption. This Report is DSM's Communication on Progress
2017, submitted to the UN Global Compact Office. Our Code
of Business Conduct, our Sustainability, Human Resources,
and Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) policies, and our
Supplier Sustainability Program are the foundations on which
DSM applies the standards of the Global Compact.
We have also aligned our strategy with the Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs). DSM is familiar with the
opportunities and responsibilities that the SDGs represent for
DSM's business. Based on our mapping, we believe that we
contribute to all of them, and have chosen to focus on the
goals which most closely align with our strategic ambitions. In
this Report, we continue to include the SDGs into our reporting
process, for example by mapping SDG reporting priorities in
our value creation model, our material topics, and the solutions
that we highlight.
Principles of the UN Global Compact1
 
 DSM Code of Business Conduct (page 108 - page 111) and
relevant page(s) in the Integrated Annual Report 2017
Principle 1 Support of human rights page 41, page 140, page 148
Principle 2 Exclusion of human rights violation page 41, page 140, page 148
Principle 3 Observance of the right to freedom of association page 41
Principle 4 Abolition of all forms of forced labor page 41
Principle 5 Abolition of child labor page 41
Principle 6 Elimination of discrimination page 10 to page 11, page 37 to page 38, page 41
Principle 7 Precautionary environmental protection page 10, page 46 to page 51
Principle 8 Specific commitment to environmental protection page 46 to page 51, page 145 to page 146
Principle 9 Diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies page 10 to page 11, page 46 to page 51, page 68 to page 75,
page 82 to page 87, page 90 to page 95, page 
139
Principle 10 Measures to fight corruption page 112 to page 116, page 148
1In 2017, DSM once again renewed its commitment to the UN Global Compact's CEO Water Mandate; see 'Planet' on page 50.
Global Reporting Initiative
At DSM we base our sustainability reporting on international
non-financial reporting guidelines. We frequently assess to
what extent sustainability aspects become material to our
company and our stakeholders. In case specific indicators
become relevant to the company's sustainability performance,
appropriate actions are taken that allow the necessary data to
be collected so as to be able to disclose progress in the future.
This Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI
Standards: Comprehensive option. A detailed overview of how
DSM reports according to the GRI Standards comprehensive
indicators, including a reference to relevant sections in thisReport, is provided on the company's Integrated Annual
Report website.
Integrated Reporting Framework
DSM aligns with the recommendations of the International
Integrated Reporting Council <IR> Framework where
possible. The intention of the <IR> Framework is to provide
additional guiding principles and content elements for an
integrated report. Aligning with the framework allows us to
better identify and communicate how the company creates
value for stakeholders in People, Planet and Profit, as well as
the interconnection between these three dimensions. Financial and reporting policies — Reporting policy
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  99 www.dsm.comThe Taskforce for Climate-related Financial Disclosures
In 2017, the Taskforce for Climate-related Financial
Disclosures (TCFD) released its recommendations for a set of
voluntary, climate-related financial disclosures for use by
companies to provide information to their stakeholders. DSM
is among the first companies to commit to implementing, as
fully as practicable, these recommendations over the next
three years as outlined in the TCFD's implementation path.
DSM is investigating how to implement these
recommendations and will provide more information on this in
subsequent reports.
Selection of topics
The topics covered in this Report were selected on the basis
of input from internal and external stakeholders and the related
materiality analysis, which assessed the relevance and impact
of selected topics for DSM and various stakeholders. On the
basis of the principle of materiality (using the GRI Standards),
DSM distinguishes between topics whose importance
warrants publication in this Report (relevant to both DSM and
stakeholders), and topics whose importance warrants
publication on the company website only (topics important to
either DSM or stakeholders). DSM reports on external
recognition in 'Stakeholders' on page 31. Other examples of
external recognition can be found on the company website.
Scope
The People and Brighter Living Solutions data in this Report
cover all entities that belong to the scope of the Consolidated
financial statements, provided that DSM also has operational
control. As such, three small units have been excluded from
the scope. Planet reporting covers manufacturing units where
commercial production by DSM occurs.
Acquisitions and divestments
The People data for newly acquired companies are reported
from the first full month after the acquisition date. The Safety,
Health (People), Environment (Planet) and Brighter Living
Solutions data for newly acquired companies are reported at
the latest in the year following the first full year after acquisition,
because these companies' reporting procedures first have to
be aligned with those of DSM. In the case of divestments,
safety data are consolidated until the moment of divestment,
People data to the end of the month of divestment, and Planet
data are reported to the last full year at DSM.
Planet methodology
Our progress on the key environmental performance
indicators is re-evaluated annually. Data on these indicators
are collected twice a year for all DSM sites. The data are based
on these sites' own measurements and calculations, which in
turn are founded on definitions, methods and procedures
established at corporate level. The site managers of reporting
units are responsible for the quality of the data. Data are
collected using measurements and calculations in the
production processes, information from external parties (e.g.on waste and external energy) and estimates based on expert
knowledge.
Reporting units have direct insight into their performance
compared to previous years and are required to provide
justifications for any deviations above the threshold. For most
parameters, the threshold is set at 10%. The year-on-year
comparability of the data can be affected by changes in our
portfolio as well as by improvements to measurement and
recording systems at the various sites. Whenever impact is
relevant, this is stated in the Report. Details for the regions, as
well as the methodology and calculations, are published on
the company website, together with an explanation of the
definitions used.
People methodology
People data are collected per business group and
consolidated at corporate level.
Brighter Living Solutions
For a definition of Brighter Living Solutions, see 'Explanation
of some concepts and ratios' on page 240. DSM reports
twice a year the percentage of Brighter Living Solutions within
the running business portfolio.
The sustainability assessments to support the qualification for
Brighter Living Solutions are required to be made by internal
Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) experts and reviewed using the
four-eyes principle with at least one internal, independent
senior LCA consultant. The financial data are validated with
the Corporate Sustainability department and consolidated as
DSM Brighter Living Solutions KPI performance and reviewed
by Group Control & Accounting.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  100 www.dsm.comIntroduction
Koninklijke DSM N.V. (Royal DSM) is a company limited by
shares listed on Euronext Amsterdam, managed by a
Managing Board together with an Executive Committee, and
an independent Supervisory Board. Members of the Managing
Board and the Supervisory Board are appointed (and, if
necessary, dismissed) by the General Meeting of
Shareholders.
The company is governed by Dutch law and by its Articles of
Association, which can be consulted on the company
website. The General Meeting of Shareholders decides on any
amendment to the Articles of Association by an absolute
majority of the votes cast. A decision to amend the Articles of
Association may only be taken at the proposal of the Managing
Board, subject to approval of the Supervisory Board.
DSM fully informs its stakeholders about its corporate
objectives, the way the company is managed, and the
company's performance. Its aim in doing so is to pursue an
open dialogue with its shareholders and other stakeholders.
DSM has an organizational structure built around business
groups that are empowered to carry out all short-term and
long-term business functions, in which activity they are
assisted by support and corporate functions, as well as by
regional organizations.
Managing Board and Executive Committee
Since 2015, DSM's management structure has been
strengthened by the establishment of an Executive
Committee. The Executive Committee was installed to enable
faster strategic alignment and operational execution by
increasing focus on the development of the business,
innovation and people. The members of the Executive
Committee are the Managing Board members as well as four
senior managers with respective responsibility for DSM
Nutritional Products (Chris Goppelsroeder), Corporate
Strategy & Acquisitions (Philip Eykerman), the DSM Innovation
Center (Rob van Leen), and Group People & Organization
(Peter Vrijsen, who was succeeded by Judith Wiese as of 1
January 2018). The latter four managers are appointed by the
Chairman of the Managing Board after consultation with the
Supervisory Board. The Executive Committee focuses on
topics such as the company's overall strategy and direction,
review of business results, functional and regional strategies,
budget-setting, and people and organization. The statutory
responsibilities of the Managing Board remain unchanged.
The Managing Board is ultimately responsible for the
company's strategy, its portfolio management, thedeployment of human capital and financial capital resources,
the company's risk management system, the company's
financial performance, and its performance in the area of
sustainability. It is hence also the Managing Board that is
accountable to the Supervisory Board for the company's
strategy and management. To this end, the full Managing
Board attends the Supervisory Board meetings, whereas the
other Executive Committee members attend those (parts of)
Supervisory Board meetings that are specifically relevant to
their area of responsibility.
The Managing Board consists of three or more members, to
be determined by the Supervisory Board. The current
composition of the Managing Board can be found in the
chapter 'Supervisory Board and Managing Board Royal DSM'
on page 131. Since the introduction of the Dutch Corporate
Governance Code in 2004, members of the Managing Board
have been appointed for a period of four years.
The members of the Managing Board are collectively
responsible for the management of the company.
Notwithstanding their collective responsibility within the
Managing Board, certain tasks and responsibilities for
business clusters and functional areas, as well as regional
responsibilities, have been assigned to individual members.
This distribution of tasks is published on the company
website.
The remuneration of the Managing Board members is
determined by the Supervisory Board based on the
remuneration policy approved by the General Meeting of
Shareholders. The remuneration policy for the Managing
Board can be found in the 'Report by the Supervisory Board'
under 'Remuneration policy for the Managing Board' on page
222.
The functioning of and decision-making within the Managing
Board and Executive Committee are governed by the
Regulations of the Managing Board, which are in accordance
with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code and can be found
on the company website.
In 2017, the Managing Board had nine formal meetings and
41 Executive Committee meetings, some of them by
teleconference. No Managing Board member had to be
excused from meetings during the year. In three Executive
Committee meetings, a member was excused due to other
commitments. In all cases, members who were unable to
attend provided any input they had to the meeting in advance
in writing or via other members.Corporate governance and risk
management
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  101 www.dsm.comSupervisory Board
The Supervisory Board comprises at least five members. The
current composition of the Supervisory Board can be found in
the chapter 'Supervisory Board and Managing Board Royal
DSM' on page 130. Members of the Supervisory Board are
appointed for a period of four years and may then be
reappointed for a period of four years. A Supervisory Board
member may then subsequently be reappointed for a period
of two years, which appointment may be extended by at most
two years. For reappointment after an eight-year period,
reasons must be provided in the report of the Supervisory
Board.
All current members of the Supervisory Board are independent
in accordance with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code.
The remuneration of the Supervisory Board members is
determined by the General Meeting of Shareholders. The
functioning of and decision-making within the Supervisory
Board are governed by the Regulations of the Supervisory
Board, which are in accordance with the Dutch Corporate
Governance Code and can be found on the company
website.
The Supervisory Board supervises the policy pursued by the
Managing Board, the Managing Board's performance of its
managerial duties, and the company's general course of
affairs, taking the interests of all the company's stakeholders
into account. Since the inception of an Executive Committee,
the Supervisory Board has also had the responsibility to
ensure that the checks and balances that are part of the two-
tier system are still taken into account, paying specific
attention to the dynamics between Managing Board and
Executive Committee. The Supervisory Board is enabled to do
so through the information provided to it by the Managing
Board.
The annual financial statements are approved by the
Supervisory Board and then submitted to the Annual General
Meeting of Shareholders (AGM) for adoption, accompanied by
an explanation by the Supervisory Board of how it carried out
its supervisory duties during the year under review.
In line with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, the
Supervisory Board has established from among its members
an Audit Committee, a Nomination Committee, and a
Remuneration Committee, besides which there is also a
Sustainability Committee.
The task of these committees is to prepare the decision-
making of the Supervisory Board. These committees are
governed by charters that have been drawn up in line with the
Dutch Corporate Governance Code and can be found on the
company website.Diversity
DSM strongly values diversity and endeavors to reflect this in
its Board memberships. The Supervisory Board has drafted
diversity policies for the Supervisory Board, the Managing
Board and the Executive Committee. These policies strive for
a balanced composition of the respective body, taking into
account gender, age, knowledge, experience, and nationality /
cultural background. In addition, for the composition of the
Supervisory Board, the board tenure is taken into account. In
terms of gender diversity, DSM strives for a composition of its
Supervisory Board, Managing Board and Executive
Committee, whereby at least 30% of the positions are held by
women and at least 30% by men, which is in line with Dutch
legislation. In order to ensure a balanced composition in terms
of nationality / cultural background, DSM's aim is not to have
more than 50% of the members of its Supervisory Board or
Executive Committee representing one nationality. While a
diverse composition in terms of nationality / cultural
background is also taken into account in the composition of
the Managing Board, no quantitative aim is set here, given the
relatively small number of Managing Board members.
The diversity policies are implemented by applying them to
nominations for (re)appointment of Supervisory Board and
Managing Board members as well as to appointments of
Executive Committee members. In 2017, two Supervisory
Board members were appointed, strengthening the diversity
within the Supervisory Board in terms of age, knowledge and
experience. With the appointment of Frits van Paasschen, a
member with a broad business background, including
knowledge of disruptive business models and digital
technology, was added. In view of Tom de Swaan stepping
down at the 2018 AGM, the continuity of the financial and
accounting experience and knowledge within the Supervisory
Board was ensured with the appointment of John Ramsay.
The same holds for the reappointment of Dimitri de Vreeze as
member of the Managing Board: this ensured the diversity in
experience and knowledge within the Managing Board, more
specifically the continuity of experience and knowledge with
respect to Materials. The diversity in terms of gender and
nationality / cultural background in DSM's Executive
Committee was strengthened with the appointment of Judith
Wiese, who succeeded Peter Vrijsen as head of DSM's Group
People & Organization as of 1 January 2018. All in all, both
DSM's Supervisory Board and Managing Board were well
balanced in 2017 in terms of gender, with 38% (rising to 43%
after the 2018 AGM, with Tom de Swaan stepping down) and
33% women respectively, which is in line with Dutch legislation
in this regard. With the appointment of Judith Wiese, the
gender diversity within DSM's Executive Committee will rise to
29% women, coming very close to the target of 30% of the
positions being held by women and at least 30% by men. The
composition of both DSM's Supervisory Board and the
Executive Committee are in line with the target of not having
more than 50% of the members representing one nationality.
Furthermore, in the Supervisory Board of DSM Nederland
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  102 www.dsm.comB.V., a subsidiary of Royal DSM, one of the three members is
female.
General Meeting of Shareholders
The main powers of the General Meeting of Shareholders
relate to:
-
the appointment, suspension and dismissal of members of
the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board;
-approval of the remuneration policy of the Managing Board;
- approval of the remuneration of the Supervisory Board;
- the adoption of the annual financial statements and
declaration of dividends on ordinary shares;
-release from liability of the members of the Managing Board
and the Supervisory Board;
- issuance of shares or rights to shares, restriction or
exclusion of pre-emptive rights of shareholders and
repurchase or cancellation of shares;
- amendments to the Articles of Association; and
- decisions of the Managing Board that would entail a
significant change in the identity or character of DSM or its
business.
The AGM is held within six months of the end of the financial
year in order to discuss and, if applicable, adopt the annual
report, the annual accounts, any appointments of members of
the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board, and any of
the other topics mentioned above.The AGM and, if necessary, other General Meetings of
Shareholders are called by the Managing Board or the
Supervisory Board. The agenda and explanatory notes are
published on the company website.
According to the Articles of Association, shareholders who,
individually or jointly, represent at least 1% of the issued capital
have the right to request to the Managing Board or the
Supervisory Board that items be placed on the agenda. Such
requests need to be received in writing by the Chairman of the
Managing Board or the Supervisory Board at least 60 days
before the date of the General Meeting of Shareholders.
The AGM was held on 3 May 2017. The agenda was to a
large extent similar to that of previous years. Additional topics
were the appointment of John Ramsay and Frits van
Paasschen as members of the Supervisory Board and the
reappointment of Dimitri de Vreeze as member of the
Managing Board. The Articles of Association were amended
to reflect a change in the way the dividend percentage on the
Cumulative Preference Shares A is calculated. Further details
can be found on the company website.
Control effectiveness and continuity assumption
The 'Statements of the Managing Board' are reported on page
117. These conform with the Dutch Corporate Governance
Code best practice 1.4.3 on 'Board Statements'.
Corporate
R
isk 
ManagementManagement
reporting &
corporate 
controlInternal 
Control 
FrameworkRepresentation
letterOperational 
complianceCorporate
Operational 
AuditContinuously 
impacting
Top-down guided
Creati
ng upward
transparency
Risk assessmentInternal environment
Control activities
Information & 
communication
Monitoring
Control Effectiveness and Continuity AssumptionCOSO-ERM elementsManaging Board’s 
‘in control’ statement
DSM visualized its control environment as a 'house' that
includes the internal control process areas with control
measures related to the strategic, operational, complianceand reporting risks. The elements of COSO (the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission)
provide a framework for identifying the DSM activities that areCorporate governance and risk management — Introduction
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  103 www.dsm.comexecuted to ensure the control environment is adequately
structured. Finally, to ensure a learning curve is achieved,
monitoring activities include sharing findings, experiences, and
control measures across the supporting pillars.
DSM has a three lines of defense structure to manage risks,
see also 'Risk management' on page 112. Corporate
Operational Audit (COA) is in the third line of defense. The
scope and frequency of the COA audits is set according to the
ranking of the auditable units by the magnitude of risk, based
on a limited number of defined characteristics.
COA assesses the operation of risk management activities by
the units as well as the design of the risk management and
internal control systems by performing risk-based audits
looking at the key processes and activities for the specific
units. With these audits, COA closes the risk management
cycle and provides additional assurance to the Managing
Board on the effectiveness of the design and operation of the
risk management and internal control systems.
COA reports its audit results twice a year to the Managing
Board. It also shares an overview with the Audit Committee of
the Supervisory Board and communicates the executive
summary of each audit report to the CFO and CEO.
In 2017, COA executed 51 audits. In general, findings are
considered improvement opportunities as part of a healthy
learning culture. In about 5% of the audited areas (e.g.
operations, finance, SHE, commercial) significant
management attention was needed to come to the DSM
standard. In the rare event of insufficient follow-up of a finding,
the Director of COA escalates the finding to the CEO.
Dutch Corporate Governance Code
DSM supports the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, which
was most recently amended in 2016 and is applicable as of
the financial year 2017. The Dutch Corporate Governance
Code can be found on
www.commissiecorporategovernance.nl.
DSM ensures its continued compliance with the Dutch
Corporate Governance Code, and has worked on
implementing the amendments in its internal regulations and
practices where applicable. The last step in this process will
be the amendment of DSM's Articles of Association, for
approval by the 2018 General Meeting of Shareholders.
Long-term value creation is embedded in both DSM's
Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable Growth and the company's
culture: our mission is to create brighter lives for people today
and generations to come. Sustainability is at the core of how
we fulfill that mission, and to achieve this, DSM considers
People, Planet and Profit in all we do. With our Strategy 2018,
we drive our business and innovation strategies in order toaddress the challenges of nutrition & health, climate & energy
and resource scarcity. More information on how long-term
value creation is fundamental to our strategy and culture can
be found in the Strategy and People sections of this annual
report, as well as on page 24 (which describes how we create
value for all our stakeholders) and on page 10 (which describes
how DSM engages with the SDGs).
With respect to the appointment of members of the Managing
Board for a period of at most four years (Best Practice 2.2), it
should be noted that DSM has adhered to this Best Practice
since the introduction of the Dutch Corporate Governance
Code in 2004. Since DSM respects agreements made before
the introduction of the said code, the current Chairman of the
Managing Board will remain appointed for an indefinite period.
Any substantial change in the corporate governance structure
of the company and in the company's compliance with the
code shall be submitted to the General Meeting of
Shareholders for discussion under a separate agenda item.
All documents related to the implementation of the Dutch
Corporate Governance Code at DSM can be found in the
'Corporate Governance' section of the company website.
Governance framework
Organizational & operating model
Business groups are the main building-blocks of DSM's
organization; they have integral long-term and short-term
business responsibility, and have at their disposal all functions
that are crucial to their business success. As the primary
organizational and entrepreneurial building-blocks, they focus
on four primary business functions: Innovation and R&D,
Direct Sourcing, Manufacturing & Operations, and Marketing
& Sales. Intra-company product supplies are contracted by
the business groups on an arm's-length basis.
The business groups are organized into clusters, thus ensuring
coherence of operations and the leveraging of resources
within each cluster. The clusters are the main organizational
entities for external strategic and financial reporting. This
structure ensures flexibility, efficiency and speed of response
to market changes. In order to ensure sufficient independence
with regard to financial management, the Chief Financial
Officer (CFO) has no business groups reporting to her.
DSM's business groups receive services from global support
functions and functional excellence departments, and are
supported by the regional organizations. This set-up enables
DSM to create a global high-performing organization focused
on meeting its targets and achieving its ambitions. The support
functions and functional excellence departments are paid for
the services they supply by the users, which are for the greater
part the business groups and to a lesser extent other DSM
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  104 www.dsm.comunits. Corporate departments are paid from a corporate
budget.
Support functions provide those services that can be delivered
more efficiently (in terms of total cost of ownership for DSM)
by leveraging them across the company, thus capturing scale
benefits and delivering higher quality at lower cost, rather than
having them arranged in each business group separately.
Within support functions, centers of expertise provide
specialist support, while shared service centers provide
standard transactional support. Business partnering is the
concept that acts as the interface between the business
groups and the support functions. Business partners
consequently have a second reporting line in the business. In
order to ensure that the functional policies sufficiently reflect
regional requirements, the support functions work closely with
the regional organizations and integrate their advice. Each
support function reports to a Managing Board member. There
are support functions in the areas of Finance, People &
Organization, Legal, Indirect Sourcing, Communications, and
ICT. Corporate functions (small, high-level groups) supporting
the Managing Board and Executive Committee are also seen
as support functions. Corporate departments are: Corporate
Strategy & Acquisitions, Corporate Operational Audit,
Corporate Risk Management, Corporate Sustainability,
Corporate Investor Relations, and Corporate Affairs.
Functional excellence departments are mandated by the
Managing Board to help the businesses to achieve excellence.
They cover the areas of Operations & Responsible Care,
Marketing & Sales, and Science & Technology. Functional
excellence departments support businesses in improving their
performance and provide guidance in setting aspiration levels
and targets.
Governance framework
The following figure depicts DSM's overall governance
framework and the most important governance elements and
regulations at each level.
Supervisory
Board Articles of 
Association
• Regulations of
 the Supervisory Board
• Charter of the Audit Committee
• Charter of the Nomination Committee
• Charter of the Remuneration Committee 
• Charter of the Sustainability Committee 
• Regulations of the Managing Board
• Management Framework for the 
   corporate level
• DSM Code of Business Conduct 
Management Framework for 
operational unitsOperational
unitsManaging
Board / 
Corporate  ShareholdersFor the sake of clarity, a short summary of the main aspects
of the framework at Managing Board / corporate level and
operational level is given here:
-
The Managing Board and Executive Committee adhere to
the Regulations of the Managing Board.
- The Managing Board and Executive Committee work
according to the Management Framework for the corporate
level. This implies, among other things, that they adhere to
the DSM Code of Business Conduct and applicable
corporate policies and requirements. The Management
Framework for the corporate level further provides a
description of the most important (decision-making)
processes, responsibilities and 'rules of the game' at
Managing Board, Executive Committee, functional and
regional levels, and includes the governance relations with
the immediately superior levels (Supervisory Board and
shareholders) and the operational units.
The company's strategic direction and objectives are set by
means of a Corporate Strategy Dialogue. In November 2015,
DSM presented the outcome of the latest Corporate Strategy
Dialogue: 'Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable Growth' , which is
described in detail in DSM's Integrated Annual Report 2015
and on the company website. As we delivered well ahead of
this strategy for the second year in a row in 2017, we brought
forward our regular strategy review process for the period
beyond 2018.
The operational units conduct their business within the
parameters of the Management Framework for operational
units. This implies, among other things, that they:
- comply with the DSM Code of Business Conduct,
Corporate Requirements and Directives;Corporate governance and risk management — Governance framework
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  105 www.dsm.com-establish the strategy, objectives and operational targets of
their business according to the Business Strategy Dialogue,
aligned with the Corporate Strategy Dialogue, in which
various scenarios and related risk profiles are investigated,
and report on the achievement thereof;
-implement risk management actions according to an Annual
Risk Management Plan and in line with corporate policies;
-
execute DSM-wide standards for support functions
(systems, processes, vendors, etc.); and
- execute the annual functional improvement plans, monitor
the effectiveness of the risk management and internal
control system by process risk assessments and internal
audits, and regularly discuss the findings with the
responsible Executive Committee member.
Independent audits for all operational units are conducted by
the Corporate Operational Audit (COA) department. The
Director of COA reports to the CFO and has access to the
Chairman of the Managing Board, the external auditor and the
Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board. Furthermore, the
Director of COA acts as the compliance officer with regard to
inside information and is the secretary of the Disclosure
Committee, as well as being chairman of the DSM Alert
Committee, which is responsible for the DSM whistleblower
policy, systems and processes. Chaired by the CFO, the
Disclosure Committee ensures the timely and accurate
disclosure of share-price-sensitive information related to the
company and is responsible for the implementation of the
DSM rules on the holding and execution of transactions in
DSM financial instruments, among other things. A third
committee at corporate level is the Fraud Committee, which
was installed to ensure structural follow-up of fraud cases with
the aim of reducing fraud exposure. Relevant corporate
functions participate in the Fraud Committee under the
chairmanship of the CFO.
Sustainability Governance Framework
Managing Board
Sustainability falls under the responsibility of the Managing
Board. While CEO/Chairman of the Managing Board Feike
Sijbesma is the primary point of contact, other members also
chair sustainability topics and initiatives. In 2017:-Feike Sijbesma oversaw sustainability as a key responsibility
and company value as well as a business growth driver. He
also oversaw DSM's engagement with organizations
including the United Nations and the World Bank, the
strategic partnership with the World Economic Forum,
nutrition related initiatives including the WFP partnership,
and chaired the Inclusion & Diversity Council;
-
Geraldine Matchett integrated sustainability into financial
decision making and represented DSM in the Accounting
for Sustainability (A4S) CFO Leadership Network. She also
oversaw our efforts and commitment towards the Taskforce
for Climate-related Financial Disclosures recommendations;
and
- Dimitri de Vreeze was responsible for Safety, Health and
Environment (SHE) and also oversaw DSM's Supplier
Sustainability Program and the sourcing of electricity from
renewable sources in his responsibility for the Sourcing
function.
Supervisory Board
DSM's Supervisory Board has appointed its own Sustainability
Committee to oversee progress against targets and report on
the embedding of sustainability across the organization. For
more details see 'Supervisory Board report' on page 122.
External Sustainability Advisory Board
Comprising a diverse international group of thought leaders,
DSM's Sustainability Advisory Board acts as a sparring partner
for the Managing Board and senior executives, to help sharpen
their focus on strategic issues, deepen their understanding of
external stakeholder needs, conduct advocacy and handle
dilemmas. This board met twice in 2017 together with the
Managing Board and a number of senior executives. Subjects
discussed included DSM's corporate sustainability strategy,
innovation project updates, climate strategy, circular and bio-
based solutions, and a feedback session on the Bright Minds
Challenge and possible next steps. They also had the
opportunity to visit the new Rosalind Franklin Biotechnology
Center in Delft (Netherlands). At the same time, Jessica Fanzo
who joined in late 2016 and Robin Chase who joined in 2017
were welcomed to the Sustainability Advisory Board by Feike
Sijbesma.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  106 www.dsm.comSustainability Advisory Board
Member Background
  
Robin Chase (f) Co-founder and former CEO of Zipcar, co-founder of Veniam, board member of the World
Resources Institute, and Tucows, and serves as an informal advisor to many cities, national
governments, and transport agencies on the transition to shared automated vehicles. Nationality:
American.
Jessica Fanzo (f) Bloomberg Distinguished Associate Professor of Ethics and Global Food & Agriculture at the Johns
Hopkins Berman Institute of Bioethics, the School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS), and
the Bloomberg School of Public Health, Department of International Health, Director of the Global
Food Ethics and Policy Program and co-chair of the Global Nutrition Report. She has previously
held positions in nutrition advisory, advocacy and research organizations in the US, Rome (Italy)
and Kenya. Nationality: American.
Paul Gilding (m) Social entrepreneur, author and corporate strategy advisor. Fellow at the University of Cambridge
Institute for Sustainability Leadership (UK). In 2011, he published his book 'The Great Disruption'.
In the 1990s, he was executive director of Greenpeace International. Nationality: Australian.
David King (m) Partner at SYSTEMIQ since 2017. Special representative for climate change of the UK government
from 2013 to 2017. From 2008 to 2012, he served as the founding director of the Smith School
of Enterprise and the Environment at the University of Oxford (UK). Chief Scientific Advisor to the
UK government 2000-2007. Nationality: British.
Ndidi Nwuneli (f) Social entrepreneur and Founder of LEAP Africa and co-founder of AACE Food Processing &
Distribution Ltd. (AACE Foods), an indigenous agro-processing company in Lagos (Nigeria). She
is also a partner at Sahel Capital, an advisory and private equity firm focused on the agribusiness
and manufacturing sectors in West Africa. Nationality: Nigerian.
Ye Qi (m) Cheung Kong professor of Environmental Policy and director of Brooking-Tsinghua Center for
Public Policy at Tsinghua University in Beijing (China). Before he joined Tsinghua, he taught at
Beijing Normal University, and the University of California at Berkeley (California, USA). Nationality:
American.
Global network
At a corporate level, sustainability is steered by the
Sustainability Leadership Team, a group of senior executives
representing the business groups and contributing corporate
functions, which is chaired by the Vice President Sustainability.
He leads the Corporate Sustainability department and reports
directly to CEO Feike Sijbesma. The aim of the Corporate
Sustainability staff is to be a business-oriented center of
excellence and partner on sustainability, internally and
externally.
The Sustainability Leadership Team meets quarterly to monitor
the progress of sustainability across the company, with
particular emphasis on steering the company's business and
innovation portfolio on key drivers. Regional operational
sustainability networks are in place in China, India, Latin
America and North America.The DSM Operations & Responsible Care department is
responsible for all corporate issues related to SHE. The Senior
Vice President DSM Operations & Responsible Care reports
directly to the Managing Board. SHE managers provide
support at business group level. The DSM SHE Council, which
includes all business group SHE managers, is instrumental in
sharing experiences and developing best practices and
communications on SHE issues.Corporate governance and risk management — Governance framework
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  107 www.dsm.comDSM Code of Business Conduct
Introduction
The DSM Code of Business Conduct ('the Code') serves as
an umbrella for several other DSM regulations and forms the
basis for the company's ethical business behavior. In 2017,
we updated the Code to emphasize the importance of long-
term value creation and our company culture as well as to align
it more closely with daily operations. This included:
-
Strengthening our sustainability ambitions by anchoring
Brighter Living Solutions into our mission and adding new
business principles on low-carbon innovations and water
security;
- Simplifying existing business principles by reducing the
number of principles from 31 to 17; and
- Clearly outlining our aspired company culture, which is
supported by the 'ONE DSM Culture Agenda' (see page
40) and the 'DSM Leadership Model' (see page 39).Our corporate Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable Growth builds
on this foundation. Additionally, we made the Code's e-
learning course more user-friendly. It is shorter, customized for
the main business functions and includes a simple refresher
for long-term employees.
All DSM employees are expected to follow the Code, which is
available in seven languages. The full text also appears on the
company website. The Managing Board holds DSM's unit
management accountable for compliance.
Certification 
via e-learning for:
All employees Code of Business
C
onductBasic Course
Responsible Care
PrivacySpecific target
audiencesDSM Code of Business Conduct 
and values training program
Competition 
LawAnti-Bribery 
& C
orruptionGlobal Trade 
ControlsUnlawful Harassment 
Prevent
ion
Dilemma WorkshopsMission
Core Value:
Sus
tainability
Code of Business Conduct:
17 principles
Key Security
Beha
viorsLife Saving
Rules
The DSM values training program contains several e-learning
courses on these regulations for all employees or, for certain
subject matter, target groups. In 2017, many e-learnings were
improved by providing shorter, more inspiring, and targeted
content. When DSM acquires a business, integration and
compliance plans are rolled out to make sure new employees
are trained.
DSM's regulations cover the three dimensions of People,
Planet and Profit, of which the most important are listed here:
People: To support DSM's ambition to create an incident-free
and injury-free workplace, the Life Saving Rules specify the 12most important rules that must be followed by all employees
to prevent incidents.
The Unlawful Harassment Prevention e-learning emphasizes
the importance of the cultural, diversity and non-discrimination
aspects of the Code and focuses on effective employee
relations, communications, and non-discriminatory practices.
The DSM Privacy Code for Employee Data and the DSM
Privacy Code for Customer, Supplier and Business Partner
Data prescribe mandatory training for Privacy Officers, HR
employees, legal counsels and employees who regularly work
with personal data. Anticipating the new European General
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  108 www.dsm.comData Protection Regulation that comes into force in 2018,
privacy procedures were reviewed and adjusted in 2017. The
corresponding Privacy e-learning was adjusted accordingly.
A Human Rights position paper is available on the company
website. For more information, see 'Human rights' on page
41.
Planet: The Basic Course Responsible Care addresses the
elements of the Responsible Care Program: Safety, Health,
and Environment; Product Stewardship; Security and
Sustainability.
Profit: DSM has e-learnings for Global Competition Law
Principles and Practices and Global Trade Controls.
Compliance is embedded in DSM's systems and processes.
DSM master data is screened to check customers and
suppliers against embargoes and lists of sanctioned parties.
The DSM Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABC) Policy and
Compliance Manual is shared with selected employees in
commercial and business roles. When needed, we have
translated this into local language to facilitate better
understanding. For example, a Chinese translation of the DSM
ABC Policy and Compliance Manual, an easy-to-use ABC
checklist, and ABC classroom training are available (integrated
into the Competition Law classroom program). The ABC due
diligence program for agents and distributors was further
implemented during 2017.
The Security e-learning covers DSM's seven Key Security
Behaviors. To complete the e-learning, employees are
required to read and sign off on the DSM Code of Conduct for
Information Security.
DSM also has rules in place on the holding of and execution
of transactions in DSM financial instruments and certain other
financial instruments related to trading in DSM shares, and
where applicable, shares and related financial instruments in
other companies. These apply to all relevant employees,
including the Executive Committee, the Managing Board, and
the Supervisory Board.
Value chain
The business principles most relevant to the supply chain are
brought together in the Supplier Code of Conduct and are also
structured along the three sustainability dimensions of People,
Planet and Profit. The Supplier Code of Conduct, available on
the company website in eight languages, is signed off by
suppliers in framework contracts, confirming their
commitment to sustainability, among other things.
For distributor and agent contracts, the ABC Policy is being
translated into terms and conditions that ensure ethicalbusiness conduct when these parties act on behalf of DSM or
deal with DSM products further down the value chain.
Training and awareness
Employees must regularly refresh their DSM values training.
The implementation of this training program continues to
progress well. In 2017, a new learning management system
has been rolled out globally, see 'Learning & Development at
DSM' on page 38. More than 2,000 employees previously
using classroom training now have online access to all e-
learning courses, greatly increasing efficiency.
At year-end, most employees had completed or refreshed
their training (excluding employees of some recently acquired
businesses). Certain elements of the program are offered to
selected contractors as well as to employees in DSM's joint
ventures.
A Review Team, chaired by the Vice President Corporate Risk
Management, monitors implementation of the DSM values
training program. This team also monitors internal and external
developments around corporate ethics in order to promote
and safeguard the company's values and reputation.
Employees for whom competition laws are most relevant must
confirm their compliance with the rules set out in the DSM
Competition Law Compliance Manual. In this statement, they
confirm that they are not aware of any violation of competition
laws by DSM. Sign-off levels are excellent. Alleged breaches
are reported to, and discussed with, Group Legal Affairs. In
2017, no breaches were reported.
Even with training, sometimes employees may come across
dilemmas when they put the Code into practice. Employees
can request dilemma workshops to calibrate 'what is right' and
'what is wrong'. These workshops build on DSM's company
culture, which is based on openness, fairness, and trust. This
helps continuously improve business integrity in daily
operations.
Letter of Representation
At the end of each year, the management of all 33 operational
units sign off on a Letter of Representation. With this, they
confirm the compliance of the unit and its employees with
applicable laws and regulations, the Code and related values
training, and DSM's corporate policies and requirements (see
'Risk management' on page 112).
Consequence management
DSM applies zero-tolerance consequence management to
violations of the Code. Under our whistleblower procedure
(DSM Alert), most Code incidents are reported to and dealt
with by local line management. Where this is not consideredCorporate governance and risk management — DSM Code of Business Conduct
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  109 www.dsm.comappropriate, complaints are made directly to the DSM Alert
Officer. In all cases, consequence management practices (e.g.
official warning, temporary suspension, dismissal) are in place
to support compliance with the Code. The DSM Alert Officer
reports to the Managing Board and reports independently to
the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board twice a year.
Non-DSM employees wishing to voice a concern regarding
violations of the Code can also contact the DSM Alert Officer
via the company website.
In 2017, 24 Alert cases (reports of potential violations of the
Code) were received, two of which were reported by an
external person or party. This is at the same level as in previous
years. There were two potential bribery and corruption cases
reported. One case has been investigated, but the report
could not be substantiated. The other case is still under
investigation.
The table on the following page gives an overview of all
reported Code violations, with a breakdown per Triple P
dimension and per region. Proven serious violations of theCode can result in dismissal or other forms of consequence
management. In line with this policy, 36 employees were
dismissed in 2017 because of breaches of the Code or other
legal or local company regulations. In addition, 88 cases were
reported that have led to other kinds of consequence
management (official warning or suspension). Overall this is at
approximately the same level as in 2016.
People: Most of the cases in the People dimension are related
to violations of the Life Saving Rules or inappropriate behavior.
Safety and health in the workplace has a priority for the
company and incident-reporting channels are well known.
Planet: There was one violation of the Code reported in the
Planet dimension in 2017 due to irresponsible behavior by an
employee. This violation did not lead to a serious
environmental incident.
Profit: Most of the cases that were reported in the Profit
dimension were related to the incorrect registration of working
hours, conflicts of interest and fraudulent expense claims.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  110 www.dsm.comImplementation of the DSM values 2017 2016
Training and awareness e-learning: 
% of targeted employees trained   
General   
- Code of Business Conduct 90% 97%
People   
- Life Saving Rules 97% 99%
- Unlawful Harassment Prevention 88% 98%
- Data Privacy Knowledge 96% 90%
Planet   
- Basic Course Responsible Care 100% 98%
Profit   
- Global Trade Controls 96% 92%
- Anti-Bribery and Corruption 98% 93%
- Security 96% 97%
   
DSM Competition Law:   
% of targeted employees signed off   
- DSM Competition Law compliance annual statement 99% 99%
   
Violations of the Code:   
Number of dismissals / other consequence management   
Triple P breakdown   
- People 28/79 20/58
- Planet 0/1 3/5
- Profit 8/8 9/13
Regional breakdown   
- Europe & Africa 18/21 13/31
- Americas 13/61 14/37
- Asia-Pacific 5/6 5/8
Total 36/88 32/76
   
Alert cases (whistleblower procedure): 24 24
Number substantiated / not substantiated / under investigation   
Triple P breakdown   
- People 1/9/2 11/10/0
- Planet 0/0/0 0/0/0
- Profit 3/7/2 2/1/0
Regional breakdown   
- Europe & Africa 2/4/2 2/2/0
- Americas 1/7/1 7/9/0
- Asia-Pacific 1/5/1 4/0/0
Total 4/16/4 13/11/0Corporate governance and risk management — DSM Code of Business Conduct
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  111 www.dsm.comRisk management
The Managing Board is accountable for risk management associated with DSM's strategy and activities. To that end, adequate
risk management and internal control systems should be in place. The responsibility for identifying and managing risks lies within
the DSM units, supported by the Corporate Risk Management (CRM) department and regularly assessed by the Corporate
Operational Audit (COA) department both reporting directly to the CFO and COA having direct access to the CEO and the Audit
Committee of the Supervisory Board.
Audit 
CommitteeEnt
erprise Risk 
Management CSD, BSD, 
Ri
sk appetite
Letter of Representation
Inter
nal Control  
Internal/external auditDesign and effectiveness 
of Risk Management and 
Inter
nal Control verified 
by COA audits
CRA, BRA, PRA, others 
Mitig
ating actions 
Emerging risksCore Value Sustainability, 
the Code + other training,
 Corporate Requirements
Annual Report, 
RM system, plan, website, 
training, RM meetingsMonitoring and control 
acti
vitiesClose the loopMission /
Inter
nal environment
Risk assessment 
and r
esponseInformation and
communicationStrategy /
Objective settingDSM Risk Management Cycle
The Managing Board has in place a well-embedded risk
management, internal control system and organization in all
company units. The approach is based on the COSO-ERM
framework1. This chapter is structured accordingly (see figure
'DSM Risk Management Cycle').
A full description of DSM's risk management system and
process, together with a description of the identified risks, is
available on the company website. These descriptions are to
be considered an integral part of this Report.
It is the responsibility of the business groups, support
functions, functional excellence departments and regions (the
units) within DSM to set up, maintain, operate and monitor an
appropriate risk management and internal control system
within their area of responsibility. This responsibility includes
the management, monitoring, reporting and controlling of
risks. The units are supported in this by risk managers. COA
closes the loop with regular assessments of the design and
operational effectiveness of the risk management and internal
control systems.
1Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
Enterprise Risk Management-Integrated Framework.Mission / Internal environment
Values and business principles are key elements of the internal
environment for risk management and form the starting point
of the risk management cycle. DSM's core value is
sustainability, which is directly related to the company's
mission to create brighter lives for people today and
generations to come. All DSM employees receive regular
training on values and business principles per the framework
requirements. This starts with overarching training on the DSM
Code of Business Conduct.
In 2017, DSM introduced a new global risk management
operating model to improve the agility, effectiveness and
efficiency of its risk management activities. Risk managers will
have dual reporting lines:
-
A functional reporting line to guarantee the quality of risk
management and continuous improvement
- Business reporting lines to safeguard close connection to
business goals and operations
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  112 www.dsm.comWe have made it easier for employees to follow DSM's
Corporate Requirements by clearly communicating who
exactly needs to understand and adhere to specific
requirements. This included updates to our risk management
website, which was improved in 2017.
Strategy / Objective setting
DSM's Corporate Risk Management supports the Executive
Committee, business groups, and functions at the global and
regional levels to deliver on the company's strategy.Risk assessment and response
An important precursor to risk assessments is the company's
overall risk appetite, which is defined and updated annually by
the Executive Committee. In 2017, the overall risk appetite has
remained the same as in the previous year (see figure below).
DSM’s risk appetite
Generic/strategic
(e.g.: Innovation, People/organization/culture, 
Intellectual property, Raw materials/energy, Price/availability, 
Acquisitions and partnerships, Divestments, Brand)
Operational
(e.g.: Reputation, Customer, Project management, Production 
process, (Information-) Security, Business continuity, 
Product liability, Safety, Health and Environment)
Financial and reporting
(e.g.: Liquidity and market, Reporting integrity, Pensions, 
Financial risks (e.g. credit, tax))
Legal and compliance
(e.g.: Legal non-compliance, Non-compliance with DSM 
Requirements)Averse Minimalist Cautious Open Hungry
Risk assessments and mitigation plans are carried out at
various levels in the organization. DSM has a standard but
flexible, six-step approach to risk assessments:
-
Preparation
- Identification
- Analysis
- Evaluation
- Treatment
- Monitoring and reviewing
Risk assessments focus on various categories including
material, non-material and reputational risks. In 2017, we
identified additional opportunities for improving how we
facilitate, challenge, define and monitor mitigation efforts. As
a result, we will also update the risk assessment training
program.
Corporate Risk Assessment
DSM conducts a Corporate Risk Assessment (CRA), which is
the responsibility of the Managing Board. As part of the
assessment, the Executive Committee reviews and agrees on
top risks facing DSM, as well as emerging and other important
risks. They also agree on how to mitigate and monitor these.
The outcome of the CRA is reported to, and discussed with,the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board annually (see
table of top risks on page 115).
Business Risk Assessments
DSM's business groups also conduct assessments. Business
Risk Assessments (BRAs) and their equivalents for business
units, functions and regions are carried out with cross-
functional teams. These include experienced facilitators as
well as experts who can challenge assumptions to help
improve the quality of these risk assessments.
Process Risk Assessments
DSM conducts Process Risk Assessments (PRAs) which are
intended to make our processes as robust, business-specific
and fraud-proof as possible.
Project Risk Assessments
At the project level, risk assessments are performed on an
ongoing basis to secure successful delivery of project
objectives and value creation for the company.
Monitoring activities
DSM has various means of monitoring and related reporting.
These include monitoring of events, Letters of Representation
(LoR), external/internal audits, compliance checks, andCorporate governance and risk management — Risk management
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  113 www.dsm.comfunctioning of the common controls. Monitoring and reporting
is discussed in risk management committees in order to
evaluate and manage the status of the risk profile.
The most important types of risks for DSM's units, as well as
any incidents, are annually reported and reviewed mid-year
through the LoR, which all reporting units are required to sign.
This 'bottom-up' report is checked against the risks reported
by the CRA, as well as with the findings from the internal and
external audits.
DSM's risk managers also support internal audits to check the
effectiveness of the internal controls, compliance status and
risk mitigations, and incident repairs.
The consolidated overview of all aforementioned monitoring is
the basis for this risk section and the statements of the
Managing Board at the end of this section.
Control activities
Control activities are carried out by appointed unit risk
managers and unit risk management committees, who
regularly review:
-
compliance with training implementation, segregation of
duties, and follow-up of audits of various stakeholders;
- execution, follow-up and quality of the relevant set of risk
assessments; and
- best practices from internal and external sources to further
strengthen DSM's risk management cycle as well as to
ensure appropriate risk management awareness and
relevant training for DSM employees.
During 2017, DSM implemented a standard approach to
monitoring ERP access controls, user provisioning and
privileged user management for the majority of the company's
units. DSM started to bring relevant key controls for its main
supporting processes into an overarching Internal Control
Framework. Relevant function leads are currently mapping
their key controls, and this will enable DSM and its
stakeholders to have a comprehensive oversight of all Internal
Controls in scope. A pilot, as proof of concept, is planned for
2018.
Information and communication
Continuous efforts are made to inform employees about the
DSM risk management system and to support and/or trainthem in its use. In addition to the many initiatives from 2016,
the main deliverable in 2017 was the further development,
improvement and updating of the risk management training
curriculum and the risk management training program.
Assessment of the design and effectiveness of the risk
management and internal control system
DSM has three lines of defense to manage risks:
-
Line management within the units
- Risk management and internal control (on unit and
corporate level)
- COA
The effectiveness of the risk management activities by the first
line of defense is assessed by internal audits, coordinated by
the risk managers of the units being the second line of defense.
In addition to that, independent audits, some unannounced,
are conducted by COA (third line of defense) in a program that
was agreed with the Executive Committee and the Audit
Committee of the Supervisory Board.
The 2017 internal audits have not indicated any material
failings in the design and effectiveness of the internal risk
management and control systems of the company.
Risks
The preliminary outcome of the CRA was reported to and
discussed with the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board
in the meeting of December 2017. This 'top-down' outcome
corresponded very well with the 'bottom-up' risks and
incidents as reported by all the individual units in their Letter of
Representation, as well as with the findings from the internal
and external audits. This final risk profile was reported to and
discussed with the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board
in February 2018 and forms the basis for the main risks and
responses as reported in the table.
Top risks
The table on the next page shows the four most important
risks that might prevent DSM achieving the targets defined in
Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable Growth. It also describes the
mitigating actions. Top risks have a potential impact on DSM's
EBITDA of an indicative € 30 million or more, or have a large
non-financial impact such as on reputation.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  114 www.dsm.comTop risks and related mitigating actions
 
Description of risks Mitigating actions
  
Market environment and competition  
DSM has created a streamlined and simplified business
portfolio and a good platform for growth, as 2017's results
have shown. Nonetheless the risk remains of facing
increased competition for some product-market
combinations, especially from low cost/margin players, while
DSM actively needs to also manage capacity expansions for
selected products.
 The existing strength of the portfolio, as a result of continued
investments made in innovation, has resulted in a broadening
of DSM's product, application and customer base.
Nonetheless, improvements to marketing and sales
management programs (customer centricity, agility) will
continue to increase/protect the value captured, while the
company plans timely capacity expansions and/or external
sourcing to manage growth. Operational continuous
improvement programs also secure maximum output from
existing installations.
  
People, organization and culture  
In order to continue to deliver above-market growth and
retain strong operational efficiency, DSM requires a high-
quality pipeline for talents and good people development.
Although good progress has been made with the introduction
of a new talent management program, further improvements
may be required to fully embed a culture of agility and cost-
consciousness to support the organization in its growth
ambitions.DSM has adjusted its operating model and has strengthened
its top leadership to enhance accountability for performance.
All executives attended in 2017 a specifically designed 'Lead
& Grow' leadership program focused on managing rapid
change and uncertain business conditions. The monitoring of
progress in the talent pipeline will continue focusing on the
need to further enhance diversity.
 
  
Operating in a digital world  
Despite a good track record and having procedural and
system controls in place, cyber crime constantly needs
attention to protect our assets and information. This risk is
exacerbated by the accelerating pace of digitalization. In
addition, if DSM does not progress fast enough, delays in
digitalization is in itself a risk, impacting future
competitiveness.DSM is strengthening its governance structure around cyber
security, with particular attention to production plants and R&D
laboratory systems. Monitoring to detect security incidents and
incident response is in place. The company is also accelerating
the deployment of digital initiatives following a full IT and digital
transformation that took place in 2017, with the view to embed
a digital mindset in all parts of the organization.
  
Product portfolio and innovation-driven growth  
The quality and relevance of the current DSM portfolio of
products is fully reflected in the above-market growth rates
achieved in all businesses. To sustain this strong market
position DSM is investing in innovations for which the time to
market is uncertain. Delays in key projects constitute a risk to
mid-term sustainable growth and the company's ability to
maintain highly relevant product offerings.Product portfolio management has led to more focus in terms
of capital allocation and project prioritization. Top projects are
closely monitored, with a well-established stage-gate
approach and regular status reviews with the Executive
Committee. Where possible, time-to-market is shortened via
customer and/or innovation alliances.
The top risks as defined in 2017 relate largely to the same
topics as those identified in 2016. The main changes versus
2016 are:
-
Although still a risk, 'Geopolitical, global financial and
economic developments' has dropped out of the top risks
list as the global economic outlook has improved compared
to 2016 and related mitigation actions such as geographical
diversification are working.- The risk of 'Program and Project Management' has
decreased and is not a top risk anymore due to the good
progress made in 2017 on the cost reduction and
productivity improvement programs.
-The existing 2016 risks related to operating in a digital world
have increased and are now combined into a top risk.
-
The 2016 emerging risk relating to some longer-term DSM
Innovation projects is now reflected in the top risk 'Product
portfolio and innovation driven growth'.Corporate governance and risk management — Risk management
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  115 www.dsm.comEmerging risks
The following two emerging risks have been identified by the
Executive Committee. They are being carefully monitored so
that DSM can take action or use them as new opportunities in
a timely manner.
1. DSM's Nutrition and Materials markets may be disrupted by
longer-term changes such as:
-
new food preferences / food systems;
- potential impact of climate and health trends on animal
protein;
- innovations such as 3D printing;
-replacing fossil fuels by energy from renewable sources; and
- new mobility and transport options.
This could create a risk if the speed of change in the world is
higher than DSM's speed of adaptation to it.
2. DSM may not be able to adjust its environmental footprint
or respond to climate change related disruption in its end-
markets fast enough.
At the same time, these two emerging risks will also offer new
opportunities for DSM's Brighter Living Solutions.
Other important risks
Besides the top risks reported in the previous table and other
emerging risks that need to be taken into account, the CRA
has identified some other important (sometimes more
operational) risks. These include business continuity, product
liability, intellectual property and tax risks. The company's risk
management and internal control system has been designed
to monitor and respond to the maximum extent possible.Enhancement of the risk management system
During 2017, considerable effort was spent on the
development and design of a new global risk management
operating model, including dual reporting lines for risk
managers to ensure quality of risk management and close
connection to business goals and operations. Implementation
started in January 2018.
Other improvements to the risk management framework:
-
Long-term value creation and the company culture we
aspire has been included in the update of the Code, in line
with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code.
- Further simplification of several Corporate Requirements,
the Code, the corresponding training program (shorter,
more inspiring, and targeted content in e-learnings and a
new global learning management system has significantly
increased the efficiency of risk management.
- A project to update our Internal Control Framework has
been started because of changes in DSM's portfolio,
redesign of operating models, audit findings and the update
of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code.
As a standard practice, the Audit Committee of the
Supervisory Board was given in-depth insight into the status
of the DSM risk management system. This ensured that this
committee remained fully involved and aware of the status of,
and developments in, enterprise risk management and how
this has the potential to help achieve DSM's strategic
objectives.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  116 www.dsm.comStatements of the Managing Board
The Managing Board is responsible for the design and
operation of the internal risk management and control
systems. In discharging this responsibility, the Managing
Board has made a systematic assessment of the effectiveness
of the design and operation of the internal control and risk
management systems.
On the basis of this report and in accordance with best
practice 1.4.3 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code of
December 2016, and Article 5:25c of the Financial Supervision
Act, the aforementioned assessment and the current state of
affairs, to the best of its knowledge and belief, the Managing
Board confirms that:
-
the internal risk management and control systems of the
company provide reasonable assurance that financial
reporting does not contain any material inaccuracies;
- there have been no material failings in the effectiveness of
the internal risk management and control systems of the
company;
- there are no material risks or uncertainties that could
reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect
on the continuity of DSM's operations in the coming twelve
months; and
- there is a reasonable expectation that DSM will be able to
continue its operations and meet its liabilities for at least
twelve months, therefore it is appropriate to adopt the going
concern basis in preparing the financial reporting.It should be noted that the above does not imply that these
systems and procedures provide absolute assurance as to the
realization of operational and strategic business objectives, or
that they can prevent all misstatements, inaccuracies, errors,
fraud and non-compliances with legislation, rules and
regulations. Nor can they provide certainty that we will achieve
our objectives.
In view of all of the above, the Managing Board confirms that,
to the best of its knowledge and belief, the financial statements
give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial
position and profit or loss of the company, and that the
management report includes a fair review of the position at the
balance sheet date and the development and performance of
the business during the financial year, together with a
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that the
company faces.
Heerlen, 27 February 2018
 
The Managing Board
 
Feike Sijbesma, CEO/Chairman Managing Board
Geraldine Matchett, CFO
Dimitri de VreezeCorporate governance and risk management — Statements of the Managing Board
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  117 www.dsm.comIntroduction by the Chairman
x“
Our focus during 2016 had
been on delivery, and we fully
maintained this in 2017, with
positive results on many
fronts.  ”
Rob Routs, Chairman Supervisory Board
For DSM, 2017 was again a year of strong delivery. DSM
exceeded the targets set out in Strategy 2018: Driving
Profitable Growth. The strong focus on delivery that we
witnessed in 2016 continued in 2017 and is now clearly
anchored throughout the company.
We also successfully divested our remaining stake in Patheon
bringing total cash proceeds at about € 2 billion,
demonstrating our commitment to monetize the significant
value within our associates.
Being well ahead of the ambitions of Strategy 2018 and having
received the significant cash proceeds of Patheon earlier than
anticipated, the Supervisory Board fully supports the
Managing Board's intention to accelerate the regular strategy
review process for the period beyond 2018, while remaining
firmly in delivery mode.
During the second half of 2017, the Supervisory Board
dedicated several sessions to this strategy review process,
discussing also how to maintain the company's current
growth momentum and fully leverage the results of recent
improvement programs and investments in talent
development.
Safety has been the subject of serious discussion. There was
a tragic fatal accident at one of our plants in the US in 2017,
which came as a great shock. The Supervisory Board pays
close attention to both personal and process safety; these
have been recurring topics at our meetings. We remain
committed to the safety of all employees and contractors and
our goal is for DSM to be an incident- and injury-free company.
DSM continued to deliver well on its ambitious sustainability
goals as part of Strategy 2018. Sustainability is our core value
and a key business driver for the growth of the company.
Not only do we reduce our own environmental footprint and
enable our customers to do the same with our innovative
solutions, we also advocate on the issues that define our
times. DSM continues to be a positive voice, shapingdiscussions with organizations like the CEO Climate
Ambassadors of the World Economic Forum, the Carbon
Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC, convened by the World
Bank, supported by the UN, IMF and OECD) and We Mean
Business.
Our CEO Feike Sijbesma showed great leadership in this area
during 2017 especially regarding advocacy on climate action.
In recognition of the substantial role he played in supporting
the Paris Agreement (COP21) and in many other climate-
related negotiations and meetings since that historic
agreement, Mr. Sijbesma was invited to be an official speaker
and share the stage with heads of state at the One Planet
Summit organized by French President Macron in December.
During the summit, many countries announced the
introduction of carbon pricing — a significant breakthrough for
Mr. Sijbesma who co-chairs the Carbon Pricing Leadership
Coalition together with Mrs. Catherine McKenna, the
Canadian Minister of Environment.
This year, the site visits of the Supervisory Board took place in
the US, where we visited a range of different businesses
across DSM including DSM Venturing, i-Health, DSM
Biomedical, DSM-POET and DSM-Niaga. The US visit helped
my colleagues on the Supervisory Board to deepen their
understanding of some of the smaller businesses within DSM,
their various business models, and respective growth and
innovation opportunities. It also allowed us to interact with
management and other talent in North America.
Overall, 2017 was a very good year for DSM. On behalf of my
colleagues on the Supervisory Board, I would like to thank our
employees and DSM's leadership for their hard work and
commitment. I would also like to thank the many stakeholders
who continue to place their trust in DSM.
Report by the Supervisory Board
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  118 www.dsm.comSupervisory Board Report
This Report provides further information on the way the
Supervisory Board performed its duties in 2017. This concerns
supervising the policy pursued by the Managing Board, the
Managing Board's performance of its managerial duties, and
the general course of affairs within DSM and its businesses,
as well as assisting the Managing Board with advice, either
upon request or proactively. Finally, these duties also include
assessing the Managing Board's performance and ensuring
that their remuneration is in line with that performance and that
it provides the appropriate incentives. Since the inception of
an Executive Committee, the Supervisory Board has also been
responsible for ensuring that the checks and balances that are
part of the two-tier system are still taken into account, paying
specific attention to the dynamics between the Managing
Board and the Executive Committee.
The responsibility of supervising the policy pursued by the
Managing Board includes evaluating the way the Managing
Board implements DSM's strategy for long-term value
creation, and promotes a culture aimed at that value. Since
the company's mission is to create brighter lives for people
today and generations to come, long-term value creation is
embedded both in DSM's Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable
Growth and in the company culture. This is described in the
chapters 'Strategy' on page 18, 'People' on page 34 and
'Corporate governance' on page 101.
Composition of the Supervisory Board
The composition of the DSM Supervisory Board is diverse in
gender, nationality, background, knowledge and experience.
There are five men and three women. Three members are
Dutch, two American, one Dutch-American, one British and
one Singaporean. The Board's current members are Rob
Routs (Chairman), Tom de Swaan (Vice Chair), Victoria
Haynes, Eileen Kennedy, Pauline van der Meer Mohr, Frits van
Paasschen, Pradeep Pant and John Ramsay. For detailed
information on their backgrounds, see 'Corporate
Governance' on the company website and page 130 of this
Report.
Following best practice 2.1.10 of the Dutch Corporate
Governance Code, the Supervisory Board establishes that its
members are able to act critically and independently of one
another, the Managing Board and any particular interests
involved. To safeguard this, the Supervisory Board is
composed in such a way that all its members are independent
in the meaning of best practice 2.1.8 of the Dutch Corporate
Governance Code.
The targeted profile of the Supervisory Board is reflected in its
regulation, which is published on the company website
 under
'Corporate Governance'. The Supervisory Board has four
committees to cover key areas in greater detail: auditing,nominations (of the Supervisory Board and Managing Board),
remuneration (of the Supervisory Board and Managing Board),
and sustainability. Information on these committees is given
elsewhere in this chapter. The charters of the committees are
published on the company website under 'Corporate
Governance'.
The Supervisory Board furthermore regularly receives
information on relevant topics from senior leaders and experts
within DSM during committee meetings, full Supervisory
Board meetings, annual site visits and as part of their ongoing
professional education. In 2017, this was the case with
respect to the revision of the Dutch Corporate Governance
Code, the Clean Cow and Green Ocean projects, the
achievement of DSM's Group Sourcing function, the progress
of the POET-DSM joint venture, talent development, and IT
and cyber security. During its annual site visit, the Supervisory
Board actively takes the opportunity to interact with
employees at different levels within the company, from the
shop floor to senior leadership, thus collecting valuable
information and insights from various sources within DSM.
Relationship and stakeholder management
In performing its duties, the Supervisory Board acts in
accordance with the interests of the company and the
business connected with it, taking into consideration the
interests of the company's stakeholders. The Chairman of the
Supervisory Board is in regular close contact with the CEO/
Chairman of the Managing Board, as is the Chairman of the
Audit Committee with the CFO.
Furthermore, the Supervisory Board regularly interacts with
members of the Executive Committee who attend parts of
Supervisory Board meetings and participate in elements of the
yearly site visit of the Supervisory Board that are relevant to
their specific area of responsibility.
The Supervisory Board interacts with DSM employees on
various occasions and in various settings. Direct, one-on-one
contact between Supervisory Board members and Managing
Board members generally follows naturally from topics
discussed in the Supervisory Board meetings and matches the
members' respective fields of expertise. In view of that
expertise, Managing Board members also seek the advice of
Supervisory Board members on specific matters. The same
goes for contact with other employees. For example,
Supervisory Board member Pradeep Pant, has extensive
knowledge of Asian markets, and is in regular contact with our
senior management in that region. In another example,
Supervisory Board member Pauline van der Meer Mohr, who
has a clear HR profile, was one of the keynote speakers at an
internal DSM event about mentoring. The Chairman of the
Sustainability Committee, Eileen Kennedy, attended one of the
meetings of DSM's Sustainability Advisory Board. Our new
members John Ramsay and Frits van Paasschen hadReport by the Supervisory Board
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  119 www.dsm.comnumerous one-on-one meetings and visited several sites as
part of their introduction program.
The Supervisory Board has an active interest in maintaining a
good understanding of DSM's stakeholders and their
positions on various topics related to the company's areas ofbusiness. This includes shareholders' perceptions. The
Supervisory Board is informed of the position of other DSM
stakeholders by the Managing Board. In addition, the
Supervisory Board collects such information through its own
network.
Meeting attendance of the DSM Supervisory Board
Member Supervisory
Board
meetings1Audit
Committee
meetingsNomination
Committee
meetingsRemuneration
Committee
meetingsSustainability
Committee
meetings
Rob Routs (Chairman) 100% n.a.2100% 100% n.a.2
Tom de Swaan
(Deputy Chairman) 100% 100% n.a. 100% n.a.
Victoria Haynes 86%3100% n.a. 100% n.a.
Pierre Hochuli4100% 100% n.a. n.a. 100%
Eileen Kennedy 86%3n.a. 100% n.a. 100%
Pauline van der Meer Mohr 100% n.a. 100% 100% n.a.
Frits van Paasschen4100% n.a. 100% 100% n.a.
Pradeep Pant 100% 100% n.a. n.a. 100%
John Ramsay4100% 100% n.a. n.a. n.a.
1Attendance is reflected for the seven Supervisory Board meetings held in 2017. In three out of the four additional Supervisory Board calls that were also held in 2017 the decision
making had been delegated by the Supervisory Board to the Chair of the Board and the Chair of the Audit Committee, who both attended all the calls. During the fourth additional
Supervisory Board call, that pertained to the mandate to acquire Amyris Brasil Ltda and establish a long-term manufacturing partnership for Amyris' high-volume products, Eileen
Kennedy and Pauline van der Meer Mohr were unable to attend due to prior commitments and the short notice at which this call had to be planned.
2The Chair has a standing invitation and has attended 100% of the meetings.
3Victoria Haynes had to miss the additional, seventh Supervisory Board meeting which was planned in the course of 2017 following the decision to bring forward the regular
strategy review process. That meeting conflicted with a prior commitment of Victoria Haynes. Due to very bad weather circumstances Eileen Kennedy could not travel nor dial in
to one of the Supervisory Board meetings.
4Pierre Hochuli retired as member of the Supervisory Board as from the 2017 General Meeting of Shareholders. Frits van Paasschen and John Ramsay became members of the
Supervisory Board following their appointment at the 2017 General Meeting of Shareholders.
Supervision and advice
The Supervisory Board performs its duties of supervising and
advising the Managing Board with respect to both recurring
standard agenda items for Supervisory Board meetings and
to specific topics that become relevant at a given point in time.
The most prominent regular agenda item is an update on
business, financials and treasury topics. As part of this agenda
item, the Supervisory Board tracks DSM's financial
performance, approves the annual Finance Plan, and
deliberates on any additional treasury topics as needed. In
2017, the Supervisory Board discussed and approved the
share buy-back program to cover the company's
commitments under existing management and employee
option plans and its stock dividend policy. With input from the
Audit Committee, the Supervisory Board also discussed
DSM's policy for foreign exchange risk management.
Furthermore, the amendment of the dividend arrangements of
DSM's cumulative preference shares A was discussed with
the Supervisory Board prior to the 2017 General Meeting of
Shareholders, where this amendment was approved.In 2017, the Supervisory Board was actively involved in DSM's
strategy review process including the assessment as to the
extent DSM is on track with the execution of Strategy 2018.
Working sessions were held to identify relevant trends, risks
and opportunities as input for the strategy review process.
DSM's approach to the opportunities and threats presented
by the 'digital revolution' as expressed in the Digital Strategy
were reviewed together with the 'digital aiming points' that set
out measurable goals to be achieved through the application
of digital technologies in the coming years.
Site visits
Each year, the Supervisory Board takes a number of days to
visit DSM sites in a particular region. This fosters interaction
with employees across different areas of the company and
provides Supervisory Board members with opportunities for
continuing education. This year's visit took the Supervisory
Board to North America.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  120 www.dsm.comThe DSM Supervisory Board (from left to right): John Ramsay, Frits van Paasschen, Pauline van der Meer Mohr, Tom de Swaan (Deputy Chairman),
Victoria Haynes, Rob Routs (Chairman), Eileen Kennedy, Pradeep Pant.
Whereas in 2016 the site visit was designed in such a way that
the Supervisory Board followed the manufacturing chain of
DSM Nutritional Products in Switzerland, the site visit of 2017
gave an overview of a wide range of different businesses and
activities in North America. The visit to North America
deepened the Board's understanding of several of the
company's smaller businesses, such as i-Health and DSM
Biomedical, offering additional insights into their business
models, growth potential and innovation opportunities.
The North America visit began with a general overview of
DSM's business in the region as well as relevant political and
economic developments. The Board then received an update
on Venturing, a small team operating as part of DSM's
Innovation Center in North America. DSM Venturing takes
minority investments in start-ups, creating opportunities for
DSM's businesses.
The Supervisory Board were briefed in-depth on two specific
business models within DSM — the i-Health business and the
DSM-Niaga joint venture. Given the importance of customer-
centricity, the briefing on DSM-Niaga was combined with a
presentation by and discussion with representatives of
Mohawk, the second-largest flooring maker in the US. Under
the brand name Air.o™, Mohawk sells recyclable carpets
made from DSM-Niaga material.During the North America visit, the Supervisory Board traveled
to two facilities. The first was DSM's Biomedical facility in
Exton (Pennsylvania, USA). The visit to Exton provided insights
into the technologies applied and the innovation opportunities
of DSM Biomedical, the largest of the company's three
Emerging Business Areas. The second visit was to the
Advanced Biofuels facility of the POET-DSM joint venture in
Emmetsburg (Iowa, USA). This visit included interactions with
employees and with DSM's North American leadership, as
well as participation in a townhall meeting. The townhall
meeting was broadcast live across all DSM's North American
sites.
Finally, time was taken to reflect on the site visit, with the
participating Executive Committee members. Supervisory
Board members shared their impressions and offered specific
advice pertaining to the applied business models,
technologies and the talent development process.
In December, the Supervisory Board also visited the Rosalind
Franklin Laboratory in Delft (Netherlands) and learned more
about the biotechnology capabilities of DSM.Report by the Supervisory Board
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  121 www.dsm.comSupervisory Board meetings and performance evaluation
In 2017, the Supervisory Board held its six regular meetings in
the presence of the Managing Board, as well as one additional
meeting in the presence of the Managing Board, in order to be
able to dedicate sufficient time to the strategy review process.
The Supervisory Board also held four additional conference
calls. These were held to assess the procedure carried out
between the publication of DSM's full-year results 2016 and
the publication of its 2016 financial statements; to approve the
external auditor's fee for 2018; to approve the amendment of
the Articles of Association to adjust the way the dividend
percentage on the cumulative preference shares A is
calculated; and, finally, to give a mandate for the divestment
of Patheon and for the acquisition of Amyris Brasil Ltda.
Information on attendance of Board and Committee meetings
can be found on page 120.
The Supervisory Board also convenes in the absence of the
Managing Board, which usually happens before each meeting.
An evaluation of the Supervisory Board is performed once
every three years by an external advisor; this was the case in
2016. In the other two years, the evaluation of the Supervisory
Board is performed by means of a self-assessment consisting
of a written questionnaire, followed by in-depth, one-on-one
interviews between the Chairman and individual Supervisory
Board members.
As part of this evaluation, not only the collective performance
of the Supervisory Board and its Committees, but also that of
individual Supervisory Board members, was evaluated and
received feedback in the interviews conducted by the
Chairman. Furthermore, the Vice Chair interacted with all
Supervisory Board members to assess the performance of the
Chairman. The outcome of the evaluation was presented to,
and discussed with, the Supervisory Board in December, in
the absence of the Managing Board. While the Managing
Board's performance is also assessed as part of the
evaluation, this happens throughout the year as part of the
discussions on succession planning in the Nomination
Committee, and particularly when the performance appraisals
of the Managing Board members are discussed. The
Nomination Committee reports back on these discussions to
the full Board.
The overall feedback from the evaluation in 2017 was that the
Supervisory Board members work well together, and that
discussions are open and candid. The diversity of thinking
within the Supervisory Board and the willingness to engage
and challenge within the Supervisory Board and between
Supervisory Board and Managing Board are much
appreciated. The composition of the Supervisory Board is
viewed as balanced, and also its size of seven to eight
members works well. Key areas of strategy, business
performance and risk management are well covered. Althoughalready dealt with regularly, the Supervisory Board would be
pleased to spend even more time on major market
developments, DSM's external operating environment, and
lessons learned from major investments and acquisitions.
Committees
The Supervisory Board has four committees to cover key
areas in greater detail: nominations, remuneration,
sustainability, and auditing. These are described in more detail
below.
Board nominations
Members of the Nomination Committee are Rob Routs
(Chairman), Eileen Kennedy and Pauline van der Meer Mohr.
Feike Sijbesma and Peter Vrijsen, Executive Vice President
Group People & Organization, were also involved in the
discussions of the Committee. As of October 2017, Judith
Wiese, who succeeded Peter Vrijsen as of 1 January 2018
participated as part of her on-boarding. The Committee met
five times in 2017. The recommendations and minutes of all
Nomination Committee meetings were shared with the entire
Supervisory Board. This feedback included advice and
recommendations regarding topics to be approved by the full
Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board also has access to
all the meeting materials posted for the Nomination Committee
meetings.
In 2017, nomination discussions were focused on succession
planning for both the Managing Board and the Supervisory
Board. With respect to the Managing Board, the discussions
were focused on the talent pipeline available for succession of
Managing Board members. The Nomination Committee also
discussed the proposed nomination for reappointment of
Geraldine Matchett, whose first term as Managing Board
member will end in 2018. The nomination for reappointment
was fully endorsed by the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory
Board concluded that DSM greatly benefitted from Mrs.
Matchett's first tenure on the Managing Board, her qualities
as a well-rounded and international CFO, and her extensive
experience with external stakeholders.
The Supervisory Board established that the composition of the
Managing Board is diverse in nationality (with two Dutch
citizens, and one member with joint Swiss, British and French
citizenship), gender (two men, one woman), background,
knowledge and experience, and that it provides a good
foundation to support all clusters and business groups in
achieving their targets and thus to contributing to the company
strategy to drive profitable growth. For detailed background
information on all Managing Board members, see
the company website under 'Corporate Governance' and
page 131 of this Report.
Taking into account the Supervisory Board profile as laid down
in the Supervisory Board regulations, the Nomination
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  122 www.dsm.comCommittee continued discussions on the overall composition
of the Supervisory Board and discussed succession planning
for the Supervisory Board. It concluded that no specific profile
is currently lacking within the Board. With Tom de Swaan
reaching the maximum tenure as a member of the Supervisory
Board (with effect from the 2018 Annual General Meeting of
Shareholders), John Ramsay was appointed at the Annual
General Meeting of Shareholders of 2017 to ensure a smooth
transfer of the chairmanship of the Audit Committee in
particular. Based on the advice of the Nomination Committee,
the Supervisory Board also agreed to nominate Rob Routs for
reappointment to the 2018 General Meeting of Shareholders
for a two-year term. This nomination for reappointment is
founded on his extensive international experience, his
knowledge of the petrochemical industry, his broad
experience in the management of corporations, and his
qualities as Chairman of DSM's Supervisory Board, as
demonstrated during the past eight years. The on-going
regular strategic review and the fact that the Vice Chair will be
stepping down with effect from the 2018 Annual General
Meeting are additional reasons to safeguard continuity in the
Chairman's role, especially given the much-valued way in
which Rob Routs has fulfilled this role.
Board remuneration
The Remuneration Committee had five meetings and one
conference call in 2017. Pauline van der Meer Mohr
(Chairman), Victoria Haynes, Rob Routs and Tom de Swaan
are members of this committee. Recommendations and
minutes of the Remuneration Committee meetings were
shared with the full Supervisory Board and used to determine
the final remuneration of the members of the Managing Board.
The Supervisory Board also has access to all the meeting
materials posted for the Remuneration Committee meetings.
For more information on the remuneration policy see
'Remuneration policy of the Managing Board' on page 125
and implementation of that policy in 2017, see 'Remuneration
of Managing Board and Supervisory Board' on page 222.
Discussions were focused on the performance and the related
remuneration of the members of the Managing Board, in
respect of both company and individual performance in 2017,
as well as concerning the way the current remuneration policy
should be applied, given the targets set as part of Strategy
2018: Driving Profitable Growth. The performance and
remuneration of the Executive Committee members were also
discussed with the Remuneration Committee. Feike Sijbesma
and Peter Vrijsen were also partly involved in these
discussions, and, as of October 2017, so was Judith Wiese,
as part of her on-boarding. Mrs. Wiese succeeded Peter
Vrijsen as of 1 January 2018.
Sustainability
The Sustainability Committee prepares the Supervisory
Board's discussions on sustainability topics. The Sustainability
Committee met three times in 2017. This Committeecomprises Eileen Kennedy (Chairman), Pierre Hochuli (until the
Annual General Meeting of 2017), Pradeep Pant and, as of the
Annual General Meeting of 2017, Frits van Paasschen. The
Chairman of the Supervisory Board has a standing invitation,
and participated in all meetings. The recommendations and
minutes of these meetings were shared and discussed with
the entire Supervisory Board during its meetings with the
Managing Board. The Supervisory Board also has access to
all the meeting materials posted for the Sustainability
Committee meetings. The feedback from the Committee to
the full Board included advice and recommendations
regarding topics to be approved by the Supervisory Board, in
particular the sustainability reporting in this Report. Taking into
consideration the 'Assurance report of the independent
auditor' on the sustainability information' by KPMG on page
234 of this Report, the full Supervisory Board approved the
reporting in these sections in its meeting on 27 February 2018.
The Sustainability Information complies with the Standards of
the Global Reporting Initiative and the internal reporting criteria
of DSM, which are included in this Report, and is also aligned
with the international Integrated Reporting Council <IR>
Framework where possible.
During the year, a recurring topic was DSM's performance on
its People and Planet aspirations with a focus on Brighter
Living Solutions, Responsible Care and Inclusion & Diversity.
Through these discussions, the Sustainability Committee
followed up on the progress made with the implementation of
the sustainability and safety aspirations set by the company
as part of its Strategy 2018. Deep dives were made into
several topics. One of them was the way DSM monitors and
manages possible issues that can arise with DSM products.
As an example, DSM's positioning on industrial biotechnology
was discussed with the Committee. Another in-depth
discussion took place on the Brighter Living Solutions,
specifically, on the way this key performance indicator is
impacted by new innovations entering the market and the
effect of product / market mix performance fluctuations
caused by changing markets and changing mainstream
reference solutions. Time was also spent discussing the
actions being undertaken to further future-proof DSM by
reducing the company's climate impact and climate risk
exposure, by enabling a low-carbon economy, and by
advocating action externally and internally.
Furthermore, the Committee was updated on DSM's
performance in the various Environmental, Social and
Governance indices such as CDP, Sustainalytics, Fortune's
'Change the World' list and the Dow Jones Sustainability
World Index.
Financials and auditing
The activities of the Supervisory Board in the area of financials
and auditing are prepared by the Audit Committee. The Audit
Committee met five times in 2017, of which three times via
conference call. Tom de Swaan (Chairman), Victoria Haynes,Report by the Supervisory Board
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  123 www.dsm.comPierre Hochuli until the 2017 Annual General Meeting, Pradeep
Pant, and, both as of the 2017 Annual General Meeting, John
Ramsay and Frits van Paasschen are members of the Audit
Committee. All Supervisory Board members have a standing
invitation to attend Audit Committee meetings; in 2017, they
used this standing invitation for the regular conference calls in
which the financial developments and interim results for the
first and third quarter were discussed, as these are not
followed by a full Board meeting. The Chairman of the
Supervisory Board participated in all meetings and calls.
Whenever relevant, managers responsible for corporate
control, internal audit, risk management and compliance were
invited to explain developments in their areas to the Audit
Committee.
DSM's external auditor KPMG and the CFO also participated
in the Audit Committee's meetings and calls. The CEO
participated in the Audit Committee meetings and the call in
which the half-year results were discussed. At least once a
year, the Audit Committee meets with the external auditor
without the Managing Board being present. Two such
meetings took place in 2017. The highlights and the minutes
of all Audit Committee meetings were shared with the full
Supervisory Board. This feedback included advice and
recommendations regarding topics to be approved by the full
Supervisory Board. All Supervisory Board members also have
access to all the meeting materials posted for the Audit
Committee meetings.
The Committee had in-depth discussions on the company's
financials; the financing and guarantee plan; the capital
expenditure plan; dividend proposals; the financial
statements; accounting policy changes; internal risk
management and control systems; potential risks (including
Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) and security risks);
compliance with recommendations and observations made
by internal and external auditors, and on the role and
functioning of COA, including the endorsement of its proposed
audit plan for 2018, which was subsequently approved by the
full Board. As part of the Corporate Risk Assessment, the
company's main risks and their mitigation were discussed.
The Committee also discussed and evaluated cases
submitted under DSM's whistleblower policy (DSM Alert),
fraud cases, and on-going litigation. All these discussions
included mitigating actions to prevent recurrence. Discussions
were held with KPMG about the management letter, the audit
report and the financial statements for 2017. In 2017, the Audit
Committee formally evaluated the external auditor, and
discussed the reappointment of KPMG. Other specific topics
addressed during the Audit Committee meetings in 2017 were
cyber security, DSM's foreign exchange risk management,
and the foundation for the broadened in-control statement
included on page 117 of this Report.Financial statements 2017
The Report by the Managing Board and the financial
statements for 2017 were submitted by the Managing Board
to the Supervisory Board, in accordance with the provisions
of Article 30 of the Articles of Association, and subsequently
approved by the Supervisory Board on 27 February 2018. The
financial statements were audited by KPMG, who issued an
unqualified opinion, see the 'Independent auditor's report' on
page 229. The Supervisory Board established that the
external auditor was independent of DSM.
The Supervisory Board will submit the 2017 financial
statements to the 2018 Annual General Meeting of
Shareholders, and will propose that the shareholders adopt
them and release the Managing Board from all liability in
respect of its managerial activities and release the Supervisory
Board from all liability in respect of its supervision of the
Managing Board. The profit appropriation as proposed by the
Managing Board and approved by the Supervisory Board is
presented in the Profit section of this Report, starting on
page 52.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  124 www.dsm.comRemuneration policy for the Managing
Board
This chapter outlines the remuneration policy as approved by
the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders in 2013. Details
of the actual remuneration in 2017 as prepared by the
Remuneration Committee and approved by the Supervisory
Board can be found in Note 13 of the 'Parent company
financial statements' on page 222. Every year the Supervisory
Board elucidates the recent remuneration developments at
the Annual General Shareholders Meeting.
Remuneration policy
The objective of DSM's remuneration policy is to attract,
reward, motivate, incentivize and retain qualified and expert
individuals that the company needs to achieve its strategic and
operational objectives, with the right organizational set-up,
while acknowledging the societal context around
remuneration and recognizing the interests of DSM's
stakeholders. The following elements are taken into
consideration:
-
The remuneration policy reflects a balance between the
interests of DSM's main stakeholders as well as a balance
between the company's short-term and long-term strategy.
As a result, the structure of the remuneration package for
the Managing Board is designed to balance short-term
operational performance with the medium- and long-term
objective of creating sustainable value within the company,
while taking into account the interests of its stakeholders.
DSM sets a clear strategic direction and executes this with
agility. DSM strives for high financial performance, as well
as in the field of sustainability and aims to maintain a good
balance between economic gain, respect for people and
concern for the environment, in line with the DSM values and
business principles as reflected in the DSM Code of
Business Conduct.
-To ensure that highly skilled and qualified senior executives
can be attracted, motivated and retained DSM aims for a
total remuneration level that is comparable to levels
provided by other (Dutch and European) multinational
companies that are similar to DSM in terms of their size and
complexity.
-The remuneration policies for the members of the Managing
Board and for other Executive Committee members, as well
as for other senior executives of DSM, are aligned.
- In designing and setting the levels of remuneration for the
Managing Board, the Supervisory Board also takes into
account the relevant statutory provisions and the provisions
of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, societal and
market trends, and the interests of stakeholders.
- DSM's policy is to offer the Managing Board a total direct
compensation approaching the median of the labor-market
peer group.No adjustments to the remuneration policy for the Managing
Board in 2017
There were no adjustments to DSM's remuneration policy in
2017. The policy was last adjusted in 2013.
The approved adjustments at that time did not change the
overall remuneration model for the Managing Board. This
model is based on providing fair compensation approaching
the median, and consists of a base salary and a well-balanced
mix of Short-Term and Long-Term Incentives. Both the Short-
Term Incentive (STI) and the Long-Term Incentive (LTI) consist
of two equal parts, one of which is linked to financial targets
and the other to sustainability plus – for STI only – individual
targets. The policy will be reviewed again in 2018, to be
presented at the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders in
2019.
Labor-market peer group
To be able to recruit the right caliber of people for the
Managing Board and to secure long-term retention of the
current Board members, DSM takes external reference data
into account in determining adequate remuneration levels. For
this purpose, a specific labor-market peer group has been
defined, which consists of a number of Dutch and European
companies that are more or less comparable to DSM in terms
of size, international scope and the complexity of their
business portfolio. The Supervisory Board regularly reviews
this peer group to ensure that its composition is still
appropriate. This review was conducted in the fourth quarter
of 2017 and did not lead to a change in the current
composition of DSM's labor-market peer group.
The labor-market peer group for 2017 consisted of the
following 16 companies (eight of which are peers on the
Amsterdam stock exchange, the other eight being European
industry peers):
AkzoNobel KPN
ASML LANXESS
Clariant Lonza
Covestro Philips (Health Tech)
Evonik Randstad
Givaudan Relx (Reed Elsevier)
Heineken Solvay
Johnson Matthey Wolters Kluwer
As part of its remuneration policy DSM will benchmark its
remuneration package against the packages offered by the
labor-market peer group once every three years, potentially
leading to adjustments. In addition, the company may apply a
yearly increase to the base salary based on the 'general
increase' (market movement) for DSM executives in the
Netherlands.Report by the Supervisory Board — Remuneration policy for the Managing Board
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  125 www.dsm.comThe remuneration policy was benchmarked against the peer
group in the fourth quarter of 2017. DSM aims to offer
Managing Board members a total direct compensation
approaching the median of the labor-market peer group. The
Supervisory Board of DSM has determined that the
remuneration level of the CEO during the past years was
clearly lower than the median of the predetermined peer group
(first, lowest quartile). This is due to the conservative approach
of the CEO regarding his own remuneration. The remuneration
of the other members of the Managing Board is between first
quartile and median level.
Total Direct Compensation (TDC)
The total direct compensation of the Managing Board consists
of the following components:
(I)
Base salary
(II) Variable income 
- Performance-related STI (Deferral and Share Matching
Plan) 
- Performance-related LTI (Restricted Share Plan)
In addition to this total direct compensation, members of the
Managing Board participate in the Dutch pension scheme for
DSM employees in the Netherlands, and are entitled to other
benefits, such as a company car and representation
allowance.
Value as percentage of Total Direct Compensation (on target):
A: Base salary 50%
B: Variable income (STI + LTI)150%
  
Total Direct Compensation (TDC) 100%
1LTI at discounted fair value.
Base salary
On joining the Board, Managing Board members receive a
base salary approaching the median of the labor-market peer
group. Base salary levels are reviewed based on a three-year
remuneration benchmark. In addition, the company will, when
appropriate, apply a yearly increase to the base salary taking
into account the 'general increase' (market movement) for
DSM executives in the Netherlands, as well as the general
movements of the labor-market peer group. Adjustment of the
base salary is at the discretion of the Supervisory Board. In
July 2017, a salary increase of 2.2% was granted to the CEO,
and an increase of 2.5% to the other Managing Board
members.
Variable income
The variable income part of remuneration consists of the
Short-Term and Long-Term Incentives. The distributionbetween Short-Term and Long-Term Incentives for (on target)
performance aims to achieve a proper balance between short-
term result and long-term value creation. The parameters
relating to the various elements of the variable income part of
the remuneration are established and, where necessary
adjusted by, and at the discretion of, the Supervisory Board,
taking into account the general rules and principles of the
remuneration policy itself. Distribution of variable income (on-
target):
A: Short-Term Incentive (STI) 
(50% base salary) 50%
B: Long-Term Incentive (LTI)
(50% base salary)150%
  
Total variable income as % of base salary 100%
1LTI at discounted fair value.
Short-Term Incentive (STI)
Managing Board members are eligible to participate in an STI
scheme. The scheme is designed to reward short-term
operational performance with the long-term objective of
creating sustainable value, taking into account the interests of
all stakeholders.
The STI opportunity amounts to 50% of the annual base salary
for on-target performance (100% in the case of excellent over-
performance). Half of the STI opportunity (i.e. 25% of base
salary at on-target performance) is related to financial targets,
the other half to sustainability and individual (partly also
financial) targets.
Target areas Total Shared Individual
    
Financial 25% 25% 0%
Sustainability and
individual 25% 15% 10%
    
Total 50% 40% 10%
STI linked to financial targets
The part of the STI that is linked to shared financial targets
(25% of base salary at on-target) consists of elements related
to the company's focus on delivering the financial targets of
its Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable Growth. These are:
Adjusted EBITDA, which represents an opportunity at target
performance of 12.5%; gross free cash flow, with an
opportunity of 10%; and organic net sales growth, with a 2.5%
opportunity.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  126 www.dsm.comTarget areas On-target pay-out
(% of base salary)
Financial targets  
- Adjusted EBITDA 12.5
- Gross free cash flow 10.0
- Organic net sales growth12.5
  
Total 25.0
1Excluding currency fluctuations, acquisitions and divestments.
STI linked to sustainability and individual targets
The part of the STI that is linked to non-financial targets (25%
of base salary at on-target) relates to shared sustainability as
well as to individual targets. Further refinement/adaptations of
performance measures in the area of sustainability and their
relative weight may take place following proper evaluation.
The following shared measures linked to sustainability are
applicable for the STI:
-
Brighter Living Solutions (BLS): percentage of running
business that meets ECO+ and People+ criteria
- Employee Engagement Index: related to the High
Performance Norm in industry
- Safety Performance: defined as Frequency Index for
Recordable Injuries.
Definitions of these elements can be found in 'Explanation of
concepts and ratios' on page 240 and 'People' on page 34.
In addition to shared sustainability targets (15%), a limited
number of individual non-financial targets (10%) will apply.
Target areas On-target pay-out
(% of base salary)
Non-financial targets  
- Sustainability (three targets with an equal
weight of 5% each; BLS, Employee
Engagement and Safety) 15
- Individual 10
  
Total 25
The targets are determined each year by the Supervisory
Board, based on historical performance, the operational and
strategic outlook of the company in the short term, and the
expectations of the company's management and
stakeholders, among other things. The targets contribute to
the realization of the objective of long-term value creation.The company does not disclose the actual targets, as these
qualify as commercially sensitive information. However, full
transparency will be given on target areas and definitions. The
external auditors performed agreed-upon mandate
procedures on target-setting and realization. For detailed
information, see Note 13 of the 'Parent company financial
statements' on page 222.
Mandatory and voluntary deferral of STI
A mandatory proportion (25%) and a voluntary proportion (up
to a total maximum of 50% of the total gross STI) of the STI
amount earned in a year is deferred into DSM shares with a
three-year holding period. This is linked to a one-for-one
matching award on the total deferred amount under the
condition that predefined performance targets and measures
are met at the end of the three-year vesting period. The
performance measures are equivalent to the measures under
the Long-Term Incentive Plan. The Deferral and Share
Matching Plan thus provides an additional link between
Managing Board remuneration and long-term sustainable
value creation.
Long-Term Incentives (LTI)
The Managing Board members are eligible to receive
performance-related shares. Under the performance share
plan, shares will conditionally be granted to Managing Board
members. Vesting of these shares is conditional on the
achievement of certain predetermined performance targets at
the end of a three-year period.
The following four performance measures are applicable in
equal measure for the calculation of the vesting of LTI
performance shares:
-
Relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance
versus a peer group
- Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) growth
- Energy Efficiency Improvement (EEI)
-Greenhouse-gas Emissions (GHGE) Efficiency Improvement
The LTI performance targets can be defined as follows:
-Relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) 
This is used to compare the performance of different
companies' stocks and shares over time. It combines share
price appreciation and dividends paid to show the total
return to shareholders. The relative TSR position reflects the
market perception of overall performance relative to a
reference group.
-Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) growth
This is the operating profit as a percentage of weighted
average capital employed.
-Energy Efficiency Improvement (EEI) 
This is the reduction of the amount of energy that is used
per unit of product (known as energy efficiency) on a three-
year rolling average basis.Report by the Supervisory Board — Remuneration policy for the Managing Board
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  127 www.dsm.comGreenhouse-gas Emissions (GHGE) Efficiency
Improvement
This is the reduction of the amount of greenhouse-gas
emissions per unit of product. The definition of greenhouse
gases (GHG) according to the Kyoto Protocol includes
carbon dioxide (CO 2), methane, nitrous oxide (N 2O), sulfur
hexafluoride, hydrofluorocarbons and perfluorocarbons.
The scope for calculation of GHGE reduction is as follows:
(I)
DSM's direct emissions (on-site or from DSM assets)
mainly comprise CO 2 (scope 1).
(II)DSM's indirect emissions (emissions created on behalf
of DSM in the generation of electricity or the delivery of
energy via hot water or steam) relate to electricity from
the grid. DSM relies on local suppliers (scope 2).
In determining the number of shares to be conditionally
granted, the Supervisory Board takes into account the face
value of the DSM share instead of the discounted fair value.
This is in line with best practice and provides total
transparency to shareholders. The policy for the value of the
LTI is set at 100% of base salary when on target and 150% in
the case of excellent performance (face value). The number of
conditionally granted shares is set by dividing the policy level
at maximum (150% of base salary) by a share price at the
beginning of the year of the conditional grant. The annual grant
level will fluctuate as a consequence of this mechanism.
Granting date
The grant date of the conditional performance shares will be
the last trading day of March.
TSR as a performance measure
TSR counts for the vesting of 25% of the performance shares.
DSM's TSR performance is compared to the average TSR
performance of a set of predefined peer companies.
The TSR peer group for the 2017 performance period
consists of the following 14 companies:
  
AkzoNobel Evonik
Arkema Givaudan
BASF Kerry
Christian Hansen LANXESS
Clariant Lonza Group
Croda International Novozymes
DuPont Solvay
The TSR peer group reflects the relevant market which DSM's
Supervisory Board considers to be suitable benchmarks for
DSM.
The peer group is verified and updated by the Supervisory
Board each year based on market circumstances (such asmergers and acquisitions) that determine the appropriateness
of the composition of the performance peer group.
ROCE growth as a performance measure
ROCE growth counts for the vesting of 25% of the
performance shares.
EEI as a performance measure
EEI counts for the vesting of 25% of the performance shares.
GHGE Efficiency Improvement as a performance measure
GHGE Efficiency Improvement in percentage points (over a
three-year period) is used as a basis for the vesting of 25% of
the performance shares.
Performance incentive zones
The following vesting scheme has been established to reflect
DSM's sharpened, challenging targets for the strategy period
2016−2018:
TSR vesting scheme GHGE vesting scheme
 % of
shares that
vestDSM GHGE reduction in
% points
(3-year average
improvement)% of
shares
that vest
    
1 100 ≥ 8.25 100
2 97 7.75 - < 8.25 83
3 93 7.25 - < 7.75 67
4 87 6.75 - < 7.25 50
5 80 6.25 - < 6.75 33
6 73 5.75 - < 6.25 17
7 67 < 5.75 0
8 50   
9 33   
10-15 0   
ROCE and EEI targets and vesting schemes are not disclosed,
given their business-sensitive nature.
Up to and including the 2014 grant (i.e. shares vesting up to
and including 2017, depending on the fulfilment of
performance criteria), the vesting scheme for the part of the
grant related to GHGE performance was based on DSM's
reduction of GHGE over volume-related revenue as set out in
the tables in the DSM Integrated Annual Report for 2013 and
2014.
The retention period for performance shares expires five years
after the three-year vesting period or at termination of
employment, if this occurs earlier. The final TSR performance
of DSM versus its peers will be determined and validated by a
bank, and agreed-upon mandate procedures are performed
by the external auditor at the end of the vesting period.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  128 www.dsm.comPensions
The members of the Managing Board participate in the Dutch
pension fund Stichting Pensioenfonds DSM Nederland (PDN).
This pension scheme for the Managing Board is equal to the
pension scheme for the employees of DSM Executive Services
B.V. and DSM employees in the Netherlands.
Contractual arrangements
Term of employment
Managing Board members who joined DSM prior to 1 January
2013 are engaged on the basis of an individual employment
agreement for an indefinite period of time. Managing Board
members joining the company after 1 January 2013 are
engaged on the basis of a Management Services Agreement
with a four-year term, to be renewed at reappointment.
Term of appointment
Members of the Managing Board appointed before 1 January
2005 are appointed for an indefinite period of time. Managing
Board members appointed after 1 January 2005 are
appointed for a period of four years, after which they are
eligible for reappointment by the Annual General Meeting of
Shareholders.
Notice period
Resignation by a member of the Managing Board is subject to
three months' notice (six months in case of a Management
Services Agreement). A notice period of six months applies in
the event of termination by the company.
Severance arrangement
There are no specific contractual exit arrangements for
members of the Managing Board appointed before 1 January
2005. Should a situation arise in which a severance payment
is appropriate for such a Board member, the Remuneration
Committee will recommend the terms and conditions. The
Supervisory Board will decide upon this, taking into account
usual practices for these types of situations, as well as
applicable laws and corporate governance requirements.
Members of the Managing Board appointed after 1 January
2005 are covered by a severance provision in accordance with
the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, which is set at a
maximum of one annual base salary.
Claw-back / change-of-control
Legislation entered into force regarding the revision and claw-
back of bonuses and profit-sharing arrangements of board
members of Dutch listed companies as of January 2014. Part
of this legislation was already covered in comparable rules of
the Dutch Corporate Governance Code and consequently
already included in the employment contracts of the members
of the Managing Board. This regards in particular the
possibility (1) to revise an incentive prior to payment, if
unaltered payment of the bonus/incentive would be
unreasonable and unfair, and (2) to claw back an incentive, ifpayment took place on the basis of incorrect information on
the fulfilment of the incentive targets or the conditions for
payment of the incentive. In addition, it is enacted that in the
case of a change-of-control event, a related increase in value
of the securities that have been granted to a board member
as part of his/her remuneration will be deducted from the
remuneration to be paid to that board member at the time of
selling these securities or when his/her board membership
ends.
Share ownership
The Supervisory Board encourages the Managing Board to
hold shares in the company to emphasize its confidence in the
strategy and performance of the company.
Minimum shareholding guidelines for the members of the
Managing Board are applicable, equivalent to three times the
base salary in the case of the CEO and one time the base
salary for the other Managing Board members. These
shareholdings can be built up over five years. For more
information, see the position paper 'Royal DSM's position on
Board Member shareholdings in the company' on the
company website.
Loans
DSM does not provide any loans to members of the Managing
Board.
Scenario analysis
The Dutch Corporate Governance Code requires that the
Supervisory Board 'shall analyze possible outcomes of the
variable income components and the effect on Managing
Board remuneration'. Within DSM, this analysis is conducted
at least every three years.
Heerlen, 27 February 2018
 
The Supervisory Board
Rob Routs, Chairman
Tom de Swaan, Deputy Chairman
Victoria Haynes
Eileen Kennedy
Pauline van der Meer Mohr
Frits van Paasschen
Pradeep Pant
John RamsayReport by the Supervisory Board — Remuneration policy for the Managing Board
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  129 www.dsm.comSupervisory Board
Rob Routs (1946, m), Chairman
First appointed: 2010. End of current term:
2018. Nationality: Dutch. Nomination
Committee (Chair), Remuneration Committee
(member). Last executive position held:
Executive Director Downstream and member
of the Board of Royal Dutch Shell plc.
Supervisory directorships/other positions:
Chairman Supervisory Board of Aegon N.V.;
member Board of Directors of AECOM; ATCO
Group Ltd. and A.P. Moeller-Maersk Group.
Tom de Swaan (1946, m), Deputy
Chairman
First appointed: 2006. End of current term:
2018. Nationality: Dutch. Audit Committee
(Chair), Remuneration Committee (member).
Last executive position held: member
Managing Board and CFO/CRO ABN AMRO.
Supervisory directorships/other positions:
Chairman Board of Zurich Insurance Group;
Chairman Board of Trustees of Netherlands
Cancer Institute-Antoni van Leeuwenhoek
Hospital; Chairman of the Board of the Dutch
National Opera & Ballet Fund.
Victoria Haynes (1947, f)
First appointed: 2012. End of current term:
2020. Nationality: American. Audit Committee
(member), Remuneration Committee
(member). Last executive position held:
President and CEO of the Research Triangle
Institute International. Supervisory
directorships/other positions: member Board
of Directors of PPG and Nucor.
Eileen Kennedy (1947, f)
First appointed: 2012. End of current term:
2020. Nationality: American. Sustainability
Committee (Chair), Nomination Committee
(member). Position: Professor Nutrition
Friedman School of Nutrition Science and
Policy at Tufts University in Boston (USA);
Supervisory directorships/other positions:
High Level Panel of Experts on Food Security
and Nutrition of the UN Committee on World
Food Security.
Pauline van der Meer Mohr (1960, f)
First appointed: 2011. End of current term:
2019. Nationality: Dutch. Remuneration
Committee (Chair), Nomination Committee
(member). Last executive position held:
President Executive Board of Erasmus
University Rotterdam. Supervisory
directorships/other positions: independent
non-executive Director HSBC plc.; member
Supervisory Board of ASML N.V.; Chair
Supervisory Board of EY Netherlands; director
Hollandsche Maatschappij van
Wetenschappen; Chair Board of Trustees
Nederlands Danstheater and member of the
selection and nomination committee of the
Supreme Court of the Netherlands.
Frits Dirk van Paasschen (1961, m)
First appointed: 2017. End of current term:
2021. Nationality: Dutch and American. Audit
Committee (member), Sustainability
Committee (member). Last position held: CEO
Starwood Hotels and Resorts. Supervisory
directorships/other positions: Chairman
Supervisory Board Apollo Hotels (NL), non-
executive board member Williams Sonoma
(US), non-executive board member Convene
(real estate enhancement company) (August
2017) member Board of Advisors Rutberg &
Company (US), CEO and Founder, The
Disruptor's Feast Advisory, Advisor to
CitizenM Hotels (NL), private equity firm TPG
(September 2017) and to MobGen (NL).
Pradeep Pant (1953, m)
First appointed: 2016. End of current term:
2020. Nationality: Singaporean. Audit
Committee (member), Sustainability
Committee (member). Last executive position
held: EVP and President APAC and EMEA of
Mondelez International. Supervisory
directorships and other positions: Honorary
Advisor Council Food Industry Asia; member
Advisory Board Lee Kong Chian School of
Business, Singapore Management University;
non-executive Director Max BUPA Health
Insurance Co Ltd. (India), non-executive
Director Antara Senior Living Ltd. and Antara
Purukul Senior Living Ltd. (India) (until Oct.
2017); President Pant Consulting Pte. Ltd.
John Ramsay (1957, m)
First appointed: 2017. End of current term:
2021. Nationality: British. Audit Committee
(member), Last position held: Chief Financial
Officer (CFO) of Syngenta AG. Supervisory
directorships/other positions: non-executive
director member of the Board of RHI
Magnesita NV (as per 6 October 2017) and
non-executive member of the Board of G4S
plc (as per 1 January 2018), advisor to
Clarmondial.Supervisory Board and Managing
Board Royal DSM
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  130 www.dsm.comManaging Board
Feike Sijbesma (1959, m), CEO/Chairman
Position: CEO/Chairman Managing Board since May 2007; member Managing Board since July 2000.
Nationality: Dutch.
Supervisory directorships/other positions held: Non-executive Director of Unilever; Member Supervisory
Board Dutch Central Bank (DNB); Member Global CEO Council (GCC) Chinese People's Association for
Friendship with Foreign Countries (CPAFFC); Climate leader for the World Bank Group; Co-Chair of the
High Level Assembly of the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC), convened by the World Bank.
e-mail: feike.sijbesma@dsm.com
Geraldine Matchett (1972, f), CFO
Position: member Managing Board since August 2014 and CFO since December 2014. End of current
term: 2018.
Nationality: British, French, Swiss.
Supervisory directorships/other positions held: Board member of Catalyst Europe;
Co-Chair of A4S (Accounting 4 Sustainability) CFO Leadership Network.
e-mail: geraldine.matchett@dsm.com
Dimitri de Vreeze (1967, m)
Position: member Managing Board since September 2013. End of current term: 2021.
Nationality: Dutch.
Supervisory directorships/other positions held: Chairman Supervisory Board DSM Netherlands; Board
member CEFIC (European Chemical Industry Council); Board member ChemicaInvest; Board member
DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals (DSP); Board member 'Fonds voor de topsport' (NOC*NSF; Dutch
Olympic Committee Fund for top sport); member Supervisory Board Sanquin; member Advisory Board
ECP (Electronic Commerce Platform Netherlands); board member Young Captain Foundation.
e-mail: dimitri.vreeze-de@dsm.comSupervisory Board and Managing Board Royal DSM
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  131 www.dsm.comDSM is always trying to improve, but sometimes things still go
wrong. Here we share the most significant incidents of 2017
across all three dimensions of People, Planet and Profit. This
includes health, safety, environment, and security incidents as
well as what we have learned from business that has not
developed as planned.
Preventing repeat problems means understanding each
incident to the best of our ability. When a problem occurs,
DSM first tries to repair any damage, take care of injuries and
act with compassion. We also trigger an improvement cycle
(see 'Health & wellness' on page 35). This includes
investigating root causes and trying to eliminate them. We put
new requirements or operating procedures in place as
needed. For example, in DSM Nutritional Products, in
response to the incidents with forklifts in 2017, a new business
group standard on internal transport was developed and
introduced.
DSM applies zero tolerance to violations of the DSM Code of
Business Conduct (see page 108). DSM does not disclose any
personal details in cases involving individuals.
In line with our reporting policy, this overview includes
incidents and some serious near-misses. Near-misses are
cases that did not result in injury, illness or damage but could
have done so. Even when crisis is averted, it is our
responsibility to learn and do better.
People
Fatal incidents
Tragically, in September 2017 there was a fatal incident at our
site in Augusta (Georgia, USA). One contractor passed away,
another was severely injured and a third suffered less severe
injuries in the same incident. The root causes have been
thoroughly investigated and the lessons learned are being
implemented. We are committed to the safety of all workers
and will continue to pay close attention to contractor safety.
DSM is supporting the affected families.
Incidents involving falls
At DSM Nutritional Products in Sisseln (Switzerland), an
operator missed his footing on the top step of a four-step
ladder. He landed on his back, which resulted in swelling. He
also landed on the back of his head, causing a slight
headache. At the same place but in a different incident, a
contractor came down a ladder and lost his balance on the
second to last step. He stumbled backwards, and hit the top
of a hand lever of a valve, resulting in a serious flesh wound.
At DSM Nutritional Products in Liaocheng (China), a contractor
fell from a 1.8 m-high molding rack while climbing a scaffold
of an office building that was being constructed. The
contractor suffered severe head injuries.At DSM Dyneema in Heerlen (Netherlands), an employee
broke his ankle by falling down the stairs in a hotel where he
attended a training.
Incidents involving forklift trucks
At DSM Nutritional Products in Grenzach (Germany), a pallet
truck ran over the top of an operator's shoe. The operator's
foot was broken in several places.
At DSM Nutritional Products in Campo Grande (Brazil), a
contractor was struck by a moving forklift. He sustained
fractures and a small displacement to an ankle.
At DSM Engineering Plastics in Togliatti (Russia), an operator
stepped backwards and his foot was broken by the wheel of
a forklift.
Incidents with allergic reactions
At DSM Nutritional Products in Ueberlandia (Brazil), an
employee had an allergic reaction during venom extraction
resulting from sensitization.
At DSM Nutritional Products in Sisseln (Switzerland), an
operator who worked for four years in the Rocephin plant had
an acute allergic reaction during shutdown revision work. The
operator's allergy has been confirmed by extensive allergy
testing.
Other safety incidents
At DSM Nutritional Products in Village-Neuf (France), hot water
spilled onto an operator's abdomen, resulting in a second-
degree burn.
At DSM Nutritional Products in Sisseln (Switzerland), a sample
exploded in the lab due to overpressure. A lab technician
suffered an eye injury despite wearing safety glasses.
At DSM Engineering Plastics in Geleen (Netherlands), a
contractor employee got his finger caught between the door
handle and the steel pillar of the building wall, leading to a
permanent impairment.
At DSM Nutritional Products in Jaguaré (Brazil), an employee
performing a repair inside a mixer was almost engulfed by
hundreds of kilograms of product, because the right
procedures for safeguarding equipment before starting the
work (lock-out/tag-out/try-out) had not been followed.
Fortunately, the employee did not have any injuries.
At DSM Nutritional Products in Lalden (Switzerland), a closed
ammonia cylinder in an experimental laboratory set-up
exploded due to overpressure, caused by failure of an
electrical heating element (uncontrolled overheating). The
incident resulted in only physical damage. Fortunately, no one
was injured because the failure occurred overnight when
nobody was present in the laboratory.What still went wrong in 2017
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  132 www.dsm.comPrivacy incidents
In November, some employees received an unexpected email
from Uber. Many reported it as a phishing attempt. An
investigation revealed that access to the travel and expense
system was shared with Uber by a DSM employee in the US.
DSM and Uber had agreed upon an exchange of data of US
employees; however, the DSM employee accidentally
provided access to data for all employees. Immediate actions
were taken to close the link and Uber confirmed it deleted the
DSM data immediately. Actions have been taken to prevent
such a disclosure in the future. The breach was reported to
the Dutch Privacy Authority, as well as one other incident
related to phishing.
Planet
At our site shared by DSM Nutritional Products and DSM Food
Specialties in Xinghuo (China), one of our production plants
had to be stopped for three months because of odor
complaints from a nearby residential area. An off-gas
treatment system is currently being installed. In the meantime,
the plant is running at reduced capacity.
DSM experienced several minor incidents that led to a loss of
primary containment from our installations. For example, at our
DSM Food Specialties site in Delft (Netherlands) nitric acid was
released from the installation during maintenance work and at
our DSM Dyneema site in Heerlen (Netherlands) the hazardous
content of a vessel leaked on the floor due to a valve failure.
In all cases, an immediate cleanup prevented any impact to
the environment or harm to people.
Profit
At DSM Food Specialties in Seclin (France), a contamination
was identified that required cleaning of the production line,
causing a loss of production volume for several days. After
cleaning the plant was restarted without further problems.
DSM Resins & Functional Materials incurred higher supply
costs globally, caused by shortage of raw material.
At DSM Resins & Functional Materials in Waalwijk
(Netherlands), raw material quality problems caused the loss
of three days' production volume.
At DSM Nutritional Products in Brazil, a quality complaint has
resulted in a financial compensation for the customer.
Due to the decision to shut down a power plant at DSM
Nutritional Products in Jiangshan (China), employees stopped
operations to protest against this decision. This caused a loss
of production of several days.At DSM Nutritional Products at Village-Neuf (France), a dispute
with employees concerning the calculation of working hours
was resolved by ruling of the industrial court of Mulhouse,
resulting in an additional payment of wages.
Several employees received emails that were supposedly sent
by the CEO, urgently asking them to transfer money to an
external bank account. Thanks to the alertness of these
employees, no other action was required after reporting these
mails to our Information Security office.
A regional outbreak of avian flu in China caused people to eat
less poultry meat than usual, resulting in temporarily lower
market demand for the animal nutrition business of DSM
Nutritional Products in China.
The animal nutrition business of DSM Nutritional Products in
Brazil experienced the consequences of a serious third party
reputation incident in the downstream value chain, often
referred to as the 'weak meat' scandal.
DSM Nutritional Products (Personal Care business) suffered a
production loss of several days caused by a 'force majeur' at
an important raw material supplier.What still went wrong in 2017
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  133 www.dsm.comShares and listings
Ordinary shares in Koninklijke DSM N.V. are listed on the
Euronext stock exchange in Amsterdam (Netherlands) (Stock
code 00982, ISIN code NL0000009827). Options on ordinary
DSM shares are traded on the European Option Exchange in
Amsterdam (Euronext.liffe). In the US, a sponsored unlisted
American Depositary Receipts (ADR) program is offered by
Deutsche Bank Trust Co. Americas (Cusip 780249108), with
four ADRs representing the value of one ordinary DSM share.
Besides the ordinary shares, 44.04 million cumulative
preference shares A (cumprefs A) are in issue, which are not
listed on the stock exchange; these have been placed with
institutional investors. The cumprefs A have the same voting
rights as ordinary shares, as their nominal value of € 
1.50 per
share is equal to the nominal value of the ordinary shares.
Transfer of the cumprefs A requires the approval of the
Managing Board, unless the shareholder is obliged by law to
transfer his shares to a previous shareholder.
The average number of ordinary shares outstanding in 2017
was 174,794,656. All shares in issue are fully paid. On 31
December 2017, the company had 174,643,475 ordinary
shares outstanding.
Reset dividend on Cumulative Preference Shares A
As it is DSM's policy to offer a fair dividend to all its
shareholders by providing a stable, and preferably rising
dividend, it was proposed to, and approved by the AGM in
May 2017 to modify the Articles of Association such that the
dividend percentage of the Cumulative Preference Shares A
every year will be based upon the dividend yield of the ordinary
shares in the preceding year (dividend as a percentage of the
average share price). This percentage may be increased or
decreased by a markup or discount of no more than one
hundred (100) basis points, to be determined by the Managing
Board in consultation with the Supervisory Board. The basis
of computation of the dividend on the Preference Shares
remained fixed at € 5.2942 (Article 32 section 3 of the Articles
of Association). This amendment aligns the interests of the
Preference Shareholders with the interest of ordinary
shareholders in terms of dividend yield.
Issue of shares
The issue of shares takes place by a decision of the Managing
Board. The decision is subject to the approval of the
Supervisory Board. The scope of this power of the Managing
Board shall be determined by a resolution of the General
Meeting of Shareholders and shall relate to at most all
unissued shares of the authorized capital, as applicable now
or at any time in the future. In the Annual General Meeting ofShareholders of 3 May 2017 this power was extended up to
and including 3 November 2018, on the understanding that
this authorization of the Managing Board is limited to a number
of ordinary shares with a nominal value amounting to 10% of
the issued capital at the time of issue, and to an additional 10%
of the issued capital at the time of issue if the issue takes place
within the context of a merger or acquisition within the scope
of DSM's strategy as published on the company website. The
issue price will be determined by the Managing Board and
shall as much as possible be calculated on the basis of the
trading prices of ordinary shares on the Euronext Amsterdam
Stock Exchange.
Distribution of shares
Under the Dutch Financial Markets Supervision Act,
shareholdings of 3% or more in any Dutch company must be
disclosed to the Netherlands Authority for the Financial
Markets (AFM). According to the register kept by the AFM the
following shareholders had disclosed that they have a direct
or indirect (potential) interest between 3% and 10% in DSM's
total share capital on 31 December 2017:
-
ASR Nederland N.V.
- BlackRock, Inc.
- Capital Research and Management Company and Capital
Group International Inc.
- NN Group N.V.
- Rabobank Nederland Participatie B.V.
Repurchase of own shares
The company may acquire paid-up own shares by virtue of a
decision of the Managing Board, provided that the par value
of the acquired shares in its capital amounts to no more than
one tenth of the issued capital. Such a decision is subject to
the approval of the Supervisory Board. In the Annual General
Meeting of Shareholders of 3 May 2017 the Managing Board
was authorized to acquire own shares for a period of 18
months from said date (i.e. up to and including 3 November
2018), up to a maximum of 10% of the issued capital, provided
that the company will hold no more shares in stock than at
maximum 10% of the issued capital.
DSM repurchased a number of its own shares during 2017 for
the purpose of covering the company's commitments under
existing management and employee option plans, share (unit)
plans and stock dividend. Two programs were run for this
purpose during the year, the first from 13 March to 13 July
2017 and the second from 14 August to 14 November 2017.
In total DSM repurchased 4,500,000 shares for a combined
consideration of € 297 million.Information about the DSM share
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  134 www.dsm.comDevelopment of the number of ordinary DSM shares
 
 2017 2016
 Issued Repurchased Outstanding Outstanding
     
Balance at 1 January 181,425,000 6,423,334 175,001,666 174,923,027
Changes:     
Reissue of shares in connection with exercise of option rights - (2,238,144) 2,238,144 3,243,102
Repurchase of shares - 4,500,000 (4,500,000) (5,200,000)
Dividend in the form of ordinary shares - (1,903,665) 1,903,665 2,035,537
     
Balance at 31 December 181,425,000 6,781,525 174,643,475 175,001,666
     
DSM share prices on Euronext Amsterdam (€ per ordinary share):     
Highest closing price   81.66 64.18
Lowest closing price   57.20 41.40
At 31 December   79.67 56.96
     
Market capitalization at 31 December (€ million)1   14,454 10,334
1Source: Bloomberg.
Geographical spread of DSM shares outstanding
in % (excl. cumprefs A) 2017 2016
   
North America 37 39
United Kingdom 18 17
Netherlands 15 16
France 9 7
Germany 5 4
Switzerland 4 5
Asia-Pacific 4 4
Other countries 8 8
DSM share price development versus AEX and 
Dow Jones Euro StoXX Chemical Index, 2017
(Rebased versus DSM share price)
x
 €
DSM
AEX Index
Dow Jones Euro StoXX Chemical Index
85
01/17 02/17 03/17 04/17 05/17 06/17 07/17 08/17 09/17 10/17 11/17 12/1775
7080
65
60
55Information about the DSM share
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  135 www.dsm.comTrading volume DSM shares 2017
x million shares as reported by Euronext Amsterdam
051015202530
January  February  March  April  May  June  July  August  September  October  November  December 
Article 10 of Directive 2004/25
With regard to the information referred to in the Resolution of
article 10 of the EC Directive pertaining to a takeover bid which
is required to be provided according to Dutch law, the
following can be reported:
-
Information on major shareholdings can be found above
(Distribution of shares).
-There are no special statutory rights attached to the shares
of the company.
- There are no restrictions on the voting rights of the
company's shares. When convening a General Meeting of
Shareholders, the Managing Board is entitled to determine
a registration date in accordance with the relevant
provisions of the Dutch Civil Code.
- The applicable provisions regarding the appointment and
dismissal of members of the Managing Board and the
Supervisory Board and amendments to the Articles of
Association can be found in the chapter 'Corporate
governance' on page 101.
-The powers of the Managing Board regarding the issue and
repurchase of shares in the company can be found in the
sections Issue of shares and Repurchase of own shares
above.
- Other information can be found in the 'Notes to the
consolidated financial statements' (16 'Equity', 19
'Borrowings', 27 'Share-based compensation').Dividend
DSM's dividend policy is to provide a stable and preferably
rising dividend. DSM proposes to increase the dividend to
€ 
1.85 per ordinary share for 2017. This will be proposed to
the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders to be held on
9 May 2018. An interim dividend of € 0.58 per ordinary share
having been paid in August 2017, the final dividend would then
amount to € 1.27 per ordinary share. The dividend will be
payable in cash or in the form of ordinary shares at the option
of the shareholder, with a maximum of 40% of the dividend
amount available for stock dividend. If more than 40% of the
total dividend is requested by the shareholders to be paid out
in shares, those shareholders who have chosen to receive
their dividend in shares will receive their stock dividend on a
pro-rata basis, the remainder being paid out in cash. Dividend
in cash will be paid after deduction of 15% Dutch dividend
withholding tax. The ex-dividend date is 11 May 2018.
Dividend per ordinary share in €
2017 dividend subject to approval by Annual General Meeting of Shareholders
012
1.20
2008 1.20
2009 1.35
2010 1.45
2011 1.50
2012 1.65
2013 1.65
2014 1.65
2015 1.75
2016 1.85
2017 
  
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  136 www.dsm.comSustainability statements – People
 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013
      
Total workforce 21,054 20,786 20,796 21,351 23,485
Female/male ratio 27/73 27/73 28/72 27/73 26/74
% by age category1     
<26 years 6 6 5 6 6
26-35 years 26 25 26 25 24
36-45 years 28 28 30 29 30
46-55 years 25 27 27 28 28
>55 15 14 12 12 12
% non-Dutch1     
Executives 56 53 49 51 50
Management 70 67 68 64 65
Other 85 81 82 77 78
% female1     
Executives 17 15 15 12 11
Management 27 26 27 24 23
Other 28 29 29 28 27
      
% executive hires1     
Non-Dutch 95 88 79 88 75
Female 43 13 38 25 23
% new hires by region1     
Netherlands 11 5 11 11 10
Rest of Europe 26 23 22 19 23
North America 20 27 16 26 26
China 16 20 18 18 16
Rest of Asia-Pacific 11 8 13 18 19
Rest of the world 15 17 22 8 6
      
Total number new hires (excluding acquisitions) 2,203 1,730 2,171 1,997 1,834
Acquisitions 247 46 1810 169 199
      
Outflow of employees      
Voluntary resignations 766 585 1,153 1,011 1,043
Dismissed 895 781 647 411 224
Reorganization 157 208 230 221 408
Retirements 112 143 170 167 259
Deceased 13 12 12 11 34
      
Total outflow (excluding divestments) 1,943 1,729 2,212 1,821 1,968
Divestments 42 57 2,324 2,479 78
      
Voluntary resignations (% total workforce) 4.1 2.8 5.5 4.7 4.4
Total resignations (% total workforce) 10.2 8.3 10.6 8.5 8.4
      
Development training in hours per employee 19 25 29 25 25
      
Net sales per employee (x € 1,000) 420 386 374 409 401
      
Safety      
Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries (per 100 DSM
employees and contractor employees) 0.36 0.33 0.41 0.47 0.38
1For the indexes based on age, nationalities, gender, inflow and outflow, the companies that are not integrated into the HR systems (approximately 10% of the total workforce)
are not taken into account.Sustainability statements
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  137 www.dsm.comSustainability statements – Brighter Living Solutions
 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013
      
Brighter Living Solutions sales as % of net sales 62 631- - -
12016 was the first year of reporting; consequently, there are no comparative figures for the previous years.
Sustainability statements − Planet
 2017 2016 201512014120131
      
Energy and greenhouse gases      
Energy use (in petajoules) 23.6 22.6 20.9 39.1 41.1
Energy efficiency improvement (in %) versus 2015 3 22   
Greenhouse-gas emissions scope 1 + 2, location-based
(in CO 2 equivalents x million tons) 1.6 1.5 1.1 4.2 4.2
Greenhouse-gas emissions scope 1 + 2, market-based
(in CO 2 equivalents x million tons) 1.5 1.42   
      
Emissions to air      
Volatile Organic Compounds (x 1,000 tons) 6.6 8.9 3.1 4.2 4.3
Nitrogen oxide (NO x) (x 1,000 tons) 0.7 0.8 0.4 1.5 1.6
Sulfur dioxide (SO 2) (x 1,000 tons) 0.28 0.33 0.04 0.08 0.07
      
Discharges to water and landfill      
Chemical Oxygen Demand discharges to surface waters 
(x 1,000 tons) 2.5 2.4 2.1 3.9 4.8
Waste recycled (in %) 84 832   
(Landfilling) Non-hazardous waste (x 1,000 tons) 20 17.5 12.9 18.2 22.7
      
Water      
Water consumption (x million m3) 23 222   
Water use (x million m3) 114 104 101 118 150
      
Raw materials      
Renewable raw materials (in %) 15.4 16.5 16 10.8 9.9
      
Biodiversity      
Sites in or adjacent to protected areas (in %) 61 60 58 52 40
      
Fines (in € ) 128,400 27,900 35,600 62,500 62,300
Non-monetary sanctions 4 2 5 4 4
Environmental incidents 101 1093257 297 261
Environmental complaints 35 21 31 56 42
1DSM completed several material acquisitions and divestments over the period 2013-2015. The figures presented here are not restated for the effect of this activity and so do not
accurately represent our environmental trends. For year on year comparison, please see 2016-2017 data. For more information on our environmental footprint please visit the
company website.
22016 was the first year of reporting; consequently, there are no comparative figures for the previous years.
3As of 2016, the Loss of Primary Containment of non-hazardous substances is no longer included in this number.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option. The GRI content index is provided
on the company website.
DSM aligns with the recommendations of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) Framework where possible.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  138 www.dsm.comStakeholder Engagement
In the following pages, we present some examples of how we
engage with external stakeholders, including the partners in
our value chain. For an overview of all our stakeholders, please
see 'Stakeholders' on page 26. For information on how we
engage with our employees, see 'Workforce engagement' in
'People' on page 37.
Customers
Customers are the driving force behind our business. They are
our most important partners for realizing both our strategic
growth ambitions and our vision to improve the lives of people
today and for generations to come. For more information on
our businesses and our relationships with customers, see
'Review of business' starting on page 68.
Providing value to customers
Although our bright science-driven solutions are not always
immediately visible to consumers, they are of strategic
importance to our customers and recognized as such. Our
solutions enable our customers to differentiate and solve
consumer needs. Our unique products and innovations not
only ensure a strong loyalty from our customers, they are also
driving our growth.
To bring value to our customers, we not only focus on the
products we bring today; we also deepen our understanding
of the total ecosystem in which our customers operate to
anticipate future consumer needs. Through our consumer and
customer insights, we aim to become a stronger strategic
partner for our customers and to increase their loyalty. It is
through this customer-centric approach that we become a
more valued strategic partner.
For example, through this approach we have become a valued
strategic partner of carpet company Mohawk. Together
Mohawk and DSM-Niaga won the Surface Innovation Award
at the Floor Surfaces Trade Show in Las Vegas (Nevada, USA),
where Mohawk launched the first fully recyclable carpet based
on our technology. By supporting development and
commercialization of 100% recyclable carpet, DSM-Niaga
helped Mohawk address society's need for more responsible
consumption and production based on the principles of the
circular economy.
Customer loyalty
Net Promotor Score (NPS) is our key metric to measure
customer loyalty. Our ever-increasing awareness around
customer loyalty has ensured that all our business groups have
in place a robust NPS cycle which provides valuable insight.
In 2017, our NPS score reached 39 (2016: 38).
Our business groups create improvement programs to
increase customer loyalty based on their feedback. DSMFeedlot Tour is a strong example of a program to address this.
It is a circuit of annual technical meetings occurring during the
dry season in Brazil. At these gatherings, DSM shares
knowledge and training on the latest technology in animal
nutrition worldwide. These Feedlot Tours are organized
together with our customers, and we actively demonstrate the
impact of our solutions, from the dietary ingredients and
additives to the zootechnical and economic results. Partners
like the economic research center, CEPEA, at ESALQ (Luiz de
Queiroz College of Agriculture, University of São Paulo, Brazil)
support us.
A key driver to increase customer loyalty is the ease of doing
business with DSM. This requires a genuinely customer-
centric approach. In many business groups, we are deepening
our understanding of customer journeys and customer
touchpoints. These outcomes are used to improve our online
and offline customer interactions and will result in easier and
stronger interaction. The 24/7 EngineerConnect program
developed by DSM Engineering Plastics was created to make
it easier to do business with DSM. Engineers in the automotive
industry strive for faster time-to-market and first-time-right
products and solutions. They want to understand in an early
stage of development what the available possibilities and
solutions might be. 24/7 EngineerConnect is a digital platform
that gives our customers' engineers access to the latest
innovations, concepts, materials and technology. Through
artificial intelligence and our extensive knowledge, they can
connect with the right expert at the right time and collaborate
on new design projects at the earliest stage.
Personal interaction with our customers is important and our
bright minds and skilled professionals support our customers
to match their needs with the solutions we offer. Therefore, we
put continuous effort in educating and training our commercial
crew. In 2017, many Marketing & Sales (M&S) colleagues from
all business groups were certified on the key principles in M&S.
Through an actionable and inspirational blended learning
program, co-developed with Vlerick Business School (Gent,
Belgium), M&S professionals learn the essentials of customer-
centricity. This allows us to better understand the needs of our
customers and their consumers, and ensure DSM keeps
developing relevant solutions.
Brand value
The combination of a true customer understanding and a
smooth customer interaction defines the success of our
customer-centric approach. Our strong brand reflects this and
articulates what DSM stands for: 'Bright Science. Brighter
Living.' These values drive our customer relationships and
form the basis of our growth.
We consider our brand an important business asset and we
aspire to be a company with a reputation for providing
innovative and sustainable solutions that fulfill the needs of our
market segments and society. DSM's brand value asSustainability statements
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  139 www.dsm.comassessed by Brand Finance has grown considerably over the
last five years and for 2017 was valued at € 
807 million. The
increase versus prior year was primarily attributable to strong
revenues and forecasts, based on improving financial results.
DSM Brand Value 
(x € million)
275320607729
6501,000
As m
easured by the Brand Finance valuation methodology1
12012 2013 2014 2015 2016800
600
400
200
0807
2017
Suppliers
We engage with approximately 34,000 suppliers through our
Supplier Sustainability Program (SSP) to strengthen our supply
chain, reduce risk, lower cost and create value for society and
our company. Annual supplier sustainability plans and
sustainability roadmaps are used to gain insights. The Supplier
Sustainability Plan 2017 addressed a number of relevant
topics for the materiality matrix: 'Resource scarcity / Circular
& bio-based economy', 'Responsible business practices' and
'Climate change & renewable energy'.
DSM Supplier Sustainability Program
Supplier Relationship Management
Brighter Living Solutions
Requirements to do business with DSM
Low
 Risk – Opportunity for value creationHigh Risk – Mandatory Corrective 
Action Plan / Opportunity
Medium Risk – Recommended 
Corrective Action Plan / OpportunityBetter 
Business
Supplier Code 
of ConductSolutions ComplianceTfS 
Assessments 
& Audits
Supplier Sustainability Program strategy
Compliance and Solutions are the two main elements of
DSM's SSP. Insights gathered in the compliance programenabled us to very clearly define how we choose to do
business with our suppliers. We have invited suppliers to
contribute to our competitiveness in areas of sustainability,
innovation, business growth, security of supply, new business
models and strategic alliances. This occurs via our 'better
business' projects and other initiatives.
Our assessment of the maturity level of our SSP was
conducted in 2016 and addressed four dimensions: Strategy/
Plan; Supply Risk & Opportunity; People, Infrastructure &
Measurements; and Processes. Those insights were used to
develop our sourcing strategy and position to meet the
ambition level for 2020.
Internal skills and capabilities
Internal capability-building regarding supplier sustainability
continued in 2017. We have shifted the focus from delivering
training toward providing hands-on support and promoting
peer learning. The peer learnings offer practical experience
and knowledge-sharing on integrating sustainability into the
daily work of sourcing professionals. The Strategic Sourcing
Methodology Award and Best Supplier Innovation Award
highlight sustainability as a key topic in selecting the winners.
Collaboration
We work with external partners to enhance collaboration in the
supply chain such as the Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil
(RSPO) and Together for Sustainability (TfS).
Our exposure to palm oil is very limited. DSM Nutritional
Products is a member of RSPO due to the potential risks to
the environment, human rights issues and labor practices in
the palm oil supply chain. DSM Food Specialties has improved
the sustainability of their sourcing of palm-derived glycerin. For
more information, see 'Better business' in this chapter.
We have 'Friends of the Sea' certification for over 96% of our
fish oil purchases. This helps ensure that the fisheries involved
in providing fish oil for the production of our omega-3 product
range are sustainable.
Compliance
Our approach to compliance is defined in our Supplier Code
of Conduct (SCoC). Through assessments and audits, we
check that suppliers act in compliance with external and
internal norms and values. Where a risk or breach occurs,
DSM works with suppliers to define and execute an
improvement plan. If non-compliance still persists, DSM may
choose to terminate the relationship with the supplier. In 2017,
96% of DSM's spend was covered by the SCoC.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  140 www.dsm.comSupplier Sustainability Program results
 2017 2016
 Target Achieved Leverage TfS
pool1Target Achieved Leverage TfS
pool1
Spend coverage SCoC 95% 96% - 91% 96% -
Sustainability assessments 110 68 1,230 200 200 996
Sustainability audits 21 19 132 20 20 105
Quality audits - 343 - - 241 -
Solutions 35 62 - 36 50 -
1Total number of DSM suppliers assessed by TfS members.
We focus on approximately 1,000 critical suppliers, defined as
those that provide critical components, are located in
potentially high-risk countries, supply a high volume of
products or services, are non-substitutable, or have the
potential to create shared value in areas of innovation and
sustainability.
Since 2015, we have been actively collaborating with TfS.
Founded in 2011, TfS now has 20 members and aims to
develop and implement a global audit program to assess and
improve sustainability practices within the chemical industry's
supply chain. TfS works with EcoVadis, a recognized provider
of CSR ratings, to implement the program. The EcoVadis
methodology is aligned with international standards and
supervised by a scientific committee. This collaboration gives
DSM access to assessments and audits which are executed
by other TfS members and shared on the TfS platform. It
enabled DSM to screen approximately 4,700 suppliers in
2017, resulting in 1.2% being identified as 'suppliers at risk'.
In line with internal follow-up guidelines, these will be further
investigated by means of an on-site audit of their facilities so
as to ensure that improvement plans will be made. DSM was
able to screen 10% of new suppliers with regard to their
environmental performance, impact on society, human rights
and labor practices. The average EcoVadis sustainability
performance score of DSM's supply base was 54 in 2017, the
same as in 2016. The average of the supplier performance
level indicates that our suppliers are engaged with
sustainability.
The collective (potential) supply base of the TfS members has
been rated by 8,962 EcoVadis assessments and 1,187 TfS
audits. In total, 1,794 sustainability assessments were shared
among TfS members and 441 new TfS audit reports were
received by the initiative.
Better business
While compliance remains the cornerstone for achieving a
sustainable supply base, procurement activities will
increasingly focus on so-called 'better business'.As part of our drive to foster better business through our
supplier solution projects, DSM's Sourcing organization
engages in proactive dialogue with suppliers in order to move
the business agenda forward on topics such as climate
change, food and nutrition security, health, and the circular
economy. In this context, DSM Sourcing pursues initiatives to
create joint value, awareness and engagement using similar
drivers to those in our Brighter Living Solutions methodology.
We continued to engage in joint initiatives with suppliers that
led to environmental benefits in the value chain. These
included in packaging (e.g. the switch to fully recyclable fiber
drum solutions) and logistics (e.g. the collaboration platform
'Biceps' in marine transport) resulting in significant reductions
in CO 2 emissions. Via the CO 2 Emission Reduction Initiative,
the physical distribution team investigates suppliers' footprints
in road transportation, marine, packaging and, as of 2016,
also air transportation to explore opportunities for
improvement. This is a continuation of the Green Tender
Initiative that began in 2012 with the aim of achieving a 20%
reduction per unit of measurement in emissions associated
with logistics and packaging. Since 2012, over 47% of the
attainable global spend on physical distribution has been
covered by the Green Tender Initiative. The cumulative CO 2
emission reduction compared to 2010 reached 18% per unit
of measurement at the end of 2016, the latest reporting period.
In Emmen (Netherlands), a project was executed to improve
Hands on tool time (Hott). This project started by identifying
where time is lost in the work permit process. Based on the
outcome of this, together with the local maintenance
department, a new work-permit process and tool were
implemented. This project resulted in a 40% reduction in
preparation time for work permits, an 80% reduction in permit
mistakes and reduced waiting times by one third.
DSM Food Specialties' purchasing team continued to work on
replacing palm-derived glycerin with glycerin from more
sustainable sources. Working closely with their suppliers, DSM
succeeded in switching to a number of more sustainable
products in 2017. In Asia, we switched to a palm-derivedSustainability statements
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  141 www.dsm.comglycerin with RSPO mass balance certification, replacing a
non-sustainable version. Meanwhile, operations in the US
successfully switched altogether from palm-derived glycerin
to glycerin derived from rapeseed (also called canola).
Investors
DSM actively maintains contact with current and potential
shareholders of DSM and with analysts who advise
shareholders. DSM provides quality information to investors
and analysts about developments at DSM, ensuring that
relevant information is equally and simultaneously provided
and accessible to all interested parties.
Relevant information is made available through annual and
quarterly reports, press releases, presentations to investors
and the company website. In addition, DSM organizes analyst
conferences, regular road shows for investors and conference
calls. Any explanations and discussions are based on
information that is already in the public domain. DSM engaged
with our investors and their representatives on topics such as
the SDGs, climate change, sustainability in supply chain
management, natural and social capital, and responsible
taxation.
In June, we hosted an Environmental, Social and Governance
(ESG) seminar for investors at the Brightlands Chemelot
Campus in Sittard-Geleen (Netherlands), providing insights
into DSM's ESG performance and our ambitious targets and
initiatives.
In September, an Investor Day was hosted in the Netherlands,
with a visit to DSM's new biotechnology center in Delft and a
conference in The Hague (Netherlands) in which DSM gave an
overview of the status of the implementation and progress of
Strategy 2018. Special attention was given to the growth
profile and aspirations of the Nutrition and Materials
businesses.
Scientific Research Institutions
DSM provides funding and shares knowledge, research and
facilities with renowned research institutions.
DSM is one of the founding partners of EIT FOOD, which is
one of the six European Knowledge and Innovation
Communities (KICs) of the European Institute of Innovation
and Technology (EIT). The aim of EIT FOOD is to transform the
food ecosystem. By connecting consumers with businesses,
start-ups, researchers and students from around Europe, EIT
FOOD supports innovative and economically sustainable
initiatives which improve health, access to quality food, and
our environment.
DSM Nutritional Products has broadened its successful
collaboration with the Biomedical Sciences Research Instituteat the University of Ulster, Coleraine (United Kingdom). This
collaboration focuses on understanding the role of vitamin B2
in hypertension in genetically predisposed subjects. The
results so far indicate that optimizing this vitamin's level in the
subjects shows promise for managing their high blood
pressure.
We are a founding member of the world-class nanotechnology
center at MIT in Boston (Massachusetts, USA). Called
'MIT.nano', the center will provide nano research facilities to
MIT researchers and students, as well as to industrial partners
like us. Nanotechnology drives advances across many of our
areas of interest, like solar energy and energy storage. We
expect that the facility will be ready to move into as of June
2018.
NGOs
DSM works with NGOs and civil society to work towards
solutions for the world's societal challenges.
DSM sent a delegation of 23 young professionals,
representing all business groups and all regions, to the One
Young World Summit in Bogotá (Colombia). This global
platform brings together the brightest young leaders from
companies, NGOs and academia, empowering them to
formulate and share innovative solutions to the world's most
pressing issues such as malnutrition and climate change. On
their return, the delegates champion local sustainability
initiatives, including coordinating our local Earth Day activities.
The Vocational Educational Center ('Centro Educacional
Assistencial Profissionalizante', CEAP) contributes to
educational development in Brazil. Over 6,000 teenagers have
already benefitted from educational and vocational programs.
DSM's partnership with CEAP aims to make a positive
contribution to these teenagers' lives through more prepared
and qualified trainings.
In China, we continue to engage with a number of NGOs such
as World Wildlife Fund, World Vision China and the Climate
Group on topics such as climate change, renewable energy
and nutrition improvement. We also started engaging with the
China National Institution of Standardization on green product
design and life cycle assessment.
In Japan, we hosted the DSM Environmental Forum with
guests from local universities, the UN Environment
Programme - Finance Initiative, and industry representatives.
The event was open to the public and included a screening of
the National Geographic documentary 'Before the Flood' in
Tokyo.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  142 www.dsm.comLocal communities
DSM engages in the communities in which we operate on
topics that are locally relevant.
In North America, we worked with the Seafood Nutrition
Partnership to develop a community education and
awareness platform on the benefits of eating seafood, and on
the role of omega-3 in healthy diets.
We engaged in several events, together with the US Chamber
of Commerce Foundation on food security and the circular
economy, and the Diversity Council to highlight issues relating
to gender, race, age and handicap inclusion and diversity.
In Brazil, we ran several projects to reach out to schools and
communities. These projects provided opportunities for local
students to learn about the job market, educate teachers on
and provide training materials about topics like environment,
health and work, and to educate communities on the
consumption of natural resources and electricity.Governments
Our engagements with governments are increasingly
important considering our commitment to supporting the Paris
Agreement and the Sustainable Development Goals.
We are actively involved in the EU's Horizon2020 Framework
Programme and are participating in a variety of projects
ranging from bio-based feedstock for polymers, process
control, product safety and various Marie Curie training
networks.
In China, our CEO Feike Sijbesma engaged with government
officials, thought leaders and business leaders on topics
including the Chinese economy, climate change, carbon
trading and pricing, and renewable energy.Sustainability statements
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  143 www.dsm.comManagement approach for material topics
In the following tables, we elaborate on the material topics defined in the materiality matrix (see 'Materiality' on page 26) and describe
how we manage these topics.
Society
Health & wellness Management approach Relevant sections
The global population is growing and aging.
People are living longer. Consumer preferences
are shifting toward healthier diets including food
perceived as natural. At the same time, there are
an increasing number of people who are
overweight/obese, which is driving higher levels
of noncommunicable disease like diabetes.
Businesses are expected to provide safe
workplaces. Health and safety issues at home or
in the workplace have detrimental effects on
individuals, businesses and the rest of society.
This topic aligns with SDG 3 (Good Health and
Well-being).Health and wellness is a key focus for DSM. Our
Nutrition strategy targets health and well-being,
including products addressing sugar and salt
levels. Our EBA Biomedical works with the
medical industry to provide products that
improve health and quality of life and combat
disease. Through our Materials strategy, we
focus on the elimination of hazardous
substances in our supply chain, and offer
products that are safer to use. We strive to offer
our staff a safe and healthy workplace.Strategy 2018
People
Review of business
Malnutrition & nutrition security Management approach Relevant sections
The cost of malnutrition to society is vast. The
impact of undernutrition on health and
development affects all of society. There are
many people who have an insufficient intake of
micronutrients (vitamins and minerals) and
cannot access food that is both calorifically and
nutritionally sufficient to foster health and well-
being. This topic aligns with SDG 2 (Zero
Hunger).DSM works closely in partnerships with UN
agencies, governments and NGOs to address
the quality and availability of the food basket in
the developing world. Our Nutrition cluster
provides nutrition and food solutions that
address both emerging and developed markets.Stakeholders —
Collaborative platforms
and networks
Nutrition
Emerging economies Management approach Relevant sections
The emerging economies include what are
referred to as the 'BRIC' countries, as well as
other economies such as those of South East
Asia, Latin America and Africa. These continue
to show population and economic growth. We
also see increasing urbanization and growing
demand for energy, infrastructure and
discretionary items.
 DSM’s Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable
Growth is central to the management of our
regional approach and footprint. Our regional
footprint means we are locally represented and
understand local dynamics. We manage our
global supply chain through our Supplier
Sustainability Program and Human Rights
Policy.Strategy 2018
Sustainability
statements — DSM
Supplier Sustainability
Program
People — Human rights
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  144 www.dsm.comGeopolitical tensions & inequalities Management approach Relevant sections
Recent political events, such as elections and
referenda, and other events, such as (the threat
of) terrorist acts, around the world show the
increasing role of tension and inequality on
global stability. These tensions have the
potential to delay or derail our efforts towards
achieving the SDGs. We address the potential impact of this topic
through stakeholder engagement activities,
such as the World Economic Forum (WEF) and
the UN Global Compact (UNGC). Corporate
Risk Management also monitors developments
in this area.Stakeholders —
Collaborative platforms
and networks
Risk management
Environment
Climate change & renewable energy Management approach Relevant sections
It is widely accepted that human activity is
responsible for climate change. Recent events,
such as repeated coral bleaching, highlight that
we need to take this topic seriously. The Paris
Agreement will set the regulatory framework
within which society needs to navigate to
achieve a less than 2°C average temperature
increase. We see tackling climate change as
both a responsibility and an opportunity for
businesses that are prepared to embrace it.
Renewable energy forms an integral part of this
topic to contribute to a low-carbon future. This
topic aligns with SDG 7 (Affordable and Clean
Energy) and SDG 13 (Climate Action).We manage this topic by reducing our own
carbon footprint. This is done via a range of
initiatives, including increasing our use of
renewable energy (our Responsible Care Plan
identifies the key metrics that influence this
topic); enabling the low-carbon economy
through innovative solutions in our value chain
(our Materials and Advanced Solar businesses
offer solutions that are lighter, more durable,
better-performing and have lower carbon
footprints); and advocating action on climate by
engaging with stakeholder groups and climate
advocates such as UNGC, the Carbon Pricing
Leadership Coalition (CPLC), RE100 and the
Dutch Sustainable Growth Coalition. We publicly
disclose our impact and strategy through,
among others, CDP.Stakeholders —
Collaborative platforms
and networks
Planet
Nutrition
Materials
Resource scarcity / Circular & bio-based
economyManagement approach Relevant sections
The circular economy is one that is restorative
by design. We include in this topic the bio-based
and sharing economies, which help to address
growing resource scarcity. We see opportunities
in product and system design, and to investigate
lower-impact business models, including
sharing models that highlight reusability,
renewability and recyclability. This topic aligns
with SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption and
Production).The circular and bio-based economy is identified
as one of DSM's sustainable growth areas and
plays a central role as a business driver. This
topic is a key driver for the strategy and portfolio
of, among others, our Materials business, our
EBA DSM Bio-based Products & Services and
our joint venture, DSM-Niaga. We engage with
likeminded partners on this topic such as the
Ellen MacArthur Foundation and Circle
Economy.Planet
Materials
Innovation CenterSustainability statements
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  145 www.dsm.comWater security Management approach Relevant sections
Water is a global issue that has local impact and
is growing in importance to society. Many areas
of the world already face water scarcity and
water pollution issues, and the impact of climate
change will only make this worse. Water
availability and water quality are issues that
impact on industry and society at large. Water
security is an operational and reputational
business risk for companies, including DSM.We are committed to the responsible use of
water resources. Our approach to water is
guided by our Responsible Care Plan, and
addresses water from a regional perspective.
Our management approach focuses our
resources on regions of water scarcity and sites
that have a relatively high groundwater
consumption or waste water discharge.
Through this risk-based approach, we ensure
that appropriate measures are taken where they
are needed most. DSM is a signatory to the UN
CEO Water mandate. We were awarded an A-
rating for our policy and performance on water
by CDP. We address water in our supply chain
via the Supplier Sustainability Program.Planet
Sustainable food systems Management approach Relevant sections
The growing global population is placing
increasing pressure on food systems to produce
larger quantities of food, and food that is more
nutritious. These food systems place pressure
on, and are under pressure from, the
environment. New and sustainable food
systems are needed to provide a reliable food
supply for society.DSM addresses food systems through our
portfolio of Animal Nutrition & Health. We explore
new opportunities in sustainable proteins such
as our Clean Cow project, the Proteins of the
Future project (e.g. CanolaPRO™), and the
Green Ocean partnership. DSM Food
Specialties provides innovative food ingredient
and packaging solutions that address food
waste through extended shelf life and more
efficient processing. We are a founding member
of FReSH where we contribute to its aim to
transform global food systems.Nutrition
Biodiversity Management approach Relevant sections
Biodiversity refers to the variety and variability of
life on earth and is an important condition for a
sustainable planet. Biodiversity supports
relevant ecosystem services that we require,
such as food, water and clean air.Biodiversity is a locally relevant issue that
potentially impacts on our operational locations.
The DSM Responsible Care Plan defines how
we monitor and assess the impact of our
operations on these locations. We support the
ambitions of the Convention on Biological
Diversity and we continue to explore the role the
Natural Capital Protocol can play in supporting
our decision making. Our position paper on
Biodiversity can be found on the company
website.Planet
Biodiversity position
paper
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  146 www.dsm.comBusiness Enablers
Open innovation Management approach Relevant sections
Open innovation encourages us to look beyond
our own borders for ideas and knowledge, and
enables us to pool capabilities and resources
with others. Companies that embrace open
innovation typically grow faster and generate
more sales. Open Innovation and new
technologies will help us deliver on the SDGs.Innovation is a key growth driver in Strategy
2018: Driving Profitable Growth. We collaborate
with our suppliers, customers and other value
chain partners to create new solutions in a
collaborative way. We employ partnerships,
funding and crowd sourcing to foster open
innovation. In 2017, the Bright Minds Challenge
drew on the knowledge and resources of
scientists around the world to address the
challenges of scalable renewable energy
solutions, and together with our partners, we
supported the scale-up of the three winning
solutions.Innovation Center
Careers & employment Management approach Relevant sections
Employees are one of the most important
stakeholder groups for a company, and careers
and employment are an important topic to
companies and their stakeholders. Employees
seek rewarding career opportunities and a
healthy work-life balance. They actively seek
companies, and engage with employers, that
share their values.Our HR strategy and policies define how we find,
retain and reward our employees. We monitor
trends in careers and employment to ensure that
our organization is able to adapt to the
challenges that we face, such as the role of
digitization, and the global footprint of our
operations and value chains. We apply the
International Labour Standards of the ILO.People —Careers &
employment
Advocacy & stakeholder engagement Management approach Relevant sections
Companies are playing an increasing role in
contributing to the SDGs. Business leaders are
urged to be advocates on issues that are
important to their business activities.
Companies should engage with internal and
external stakeholders to understand key issues
and the positions they should take.DSM is a vocal advocate on issues relating to
Climate and energy, Circular and bio-based
economy and nutrition as we believe these are
important sustainability challenges which we are
uniquely positioned to influence. We actively
manage our sustainability profile and reputation,
and ensure that we take responsibility for our
own operations.Sustainability
statements —
Stakeholder
Engagement
Stakeholders —
Collaborative platforms
and networks
Trade barriers Management approach Relevant sections
This topic is closely linked to 'Geopolitical
tensions & inequalities'. It needs specific
attention due to the potential impact of trade
barriers on our business, such as trade controls,
sanctions and embargoes, restrictions on
chemicals, and technology.The DSM Code of Business Conduct is central
to our approach on this topic. In our supply
chain, the Supplier Code of Conduct and our
Supplier Sustainability Program define our
approach. Trade Control Compliance is
managed through our standard business
processes and practices.DSM Code of Business
ConductSustainability statements
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  147 www.dsm.comDigital transformation Management approach Relevant sections
Digitization is transforming the world we live in
and the way we do business. The rise (and
potential fall) of cryptocurrencies, mobility, social
media and the sheer scale of data production
are changing the landscape in which we
operate. We see the influence of digital
transformation on business especially in the
areas of manufacturing, marketing and sales,
and careers and employment. Digital
transformation may also disrupt many of our
end-markets, from medical to automotive.Global shifts and digital transformation are
identified in Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable
Growth as one of the megatrends to which we
are responding. We are piloting big data-based
approaches in business applications and
continue to develop data science competences
within our R&D and IT disciplines. Our
Information Security Office and Privacy Policy
guide our approach towards the security of
information assets.Strategy 2018
Governance
Responsible business practices Management approach Relevant sections
Responsible business practices now includes
'Taxation', and 'Transparency and reporting'.
Companies such as ours are expected to do
business in a responsible way. This topic covers
a wide range of sub-topics including taxation;
corporate governance; human rights; labor
policies; safety, health and environment (SHE);
anti-bribery and corruption; and privacy.We take our responsibilities as a business
seriously. Our approach is guided by the Code
of Business Conduct, and in the supply chain,
by the Supplier Code of Conduct and Supplier
Sustainability Program. Our human rights policy,
HR policies and other policies cover the People-
related aspects of this topic. Our tax position is
consistent with the normal course of our
business operations and reflects our corporate
strategy as well as the geographic spread of our
activities. Through this report, and our public
statements on the company website, we provide
transparency in our reporting. Our position
paper on Taxation can be found on the company
website.People
DSM Code of Business
Conduct
Corporate governance
and risk management
Taxation position paper
Product & food safety Management approach Relevant sections
The importance of product and food safety can
be seen through the impact of poor safety
standards on employees and consumers. Poor
product and food safety can cause injury or even
death.We address the importance of product and food
safety through the Supplier Sustainability
Program and our approach to Product
Stewardship. Our business processes require
us to have practices in place that address quality
through the production, handling, preparation,
storage and use of our solutions.Planet — Product
Stewardship
Sustainability
statements — Suppliers
Review of business
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  148 www.dsm.comBioethics Management approach Relevant sections
Biotechnology has a strong role to play to
provide products and solutions that will address
growing and aging populations, and resource
scarcity. At the same time, biotechnology, such
as genetic modification, is viewed with suspicion
and concern by some sections of the
population. It is important to address these
concerns ethically and openly.We manage this topic through our consultations
with relevant scientific organizations, industry,
NGOs and governments. We use genetically
modified micro-organisms (GMMs) in the
production process of some of our products,
however we do not sell GMMs or products
containing GMMs. All GMMs are contained
within our production processes. Our position
paper on Biotechnology can be found on the
company website.Biotechnology position
paper
Product Stewardship Management approach Relevant sections
Adding Product Stewardship to our Materiality
Matrix is a reflection of the increasing
expectations of society that companies take
responsibility for their products throughout the
product lifetime. Inherent in this is our
responsibility for the hazards presented by our
products and ensuring they are managed in a
responsible way.Our Product Stewardship network manages
regulatory issues relating to Product
Stewardship and actively monitors and
participates in discussions relating to this topic.
We continually update our inventory of
Substances of (Very) High Concern within DSM
based on the latest information with the ultimate
goal of phasing out the use of toxic chemicals
throughout our value chains where possible. For
all our materials we conduct robust scientific risk
assessments of the products and production
processes to ensure that we source, make and
distribute them in a safe way.Planet — Product
StewardshipSustainability statements
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  149 www.dsm.comPhilanthropy and sponsorships
We are recognized for our efforts in our sustainable growth
areas of nutrition, climate and energy, and circular and bio-
based economy. On top of this, we also engage in
philanthropic and sponsorship activities. In 2017, we donated
more than € 
5.7 million to a range of initiatives. As outlined in
our Code of Business Conduct, we do not make political
donations. The full text of the Code can be found on the
company website.
Asia-Pacific
The Bright Experience event in China was launched together
with the World Food Programme to raise awareness and funds
to help solve the issue of child hunger and malnutrition. DSM
China has been part of the event since it was first introduced
in 2007. With this year's theme 'Solve Hunger, Bright
Experience', the event attracted DSM employees and their
families, as well as partners, from 15 sites in 14 cities including
Shanghai and Beijing.
Now in its second year, POSHAN, the CSR program in the
state of Maharashtra (India) has reached in total 2.3 million
women to communicate the importance of good nutrition for
mothers of child-bearing age. DSM is the partner in this
program supporting the offline distribution of content. In Pune
(India), our program promoted preventative health care
education and vocational skills for children, women and the
elderly.
Europe
In the Netherlands, we focus on sponsorships in knowledge
and education, innovation, arts and culture and sports. We are
engaged in long-term partnerships, such as the Nemo
Science Museum in Amsterdam; Artis Microbia (Amsterdam),
the world's first museum of microbes; the Bonnefanten
Museum in Maastricht; and Natuurmonumenten, a Dutch
association that manages and protects natural resources in
the Netherlands.
In Switzerland, we donated clothes, toiletries, toys and other
items as part of the winter charity collection of the Sovereign
Order of Malta Switzerland for people in need on the Slovakian
border, and Dyneema® gloves to 'IG der Tauchclubs beider
Basel', a diving community that cleans the Rhine river in the
Basel area. In addition, we sponsored a number of sports
clubs in the vicinity of our locations.
Latin America
In Latin America, in-kind sponsorship included campaigns in
Brazil donating winter clothing and personal hygiene items to
local institutions in the vicinity of our Brazilian sites, the
donation of MixMe™ sachets to Hai Africa, a Brazilian charity,
that were sent to Nairobi (Kenya), and Project 'New Dreams'
providing food baskets to vulnerable families in São Paulo
(Brazil).The Young Professional Project in Mairinque (Brazil) focuses
on public school students and gives them insight into the
operation of the factory. During the project, students discuss
the importance of technical and higher education, how to
choose a job/career, the reality of the labor market, the various
lines of action, opportunities for professional growth and the
activities carried out in the Mairinque factory. So far, more than
5,250 students have participated in this project.
North America
DSM contributed to the Union County College Foundation
Close the Gap initiative to provide scholarships to help African
American students complete their degrees, thus closing the
'Achievement Gap' in graduation rates between this group
and the general student population. The initiative has realized
a tripling in graduation rates since the engagement began.
We continued to work with the Global Health Corps to
underwrite the cost of two Fellows to 1,000 Days to enable
advocacy and engagement in early childhood nutrition issues
in the US and around the world.
Sight and Life
The Sight and Life Foundation is a humanitarian nutrition think
tank delivering innovative solutions to eliminate all forms of
malnutrition in children and women of childbearing age and
improve the lives of the world's most vulnerable populations.
Through continued support of the Sight and Life Foundation,
DSM furthers the advancement of research, implementation
science, innovations, and leadership capacity development in
nutrition.
The Sight and Life Foundation engaged in a public-
private partnership in Ghana, known as Affordable
Nutritious Foods for Women (ANF4W), working to establish a
market-based solution to improve the nutritional status of
women of reproductive age with fortified food products. This
included the successful launch of the Obaasima quality seal
identifying fortified products. In Nigeria, DSM announced a
new partnership with UNICEF and Sight and Life to deliver
better nutrition to at-risk children and mothers and advocate
on a global scale for micronutrient supplementation. In
addition, Sight and Life continues forces with PATH, a non-
profit organization charged with global health innovation, and
Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health on
systematic reviews of underlying causes of stunting.
Leadership is important to bring about change, therefore Sight
and Life recognized two inspiring women, Shilpa Bhatte and
Ellen Piwoz, with the Sight and Life Leadership Award at the
SUN Global Gathering in Ivory Coast. With the right mix of
funding, knowledge, technology, and enabling policy, Sight
and Life advocates with its partners the global fight against all
forms of malnutrition and micronutrient deficiencies.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  150 www.dsm.comSummary of significant accounting
policies
Basis of preparation
DSM's consolidated financial statements have been prepared
in accordance with International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union and the
provisions of section 362-8 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
The accounting policies applied by DSM comply with IFRS and
the pronouncements of the International Financial Reporting
Interpretation Committee (IFRIC) effective at 31 December
2017.
Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial
statements of Royal DSM and its subsidiaries (together 'DSM'
or 'group'). As a parent DSM is exposed, or has right to, the
variable returns from its involvement with its subsidiaries and
has the ability to affect the returns through its power over the
subsidiary. The financial data of subsidiaries are fully
consolidated. Non-controlling interests in the group's equity
and profit and loss are stated separately. A joint arrangement
is an entity in which DSM holds an interest and which is jointly
controlled by DSM and one or more other venturers under a
contractual arrangement. A joint arrangement can either be a
joint venture where DSM and the other partner(s) have rights
to the net assets of the arrangement or a joint operation where
DSM and the partner(s) have rights to the assets, and
obligations for the liabilities to the arrangement. For joint
ventures the investment in the net assets is recognized and
accounted for in accordance with the equity method. For a
joint operation, assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are
recognized in the financial statements of DSM in accordance
with the contractual entitlement or obligations of DSM.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the acquisition date until
the date on which DSM ceases to have control. From the
acquisition date onwards, all intra-group balances and
transactions and unrealized profits or losses from intra-group
transactions are eliminated, with one exception: unrealized
losses are not eliminated if there is evidence of an impairment
of the asset transferred. In such cases an impairment of the
asset is recognized.
Business combinations
Business combinations are accounted for using the
acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is measured as
the aggregate of the consideration transferred, including
liabilities incurred, measured at acquisition date fair value, and
the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed. 
As of the acquisition date identifiable, assets acquired,
liabilities assumed and any non-controlling interest in the
acquiree are recognized separately from goodwill. Identifiable
assets acquired and the liabilities assumed are measured atacquisition date fair value. For each business combination,
DSM elects whether it measures the non-controlling interest
in the acquiree at fair value or at the proportionate share of the
acquiree's identifiable net assets. Any contingent
consideration payable is measured at fair value at the
acquisition date.
Segmentation
Segment information is presented in respect to the group's
operating segments about which separate financial
information is available that is regularly evaluated by the chief
operating decision maker. DSM has determined that Nutrition,
Materials and the Innovation Center represent reportable
segments in addition to Corporate Activities. The Managing
Board decides how to allocate resources and assesses the
performance of the clusters. Cluster performance is reported
and reviewed down to the level of Adjusted EBITDA. The
clusters are organized in accordance with the type of products
produced and the nature of the markets served. The same
accounting policies that are applied for the consolidated
financial statements of DSM are also applied for the operating
segments. Prices for transactions between segments are
determined on an arm's length basis. Segment results, assets
and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment
as well as those that can reasonably and consistently be
allocated. Selected information on a country and regional
basis is provided in addition to the information about operating
segments.
Foreign currency translation
The presentation currency of the group is the euro.
Each entity of the group records transactions and balance
sheet items in its functional currency. Transactions
denominated in a currency other than the functional currency
are recorded at the spot exchange rates prevailing at the date
of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities
denominated in a currency other than the functional currency
of the entity are translated at the closing rates. Exchange
differences resulting from the settlement of these transactions
and from the translation of monetary items are recognized in
the income statement.
Non-monetary assets that are measured on the basis of
historical costs denominated in a currency other than the
functional currency continue to be translated against the rate
at initial recognition and will not result in exchange differences.
On consolidation, the balance sheets of subsidiaries that do
not have the euro as their functional currency are translated
into euro at the closing rate. The income statements of these
entities are translated into euro at the average rates for the
relevant period. Goodwill paid on acquisition is recorded in the
functional currency of the acquired entity. Exchange
differences arising from the translation of the net investment in
entities with a functional currency other than the euro areConsolidated financial statements
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  151 www.dsm.comrecorded in Other comprehensive income. The same applies
to exchange differences arising from borrowings and other
financial instruments in so far as those instruments hedge the
currency risk related to the net investment. On disposal of an
entity with a functional currency other than the euro, the
cumulative exchange differences relating to the translation of
the net investment are recognized in profit or loss.
Distinction between current and non-current
An asset (liability) is classified as current when it is expected
to be realized (settled) within 12 months after the balance
sheet date.
Intangible assets
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition
over DSM's share in the net fair value of the identifiable assets
and liabilities of an acquired subsidiary, joint venture or
associate. Goodwill paid on acquisition of subsidiaries is
included in intangible assets. Goodwill paid on acquisition of
joint ventures or associates is included in the carrying amount
of these entities. Goodwill recognized as an intangible asset is
not amortized but tested for impairment annually and when
there are indications that the carrying amount may exceed the
recoverable amount. A gain or loss on the disposal of an entity
includes the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity
sold.
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are
recognized at fair value on the date of acquisition and
subsequently amortized over their expected useful lives, which
vary from 4 to 20 years.
Separately acquired licenses, patents, drawing rights and
application software are carried at historical cost less straight-
line amortization and less any impairment losses. The
expected useful lives vary from 4 to 15 years. Costs of
software maintenance are expensed when incurred. Capital
expenditure that is directly related to the development of
application software is recognized as an intangible asset and
amortized over its estimated useful life (5-8 years).
Research costs are expensed when incurred. Development
expenditure is capitalized if the recognition criteria are met and
if it is demonstrated that it is technically feasible to complete
the asset; that the entity intends to complete the asset; that
the entity is able to sell the asset; that the asset is capable of
generating future economic benefits; that adequate resources
are available to complete the asset; and that the expenditure
attributable to the asset can be reliably measured.
Development expenditure is amortized over the asset's useful
life. Development projects under construction are included
under 'Development projects'.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less
depreciation calculated on a straight-line basis and less anyimpairment losses. Interest during construction is capitalized.
Expenditures relating to major scheduled turnarounds are
capitalized and depreciated over the period up to the next
turnaround.
Property, plant and equipment are systematically depreciated
over their estimated useful lives. The estimated remaining lives
of assets are reviewed every year, taking account of
commercial and technological obsolescence as well as normal
wear and tear. The initially assumed expected useful lives are
in principle as follows: for buildings 10-50 years; for plant and
machinery 5-15 years; for other equipment 4-10 years. Land
is not depreciated.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognized
upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are
expected to arise from the continued use or the sale of the
asset. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset is
recorded in profit or loss.
Leases
Finance leases, which transfer to the group substantially all the
risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item,
are capitalized at inception of the lease at the fair value of the
leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the
minimum lease payments. All other leases are operating
leases.
Lease payments for finance leases are apportioned to finance
charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a
constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the
liability. Finance charges are included in interest costs.
Capitalized leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of
the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Operating lease payments are recognized as an expense over
the lease term.
Associates and joint ventures
An associate is an entity over which DSM has significant
influence but no control or joint control, usually evidenced by
a shareholding that entitles DSM to between 20% and 50% of
the voting rights. A joint venture is an entity where DSM has
joint control and is entitled to its share of the net assets and
liabilities. Investments in associates and joint ventures are
accounted for by the equity method, which involves
recognition in the income statement of DSM's share of the
associate's or joint venture's profit or loss for the year
determined in accordance with the accounting policies of
DSM. Any other results at DSM in relation to associated
companies are recognized under Other results related to
associates and joint ventures. DSM's interest in an associate
or joint venture is carried in the balance sheet at its share in
the net assets of the associate or joint venture together with
goodwill paid on acquisition, less any impairment loss.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  152 www.dsm.comWhen DSM's share in the loss of an associate or joint venture
exceeds the carrying amount of that entity, the carrying
amount is reduced to zero. No further losses are recognized,
unless DSM has responsibility for obligations relating to the
entity.
Non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities
DSM initially recognizes loans and receivables and debt
securities on the date when they are originated. All other
financial assets and financial liabilities are initially recognized
on the date when DSM becomes a party to the contractual
provisions of the instrument. DSM derecognizes a financial
asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the
asset expire, or when it transfers the rights to receive the
contractual cash flows in a transaction in which substantially
all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset are
transferred, or when DSM neither transfers nor retains
substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership and
does not retain control over the transferred asset. DSM
derecognizes a financial liability when its contractual
obligations are discharged or cancelled, or expire.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net
amount is presented in the statement of financial position
when DSM has a legal right to offset the amounts and intends
either to settle them on a net basis or to realize the asset and
settle the liability simultaneously.
Loans and long-term receivables are measured at fair value
upon initial recognition and subsequently at amortized cost, if
necessary after deduction for impairment. The proceeds from
these assets and the gain or loss upon their disposal are
recognized in profit or loss.
Other financial assets
Other financial assets comprise loans to associates and joint
ventures, other participations, other receivables and other
deferred items.
Other participations comprise equity interests in entities in
which DSM has no significant influence; they are accounted
for as available-for-sale securities. These other participations
are measured against fair value, with changes in fair value
being recognized in Other comprehensive income (Fair value
reserve). A significant or prolonged decline of the fair value of
an equity interest below cost represents an impairment, which
is recognized in profit or loss. On disposal, the cumulative fair
value adjustments of the related other participations are
released from equity and included in the income statement. If
a reliable fair value cannot be established, the other
participations are recognized at cost. The proceeds from
these other participations and the gain or loss upon their
disposal are recognized in profit or loss.Impairment of assets
When there are indications that the carrying amount of a non-
current asset (an intangible asset or an item of property, plant
and equipment) may exceed the estimated recoverable
amount (the higher of its value in use and fair value less costs
to sell), the possible existence of an impairment loss is
investigated. If an asset does not generate largely independent
cash flows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash
generating unit (CGU) to which the asset belongs. In assessing
the value in use, the estimated future cash flows are
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate
that reflects current market interest rates and the risks specific
to the asset.
When the recoverable amount of a non-current asset is less
than its carrying amount, the carrying amount is impaired to
its recoverable amount and an impairment charge is
recognized in profit or loss. An impairment loss is reversed
when there has been a change in estimate that is relevant for
the determination of the asset's recoverable amount since the
last impairment loss was recognized.
All financial assets are reviewed for impairment. If there is
objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more
events after initial recognition, an impairment loss is
recognized in the income statement. Impairment losses for
goodwill and other participations are never reversed.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realizable
value. The first in, first out (FIFO) method of valuation is used
unless the nature of the inventories requires the use of a
different cost formula, in which case the weighted average
cost method is used. The cost of intermediates and finished
goods includes directly attributable costs and related
production overhead expenses. Net realizable value is
determined as the estimated selling price in the ordinary
course of business, less the estimated costs of completion
and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale. Products
whose manufacturing cost cannot be calculated because of
joint cost components are stated at net realizable value after
deduction of a margin for selling and distribution efforts.
Current receivables
Current receivables are initially recognized at fair value plus any
directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial
recognition, they are measured at amortized cost using the
effective interest method, which generally corresponds to
nominal value, less an adjustment for bad debts.
Current investments
Current investments are initially recognized at fair value plus
any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to
initial recognition, they are measured at amortized cost using
the effective interest method. Deposits with banks with aConsolidated financial statements — Summary of significant accounting policies
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  153 www.dsm.commaturity between 3 and 12 months are classified as current
investments.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at banks and in
hand and deposits held at call with banks with a maturity of
less than three months at inception. Bank overdrafts are
included in current liabilities. Cash and cash equivalents are
measured at fair value.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale
Non-current assets and disposal groups (assets and liabilities
relating to an activity that is to be sold) are classified as 'held
for sale' if their carrying amount is to be recovered principally
through a sales transaction rather than through continuing
use. The reclassification takes place when the assets are
available for immediate sale and the sale is highly probable.
These conditions are usually met as from the date on which a
letter of intent or agreement to sell is ready for signing. Non-
current assets held for sale and disposal groups are measured
at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets held for sale are not depreciated or
amortized. For transparency, non-current assets and disposal
groups that will contribute to joint ventures are reported
separately from other assets and liabilities held for sale.
Discontinued operations
Discontinued operations comprise those activities that were
disposed of during the period or which were classified as held
for sale at the end of the period, and represent a separate
major line of business or geographical area that can be clearly
distinguished for operational and financial reporting purposes.
Royal DSM Shareholders' equity
DSM's ordinary shares and cumulative preference shares are
classified as Royal DSM Shareholders' equity. This is the case
for the latter, as there is no mandatory redemption, and
distributions to the shareholders are at the discretion of DSM.
The price paid for repurchased DSM shares (treasury shares)
is deducted from Royal DSM Shareholders' equity until the
shares are cancelled or reissued. Treasury shares are
presented in the treasury share reserve. When treasury shares
are sold or reissued, the amount received is recognized as an
increase in equity, and the result on the transaction is
presented as share premium. Dividend to be distributed to
holders of cumulative preference shares is recognized as a
liability when the Supervisory Board approves the proposal for
profit distribution. Dividend to be distributed to holders of
ordinary shares is recognized as a liability when the Annual
General Meeting of Shareholders approves the profit
appropriation.
Provisions
Provisions are recognized when all of the following conditions
are met: 1) there is a present legal or constructive obligation
as a result of past events; 2) it is probable that a transfer ofeconomic benefits will settle the obligation; and 3) a reliable
estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The probable amount required to settle long-term obligations
is discounted if the effect of discounting is material. Where
discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the
passage of time is recognized as interest costs.
Borrowings
Borrowings are initially recognized at fair value of the proceeds
received, net of transaction costs. Subsequently, borrowings
are stated at amortized cost using the effective interest
method. Amortized cost is calculated taking into account any
discount or premium. Interest expenses are recorded in profit
or loss.
Where the interest rate risk relating to a long-term borrowing
is hedged through a fair value hedge, and the hedge is
effective, the carrying amount of the long-term loan is adjusted
for changes in fair value of the interest component of the
hedged loan.
Other current liabilities
Other current liabilities are measured at amortized cost, which
generally corresponds to the nominal value.
Revenue recognition
Revenues from the sale of goods or the rendering of services
are recognized upon the transfer of ownership or risk to the
buyer. They are measured at the fair value of the consideration
received. Net sales represent the invoice value less estimated
rebates and cash discount, and excluding indirect taxes.
Income relating to the sale or licensing of technologies or
technological expertise is recognized in the income statement
according to the contractually agreed transfer of the rights and
obligations associated with those technologies. This income
is reported in Net sales when the income is part of the ordinary
and recurring activities of the business and, if not, in Other
operating income. Interest income is recognized on a time-
proportion basis using the effective interest method. Dividend
income is recognized when the right to receive payment is
established.
Government grants
Government grants are recognized at their fair value if there is
reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all
related conditions will be complied with. Cost grants are
recognized as income over the periods necessary to match
the grant on a systematic basis to the cost that it is intended
to compensate. If the grant is an investment grant, its fair value
is initially recognized as deferred income in Other non-current
liabilities and then released to profit or loss over the expected
useful life of the relevant asset.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  154 www.dsm.comShare-based compensation
The costs of option plans are measured by reference to the
fair value of the options on the date on which the options are
granted. The fair value is determined using the Black-Scholes
model, taking into account market conditions linked to the
price of the DSM share. The costs of these options are
recognized in profit or loss (Employee benefits costs) during
the vesting period, together with a corresponding increase in
Equity in the case of equity-settled options or Other non-
current liabilities in the case of cash-settled options (Share
Appreciation Rights). No expense is recognized for options
that do not ultimately vest, except for options where vesting is
conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as
vesting, irrespective of whether or not the market condition is
satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are
met.
Performance shares and restricted share units (matching
shares) are granted free of charge and vest after three years
on the achievement of previously determined targets. The cost
of performance shares and restricted share units is measured
by reference to the fair value of the DSM shares on the date
on which the performance shares and restricted share units
were granted and is recognized in profit or loss (Employee
benefits costs) during the vesting period, together with a
corresponding increase in equity.
Emission rights
DSM is subject to legislation encouraging reductions in
greenhouse-gas emissions and has been awarded emission
rights (principally CO 2 emission rights) in a number of
jurisdictions. Emission rights are reserved for meeting delivery
obligations and are recognized at cost (usually zero). Revenue
is recognized when surplus emission rights are sold to third
parties. When actual emissions exceed the emission rights
available to DSM, a provision is recognized for the expected
additional costs.
Alternative performance measures (APMs)
DSM uses Alternative performance measures to present and
discuss DSM's financial results. To arrive at these APMs,
adjustments are made to material items of income and
expense arising from circumstances such as:
-
acquisitions/divestments;
- restructuring;
- impairments; and
- other.
'Other' APM adjustments can be related to onerous contracts
and litigation settlements. Other than items related to
acquisition and integration costs incurred in the first year from
the acquisition date (including non-recurring inventory value
adjustments), the threshold is € 10 million.Income tax
Income tax expense is recognized in the income statement
except to the extent that it relates to an item recognized
directly in Other comprehensive income or Shareholders'
equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the
taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted at the
balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable with
respect to previous years. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
are recognized for the expected tax consequences of
temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets
and liabilities and their tax base. Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are measured at the tax rates that have been enacted
or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date and are
expected to apply when the related deferred tax assets are
realized or the deferred tax liabilities are settled. Deferred tax
assets, including assets arising from losses carried forward
and tax credits, are recognized to the extent that it is probable
that future taxable profits will be available against which the
deductible temporary differences and unused tax losses can
be utilized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are stated at
nominal value.
Deferred taxes are not provided for the following temporary
differences: the initial recognition of goodwill; the initial
recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting
nor taxable profit; and differences relating to investments in
subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in
the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets and deferred tax
liabilities are offset and presented net when there is a legally
enforceable right to offset, and the assets and liabilities relate
to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority.
Financial derivatives
The group uses financial derivatives such as foreign currency
forward contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge risks
associated with foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations.
Financial derivatives are initially recognized in the balance
sheet at fair value. Subsequently, financial derivatives, bank
balances and deposits in foreign currency are valued against
the rates applicable on the balance sheet closing date.
Changes in fair value are recognized in profit or loss unless
cash flow hedge accounting or net investment hedge
accounting is applied. For the measurement basis, see page
203.
Changes in the fair value of financial derivatives designated
and qualifying as cash flow hedges are recognized in Other
comprehensive income (Hedging reserve) to the extent that
the hedge is effective. Upon recognition of the related asset or
liability, the cumulative gain or loss is transferred from the
Hedging reserve and included in the carrying amount of the
hedged item if it is a non-financial asset or liability. Any
ineffective portion of the changes of the fair value of the
derivative is recognized immediately in profit and loss. If theConsolidated financial statements — Summary of significant accounting policies
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  155 www.dsm.comforecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the
hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the
hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised,
or the designation is revoked, then hedge accounting is
discontinued prospectively. If the forecast transaction is no
longer expected to occur then the amount accumulated in
equity is reclassified to profit or loss. If the hedged item is a
financial asset or liability, the gain or loss is transferred to profit
or loss. Changes in the fair value of financial derivatives
designated and qualifying as net investment hedges are
recognized in Other comprehensive income (Translation
reserve) to the extent that the hedge is effective and the
change in fair value is caused by changes in currency
exchange rates. Accumulated gains and losses are released
from Other comprehensive income and are included in profit
or loss when the net investment is disposed of. Changes in
the fair value of financial derivatives designated and qualifying
as fair value hedges are immediately recognized in the income
statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the
hedged assets or liabilities attributable to the hedged risk.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits
DSM has both defined contribution plans and defined benefit
plans. In the case of defined contribution plans, obligations are
limited to the payment of contributions, which are recognized
as Employee benefits costs. In the case of defined benefit
plans, the aggregate of the value of the defined benefit
obligation and the fair value of plan assets for each plan is
recognized as a net defined benefit liability or asset. Defined
benefit obligations are determined using the projected unit
credit method. Plan assets are recognized at fair value. If the
fair value of plan assets exceeds the present value of the
defined benefit obligation, a net asset is only recognized to the
extent that the asset is available for refunds to the employer
or for reductions in future contributions to the plan. Defined
benefit pension costs consist of three elements: service costs,
net interest, and remeasurements. Service costs are part of
Employee benefits costs and consist of current service costs.
Past service costs and results of plan settlements are included
in Other operating income or expense. Net interest is part of
Financial income and expense and is determined on the basis
of the value of the net defined benefit asset or liability at the
start of the year, and on the interest on high-quality corporate
bonds. Remeasurements are actuarial gains and losses, the
return (or interest cost) on net plan assets (or liabilities)
excluding amounts included in net interest and changes in the
effect of the asset ceiling. These remeasurements are
recognized in Other comprehensive income as they occur and
are not recycled through profit or loss at a later stage.
Effect of new accounting standards
The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and
IFRIC have issued new standards, amendments to existing
standards and interpretations, some of which are not yet
effective or have not yet been endorsed by the European
Union.In 2017, no new or amended standards that had an impact on
the financial position, performance or disclosures of DSM had
to be applied for the first time. Neither were new or amended
standards adopted early and applied in 2017 for the first time.
Effect of forthcoming accounting standards not yet applied
The following accounting standards are forthcoming but are
not yet being applied by DSM. They will be adopted on the
required effective date.
IFRS 9 'Financial Instruments'
IFRS 9 will replace IAS 39 'Financial Instruments: Recognition
and Measurement'. IFRS 9 will mainly impact the classification,
measurement, and (de-)recognition of financial assets and
financial liabilities; the impairment of financial assets by
introducing an expected credit loss model; and DSM's hedge
accounting practices.
The new standard is effective for annual reporting periods
beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
Classification and Measurement
IFRS 9 contains three principal categories to classify financial
assets: measured at amortized cost, fair value through other
comprehensive income ('FVOCI'), and fair value through profit
and loss ('FVTPL'). As such, IFRS 9 eliminates the existing IAS
39 categories of held to maturity, loans and receivables, and
available for sale securities. The categorization under IFRS 9
takes place based on the business model for managing the
financial assets and the contractual cash flow characteristics
of the financial asset.
DSM assessed that the new classification and measurement
requirements mainly affect its other participations, currently
reported under 'Other financial assets'. Under its current
accounting policies, DSM accounts for other participations as
available-for-sale securities measured against fair value, with
changes in fair value being recognized in OCI or at cost (see
'Other financial assets', page 
187). Under IFRS 9, these other
participations shall initially be measured at FVTPL. However,
DSM will use the irrevocable election to present subsequent
changes in the fair value, impairment losses, and gains or
losses on disposal of these investments in OCI. Given the
limited amount of other financial assets measured at cost the
impact of re-measuring these assets to fair value is expected
to be limited. The re-measurement to fair value of those
instruments as per 1 January 2018 has not been completed.
For all other financial assets and financial liabilities, DSM
assessed that the requirements in IFRS 9 will not significantly
affect their classification and measurement. Financial
instruments currently classified as held to maturity and
measured at amortized cost will also be measured at
amortized cost under IFRS 9; and financial instruments
currently measured at FVTPL will continue to be measured on
the same basis.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  156 www.dsm.comImpairment
Under IFRS 9, the 'incurred credit loss' model currently applied
will be replaced by an expected credit loss (ECL) model. The
application of the ECL model will result in the recognition of a
small and therefore insignificant default credit loss risk for loans
to third parties and associated parties. For trade receivables,
the transition to the new model under the simplified approach
will also not have a significant impact on the valuation.
Hedge Accounting
When initially applying IFRS 9, a company may choose as its
accounting policy to continue to apply the hedge accounting
requirements of IAS 39 instead of the requirements in IFRS 9.
DSM has chosen to apply the new requirements of IFRS 9. 
IFRS 9 requires DSM to ensure that hedge accounting
relationships are aligned with DSM's risk management
objectives and strategy and to apply a more qualitative and
forward-looking approach to assessing hedge effectiveness.
IFRS 9 also introduces new requirements on rebalancing
hedge relationships and prohibiting voluntary discontinuation
of hedge accounting. Under the new model, it is possible that
more risk management strategies, particularly those involving
hedging a risk component (other than foreign currency risk) of
a non-financial item, will be likely to qualify for hedge
accounting.
Transition
DSM will apply the new rules under IFRS 9 retrospectively from
1 January 2018. The group will use the practical expedient
allowing it not to restate comparative information for prior
periods with respect to classification and measurement
changes.
IFRS 15 'Revenue from Contracts with Customers'
IFRS 15 provides a comprehensive framework for revenue
recognition. The main principle underlying this new standard
is that revenue is recognized upon the transfer of control of
goods and services to the customer. IFRS 15 replaces the
current accounting standards on revenue recognition,
including IAS 11 'Accounting for Construction Contracts' and
IAS 18 'Revenue'. The new standard is effective for annual
reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The implementation of IFRS 15 affects both the timing of the
revenue recognition and the amount of revenue recognized
within DSM's revenue categories as outlined below. DSM's
main revenue categories are 'goods sold', 'services rendered',
and 'royalties from ordinary activities'.
During 2017, DSM performed a detailed impact assessment
of IFRS 15 on its consolidated financial statements. DSM will
adopt IFRS 15 using the cumulative effect method. Under this
transition method, the cumulative impact of the adoption
should be recognized in retained earnings as of 1 January
2018 and the comparatives will not be restated. DSM's
assessment indicates that the initial effect of applying thisstandard will be immaterial. Also the new requirements under
IFRS 15 will not have a significant impact on revenue
recognition compared to the current policy of revenue
recognition.
IFRS 16 'Leases'
IFRS 16 establishes a new model for lessee accounting that
requires a lessee to recognize right-of-use assets and lease
liabilities for the rights and obligations created by leases.
Additionally, the nature of expenses related to leases will
change, as IFRS 16 replaces the straight-line operating lease
expense with a depreciation charge for right-of-use assets and
interest expense on lease liabilities. Furthermore, the
classification of cash flows will also be affected as operating
lease payments under IAS 17 are presented as operating cash
flows; whereas under the IFRS 16 model, the lease payments
will be split into a principal and an interest portion which will
both be presented as financing cash flows. The new standard
is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after
1 January 2019.
During 2017, DSM performed a preliminary impact
assessment of IFRS 16 on its consolidated financial
statements, but the company has not yet completed its
detailed assessment. The standard will primarily affect the
accounting for DSM's operating leases. The impact
assessment performed indicates that the majority of these
arrangements will meet the definition of a lease under IFRS 16,
and hence DSM will recognize a lease liability and a
corresponding right-of-use asset in respect of these leases.
Based on the preliminary impact assessment of IFRS 16, DSM
expects that the recognition of the leases will result in an
impact of around 2% of the balance sheet total. Yet the actual
impact of applying IFRS 16 on the financial statements in the
period of initial application will depend on future economic
conditions, including DSM's borrowing rate at 1 January 2019,
the composition of DSM's lease portfolio at that date, DSM's
latest assessment of whether it will exercise any lease renewal
options, and the extent to which DSM chooses to use practical
expedients and recognition exemptions, as well as the
transition approach.
New IFRIC interpretations are not expected to have a material
effect on the financial statements of DSM.Consolidated financial statements — Summary of significant accounting policies
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  157 www.dsm.comConsolidated financial statements
Consolidated income statement
x € million Notes 2017 2016
 Continuing
operationsDiscontinued
operationsTotal Continuing
operationsDiscontinued
operationsTotal
       
Net sales 5 8,632 - 8,632 7,920 - 7,920
Cost of sales 5 (5,699) - (5,699) (5,262) - (5,262)
Gross margin 2,933 - 2,933 2,658 - 2,658
       
Marketing and sales (1,221) - (1,221) (1,132) - (1,132)
Research and development (334) - (334) (309) - (309)
General and administrative (524) - (524) (552) - (552)
Other operating income 104 - 104 109 - 109
Other operating expense (112) - (112) (89) (28) (117)
 5 (2,087) - (2,087) (1,973) (28) (2,001)
       
Operating profit 846 - 846 685 (28) 657
Financial income 6 35 - 35 23 - 23
Financial expense 6 (139) - (139) (156) - (156)
       
Profit before income tax expense 742 - 742 552 (28) 524
Income tax expense 7 (115) - (115) (89) - (89)
Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures 10 (83) - (83) (38) - (38)
Other results related to associates and joint ventures 10 1,237 - 1,237 232 - 232
       
Profit for the year 1,781 - 1,781 657 (28) 629
       
Of which:       
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 17 12 - 12 8 - 8
Net profit attributable to equity holders of
Koninklijke DSM N.V. 1,769 - 1,769 649 (28) 621
       
Dividend on cumulative preference shares (8) - (8) (4) - (4)
       
Net profit available to holders of ordinary shares 1,761 - 1,761 645 (28) 617
       
Earnings per share (EPS) (in € ):       
- Net basic EPS 2 10.07 - 10.07 3.68 (0.16) 3.52
- Net diluted EPS 2 10.04 - 10.04 3.67 (0.16) 3.51
Please refer to Note 2 'Alternative performance measures' for the reconciliation to Adjusted EBITDA of € 1,445 million (2016:
€ 
1,262 million) and other adjusted IFRS performance measures.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  158 www.dsm.comConsolidated statement of comprehensive income
x € million 2017 2016
   
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss   
Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans 83 (8)
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations relating to the non-controlling interests (8) -
Equity accounted investees - share of Other comprehensive income - (6)
   
Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss   
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations   
- Change for the year (610) 216
- Reclassification adjustment to the income statement related to discontinued operations (14) (19)
Fair value reserve   
- Change for the year (3) 7
Hedging reserve   
- Change for the year 98 (52)
- Reclassification adjustment to the income statement (39) 52
- Reclassification adjustment to deferred items - (4)
   
Equity accounted investees - share of Other comprehensive income 4 (1)
   
Other comprehensive income, before tax (489) 185
   
Income tax (expense)/income relating to:   
- Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (9) 5
- Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (9) 1
- Hedging reserve (7) 2
Total income tax (expense) / income (25) 8
   
Other comprehensive income, net of tax (514) 193
   
Profit for the year 1,781 629
   
Total comprehensive income 1,267 822
   
Of which:   
- Attributable to non-controlling interests 4 8
- Attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 1,263 814Consolidated financial statements — Consolidated financial statements
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  159 www.dsm.comConsolidated balance sheet at 31 December
x € million Notes 2017 20161
   
Assets   
Non-current assets   
Intangible assets 8 3,058 3,188
Property, plant and equipment 9 3,313 3,325
Deferred tax assets 7 281 355
Share in associates and joint ventures 10 227 586
Financial derivatives 23 16 -
Other financial assets 11 475 463
 7,370 7,917
Current assets   
Inventories 12 1,848 1,800
Trade receivables 13 1,542 1,504
Income tax receivables 13 55 62
Other current receivables 13 93 87
Financial derivatives 23 41 40
Current investments 14 954 944
Cash and cash equivalents 15 899 604
 5,432 5,041
   
Total 12,802 12,958
   
Equity and liabilities   
Equity 16   
Shareholders' equity 6,962 6,072
Non-controlling interests 17 103 108
 7,065 6,180
Non-current liabilities   
Deferred tax liabilities 7 259 278
Employee benefits liabilities 24 356 490
Provisions 18 151 128
Borrowings 19 2,551 2,552
Financial derivatives 23 4 14
Other non-current liabilities 20 188 158
 3,509 3,620
Current liabilities   
Employee benefits liabilities 24 39 40
Provisions 18 53 54
Borrowings 19 77 853
Financial derivatives 23 20 239
Trade payables 21 1,452 1,376
Income tax payables 21 51 56
Other current liabilities 21 536 540
 2,228 3,158
   
Total 12,802 12,958
1Financial derivatives were previously assigned to Current assets and liabilities. These figures have now been distributed over Non-current and Current assets and liabilities, based
on the contractual term.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  160 www.dsm.comConsolidated statement of changes in equity (Note 16)
x € million Share
capitalShare
premiumTreasury
sharesOther
reservesRetained
earnings
 Total Non-
controlling
interestsTotal
equity
         
Balance at 1 January 2016 338 489 (319) 171 4,862 5,541 90 5,631
         
Dividend - - - - (296) (296) (5) (301)
Options / performance shares granted - - - 32 - 32 - 32
Options / performance shares 
exercised / canceled - - - (30) 30 - - -
Proceeds from reissued shares - - 253 - - 253 - 253
Change in DSM's share in subsidiaries - - - - - - 15 15
Repurchase of shares - - (273) - - (273) - (273)
Reclassification - - - 20 (20) - - -
Other - - - - 1 1 - 1
         
Total comprehensive income - - - 203 611 814 8 822
         
Balance at 31 December 2016 338 489 (339) 396 5,188 6,072 108 6,180
         
Dividend - - - - (320) (320) (3) (323)
Options / performance shares granted - - - 26 - 26 - 26
Options / performance shares 
exercised / canceled - - - (22) 22 - - -
Proceeds from reissued shares - - 238 - (5) 233 - 233
Change in DSM's share in subsidiaries - - - - - - (6) (6)
Repurchase of shares - - (297) - - (297) - (297)
Reclassification - - - (18) 18 - - -
Other - - - - (15) (15) - (15)
         
Total comprehensive income - - - (581) 1,844 1,263 4 1,267
         
Balance at 31 December 2017 338 489 (398) (199) 6,732 6,962 103 7,065Consolidated financial statements — Consolidated financial statements
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  161 www.dsm.comConsolidated cash flow statement (Note 26)
x € million 2017 2016
     
Operating activities     
Profit for the year  1,781  629
Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures  (1,154)  (194)
Income tax  115  89
Profit before income tax expense  742  524
Financial income and expense  104  133
Operating profit1 846  657
Depreciation, amortization and impairments  502  489
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA)1 1,348  1,146
Adjustments for:     
- (Gain) or loss from disposals (5)  (3)  
- Acquisition/divestment related in EBITDA 2  15  
- Change in provisions (3)  20  
- Defined benefit plans (61)  (27)  
 (67)  5  
Income tax received 15  7  
Income tax paid (81)  (84)  
Other 18  33  
Changes, excluding working capital  (115)  (39)
     
Operating cash flow before changes in working capital  1,233  1,107
Changes in operating working capital:     
- Inventories (201)  (138)  
- Trade receivables (121)  (115)  
- Trade payables 127  195  
 (195)  (58)  
Changes in other working capital (42)  (31)  
Changes in working capital  (237)  (89)
     
Cash provided by operating activities  996  1,018
1Please refer to Note 2 'Alternative performance measures' for the reconciliation to Adjusted EBITDA of € 1,445 million (2016: € 1,262 million) and other adjusted IFRS performance
measures.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  162 www.dsm.comConsolidated cash flow statement (Note 26) continued
x € million 2017 2016
     
Cash provided by operating activities  996  1,018
     
     
Investing activities     
Capital expenditure for:1    
- Intangible assets (98)  (63)  
- Property, plant and equipment (449)  (413)  
Payments regarding drawing rights (8)  (19)  
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 11  4  
Acquisition of subsidiaries and associates (242)  4  
Cash from net investment hedge (21)  -  
Disposal of subsidiaries, businesses and associates 1,525  80  
Additions to fixed-term deposits (1,319)  (936)  
Withdrawal from fixed-term deposits 1,286  -  
Interest received 30  40  
Other financial assets:     
- Capital payments and acquisitions (98)  (35)  
- Dividends received 4  152  
- Additions to loans granted (23)  (19)  
- Repayment of loans granted 81  8  
- Proceeds from disposals 10  3  
     
Cash from/(used in) investing activities  689  (1,194)
     
Financing activities     
Settlement derivatives internal loans (28)  -  
Capital payments from/to non-controlling interests 3  6  
Loans taken up 14  749  
Repayment of loans (818)  (4)  
Change in debt to credit institutions 10  (11)  
Repayment of commercial paper -  (150)  
Dividend paid (200)  (190)  
Interest paid (135)  (151)  
Proceeds from reissued treasury shares 107  137  
Repurchase of shares (297)  (273)  
     
Cash (used in)/from financing activities  (1,344)  113
     
Change in cash and cash equivalents  341  (63)
     
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January  604  665
Exchange differences relating to cash held  (46)  2
     
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December  899  604
1An amount of € 1 million included in capital expenditure was funded by customers (2016: € 1 million).Consolidated financial statements — Consolidated financial statements
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  163 www.dsm.comNotes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
1
General information
Unless stated otherwise, all amounts are in € million.
A list of DSM participations has been filed with the Chamber of Commerce (Netherlands) and is available from the company upon
request. The list can also be downloaded from the company website.
The preparation of financial statements requires estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities,
revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements. The
policies that management considers to be the most important to the presentation of the financial condition and results of operations
are discussed in the relevant Notes. The same holds for the issues that require management judgments or estimates about matters
that are inherently uncertain. Management cautions that future events often vary from forecasts and that estimates routinely require
adjustment. Areas of judgment that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognized in the financial statements relate
to the categorization of certain items as 'APM adjustments' relating to the alternative performance measures, the identification of
cash generating units (CGUs) and the classification of activities as 'held for sale' and 'discontinued operations'.
Key assumptions and estimates that need to be made by management relate to the useful lives of non-current assets (Notes 8
and 9), the establishment of provisions for retirement and other post-employment benefits (Note 24), the recognition and
measurement of income taxes (Note 7) and the determination of fair values for financial instruments (Note 23) and for share-based
compensation (Note 27). Furthermore, impairment testing mainly of goodwill and development projects requires judgments by
management, among others with respect to the determination of CGUs, the estimation of future cashflows, growth rates and
discount rates to apply (Notes 2, 8, 9 and 10). Significant judgment is also required for the determination of earn-out receivables
and payables in business combinations (Note 3) and for the valuation of drawing rights (Note 8). For drawing rights, the most
important judgments relate to the estimation of the required maintenance and replacement outlays. Estimates are based on
historical quoted market prices, experience and assumptions that are considered reasonable under the circumstances.
Exchange rates
The currency exchange rates that were used in preparing the consolidated financial statements are listed below for the most
important currencies.
1 euro = Exchange rate at balance sheet date Average exchange rate
 2017 2016 2017 2016
     
US dollar 1.20 1.05 1.13 1.11
Swiss franc 1.17 1.07 1.11 1.09
Pound sterling 0.89 0.85 0.88 0.82
Brazilian real 3.97 3.41 3.61 3.86
Chinese renminbi 7.80 7.29 7.63 7.34
Presentation of consolidated income statement
DSM presents expenses in the consolidated income statement in accordance with their function. This allows the presentation of
gross margin on the face of the income statement, which is a widely used performance measure in the industry. The composition
of the costs allocated to the individual functions is explained below.
Cost of sales encompasses all manufacturing costs (including raw materials, employee benefits, and depreciation and
amortization) related to goods and services captured in net sales. They are measured at their actual cost based on FIFO, or weighted
average cost.
Marketing and sales relates to the selling and marketing of goods and services, and also includes all costs that are directly related
to the sale of goods, but that are not originated by the manufacturing of the goods (e.g. freight).
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  164 www.dsm.comResearch and development consists of:
-research, which is defined as original and planned investigation undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical
knowledge and understanding; and
-development, which is defined as the application of research findings or other knowledge to a plan or design for the production
of new or substantially improved materials, devices, products, processes, systems or services before the start of commercial
production or use.
General and administrative relates to the strategic and governance role of the general management of the company as well as
the representation of DSM as a whole in the financial, political or business community. It also relates to business support activities
of staff departments that are not directly related to the other functional areas.
The discontinued operations in the consolidated income statement relate to the disposal of the caprolactam, acrylonitrile and
composite resins businesses.
2
Alternative performance measures (APMs)
In presenting and discussing DSM's financial position, operating results and net results, management uses certain alternative
performance measures not defined by IFRS. These Alternative performance measures should not be viewed in isolation as
alternatives to the equivalent IFRS measures and should be used as supplementary information in conjunction with the most directly
comparable IFRS measures. Alternative performance measures do not have standardized meaning under IFRS and therefore may
not be comparable to similar measures presented by other companies.
To provide clear reporting on the underlying developments of the business, APM adjustments are made that impact the
EBIT(DA), net profit, ROCE and the EPS. A reconciliation of these Alternative performance measures to the most directly comparable
IFRS measures can be found on page 167.
The APM adjustments to net profit, as included in the APMs, can be specified as follows:
 2017 2016
 Continuing
operationsDiscontinued
operationsTotal Continuing
operationsDiscontinued
operationsTotal
APM adjustments:       
- Acquisitions/divestments 11 - 11 (13) 28 15
- Restructuring 60 - 60 101 - 101
- Other 26 - 26 - - -
- Impairments of PPE, intangible assets and business
activities 14 - 14 18 - 18
- Income tax related to adjustments (28) - (28) (31) - (31)
- Adjustments to result in associates and joint ventures (1,158) - (1,158) (212) - (212)
       
Total APM adjustments (income)/expense (1,075) - (1,075) (137) 28 (109)Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  165 www.dsm.com2017
The APM adjustments in 2017 are listed below:
-
Restructuring costs of € 60 million relate to project costs of
the restructuring projects together with the redundancy
schemes connected to the dismissal of employees and
costs of termination of contracts.
- Acquisition and divestment costs of € 11 million relate to
acquisition costs of € 4 million for among others Amyris
Brasil and Twilmij, and the divestment costs for Innovative
Synthesis Research of € 7 million.
- The other APM adjustments of € 26 million relate mainly to
the demolition of buildings (€ 15 million), and some site
closure and relocation costs (€ 11 million).
- The impairments of property, plant and equipment (PPE)
and intangible assets of € 14 million mainly relate to asset
impairments within DSM Food Specialties (€ 4 million), DSM
Bio-based Products & Services (€ 11 million) and an asset
write-off of a plant of DSM Nutritional Products in China
(€ 7 million), offset by some reversals of impairments within
DSM Resins & Functional Materials (€ 8 million).
-APM adjustments to the result from associates mainly relate
to a gain on the sale of the shares in Patheon N.V. of € 1,250
million, offset by an impairment of the joint venture POET-
DSM of € 65 million and other associated companies of
€ 30 million in total. See Note 10 for further details.2016
The APM adjustments in 2016 are listed below:
-
Restructuring costs of € 101 million relate to project costs
of the restructuring projects together with the redundancy
schemes connected to the dismissal of employees and
costs of termination of contracts.
- The impairments of property, plant and equipment (PPE),
intangible assets, and business activities of € 18 million in
total relate mainly to the impairment of PPE at DSM
Engineering Plastics in the US (€ 10 million) and intangible
assets at DSM Bio-based Products & Services in Brazil
(€ 10 million).
-Acquisition and divestment costs of € 15 million relate to the
adjustments due to various settlements relating to the
divestment of DSM Fibre Intermediates and Composite
Resins to ChemicaInvest of € 28 million and other
acquisition-related costs (€ 4 million), offset partly by the
release of an acquisition-related liability (€ 17 million).
-APM adjustments to the result from associates mainly relate
to the gain of € 232 million on the IPO of Patheon N.V. and
the secondary offering, partly offset by financing,
reorganization and acquisition-related costs of Patheon
(€ 20 million).
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  166 www.dsm.comAlternative performance measures
 2017 2016
 Continuing
operationsDiscontinued
operations TotalContinuing
operationsDiscontinued
operations Total
       
Operating profit 846 - 846 685 (28) 657
Depreciation, amortization and impairments 502 - 502 489 - 489
EBITDA 1,348 - 1,348 1,174 (28) 1,146
       
APM adjustments to EBITDA:       
- Acquisitions/divestments 11 - 11 (13) 28 15
- Restructuring 60 - 60 101 - 101
- Other 26 - 26 - - -
Total APM adjustments 97 - 97 88 28 116
       
Adjusted EBITDA 1,445 - 1,445 1,262 - 1,262
       
Operating profit 846 - 846 685 (28) 657
       
APM adjustments to Operating profit:       
- APM adjustments to EBITDA 97 - 97 88 28 116
- Impairments of PPE and intangible assets 14 - 14 18 - 18
Total APM adjustments 111 - 111 106 28 134
       
Adjusted operating profit 957 - 957 791 - 791
       
Net profit 1,781 - 1,781 657 (28) 629
       
APM adjustments to:       
- Operating profit 111 - 111 106 28 134
- Result relating to associates/joint ventures (1,158) - (1,158) (212) - (212)
Income tax related to APM adjustments (28) - (28) (31) - (31)
Total APM adjustments (1,075) - (1,075) (137) 28 (109)
       
Adjusted net profit 706 - 706 520 - 520
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests (12) - (12) (8) - (8)
Dividend on cumulative preference shares (8) - (8) (4) - (4)
       
Adjusted net profit available to holders of ordinary
shares 686 - 686 508 - 508
       
Earnings per share       
       
Average number of ordinary shares outstanding (x 1,000)   174,795   175,100
Effect of dilution due to share options (x 1,000)   683   603
Adjusted average number of ordinary shares outstanding
(x 1,000)   175,478   175,703
       
Earnings per share (EPS) (in € ):       
- Net basic EPS 10.07 - 10.07 3.68 (0.16) 3.52
- Net diluted EPS 10.04 - 10.04 3.67 (0.16) 3.51
- Adjusted net basic EPS 3.92 - 3.92 2.90 - 2.90
- Adjusted net diluted EPS 3.91 - 3.91 2.89 - 2.89Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  167 www.dsm.comAlternative performance measures2017
  2016
 
    
Capital employed    
Intangible assets 3,058  3,188
Property, plant and equipment 3,313  3,325
Investment grants / drawing rights (104)  (109)
Inventories 1,848  1,800
Current receivables 1,690  1,653
Current liabilities (2,039)  (1,972)
Other -  4
    
Capital employed at 31 December 7,766  7,889
    
Average capital employed    
Capital employed at 1 January 7,889  7,553
Capital employed at 31 March 7,913  7,456
Capital employed at 30 June 7,692  7,616
Capital employed at 30 September 7,620  7,620
Capital employed at 31 December 7,766  7,889
    
Average capital employed 7,776  7,627
    
Adjusted operating profit 957  791
Average capital employed 7,776  7,627
ROCE in % 12.3%  10.4%
3 Change in the scope of the consolidation
Acquisitions
On 3 January 2017, DSM acquired 100% of the shares of Sunshine (Suzhou Sunshine New Materials Technology Co., Ltd.)— the
manufacturer of a novel, high-performance solar photovoltaic (PV) backsheet based on co-extrusion technology.
Through this acquisition, DSM has expanded its product portfolio for the solar PV market to include polymer backsheets that protect
PV solar cells. The total consideration amounts to € 
38 million, consisting of a cash payment of € 17 million at closing of the deal,
and an estimate of future variable earn-out payments of € 21 million (discounted; the undiscounted amount is € 28 million). The
share purchase agreement stipulates four earn-out payments dependent on Sunshine's financial performance during March 2016
to February 2020. In accordance with IFRS 3, the purchase price of Sunshine has been allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities
acquired. The resulting goodwill amounted to € 17 million. The key components within the goodwill are future technology, future
customer relationships as well as assembled workforce. The Purchase Price Allocation (PPA) of Sunshine was finalized in the course
of the year. The acquisition of Sunshine contributed € 5 million to net sales and -€ 1 million to EBITDA in 2017.
On 29 September 2017, DSM Hydrocolloids acquired a controlling interest of 59.5% in Inner Mongolia Rainbow Biotechnology
Co., Ltd. by purchasing 59.5% of the shares. This company is a high-tech enterprise focusing on the research and production of
application innovations of microbial polysaccharides and other biological gums. Via an additional capital payment in November
2017, DSM now owns 65%, with a non-controlling interest held by our partner, the founder of the company.
The total consideration amounts to € 11 million, paid in cash at closing of the deal. In accordance with IFRS 3, the purchase price
has been allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. The resulting provisional goodwill amounted to € 14 million. The
PPA is ongoing. The acquisition contributed € 1 million to net sales and € 0 million to EBITDA in 2017.
On 1 November 2017, DSM Nutritional Products acquired 100% of the shares of Twilmij B.V., a Dutch nutritional solutions company
in the animal feed sector. The acquisition of Twilmij further strengthens DSM's foothold in the Northwest-European markets. The
total consideration amounts to € 65 million, consisting of a cash payment of € 60 million at closing of the deal, and an estimate of
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  168 www.dsm.comfuture variable earn-out payments of € 5 million. The earn-out value consists of four conditional payments, due on or before 28
February 2020, mainly dependent on growth of production, net sales and gross margin. In accordance with IFRS 3, the purchase
price of Twilmij has been allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. The resulting provisional goodwill amounted to
€ 
43 million , representing the value for the innovation capability and assembled workforce. The PPA is ongoing and is expected to
result in a re-allocation from goodwill to intangible assets relating to customer relations and brands. The acquisition of Twilmij
contributed € 14 million to net sales and € 2 million to EBITDA in 2017.
On 21 December 2017, DSM Nutritional Products acquired 100% of the shares of BioCare Copenhagen A/S (Denmark) for a cash
consideration of € 44 million. With the acquisition, DSM expands its offering in gut health ingredients with probiotics. BioCare
Copenhagen is a privately-held company founded in 2012, focused on probiotics and specialized in microbial actives. BioCare
Copenhagen has multi-market distribution agreements with a number of leading dietary supplements and pharmaceutical
companies. In accordance with IFRS 3, the purchase price of BioCare Copenhagen has been allocated to identifiable assets and
liabilities acquired. The resulting provisional goodwill amounted to € 43 million. The PPA is ongoing. The acquisition of BioCare
Copenhagen did not contribute to net sales and EBITDA in 2017.
On 28 December 2017, DSM Nutritional Products acquired 100% of the shares of Amyris Brasil Ltda and established a long-term
manufacturing partnership for Amyris' high-volume products. The consideration for Amyris Brasil Ltda (which owns and operates
a production facility in Brazil) and intellectual property related to farnesene (a bio-based key intermediate for many applications) is
€ 89 million including an additional value share arrangement over a three-year period. DSM paid € 74 million in cash at closing, and
recognized a net liability of € 15 million. In accordance with IFRS 3, the purchase price of Amyris Brasil has been allocated to
identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. The resulting provisional goodwill amounted to € 41 million. The PPA is ongoing. The
acquisition of Amyris Brasil did not contribute to net sales and EBITDA in 2017.
The impact of the acquisitions on DSM's consolidated balance sheet at the date of acquisition is shown in the following table.Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  169 www.dsm.comAcquisitions 2017
 Amyris Brazil  Twilmij  Other  Total
 Book
valueFair
value  Book
valueFair
value  Book
valueFair
value  Book
valueFair
value
Assets            
Intangible assets 23 23  - -  13 36  36 59
Property, plant and equipment 26 26  16 16  21 21  63 63
Other non-current assets 18 18  - -  6 6  24 24
Inventories 3 3  6 6  6 6  15 15
Receivables 12 12  8 8  5 5  25 25
Cash and cash equivalents 1 1  (1) (1)  2 2  2 2
            
Total assets 83 83  29 29  53 76  165 188
            
Non-controlling interests - -  - -  1 1  1 1
            
Liabilities            
Non-current liabilities 18 18  - -  4 10  22 28
Current liabilities 17 17  7 7  31 31  55 55
            
Total non-controlling interests and
liabilities 35 35 - 7 7 - 36 42  78 84
            
Net assets 48 48  22 22  17 34  87 104
            
Acquisition price (in cash)  74   60   88   222
Fair value of associate contributed  -   -   1   1
Acquisition price (payable earn-out)  15   5   21   41
            
Consideration  89   65   110   264
            
Elimination book value associate  -   -   (1)   (1)
            
Goodwill  41   43   75   159
Acquisition costs recognized in APM
adjustments  1   -   2   3
Disposals
There were no material disposals in 2017.
Other changes
In 2017, DSM and Evonik established a joint operation for omega-3 fatty acid products from natural marine algae for animal nutrition.
DSM Nutritional Products and Evonik Nutrition & Care each hold a 50% share in the joint operation and will co-own the production
facility, which is to be built at an existing site of Evonik in the US and is expected to come on stream in 2019. The joint operation
plans to invest around USD 200 million in the facility (USD 100 million by each party over circa 2 years). The joint operation is named
Veramaris and is headquartered in the Netherlands. DSM accounts for the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating to
Veramaris in accordance with IFRS 11 for joint operations.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  170 www.dsm.com4 Segment information
DSM's operating segments are Nutrition, Materials and the
Innovation Center. DSM has segmented its operations per
business activity from which revenues are earned and
expenses incurred. These operating results are regularly
reviewed by the entity's chief operating decision maker
(CODM) to make decisions about resources to be allocated to
the segment and assess its performance. DSM uses Adjusted
EBITDA as the main indicator to evaluate the consolidated
performance as well as the performance per segment.
Discrete financial information is available for each identified
segment. The accounting policies of the operating segments
are the same as those described in the Significant Accounting
Policies. Transactions between segments are generally
executed at market-based prices. Interest revenue, interest
expense, and income tax expense or income are not allocated
to segments as these amounts are not included in the measure
of segment profit or loss reviewed by the CODM, or otherwise
regularly provided to the CODM.
Nutrition serves the global industries for animal feed, food and
beverages, pharmaceuticals, infant nutrition, dietary
supplements, and personal care. It does so by the production
of pure active ingredients, their incorporation into
sophisticated forms, and the provision of tailored premixes
and forward solutions.Materials is a global player in specialty plastics, which are used
in components for the electrical and electronics, automotive,
flexible food-packaging, and consumer goods industries.
Furthermore, Materials is a global player in providing
innovative, sustainable resins solutions for paints and industrial
and optical fiber coatings, as well as the fiber Dyneema®.
The Innovation Center focuses on innovation and growth of
DSM's existing core business through adjacent technologies
via its Corporate Research Program as well as through the
company's venturing and licensing activities. Additionally, it
identifies and invests in new and innovative growth options,
initially through the DSM Business Incubator. The Innovation
Center is responsible for developing and extracting value from
DSMs Emerging Business Areas.
At DSM, any consolidated activities outside the three reported
segments are reported as 'Corporate Activities'. These mainly
comprise operating and service activities as well as a number
of costs that cannot be allocated to the clusters.
DSM does not have a single external customer that represents
10% or more of total sales.Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  171 www.dsm.comBusiness segments
2017Continuing operations
Nutrition Materials Innovation
CenterCorporate
ActivitiesElimina-
tionsTotal
Financial performance       
Net sales 5,579 2,825 169 59 - 8,632
Supplies to other clusters 52 10 22 - (84) -
       
Supplies 5,631 2,835 191 59 (84) 8,632
       
Adjusted EBITDA 1,053 488 9 (105) - 1,445
EBITDA 1,022 485 10 (169) - 1,348
Adjusted operating profit 770 361 (30) (144) - 957
Operating profit 728 367 (40) (209) - 846
       
Depreciation and amortization 280 125 25 34 - 464
Impairments 14 (8) 26 6 - 38
- of which included in APM adjustments 11 (9) 11 1 - 14
Additions to provisions 17 - 6 71 - 94
Result related to associates and joint ventures - - (103) 1,257 - 1,154
R&D costs1127 112 63 32 - 334
Wages, salaries and social security costs 955 327 78 296 - 1,656
       
Financial position       
Total assets 6,811 2,162 674 3,155 - 12,802
Total liabilities 1,900 696 70 3,071 - 5,737
Capital employed at year-end 5,420 1,786 562 (2) - 7,766
Capital expenditure 407 124 43 12 - 586
Share in equity of associates and joint ventures 1 3 53 170 - 227
       
Adjusted EBITDA margin (in %) 18.9 17.3    16.7
       
Workforce       
Average in FTE 13,243 4,472 639 2,179 - 20,533
Year-end (headcount) 13,676 4,635 685 2,058 - 21,054
1R&D costs relate to the functional area Research and development and exclude R&D costs included in the functional areas Cost of sales and Marketing and sales as well as R&D
expenditure capitalized.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  172 www.dsm.comBusiness segments
2016Continuing operations
Nutrition Materials Innovation
CenterCorporate
ActivitiesElimina-
tionsTotal
Financial performance       
Net sales 5,169 2,513 167 71 - 7,920
Supplies to other clusters 55 7 23 - (85) -
       
Supplies 5,224 2,520 190 71 (85) 7,920
       
Adjusted EBITDA 931 435 1 (105) - 1,262
EBITDA 934 419 (5) (174) - 1,174
Adjusted operating profit 645 311 (24) (141) - 791
Operating profit 648 285 (38) (210) - 685
       
Depreciation and amortization 278 124 24 34 - 460
Impairments 8 10 9 2 - 29
- of which included in APM adjustments - 10 8 - - 18
Additions to provisions 4 15 3 77 - 99
Result related to associates and joint ventures - 7 (24) 211 - 194
R&D costs1104 109 64 32 - 309
Wages, salaries and social security costs 902 332 78 309 - 1,621
       
Financial position       
Total assets 6,935 2,207 826 2,990 - 12,958
Total liabilities 1,857 774 84 4,063 - 6,778
Capital employed at year-end 5,537 1,807 576 (31) - 7,889
Capital expenditure 331 106 32 16 - 485
Share in equity of associates and joint ventures 1 2 133 450 - 586
       
Adjusted EBITDA margin (in %) 18.0 17.3    15.9
       
Workforce       
Average in FTE 13,168 4,453 613 2,275 - 20,509
Year-end (headcount) 13,260 4,460 619 2,447 - 20,786
1R&D costs relate to the functional area Research and development and exclude R&D costs included in the functional areas Cost of sales and Marketing and sales as well as R&D
expenditure capitalized.Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  173 www.dsm.comGeographical information
 
2016Continuing operations  
The
Nether-
landsRest of
Western
EuropeEastern
EuropeNorth
AmericaLatin
AmericaChina India Japan Rest of
AsiaRest of
the
worldTotal
Net sales by origin            
In € million 2,006 2,444 160 1,436 544 842 73 100 241 74 7,920
In % 25 31 2 18 7 11 1 1 3 1 100
            
Net sales by destination            
In € million 303 1,877 494 1,795 989 989 178 264 787 244 7,920
In % 4 25 6 23 12 12 2 3 10 3 100
            
Workforce at year-end (headcount) 4,026 4,715 439 3,187 2,069 4,594 475 193 828 260 20,786
Average workforce (FTE) 3,944 4,575 435 3,153 2,065 4,581 498 163 823 272 20,509
            
Intangible assets and Property, plant
and equipment            
Capital expenditure 120 151 4 91 36 73 1 1 5 3 485
Carrying amount 1,587 1,703 31 2,104 376 523 18 42 104 25 6,513
            
Total assets (total DSM) 4,560 2,495 126 3,110 885 1,077 87 144 367 107 12,958
            
2017
Net sales by origin            
In € million 2,193 2,560 182 1,430 669 1,023 82 123 286 84 8,632
In % 25 30 2 17 8 12 1 1 3 1 100
            
Net sales by destination            
In € million 316 2,074 564 1,918 1,059 1,116 200 299 821 265 8,632
In % 4 24 7 22 12 13 2 3 10 3 100
            
Workforce at year-end (headcount) 3,831 4,905 504 3,264 2,078 4,593 537 195 870 277 21,054
Average workforce (FTE) 3,735 4,676 469 3,204 2,066 4,572 504 194 846 267 20,533
            
Intangible assets and Property, plant
and equipment            
Capital expenditure 134 209 4 126 45 53 4 2 6 3 586
Carrying amount 1,674 1,692 31 1,864 387 547 19 37 97 23 6,371
            
Total assets (total DSM) 4,656 2,530 141 2,739 877 1,110 104 139 403 103 12,802
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  174 www.dsm.com5 Net sales and costs
Net sales
 2017 2016
   
Continuing operations   
Goods sold 8,451 7,724
Services rendered 173 188
Royalties 8 8
   
Total 8,632 7,920
Total costs
In 2017, total operating costs amounted to € 
7.8 billion, € 0.6
billion higher than in 2016, when these costs stood at € 7.2
billion. Total operating costs in 2017 included Cost of sales
amounting to € 5.7 billion (2016: € 5.3 billion); gross margin as
a percentage of net sales stood at 34% (2016: 34%).
Employee benefits costs
 2017 2016
   
Continuing operations   
Wages and salaries 1,452 1,420
Social security costs 181 177
Pension costs (see also Note 24) 112 131
Share-based compensation (see
also Note 27) 23 24
   
Total 1,768 1,752
Depreciation, amortization and impairments
 2017 2016
   
Continuing operations   
Amortization of intangible assets 146 143
Depreciation of property, plant
and equipment 318 317
Impairment losses 38 29
   
Total 502 489Other operating income
 2017 2016
   
Continuing operations   
Release of provisions 6 19
Gain on sale of assets and
activities 20 6
Insurance benefits 4 31
Amendments/settlements
pension plans 20 18
Earn-out payments and other
settlements 28 16
Sundry 26 19
   
Total 104 109
Other operating expense
 2017 2016
   
Continuing operations   
Additions to provisions 87 74
Exchange differences 8 1
Acquisitions 3 2
Sundry 14 12
   
Total 112 89Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  175 www.dsm.com6 Financial income and expense
 2017 2016
   
Continuing operations   
Financial income   
Interest income 11 23
Fair value change commodity
hedges 14 -
Unwinding discounted
receivables 10 -
   
Total financial income 35 23
   
Financial expense   
Interest expense (125) (121)
Interest relating to defined
benefit plans (8) (10)
Capitalized interest during
construction 3 3
Exchange differences (4) (6)
Unwinding discounted payables (3) (7)
Sundry (2) (15)
   
Total financial expense (139) (156)
   
Financial income and expense (104) (133)
As of July 2017, the interest rate applied in the capitalization
of interest during construction decreased from 5% to 4%
(2016: 5%).
 7 Income tax
The income tax expense on the total result was 
€ 115 million,
which represents an effective income tax rate of 15.5%
(2016: € 89 million, representing an effective income tax rate
of 17.0%) and can be broken down as follows:
 2017 2016
   
Current tax expense:   
- Current year (78) (113)
- Prior-year adjustments (4) (10)
- Tax credits compensated 2 3
- Non-recoverable withholding
tax (1) (2)
   
 (81) (122)
Deferred tax expense:   
- Originating from temporary
differences and their reversal (19) 79
- Prior-year adjustments 2 7
- Change in tax rate 25 (4)
-Changes arising from (reversal
of) write-down deferred tax
assets 9 (17)
- Other changes in tax losses
and tax credits (51) (32)
   
 (34) 33
   
Total (115) (89)
   
Of which related to:   
- Adjusted taxable result (143) (120)
- APM adjustments 28 31
The effective tax rate on the Adjusted taxable result was 16.8%
in 2017 (2016: 18.3%). This decrease was mainly due to the
adjusted federal tax rate in the US, following the new tax
reform. The relationship between the income tax rate in the
Netherlands and the effective tax rate on the result is as
follows:
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  176 www.dsm.comEffective tax rate
in % 2017 2016
   
Domestic income tax rate 25.0 25.0
   
Tax effects of:   
- Deviating rates (4.6) (5.4)
- Rate change US tax reform (3.0) -
- Tax-exempt income and non-
deductible expense (0.5) (0.3)
- Other effects (0.1) (1.0)
   
Effective tax rate Adjusted
taxable result, continuing
operations 16.8 18.3
Discontinued operations - (1.1)
APM adjustments (see Note 2) (1.3) (0.2)
Total effective tax rate 15.5 17.0
The balance of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities
decreased by € 
55 million owing to the changes presented in
the next table:Deferred tax assets and liabilities
 2017 2016
   
Balance at 1 January   
Deferred tax assets 355 366
Deferred tax liabilities (278) (319)
   
Total 77 47
   
Changes:   
- Income tax income/(expense)
in income statement (59) 33
- Income tax: change in tax
percentage US (Federal Tax) 25 -
Income tax expense (34) 33
- Income tax: sale of Patheon
(see Note 10) (22) -
Total income statement (56) 33
   
- Income tax expense in other
comprehensive income (25) 8
- Acquisitions and disposals (5) (3)
- Exchange differences 22 (12)
- Transfer 9 4
   
Balance at 31 December 22 77
   
Of which:   
- Deferred tax assets 281 355
- Deferred tax liabilities (259) (278)Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  177 www.dsm.comIn various countries, DSM has taken standpoints regarding its tax position which may at any time be challenged, or have already
been challenged, by the tax authorities, because the authorities in question interpret the law differently. These uncertainties are
taken into account in determining the probability of realization of deferred tax assets and liabilities.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to the following balance sheet items:
Deferred tax assets and liabilities by balance sheet item
  2017  2016
 Deferred tax
assetsDeferred tax
liabilitiesDeferred tax
assetsDeferred tax
liabilities
     
Intangible assets 14 (152) 13 (209)
Property, plant and equipment 22 (159) 18 (200)
Financial assets 9 (8) 3 (1)
Inventories 53 (33) 71 (22)
Receivables 5 (17) 5 (5)
Equity 1 (1) 1 (3)
Other non-current liabilities 19 (1) 18 (1)
Non-current provisions 74 (3) 95 (6)
Other current liabilities 70 (12) 95 (3)
     
 267 (386) 319 (450)
Tax losses carried forward 141 - 208 -
Set-off (127) 127 (172) 172
     
Total 281 (259) 355 (278)
No deferred tax assets were recognized for loss carryforwards amounting to € 211 million  (2016: € 216 million ). Unrecognized loss
carryforwards amounting to € 77 million will expire in the years up to and including 2022 (2016: € 74 million up to and including
2021), € 72 million between 2023 and 2027 (2016: € 77 million between 2022 and 2026) and the remaining € 63 million between
2028 and 2032 (2016: € 65 million between 2027 and 2031).
The valuation of deferred tax assets depends on the probability of the reversal of temporary differences and the utilization of tax
loss carryforwards. Deferred tax assets are recognized for future tax benefits arising from temporary differences and for tax loss
carryforwards to the extent that the tax benefits are likely to be realized. In the Netherlands, tax losses may be carried forward for
nine years. DSM has to assess the likelihood that deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable profits. Deferred tax
assets are reduced if, and to the extent that, it is not probable that all or some portion of the deferred tax assets will be realized.
In the event that actual future results differ from estimates, and depending on tax strategies that DSM may be able to implement,
changes to the measurement of deferred taxes could be required, which could impact on the company's financial position and
profit for the year.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  178 www.dsm.com8 Intangible assets
 Goodwill Licenses
and patentsUnder
constructionDevelopment
projectsOther Total
       
Balance at 1 January 2016       
Cost 1,883 199 104 122 1,880 4,188
Amortization and impairment losses 17 91 - 36 816 960
       
Carrying amount 1,866 108 104 86 1,064 3,228
       
Changes in carrying amount:       
- Capital expenditure - 1 60 1 1 63
- Put into operation - 9 (58) 27 22 -
- Acquisitions 7 5 - - 9 21
- Amortization - (14) - (5) (124) (143)
- Decreased drawing rights obligations - - - - (88) (88)
- Other impairment losses - (9) - (6) (1) (16)
- Exchange differences 85 3 1 - 30 119
- Other reclassifications - 1 (2) (3) 8 4
       
 92 (4) 1 14 (143) (40)
Balance at 31 December 2016       
Cost 1,977 215 105 133 1,748 4,178
Amortization and impairment losses 19 111 - 33 827 990
       
Carrying amount 1,958 104 105 100 921 3,188
       
Changes in carrying amount:       
- Capital expenditure - - 26 70 2 98
- Put into operation - 32 (68) - 36 -
- Acquisitions 159 21 23 - 15 218
- Amortization - (11) - (7) (128) (146)
- Impairment losses (3) (11) - (11) (9) (34)
- Exchange differences (181) (10) (6) - (70) (267)
- Other reclassifications - - (14) 30 (15) 1
       
 (25) 21 (39) 82 (169) (130)
Balance at 31 December 2017       
Cost 1,950 225 66 215 1,657 4,113
Amortization and impairment losses 17 100 - 33 905 1,055
       
Carrying amount 1,933 125 66 182 752 3,058
The amortization of intangible assets is included in Cost of sales, Marketing and sales, Research and development and General
and administrative expenses.
Over the past few years, DSM has acquired several entities in business combinations that have been accounted for by the
acquisition method, resulting in recognition of goodwill and other intangible assets. The amounts assigned to the acquired assets
and liabilities are based on assumptions and estimates about their fair values. In making these estimates, management consults
independent, qualified appraisers if appropriate. A change in assumptions and estimates could change the values allocated to
certain assets and their estimated useful lives, which could affect the amount or timing of charges to the income statement, such
as amortization of intangible assets.Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  179 www.dsm.comThe impairment losses of € 34 million mainly relate to acquisition-related assets and development projects at DSM Innovation Center
and DSM Food Specialties. See also Note 2 'Alternative performance measures'.
The breakdown of the carrying amount of goodwill at year-end 2017 is as follows:
Goodwill per acquisition
Acquisition 2017 2016  Cash generating unitFunctional
CurrencyYear of
acquisition
       
Martek 387 444  DSM Nutritional Products USD 2011
NeoResins 358 358  DSM Resins & Functional Materials EUR 2005
Fortitech 290 333  DSM Nutritional Products USD 2012
Ocean Nutrition Canada 198 210  DSM Nutritional Products CAD 2012
Kensey Nash 135 155  DSM Biomedical USD 2012
Tortuga 102 118  DSM Nutritional Products BRL 2013
The Polymer Technology Group 73 84 DSM Biomedical USD 2008
Other acquisitions 390 256     
       
Total 1,933 1,958     
Goodwill per Cash generating unit
Cash generating unit 2017 2016
   
DSM Nutritional Products 1,189 1,198
DSM Resins & Functional
Materials 383 386
DSM Biomedical 208 238
DSM Food Specialties 59 64
DSM Dyneema 40 44
DSM Advanced Solar 16 3
DSM Engineering Plastics 15 16
DSM Hydrocolloids 14 -
DSM Bio-based Products &
Services 9 9
   
Total 1,933 1,958
The annual impairment tests of goodwill are performed in the
fourth quarter. The recoverable amount of the cash generating
units (CGUs) concerned is based on a value-in-use
calculation. DSM Nutritional Products, DSM Resins &
Functional Materials and DSM Biomedical are the three CGUs
to which significant amounts of goodwill are allocated.
The cash flow projections for the first 5 years are derived from
DSM's business plan (Corporate Strategy Dialogue) as
adopted by the Managing Board, updated on a yearly basis.
For the subsequent 5 years a gradual declining growth is
applied for mature businesses to come to a terminal value after
10 years. The terminal value growth rate is determined with
the assumption of limited inflationary growth. For emerging
businesses, an explicit forecast period of 10 years is used withthe same assumption for growth in the terminal value. The key
assumptions in the cash flow projections relate to the market
growth for the CGUs and the related revenue projections,
EBITDA developments, and the rates used for discounting
cash flows.
Key assumptions goodwill impairment tests
 2017 2016
   
Explicit forecast   
- Mature business 5 5
- Emerging business 10 10
   
Terminal value growth 1% 1%
   
Pre-tax discount rate   
- DSM Nutritional Products 8.4% 8.6%
- DSM Resins & Functional
Materials 10.3% 11.2%
- DSM Biomedical 10.6% 10.5%
   
Organic sales growth   
DSM Nutritional Products   
- Year 1-5 4-9% 3-5%
- Year 6-10 2.4% 2.4%
DSM Resins & Functional
Materials   
- Year 1-5 2-10% 3-5%
- Year 6-10 1.2% 1.2%
DSM Biomedical   
- Year 1-10 8.0% 7.7%
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  180 www.dsm.comFor DSM Nutritional Products the growth assumptions are
based on the growth of the global food and feed markets, for
DSM Resins & Functional Materials on the demand for
advanced coating resins (influenced by growth in building and
construction markets) and for DSM Biomedical on the growth
of the market for medical devices.
A sensitivity test was performed on the impairment tests of the
CGUs and showed that the conclusions of these tests would
not have been different if reasonable possible adverse change
in key parameters had been assumed. Where in 2016
headroom for Biomedical was limited and the sensitivity test
resulted in a risk of no headroom, for 2017 this is no longer
the case.
The market capitalization of DSM at 31 December 2017
amounted to € 
14,454 million (31 December 2016: € 10,334million) and was clearly above the carrying amount of net
assets, thus providing an additional indication that goodwill
was not impaired.
Development costs
The carrying amount of development costs at 31 December
2017 included € 
156 million mainly relating to strategic
projects which are not being amortized yet. The recoverable
amount of these CGUs was estimated based on the present
value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the
CGUs (value-in-use). The recoverable amount of all CGUs was
estimated to be higher than its carrying amount and no
impairment was required.
Other intangible assets
    2017 2016
 Cost Amortization Carrying
amountOf which
acquisition-
relatedOf which
acquisition-
related
      
Application software 258 (186) 72 4 11
Marketing-related 93 (26) 67 67 54
Customer-related 537 (242) 295 249 275
Technology-based 460 (376) 84 63 188
Drawing rights 237 (39) 198 - -
Other 72 (36) 36 13 12
      
Total 1,657 (905) 752 396 540
      
Total 2016 1,748 (827) 921 540  
Other intangible assets include drawing rights contracts with
the partnership ChemicaInvest. ChemicaInvest will continue to
supply at least 80% of DSM Engineering Plastics' caprolactam
needs in Europe and North America for 15 years (2015-2030)
via a drawing rights contract, effectively maintaining DSM
Engineering Plastics' backward integration. Initially the fair
value of this contract has been recognized as an intangible
asset by DSM Engineering Plastics; for subsequent
measurement, the initial fair value is the deemed cost of the
asset, which is subject to straight-line amortization.
At the end of 2017, it had a carrying amount of € 
198 million
(2016: € 220 million) and a remaining useful life of 13 years,and an amount of € 72 million was still payable to
ChemicaInvest for the acquisition of the drawing rights (2016:
€ 74 million). Other intangible assets also include the customer
relationships that were part of the Fortitech acquisition in
2012, with a carrying amount at the end of 2017 of € 99 million
(2016: € 
124 million). Furthermore, acquisition-related
intangibles are included in the annual goodwill impairment test
previously discussed in this section. These intangible assets
are amortized on a straight-line basis, except for the intangible
assets with an indefinite useful life, which amount to € 46
million (2016: € 52 million).Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  181 www.dsm.com9 Property, plant and equipment
 Land and
buildingsPlant and
machineryOther
equip-
mentUnder
construc-
tionNot used for
operating
activitiesTotal
Balance at 1 January 2016       
Cost 2,013 3,825 206 547 15 6,606
Depreciation and impairment losses 827 2,458 140 1 9 3,435
       
Carrying amount 1,186 1,367 66 546 6 3,171
       
Changes in carrying amount:       
- Capital expenditure 2 26 4 390 - 422
- Put into operation 110 315 14 (439) - -
- Acquisitions 10 1 - - - 11
- Disposals (2) - - - - (2)
- Depreciation (73) (226) (18) - - (317)
- Impairment losses - (15) - - - (15)
- Impairment reversals - 2 - - - 2
- Exchange differences 28 11 2 13 - 54
- Other reclassifications - - (2) (3) 1 (4)
- Other changes (2) 6 - - (1) 3
       
 73 120 - (39) - 154
Balance at 31 December 2016       
Cost 2,138 4,176 220 508 15 7,057
Depreciation and impairment losses 879 2,689 154 1 9 3,732
       
Carrying amount 1,259 1,487 66 507 6 3,325
       
Changes in carrying amount:       
- Capital expenditure 8 54 4 422 - 488
- Put into operation 71 183 16 (270) - -
- Acquisitions 12 48 1 2 - 63
- Disposals (4) (1) (1) - - (6)
- Depreciation (73) (226) (19) - - (318)
- Impairment losses (5) (7) (2) (1) - (15)
- Impairment reversals - 11 - - - 11
- Exchange differences (89) (97) (4) (43) - (233)
- Other reclassification 2 (1) 1 (3) - (1)
- Other changes - - - (1) - (1)
       
 (78) (36) (4) 106 - (12)
Balance at 31 December 2017       
Cost 2,070 4,177 219 613 14 7,093
Depreciation and impairment losses 889 2,726 157 - 8 3,780
       
Carrying amount 1,181 1,451 62 613 6 3,313
There were no material finance lease agreements in 2017 (as was the case in 2016).
In 2017, impairment losses of € 
15 million were recognized on property, plant and equipment. See also Note 2 'Alternative
performance measures'.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  182 www.dsm.com10 Associates and joint ventures
Material associates and joint ventures for DSM are DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals (DSP), Patheon, ChemicaInvest, and POET-
DSM Advanced Biofuels. DSP was formed in 2011 as a fifty-fifty joint venture between DSM and Sinochem Group. DSP is the
global leader in sustainable antibiotics, next-generation statins, and anti-fungals. DSP develops, produces, and sells intermediates,
active pharmaceutical ingredients, and drug products. Patheon was formed in 2014 between DSM and JLL Partners, combining
the businesses of DSM Pharmaceutical Products and Patheon. Patheon is a leading, global provider of outsourced pharmaceutical
development and manufacturing services, ranging from formulation development to clinical and commercial-scale manufacturing,
packaging, and life cycle management. DSM sold its interest in Patheon N.V. in 2017. ChemicaInvest is a leader in the production
and supply of caprolactam, acrylonitrile, and composite resins. DSM has a 35% shareholding in the company. The joint venture
between POET and DSM operates a start-up commercial-scale production facility for cellulosic bio-ethanol in the US.
The interests in POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels and DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals are classified as joint ventures in accordance
with IFRS 11 and accounted for using the equity method. DSM has had a 35% interest and significant influence in ChemicaInvest
since the formation of this partnership in July 2015. DSM accounts for this interest using the equity method as well. Relations with
these joint ventures and associates and their strategic importance are discussed in more detail in sections 'Innovation Center
' and
'Partnerships' in the Report by the Managing Board.
DSM had a 49% interest and significant influence in Patheon as of the formation of this company early in 2014; this decreased to
33.5% at the end of July 2016, following a successful IPO and secondary offering. On 29 August 2017, the remaining shares in
Patheon N.V. were sold to Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.
DSM's share in its most important associates and joint ventures is disclosed below:
Company   DSM interest
  2017 2016
    
DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals, Ltd. (Hong Kong, China) joint control 50% 50%
POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels LLC (Sioux Falls, South Dakota, USA) joint control 50% 50%
Patheon N.V. (Amsterdam, Netherlands) - - 33.5%
ChemicaInvest Holding B.V. (Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands) significant influence 35% 35%
The following tables provide an overview of DSM's investments in associates and joint ventures, the bridge between 'Profit for the
year' of the associates as shown in this Note, and the lines 'Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures' and 'Other results
related to associates and joint ventures' in the Consolidated income statement.Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  183 www.dsm.comAssociates and joint ventures
 2017 2016
 Patheon
N.V.DSP Chemica-
InvestPOET-DSM Other1Total  
Share in associates and joint ventures        
        
Balance at 1 January 279 130 - 117 60 586 644
        
Changes:        
- Share in results 10 9 5 (100) (20) (96) (47)
- Capital payments - - - 43 17 60 33
- Dividend / capital repayments - - - - (4) (4) (152)
- Disposals (249) - - - - (249) 128
- Consolidation changes - - - - (4) (4) (10)
- Impairments - - - - (20) (20) -
- Transfers - 5 - - 6 11 (27)
- Exchange differences (41) (4) 2 (12) (3) (58) 17
- Other 1 - - - - 1 -
Total changes (279) 10 7 (69) (28) (359) (58)
        
Balance at 31 December - 140 7 48 32 227 586
        
Loans to associates and joint ventures (see note
11)  12 181 - - 193 253
        
Total balance at 31 December associates and
joint ventures - 152 188 48 32 420 839
1Among others Africa Improved Foods and Limburg Ventures are included in Other.
Profit of associates and joint ventures
 2017 2016
 Patheon
N.V.1DSP Chemica-
InvestPOET-DSM Other Total
 
        
Profit for the year (100%) 28 19 82 (199)    
Non-controlling interest - - (13) -    
Net profit shareholders (100%) 28 19 69 (199)    
DSM's %-share in capital - 50% 35% 50%    
Share in result based upon %-share 10 9 25 (100) (20) (76) (67)
Share in losses in excess of investment - - (20) - - (20) 20
Share in result of associates and joint ventures 10 9 5 (100) (20) (96) (47)
Tax on VoFs and LLCs - - - 13 - 13 9
Share in result associates and JVs 10 9 5 (87) (20) (83) (38)
        
Book profit Patheon 1,250 - - - - 1,250 232
Other 3 - 3 - (19) (13) -
Other result share in associates and JVs 1,253 - 3 - (19) 1,237 232
        
Total result related to associates and JVs 1,263 9 8 (87) (39) 1,154 194
1Period 1 November 2016 until 15 May 2017.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  184 www.dsm.comLoans include a € 41 million shareholder loan with an annual
fixed interest rate of 9.875% and € 
140 million bridge loans
with an annually rising interest rate from 7 to 10%, both with
an expected 4-year maturity, granted to ChemicaInvest; a loan
of € 12 million to DSP maturing in 2019; a USD 50 million loan
to POET-DSM with a 5% interest rate has been fully repaid in
2017.
Patheon is included from 1 November 2015 until the end of
fiscal year 2016 (31 October) for 2016 and from 1 November
2016 until 15 May 2017 (transfer to assets held for sale at that
date) for 2017. On 29 August 2017, DSM sold its 33.5%
interest or 48.7 million shares in Patheon N.V. to Thermo
Fisher Scientific Inc. as part of a tender offer to acquire all of
the issued and outstanding shares of Patheon for USD 35.00
per ordinary share in cash. As a consequence, DSM realized
a cash in-flow of € 1,535 million (investing activities) and a profit
of € 1,250 million, which is recorded as Other results related
to associates and joint ventures.
Divestment of share in Patheon
Book value associate 249
Earn-out receivable 32
Total book value 281
  
Consideration 1,503
Earn-out receivable 32
Total consideration 1,535
Book result 1,254
  
Income tax (22)
Book result after tax 1,232
Release of translation reserve and hedging
reserve to Income statement 18
  
Total transaction result in income
statement 1,250In 2016, the equity value of ChemicaInvest was -€ 74 million
on a 100% basis, DSM decreased its carrying amount in this
associate to zero and did not recognize any further losses on
its investment in the associate, as DSM has no obligation to
fund beyond its net interest in ChemicaInvest. In 2017,
ChemicaInvest showed a very good financial recovery, which
resulted in a net profit of € 82 million on a 100% basis, leading
to a carrying amount of the investment for DSM of € 
7 million.
At year-end the total assets of POET-DSM amounted to € 126
million (2016: € 293 million) on a 100% basis. The POET-DSM
Advanced Biofuels joint venture has a commercial-scale
production facility for cellulosic bio-ethanol in Emmetsburg
(Iowa, USA). It processes corn-crop residues through a
bioconversion process using enzymatic hydrolysis followed by
fermentation. In the third quarter of 2017, an impairment test
was carried out, triggered by the delays in the start-up
together with the pre-treatment re-design. The impairment
test based on the adjusted cashflows of the ten-year plan
where the terminal growth rate was set at 1.5% (2016: 1.5%),
and the pre-tax discount rate at 11.8% (2016: 12.3%), led to
an impairment for DSM of € 65 million, which is included in
'Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures' and the
value-in-use now equals the carrying amount. Nonetheless,
POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels made progress in 2017 after
a period of significant delays throughout the industry. In
particular, progress was made in the development of
advanced enzymes, which will now be manufactured on-site,
as well as in yeast technology. The pre-treatment set-up has
recently been re-designed, with the aim to improve
performance.
The table on the next page gives an overview of associates
and joint ventures (on a 100% basis).Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  185 www.dsm.comAssociates and joint ventures on a 100% basis
 DSP ChemicaInvest POET-DSM Other
 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016
Assets         
Intangible assets 32 26 76 107 - - 17 8
Property, plant and equipment 199 219 261 270 110 279 130 87
Other non-current assets 24 28 125 137 6 - 31 24
Inventories 87 82 115 112 5 10 18 13
Receivables 145 142 342 366 2 3 30 13
Cash and cash equivalents 74 92 328 158 3 1 88 95
Other current assets 7 - - - - - - -
Total assets 568 589 1,247 1,150 126 293 314 240
         
Liabilities         
Provisions (non-current) 8 1 76 68 19 8 9 -
Borrowings (non-current) 38 15 596 561 4 48 58 45
Other non-current liabilities 8 9 82 127 - - 8 2
Provisions (current) - - 32 87 - - 3 -
Borrowings and financial derivatives (current) 88 144 101 78 1 - 32 14
Other current liabilities 141 154 344 303 5 4 42 43
Total liabilities 283 323 1,231 1,224 29 60 152 104
         
Net assets (100% basis) 285 266 16 (74) 97 233 162 136
Of which non-controlling interest (5) (5) (9) 3   (16) -
Net assets excluding goodwill 285 266 16 (74) 97 233 162 136
Contingent liabilities - 5 - 54 - - - -
         
Summarized statement of profit or loss         
Revenue (net sales) 440 431 1,933 1,802 8 2 72 43
Operating profit (EBIT) 42 34 156 (37) (189) (40) (63) (32)
Financial income 1 1 2 1 - - 1 -
Financial expense (8) (12) (69) (52) (3) (3) (6) (4)
Share of the profit of associates - - 7 6 - - (2) 1
Profit before income tax expense 35 23 96 (82) (192) (43) (70) (35)
Income tax expense (16) (9) (6) (1) (7) (5) 5 (19)
Profit for the year (continuing operations) 19 14 90 (83) (199) (48) (65) (54)
Post-tax result discontinued operations - - (8) - - - - 5
Profit for the year (total) 19 14 82 (83) (199) (48) (65) (49)
Other comprehensive income - - - - - - - -
Total comprehensive income 19 14 82 (83) (199) (48) (65) (49)
of which non-controlling interest - (1) 13 - - - (10) (18)
         
Adjusted EBITDA 73 62 205 105 (30) (27) (22) (22)
EBITDA 73 62 205 23 (30) (27) (22) (22)
Depreciation, amortization and impairment (31) (28) (49) (60) (159) (13) (41) (10)
 
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  186 www.dsm.com11 Other financial assets
 Loans
associates and
joint venturesOther
participationsOther
receivablesOther
deferred
itemsTotal
      
Balance at 1 January 2016 228 51 113 27 419
      
Changes:      
- Charged to the income statement - (9) 3 (6) (12)
- Capital payments - 3 - - 3
- Disposals - (3) 2 - (1)
- Loans granted 31 - - - 31
- Repayments - - (4) 2 (2)
- Consolidation changes - - - - -
- Exchange differences 3 - 5 1 9
- Transfers (8) - 33 (2) 23
- Changes in fair value - 7 - - 7
- Other (1) 1 (16) 2 (14)
      
Balance at 31 December 2016 253 50 136 24 463
      
Changes:      
- Charged to the income statement 12 (8) 31 (6) 29
- Acquisitions - 7 18 2 27
- Capital payments - 47 - - 47
- Disposals - (3) - - (3)
- Loans granted / prepayments - - 49 - 49
- Repayments (65) - (47) - (112)
- Consolidation changes (2) - - - (2)
- Exchange differences (4) (4) (9) (1) (18)
- Transfers (1) 1 (2) - (2)
- Changes in fair value - (1) - - (1)
- Other - - 1 (3) (2)
      
Balance at 31 December 2017 193 89 177 16 475
For Loans associates and joint ventures, see also Note 10 'Associates and joint ventures'.
Other participations relate to equity instruments in companies whose activities support DSM's business and which can be quoted
or unquoted. An amount of € 
42 million included in Other participations relate to equity instruments measured at cost (2016:
€ 26 million).
In 2017, DSM made an equity investment in Amyris, Inc., an industrial bioscience company in the US for an amount of € 34 million,
which is included under Capital payments.
Repayments of € 47 million in Other receivables include the settlement of € 32 million relating to the earn-out receivable of Patheon.
See also Note 10 'Associates and joint ventures'.Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  187 www.dsm.com12 Inventories
 2017 2016
   
Raw materials and consumables 517 504
Intermediates and finished
goods 1,392 1,359
   
 1,909 1,863
Adjustments to lower net
realizable value (61) (63)
   
Total 1,848 1,800
The carrying amount of inventories adjusted to net realizable
value (before reclassification to held for sale) was
€ 
216 million (2016: € 240 million).
At the end of 2017, there were no inventories reclassified to
held for sale (2016: none).
Changes in the adjustment to net realizable value
 2017 2016
   
Balance at 1 January (63) (48)
   
Additions charged to income
statement (99) (101)
Utilization/reversals 97 86
Exchange differences 4 -
Balance at 31 December (61) (63)13 Current receivables
 2017 2016
   
Trade receivables   
Trade accounts receivable 1,528 1,490
Deferred items 29 24
Receivables from associates 6 15
 1,563 1,529
Adjustment for bad debts (21) (25)
   
Total Trade receivables 1,542 1,504
   
Income tax receivable 55 62
   
Other current receivables   
Other taxes and social security
contributions 36 31
Employee related receivables 15 9
Acquisition related receivables 8 -
Loans 7 25
Receivables associates and joint
ventures relating to cash facility 21 17
Other receivables 4 3
Deferred items 2 2
   
Total Other current
receivables 93 87
   
Total current receivables 1,690 1,653
Deferred items comprised € 31 million (2016: € 26 million) in
prepaid expenses that will impact profit or loss in future
periods.
With respect to trade accounts receivable that are neither
impaired nor past due, there are no indications that the
debtors will not meet their payment obligations. An aging
overview of Trade receivables related to commercial
transactions amounting to € 
1,356 million (2016:
€ 1,343 million) is provided on the next page. The remaining
balance reported as Trade receivables amounting to € 172
million (2016: € 146 million) is excluded from this analysis
because it principally concerns reclaimable VAT and accruals
that are not related to the payment behavior of customers.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  188 www.dsm.comAging overview Trade receivables
in % 2017 2016
   
Neither past due nor impaired 80 82
1-29 days overdue 14 12
30-89 days overdue 5 3
90 days or more overdue 1 3
The changes in the allowance for doubtful accounts receivable
are as follows:
 2017 2016
   
Balance at 1 January (25) (17)
   
Additions charged to income
statement (7) (12)
Deductions 10 5
Exchange differences 1 (1)
Balance at 31 December (21) (25)
14 Current investments
 2017 2016
   
Fixed term deposits 954 944
   
Total 954 944
All fixed-term deposits have been placed with institutions with
a high credit rating in line with the policy as outlined in Note 23
'Financial instruments and risks'. The deposits earn interest
relative to the fixed term.
The change in current investments is mainly due to the
redemption of the € 750 million bond in October 2017, and the
sale of Patheon shares in August 2017.
 15 Cash and cash equivalents
 2017 2016
   
Deposits 282 33
Cash at bank and in hand 596 556
Payments in transit 19 10
Bills of exchange 2 5
   
Total 899 604
Cash at year-end 2017 was not being used as collateral and
therefore was not restricted (2016: restricted for € 1 million). In
a few countries DSM faces cross-border foreign exchange
controls and/or other legal restrictions that limit its ability to
make these balances available on short notice for general use
by the group. The amount of cash held in these countries was
€ 
116 million (2016: € 109 million). The cash will generally be
invested or held in the relevant country and, given the other
capital resources available to the group, does not significantly
affect the ability of the group to meet its cash obligations.
Cash held by DSM includes cash from certain associates and
joint ventures that continue to participate in the cash-pooling
arrangements of DSM. At the end of 2017, the amount had
decreased by € 43 million to € 19 million. See also Note 21
'Current liabilities'.Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  189 www.dsm.com16 Equity
 2017 2016
   
Balance at 1 January 6,180 5,631
   
Net profit 1,781 629
Net exchange differences (645) 197
Net actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit obligations 74 (9)
Dividend (323) (301)
Proceeds from reissue of ordinary shares 233 253
Repurchase of shares (297) (273)
Other changes 62 53
   
Balance at 31 December 7,065 6,180
After the balance sheet date, the following dividends were declared by the Managing Board:
Dividend
 2017 2016
   
Per cumulative preference share A: € 0.17 (2016: € 0.17) 8 8
Per ordinary share: € 1.85 (2016: € 1.75) 323 306
   
Total 331 314
The proposed final dividend on ordinary shares is subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and has not
been deducted from Equity.
For a description of the rules of profit appropriation and of the statutory rights attached to preference shares B, see page 220.
Share capital
On 31 December 2017, the authorized capital amounted to € 1,125 million (2016: € 1,125 million), distributed over 330,960,000
ordinary shares, 44,040,000 cumulative preference shares A and 375,000,000 cumulative preference shares B. All shares have a
nominal value of € 
1.50 each.
The changes in the number of issued and outstanding shares in 2016 and 2017 are shown in the following table.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  190 www.dsm.comOverview of shares
 Issued shares Treasury shares
 Ordinary Cumprefs A Ordinary
    
Balance at 1 January 2016 181,425,000 44,040,000 6,501,973
Reissue of shares in connection with share-based payments   (3,243,102)
Repurchase of shares   5,200,000
Dividend in the form of ordinary shares   (2,035,537)
    
Balance at 31 December 2016 181,425,000 44,040,000 6,423,334
Number of treasury shares at 31 December 2016 (6,423,334) -  
 
    
Number of shares outstanding at 31 December 2016 175,001,666 44,040,000
    
    
Balance at 1 January 2017 181,425,000 44,040,000 6,423,334
Reissue of shares in connection with share-based payments   (2,238,144)
Repurchase of shares   4,500,000
Dividend in the form of ordinary shares   (1,903,665)
    
Balance at 31 December 2017 181,425,000 44,040,000 6,781,525
Number of treasury shares at 31 December 2017 (6,781,525) -  
 
    
Number of shares outstanding at 31 December 2017 174,643,475 44,040,000
The average number of ordinary shares outstanding in 2017 was 174,794,656 (2016: 175,099,827). All shares issued are fully
paid.
The cumulative preference shares A have been classified as equity because there is no mandatory redemption and distributions
to the shareholders are at the discretion of DSM.
On 31 December 2017, no cumulative preference shares B were outstanding.
Share premium
Of the total share premium of € 489 million (2016: € 489 million), an amount of € 101 million (2016: € 104 million) can be regarded
as entirely free of tax.
Treasury shares
At 31 December 2017, DSM possessed 6,781,525 ordinary shares (nominal value € 10 million, 3.01% of the share capital). The
average purchase price of the ordinary treasury shares was € 
58.70. At 31 December 2017, 6,706,342 of the total number of
treasury shares outstanding were held for servicing management and personnel share-option rights and share plans. The
remainder, 75,183 shares, is the balance of the holding for this purpose at start of the year, the shares that were purchased under
the company's share buy-back program in 2017 and shares that were reissued as stock dividend in 2017.
At 31 December 2016, DSM possessed 6,423,334 ordinary shares (nominal value € 10 million, 2.85% of the share capital). The
average purchase price of the ordinary treasury shares was € 52.77. At 31 December 2016, 6,044,486 of the total number of
treasury shares outstanding were held for servicing management and personnel share-option rights. The remainder − 378,848
shares − is the balance of shares that were purchased under the company's share buy-back program in 2007, 2008 and 2016
and shares that were reissued as stock dividend in the years 2011 through 2016.Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  191 www.dsm.comOther reserves in Shareholders' equity
 Translation
reserve Hedging reserveReserve for
share-based
compensationFair value
reserve Total
      
Balance at 1 January 2016 314 (203) 63 (3) 171
      
Changes:      
Fair-value changes of derivatives - (52) - - (52)
Release to income statement (19) 52 - - 33
Release to deferred items - (4) - - (4)
Fair-value changes of other financial assets - - - 7 7
Exchange differences 216 - - - 216
Options and performance shares granted - - 32 - 32
Options and performance shares exercised/canceled - - (30) - (30)
Reclassification118 (2) - 4 20
Income tax 1 2 - - 3
      
Total changes 216 (4) 2 11 225
      
Balance at 31 December 2016 530 (207) 65 8 396
      
Changes:      
Fair-value changes of derivatives - 98 - - 98
Release to income statement (14) (39) - - (53)
Fair-value changes of other financial assets - - - (3) (3)
Exchange differences (610) - - - (610)
Options and performance shares granted - - 26 - 26
Options and performance shares exercised/canceled - - (22) - (22)
Reclassification - - (18) - (18)
Changes in joint ventures and associates (4) 7 - - 3
Income tax (9) (7) - - (16)
      
Total changes (637) 59 (14) (3) (595)
      
Balance at 31 December 2017 (107) (148) 51 5 (199)
1Reclassification to retained earnings.
The decrease in the Translation reserve in 2017 is mainly caused by strengthening of the euro compared to the US dollar, Swiss
franc, Chinese renminbi and the Brazilian real. As a consequence the value of the subsidiaries in those countries decreased, which
led to a negative exchange difference of € 
610 million. Next to this there was a € 14 million release of the cumulative translation
reserve of Patheon to the income statement.
The Translation reserve, Hedging reserve and the Fair value reserve are legal reserves in accordance with Dutch law and cannot
be distributed to shareholders. Additional information is provided in Note 7 to the 'Parent company financial statements'.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  192 www.dsm.com17 Non-controlling interests
 2017 2016
 Andre Pectin Other Total Total
% of non-controlling interest 71%    
     
Balance at 1 January 64 44 108 90
     
Changes:     
- Share of profit/charged to income statement 8 4 12 8
- Acquisitions - 1 1 6
- Capital payments - 3 3 9
- Dividend paid - (3) (3) (5)
- Change in ownership percentage - (9) (9) -
- Exchange differences (5) (3) (8) -
- Other - (1) (1) -
     
Total changes 3 (8) (5) 18
     
Balance at 31 December 67 36 103 108
Not fully-owned subsidiaries on a 100% basis
 Andre Pectin Other
 2017 2016 2017 2016
Assets     
Intangible assets 22 26 32 38
Property, plant and equipment 26 28 159 197
Other non-current assets - - 29 27
Inventories 29 29 22 25
Receivables 46 23 63 56
Cash and cash equivalents 2 3 26 32
     
Total assets 125 109 331 375
     
Liabilities     
Provisions (non-current) 3 4 1 3
Borrowings (non-current) - - 15 23
Other non-current liabilities - - 23 26
Borrowings and financial derivatives (current) 3 3 70 85
Other current liabilities 24 12 80 80
     
Total liabilities 30 19 189 217
     
Net assets (100% basis) 95 90 142 158
     
Net sales 47 55 227 202
Profit for the year 11 13 11 (6)
Total comprehensive income - (1) - 1
Operating cash flows 6 15 29 18
Dividend paid to non-controlling interests - - 3 5Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  193 www.dsm.com18 Provisions
 Restructuring
costs and
termination
benefitsEnvironmental
costsOther long-
term employee
benefitsOther
provisionsTotal
      
Balance at 1 January 2016 39 27 44 29 139
Of which current 28 2 3 8 41
      
Changes in 2016:      
- Additions 59 28 1 13 101
- Releases (3) (2) - - (5)
- Uses (34) (4) (1) (15) (54)
- Exchange differences 1 - - - 1
      
Total changes 23 22 - (2) 43
      
Balance at 31 December 2016 62 49 44 27 182
Of which current 35 7 3 9 54
      
Changes in 2017:      
- Additions 30 27 2 35 94
- Releases (2) - - (4) (6)
- Uses (50) (6) (3) (8) (67)
- Exchange differences (1) - (1) (1) (3)
- Other change - - - 4 4
      
Total changes (23) 21 (2) 26 22
      
Balance at 31 December 2017 39 70 42 53 204
Of which current 31 10 3 9 53
In cases where the effect of the time value of money is material,
provisions are measured at the present value of the
expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation.
The discount rate used increased from 1.7% to 1.9%. The
balance of provisions measured at present value increased by
€ 
0.3 million in 2017 in view of the passage of time (2016:
increase of € 0.7 million).
The provisions for restructuring costs and termination benefits
mainly relate to the costs of redundancy schemes connected
to the dismissal of employees and costs of termination of
contracts. These provisions have an average life of 1 to 3
years.
The provisions for environmental costs relate to soil clean-up
obligations, among other things. These provisions have an
average life of around 10 years.The addition to the provision for environmental costs relates
mainly to discontinued businesses in the US and the
Netherlands, next to the existing soil remediation plans.
The provisions for other long-term employee benefits mainly
relate to length-of-service and end-of-service payments. The
average life of this provision is estimated to be between 10 and
12 years.
Several items have been combined under Other provisions, for
example demolition costs, onerous contracts and legal risks.
These provisions have an average life of 1 to 3 years.
The additions to the provisions for restructuring costs and
termination benefits in 2017 mainly relate to the various
restructuring projects (same as in 2016), in particular for the
support functions (€ 
16 million).
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  194 www.dsm.com19 Borrowings
 2017 2016
 Total Of which
currentTotal Of which
current
     
Debenture loans 2,542 - 3,290 749
Private loans 13 8 44 37
Finance lease
liabilities 4 - 4 -
Credit institutions 69 69 67 67
     
Total 2,628 77 3,405 853
In agreements governing loans with a residual amount at year-
end 2017 of € 2,542 million, of which € 0 million was of a short-
term nature (31 December 2016: € 
3,290 million, of which
€ 749 million was of a short-term nature), negative pledge
clauses have been included that restrict the provision of
security.
The documentation of the € 750 million bond issued in
October 2007, the € 300 million bond issued in November
2013, the € 500 million bond issued in March 2014, the € 500
million bond issued in April 2015, the € 500 million bond issued
in September 2015 and the € 750 million bond issued in
September 2016 include a change-of-control clause. This
clause allows the bond investors to request repayment at par
if 50% or more of the DSM shares are controlled by a third
party and if the company is downgraded below investment
grade (< BBB-). In May 2017, Moody's changed the outlook
from negative to stable in relation to their A3 credit rating.
Standard & Poor's confirmed DSM's credit rating in June
2017. At 31 December 2017, there was € 1,746 million in
borrowings outstanding with a remaining term of more than
five years (at 31 December 2016, there was € 2,245 million
with a remaining term of more than five years).
The schedule of repayment of borrowings is as follows:
Borrowings by maturity
 2017 2016
   
2017 - 853
2018 77 6
2019 301 300
2020 - 1
2021 and 2022 504 -
After 2022 1,746 2,245
   
Total 2,628 3,405A breakdown of the borrowings by currency is given in the
following table:
Borrowings by currency
 2017 2016
   
EUR 2,543 3,291
USD 20 38
CNY 16 5
TWD - 50
BRL 45 10
Other 4 11
   
Total 2,628 3,405
On balance, total borrowings decreased by € 777 million
owing to the following changes:
Movements of borrowings
 2017 2016
   
Balance at 1 January 3,405 2,810
   
Loans taken up 16 754
Repayments (818) (4)
Acquisitions 24 8
Changes in debt to credit
institutions 2 (11)
Repayment of commercial paper - (150)
Exchange differences (1) (2)
   
Balance at 31 December 2,628 3,405
The average effective interest rate on the portfolio of
borrowings outstanding in 2017, including hedge instruments
related to these borrowings, amounted to 3.28% (2016:
3.40%).Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  195 www.dsm.comA breakdown of debenture loans is given below:
Debenture loans
 Nom.
amt. 2017 2016
      
EUR loan 5.25% 2007-2017 750 -749
EUR loan 1.75% 2013-2019 300 300 300
EUR loan 2.38% 2014-2024 500 498 498
EUR loan 1.00% 2015-2025 500 497 497
EUR loan 1.38% 2015-2022 500 499 499
EUR loan 0.75% 2016-2026 750 748 747
      
Total   3,300 2,542 3,290
All debenture loans have a fixed interest rate.
The 1.75% EUR bond 2013-2019 of € 
300 million has an
effective interest rate of 1.76%. The 2.375% EUR bond
2014-2024 of € 500 million was pre-hedged by means of
forward starting swaps, resulting in an effective interest rate
for this bond at 3.97% including settlement of pre-hedge.
The 1.375% EUR bond 2015-2022 of € 500 million has an
effective interest rate of 1.40%.
The 1% EUR bond 2015-2025 of € 500 million was pre-
hedged by means of forward starting swaps, resulting in an
effective interest rate for this bond at 3.65% including
settlement of pre-hedge.
The 0.75% EUR bond 2016-2026 of € 750 million was pre-
hedged by means of a collar resulting in an effective interest
rate for this bond amounts at 1.08% including settlement of
pre-hedge.
A breakdown of private loans is given below:
Private loans
 2017 2016
     
TWD loan floating
(1 month)2013-2018 - 34
CNY loan fixed 2018-2019 12  
Other loans 1 10
     
Total   13 44
DSM's policy regarding financial-risk management is
described in Note 23.20 Other non-current liabilities
 2017 2016
   
Investment grants 40 41
Deferred items 15 20
Drawing rights 69 68
Other non-current liabilities 64 29
   
Total 188 158
The increase in the non-current liabilities relates to earn-out
agreements regarding the acquisition of Sunshine and Amyris
Brasil and miscellaneous non-current liabilities regarding the
acquisition of Amyris Brasil.
21
Current liabilities
 2017 2016
   
Trade payables   
Received in advance 4 6
Trade accounts payable 1,377 1,276
Notes and cheques due 3 5
Owing to associates and joint
ventures 68 89
   
Total Trade payables 1,452 1,376
   
Income tax payable 51 56
   
Other current liabilities   
Other taxes and social security
contributions 51 51
Interest 18 26
Pensions 10 4
Investment creditors 133 100
Employee-related liabilities 277 278
Payables associates and joint
ventures relating to cash facility 19 62
Other liabilities 28 18
Deferred items - 1
   
Total Other current liabilities 536 540
   
Total current liabilities 2,039 1,972
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  196 www.dsm.com22 Contingent liabilities and other financial obligations
The contingent liabilities and other financial obligations in the
following table are not recognized in the balance sheet.
 2017 2016
   
Operating leases and rents 245 227
Guarantee obligations on behalf
of associates and third parties 113 117
Outstanding orders for projects
under construction 12 31
Other 17 4
   
Total 387 379
Guarantee obligations are principally related to VAT and duties
on the one hand and to financing obligations of associated
companies on the other. Guarantee obligations will only lead
to cash outflow when called upon. At year-end, no obligations
had been called upon. Most of the outstanding orders for
projects under construction will be completed in 2018.
Property, plant and equipment under operating leases
primarily concerns cars, catalysts, buildings and various
equipment items.
The commitments for operating leases and rents are spread
as follows:
Operating leases and rents
 2017 20161
   
2017 - 46
2018 66 36
2019 42 29
2020 30 21
2021 20 16
2022 18 15
After 2022 69 64
   
Total 245 227
12016 figures have been restated for comparison reasons.
Litigation
DSM has a process in place to monitor legal claims periodically
and systematically.
DSM is involved in several legal proceedings, most of which
are related to the ordinary course of business. DSM does not
expect these proceedings to result in liabilities that have a
material effect on the company's financial position. In caseswhere it is probable that the outcome of the proceedings will
be unfavorable, and the financial outcome can be measured
reliably, a provision has been recognized in the financial
statements and disclosed in Note 18 'Provisions'.
In 2015 an award was issued against DSM Sinochem
Pharmaceuticals India Private Ltd. (DSP India) in a protracted
arbitration case in India going back to 2004 involving a joint
venture that DSP India had formed with Hindustan Antibiotics
Ltd., which suspended its operations in 2003. DSP India is
covered by an indemnity from Koninklijke DSM N.V. for this
case. In 2015 DSP India made an application with the Civil
Court in Pune (India) to set aside the arbitral award. The award
amounts to approximately € 
18 million (excluding interest of
12% per annum). At the end of 2017, the application
proceedings were still pending. DSM has always viewed this
case as unfounded and is of the opinion that the likelihood of
the award being ultimately set aside is high. Therefore no
liability is recognized in respect of this case.
23 Financial instruments and risks
Policies on financial risks
General
The main financial risks faced by DSM relate to liquidity risk,
market risk (comprising interest rate risk, currency risk and
price risk) and credit risk. DSM's financial policy is aimed at
minimizing the effects of fluctuations in currency-exchange
and interest rates on its results in the short term and following
market rates in the long term. DSM uses financial derivatives
to manage financial risks relating to business operations and
does not enter into speculative derivative positions. An
important element of DSM’s financial policy and capital
management is the allocation of cash flow. DSM primarily
allocates cash flow to investments aimed at strengthening its
business positions and securing the dividend payment to its
shareholders. Remaining cash flow is further used for
acquisitions and partnerships that strengthen DSM’s
competences and market positions. This is discussed more
extensively in Financial and Reporting Policies of the Report
by the Managing Board, see page 98. The net debt to equity
ratio (gearing) is disclosed as part of Note 25.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the financial risk due to uncertain development
of liquidity. An entity may not get access to sufficient liquidity
if its credit rating falls, when it experiences sudden unexpected
cash outflows or an unexpected drop in cash inflows, or some
other event causes counterparties to avoid trading with or
lending to the institution. A company is also exposed to
liquidity risk if financial markets on which it depends are subject
to loss of liquidity.
The primary objective of liquidity management is to optimize
the corporate cash position, among other things, by securingConsolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  197 www.dsm.comavailability of sufficient liquidity for execution of payments by
DSM entities, at the right time and the right place.
DSM has two committed credit facilities: one facility of € 
500
million issued in 2011 and maturing in September 2018 and
one facility issued in 2013 of € 500 million and maturing in
March 2020. Together, the facilities amount to a total of
€ 1,000 million (2016: € 1,000 million). The agreements for the
committed credit facilities have neither financial covenants nor
material adverse changes clauses. At year-end 2017, no loans
had been taken up under the committed credit facilities.
Furthermore, DSM has a commercial paper program
amounting to € 1,500 million (2016: € 1,500 million). The
company will use the commercial paper program to a total of
not more than € 1,000 million (2016: € 1,000 million). 
At 31 December 2017, € 0 million had been issued ascommercial paper (2016: € 0 million). DSM has no derivative
contracts to manage currency risk or interest rate risk
outstanding under which margin calls by the counterparty
would be permitted.
Floating-rate and fixed-rate borrowings and monetary liabilities
analyzed by maturity are summarized in the following table.
Borrowings excluding credit institutions are shown after taking
into account related interest rate derivatives in designated
hedging relationships. DSM manages financial liabilities and
related derivative contracts on the basis of the remaining
contractual maturities of these instruments. The remaining
maturities presented in the following table provide an overview
of the timing of the cash flows related to these instruments.
Financial assets are not linked to financial liabilities in order to
meet cash outflows on these liabilities.
Borrowings and monetary liabilities by maturity
 Fixed-rate
borrowingsFloating-
rate
borrowingsMonetary
liabilitiesGuarantees Subtotal Interest
paymentsCash at
redemption1Total cash
out
2016         
Within 1 year 756 30 2,039 - 2,825 74 6 2,905
Within 1 to 2 years - 6 3 - 9 35 5 49
Within 2 to 3 years 300 - 4 - 304 35 4 343
Within 3 to 4 years - - 14 - 14 29 4 47
Within 4 to 5 years 1 - 2 - 3 29 3 35
After 5 years 2,245 - 45 117 2,407 91225 2,523
         
Total 3,302 36 2,107 117 5,562 293 47 5,902
         
         
2017         
Within 1 year 8 - 2,108 - 2,116 35 2 2,153
Within 1 to 2 years 301 - 46 - 347 35 8 390
Within 2 to 3 years - - 25 - 25 29 10 64
Within 3 to 4 years 5 - 9 - 14 29 5 48
Within 4 to 5 years 499 - 4 - 503 29 5 537
After 5 years 1,746 - 49 113 1,908 61216 1,985
         
Total 2,559 - 2,241 113 4,913 218 46 5,177
1Difference between nominal redemption and amortized costs.
2Cumulative interest payments in remaining years.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  198 www.dsm.comThe exposure of the financial derivatives to liquidity risk is as follows. The amounts are gross and undiscounted.
The table contains the cash flows from derivatives with positive fair values and from derivatives with negative fair values to have a
complete overview of the financial derivatives related cash flows.
Financial derivatives cash flow
 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Total
2016        
Inflow 2,143 42 58 42 12 - 2,297
Outflow (2,337) (43) (66) (45) (12) - (2,503)
        
2017        
Inflow - 2,655 63 42 38 21 2,819
Outflow - (2,675) (72) (45) (41) (21) (2,854)
Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that adverse movements of interest rates lead to high costs on interest-bearing debt or assets, which
negatively impact the company's capability to honor its commitments. DSM's interest rate risk policy is aimed at minimizing the
interest rate risks associated with the financing of the company and thus at the same time optimizing the net interest costs. This
policy translates into a certain desired profile of fixed-interest and floating-interest positions, including cash and cash equivalents,
with the floating-interest position not exceeding 60% of net debt.
At 31 December 2017, € 
0 million of debt carried a floating rate interest (2016: € 36 million).
At 31 December 2017, DSM had no outstanding fixed-floating interest rate swaps (end of 2016 none).
The following analysis of the sensitivity of borrowings, assets and related financial derivatives to interest rate movements assumes
an instantaneous 1% change in interest rates for all currencies and maturities from their level on 31 December 2017, with all other
variables held constant. A 1% reduction in interest rates would result in a € 18 million pre-tax loss in the income statement and
equity on the basis of the composition of financial instruments on 31 December 2017, as floating-rate borrowings are more than
compensated for by floating-rate assets (mainly cash). The opposite applies in the case of a 1% increase in interest rates. The
sensitivity of financial instruments on 31 December 2017 to changes in interest rates is set out in the following table:
Sensitivity to change in interest rate
 2017 2016
 Carrying
amountSensitivity of financial
income and expense
to change in interest of:Carrying
amountSensitivity of financial 
income and expense
to change in interest of:
  +1% (1%)  +1% (1%)
       
Loans to associates and joint ventures 193 - - 253 - -
Current investments 954 10 (10) 944 9 (9)
Cash and cash equivalents 899 9 (9) 604 6 (6)
Short-term borrowings (77) (1) 1 (853) (1) 1
Long-term borrowings (2,551) - - (2,552) - -Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  199 www.dsm.comCurrency risk
Currency risk is the risk that adverse movements of foreign currency rates lead to losses on assets or liabilities in currencies, which
negatively impacts the results of operations and financial condition of the company. It is DSM's policy to hedge 100% of the currency
risks resulting from sales and purchases at the moment of recognition of the receivables and payables. In addition, operating
companies may – under strict conditions – opt for hedging currency risks from firm commitments and forecasted transactions. The
currencies giving rise to these risks are primarily USD, GBP and JPY. The risks arising from currency exposures are regularly
reviewed and hedged when appropriate. DSM uses average-rate currency forward contracts, currency forward contracts, spot
contracts, and average-rate currency options to hedge the exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. At year-end, these
instruments had remaining maturities of less than one year. For the hedging of currency risks from firm commitments and forecasted
transactions cash flow, hedge accounting is applied: valuation effects of hedge obligations are reported as Hedging reserve in Note
16 'Equity'. Hedge accounting is not applied for hedges of recognized trade receivables and trade payables hedged with short-
term derivatives.
To hedge intercompany loans, receivables and payables denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the
subsidiaries, DSM uses currency swaps or forward contracts. Cash flow hedge accounting is applied for instruments related to
some larger internal loans with a total notional amount of € 0 million (2016: € 865 million). At 31 December 2017, the notional amount
of the currency forward contracts was € 
3,525 million (2016: € 2,241 million).
In 2017, DSM hedged USD 570 million (2016: USD 580 million) of its projected net cash flow in USD in 2018, of which USD 189
million against EUR and USD 381 million against CHF by means of average-rate currency forward contracts at an average exchange
rate of USD 1.15 per euro and CHF 0.96 per USD, respectively, for the four quarters of 2018. Each quarter the relevant hedges
for that quarter will be settled and recognized in the income statement. In 2017, DSM also hedged JPY 5,550 million (2016: JPY
5,550 million) of its projected net cash flow in JPY in 2018, of which JPY 4,000 million against CHF and JPY 1,550 million against
EUR by means of average-rate currency forward contracts at an average exchange rate of JPY 114  per Swiss franc and JPY 125
per euro, respectively, for the four quarters of 2018. DSM also continued the hedge of projected GBP cash obligations against
CHF, namely GBP 11 million at an average exchange rate of CHF 1.24 per British pound. These hedges have fixed the exchange
rate for part of the USD and JPY receipts and GBP payments in 2018. Cash flow hedge accounting is applied for these hedges.
As a result of similar hedges concluded in 2016 for the year 2017, € 10 million negative (2016: € 32 million negative) was recognized
in the 2017 operating profit of the segments involved in accordance with the realization of the expected cash flows. There was no
material ineffectiveness in relation to these hedges.
The partial hedging of the currency risk associated with the translation of DSM's CHF denominated investments was continued
for an amount of € 204 million (2016: CHF 370 million). The partial hedging of the currency risk associated with the translation of
DSM's net investment in Patheon (USD) started in March 2017 and was discontinued upon the sale of DSM's share in Patheon
N.V. in August 2017. There was no material ineffectiveness in relation to these hedges.
The following analysis of the sensitivity of net borrowings and derivative financial instruments to currency movements against the
euro assumes a 10% change in all foreign currency rates against the euro from their level on 31 December, with all other variables
held constant. A +10% change indicates a strengthening of the foreign currencies against the euro. A -10% change represents a
weakening of the foreign currencies against the euro.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  200 www.dsm.comSensitivity to change in exchange rate
 2017 2016
 Carrying
amountSensitivity to change in
all exchange rates of:Carrying 
amountSensitivity to change in
all exchange rates of:
  +10% (10%)  +10% (10%)
       
Loans to associates and joint ventures 193 5 (5) 253 6 (6)
Current investments 954 1 (1) 944 34 (34)
Cash and cash equivalents 899 46 (46) 604 42 (42)
Short-term borrowings (77) (8) 8 (853) (10) 10
Long-term borrowings (2,551) (1) 1 (2,552) (1) 1
Interest rate swaps - - - - - -
Currency forward contracts 3 (18) 18 (139) (128) 128
Currency forwards related to net investments in foreign
entities 1 (17) 17 (47) (36) 36
Average-rate forwards used for economic hedging212 (13) 13 (27) (17) 17
Commodity hedging 17 2 (2) - - -
1Fair-value change reported in Translation reserve.
2Fair-value change reported in Hedging reserve.
Sensitivity changes on these positions will generally be recognized in profit or loss or in the translation reserve in equity, with the
exception of the instruments for which cash flow hedge accounting or net-investment hedge accounting is applied. Cash flow
hedge accounting is applied for the average-rate forwards and average-rate currency options used for economic hedging; the fair
value changes of these derivatives are recognized in the Hedging reserve in equity until recognition of the related cash flows. See
also 'Financial derivatives cash flow' on page 199. Net-investment hedge accounting is applied for the cross-currency swaps used
to protect net investments in foreign entities; the fair-value changes of these derivatives are recognized in the Translation reserve
in equity until the net investment is disposed of, to the extent that the changes in fair value are caused by changes in currency-
exchange rates.
With the policies explained above the currency risks of DSM and the impact resulting from the sensitivity of changes in exchange
rates as disclosed above, are covered, with only minimal residual exposures left. These are considered to be not material. With
regard to the forecasted transactions, the hedging takes place in accordance with pre-approved percentages.
Price risk
Financial instruments that are subject to changes in stock exchange prices or indexes are subject to a price risk. At year-end 2017,
price risks related to investments in securities were limited.
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that a (commercial or financial) counterparty may not be able to honor a financial commitment vis-à-vis DSM.
The company manages the credit risk to which it is exposed by applying credit limits per institution and by dealing exclusively with
institutions having a high credit rating.
At the balance sheet date, there were no significant concentrations of credit risks other than some financing relationships with
associates and joint ventures (see Note 10).
With regard to treasury activities (for example cash, cash equivalents and financial derivatives held with banks or financial institutions)
it is ensured that financial transactions are only concluded with counterparties that have at least a Moody's credit rating of A3 for
long-term instruments. At business group level, outstanding receivables are continuously monitored by management. Appropriate
allowances are made for any credit risks that have been identified (as listed in Note 13 'Current receivables'). It is therefore unlikely
that significant losses will arise in relation to receivables that have not been provided for.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amounts of financial assets that are recognized in the balance
sheet, including derivative financial instruments. DSM has International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) agreements inConsolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  201 www.dsm.complace with its financial counterparties that allow for the netting of exposures in case of a default of either party. No significant
agreements or financial instruments were available at the reporting date that would reduce the maximum exposure to credit risk.
Information about financial assets is presented in Note 10 'Associates and joint ventures', Note 11 'Other financial assets', Note
13 'Current receivables', Note 14 'Current investments', Note 15 'Cash and cash equivalents' and Note 23 'Financial instruments
and risks'. Information about impairments is in addition to the notes already presented in Note 2.
DSM's policy is to grant corporate guarantees for credit support of subsidiaries and associates, to get access to credit facilities
which are necessary for their operating working capital needs and which cannot be funded by the corporate cash pools and/or for
bank guarantees needed for local governmental requirements. Information on guarantees is presented in Note 22 'Contingent
liabilities and other financial obligations'.
Fair value of financial instruments
In the following table, the carrying amounts and the estimated fair values of financial instruments are given:
 31 December 2017 31 December 2016
 Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value
Assets     
Other participations 89 89 50 50
Loans to associates and joint ventures 193 215 253 258
Other non-current receivables 177 177 136 136
Current receivables 1,690 1,690 1,653 1,653
Financial derivatives 57 57 40 40
Current investments 954 954 944 944
Cash and cash equivalents 899 899 604 604
     
Liabilities     
Non-current borrowings 2,551 2,649 2,552 2,717
Drawing rights liabilities 64 64 68 68
Current borrowings 77 77 853 886
Financial derivatives 24 24 253 253
Other current liabilities 2,039 2,039 1,972 1,972
The following methods and assumptions were used to determine the fair value of financial instruments: cash, current investments,
current receivables, current borrowings (excluding current portion of long-term instruments) and other current liabilities are stated
at carrying amount, which approximates fair value in view of the short maturity of these instruments. The fair value of financial
derivatives and long-term instruments are based on calculations, quoted market prices or quotes obtained from intermediaries.
The portfolio of derivatives consists of average-rate forward contracts that are valued against average foreign exchange forward
rates obtained from Bloomberg and other derivatives that are valued using a discounted cash flow model, applicable market yield
curves and foreign exchange spot rates. All inputs for the fair value calculations represent observable market data that are obtained
from external sources that are deemed to be independent and reliable.
DSM uses the following hierarchy for determining the fair value of financial instruments measured at fair value:
-
Level 1: quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
- Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs that have a significant effect on the fair value are observable, either directly or
indirectly
- Level 3: techniques that use inputs that have a significant effect on the fair value that are not based on observable market data
The financial instruments that have a fair value different from the carrying amounts are classified as level 2 for both 2016 and 2017.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  202 www.dsm.comThe following table shows the carrying amounts of the financial instruments, broken down by type and purpose:
Carrying amounts financial instruments at fair value
 Fair value hierarchy Assets Liabilities Total
     
Bonds Level 1 - (2,663) (2,663)
Other participating interests Level 1 24 - 24
     
Currency swaps related to investments Level 2 - (47) (47)
Currency swaps and forward contracts Level 2 40 (206) (166)
     
Earn-out receivables / payables Level 3 108 (17) 91
Other participating interests Level 3 26 - 26
     
Balance at 31 December 2016  198 (2,933) (2,735)
     
Bonds Level 1 - (2,649) (2,649)
Other participating interests Level 1 47 - 47
     
Currency forward contracts related to investments Level 2 1 - 1
Currency swaps and forward contracts Level 2 39 (24) 15
Commodity derivatives Level 2 17 - 17
     
Earn-out receivables / payables Level 3 85 (39) 46
Other participating interests Level 3 42 - 42
     
Balance at 31 December 2017  231 (2,712) (2,481)
During the year there were no transfers between individual levels of the fair value hierarchy.
24
Post-employment benefits
The group operates a number of defined benefit plans and defined contribution plans throughout the world, the assets of which
are generally held in separately administered funds. The pension plans are generally funded by payments from employees and from
the relevant group companies. The group also provides certain additional healthcare benefits to retired employees in the US.
Post-employment benefits relate to obligations that will be settled in the future and require assumptions to project benefit
obligations. Post-employment benefit accounting is intended to reflect the recognition of post-employment benefits over the
employee's approximate service period, based on the terms of the plans and the investment and funding. The accounting requires
management to make assumptions regarding variables such as discount rate, future salary increases, life expectancy, and future
healthcare costs. Management consults with external actuaries regarding these assumptions at least annually for significant plans.
Changes in these key assumptions can have a significant impact on the projected defined benefit obligations, funding requirements
and periodic costs incurred.Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  203 www.dsm.comThe charges for pension costs recognized in the income
statement (Note 5) relate to the following:
Pension costs
 2017 2016
   
Defined benefit plans:   
Pension costs included in
employee benefit costs:   
-Current service costs pension
plans 28 35
- Other post-employment
benefits 2 1
   
Defined contribution plans 82 95
Total pension costs included
in employee benefits costs 112 131
   
- Pension costs included in
Other operating income (20)1(16)1
   
Total in operating profit 92 115
Pension costs included in
financial income and expense 8 10
Pension costs included in APM
adjustments - 1
   
Total 100 126
   
Of which:   
- Defined contribution plans 82 95
- Defined benefit plans 18 31
1Curtailment gains because of plan amendments in the UK, US and Switzerland.
For 2018, costs for the defined benefit plans relating to
pensions are expected to be € 
33 million (2017: € 30 million).
Changes in Employee benefits liabilities recognized in the
balance sheet are shown in the following overview:Employee benefits net liabilities
 2017 2016
   
Balance at 1 January 530 540
   
Changes:   
- Balance of actuarial 
(gains)/losses (70) 8
- Employee benefits costs 18 32
- Contributions by employer (70) (49)
- Exchange differences (14) (1)
   
Total changes (136) (10)
   
Balance at 31 December 394 530
The Employee net benefits liabilities of € 394 million
(2016: € 
530 million) consist of € 374 million related to
pensions (2016: € 509 million), € 6 million related to healthcare
and other costs (2016: € 7 million) and € 14 million related to
other post-employment benefits (2016: € 14 million).
Pensions
The DSM group companies have various pension plans, which
are geared to the local regulations and practices in the
countries in which they operate. As these plans are designed
to comply with the statutory framework, tax legislation, local
customs and economic situation of the countries concerned,
it follows that the nature of the plans varies from country to
country. The plans are based on local legal and contractual
obligations.
DSM's current policy is to offer defined contribution retirement
benefit plans to new employees wherever possible. However,
DSM still has a (small) number of defined benefit pension and
healthcare schemes from the past. Generally, these schemes
have been funded through external trusts or foundations,
where DSM faces the potential risk of funding shortfalls. The
most significant defined benefit schemes are:
- Pension Plan at DSM Nutritional Products AG in
Switzerland (DNP AG);
- DSM UK Pension Scheme in the UK;
- Consolidated Pension Plan from DSM Services USA in the
US; and
- Pension Plan at DSM Nutritional Products GmbH in
Germany (DNP GmbH).
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  204 www.dsm.comFor each plan, the following characteristics are relevant:
DNP AG Pension Plan in Switzerland
The DNP AG Pension Plan is a typical Swiss Cash Balance
plan. For accounting purposes, this plan is qualified as a
defined benefit plan. It is a contribution based-plan. There is
no promise of indexation for on-going pensions. The Swiss
state minimal requirements for occupational benefit plans have
however to be respected; the Minimum Guaranteed Interest
Return on the cash balance accounts for 2017 was 1.0%
(2016: 1.25%) for the mandatory portion (BVG/LPP). There is
also a minimal conversion rate applicable. The weighted
average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 12.9 years
(2016: 13.0) which could be seen as an indication of the
maturity profile of the scheme.
The pension plan is managed and controlled by a DSM
company pension fund. The Board of Trustees consists of
representatives of the employer and the employees who have
an independent role. In 2017, the Trustees implemented a
reduction of the conversion rate for the accounts related to the
higher income (in the first quarter) and the accounts related to
the lower income (in the fourth quarter). This has reduced the
pension liabilities in Switzerland. The plan assets are
collectively invested (no individual investment choice). In 2016,
an Asset Liability Management (ALM) study was performed
which has led to an adjustment of the investment strategy. The
current (estimated) funding level, based on local standards, is
119% (2016: 113%), which is above the legally required
minimum funding level. 
DSM UK Pension Scheme
The DSM UK Pension Scheme was closed as of 30
September 2016 for all pension accruals. An unconditional
indexation policy is applicable for the vested pension rights.
The pension plan is managed and controlled by a DSM
company pension fund. The Board of Trustees consists of
representatives of the employer and the employees who have
an independent role. In 2017, the 2015 valuation was finalized
resulting in the continuation of the annual recovery contribution
(GBP 1 million) and the company guarantee of GBP 14 million.
A strategic workgroup was established to redesign the long-
term de-risking strategy for the DSM UK Pension Scheme with
the objective to align the company's intentions and the
Trustees responsibility with respect to this plan. The weighted
average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 20.7 years
(2016: 22.1) which could be seen as an indication of the
maturity profile of the scheme. In 2017, the Trustees and DSM
jointly decided to adjust the benefit indexation in the historic
APC sections of the scheme. This decision has reduced the
pension liability in the UK. The current funding level, based on
local standards, is estimated at 103% (2016: 94%).Consolidated Plan in the US
The Consolidated Plan in the US has been closed to new
entrants since 2014. As of 31 December 2016, the plan was
closed for pension accrual of the non-unionized employees.
New accrual is only applicable for a small group of unionized
employees. There is no indexation applicable for the vested
pension rights. In 2017, DSM provided a one-time funding of
USD 22 million into the scheme to reduce the deficit and avoid
the payment of the variable part of PBGC (guarantee)
contributions. The pension plan is managed and controlled by
a DSM company pension fund. The Board of Trustees consists
of representatives of the employer and the employees who
have an independent role. In 2017, the Trustees provided a
lump sum window to terminated vested participants which has
resulted in a reduction of pension liabilities.
Since 2011, there has been a separate investment strategy for
the closed plan (liability related to divested businesses/
companies) and the open plan (liability related to the current
businesses/companies). The investment strategy for the
closed plan has a very low risk profile, whereas the investment
strategy for the open plan anticipates on expected future
returns on equity. The internal funding policy of this plan is
based on IFRS valuation. This implies a stricter funding policy
than the minimum requirements on local funding. The current
IFRS funding level is 97% (2016: 87%), whereas the funding
level on local standards (Pension Protection Act) is estimated
at 129% (2016: 114%). The minimum required funding level
on local standards is 80% on the basis of this Act.
DNP GmbH Pension Plan in Germany
The DNP GmbH Pension Plan in Germany has been closed to
new entrants as of 31 December 2008. Accrual is still
applicable for employees who have been participating in the
plan since 2008. The pension plan is a final pay pension plan
(averaged over the last 12 months prior to retirement) and
service-related benefit. The liability is on the balance sheet of
DNP GmbH. No assets are allocated to this liability. All
reimbursements will be paid out by the local company. The
weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is
15.6 years (2016: 15.6) which could be seen as an indication
of the maturity profile of the scheme.
The most important unfunded plans are in Germany for which
the associated liability amounts € 
297 million (2016:
€ 312 million). In 2017, DSM agreed on a lump sum payment
of € 7 million to a group of pensioners to settle their pension
liability.Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  205 www.dsm.comThe changes in the present value of the defined benefit
obligations and in the fair value of plan assets of the major
plans are listed below:
Present value of defined benefit obligations
 2017 2016
   
Balance at 1 January 1,806 1,745
   
Changes:   
- Service costs 28 35
- Interest costs 28 32
- Contributions 13 14
- Actuarial (gains)/losses 45 65
- Past service costs (17) -
- Curtailments/termination
benefits 1 (15)
- Exchange differences (129) (11)
- Settlements (25) -
- Benefits paid (75) (59)
   
Balance at 31 December 1,675 1,806
Fair value of plan assets
 2017 2016
   
Balance at 1 January 1,298 1,224
   
Changes:   
-Interest income on plan assets 20 23
- Actuarial gains/(losses) 115 60
   
Actual return on plan assets 135 83
- Contributions by employer 49 33
- Contributions by employees 13 14
- Disbursement (62) (46)
- Exchange differences (117) (10)
- Settlements (15) -
   
Balance at 31 December 1,301 1,298
The fair value of the plan asset consists of 99% of quoted
assets (2016: 99%).The actuarial gains/losses as included in the previous tables
can be specified as follows:
Remeasurement effects as included in Other
comprehensive income
 2017 2016
   
Defined benefit obligation major
pension plans   
Actuarial (gain)/loss due to
experience 24 (15)
Actuarial (gain)/loss due to
demographic assumption (7) (16)
Actuarial (gain)/loss due to
financial assumption changes 28 96
 45 65
   
Plan assets major pension plans   
Change in irrecoverable surplus
other than interest (1) (1)
Return on plan assets (greater)/
less than discount rate 116 60
 115 59
   
Actuarial (gain)/loss major
plans (70) 6
   
Actuarial (gain)/loss other plans (13) 2
   
Total actuarial (gain)/loss (83) 8
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  206 www.dsm.comThe amounts recognized of these plans in the balance sheet
are as follows:
Net assets/liabilities
 2017 2016
   
Major plans:   
Present value of funded
obligations (1,370) (1,484)
Fair value of plan assets 1,301 1,298
   
 (69) (186)
Present value of unfunded
obligations (305) (322)
   
Funded status (374) (508)
Effect of asset ceiling - (1)
   
Net liabilities/assets major plans (374) (509)
   
Net liabilities/assets other plans (20) (21)
   
Total net liabilities/assets (394) (530)
   
Of which:   
- Liabilities (Employee benefits
liabilities) (395) (530)
- Assets (Prepaid pension
costs) 1 -In 2018, DSM is expected to contribute € 26 million (actual
2017: € 
49 million) to its major defined benefit plans.
The major categories of pension-plan assets as a percentage
of total plan assets are as follows:
Pension-plan assets by category
 2017 2016
   
Bonds 43% 53%
Equities 35% 32%
Property 18% 12%
Other 4% 3%
The pension-plan assets include neither ordinary DSM shares
nor property occupied by DSM.
The main actuarial assumptions for the year (weighted
averages) are:
Actuarial assumptions for major plans outside the
Netherlands
 2017 2016
   
Discount rate 1.49% 1.63%
Price inflation 1.71% 1.57%
Salary increase 2.29% 2.08%
Pension increase 0.87-2.10% 0.88-2.15%
Year-end amounts for the current and previous periods are as follows:
Major defined benefit plans per year
 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013
      
Defined benefit obligations (1,675) (1,806) (1,745) (1,564) (1,316)
Plan assets 1,301 1,297 1,224 1,086 958
      
Funded status of asset/(liability) (374) (509) (521) (478) (358)
      
Experience adjustments on plan assets, gain/(loss) 115 60 (22) 61 7
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities, gain/(loss) (24) 15 (39) (1) 16
Gain/(loss) on liabilities due to changes in assumptions (21) (80) (4) (222) (25)Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  207 www.dsm.comSensitivities of significant actuarial assumptions
The discount rate, the future increase in wages and salaries and the pension increase rate were identified as significant actuarial
assumptions. The following impacts on the defined benefit obligation are to be expected:
-
A 0.25% increase/decrease in the discount rate would lead to a decrease/increase of 3.6% (2016: 3.6%) in the defined benefit
obligation;
-A 0.25% increase/decrease in the expected increase in salaries/wages would lead to an increase/decrease of 0.3% (2016: 0.4%)
in the defined benefit obligation; and
- A 0.25% increase/decrease in the expected rate of pension increase would lead to an increase/decrease of less than 1.1%
(2016:1.0%) in the defined benefit obligation.
The sensitivity analysis is based on realistically possible changes as of the end of the reporting year. Each change in a significant
actuarial assumption was analyzed separately as part of the test. Interdependencies were not taken into account.
Healthcare and other costs
In some countries, particularly in the US, group companies provide retired employees and their surviving dependents with post-
employment benefits other than pensions, mainly allowances for healthcare expenses and life-insurance premiums. Some of these
are unfunded; in these cases, approved expense claims are reimbursed out of the financial resources of the group companies
concerned. These plans are not sufficiently material to warrant the individual disclosures required by IAS 19.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  208 www.dsm.com25 Net debt
The development of the components of net debt is as follows:
 Cash and
cash
equivalentsCurrent
investmentsNon-current
borrowingsCurrent
borrowingsCredit
institutionsDerivatives Total
        
Balance at 1 January 2016 665 9 (2,557) (22) (231) (185) (2,321)
        
Change from operating activities 1,018 - - - - 8 1,026
Change from investing activities (1,194) 935 - (7) - - (266)
        
Reclassification from non-current to current - - 759 (759) - - -
Transfers 584 - (748) 3 161 - -
Dividend (190) - - - - - (190)
Interest (151) - - - - 27 (124)
Proceeds from reissued shares 137 - - - - - 137
Repurchase of shares (273) - - - - - (273)
Derivatives - - - - - (65) (65)
Other 6 - (5) - - - 1
Change from financing activities 113 - 6 (756) 161 (38) (514)
        
Exchange differences 2 - (1) (1) 3 2 5
        
Total changes (61) 935 5 (764) 164 (28) 251
        
Balance at 31 December 2016 604 944 (2,552) (786) (67) (213) (2,070)
        
Change from operating activities 996 (20) (2) - - 45 1,019
Change from investing activities 689 30 (4) (20) - 21 716
        
Reclassification from non-current to current - - 12 (12) - - -
Transfers (794) - (6) 810 (10) - -
Dividend (200) - - - - - (200)
Interest (135) - - - - - (135)
Proceeds from reissued shares 107 - - - - - 107
Repurchase of shares (297) - - - - - (297)
Derivatives (28) - - - - 180 152
Other 3 - - - - - 3
Change from financing activities (1,344) - 6 798 (10) 180 (370)
        
Exchange differences (46) - 1 - 8 - (37)
        
Total changes 295 10 1 778 (2) 246 1,328
        
Balance at 31 December 2017 899 954 (2,551) (8) (69) 33 (742)
In 2017, the gearing (net debt / equity plus net debt) is 9.5% (in 2016: 25.1%).Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  209 www.dsm.com26 Notes to the cash flow statement
The cash flow statement provides an explanation of the changes in cash and cash equivalents. It is prepared on the basis of a
comparison of the balance sheets at 1 January and 31 December. Changes that do not involve cash flows, such as changes in
exchange rates, amortization, depreciation, impairment losses and transfers to other balance sheet items, are eliminated.
Changes in working capital due to the acquisition or disposal of consolidated companies are included under Investing activities.
Most of the changes in the cash flow statement can be traced back to the detailed statements of changes for the balance sheet
items concerned. For those balance sheet items for which no detailed statement of changes is included, the table below shows
the link between the change according to the balance sheet and the change according to the cash flow statement:
Change in operating working capital
 2017 2016
Operating working capital   
   
Balance at 1 January 1,928 1,808
Balance at 31 December 1,938 1,928
Balance sheet change 10 120
   
Adjustments:   
- Exchange differences 200 (78)
- Changes in consolidation (including acquisitions and disposals) (10) (4)
- Reclassification from/to held for sale - (3)
- Transfers/non-cash value adjustments (5) 23
Total change in operating working capital according to the cash flow statement 195 58
In 2017, the operating working capital before reclassification to held for sale was € 1,938 million (2016: € 1,928 million), which
amounts to 22.3% of annualized fourth quarter net sales (2016: 23.9%). The increase in operating working capital as a result of
9% organic growth was largely compensated by the weakening of mainly the USD and CHF.
27
Share-based compensation
Under the DSM Stock Incentive Plan, management share units (performance-related and non-performance-related) and (until 2016)
stock options (performance-based and non-performance-based) or Share Appreciation Rights (SARs; until 2011) are, respectively
have been granted to senior management. The grant date is the first day on which the DSM stock is quoted ex-dividend following
the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders.
Since 2011, SARs are no longer used as share-based compensation. As of 2017, the stock options for senior management have
been replaced by management share units. These share units vest after three years partially based upon the realization of predefined
performance measures.
Stock options and SARs have a term of eight years and are subject to a vesting period of three years. Management share units
have a term of three years. After this three-year period, one third of the management share units, stock options and SARs (non-
performance-related) will vest and two thirds of the management share units, stock options and SARs that are related to
performance will vest in whole, in part, or not at all. Options become exercisable upon vesting. The performance measurement of
the 2017 series of the management share units is based on four equally weighted factors: Relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR)
performance versus a peer group, Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) growth, Energy Efficiency Improvement (EEI), and
Greenhouse-gas Emissions (GHGE) reduction. Stock options related to performance as granted in 2016 are subject to the same
performance criteria (while vesting of performance-related stock options as granted in 2015 is subject to TSR only). Non-vested
management share units, stock options and SARs will be forfeited. If employment is terminated prior to the vesting date, specific
rules regarding vesting and forfeitures apply. The exercise of stock incentives is regulated.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  210 www.dsm.comFor members of the Managing Board specifically, LTI performance shares have been granted since 2010 (no longer stock options)
and for other Executive Committee members since 2016. LTI performance shares vest after three years upon the realization of
predefined performance measures.
For the LTI performance shares of the Managing Board please refer to Note 13 'Remuneration of Managing Board and Supervisory
Board' to the Financial statements of the parent company.
All management share units, stock options and LTI performance shares are settled by physical delivery of DSM shares, while SARs
are settled in cash.
Overview of stock options and Share Appreciation Rights for management
Year of issue Outstanding at
31 Dec. 2016In 2017 Outstanding at
31 Dec. 2017Fair value on
grant date (€ 
)Exercise price
(€ 
)Expiry date
Granted Exercised Average
price (€ 
)Forfeited/
expired
          
2009 43,400 - (43,400) 61.03 - - 2.83 21.10 27 Mar. 2017
2010 224,500 - (163,750) 67.85 - 60,750 6.07 33.10 6 Apr. 2018
2011 411,926 - (214,563) 67.78 (2,500) 194,863 9.60 46.20 2 May 2019
2012 368,000 - (166,100) 66.75 (3,750) 198,150 6.88 40.90 15 May 2020
2013 615,588 - (242,438) 67.65 (6,250) 366,900 9.23 48.91 7 May 2021
20141,22,200,988 - (756,853) 69.63 (728,012)3716,123 10.66 52.00 9 May 2022
201512,578,875 - (152,050) 68.38 (197,525)32,229,300 9.89 50.98 5 May 2023
201612,744,475 - (52,800) 68.30 (246,525)32,445,150 9.36 52.57 3 May 2024
          
2017 Total 9,187,752 - (1,791,954) 68.36 (1,184,562) 6,211,236    
Of which
vested 1,983,364     1,711,536    
          
 at 31 Dec.
2015     at 31 Dec.
2016    
2016 Total 11,018,101 2,815,225 (2,340,174) 56.54 (2,305,400) 9,187,752    
Of which
vested 3,188,150     1,983,364    
1Stock options will partly vest, and may therefore be immediately exercised, upon termination of employment in connection with divestments, retirement or early retirement. The
remaining term to exercise stock options or SARs after their vesting as a result of divestments, retirement or early retirement is limited to three years (the remaining term to exercise
in the case of regular vesting is five years).
2Based on TSR performance, the stock incentives tied to performance granted in 2014 vested only partially; the remaining part has been forfeited.
3Number of forfeited options: 728,012 (2014), 197,525 (2015), and 246,525 (2016).
Overview of management share units
Year of issue Outstanding at 31
Dec. 2016In 2017 Outstanding at 31
Dec. 2017Share price at date
of grant (€ 
)Expiry date
Granted Vested Forfeited/
expired
        
2017 - 449,312 (4,206) (4,963) 440,143 67.33 5 May 2020
        
2017 Total - 449,312 (4,206) (4,963) 440,143   
        
 at 31 Dec. 2015    at 31 Dec. 2016   
2016 Total - - - - -   Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  211 www.dsm.comAdditionally, DSM grants certain members of senior management shares based on EBITDA and ROCE performance targets set
for 2016 and 2017. Settlement in shares takes place after this two-year period. If employment is terminated prior to the settlement
date, specific rules regarding vesting and forfeitures apply. Under this plan a total of 130,778 shares were granted of which at the
end of 2017 84,683 shares vested and 15,344 were forfeited. The fair value of these shares is determined based on the average
quoted market price in the first quarter of 2016.
Furthermore, certain employees in the Netherlands are entitled to employee stock options that are granted on the first day on which
the DSM stock is quoted ex-dividend following the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. The opening price of the DSM stock
on that day is the exercise price of the stock options. Employee stock options can immediately be exercised and have a term of
five years.
Overview of stock options for employees
Year of issue Outstanding at
31 Dec. 2016In 2017 Outstanding at
31 Dec. 2017Fair value on
grant date (€ 
)Exercise price
(€ 
)Exercise
period until Granted Exercised Average
price (€ 
)Forfeited/
expired
          
2012 58,045 - (46,615) 64.17 (11,430) - 6.79 40.90 May 2017
2013 68,770 - (37,535) 68.04 (1,600) 29,635 6.51 48.91 May 2018
2014 116,550 - (51,100) 67.59 (8,375) 57,075 5.68 52.00 May 2019
2015 50,250 - (21,660) 67.59 (2,305) 26,285 4.50 50.98 May 2020
2016 257,615 - (113,290) 67.50 (5,595) 138,730 4.38 52.57 May 2021
2017 - 433,505 (111,700) 76.52 (19,900) 301,905 6.14 67.33 May 2022
          
2017 Total 551,230 433,505 (381,900) 69.80 (49,205) 553,630    
          
2016 Total 883,155 561,135 (851,940) 57.75 (41,120) 551,230    
Measurement of fair value
The costs of LTI performance shares and management share units are measured by reference to the fair value of the DSM share
at the date on which the performance shares and share units are granted, ex dividend as the performance shares and share units
do not accumulate dividend during the three-year vesting period.
The costs of option plans are measured by reference to the fair value of the options at the date on which the options are granted.
The fair value is determined using the Black-Scholes model, taking into account market conditions linked to the price of the DSM
share. Stock-price volatility is determined on the basis of historical volatilities of the DSM share price measured each month over
a period equal to the expected option life. The costs of these options are recognized in the income statement (Employee benefits
costs).
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  212 www.dsm.comPlan assumptions
The following assumptions were used to determine the fair
value at grant date:
Plan assumptions
 2017 2016
Management share units (2017)
and options (2016)   
Risk-free rate (0.56%) (0.23%)
Expected share unit / option life
in years 3 6
Nominal share unit / option life in
years 3 8
Share price 67.33 52.57
Exercise price - 52.57
Volatility - 29.5%
Expected dividend (2017 in € ;
2016 in %) 5.25 3.14%
Fair value of share unit / option
granted 62.08 9.36
   
Employee options   
Risk-free rate (0.56%) (0.48%)
Expected option life in years 2.5 2.5
Nominal option life in years 5 5
Share price 67.33 52.57
Exercise price 67.33 52.57
Volatility 20.5% 20.0%
Expected dividend 2.60% 3.14%
Fair value of option granted 6.14 4.38
An amount of € 23 million is included in the costs for wages
and salaries for share-based compensation (2016:
€ 
24 million). The following table specifies the share-based
compensation:
Share-based compensation
 2017 2016
   
Stock options and management
shares 19 18
Share appreciation rights - 1
Performance shares 4 5
   
Total expense 23 24
28 Related parties
Koninklijke DSM N.V. is the group holding company that is
listed on the Euronext Amsterdam stock exchange. The
financial statements of the company are included in the
chapter 'Parent company financial statements'.In the ordinary course of business, DSM buys and sells goods
and services from/to various related parties in which DSM has
significant influence. Transactions are conducted under terms
and conditions that are equivalent to those that apply to arm's
length transactions.
Transactions and relationships with related parties are
reported in the table below.
Transactions with related parties
 Joint ventures Associates
 2017 2016 2017 2016
Continuing
operations     
Sales to 22 27 24 43
Purchases from 6 8 381 338
Loans to 12 62 181 191
Receivables from 26 41 122 144
Payables to 24 62 141 163
Interest from 4 4 14 13
DSM may issue guarantees as credit enhancement of
associates to acquire bank facilities for these associates. 
DSM has provided guarantees to third parties for debts of
associates for an amount of € 
64 million (2016: € 75 million).
Other related-parties disclosure relates entirely to the key
management of DSM, being represented by the company's
Managing Board, Executive Committee and Supervisory
Board. For further details about the remuneration of the
Managing Board, the Executive Committee and the
Supervisory Board, please refer to Note 13 to the 'Parent
company financial statements'.Consolidated financial statements — Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  213 www.dsm.com29 Service fees paid to external auditors
The service fees recognized in the financial statements 2017 for the service of KPMG amounted to € 
4.9 million
(2016: € 4.8 million). The amounts per service category are shown in the following table.
 Total service fee Of which
 KPMG KPMG KPMG NL KPMG NL
 2017 2016 2017 2016
     
Audit of the group financial statements 4.4 4.1 2.8 2.6
Audit of other (statutory) financial statements 0.410.6 - -
Other assurance services 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1
     
Total assurance services 4.9 4.8 2.9 2.7
1Statutory audits previously carried out by another auditor.
 
30 Events after the balance sheet date
In 2018, DSM will re-evaluate its control assumption over Yantai Andre Pectin, which could result in deconsolidation of the entity.
The re-evaluation is triggered by the recent developments after the refusal of the other shareholders to transfer their shares to DSM
despite an earlier agreement. In 2017, the consolidated sales were € 
47 million and Adjusted EBITDA was € 17 million.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  214 www.dsm.comBalance sheet at 31 December of Koninklijke DSM N.V. before profit appropriation
 
x € million Notes 2017 2016
Assets   
Non-current assets   
Intangible assets 2 433 447
Property, plant and equipment 3 12 15
Financial assets 4 9,640 9,975
Deferred tax assets 5 131 173
 10,216 10,610
Current assets   
Receivables 6 79 98
Financial derivatives 1 -
Cash and cash equivalents 2 -
 82 98
   
Total 10,298 10,708
   
Shareholders' equity and liabilities   
Shareholders' equity 7   
Share capital 338 338
Share premium 489 489
Treasury shares (398) (339)
Other reserves (622) (95)
Retained earnings 5,386 5,058
Profit for the year 1,769 621
 6,962 6,072
Non-current liabilities   
Borrowings 8 2,542 2,541
 2,542 2,541
Current liabilities   
Borrowings 8 - 749
Financial derivatives - 47
Other current liabilities 9 794 1,299
 794 2,095
   
Total 10,298 10,708Parent company financial
statements
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  215 www.dsm.comIncome statement of Koninklijke DSM N.V.
x € million Notes 2017 2016
   
Other income 1 173 205
   
Cost of outsourced work and other external costs (84) (95)
Wages and salaries 11 (72) (78)
Social security and pension charges (8) (12)
Amortization of intangible assets and depreciation of Property, plant and equipment (12) (8)
   
Total operating expenses (176) (193)
   
Operating profit (3) 12
   
Financial income 12 15 16
Financial expense 12 (105) (112)
   
Result before income tax (93) (84)
Income tax 5 18 17
Share of the profit of subsidiaries 4 590 465
   
Result after income tax 515 398
   
Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures 4 18 (9)
Other results related to associates and joint ventures 4 1,236 232
   
Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 1,769 621
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  216 www.dsm.comNotes to the parent company financial statements
1 General
Unless stated otherwise, all amounts are in € million.
The Parent company financial statements are the financial statements of Koninklijke DSM N.V., which have been prepared in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the Netherlands.
The accounting policies used are the same as those used in the consolidated financial statements, in accordance with the provisions
of article 362-8 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. In these separate financial statements, investments in subsidiaries are accounted
for using the net asset value. The balance sheet presentation is aligned with the consolidated financial statements in order to
enhance transparency and facilitate understanding.
The statutory seat of DSM is Het Overloon 1, Heerlen (Netherlands). A list of DSM participations has been filed with the Chamber
of Commerce (Netherlands) and is available from the company upon request, as well as on the company website. DSM is registered
with the Dutch Commercial Register under number 14022069.
Information on the use of financial instruments and on related risks for the group is provided in the 'Notes to the consolidated
financial statements of Royal DSM'.
Other income consists mainly of the charged corporate overhead and services to the group companies.
The company forms a fiscal unity for corporate income tax purposes together with the group companies in the Netherlands. Each
of the companies recognizes the portion of corporate income tax that the relevant company would owe as an independent tax
payer, taking into account the tax liabilities applicable to the company.
  Parent company financial statements — Notes to the parent company financial statements
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  217 www.dsm.com2 Intangible assets
The carrying amount of intangible assets mainly comprises goodwill on the acquisition of NeoResins in 2005 (€ 358 million), Crina
in 2006 (€ 8 million) and Pentapharm in 2007 (€ 33 million). For further information on these assets including the discussion of the
related impairment tests, please refer to Note 8 'Intangible assets' in the 'Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal
DSM'.
 Goodwill Under
constructionOther Total
     
Balance at 1 January 2016     
Cost 403 17 62 482
Amortization and impairment losses - - 32 32
     
Carrying amount 403 17 30 450
     
Change in carrying amount     
- Capital expenditure - 3 - 3
- Put into operation - (16) 16 -
- Amortization - - (6) (6)
     
 - (13) 10 (3)
Balance at 31 December 2016     
Cost 403 4 78 485
Amortization and impairment losses - - 38 38
     
Carrying amount 403 4 40 447
     
Change in carrying amount     
- Capital expenditure - 1 - 1
- Put into operation - (4) 4 -
- Exchange difference (4) - - (4)
- Amortization - - (8) (8)
- Impairment losses - - (3) (3)
     
 (4) (3) (7) (14)
Balance at 31 December 2017     
Cost 399 1 83 483
Amortization and impairment losses - - 50 50
     
Carrying amount 399 1 33 433
3 Property, plant and equipment
This item mainly relates to land and buildings. Capital expenditure in 2017 was € 2 million (2016: € 0 million), while the depreciation
charge in 2017 was € 
1 million (2016: € 1 million). The historical cost of Property, plant and equipment at 31 December 2017 was
€ 61 million (2016: € 62 million); accumulated depreciation amounted to € 49 million (2016: € 47 million).
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  218 www.dsm.com4 Financial assets
 Subsidiaries  Associates and JVs Receivables Total
Share in
equityLoans  Share in
equityLoans
        
Balance at 1 January 2016 8,807 -  482 3 93 9,385
        
Changes:        
- Share in profit 465 -  (9) - - 456
- Dividend received (27) -  (150) - - (177)
- Capital payments 1 -  - - - 1
- Net actuarial gains/(losses) (3) -  - - - (3)
- Change in Fair value reserve 7 -  - - - 7
- Change in Hedging reserve 1 -  - - - 1
- Exchange differences 196 -  9 - 2 207
- Disposals - -  128 - - 128
- Transfers - -   - 31 31
- Others (14) -  (28) (3) (16) (61)
        
Balance at 31 December 2016 9,433 -  432 - 110 9,975
        
Changes:        
- Share in profit 590 -  18 - - 608
- Charged to income statement - -  - - 30 30
- Dividend received (80) -  - - - (80)
- Capital payments 11 -  - - - 11
- Repayments - -  - - (43) (43)
- Net actuarial gains/(losses) 61 -  - - - 61
- Change in Fair value reserve (3) -  - - - (3)
- Change in Hedging reserve 35 -  5 - - 40
- Exchange differences (591) -  (47) - (6) (644)
- Disposals - -  (249) - - (249)
- Transfers (47) -  - - - (47)
- Impairments - -  (20)  - (20)
- Other - -  1  - 1
        
Balance at 31 December 2017 9,409 -  140 - 91 9,640
For movements in Associates and joint ventures see Note 10 to the 'Consolidated financial statements'.
In 2016, transfers within Receivables include the earn-out of Patheon of € 28 million and the divestment settlements of -€ 16 million.
Disposals in 2017 relate to the divestment of DSM's share in Patheon, including the settlement of the earn-out receivable. See
Note 10 to the 'Consolidated financial statements'.
5
Deferred tax assets
This item mainly relates to net operating losses in the Dutch fiscal unity. In 2017, a tax income of € 18 million (2016: € 17 million)
was included and other movements (mainly settlements with group companies) of -€ 60 million (2016: -€ 39 million).Parent company financial statements — Notes to the parent company financial statements
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  219 www.dsm.com6 Receivables
 2017 2016
   
Receivable from subsidiaries 52 83
Other receivables / deferred
items 27 15
   
Total 79 98
7  Shareholders' equity
 2017 2016
   
Balance at 1 January 6,072 5,541
   
Net profit 1,769 621
Exchange differences, net of
income tax (637) 197
Net actuarial gains/(losses) on
defined benefit obligations 74 (9)
Dividend (320) (296)
Repurchase of shares (297) (273)
Proceeds from reissue of
ordinary shares 233 253
Other changes 68 38
   
Balance at 31 December 6,962 6,072
For details see the consolidated statement of changes in
equity (Note 16) on page 161.
Legal reserve
In Shareholders' equity, an amount of -€ 
107 million (2016:
€ 530 million) is included for Translation reserve,
-€ 148 million (2016: -€ 207 million) for Hedging reserve,
€ 5 million (2016: € 8 million) for Fair value reserve and
-€ 182 million (2016: -€ 100 million) for intangible assets
related to product development projects. In addition, a legal
reserve of € 126 million (2016: € 120 million) is recognized for
profits that cannot be distributed and received in the
Netherlands.
Profit appropriation
According to article 32 of the Articles of Association of
Koninklijke DSM N.V. and with the approval of the Supervisory
Board, every year the Managing Board determines the portion
of the net profit to be appropriated to the reserves. For the year
2017, the net profit is € 1,769 million (2016: € 621 million) and
the amount to be appropriated to the reserves has been
established at € 1,438 million (2016: € 311 million). From the
subsequent balance of the net profit of € 331 million (2016: €310 million), dividend is first distributed on the cumulative
preference shares B. At the end of 2017 no cumprefs B were
in issue (2016: no cumprefs B). Subsequently, a 3.26% (2016:
1.759%) dividend is distributed on the cumulative preference
shares A, based on a share price of € 
5.29 (2016: € 5.29) per
cumulative preference share A. For 2017, this distribution
amounts to € 0.17 (2016: € 0.09) per share, which is
€ 8 million in total. An interim dividend of € 0.06 per cumulative
preference share A having been paid in August 2017, the final
dividend will then amount to € 0.11 per cumulative preference
share A.
The profit remaining after distribution of these dividends on the
cumulative preference shares A of € 1,761 million (2016: € 617
million) will be put at the disposal of the Annual General
Meeting of Shareholders in accordance with the provisions of
Article 32, section 5 of the Articles of Association.
The Managing Board proposes a dividend on ordinary shares
outstanding for the year 2017 of € 1.85 (2016: € 1.75) per
share. With an interim dividend of € 0.58 (2016: € 0.55) per
ordinary share having been paid in August 2017, the final
dividend would then amount to € 1.27 (2016: € 1.20) per
ordinary share.
If the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders makes a
decision in accordance with the proposal, the net profit will be
appropriated as follows:
Profit appropriation
 2017 2016
   
Net profit 1,769 621
   
Profit appropriation:   
- To be added to the reserves 1,438 311
- Dividend on cumprefs A 8 4
- Interim dividend on ordinary
shares 101 96
- Final dividend distributable on
ordinary shares 222 210
8 Borrowings
 2017  2016  
 Total Of which
currentTotal Of which
current
     
Debenture loans 2,542 - 3,290 749
Commercial paper - - - -
     
Total 2,542 - 3,290 749
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  220 www.dsm.comAt 31 December 2017, there were four debenture loans
(€ 
2,542 million, maturing in 2019, and 2022 through 2026).
The repayment schedule for borrowings (excluding
commercial paper) is as follows:
Borrowings by maturity
 2017 2016
   
2017 - 749
2018 - -
2019 300 300
2020 and 2021 - -
2022 through 2026 2,242 2,241
   
   
Total 2,542 3,290
In agreements governing loans with a residual amount at year-
end 2017 of € 2,542 million, of which zero is of a current nature
(31 December 2016: € 
3,290 million, of which € 749 million
was of a current nature), clauses have been included which
restrict the provision of security. More information on
borrowings is provided in Note 19 to the 'Consolidated
financial statements', 'Borrowings'.
9 Other current liabilities
 2017 2016
   
Liabilities to subsidiaries 729 1,203
Other liabilities 65 91
Deferred items - 5
   
Total 794 1,299
 10 Contingent liabilities
Guarantee obligations on behalf of affiliated companies and
third parties amounted to € 
379 million (31 December 2016:
€ 380 million). Koninklijke DSM N.V. has declared in writing
that it accepts several liabilities for debts arising from acts in
law of a number of consolidated companies (including relating
to the fiscal unity for income tax and VAT). These debts are
included in the consolidated balance sheet.
11 Personnel
The average number of employees working for Koninklijke
DSM N.V. in 2017 was 372 (2016: 376), all of whom are based
in the Netherlands.
12 Financial income and expense
Financial income of € 15 million (2016: € 16 million) mainly
consists of interest income relating to a net investment hedge.
Financial expense of € 105 million (2016: € 112 million) mainly
consists of the interest costs on bonds issued and the
counterpart of the net investment hedge. See also Notes 19
and 23 to the 'Consolidated financial statements'.Parent company financial statements — Notes to the parent company financial statements
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  221 www.dsm.com13 Remuneration of Managing Board and Supervisory
Board
Remuneration Managing Board in 2017
As part of its remuneration policy for the Managing Board,
DSM benchmarks its remuneration package against the
packages offered by the labor-market peer group once every
three years.
Base salary in 2017
Adjustment of the base salary is at the discretion of the
Supervisory Board. On 14 May 2017, it was decided to adjust
the annual base salary of the CEO by 2.2% and for the other
Managing Board members by 2.5% as of 1 July 2017.
Fixed annual salary
in € 1 July 2017 1 July 2016
  
Feike Sijbesma 920,000 900,000
Geraldine Matchett 605,000 590,000
Stephan Tanda1- 590,000
Dimitri de Vreeze 605,000 590,000
1Left DSM to pursue his career outside of the company as of 1 February 2017.
Short-Term Incentives (STI) for 2017
STI targets are revised annually so as to ensure that they are
stretching but realistic. Considerations regarding the
performance targets are influenced by the operational and
strategic course taken by the company and are directly linked
to the company's ambitions. The targets are determined at the
beginning of the year for each Board member.
Target STI level and pay-out
When they achieve all their targets, Managing Board members
receive an incentive of 50% of their annual base salary.
Outstanding performance can increase the STI level to 100%
of the annual base salary.
The 2017 Integrated Annual Report presents the Short-Term
Incentives that have been earned on the basis of results
achieved in 2017. These Short-Term Incentives will be paid
out in 2018.
The Supervisory Board has established the extent to which the
targets for 2017 were achieved and has used their
discretionary power to adjust achievements resulting in
partially higher pay-out, including impact on ROCE. Regarding
the financial targets, the score on the EBITDA target was
overachieved, while the score on gross free cash flow was on
target. The score for net sales growth was at maximum
achievement. For the sustainability targets, the score on
Brighter Living Solutions was on target, and the score on the
Employee Engagement Index was overachieved. The SafetyPerformance score was below threshold. Managing Board
members also have individual targets. The scores achieved on
these targets were at maximum achievement. The realization
of the 2017 financial STI targets has been assessed by KPMG.
Furthermore, KPMG has assessed the process with respect
to the target realization of the non-financial STI targets. The
realization percentage was 75% of base salary. The realization
percentage in 2017 was 75% of base salary versus
73.5-82.5% on average over 2016.
With the STI Deferral and Share Matching Plan, only part of the
STI outcome is paid in cash. 25% of the gross STI value is
mandatorily converted into DSM Investment shares.
Managing Board members can choose to convert up to a
further 25% into additional DSM Investment shares (in 5%
increments, with a minimum of 5% and a maximum of 25%).
The company matches these STI Investment shares with an
equivalent number of Restricted Share Units (RSUs), vesting
of which is deferred for three years, conditional on achieving
predefined performance targets equivalent to the measures
under the Long-Term Incentive (LTI) Plan. The remainder of the
STI gross outcome (50% to maximum 75%) is paid out in cash.
Short-Term Incentives
in € 2017120162
   
Feike Sijbesma 682,500 742,500
Geraldine Matchett 448,125 457,250
Stephan Tanda 3- 433,650
Dimitri de Vreeze 448,125 457,250
1Based on results achieved in 2017 and therefore payable in 2018.
2Based on results achieved in 2016 and therefore paid in 2017.
3Left DSM to pursue his career outside of the company as of 1 February 2017.
All members of the Managing Board decided to invest the
maximum of 50% of their gross 2016 STI (payable in 2017) in
accordance with the STI Deferral and Share Matching Plan. In
all cases, these investment shares were matched with an
equal number of Restricted Share Units (RSUs). This was also
the case with regard to the gross 2017 STI (which will be paid
in 2018).
Long-Term Incentives (LTI)
The following table provides an overview of the LTI
performance shares that were granted to members of the
Managing Board in the respective year. These performance
shares are subject to a three-year vesting period.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  222 www.dsm.comNumber of LTI performance shares granted1
 2017 2016
   
Feike Sijbesma 23,500 31,000
Geraldine Matchett 15,500 20,500
Stephan Tanda2- 20,500
Dimitri de Vreeze 15,500 20,500
1Grant according to Koninklijke DSM N.V. Performance Share Plan.
2Left DSM to pursue his career outside of the company as of 1 February 2017.
For 2018, the number of conditionally granted ordinary shares
under the LTI program will be:
-
Chairman 17,000
- Members 11,000
For an overview of all granted and vested stock options and
performance shares, see page 225.
In 2017, the Supervisory Board established which proportion
of the shares conditionally granted in 2014, vested. The
following four performance measures are applicable to the
2014 grant: relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) versus a
peer group, Return on Capital Employed (ROCE), Energy
Efficiency Improvement (EEI) and the Greenhouse-gas
Emissions (GHGE) reduction over volume-related revenue.
Each of these measures determines 25% of the total vesting
percentage. The applicable vesting schemes for the three-year
vesting period starting in 2014 were published in DSM's 2014
Integrated Annual Report. DSM's TSR performance minus the
peer group performance over the vesting period did not result
in the vesting of any shares, while the performance in terms of
GHGE reduction led to full vesting on this measure. Overall this
resulted in the vesting of 50% of the total amount of shares
granted in 2014.
Pensions in 2017
The members of the Managing Board participate in the Dutch
pension fund Stichting Pensioenfonds DSM Nederland (PDN).
This pension scheme for the Managing Board is equal to the
pension scheme for other DSM employees in the Netherlands.
The current pension plan for DSM in the Netherlands came
into effect in 2011. As of 1 January 2015, the Dutch tax
treatment of pension contributions changed resulting
in a change to the DSM pension plan. As a consequence, DSM
offers two non-qualifying individual defined contribution plans
to employees whose pensionable salary exceeds € 103,317
(2017 ceiling) per annum, including the Managing Board.A. Mandatory plan
-
Covers all employees employed in the Netherlands.
- Collective Defined Contribution Scheme: accrual based on
fixed contribution. Indexation or reduction of accrued
benefits, depending on PDN's coverage ratio.
- The accrual is tax exempt, the benefits will be taxed.
- Based on career-average base pay. Pensionable salary
equals base salary up to a maximum of (in 2017)
€ 103,317 per annum considering a deductible of
€ 13,592 (in 2017 subject to annual review). Accrual of
1.875% per annum.
- Retirement age 67 (as of 2016).
- The scheme includes a spouses'- and disability pension.
- Employee and employer contributions.  
B. Allowance for salary exceeding € 103,317
- Employees whose pensionable salary exceeds € 103,317
receive an age-dependent gross allowance that can be
used to participate in a net pension scheme. The allowance
is taxed.
Revision and claw-back of bonuses
As in 2016, no revision or claw-back of bonuses occurred in
2017.
Remuneration Managing Board and Executive Committee
The remuneration of the members of the Managing Board is
determined by the Supervisory Board within the framework of
the remuneration policy as approved by the Annual General
Meeting of Shareholders. More details about the remuneration
policy are included in the 'Report by the Supervisory Board'
from page 125 onwards.
Since 2015, DSM has had an Executive Committee, enabling
faster strategic alignment and operational execution by
increasing focus on the development of the business,
innovation and people. The members of the Executive
Committee in 2017 are the Managing Board members Feike
Sijbesma (CEO/Chairman), Geraldine Matchett (CFO) and
Dimitri de Vreeze (Materials), as well as Chris Goppelsroeder
(Nutritional Products), Philip Eykerman (Strategy and M&A),
Rob van Leen (R&D and Innovation) and Peter Vrijsen (People
& Organization), who was succeeded by Judith Wiese on 1
January 2018. The members of the Executive Committee
meet the definition of key management personnel.
The total remuneration and related costs (including pension
expenditures, other commitments, short- and long-term
incentives) of the current members of the Managing Board
amounted to € 5.5 million (2016: € 10.0 million).Parent company financial statements — Notes to the parent company financial statements
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  223 www.dsm.comThe total remuneration and related costs (including pension expenditures, other commitments, short-term and long-term incentives)
of the other members of the Executive Committee amounted to € 
5.5 million in 2017 (2016: € 5.7 million).
The cost of the remuneration of the individual members of the Managing Board and of the other members of the Executive
Committee collectively was as follows:
DSM's remuneration expense for the Managing Board and the Executive Committee
(the reported costs for DSM, according to IFRS definitions, are not in all cases the compensation paid, nor the cash
outflows for DSM)
 
x € thousand Salary Short-term
incentivePension
expenditure1Share-based
compensation2Other items3Total
 2017 2016 2017 2016 20174201652017 2016 2017 2016 2017 20165
             
Feike Sijbesma 910 900 683 743 214 206 850 811 50 50 2,707 2,710
Geraldine Matchett 598 590 448 457 101 87 634 445 74 77 1,855 1,656
Stephan Tanda649 590 - 434 9 116 (895) 531 1 111 (836) 1,782
Dimitri de Vreeze 598 590 448 457 112 100 552 496 39 40 1,749 1,683
             
Total Managing Board 2,155 2,670 1,579 2,091 436 509 1,141 2,283 164 278 5,475 7,831
             
Other members of the Executive
Committee 1,995 1,950 1,497 1,489 432 408 1,271 1,255 298 615 5,493 5,717
             
Total Executive Committee 4,150 4,620 3,076 3,580 868 917 2,412 3,538 462 893 10,968 13,548
1The employers' pension expenditure increased due to an adjustment of the employer/employee ratio, not impacting the overall contribution to the net pension scheme.
2Share-based compensation expense represents the non-cash cost for DSM of performance shares awarded to members of the Managing Board and stock options to other
members of the Executive Committee. These costs are recognized over the vesting period of the performance shares and stock options and therefore cover several years. The
percentage of vesting of shares and options will determine the final income for the Managing Board and Executive Committee members.
3Other items include company car and allowances.
4The pension expenditure contains an age-dependent contribution for the salary exceeding € 103,317. For employees with a higher age, a higher contribution level is applicable.
5In 2016, this amount included a one-time additional pension contribution of € 2.2 million, bringing the total 2016 pension expenditure to € 2,709 thousand and the total remuneration
of the CEO to € 
4,910 thousand. For the entire Managing Board the total remuneration for 2016 was € 10,031 thousand.
6Left DSM to pursue his career outside of the company as of 1 February 2017. The cumulative expense of the share-based compensation previously recognized for not yet vested
performance shares has been reversed in 2017.
Pay ratio
Under the new Dutch Corporate Governance Code
companies are required to publish a pay ratio. As the code
does not provide a definition of the pay ratio, the calculation
method applied will vary per company, which will make the
pay ratio data incomparable. The pay ratio per company will
also differ year on year, since the variable pay (as a percentage
of annual base salary) of the CEO/Managing Board is typically
much higher (100% at target) than the variable pay of the
comparable average employee group (about 5-10% of annual
base pay), and this variable pay will fluctuate with business
results. On top of that, different regions of the world have
different pay structures, so acquisitions/divestments will
equally influence the pay ratio. DSM complies with the
governance code in providing a pay ratio, using the following
calculation method, as measured per 31 December 20171.
1Underlying data can be retrieved from table 'DSM's remuneration expense
for the Managing Board and the Executive Committee' (see above) as well
as Note 4 table 'Geographical information' under 'Workforce at year-end' on
page 174 and Note 5 table 'Employee benefits costs' on page 175 of the
'Consolidated financial statements’. Data for the Netherlands are explicitly
mentioned as they are not directly retrievable.The ratio of total remuneration of the CEO, including annual
base salary, short-term incentives, long-term incentives and
other benefits such as pension (as reported in this annual
report) versus the average of total global employee (i.e.
including Dutch) remuneration (after deduction of total
remuneration of the CEO) is 32:1.
Furthermore, the pay ratio of the full Managing Board total
remuneration average versus the average of total global
employee remuneration (after deduction of total
remuneration of the Managing Board) is 25:1. In case the ratio
is calculated versus the Dutch employee remuneration
average, the ratios will be 20:1 (compared to CEO
remuneration) or 16:1 (compared to average Managing Board
remuneration). This is based on total NL cost of EUR 522
million (which includes the remuneration of the Managing
Board and has been deducted in the ratio calculation) and a
head count in the Netherlands of 3,831 as per 31 December
2017.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  224 www.dsm.comOutstanding and exercised stock incentives
The following table shows the stock incentives of the individual members of the Managing Board and the rights exercised.
Overview of stock options
 Year of issue Outstanding
at 31 Dec.
2016In 2017 Outstanding
at 31 Dec.
20171Average
share price at
exercise (€ 
)Exercise price
(€ 
)Expiry date
Granted Exercised Forfeited/
expired
         
Dimitri de Vreeze 2010 18,000 - - - 18,000  33.10 6 Apr 2018
 2011 18,000 - - - 18,000  46.20 2 May 2019
 2012 12,000 - - - 12,000  40.90 15 May2020
 2013 12,000 - - - 12,000  48.91 7 May 2021
 Total 60,000 - - - 60,000    
Of which vested 60,000    60,000    
1The other members of the Managing Board do not hold any stock options.
Since 2010, the Managing Board has been granted LTI performance shares instead of stock options.Parent company financial statements — Notes to the parent company financial statements
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  225 www.dsm.comOverview of performance shares
 Year of issue Outstanding
at 31 Dec.
2016In 2017 Outstanding
at 31 Dec.
2017Share price
at date of
grant (€ 
)Granted Vested Forfeited /
expired
       
Feike Sijbesma 2014 28,822 - (14,411) (14,411) - 49.88
 2015 32,051 - - - 32,051 52.58
 2016 36,350 - - - 36,350 48.79
 2017 - 29,333 - - 29,333 63.65
 Total 97,223 29,333 (14,411) (14,411) 97,734  
Retained shares originated from performance shares 81,035  
       
Geraldine Matchett 2015 27,008 - - - 27,008 52.58
 2016 24,006 - - - 24,006 48.79
 2017 - 19,092 - - 19,092 63.65
 Total 51,014 19,092 - - 70,106  
Retained shares originated from performance shares -  
       
Stephan Tanda 2014 18,990 - - (18,990) - 49.88
 2015 20,511 - - (20,511) - 52.58
 2016 24,064 - - (24,064) - 48.79
 Total 63,565 - - (63,565) -  
Retained shares originated from performance shares n.a.  
       
Dimitri de Vreeze 2014 16,910 - (8,455) (8,455) - 49.88
 2015 20,836  - - 20,836 52.58
 2016 24,005 - - - 24,005 48.79
 2017 - 19,092 - - 19,092 63.65
 Total 61,751 19,092 (8,455) (8,455) 63,933  
Retained shares originated from performance shares 4,431  
       
Other members Executive committee 2016 53,616 - - - 53,616 48.79
 2017 - 45,577 - - 45,577 63.65
 Total 53,616 45,577 - - 99,193  
Retained shares originated from performance shares -  
Purchasing shares
In addition to the performance shares granted under the DSM Stock Incentive Plan, the current members of the Managing Board
have themselves invested in DSM shares.
All members of the Managing Board have purchased shares in the company to emphasize their confidence in the strategy and the
company. At 31 December 2017, the members of the Managing Board together held 174,734 (2016: 198,290) shares in Koninklijke
DSM N.V. These shares were bought through private transactions with private funds (including shares bought from earned STI)
and obtained through vested performance shares.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  226 www.dsm.comManaging Board holdings of DSM shares
 31 December 2017 31 December 2016
 Ordinary shares
purchased with
private moneyHoldings from
vested
performance
sharesTotal 
holdingsOrdinary shares
purchased with
private moneyHoldings from
vested
performance
sharesTotal 
holdings
       
Feike Sijbesma 64,209 81,035 145,244 58,376 66,624 125,000
Geraldine Matchett 7,976 - 7,976 4,384 - 4,384
Stephan Tanda - - - 18,065 37,350 55,415
Dimitri de Vreeze 17,083 4,431 21,514 13,491 - 13,491
       
Total holdings 89,268 85,466 174,734 94,316 103,974 198,290
Loans
The company does not provide any loans to members of the Managing Board.
Supervisory Board remuneration in 2017
The remuneration package for the Supervisory Board comprises an annual fixed fee and an annual committee membership fee. In
addition, Supervisory Board members receive an intercontinental travel allowance for each meeting that they attend outside their
continent of residence of € 
4,000 (2016: € 4,000).
The fixed fee per appointed year for the Chair of the Supervisory Board is € 85,000 (2016: € 85,000). The other members of the
Supervisory Board each receive a fixed fee of € 60,000 (2016: € 60,000). Audit Committee membership is awarded € 10,000 (2016:
€ 10,000) per member and € 15,000 (2016: € 15,000) for the Chair. Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee and
Sustainability Committee membership is awarded € 7,000 (2016: € 7,000) per member and € 10,000 (2016: € 10,000) for the Chair.
Overview of remuneration awarded to the Supervisory Board in 2017
The total remuneration (annual fixed fee, annual committee membership fee and other costs such as the intercontinental travel
allowance) of the members of the Supervisory Board amounted to € 0.7 million (2016: € 0.6 million).
The remuneration of the individual members of the Supervisory Board was as follows:
Remuneration Supervisory Board members
in € Annual fixed fee Committee fee Other costs  Total
    2017 2016
      
Rob Routs, Chairman 85,000 17,000 5,250 107,250 96,750
Tom de Swaan, Deputy Chairman (as of 29 April 2016) 60,000 22,000 5,250 87,250 79,604
Victoria Haynes 60,000 17,000 17,250 94,250 87,584
Pierre Hochuli (until 3 May 2017) 20,000 5,667 313 25,980 74,250
Eileen Kennedy 60,000 17,000 17,250 94,250 93,917
Ewald Kist, Deputy Chairman (until 29 April 2016) - - - - 21,740
Pauline van der Meer Mohr 60,000 17,000 5,250 82,250 74,604
Frits van Paasschen (as of 3 May 2017) 40,000 11,333 16,937 68,270 -
Pradeep Pant (as of 29 April 2016) 60,000 17,000 25,250 102,250 72,271
John Ramsay (as of 3 May 2017) 40,000 6,667 4,938 51,605 -
      
Total 485,000 130,667 97,688 713,355 600,720
      
Total 2016 420,002 111,000 69,718 600,720  Parent company financial statements — Notes to the parent company financial statements
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  227 www.dsm.comCommittee Overview
 Nomination Remuneration Auditing Sustainability
     
Rob Routs, Chairman Chairman Member - -
Tom de Swaan, Deputy Chairman - Member Chairman -
Victoria Haynes - Member Member -
Pierre Hochuli (until 3 May 2017) - - Member Member
Eileen Kennedy Member - - Chairman
Pauline van der Meer Mohr Member Chairman - -
Frits van Paasschen (as of 3 May 2017) - - Member Member
Pradeep Pant (as of 29 April 2016) - - Member Member
John Ramsay (as of 3 May 2017) - - Member -
At year-end 2017, two members of the Supervisory Board held shares in Koninklijke DSM N.V.: Victoria Haynes 300 (2016: 300)
and Pauline van der Meer Mohr 1,029 (2016: 1,029).
Loans
The company does not provide any loans to members of the Supervisory Board.
 Heerlen, 27 February 2018  Heerlen, 27 February 2018
    
    
 Managing Board,  Supervisory Board,
    
 Feike Sijbesma, CEO/Chairman  Rob Routs, Chairman
 Geraldine Matchett, CFO  Tom de Swaan, Deputy Chairman
 Dimitri de Vreeze  Victoria Haynes
   Eileen Kennedy
   Pauline van der Meer Mohr
   Frits van Paasschen
   Pradeep Pant
   John Ramsay
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  228 www.dsm.comIndependent auditor's report
To: the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and the
Supervisory Board of Koninklijke DSM N.V.
Report on the audit of the financial statements 2017
included in the Integrated Annual Report
Our opinion
In our opinion:
-the accompanying consolidated financial statements give a
true and fair view of the financial position of Koninklijke DSM
N.V. (hereafter: Royal DSM) as at 31 December 2017 and
of its result and its cash flows for the year then ended, in
accordance with International Financial Reporting
Standards as adopted by the European Union (EU-IFRS)
and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
-
the accompanying parent company financial statements
give a true and fair view of the financial position of Royal
DSM as at 31 December 2017 and of its result for the year
then ended, in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the
Dutch Civil Code.
What we have audited
We have audited the financial statements 2017 of Royal DSM
based in Heerlen. The financial statements include the
consolidated financial statements and the parent company
financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements comprise:
- the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2017;
-the following consolidated statements for 2017: the income
statement, the statement of comprehensive income, the
statement of changes in equity and cash flow statement;
and
- the notes comprising a summary of the significant
accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The parent company financial statements comprise:
- the parent company balance sheet as at 31 December
2017;
- the parent company income statement for 2017; and
-the notes comprising a summary of the accounting policies
and other explanatory information.
Basis for our opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law,
including the Dutch Standards on Auditing. Our
responsibilities under those standards are further described in
the 'Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial
statements' section of our report.
We are independent of Royal DSM in accordance with the EU
Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory auditsof public-interest entities, the Wet toezicht
accountantsorganisaties (Wta, Audit firms supervision act), the
Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij
assurance-opdrachten (ViO, Code of Ethics for Professional
Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence) and
other relevant independence regulations in the Netherlands.
Furthermore, we have complied with the Verordening
gedrags- en beroepsregels accountants (VGBA, Dutch Code
of Ethics).
We believe the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Audit approach
Summary
Materiality
• Materiality o
f € 30 million
• 3.5% of adjusted profit before tax from 
continuing operations
Group audit
• Audit at (business) g
roup and local entity level 
resulting in a coverage of 73% of net sales from 
continuing operations and 80% of total assets
Key audit matters
• Valuatio
n of goodwill
• Impairment on POET-DSM joint venture
• Divestment of Patheon
Unqualified opinion
Materiality
Based on our professional judgment we determined the
materiality for the financial statements as a whole at € 
30
million (2016: € 30 million). The materiality is determined with
reference to adjusted profit before tax from continuing
operations (Note 2: € 853 million; 2016: € 609 million) of which
it represents 3.5% (2016: 4.9%). In addition, the
appropriateness of the materiality was assessed by comparing
the amount to consolidated net sales from continuing
operations of which it represents 0.3% (2016: 0.4%). We have
also taken into account misstatements and/or possible
misstatements that in our opinion are material for qualitative
reasons for the users of the financial statements.
We agreed with the Supervisory Board that misstatements in
excess of € 1 million (2016: € 1 million), which are identified
during the audit, are reported to them, as well as smaller
misstatements that in our view must be reported on qualitative
grounds.
Scope of the group audit
Royal DSM is head of a group of reporting entities (hereafter:
entities). The financial information of this group is included in
the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM.Other information
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  229 www.dsm.comBecause we are ultimately responsible for the auditor's report,
we are also responsible for directing, supervising and
performing the group audit. In this respect we have
determined the nature and extent of the audit procedures to
be carried out for entities reporting for group audit purposes.
Decisive were the size and/or the risk profile of the entities or
operations. On this basis, we selected 25 entities (2016: 27
entities) to perform audits for group reporting purposes on a
complete set of financial information as well as 17 entities
(2016: 14 entities) to perform specified audit procedures for
group reporting purposes on specific items of financial
information.
This resulted in a coverage of 73% (2016: 74%) of total net
sales from continuing operations and 80% (2016: 81%) of total
assets. The remaining 27% of total net sales from continuing
operations (2016: 26%) and 20% of total assets (2016: 19%)
is represented by a significant number of entities ('Remaining
entities'), none of which individually represents more than 2%
of total net sales from continuing operations and 2% of total
assets.
For these remaining entities, we performed amongst others
analytical procedures at (business) group level to validate our
assessment that there are no significant risks of material
misstatement within these entities.
Our procedures as described above can be summarized as
follows:
Full scope 
audits55%18% 27%
Specified 
audit proceduresCentral  
procedures 
remaining entities
68% 12% 20%Total Net sales from continuing operations
Total assets
Full scope 
auditsSpecified 
audit proceduresCentral  
procedures 
remain
ing entities
We have:
-
performed audit procedures ourselves at (business) group
level in respect of areas such as the annual goodwill
impairment tests, other (in)tangible asset impairments,
accounting for associates and joint ventures, valuation of
deferred tax assets, acquisitions, disposals, restructurings,
treasury and shared service centers;- used the work of local KPMG auditors when auditing or
performing specified audit procedures at business group
and local entity level; and
-
used the work of local non-KPMG auditors when auditing
Royal DSM's investments such as DSM Sinochem
Pharmaceuticals, Ltd and ChemicaInvest Holding B.V.
The group audit team has set materiality levels for the entities,
which ranged from € 5 million to € 12.5 million (2016: € 5 million
to € 12.5 million), based on the mix of size and risk profile of
the entities within the group.
The group audit team provided detailed instructions to all
business group and local entity auditors part of the group
audit, covering the significant audit areas, including the
relevant risks of material misstatement, and the information
required to be reported back to the group audit team. The
group audit team visited entity locations in the United States
of America, Switzerland, China, Singapore and the shared
service center in India.
Telephone conferences were held with all entity auditors part
of the group audit. During these visits and telephone
conferences, we discussed the audit approach and the audit
findings and observations reported to the group audit team.
For a number of these entities, including Royal DSM's
investment in Patheon N.V., we also performed file reviews.
By performing the procedures mentioned above at reporting
entities, together with additional procedures at (business)
group level, we have been able to obtain sufficient and
appropriate audit evidence about the group's financial
information to provide an opinion about the financial
statements.
Our key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional
judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the
financial statements. We have communicated the key audit
matters to the Supervisory Board. The key audit matters are
not a comprehensive reflection of all matters discussed.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of
the financial statements as a whole and in forming our opinion
thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these
matters.
Compared to last year we have added as a key audit matter
the divestment of Royal DSM's investment in Patheon N.V. as
the accounting for this transaction is significant for the financial
statements. Last year's key audit matters about the valuation
of deferred tax assets and the Alternative performance
measures are not included anymore in 2017 given the
decreased risk profile of valuation of deferred tax assets and
the lower prominence given to Alternative performance
measures in the financial statements.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  230 www.dsm.comValuation of goodwill
Description
Royal DSM carries a significant amount of goodwill in the
balance sheet. Under EU-IFRS, the company is required to
test the amount of goodwill for impairment at least annually.
The impairment tests were significant to our audit due to the
complexity of the assessment process and judgments and
assumptions involved which are affected by expected future
market and economic developments.
Our response
We challenged the cash flow projections included in the annual
goodwill impairment tests. Our audit procedures included,
amongst others, the involvement of a valuation specialist to
assist us in evaluating the assumptions, in particular the
terminal growth and pre-tax discount rates, and the valuation
methodology used by Royal DSM. We furthermore assessed
the appropriateness of other data used by comparing them to
external and historical data, such as external market growth
expectations and by analyzing sensitivities in Royal DSM's
valuation model. We specifically focused on the sensitivity in
the available headroom for the cash generating units,
evaluating whether a reasonably possible change in
assumptions could cause the carrying amount to exceed its
recoverable amount and assessed the historical accuracy of
management's estimates. We assessed the adequacy of the
disclosure (Note 8) to the financial statements.
Our observation
We consider management's key assumptions and estimates
to be within the acceptable range and we assessed the
disclosure (Note 8) to the financial statements as being
proportionate.
Impairment on joint venture POET-DSM Advanced
Biofuels LLC
Description
Royal DSM has a 50% investment in POET-DSM Advanced
Biofuels which is classified as joint venture in accordance with
IFRS 11 and accounted for using the equity method. The
POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels joint venture continued to
experience delays in the start-up of the factory which
management assessed as an indicator for impairment. In the
third quarter of 2017 an impairment test was performed by
management. 
This impairment test was significant to our audit as this test
required significant management judgment in determining the
expected cash flows to calculate the recoverable amount.
Changes for example in projected sales volumes, related
variable costs and the anticipated market price for bio-ethanolmay impact the future cash flow projections. The impairment
test resulted in the recognition of an impairment of € 65 million.
Our response
In our audit we assessed and tested the assumptions,
methodologies, the pre-tax weighted average cost of capital
and other data used, for example by comparing them to
external data. Key assumptions tested by us include
expectations of revenue growth, margin improvements as a
result of anticipated improvements in the factory and
developments of the market price for bio-ethanol. We included
in our team valuation specialists to assist us with these
procedures. Furthermore we held meetings with local and
corporate management involved in the investment POET-
DSM. We assessed the adequacy of the disclosure in Note 10
to the financial statements.
Our observation
We consider management's key assumptions and estimates,
that resulted in the recognition of an impairment, to be within
the acceptable range and we assessed the disclosure (Note
10) to the financial statements as being proportionate.
Divestment of Patheon N.V.
Description
On 29 August 2017 Royal DSM completed the sale of its
investment in Patheon N.V. This sale resulted in a gain on
disposal of € 
1,250 million. Given the amounts involved, the
accounting for this transaction is significant for the financial
statements.
Our response
We tested the accuracy and completeness of the reported
gain upon the disposal by comparing the consideration
received against the terms and conditions according to the
Share Purchase Agreement (SPA), the cash receipts and by
reconciling the book value of the disposed amount to the
underlying accounting records. We verified whether the gain
on disposal was calculated in accordance with the relevant
clauses of the SPA underlying the transaction. We also
evaluated the adequacy of the disclosure (Note 10) of this
disposal in the financial statements.
Our observation
We consider that the gain on disposal is appropriately reflected
in the financial statements and we assessed the disclosure
(Note 10) to the financial statements as being proportionate.Other information — Independent auditor's report
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  231 www.dsm.comReport on the other information included in the Integrated
Annual Report
In addition to the financial statements and our auditor's report
thereon, the Integrated Annual Report contains other
information that consists of:
-Report by the Managing Board which includes the chapters
Key data, Letter from the CEO, Report by the Managing
Board, Review of business, Financial and reporting policies
and Corporate governance and risk management;
-
Report by the Supervisory Board which includes the
chapters Report by the Supervisory Board and Supervisory
Board and Managing Board Royal DSM;
-Other information pursuant to Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch
Civil Code; and
- Other information which consists of the chapters What still
went wrong, Information about the DSM share,
Sustainability statements, DSM figures: five-year summary
and Explanation of some concepts and ratios.
Based on the following procedures performed, we conclude
that the other information:
- is consistent with the financial statements and does not
contain material misstatements; and
- contains the information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 of
the Dutch Civil Code.
We have read the other information. Based on our knowledge
and understanding obtained through our audit of the financial
statements or otherwise, we have considered whether the
other information contains material misstatements.
By performing these procedures, we comply with the
requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and
the Dutch Standard 720. The scope of the procedures
performed is substantially less than the scope of those
performed in our audit of the financial statements.
The Managing Board is responsible for the preparation of the
other information, including the Report by the Managing Board
in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code
and the other information pursuant to Part 9 of Book 2 of the
Dutch Civil Code.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements
Engagement
We were engaged by the Annual General Meeting of
Shareholders as auditor of Royal DSM on 7 May 2014, as of
the audit for the year 2015 and have operated as statutory
auditor ever since that financial year.
No prohibited non-audit services
We have not provided prohibited non-audit services as
referred to in Article 5(1) of the EU Regulation on specificrequirements regarding statutory audits of public-interest
entities.
Description of the responsibilities for the financial
statements
Responsibilities of the Managing Board and the Supervisory
Board for the financial statements
The Managing Board is responsible for the preparation and fair
presentation of the financial statements in accordance with
EU-IFRS and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
Furthermore, the Managing Board is responsible for such
internal control as the Managing Board determines is
necessary to enable the preparation of the financial statements
that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud
or error.
As part of the preparation of the financial statements, the
Managing Board is responsible for assessing Royal DSM's
ability to continue as a going concern. Based on the financial
reporting frameworks mentioned, the Managing Board should
prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis
of accounting unless the Managing Board either intends to
liquidate the company or to cease operations, or has no
realistic alternative but to do so. The Managing Board should
disclose events and circumstances that may cast significant
doubt on the company's ability to continue as a going concern
in the financial statements.
The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the
company's financial reporting process, among other things.
Our responsibilities for the audit of financial statements
Our objective is to plan and perform the audit engagement in
a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate
audit evidence for our opinion.
Our audit has been performed with a high, but not absolute,
level of assurance, which means we may not detect all material
errors and fraud during our audit.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they
could reasonably be expected to influence the economic
decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial
statements. The materiality affects the nature, timing and
extent of our audit procedures and the evaluation of the effect
of identified misstatements on our opinion.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  232 www.dsm.comA further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the
financial statements is included the in appendix to this
auditor's report. This description forms part of our auditor's
report.
Amstelveen, 27 February 2018
KPMG Accountants N.V.
E.H.W. Weusten RA
Appendix: Description of our responsibilities for the audit
of the financial statements
We have exercised professional judgement and have
maintained professional skepticism throughout the audit, in
accordance with Dutch Standards on Auditing, ethical
requirements and independence requirements. Our audit
included among others:
-identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement
of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error,
designing and performing audit procedures responsive to
those risks, and obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk
of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud
is higher than the risk resulting from error, as fraud may
involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions,
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control;
-obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to the
audit in order to design audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of
expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of Royal DSM's
internal control;
- evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used
and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and
related disclosures made by the Managing Board;
-concluding on the appropriateness of the Managing Board's
use of the going concern basis of accounting, and based on
the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty
exists related to events or conditions that may cast
significant doubt on Royal DSM's ability to continue as a
going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty
exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor's
report to the related disclosures in the financial statements
or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion.Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained
up to the date of our auditor's report. However, future events
or conditions may cause a company to cease to continue
as a going concern;
-evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of
the financial statements, including the disclosures; and
- evaluating whether the financial statements represent the
underlying transactions and events in a manner that
achieves fair presentation.
Because we are ultimately responsible for the opinion, we are
also responsible for directing, supervising and performing the
group audit. In this respect we have determined the nature and
extent of the audit procedures to be carried out for group
components. Decisive were the size and/or the risk profile of
the group components or operations. On this basis, we
selected group components for which an audit or review had
to be carried out on the complete set of financial information
or specific items.
We communicate with the Supervisory Board regarding,
among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the
audit and significant audit findings, including any significant
findings in internal control that we identify during our audit. In
this respect we also submit an additional report to the Audit
Committee of the Supervisory Board in accordance with
Article 11 of the EU Regulation on specific requirements
regarding statutory audits of public-interest entities. The
information included in this additional report is consistent with
our audit opinion in this auditor's report.
We provide the Supervisory Board with a statement that we
have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all
relationships and other matters that may reasonably be
thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable,
related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with the Supervisory Board,
we determine the key audit matters: those matters that were
of most significance in the audit of the financial statements.
We describe these matters in our auditor's report unless law
or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or
when, in extremely rare circumstances, not communicating
the matter is in the public interest.Other information — Independent auditor's report
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  233 www.dsm.comAssurance report of the independent
auditor
To: the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and the
Supervisory Board of Koninklijke DSM N.V.
Our conclusion
We have reviewed the sustainability information in the
sections: 'DSM and the Sustainable Development Goals',
'Strategy 2018', 'How DSM creates value for its stakeholders',
'Stakeholders', 'People', 'Planet' and 'Sustainability
Statements', as included in the Integrated Annual Report
(hereafter: the Selected Sustainability Information) over the
year 2017 of Koninklijke DSM N.V. (hereafter: Royal DSM),
based in Heerlen, the Netherlands. A review is aimed at
obtaining a limited level of assurance.
Based on our procedures performed, nothing has come to our
attention that causes us to believe that the Selected
Sustainability Information is not prepared, in all material
respects, in accordance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting
Standards and the internally developed criteria as disclosed in
the section 'Reporting policy' on page 99.
Basis for our conclusion
We have performed our review on the Selected Sustainability
Information in accordance with Dutch law, including Dutch
Standard 3810N 'Assurance-opdrachten inzake
maatschappelijke verslagen' (Assurance engagements
relating to sustainability reports), which is a specified Dutch
standard that is based on the International Standard on
Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 'Assurance
Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical
Financial Information'.
Our responsibilities under this standard are further described
in the section 'Our responsibilities for the review of the
Selected Sustainability Information' of our report.
We are independent of Royal DSM in accordance with the
'Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij
assurance-opdrachten' (ViO, Code of Ethics for Professional
Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence) and
other relevant independence regulations in the Netherlands.
Furthermore, we have complied with the 'Verordening
gedrags- en beroepsregels accountants' (VGBA, Dutch Code
of Ethics).
We believe that the assurance evidence we have obtained is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
conclusion.Scope of the group review
Royal DSM is the parent company of a group of entities. The
Selected Sustainability Information incorporates the
consolidated information of this group of entities.
Our group review procedures consisted of both review
procedures at corporate (consolidated) level and at site level.
Our selection of sites in scope of our review procedures is
primarily based on the site's individual contribution to the
consolidated information. Furthermore, our selection of sites
considered relevant reporting risks and geographical spread.
By performing our procedures at site level, together with
additional procedures at corporate level, we have been able
to obtain sufficient and appropriate assurance evidence about
the group's reported information to provide a conclusion
about the Selected Sustainability Information.
Unexamined prospective information
The Selected Sustainability Information includes prospective
information such as ambitions, strategy, plans, expectations
and estimates. Inherently the actual future results are
uncertain. We do not provide any assurance on the
assumptions and achievability of prospective information in
the Selected Sustainability Information.
Consistency with the Selected Sustainability Information
included in other parts of the Integrated Annual Report
In addition to the Selected Sustainability Information and our
assurance report thereon, the Integrated Annual Report
contains other sustainability information.
Based on the following procedures performed, we conclude
that the sustainability information included in other parts of the
Integrated Annual Report is consistent with the Selected
Sustainability Information and does not contain material
misstatements.
We have read the other parts of the Integrated Annual Report.
Based on our knowledge and understanding obtained through
our review of the Selected Sustainability Information, we have
considered whether the sustainability information included in
other parts of the Integrated Annual Report contains material
misstatements.
The scope of the procedures performed is substantially less
than the scope of those performed in our review of the
Selected Sustainability Information.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  234 www.dsm.comResponsibilities of the Managing Board for the Selected
Sustainability Information
The Managing Board of Royal DSM is responsible for the
preparation of the Selected Sustainability Information in
accordance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards
and the internally developed criteria as disclosed in the section
'Reporting policy' on page 99.
The Managing Board is also responsible for such internal
control as it determines is necessary to enable the preparation
of the Selected Sustainability Information in a manner that
ensures that this is free from material misstatement, whether
due to fraud or error.
Our responsibilities for the review of the Selected
Sustainability Information
Our responsibility is to plan and perform the assurance
engagement in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and
appropriate assurance evidence for our conclusion.
Procedures performed in an assurance engagement to obtain
a limited level of assurance are aimed at determining the
plausibility of information and are less extensive than a
reasonable assurance engagement. The level of assurance
obtained in review engagements is therefore substantially less
than the level of assurance obtained in an audit engagement.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or errors and are
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they
could reasonably be expected to influence the decisions of
users taken on the basis of the Selected Sustainability
Information. The materiality affects the nature, timing and
extent of our review procedures and the evaluation of the effect
of identified misstatements on our conclusion.
We apply the 'Nadere voorschriften kwaliteitssystemen'
(Regulations on quality management systems) and
accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality
control including documented policies and procedures
regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional
standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
We have exercised professional judgement and have
maintained professional skepticism throughout the review, in
accordance with the Dutch Standard 3810N, ethical
requirements and independence requirements.
Our review engagement included, among others, the following
procedures:
- Performing an analysis of the external environment,
obtaining an understanding of relevant social themes and
issues, and of Royal DSM's business;- Evaluating the appropriateness of the reporting criteria and
its consistent application, including the evaluation of the
reasonableness of the Managing Board's estimates;
- Evaluating the design and implementation of the reporting
systems and processes related to the information in the
Selected Sustainability Information;
- Interviewing the Managing Board, management and
relevant staff at corporate and business group level
responsible for the sustainability strategy and policy;
- Interviewing relevant staff responsible for providing the
Selected Sustainability Information, carrying out internal
control procedures on the data and consolidating the data
in the Selected Sustainability Information;
- A limited number of visits to production sites to review the
source data and the design and implementation of internal
controls and validation procedures at local level;
- An analytical review of the data and trends submitted for
consolidation at corporate level;
-Reviewing relevant data and evaluating internal and external
documentation, based on limited sampling, to assess the
accuracy of the information in the Selected Sustainability
Information; and
- Reviewing the results of procedures performed by the
Corporate Operational Audit department of Royal DSM with
respect to the Selected Sustainability Information.
We communicate with the Supervisory Board regarding,
among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the
review and significant findings, including any significant
findings in internal control that we identify during our review.
Amstelveen, 27 February 2018
KPMG Accountants N.V.
E.H.W. Weusten RAOther information — Assurance report of the independent auditor
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  235 www.dsm.comSpecial statutory rights
DSM Preference Shares Foundation
The DSM Preference Shares Foundation was established in
1989.
By virtue of DSM's Articles of Association, 375,000,000
cumulative preference shares B can be issued. The listing
prospectus of 1989 stated that if, without the approval of the
Managing Board and Supervisory Board, either a bid is made
for the ordinary shares or a significant participation in ordinary
shares is built up, or such an event is likely to occur, then these
preference shares B may be issued, which shall have the same
voting rights as the ordinary shares.
Under an agreement entered into in 1999, and subsequently
amended, between the DSM Preference Shares Foundation
and DSM, the Foundation has the right to acquire such
preference shares (call option) to a maximum corresponding
to 100% of the capital issued in any form other than preference
shares B, less one.
The objective of the Foundation is to promote the interest of
DSM, and the enterprise maintained by DSM and all parties
connected therewith, whereby influences that would threaten
the continuity, independence or identity, contrary to the
aforementioned interests, are resisted to the maximum extent
possible.
The purpose of the agreement with the Foundation is, among
other things, for the Foundation to allow DSM the opportunity
to determine its position, for example with regard to a possible
bidder for DSM shares or a party or parties tempting to obtain
(de facto) control, to examine any plans in detail and, to the
extent applicable, to look for (better) alternatives. Preference
shares B will not be outstanding longer than necessary. As
soon as there are no longer any reasons for the preference
shares B to remain outstanding, the Managing Board will
convene a General Meeting of Shareholders and recommend
the cancellation of the preference shares B that are still
outstanding.
The Foundation acquired no preference shares B in 2017.
The DSM Preference Shares Foundation is an independent
legal entity within the meaning of article 5:71, first paragraph,
under c of the Dutch Act on Financial Supervision (Wet op het
financieel toezicht).On 31 December 2017, the board of the Foundation was
composed as follows:
Gerard Kleisterlee, Chairman 
Cees Maas, Vice-Chairman 
Mick den Boogert
Important dates
Annual General Meeting of Shareholders
The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders is to be held at the
DSM head office in Heerlen (Netherlands) on Wednesday, 9 May
2018 at 14:00 hours CET.
  
Important dates  
Publication of first-quarter
results Tuesday, 8 May 2018
Ex-dividend quotation Friday,11 May 2018
Publication of second-quarter
results Wednesday, 1 August 2018
Publication of third-quarter
results Wednesday, 31 October 2018
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  236 www.dsm.comBalance sheet1
x € million 2017 2016 2015 2014 20132
      
Assets      
      
Intangible assets 3,058 3,188 3,228 2,867 2,690
Property, plant and equipment 3,313 3,325 3,171 3,673 3,611
Deferred tax assets 281 355 366 427 364
Share in associates and joint ventures 227 586 644 617 247
Financial derivatives 16 - 32 23 69
Other financial assets 475 463 419 275 200
Non-current assets 7,370 7,917 7,860 7,882 7,181
      
Inventories 1,848 1,800 1,627 1,739 1,638
Current receivables 1,690 1,653 1,556 1,769 1,597
Financial derivatives 41 40 15 24 57
Current investments 954 944 9 6 19
Cash and cash equivalents 899 604 665 669 770
 5,432 5,041 3,872 4,207 4,081
Assets held for sale - - 11 37 637
Current assets 5,432 5,041 3,883 4,244 4,718
      
Total assets 12,802 12,958 11,743 12,126 11,899
      
Equity and liabilities      
      
Shareholders' equity 6,962 6,072 5,541 5,723 5,908
Non-controlling interests 103 108 90 213 188
Equity 7,065 6,180 5,631 5,936 6,096
      
Deferred tax liabilities 259 278 319 365 375
Employee benefits liabilities 356 490 496 479 326
Provisions 151 128 98 105 97
Borrowings 2,551 2,552 2,557 1,637 1,725
Financial derivatives 4 14 182 178 181
Other non-current liabilities 188 158 228 81 75
Non-current liabilities 3,509 3,620 3,880 2,845 2,779
      
Employee benefits liabilities 39 40 44 45 34
Provisions 53 54 41 42 65
Borrowings 77 853 253 1,143 841
Financial derivatives 20 239 50 184 9
Current liabilities 2,039 1,972 1,842 1,915 1,845
 2,228 3,158 2,230 3,329 2,794
Liabilities held for sale - - 2 16 230
Current liabilities 2,228 3,158 2,232 3,345 3,024
      
Total equity and liabilities 12,802 12,958 11,743 12,126 11,899
1Financial derivatives were previously assigned to Current assets and liabilities. The figures have now been distributed over Non-current and Current assets and liabilities.
2Application of IFRS 11 'Joint Arrangements' that came into effect from 1 January 2014. The year 2013 has been restated.DSM figures: five-year summary
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  237 www.dsm.comIncome statement
x € million 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013
      
Net sales 8,632 7,920 8,935 9,283 9,429
      
Adjusted EBITDA11,445 1,262 1,170 1,166 1,312
EBITDA 1,348 1,146 1,046 1,134 1,187
      
Adjusted operating profit (EBIT)1957 791 650 617 773
Operating profit (EBIT) 846 657 304 290 476
Financial income and expense (104) (133) (174) (125) (144)
Income tax expense (115) (89) (68) (7) (76)
Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures 1,154 194 30 (59) 13
      
Profit for the year 1,781 629 92 99 269
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 12 8 4 (46) (2)
      
Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 1,769 621 88 145 271
Dividend on cumulative preference shares (8) (4) (10) (10) (10)
      
Net profit available to holders of ordinary shares 1,761 617 78 135 261
      
      
Key figures and financial ratios      
Capital employed27,766 7,889 7,553 8,105 8,060
Capital expenditure:      
- Intangible assets and Property, plant and equipment 586 485 570 616 694
- Acquisitions 204 16 106 - 424
Disposals 1,546 87 307 93 78
Depreciation, amortization and impairments 502 489 742 798 730
Net debt (742) (2,070) (2,321) (2,420) (1,841)
Dividend 331 310 297 296 297
      
Workforce at 31 December, headcount 21,054 20,786 20,796 21,351 23,485
Employee benefits costs (x € million) 1,768 1,752 1,778 1,713 1,822
      
Financial ratios1     
- ROCE in % 12.3 10.4 8.2 7.8 9.6
- Net sales / average capital employed 1.11 1.04 1.13 1.17 1.18
- Current assets / current liabilities 2.44 1.58 1.62 1.21 1.49
- Equity / total assets 0.55 0.48 0.48 0.49 0.51
- Gearing (net debt / equity plus net debt) 0.10 0.25 0.29 0.29 0.23
- Adjusted EBIT / net sales in % 11.1 10.0 7.3 6.6 8.2
-Net profit / average Shareholders' equity available to holders
of ordinary shares in % 28.0 11.1 1.4 2.4 4.5
- Adjusted EBITDA / Financial income and expense 13.9 9.5 7.4 9.9 9.6
1In presenting and discussing DSM's financial position, operating results and cashflows, DSM uses certain Alternative performance measures (APMs) not defined by IFRS. These
APMs are used because they are an important measure of DSM's business development and DSM's management performance. A full reconciliation of IFRS performance measures
to the APMs is given in the 'Alternative performance measures' on page 165.
2Before reclassification to held for sale.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  238 www.dsm.comInformation about ordinary DSM shares
per ordinary share in € 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013
      
Adjusted Net profit 3.92 2.90 2.14 2.34 2.84
Net profit 10.07 3.52 0.45 0.78 1.52
Operating cash flow 5.65 5.79 3.93 4.62 5.74
      
Dividend: 1.8511.75 1.65 1.65 1.65
- Interim dividend 0.58 0.55 0.55 0.55 0.50
- Final dividend 1.27 1.20 1.10 1.10 1.15
      
Pay-out including dividend on cumulative preference shares as
% of Adjusted net profit 48 61 71 69 59
Dividend yield (dividend as % of average price of an ordinary
DSM share) 2.8 3.3 3.5 3.3 3.2
      
Share prices on Euronext Amsterdam (closing price):      
- Highest price 81.66 64.18 55.11 57.97 59.75
- Lowest price 57.20 41.40 39.62 44.44 43.93
- At 31 December 79.67 56.96 46.28 50.64 57.16
      
      
(x 1,000)      
Number of ordinary shares outstanding:      
- At 31 December 174,643 175,002 174,923 173,537 173,963
- Average 174,795 175,100 174,357 172,605 172,183
      
Daily trading volumes on Euronext Amsterdam:      
- Average 676 787 912 801 728
- Lowest 238 152 130 104 95
- Highest 2,110 2,554 4,506 7,981 3,049
1Subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders.DSM figures: five-year summary
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  239 www.dsm.comPEOPLE
Brighter Living Solutions
See Planet - Brighter Living Solutions.
Eubiotics
The general term 'Eubiotics', is related to the Greek term
'Eubiosis' and relates to feed ingredients that support an
optimal balance of microbiota in the gastrointestinal tract of
livestock animals. They promote efficient gut performance so
as to produce well-nourished animals that get the most from
their feed, while at the same time sustaining their health and
welfare and protecting the environment.
Frequency Index (FI)
The Frequency Index is a way to measure safety performance.
The number of accidents of a particular category per 100
employees per year.
Inclusion Index
The Inclusion Index is a subset of items in the Employee
Engagement (Pulse) Survey to specifically measure Inclusion.
Inclusion is: "A working environment where all employees are
a full and equal member of a team; where diverse perspectives
are valued, and investment is made in their development;
where people are respected and able to contribute as they are
and not having to conform; where they can reach their
potential, and where they can speak up without fear of
retribution".
LWC-rate DSM own
The LWC-rate DSM own is the number of lost workday cases
per 100 DSM employees in the past 12 months: 
LWC-rate = 100 * (number of LWCs (past 12 months) /
average effective manpower (past 12 months)).
Occupational Health Case
This refers to any abnormal condition or disorder requiring
medical treatment – other than one resulting directly from an
accident – caused by, or mainly caused by, repeated exposure
to work-related factors.
PSI rate
The PSI rate is the number of process safety incidents per 100
DSM employees and contractor employees in the past 12
months: PSI rate = 100 * (number of PSIs (past 12 months) /
average effective manpower including contractor employees
(past 12 months)).
REC-rate DSM all
The REC-rate DSM all is the number of recordable injuries per
100 DSM employees and contractor employees in the past 12
months: REC-rate = 100 * (number of RECs (past 12 months) /average effective manpower including contractor employees
(past 12 months)).
Safety, Health and Environment (SHE)
DSM's policy is to maintain business activities and produce
products that do not adversely affect safety or health, and that
fit with the concept of sustainable development. The company
does this by setting the following objectives: to provide an
injury-free and incident-free workplace; to prevent all work-
related disabilities or health problems; to control and minimize
the risks associated with DSM's products for their whole life
cycle and to choose production processes and products such
that the use of raw materials and energy is minimized; to
evaluate and improve DSM's practices, processes and
products continuously in order to make them safe and
acceptable to its employees, the customers, the public and
the environment.
United Nations Global Compact
A strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed
to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally
accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor,
environment and anti-corruption.
United Nations' Universal Declaration of Human Rights
On 10 December 1948, the General Assembly of the United
Nations adopted and proclaimed the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights. Following this historic act, the Assembly called
upon all Member countries to publicize the text of the
Declaration and "to cause it to be disseminated, displayed,
read and expounded principally in schools and other
educational institutions, without distinction based on the
political status of countries or territories".
PLANET
Biofuel
A fuel which is derived from renewable organic resources, as
distinct from one which is derived from non-renewable
resources such as crude oil and natural gas.
Brighter Living Solutions
Brighter Living Solutions (BLS) are products and services that,
when considered over the product life cycle, offer an
environmental benefit (ECO+) and/or a social benefit
(People+) compared to mainstream reference solutions.
ECO+ qualifications are made based on comparative Eco Life
Cycle Assessment (LCA). DSM is using the standard approach
to evaluate environmental footprint as published by the
WBCSD Chemical sector in 2014. Qualifications are also
made based on documented expert opinion by business
managers or relevant internal experts based on identifiedExplanation of some concepts and
ratios
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  240 www.dsm.commainstream reference solutions and identified environmental
differentiators.
The People+ qualifications are made based on DSM People
LCA method or expert opinions, similar as for ECO+. The
People LCA method helps to identify social impacts of
products on the dimensions health, comfort and well-being,
working conditions, and community development, it is a
methodology developed by DSM based on internal standards
and external stakeholder dialogues.
More information and definitions can be found on the company
website.
Carbon footprint
The total set of direct and indirect greenhouse-gas emissions
expressed as CO 2eq.
Carbon price
The price that is paid to emit one ton CO 2eq into the
atmosphere. DSM implements an internal carbon price of
€ 
50/t CO 2eq.
Circular economy
Circular economy refers to an economy that is restorative and
in which materials flows are of two types: biological nutrients,
designed to re-enter the biosphere safely, and technical
nutrients, which are designed to circulate at high quality
without entering the biosphere throughout their entire lifecycle.
CO2
Carbon dioxide, a gas that naturally occurs in the atmosphere.
It is part of the natural carbon cycle through photosynthesis
and respiration. It is also generated as a by-product of
combustion. Carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas.
Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD)
COD is an indicator of the degree of pollution of waste water
by organic substances.
Eco-efficiency
Eco-efficiency is a concept (created in 1992 by the WBCSD)
that refers to the creation of more goods and services while
using less resources and creating less waste and pollution
throughout their entire life cycle. In the context of DSM's SHE
targets, eco-efficiency relates specifically to the reduction of
emissions and energy and water consumption, relative to the
production volumes of DSM's plants.
Greenhouse-gas emissions (GHGE)
Scope 1: Direct GHG emissions 
Direct GHG emissions occur from sources that are owned or
controlled by the company (i.e. emissions from combustion in
owned or controlled boilers, furnaces, vehicles, etc.).Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions
Indirect GHG emissions relate to the generation of purchased
energy (i.e. electricity, heat or cooling) consumed by the
company. Purchased energy is defined as energy that is
purchased or otherwise brought into the organizational
boundary of the company. Scope 2 emissions physically occur
at the facility where the energy is generated.
Scope 3: Value chain emissions
Scope 3 emissions are all indirect emissions (not included in
scope 2) that occur in the value chain of the reporting
company, including both upstream and downstream
emissions.
Location-based emissions 
Reflects the average GHG emissions intensity of grids on
which electricity consumption occurs (using mostly national
grid-average emission factor data). Corresponding emission
factor: in most cases, the country emission factor.
Market-based emissions 
Reflects GHG emissions from electricity supplies that
companies have purposely chosen (or their lack of choice) and
contracted. Corresponding emission factors:
-
supplier specific emission factor (provided by the supplier)
- residual emission factor (country based grid factor,
corrected for allocated purchased electricity from renewable
resources)
Greenhouse-gas emissions (GHGE) efficiency improvement
The GHGE efficiency improvement is the amount of GHG
emissions per unit of output (specific emissions) in a given year
compared to the specific emissions in the prior year. GHGE
efficiency improvements are one of the ratios in the Long-Term
Incentive part of the Managing Board remuneration and relate
to a three-year period.
GRI
The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) has developed
Sustainability Reporting Guidelines that strive to increase the
transparency and accountability of economic, environmental,
and social performance. The GRI was established in 1997 in
partnership with the UN Environment Programme. It is an
international, multi-stakeholder and independent institution
whose mission is to develop and disseminate globally
applicable Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. These
Guidelines are for voluntary use by organizations for reporting
on the economic, environmental, and social dimensions of
their activities, products and services.
Levelized Cost of Energy (LCOE)
LCOE is a figure used to compare the average cost of energy
coming from different sources. It measures the cost of energy
production over the lifetime of an asset like a photovoltaic
panel.Explanation of some concepts and ratios
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  241 www.dsm.comLoss of Primary Containment (LOPC)
Loss of Primary Containment is an unplanned or uncontrolled
release of material from the container that is in direct contact
with the material.
NOx 
Nitrogen oxides. These gases are released mainly during
combustion and cause acidification.
Renewable resource
A natural resource which is replenished by natural processes
at a rate comparable to, or faster than, its rate of consumption
by humans or other users. The term covers perpetual
resources such as solar radiation, tides, winds and
hydroelectricity as well as fuels derived from organic matter
(bio-based fuels).
SO2
Sulfur dioxide. This gas is formed during the combustion of
fossil fuels and causes acidification.
VOC
Volatile organic compounds. The term covers a wide range of
chemical compounds, such as organic solvents, some of
which can be harmful.
Water use and water consumption
Water use includes water used for 'once-through cooling' that
is returned to the original water source after use. Water
consumption is the portion of water used that is not returned
to the original water source after being withdrawn.
PROFIT
General
In calculating financial profitability ratios, use is made of the
average of the opening and closing values of balance sheet
items in the year under review.
The financial indicators per ordinary share are calculated on
the basis of the average number of ordinary shares
outstanding (average daily number). In calculating
Shareholders' equity per ordinary share, however, the number
of shares outstanding at year-end is used.
In calculating the figures per ordinary share and the 'net profit
as a percentage of average Shareholders' equity available to
holders of ordinary shares', the amounts available to the
holders of cumulative preference shares are deducted from
the profits and from Shareholders' equity.
Capital employed
The total of the carrying amount of intangible assets and
property, plant and equipment, inventories, trade receivables
and other receivables, less trade payables and other current
liabilities.Capital expenditure
This includes all investments in intangible assets and property,
plant and equipment as well as the acquisition of subsidiaries
and associates and related cash flows.
Disposals
This includes the disposal of intangible assets and property,
plant and equipment as well as the disposal of participating
interests and other securities.
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization
(EBITDA)
EBITDA is the sum of operating profit plus depreciation and
amortization. Adjusted EBITDA is the EBITDA adjusted for
material items of profit or loss coming from acquisitions/
divestments, restructuring and other circumstances that
management deem it necessary to adjust in order to provide
clear-reporting on the underlying developments of the
business.
Earnings per ordinary share
Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V.
minus dividend on cumulative preference shares, divided by
the average number of ordinary shares outstanding.
High-growth economies
High-growth economies relate to the following regions: Latin
America, Middle East, Asia (excluding Japan) and Eastern
Europe.
Innovation sales
Innovation sales are defined as sales from products and
applications that have been introduced in the last five years.
Operating working capital
The total of inventories and trade receivables, less trade
payables.
Organic sales growth
Organic sales growth is the total impact of volume and price /
mix. Impact of acquisitions and divestments as well as
currency impact are excluded.
Return on capital employed (ROCE)
Adjusted operating profit from continuing operations as a
percentage of weighted average capital employed.
Total shareholder return (TSR)
Total shareholder return is capital gain plus dividend paid.
Working capital
The total of inventories and current receivables, less current
payables.
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  242 www.dsm.comADR American Depositary Receipts
AFM The Dutch Authority for the Financial Markets
API Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients
APM Alternative performance measures
BRA Business Risk Assessment
CDP The new name for the Carbon Disclosure Project
CEFIC Conseil Européen des Fédérations de l'Industrie Chimique
(European Chemical Industry Council)
CGU Cash Generating Unit
COA Corporate Operational Audit department
CoBC Code of Business Conduct
COD Chemical Oxygen Demand
CPLC Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition
CRA Corporate Risk Assessment
CRP Corporate Research Program
CSD Corporate Strategy Dialogue
CSR Corporate Social Responsibility
DHA Docosahexaenoic acid
DNP DSM Nutritional Products
DSGC Dutch Sustainable Growth Coalition
DSP DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals
EBA Emerging Business Area
EBIT Earnings before interest and taxes (Operating Profit)
EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation andamortization
EEI Energy Efficiency Improvement
EPA Eicosapentaenoic Acid
EPS Earnings per share
FIFO First in, first out
FTE Full-time equivalent
FX Foreign exchange
GHG Greenhouse gas
GHGE Greenhouse-gas emissions
GMM Genetically Modified Micro-organisms
GRI Global Reporting Initiative
IAS International Accounting Standards
IASB International Accounting Standards Board
IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee
IFRS International Financial Reporting StandardsILO International Labour Organization
IP Intellectual Property
IPO Initial Public Offering
LCA Life Cycle Assessment
LoR Letter of Representation
LTI Long-Term Incentive
LWC Lost Workday Case
NGO Non-Governmental Organization
NPS Net Promoter Score
OCI Other Comprehensive Income
OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
OEM Original Equipment Manufacturer
PA Polyamide
PDN Stichting Pensioenfonds DSM Nederland
PPA Purchase Price Allocation
PRA Process Risk Assessment
PSI Process Safety Incident
PV Photovoltaic
R&D Research & Development
REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction ofChemicals
ROCE Return on Capital Employed
SAR Share Appreciation Rights
SDG Sustainable Development Goal
SHE Safety, Health and Environment
SPF Sun Protection Factor
SSP Supplier Sustainability Program
STI Short-Term Incentive
SUN Scaling Up Nutrition Movement
TCFD Taskforce for Climate-related Financial Disclosures
TDC Total Direct Compensation
TSR Total Shareholder Return
UN United Nations
UNGC United Nations Global Compact
VOC Volatile Organic Compound
WBCSD World Business Council for Sustainable Development
WEF World Economic Forum
WFP United Nations World Food ProgrammeList of abbreviations
Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2017  243 www.dsm.comFor the printing of this Report 100% biological ink and FSC-paper was used. 
This Report is printed carbon neutral.Questions about or feedback on this Report can be addressed to:
Royal DSM
P.O. Box 65006401 JH HeerlenThe NetherlandsT +31 (0)45 578 8111E media.contacts@dsm.comW www.dsm.com
