Royal DSM Integrated 
Annual Report 2020
Creating brighter lives for all1 3 
4 Table of contents 
Key data  
Co-CEO letter  
Our approach to the Sustainable Development  
Goals  7 
12 
12 
14 
26 
41 
55 
68 
83 
91 
91 
103 
109 
115 
116 
117 
119 
119 
124 
124 
129 
133 
140 Report by the Managing Board 
Purpose 
Strategy 
Case stu dies 
Stakeholders 
Peop le 
Planet 
Profit 
Review of business     
Nutrition 
Materials 
Innovation 
Corporate Activities 
Reporting policies 
Non-fi nancial reporting policy 
Corporate governance and risk management 
Corporate
 governance 
Dutch C orporate Governance Code 
Governance framework 
DSM Code of Business C onduct 
Risk management 
What still went wrong in 2020 
Supervisory Board and Managing Board 
Royal DSM142 Statements of the Managing Board  144 
145 
146 
154 
169 Report by the Supervisory Board  
Supervisory Board Report  
Remuneration report
 2020  
Information on the DSM share  
Sustainability statements  174 
191 
191 
199 Consolidated financial statements  
Summary of significant accounting policies  
Consolidated financial statements  
Notes to the consolidated financial  
statements of Royal DSM  205 
Parent company financial statements  258 
Notes to the parent company financial  
statements260 
267 Other information  
Independent auditor’s report  267 
279 Assur ance report of the independent auditor  
Special statutory rights  284 
286 
289 DSM figures: five-y ear summary  
Explanation of some concepts and ratios  
List of abbreviations  296 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  2 Forward -looking statements  
This document may contain forward -looking statements with respect to DSM's future performance and position. Such statements are 
based on current expectations, estimates and projections by DSM and information currently available to the company. Examples of 
forward -looking statements include statements made or implied about t he company's strategy, estimates of sales growth, financial results, 
cost savings and future developments in its existing businesses as well as the impact of future acquisitions, and the company 's financial 
position. These statements can be management estimates based on information provided by specialized agencies or advisors.  
DSM cautions readers that such statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict and therefore it should be 
understood that many factors can cause the company's actual performance and position to differ materially from these statements. These 
factors include, but are not limited to, macro -economic, market and business trends and conditions, competition, legal claims, the 
company's ability to protect intellectual property, changes in legislation, changes in exchange and interest rates, changes in tax rates, 
pension costs, raw material and energy prices, employee costs, the implementation of the company's strategy, the company's ab ility to 
identify and complete acquisitions and to successfully integrate acquired companies, the company's ability to realize planned divestments, savings, restructuring or benefits, the company's ability to identify, develop and successfully commercialize new products, markets or technologies, economic and/or political changes and other developments in  countries and markets in which DSM operates. 
Additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those described in the forward- looking statements can be found in the 
'Risk Management' section . 
As a result, DSM's actual future performanc e, position and/or financial results may differ materially from the plans, goals and expectations 
set forth in such forward -looking statements. DSM has no obligation to update the statements contained in this document, unless 
required by law. The English -language version of this document is leading.  Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  3 Key data
Key d
ata1 
2020  2019 
People    
Workforce at 31 December (headcount)  23,127  22,174  
Female:male ratio2 29:71 28:72  
Total employee benefit costs (in € million)  1,848  1,811 
Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries (per 100 DSM employees and contractor employees)  0.24 0.28 
Employee Engagement Index (in %)  76 74 
Planet  
Primary energy use (in PJ)  21.5 21.2 
Energy Efficiency Improvement (in %, year -on-year)  5.7 2.3 
Greenhouse gas emissions, market -based (scope 1 + 2, in CO 2 equivalents, x million tons) 1.2 1.2 
Greenhouse gas scope 1 + 2 cumulative absolute reduction (in %, baseline 2016) 25 25 
Water consumption (x million m3) 24 23 
Brighter Living Solutions (as % of running business)  63 63 
Profit (in € million)  
Net sales from continuing operations  8,106  7,998  
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations3 1,534  1,551 
EBITDA from continuing operations  1,368  1,457 
Adjusted operating profit from continuing operations (EBIT)3 929 989 
Operating profit from continuing operations (EBIT)  662 872 
Net profit for the year  508 764 
Adjusted net operating free cash flow3 955 801 
Capital expenditure, cash based  585 609 
Dividend for DSM shareholders (based on profit appropriation)  420⁴ 425 
Net debt  2,577 1,144 
Shareholders' equity  7,399  7,731 
Total assets  14,364  13,443  
Capital employed  10,560  9,311 
Market capitalization at 31 December5 25,545  21,063  
Per ordinary share in €  
Net earnings  2.91 4.27 
Dividend  2.40⁴  2.40 
Financial ratios (%)  
Sales to high -growth economies / net sales (continuing operations)  44 45 
Innovation sales / net sales (continuing operations)  20 21 
Adjusted EBITDA margin (continuing operations)3 18.9 19.4 
Average working capital / annualized net sales (continuing operations)  22.3 21.2 
ROCE (continuing operations)3 10.4 12.3 
Gearing (net debt / equity plus net debt)  25.6 12.7 
Equity / total assets  52.1 58.3 
Cash provided by operating activities / Adjusted EBITDA3 90.5 82.2 
1 For definitions, see Explanation of some concepts and ratios . 
2 For the indexes based on age, nationalities, gender, inflow and outflow, the companies that are not integrated into the HR sy stems 
(approx. 6% of the total workforce) are not taken into accou nt. 
3 In presenting and discussing DSM ’s financial position, operating  results and cash flows, DSM (like many other publicly 
listed  companies) uses certain Alternative performance measures  (APMs) not defined by IFRS and referred to as ‘Adjusted ’. These 
APMs are used because  they are an important measure of DSM ’s business development  and DSM ’s management performance. A full 
reconciliation of  IFRS performance measures to the APMs is given in the Alternative performance measures . 
4 Subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders.  
5 Source: Bloomberg.  Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  4 Co-CEO letter  
Dear R ea der, 
What a journey i t has been s i nce we started a s Co-CEOs in February ! Never coul d we have imagine d such a first ye a r in o ur 
new role , but looking b a ck we are very g rateful a nd pr oud o f how ev eryone at D S M stepped u p to th e challenge of coping 
with t he COVID -19 pandemic. Despite t h is worldwide c risis, we st o od by o ur customers a t a ll times, d elivered s o lid f inancial 
results an d made i m portant s teps on ou r st rategic j ourney. Y et what s t ands ou t most, an d will h e lp u s going f or ward, i s 
how v ividly w e all ex p erienced t he importance of  ou r l o ng -standing c ompany c u lture, o ur va lues a nchored i n ou r Tr i ple-P 
b
ottom li ne ambition ( People, Planet, Pr o fit) a nd being a p urpose -led, p erformance- d riven company. This i s what g ave us 
courage, ac r oss D SM, to act q u ickly an d do the r ight t hings in the se most un usual o f circumstan ces.  
Swift response t o COVID- 19 pandemic 
The safety, h ealth and w e ll-being o f our em ployees a nd partners is al w ays ou r first p riority. S o when C OVID -19 first 
emerged, w e responded s wiftly w ith a r ange of measures i n cluding preemptive travel r estrictions, workin g from h o me 
wh
ere p ossible, digitalizing i nternal and external m e etings, and intensifyin g hygiene and s afety p rotocols. W e ensured t h at 
our people and p artners wer e safe, we kept our fa cilities a nd supply chain s running , and we continued t o  serve o ur 
customers
, reacting decisively in the spirit of ‘One DSM’. These efforts have not gone unnoticed: our overall Net Promoter 
Score (NPS), which we use to track customer satisfacti on, has reached an  all-time high o f +50. 
For our Materia ls businesses that we re most impacted b y the lo ckdowns, swi ft actions were t a ken to manage d own costs. 
At the same time, true to our spirit as a purpose -led company, DSM teams app lied their scientif ic know-h ow, innovation 
capabilities 
and resources to help fight  COVID-1 9 through various global and local initiatives. We learned how to produce 
v
iral testin g equipment such a s n ose swa b s , face m asks and d isinfectant to help ad d ress l ocal s h ortages, a nd distribut ed 
im
munity- optim izin g dietary s upplements to a ll our em p loyees, t heir f amilies, local f ront-line workers a nd lo cal 
communities.  
“We 
remained d etermined t o keep d elivering f or our customers, 
something t hat would no t have been possible without t he passion, 
resourcefulne ss and c ommitment o f our ex ceptional colleagues.”
Solid 2 020 f inancial p erformance  
We delivered a s o lid full year financial p erformance in a ch a llenging C OVID -19 en vironment, l ed by good r esults i n 
Nutrition an d a strong r e covery i n Materials i n the fou rth q uarter of t he ye ar. On a continui n g operations basis, o ur gr oup 
sales w ere up 1 % and Adjusted E BITDA wa s down 1%. Nutritio n sales were up 6%, an d Adjusted EB I TDA was up 7% despite 
s
ignificant n egative foreign ex change effects . Materials saw a d ecline i n sales and Adjusted  EBITDA of 13% and 27% 
respectively . And we realized an A djusted Net O perating F ree Cash F low from c ontinuing a nd discon tinued o perations of 
€9
55 million , up 1 9%.  
Co-CEO letter  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  5 Overall , COVID -1 9 had a slightly negative effect on our sales (including Resins)  as Materials saw a ne gative sales impact of 
around 10% on volumes in the year, due to reduced global demand in the second and third quarter . Nutrition saw an 
overall slightly positive sales impact from COVID -19, mainly due to very strong demand in Human Nutrition for immunity 
optimizing products.    
Progress on People and Planet targets  
On People , we saw a further improvement in the Frequency Index of DSM Recordable Injuries to 0.24 from 0.28 in 2019, 
achieving our target level of 0.25. We continue to strive to make our company fully incident - and injury -free. It was also 
encouraging to see that in such a challenging year we had a  notable increase in E mployee Engagement  results (from 74% 
to 76%) .  And with regard to Inclusion & Diversity, the Executive Committee is now 57% female, the  Supervisory Board is 
42% female , and progress  was made on improving the representation of women (21% female executives) and under -
represented nationalities on executive  level  (30%). In order to increase further ou r focus on creating a work environment 
that works for all and drives our success, much was done in 2020, including crafting a new People & Organization Strategy, 
launching our Culture Compass, introducing a broader Inclusion & Diversity agenda includ ing pillars on generations, 
disability and LGBTQ+,  supported by several Employee Resource Groups, and encouraging a dialogue on hybrid workplaces 
post-pandemic as well as piloting new technology for career development .   
On Planet, w e are well on track with respect to our greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction, energy efficiency  and purchased 
renewable electricity targets . We signed  two new renewable energy Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) , covering 
approximately 25% of our current total annual electricity consumption  and putting us firmly on course to achieve our 
target of 75%  electricity from renewable resources. This progress supports our commitment  to a long -term pathway to work 
toward net -zero GHG emissions across our operations and value chains by 2050 . We are also proud to have received 
an A rating for o ur climate change strategy and an A - for our water stewardship from CDP, the non -profit global 
environmental disclosure platform.  
In 2020, 63 % of our sales  (including Resins), came from products that have a better environmental and/or social impact 
than mainstream solutions . We call these our Brighter Living Solutions.  Delivering value in all respects, including 
environmental and social positive impact, remains at the core of our innovation pipeline and is well aligned with customer aspirations.  
“We continued to make good p rogress on the execution of our long -
term strategic plan and delivering against our purpose-led 
sustainability ambitions in People and P lanet.”  
Maintaining our growth strateg y focus ed on Nutrition, Health and Sustainable Living  
Our long-term strateg ic foc us remains on Nutrition, Health and Sustainable Living. Our strategy  aligns our unique 
competences and our purpose (‘ creating brighter lives for a ll’) with our ambitions to address specific megatrends and 
targeted Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The world faces increasing challenges , and COVID -19 has demonstrated 
more than ever  the importance of addressing these through the power of science and innovation. Our expertise is in  the 
science of how nutritional ingredients can ensure better general  health  for people and animals (‘Health through nutrition’) 
as well as in how to enhance the health of the planet through sustainab ly produced food  along with more circular and bio -
based materials.  
During 2020, we made good progress on our long -term strategic plan. We executed two change programs, ‘Agility to Grow’ 
and ‘Fit for Growth’, to support profitable growth through process simplification and improved alignment with market needs . We also enhanc ed our platform -based approach to driving innovation,  resulting in a healthy pipeline  of exciting 
new products and solutions such as Bovaer®, our feed additive proven to cut  ruminant methane emissions  by 30%, 
Veramaris® our algal -based omega -3, and fermen tative Stevia through our  Avansya partnership with Cargill . We completed 
three important acquisitions , namely CSK in Food Specialties , Glycom in Early Life Nutrition and the Erber businesses 
Biomin and Romer Labs in Animal and Human Nutrition, for a combin ed value of €1.7 billion. And in September, we  R
oyal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  6 Co-CEO l etter 
announced t he divestment o f our Resins & F unctional Materials business and a ssociated b usiness to C ovestro AG, a 
transaction we expect to c lose i n the first half o f 2021.   
We are commit ted to d eliver against current p erformance expectations  while at t he same time building t he company for 
the future . So going f orward , while ensuring t he effective integration  of recen t acquisitions and the scaling of innovations, 
we will also s tart expanding our capabilities in Nutrition in the ar eas of Precision & P ersonalization, e specially t hrough 
enhanced digital and bioscience s competencies. A nd to support  these developments w e will also make further 
adjustments t o our or ganization , including hav ing the r ight organizational culture to em brace this n ext p hase. 
Our Culture guided u s through t he storm 
When n othing i s ‘as usual’ an d new an swers ar e needed f ast, t he true c ulture o f an organizatio n comes t o life, a nd this 
unprecedented y ear 2 020 s howed u s the strengt h of ou r DSM culture. A nchored in our long h istory as a purpos e-led 
company and ou r Triple P b ottom l ine a mbitions d ating b ack t o 2002 , our values en abled everyone in t he company t o take 
responsibility and a ct fast, with safety as the top priority, l iving out a caring, c ourageous a nd collaborative s pirit t hat 
quickly  picked u p the internal  hashtag ‘ #Together w e stand s trong’.  
Thank  you 
We are incredibly grateful for the great company a nd purpose-l ed cultural legac y tha t we inherited from our predecessor 
Feike Sijbesma, a legacy  linked to his am azing 30-y ear career in DSM, and in particu lar his 13-y ear tenure as C EO. And o ur 
final w ords ar e: Thank you! T o our c olleagues, t hank  you for your c ourage, y our collaboration an d your caring , whic h have 
been w ithout measure through this i ncredibly c hallenging y ear, and y ou can be proud o f how we held our course, a ll 
together. T o our cu stomers, s uppliers a nd all those that t rusted u s to deliver ev en in the toughest o f circumstances. And to 
our s hareholders , for their ongoing tr ust and lo yalty.  
Stay s afe an d stay h ealthy! 
Geraldine Matche tt and Dimitri d e Vreeze, C o-CEOs Royal DSM 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  7 Our approach to the  Sustainable Development Goals  
The UN Global Goals for Sustainable Development (SDGs)  
In 2016, the United Nations launched the SDGs, a roadmap to a more  
environmentally and socially conscious and responsible world by 2030.  
At DSM, we believe that companies have a key role to play in achieving  
the SDGs. We believe that our combination of Health, Nutrition and 
Sustainable Living contributes toward achieving the SDGs  
Working on the SDGs through our Focus D omains  
With our unique science-based competences , we have created a strong platform for growth and are ideally positioned to 
contribute to, and capture the growth opportunities offered by, the global megatrends and SDGs, with a particular focus on 
developing innovative solutions addressing  our Focus Domains of Nutrition & Health, Climate & Energy , and Resources & 
Circularity.  Our purpose -led, performance- driven strategy is based on the global megatrends and SDGs.  
Our Brighter Living Agenda brings together many of our initiatives and creates an actionable framework. It comprises  three 
pillars:  
-Improve : we improve our own operations to do no harm. We optimize our own operational impact by continually
raising safety standards, promoting health and well -being in our own workforce, reducing our emissions, increasing
our use of renewable energy and unlocking more value from limited resources
-Enable : we enable our customers to have a positive impact by creating products an d services that enable our
customers and partners to deliver sustainable and healthy solutions for the planet and society
-Advocate : we advocate in our ecosystem for systemic change — we advocate for the future we believe in and we fully
accept our responsibilities as a corporate member of society
Our
 purpose and three Focus Domains align most closely with five of the SDGs, and we show here how we approach these 
core SDGs. Information about our engagements can be found in the Sustainability statements  and throughout this Report.  
SDG 2 and SDG 3 through Nutrition & Health  
The li
nk between adequate nutrition and health has never been clearer. For the fi rst time in human history, diet -related 
non-communicable diseases (including diabetes, heart disease, stroke, and some cancers) have overtaken communicable 
diseases as the primary cause of deaths worldwide. At the same time, malnutrition in its various forms affects more than 
30% of the world’s population: more than 2.3 billion adults and children are obese or overweight, more than  820 million 
people go to bed hungry each night, and approximately two billion suffer from hidden hunger.  
Our Nutrition & Health Commitments  
-Together with the United Nations World Food Programme, we will raise awareness  of improved nutrition while
continu ing to develop new food solutions
-We take responsibility to control and minimize all possible safety risks and adverse effects that could be caused by
(the substances present in) our products throughout the value chain
-Together with Generation Unlimited and Sight and Life Foundation , we will develop a business plan in Africa to reach
one million smallholder farmers by transforming the food system, providing better nutrition, stimulating youth job
creation and reducing reliance on food imports
Our approach to the Sustainable Development Goals  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  8 The Brighter Living Agenda for Nutrition & Health  
Improve  Enable  Advocate  
By reducing occupational safety 
incidents  and promotin g health 
and well -being  in our own 
workforce . By enabling healthy diets for all , 
through solutions such as  the 
sustainable production of animal 
proteins , plant -based choices , 
immunity- supporting solutions , and 
food & beverage solutions .  
Our biomedical solutions  improve 
quality of life for surgical patients  
and improve people’s health stat us. For healthy diets within planetary 
boundaries, in partnerships to 
address sustainable and healthy 
nutrition through partners such as 
the World Business Council for 
Sustainable Development’s FReSH 
program  and the World Economic 
Forum , and in  partnerships to fight 
malnutrition , such as the UN World 
Food Programme , UNICEF , World 
Vision  and Scaling Up Nutrition . 
Contributing to the Sustainable Development Goals  
Our Nutrition & Health F ocus Domain links to the following SDG targets:  
-Target 2.1  By 2030, end hunger and ensure access by all people, in particular the poor and people in vulnerable
situations, including infants, to safe, nutritious and sufficient food a ll year round
-Target 2.2  By 2030, end all forms of malnutrition, including achieving, by 2025, the internationally agreed targets on
stunting and wasting in children under 5 years of age, and address the nutritional needs of adolescent girls,pregnant and lactating women and older persons
-Target 3.2  By 2030, end preventable deaths of newborns and children under 5 years of age, with all countries aiming
to reduce neonatal mortality to at least as low as 12 per 1,000 live births and under -5 mortality to at least as low as
25 per 1,000 live births
-Targe t 3.4 By 2030, reduce by one -third premature mortality from non -communicable diseases through prevention
and treatment and promote mental health and well- being
-Target 3.9  By 2030, substantially reduce the number of deaths and illnesses from hazardous chemi cals and air, water
and soil pollution and contamination
SDG 7 and SDG 13 through Climate & Energy 
Th
e stability of the world’s climate is under threat. We believe there is an urgent need to take action to curb climate 
change and its irreversibly d amaging effects on biodiversity by dramatically limiting greenhouse gas emissions, 
transitioning to renewable energy, and adopting low -carbon emission solutions and processes.  
The transition to a low -carbon economy will also create business opportunities a nd drive growth for our innovative and 
sustainable solutions. We are enabling the development of a low -carbon economy not just by reducing our own emissions 
but also by developing solutions to help customers and consumers to cut theirs.  
Our Climate & Energ y Commitments  
-Our Science Based Targets comprising a scope 1 + 2 absolute reduction of 30% and a scope 3 intensity reduction of28% by 2030 versus baseline 2016 toward our net zero emissions by 2050 commitment
-Supporting targets of an average annual energy efficiency improvement of >1% and 75% purchased electricity from
renewable sources by 2030
Our approach to the Sustainable Development Goals  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  9 -We apply an internal carbon price of €50/t CO 2eq on our key investments, acquisitions and in our management
reporting
The Brighter Living Agenda for Climate &  Energy  
Improve  Enable  Advocate  
Our long -term go a l  is net-zero 
emissions by 2 0 50. T o put us on 
track t o ac hieve this, b y 20 30 w e 
will reduce our o wn ca rbon 
footprint and i mprove the resiliency 
of our assets and su ppl y chains . 
Our ap p roach t o resiliency an d 
adaptation, i ncluding p hysical an d 
transition risk assessments, is 
summarized in Taskforce on  
C
limate -related F inancial 
Disclosures (TCFD) . By enabling the low -carbon 
economy through solutions that 
help customers cut emissions and improve society’s ability to adapt to climate change. These include improving the 
sustainability of 
animal farm ing and engineering 
solutions for mobility  and solutions 
for renewable energy . For climate action and building the 
movement for a lo w-carbon, 
resilient economy  through cross 
domain initiatives such as the World 
Economic Forum  and World 
Business Council for Sustainable 
Development , and leading climate 
platforms suc h as the Carbon 
Pricing Leadership Coalition , RE100  
and GCA. 
Contributing to the Sustainable Development Goals  
-Target 7.2  By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix
-Target 7.3  By 2030, double the global rate of improvement in energy efficiency
-Target 13.2  Integrate climate change measures into national policies, strategies and pla nning
-Target 13.3  Improve education, awareness -raising and human and institutional capacity on climate change
mitigation , adaptation, impact reduction and early warning
SDG 12 through Resources & Circularity  
The
 world’s resources are finite, and with a  population projected to grow to 9. 7 billion  people by 20501, some estimates 
suggest we will need the equivalent of four Planet Earths by then to sustain our current lifestyles2. In addition, over 30% of 
all food produced either lost or wasted, representing a huge drain on natural resources3. New ways of achieving a balance 
between demand and supply have to be found, including approaches t hat are not based on single use and subsequent 
disposal. We are making important contributions to the development of a genuinely circular, bio- based economy founded 
on closed -loop solutions.  
Our Resources & Circularity Commitments  
-We will offer a full portfolio of alternatives that contain at least 25% recycled - and/or bio -based content by 2030  in
our Engineering Materials business
-Sixty percent of the feedstock used in our Dyneema products will be bio -based by 2030
-‘Safe by design’ is the leading principle in the development of new and better products and processes
-Eighty to ninety percent of our waste will be recycled by 2020
-We will at least maintain our water efficiency while we work toward defining a context -based water target
-We will improve our VOC emission efficiency by 50% by 2021 (vs. 2015)
1 Source: UN 
2 Source: Accenture strategy research, 2017  
3 Source: FAO 
Our approach to the Sustainable Development Goals  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  10 The Brighter Living Agenda for Resources & Circularity  
Improve  Enable  Advocate  
By unlocking more value from the 
limited resources  that are available . 
Water security  and our impact on 
biodiversity  are important aspects 
of our continuous improvement 
mindset. We minimize the use of 
substances of high concern  where 
possible.  By enabling our customers to 
design safer and more circular end -
products , and minimize the use of 
finite resources . These include our 
joint ventures Veramaris  and 
Olatein , as well as bio -based and 
recycled -based solutions such as 
Akulon PA6  and bio-based 
Dyneema® . For the transition from a linear to a 
circular and bio -based economy  
through global platforms such as 
the World Business Council for 
Sustainable Development , and 
circular economy platforms such as 
Platform for Accelerating the 
Circular Economy , Circle Economy  
and the Ellen MacArthur 
Foundation . 
Contributing to the Sustainable Development Goals  
-Target 12.2  By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources
-Target 12.3  By 2030, halve per capita global food waste at the retail and consumer levels and reduce food losses
along production and supply chains, including post -harvest losses
-Target 12.4  By 2020, achieve the environmentally sound management of chemicals and all wastes throughout their
life cycle, in accordance with agreed international frameworks, and significantly reduce their release to air, waterand soil in order to minimize their adverse impacts on human health and the environment
-Target 12.5  By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse
Our contribution across the  SDGs  
Our purpose -led, performance driven strategy i s based on global megatrends and the SDGs. We align our approach of our 
Focus Domains with five ‘core’ SDGs: SDG 2 and SDG 3 through Nutrition & Health, SDG 7 and SDG 13  through Climate & 
Energy a nd SDG 12  through Resources & Circularity.  In addition to these  ‘core’ SDGs, we believe that we can  also Improve, 
Enable and Advocate to a varying extent across all the SDGs. Below we indicate our estimated contribution in respect of all 
the SDGs.  Our approach to the Sustainable Development Goals  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  11 Improve  Enable  Advocate  
1 No Poverty  ●● ● ●● 
2 Zero Hunger  ● ●●●  ●●●
3 Good Health and Well -Being  ●● ●●● ●●● 
4 Quality Education  ● ● ●● 
5 Gender Equality  ●● ● ●●●  
6 Clean Water and Sanitation  ● ●● ● 
7 Affordable and Clean Energy  ●●● ●●●  ●●●
8 Decent Work and Economic Growth  ●● ● ●● 
9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure  ● ●● ●● 
10 Reduced Inequalities  ●● ● ●● 
11 Sustainable Cities and Communities  ● ●● ●● 
12 Responsible Consumption and Production  ●● ●●● ●●●  
13 Climate Action  ●● ●● ●●●
14 Life Below Water  ● ●● ●● 
15 Life on Land  ● ●● ● 
16 Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions  ● ● ●● 
17 Partnerships for the Goals  ●● ●● ●●●
Improve: The impact within our own operations  
Enable: Products that enable our customers to deliver sustainable 
products for planet and society   
Advocate: Advocating for the future we believe in and acting on 
our responsibilities  Estimate of contribution  
●Minor
●● Moderate
●●●  MajorRoyal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  12 Report by the Managing Board  
Purpose  
For more than a decade, we have distinguished ourselves by embracing sustainability and providing value for all our 
stakeholders across the three dimensions of People, Planet and Profit. We have taken a decisive next step as a purpose -
led company , contributing  to a brighter world for all with our science -based solutions. Our purpose is therefore fully 
anchored in our long -term purpose- led, performance- driven  Strategy .  
Our purpose is to create brighter lives for all  
Businesses need to generate profitable growth while at the same time playing a positive role in the world.  
We use our bright science to deliver positive transformations  at scale for as many people as possible today and for 
generations to come, operating within the constraints of the world ’s finite resources. We aim to redefine how we live and 
work in order to create a fairer, more prosperous and more sustainable society.  
We aspire to be a company for all, creating value  for all our stakeholders — customers, employees, shareholders and  
society at large — and building a stronger legacy and a brighter future for generations to come.  
We are already reaching more than 2.51 billion people worldwide  
Acting on our purpose  
We make change happen in three ways:  
-Improve : we improve our own operations to do no harm ; we optimize our own operational impact by continually
raising safety standards, promoting health and well -being in our own workforce, reducing our emissions, increasing
our use of renewable energy and unlocking more value from limited r esources
-Enable : we enable our customers to have a positive impact by creating products and services that enable our
customers and partners to deliver sustainable and healthy solutions for the planet and society
-Advocate : we advocate in our ecosystem for systemic change; we advocate for the future we believe in and we fully
accept our responsibilities as a corporate member of society
1 Lives Reached is a measure of the number of consumers reached each year vi a products of customer and other third parties which 
contain DSM products and solutions. This estimate is based on key market insights relating to market share, usage patterns an d 
product composition. Mathematical modeling is used to eliminate double count ing. For more information, see Explanation of some 
concepts and ratios . 
Report by the Managing Board – Purpose  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  13 We recognize the growing influence of large companies in the global economy, and the increasing impact they are having 
on our world. With increased impact comes increased responsibility. The private sector as a whole needs to deliver value 
for all stakeholders — not just employees, customers and shareholders, but the world ’s communities and the individuals 
who l ive in them. We therefore take an integrated approach  to our responsibilities.  
During the course of 2020, by means of our integrated approach, w e implemented a range of  external and internal  
initiatives to further our purpose and make an impact at scale in our three  Focus Domains  Nutrition & Health, Climate & 
Energy , and Resources & Circularity  that most closely align with five of the Sustainable Development Goals . An overview of 
these  initiatives can be found in Our approach to the Sustainable Development Goals  and throughout this report . Examples 
of our purpose- led solutions  are provided  in the  case study  section . 
Like many of our employees around the world, our senior management had to rely heavily on online communication as a result of  the 
COVID -19 pandemic. This is how the vast majority of the DSM Executive Committee meetings took place in 2020 ( clockwise from top left ): 
Dimitri de Vreeze, Philip Eykerman, Geraldine Matchett, Chris Goppelsroeder, Helen Mets, Patricia Malarkey and Cristina Monteiro.  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  14 Strategy 
At a glance  
-+19% Adjusted net operating free cash flow growth versus 2019 and versus an average annual target of ~10%
--1% Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations versus 2019, with Nutrition +7% and Materials - 27%
-20% Innovation sales  (continuing operations), in line with our ambition of ~20%
-~18%1,2 GHG scope 1 + 2 reduction – cumulative structural improvement versus ~ 17% in 201 9 (baseline 2016)
-0.24 Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries versus 0.28 in 2019
-76% Employee Engagement Index versus 7 4% in 201 9
Long -term s trategy 
With our long -term stra tegy, we are  continuing our evolution as a purpose -led, science -based  company operating in the 
fields of Nutrition, Health and Sustainable Living. Our strong growth capacity is anchored in developing customer -centric, 
innovative solutions addressing Nutrit ion & Health, Climate  & Energy , and Resources & Circularity. At the same time, we are 
increasing  operational excellence, manag ing costs, and accelerat ing profit growth and cash generation. We will continue to 
make suitable acquisitions to strengthen and develop critical capabilities and to support organic growth, predominantly in 
Nutrition. 
In Nutrition , we focus on human nutrition & health ( specialty nutrition, nutritional ingredients, consumer -branded 
products , personalized nutrition), food & beverages (specialty food enzymes, cultures, probiotics, bio -preservation, 
hydrocolloids, sugar reduction, and savory taste solutions), personal care and aroma ingredients and animal nutrition & 
health (core vitamins, premix  solutions, and specialty feed additive solutions, including mycotoxin risk management 
solutions and diagnostics) . 
1       All data presented in People and Planet are subject to the non-financial reporting policy .  
2 In total, our absolute reduction of scope 1 + 2 greenhouse gas emissions was 25% versus the 2016 baseline.  
Report by the Managing Board – Strategy  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Re port 2020  15 In Materials , we will further develop into a resilient  high er-growth, high- margin specialty business, and  focus on three 
Sustainable Living g rowth -platforms  Improved Health & Living, Green Products & Applications, and New Mobility & 
Connectivity.  
By improving  the impact of our own operations, enabling sustainable solutions for our customers, and advocating  
sustainable business models, we make a positive contribution  toward achieving the Sustainable Development Goals  while 
at the same time supporting our growth and profitability and improving our risk profile.  
Mid-term t argets and ambitions   
We have set two ambitious targets for profit growth and cash generation to drive value creation  for the period 2019 –2021: 
-A high single -digit percentage annual increase in Adjusted EBITDA
-An average annual increase of about 10% in Adjusted net operating free cash flow
We a
re committed to mid -single -digit organic sales growth . Key drivers to deliver this sustained growth are innovation, 
commercial synergies from our recent acquisitions on top of our underlying market growth, and the expansion of  our 
customer -centric solution offerings.  
We will  continue to leverage our unique technology platforms  to develop innovative  and sustainable solutions in Nutrition 
& Health, Climate & Energy , and Resources & Circularity . We aim for  20% of our annual sales to come from innovation.  
The following table describes our mid -term 2019–2021 financial targets  and the ambitions that underpin them:  
1 Based on 2018 underlying business defined as Sales and Adjusted EBITDA corrected for our best estimate of the temporary vitamin 
effect. 
2 Adjusted net operating free cash flow is the cash flow from operating activities, corrected for the cash flow of the APM adju stments, 
minus the cash flow  of capital expenditure and drawing rights.  
Our
 cash allocation policy  remains unchanged and has a clear order of priority for cash deployment:  
-Disciplined capital expenditure for organic growth:  approximately  6.5% of annual sales
-A stable, preferably rising dividend
-Disciplined M&A, predominantly in Nutrition
-In the absence of value-creating M&A, capital to be returned to shareholders
We remain committed to maintaining a strong, investment- grade credit rating.  With our dividend policy  of a stable, 
preferably rising dividend, we target  an average payout of 40–50% of adjusted earnings.  
We will target M&A  predominantly in Nutrition, given this business ’s unique growth potential, resilience, strong leadership 
position and capacity  for value creation.  
Report by the Managing Board – Strategy  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Re port 2020  16 Focus Domains  
With our unique science-based competences, we have created a strong platform for growth  and are ideally positioned to 
capture the growth opportunities offered by the global megatrends and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) . In 
particular, we  focus on dev eloping innovative solutions centered on  Nutrition & Health, Climate & Energy , and Resources & 
Circularity.  
Nutrition & Health  
The link between adequate nutrition  and health has never been clearer.  Diet-related non -communicable diseases 
(including diabete s, heart disease, stroke, and some cancers ) have overtaken communicable diseases as the primary cause 
of deaths worldwide. At the same time, malnutrition  in its various forms affects more than 30% of the world ’s population : 
more than 2.3 billion adults and  children are obese or overweight1, more than 820 million people go  to bed hungry each 
night, and approximately two billion suffer from hidden hunger2.  
With the world ’s growing and ageing population, the cost s of healthcare systems as we know them today are becoming 
increasingly unsustainable for developed and developing countries alike.  
Furthermore, the animal protein industry, which produces the ani mal-source foods critical for a healthy  and balanced diet, 
is increasingly challenged to reduce its impact on the environment and to improve animal welfare, while at the same time 
driving down production costs.  
Individuals and societies need solutions tha t offer preventive and sustainable ‘health through nutrition’ , as well as 
solutions that enable  the creation of  an animal protein supply that can feed the world within planetary boundaries.  
The COVID -19 health crisis throws all of these needs into yet sha rper focus.  
Climate & Energy  
The stability of the world ’s climate is under threat. We have long believed there is an urgent need to take action to curb 
climate change and its irreversibly damaging effects by significantly limiting greenhouse gas emissions, transitioning to 
renewable energy, and adopting low -carbon emission solutions and processes. Partly as a result of the pandemic crisis in 
2020, there is also an increasing realization that f ood systems and the climate cr isis are intimately intertwined.  Not only 
are food systems responsible for approximately a quarter of all global emissions3, it is also the sector of the economy that 
will be affected the quickest everywhere. We are seeing already today the catastrophic impact of climate change on food production in many countries, leading to increased hunger and social instability, and this will only increase. Yet many innovations exist that can meaningfully reduce the climate impact of food production, and these need to be scal ed in an 
equitable way for both the farmers and consumers.  
The transition to a low-carbon economy  will also create business opportunities and drive growth for our innovative and 
sustainable solutions. We are enabling the  development of a  low-carbon  economy not just by reducing our own emissions 
but also by developing solutions to help customers and consumers to cut theirs.   
Resources & Circularity  
The world ’s resources are finite, and with a population projected to grow to 9. 7 billion people by 20504, some  estimates 
suggest we will need the equivalent of four P lanet Earths by then to sustain our current lifestyles. In addition, over 30% of 
all food produced is currently either lost or wasted, representing a huge drain on natural resources5. New  ways of 
achievin g a balance between demand and supply have to be found, including approaches that are not based on single use 
and subsequent disposal. We are making important contributions to the development  of a genuinely  circular, bio -based 
economy  founded on closed -loop solutions.  
1 Source: IFPRI  
2 Source: FAO  
3 Source: IPCC report 2019  
4 Source: UN 
5 Source: Good Nutrition: Perspectives for the 21st Century . Eggersdorfer M. et al. Karger, Basel 2016  Report by the Managing Board – Strategy  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Re port 2020  17 Nutrition  strategy  
Nutrition & Health builds on our unique ‘ global products, local solutions ’ business model. Our Nutrition & Health strategy 
focuses on strengthening and expanding this business model by further building our g lobal products portfolio and 
advancing our solution -selling capabilities in our end -market -focused segments. In addition , developments in biosciences 
and the broad adoption of digital ways of life are opening new opportunities to add a third area of innovation -based 
growth to our business model in  Precision & Personalization , a rapidly emerging market , in both Human and Animal  
Nutrition & Health . Overall, Nutrition & Health aims to mid- single -digit organic sales growth, an Adjusted EBITDA margin 
greater than 20%, and a high -single digit Adjusted EBITDA growth percentage.  
Our business model for growth: global products, local solutions, P recision & P ersonalization  
Th
e basis: our unique and successful business model – global products, local solutions  
With this business model, we have successfully built a unique, broad, highly integrated and profitabl e growth business that 
covers the food & beverages, specialty nutrition, animal feed and personal care end -markets. Our results are testament to 
the strength and uniqueness of this business model, delivering 6% organic growth and an increase in Adjusted EB ITDA 
margin from 17% to 21 % during the period 2015 –2020.   
Our globa l product portfolio , which includes vitamins, nutritional lipids, carotenoids, minerals, eubiotics, enzymes and 
yeasts, as well as texturants, flavors and cultures, has expanded through innovation and acquisitions. Most recent 
additions have been human milk oligosaccharides (HMOs) through the Glycom acquisition and mycotoxin absorbers and 
eubiotics through the acquisition of Erber Group . Bovaer® and our partnerships Avansya and Veramaris  have been added 
through our own innovation efforts.  
Our end-market focus  across all regions allows us to better understand market needs, enable solution selling , and open 
up innovation headroom  – for example, more relevant solutions supporting early life nutrition and dietary supplements in 
Human Nutrition & Health and supporting species such as poultry and swine in Animal Nutrition & Health. These capabilities are complemented by a diverse and significant premix footprint, with superior formulations and d elivery 
systems, meeting local needs for our customers.  
Report by the Managing Board – Strategy  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Re port 2020  18 Expanding  ou r business model : Precision & P ersonalization    
Consumer and customer -driven ‘Precision & Personalization ’ in the domains of both Human Nutrition & Health and 
Animal Nutrition & Health  is where we will expand our business model. Developments in data science & bioscience are 
opening up exciting new opportunities to address challenges in health and  nutrition. Ra pid advances in computational 
biology, gene technology, Artificial Intelligence and diagnostics are transforming our ability to understand and influence 
the interplay between health, nutrition and the environment in both human and animal biology at an indi vidual level.  
We see ‘ Precision’  as a rapidly emerging market in its own right, enabling our customers to meet consumer demand for 
better health through improved diets and at the same  time to produce food more sustainably, particularly in the animal 
space.  We are well positioned to take a leading role in this development. We are an established authority in the field of 
nutritional science and biotechnology, and through our trusted company b rand we have access to customers for and with 
whom we are already developing emerging Precision & Personalization solutions. This development also involves a natural 
evolution from delivering customized  premixes to enabling the creation of personalized nut ritional mixes. Building on 
these unique strengths, we will seek to work with an ecosystem of partners to create the appropriate digital solutions and interfaces. Offering leading solutions in this space allows us to leverage our unique nutritional science capabilities and 
multiply the relevance of our ingredients through unprecedented precision.  A good example is our new US -based 
personalized nutrition venture , Hologram Sciences , Inc., which bring s together all the necessary capabilities to develop 
end-to-end turnkey personalized nutrition solutions that are commercially validated with consumers . 
Our focus in Animal  Nutrition & Health  
Operating in alignment with the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals 2  (Zero Hunger ), 3 (Good Health and Well-Being ), 12 
(Responsible Consumption and Production ), 13 (Climate Action ), and 14  (Life Below Water) , we have identified six 
sustainability platforms  that address the major challenges facing the animal farming industry today. Our ambition is to 
lead a robust and achievable transformation worldwide, delivering innovative and sustainable solutions that will deliver 
significant value for our customers and at the same time for our company.  These are:  
-Improving the lifetime performance of farm animals
-Making efficient use of natural resources
-Reducing emissions from livestock
-Helping tackle antimicrobial resistance
-Reducing reliance on marine resources
-Improving the nutritional quality of meat, milk, fish and eggs, while reducing food loss and waste
With
 examples such as algal- based omega -3 for fish feed (Veramaris®), m ethane -reducing feed additives for cows 
(Bovaer®) , mycotoxin risk management  and our eubiotics portfolio, we are in the front line to address these challenges.  
In addition, we continue to build specialist compe tences  to pursue new health solutions and support  additional species, 
improve the end -to-end experience for the customer , and invest in our direct business -to-farmer and overall go-to -market 
capabilities. 
Our focus in Human Nutrition & Health  
In Human Nutrition & Health, we will continue to develop from the role of ingredient supplier to that of a fully integrated 
provider of solutions . We combine our products with third -party ingredients to create specialty solutions  for our 
customers that deliver specific health benefit claims, allowing our customers to focus fully on the branding and 
commercialization of their products. Key focus areas are: 
Preventive health and immunity.  COVID -19 has alerted the world to the importance of preventive health and especially 
immunity. Micronutrients ‒ such as vitamins C and D, omega -3s and probiotics , where we have leading positions  ‒ play a 
key role in supporting immunity. We are building on this consumer need by launching market -ready solutions such as 
AMPLI D . Furthermore, we are c ontinuing to invest in the business -to-consumer market to ensure the growth of our i-
Health  business. Report by the Managing Board – Strategy  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Re port 2020  19 Human milk oligosaccharides (HMOs).  We are building an exciting innovation roadmap for next -generation HMOs to meet 
currently unmet  needs in early life nutrition, dietary supplements, medical nutrition (e.g., to combat irritable bowel 
syndrome),  and food & beverages . HMOs also have interesting potential applications in pet foods, and these are being 
explored within the framework of ou r Animal Nutrition & Health business.  
Personalized nutrition:  Personalized nutrition is developing rapidly and has the potential to become very significant. We 
have the building -blocks needed to provide science-based personalized nutrition. With the creation of the wholly  owned 
venture Hologram Sciences , Inc., we ai m to develop, and validate with consumers, integrated personalized nutrition 
solutions for our customers. The stand -alone set -up is designed to ensure agility and speed, while the arm’s -length link to 
DSM allow s to leverag e DSM’s access to market. Hologram  Sciences , Inc. will work closely with leading start-ups in which 
we have already invested, such as Mixfit, Tespo and AVA.  
In addition, we are continuing our long -term commitment to champion efforts to increase the availability of 
micronutrient -rich food  in countries with very low -income populations through various partnerships , such as with WFP, 
UNICEF and Africa Improved Foods (AIF).  
We are also championing the purpose behind our products, which help address some of world’s greatest nutritional 
challenges. Furthermore, we  continue to sharpen our focus on customer -centricity and commercial excellence. 
Our focus in Food & B everages 
The Food & Beverage market is subject to rapid change, driven by evolving consumer needs. The challenge for our  
customers, the food & beverage producers, is to anticipate these changes and respond by developing and delivering  on-
trend, differentiating products  faster than their competitors. Our customers are therefore seeking : 
-Products that deliver specific taste and texture attributes
-Products that deliver improved nutritional value and the associated health benefits
-Approaches that deliver more resource-efficient an d sustainable food production
In the Food & Beverage market, we are uniquely positioned to offer solutions that address health, taste and texture  in an 
integrated way , with our:  
-Unique and extensive portfolio of global products, ranging from dairy cultures and enzymes for applications across
dairy,  baking  and beverages ; coatings and preservation systems ; yeast extracts  and process flavors and texturizing
hydrocolloids ; to our vitamins, minerals and nutritional lipids
-Deep expertise in application in  our core  end-market segments
To strengthen this unique proposition  in food & beverages , we will continue to:  
-Deepen our integrated application know -how
-Broaden our global product portfolio
-Combine  ingredient and application  innovation
-Maximize opportuni ties for inorganic growth
An example of our ingredient and application innovation is CanolaPRO™ , a sustainable plant -based protein source. This  is 
a new building- block in our solutions offering for meat alternatives and dairy alternatives. Avansya , our partnership with 
Cargill to bring zero -calorie, cost -effective, non -artificial sweeteners to market  at scale , is another such example of product 
innovation.  Report by the Managing Board – Strategy  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Re port 2020  20 Mater ials strategy  
Following the announcement of the sale of our Resins & Functional materials businesses to Covestro  AG, our Materials 
activities now consist of DSM Engineering Materials and DSM Protective Materials. These businesses generated sales of 
approxi mately €1.5 billion in 20 20, have  a strong growth and earnings potential , and are positioned to deliver growth in the 
strategic area of Sustainable Living. We will continue to develop the Materials business into a more resilient, high er-
growth, and high- margin specialty business . Focusing on three Sustainable Living growth platforms  – Improved Health & 
Living, Green Products & Applications, and New Mobility & Connectivity  – we aim for mid- single -digit organic sales growth , 
an Adjusted EBITDA margin g reater than 20% and a high  single -digit Adjusted EBITDA growth percentage .  
Focus on three growth platforms  
Ou
r Materials platforms will capture more opportunities in Sustainable Living, propelled by the following growth drivers: 
winning segments, substitution, innovation and sustainability.  
In Improved Health & Living , we are focusing in particular on the growing demand for healthcare , personal protective 
equipment  and medical applicati ons such as specialty materials for medical gowns, respiratory tubes and stents.   
In Green Products & Applications , we are focusing  on the increasing demand for bio -based, recycled -based, and fully 
recyclable solutions. The launch of bio -based Dyneema® in 2020 is a good example.  
In New Mobility & Connectivity , we are targeting the transition from fossil fuel to electric automotive power and 
hydrogen -fueled cars. An example is our specialty material Xytron® PPS for high performance fuel cells . We are also 
addressing the growing need for materials  that enable autonomous driving and the increased connectivity between 
products, devices and applications.  
Innovation s trategy  
Innovation is what transforms our ‘ Bright Science ’ into ‘Brighter Living ’. We aim t o develop innovative , sustainable 
solutions  by leveraging our unique scientific competences and our  profound understanding of:  
-The science behind nutrition, and the capability to develop new nutritional ingredients with proven health benefits,
supported by our state- of-the-art Biotechnology Centers , providing sustainable alternatives for chemical synthesis,
as well as plant - and animal -derived ingredients
-Materials science and the capability to convert this into Sustainable Living applications,  supported by access to
global state -of-the art laboratories
Report by the Managing Board – Strategy  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Re port 2020  21 Our sales growth is driven by our ability to continually deliver innovative and improved products and solutions to meet our 
customers ’ needs. Our innovations reflect our commitment to healthier and more sustainable outcomes and so help drive 
the performance of our Brighter Living Solutions portfolio .  
Innovation sales  have also improved our profitability, delivering higher margins than the average of our running business. 
Our innovation sales are  defined as products and applications that have been introduced over the past five years. We 
aspire to maintain  the contribution made by these sales at around 20%  of tot al sales, which we consider to be a healthy 
proportion in view of the overall balance of our product portfolio and product life cycles. We will continue to invest in differentiating science and technology . 
Driving the innovation pipeline  through seven  growth themes  
We are adapting our innovation approach from being project -based to platform -based to deliver  a business-anchored 
pipeline of innovations that is aligned with our future strategic needs and support s our growth ambitions. We have 
identified seven overarching growth themes  that capture the major global societal, technological and environmental 
trends that inform our innovation platforms.  In Nutrition & Health, we focus on four growth themes: Pathways, Proteins, 
Prevention and Precision. In Sustainable Living, we focus on three growth themes: Improved Health & Living. Green Products & Applications and New Mobility & Connectivity.  
Innovation growth themes  
This move from individual projects to innovation platforms  provides focus , and links our existing portfolio with our future 
pipeline. When we look ahead to 2025 and beyond, our success will not be dependent on several large projects only. Instead , each innovation platform will have a clear pipeline of multiple projects at differ ent stages of maturity.   
In Nutrition & Health , we focus on four growth themes : Pathways, Proteins, Prevention  and Precision . 
-Pathways:  using our base strength in chemistry and biotechnology to manufacture ingredients with a better
environmental footprint. Through our strengths and advances in biotechnology we can look to microorganisms toproduce ingredients and intermediates ; for example , the innovation platform of Sustainable Lipids, which includes
algal-based omega -3 Veramaris® for more sustainable aquaculture
-Proteins:  solutions that reduce the footprint of animal proteins and meet the growing demand for meat and dairy
alternatives ; for example, the Animal Emission Reduction platform , which includes our feed additive Bovaer®, which
significantly reduces methane emissions from cattle, and plant -based specialty proteins such as CanolaPro™
-Prevention:  using our  rich portfolio of active in gredients  (e.g. vitamins, lipids , HMOs ) which all exist in nature to
optimize health and immunity.  For example, as we learn more about  how our ingredients  modulate the gut
microbiome, we see potential  to develop  solutions that build  resilience to stress an d disease in people and animals .
In the Animal Gut Health platform, for example, we have a full range of antibiotic alternatives that promote animal
health while tackling anti -microbial resistance (AMR)
Report by the Managing Board – Strategy  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Re port 2020  22 -Precision:  digitally enabled new business models to enhance nutrition precision, ensuring the right nutrition to
maximize health for individual humans and animals ; an example is our personalized nutrition platform, delivered
through Hologram Sciences , Inc., which pr ovides nutrition and coaching recommendations
In Sustainable Living , we focus on three growth themes: Improved Health & Living , Green Products & Applications and New 
Mobility & Connectivity as  described in the Material s strategy  section . 
Enabling programs for accelerated growth  
Our enabling programs  will underpin and facilitate our ambitions by focusing on key areas  such as a performance- driven 
organization, leadership and people, culture, powered by digital and sustainability leadership across DSM.  
Organization, leadership and people, and culture  
We continue to develop our organization, leadership and people, and culture to en able continued performance.  The 
extraordinary circumstances of 2020 – new leadership at the top; a pandemic disrupting our views about work, workplace 
and workforce; and a continued company transformation – called for a new Pe ople & Organization (P&O) strategy , The  new 
P&O strategy is both a continuation and an evolution of our current strategy, with a focus on ‘ Creating a Flotilla 
Organization’ , ‘Empowering Our Employees ’, ‘Creating a C ontemporary Workplace ’, and ‘ Resetting the Context for 
Leadership ’ – all anchored in our DSM Culture Compass .  
Powered by digital   
The 5 key digital shifts taking place in the world around us are leveraged and scaled across our organization  to solidify and 
optimize our core business but also to create new value streams:  
-Building the right partnerships and ecosystems  at scale  to go beyond current business models ; for example ,
personalized nutrition
-Using data and insights  at scale in all functional domains to enlighten decision -making a nd boost top and bottom
line
-Intensifying  automation , eliminating all routine tasks , thus allow ing the simplification of operating models and the
acceleration of key processes
-Becom ing truly agile , moving from a traditional waterfall organization to cross -functional teams  empowered to take
integrated decisions  and operating in an iterative and adaptative manner
-Preparing for a future workforce  that is fully  digital ly oriented and possesses advance d digital skill s
Sustainability leadership  
Sustainability is not only our core value and a key responsibility, it is increasingly an important business growth driver  at 
DSM that is fully e mbedded in our strategy. By improving the impact of our own operations, enabling sustainable solutions 
for our customers and advocating sustainable business, we make a positive contribution  toward achieving the S ustainable 
Development Goals. For more details on our initiatives and progress, see People  and Planet and Our approach to the 
Sustainable Development Goals . 
Report on progress  in 2020  
Our strategy  served us very well in 2020. It helped us to set our priorities in order  to drive organic growth, especially in 
view of the rapidly changing circumstances brought about by the COVID -19 pandemic. It also helped us make the right 
capital allocation ch oices, including the selection of acquisition targets and the development of our nutrition portfolio, 
where appropriate.  Report by the Managing Board – Strategy  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Re port 2020  23 Highlights: 
-We c
ompleted the integration of two acquisitions ( CSK and Glycom), and started the  integration of Erber Group into
DSM.
-These  three acquisitions valued together at € 1.7 billion further stren gthen our ‘global products, local solutions’
business model  as well as the Precision part of our business model by acquiring Romer L abs as part of the
acquisition of Erber Group .
-We announced the divestment of our Resins & Functional Materials and associated businesses
-We executed two change programs, ‘Agility to Grow’ in Materials and ‘Fit for Growth’ in DSM Nutrition al Products, to
support profitable growth th rough process simplification  and improv ed alignment with market needs
-Enhanc ed our platform -based approach to driving innovation, ensuring a healthy pipeline of new products and
solutions
-Delivered against our purpose -led sustainability ambitions in people and planet
Progress in Sustainability : People and Planet  
At DSM, sustainability is not only our core value  and a key responsibility  it is also an important business driver that is 
fully engrained in our purpose, strategy, business and operations. Our approach for bringing about positive change is to 
improve, enable and advocate . See below an overview of our progress on our key sustainability metrics:  
1 These data are subject to the non -financial reporting policy . 
2 We estimate that the effect of the underlying cumulative structural improvements in absolute GHG emissions was approximately  18% 
in 2020, versus the 2016 baseline. The total cumulative absolute reduction was 25%, versus the 2016 baseline. 
3 For a small percentage of sales (<0.6 % of sales) classified as Brighter Living Solutions, the environmental impact is consid ered ‘best 
in class’ together with other solutions  
We have leading positions in important ESG indices for investors: we hold a platinum sustainability medal from EcoVadis 
putting us in the top 1% of our industry , we are already ranked first out of 120 companies in our industry by Sustainalytics, 
have an AAA rating from MSCI, have Prime Status with ISS -ESG, and have a leading position in the rankings of Vigeo Eiris.  
Planet  
We further  improved  the environmental impact  of our own operations  and are well on track with r espect to our 
greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction, energy efficiency and purchased renewable electricity targets. : 
-The underlying structural improvement in absolute greenhouse gas reduction  from operations in 2020 compared to
the 2016 baseline is ~18%, versus o ur target of 30% by 2030
-Energy efficiency  has improved by 5.7% compared to full year 2019 versus our  >1% average annual ambition.
-60% of purchased electricity  came from renewable resources  compared with 50% in 2019, firmly on course to
achieve our interi m target of 75% by 2030  in the pursuit of 100%
This progress supports our commitment  to a long -term pathway to work toward net-zero GHG emissions  across our 
operations and value chains by 2050 . We are also proud to be globally recognized for our leadership in Sustainability . Our 
climate change strategy received an  A rating and an A - for our water stewardship from CDP, the global non -profit 
environmental disclosure platform.  
Report by the Managing Board – Strategy  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Re port 2020  24 We enabled  our customers to deliver more sustainable solutions  to their (end) consumers focusing on the domains of 
Nutrition & Health, Climate & Energy, and Resources & Circularity. Our purpose -led innovation pipeline is fully aligned with 
our five focus SDGs. We launched a new strategic initiative to lead a robust transformation in sustainable animal protein  
production worldwide , and we unveiled our ‘Products with Purpose’ brand strategy in human nutrition. We halved the 
carbon footp rint of Akulon® PA6 , one of our key thermoplastic material products , and introduced bio -based Dyneema® .  
More about our environmental performance can be found in the Planet  section . 
People  
As the pandemic unfolded in 2020, taking care of our people became more important than ever. The resilience, 
engagement and care demonstrated by all of our employees has humbled us this year . We undertook a wide range of 
initiatives designed to support the  physical, mental and emotional wellbeing of our people . In addition , we continued to 
work on safety and the engagement of our employees and to champion inclusion and diversity .  
In terms of metrics w e further improve d the Frequency Index of DSM Recordable  Injuries  to 0.24 from 0.28 in 2019, 
achieving our target level of 0.25. We continue to strive to make our company fully incident - and injury -free. It was also 
pleasing to see that in such a challenging year we had a notable increase in Employee Engagement  results (from 74% to 
76%). On Inclusion & Diversity , we have made some progress on gender, with an Executive Committee ratio of 57% female, 
a Supervisory Board ratio of 42% female, a ratio of 21% female executives  and under -represented nationalities ratio  on 
executive level (30%) . In 2020 , we have broadened our continued journey to include pillars on generations, disability and 
LGBTQ+, with all five pillars being supported by highly engaged employee resource groups including: Rainbow Group, supporting LGBT Q+ colleagues; the Valuable group, supporting colleagues with disabilities; and the Black Employee 
Network at DSM called BLEND.  
In terms of Organization, Leadership and Culture , we took the first implementation steps for the new P&O strategy at the 
end of 2020 : we invest ed in our unique culture, with the launch of our  Culture Compass, we  piloted a new technology for 
career development, and launch ed a Hybrid Workplace concept for our ‘Next Normal’ way of working.  
More information can be found in the  People  section.  
Brighter L iving Solutions  
In 2020, 63 % of our total group sales (continuing and discontinued operations) came from products that have a better 
environmental (ECO+) and/or social (People+) impact than mainstream solutions. We call these our Brighter Living 
Solutions . In 2020 we were able to qualify several additional  solutions. This increase was offset by the disqualification of 
two significant solutions as part of our annual review process. These disqualifications were the result of an improved mainstream reference and changed supplier impacts . To better measure the sustainab ility impact of our product portfolio, 
we trialed a new methodology aimed at increased transparency and granularity. The approach was developed in 2019 and trialed in 2020. The methodology will be further refined in 2021 based on the feedback from the trials.  
Progress in Digitization & Digitalization  
With 157 bots automating numerous processes and more than 50 data analytics use cases implemented, we have created a solid basis to scale the benefits of 
advanced analytics and automation . The pandemic required us to  accelerate the 
adoption of digital tool s and practices among our workforce and laid down the key principles of new ways of working that 
will thrive in the ‘ Next Normal ’. We piloted with succ ess our digital mindset change program in Latin America and China by 
inviting employees to learn, ideate and try out digital approaches more and more often.  In the second part of the year , we 
combined the Nutrition strategy with digital imperatives to form  an integrated transformation program that will shape, 
over the coming years, the digital Nutrition of tomorrow . Report by the Managing Board – Strategy  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Re port 2020  25 Strategic priorities and key path forward 
We are committed to  deliver against current performance expectations . This means that we are focused on delivering 
growth, through being the partner of choice for our customers, bringing our innovations to market , and successfully 
integrating our recent acquisitions. At the same time, we will be building the company for the future. This also entai ls 
building new business models by scaling our capabilities in digital & b ioscience and M&A. We will create a stronger brand 
focus on Health through Nutrition. Additionally, we will ensure we have the right organizational  culture to embrace this 
next phase . All of this will require, as always, further adjustments to our organization – starting with the carve -out of our 
Resins & Performance Materials businesses    
Strategic priorities  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  26 Case studies  
Making animal farming more sustainable  
 If w
e hope to feed, sustainably and responsibly, the 9.7 billion1 people who are expected to share 
our planet by 2050, the time to change is now. While plant- based proteins show increasing potential 
for helping to meet this need in a sustainable manner, they are not sufficient to fulfill it completely, 
and animal -based proteins retain an essential role in meeting global dietary requirements. We  see 
many opportunities to improve and  are therefore helping to make  animal farming more 
sustainable  so we can bring better food, nutrition and health to all, within planetary boundaries. 
The need for sustainable animal protein production  
Animal -based proteins are highly nutritious and form a key part of a balanced, healthy diet . Their consumption is also 
central to many cultures, and animal -source foods and other animal -source products pl ay an important socio- economic 
role in those cultures.  
However, rising demand for animal protein is driving up greenhouse gas emissions and piling pressure on natural 
resources . The sustainability of mainstream animal production is consequently coming und er increasing scrutiny from the 
value chain, policy makers and associated stakeholders.  
Continuing to operate as we have done in the past is not an option. All players involved in the production of animal protein need to be aware of the 
challenges  we are facing. We must work together to solve them – applying new thinking, 
new technologies, and new business models in order to create a more sustainable industry for the whole planet.  
Our solution s 
We embed sustainability as a business driver  and enable our customers and partners to deliver sustainable and healthy 
solutions for the planet and society. We are building a sustainable future in six key areas:  
1 Source: UN 
Case studies  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  27 -Improving the lifetime performance of farm animals
-M
aking efficient use of natural resour ces
-Reducing emissions from livestock
-Helping tackle antimicrobial resistance
-Reducing our reliance on marine resources
-Improving the nutritional quality of meat, milk, fish and eggs, while reducing food loss and waste
Our innovative science- based solutions enhance the animal nutrition value chain  at every stage. This involves enabling 
farmers to develop practices that are both sustainable and economically viable. Here we highlight our contribution to one 
of these: reducing emissions from livestock. 
Our impact: Reducing emissions from livestock 
Cre
ating a low -emissions future for animal farming  
Animal farming accounts for 14.5% of all human -derived greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. This figure is set to rise as 
demand for animal -source foods increases. It needs to be reduced rapidly to limit the rise in global temperatures to  1.5°C 
by 2050. The main sources of these emissions relate to animal  feed, followed by methane naturally produced by cows, and 
then again by methane plus  nitrous oxide emissions from manure.   
Reducing emissions through nutrition  
Reducing emissions entails, among other things, changes to farm infrastructures and husbandry practices, but improvements in nutrition are of pivotal importance. To be sustainable in the long term, animal farming has to reduce the emissions it produces, cu tting levels of methane, nitrous oxide  and ammonia, which drive up global warming and 
negatively impact biodiversity and water quality. Our innovative
 nutritional solutions  targeting these emissions are 
Bovaer® (which reduces methane emissions from ruminan ts by at least 30%), VevoVitall® (which reduces ammonia 
emissions by up to 18% in swine), and our protease feed enzymes such as ProAct (to improve protein feed protein utilization in poultry and subsequently reduce nitrogen emissions to the environment).  
Re
ducing nitrogen emissions with ProAct  
ProAct  increases the amount of digestible protein in feed, making it possible to reduce the overall protein content of feed. 
It improves the digestibility of proteins, thereby reducing nitrogen emissions to the environment by up to 1 7%.  
Case studies  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  28 ProAct also enables the use of more diverse feed raw materials and facilitates greater flexibility  in feed formulation, 
reducing our reliance on soy and thereby helping to cut deforestation for soy cultivation. This equates to an average 
reduction of 8% (2 5kg) in the amount of soybean meal required per ton of broiler feed. If ProAct were to be used globally 
in broiler diets, it would permit the replacement of 7.2  million tons of soybean meal annually, corresponding to 9.0  million 
tons of soy, thereby reduci ng deforestation by 3.1 million hectares a year.  
Effective measurement is essential to this undertaking, and so we have been developing an advanced sustainability service that enables farmers to see their own
 environmental footprint  in its entirety and und erstand where changes need to be 
made for improvement. This service is backed up by science -based, cost -effective solutions to make the improvements a 
reality. Creating this transparency gives farmers options for reducing their emissions, differentiating t hemselves from less 
sustainable competitors and unlocking the real value of sustainable animal production.  
Stronger together  
We work closely with our customers and other partners in the value chain  to make sustainable animal farming possible, 
and are alway s looking for ways to increase our positive impact together. For several years now, we have been helping our 
customers to calculate their carbon footprint (GHG emissions), working with them to reduce it over time by means of practical, proven nutritional s olutions to ensure they reach their emissions reduction targets.  
We have recently developed a new Animal Protein Sustainability Service  (APS Service), which will allow us to holistically 
evaluate the full environmental footprint of our customers’ animal pr otein production operations. The APS Service uses 
highly advanced Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) tools, modeling and benchmarking to produce a powerful business diagnostic for animal protein producers: a large footprint is often associated with inefficiencies in the farming system, and eliminating 
these can allow the farmer to capture financial value while reducing the farm’s environmental footprint.  
How we support the SDGs  
SDG 2: End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture  
Our products contribute to delivering animal -source foods that are healthy, nutritious, affordable and sustainable by 
promoting animal health via targeted nutritional interventions.  
SDG 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote well -being for all at  all ages  
By supporting the production of healthy, nutritious, affordable and sustainable animal -source foods, we improve the 
availability of protein, which is a critical macronutrient and an essential component of a balanced diet.  
SDG 12: Ensure sustainab le consumption and production patterns  
Our products that increase the digestibility of feed help reduce the area of agricultural land needed to produce essential feed crops, giving farmers options for reducing their emissions and differentiating themselves from less sustainable 
competitors.  
SDG 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts  
Our products that reduce the emissions to air, land and water that are associated with livestock production address climate change and its impacts.
Case studies  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  29 Accelerating nutritional support for immunity  
The global public health crisis  triggered by  COVID -19 has highlighted the need for easil y accessible  
dietary solutions that support  immune health . In 2020, our customers needed to go to market 
faster than ever before with reliable and effective formulations and applications, delivering 
different formats that could easily be integrated into consumers’ dietary routines. With our end-to-
end capabiliti es, such as customized p remix  solutions, regulatory support  and Market -Ready 
Solutions , we succeeded in meeting this unprecedented need.  
Worldwide problem  
Market insights confirm that immunity became a leading consumer health concern  in 2020, with 65% of people saying 
that they were either ‘worried’ or ‘very worried’ about their immune status. The health benefits of micronutrients are widely  
understood by consumers today. Micron utrients , such as vitamins, dietary minerals, omega -3 fatty acids and specific 
probiotic  strain s, play an important role in supporting the body’s immune system. Recent scientific evidence underpins the 
particular role of vitamin D in supporting  immune health and strongly indicates  a relationship between vitamin D status in 
the blood and the likelihood or severity of a COVID -19 diagnosis .  
Case studies  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  30 Travel restrictions, fewer in -person medical consultations and growing use of e- commerce channels consequently fueled 
consumer  demand for  immunity self -care products , as well as  the need for assurance that  existing dietary supplements 
of choice contain ed immunity- supporting  ingredients . 
In response to the outbreak of COVID -19, in 2020 33% of consumers took dietary supplements more frequentl y than before  
and 13% started taking them for the first time , immune health being their main motivator. The dietary supplement market 
grew by approximately 4.5% in 20201, whereby COVID -19 was a key driver,  and revealed that consumers are shifting their 
nutritional preferences in the direction of healthier choices.  
Our cu stomers n eeded to innovate to m e et this rapidly gro wing demand, delivering i n novations t o ma rket i n record t i me in 
o
rder t o meet a global p u blic health n e ed a nd at t h e s ame time c apture v al uable c om mercial op portunities. 
Our s olution 
O
ur Market -Ready S olutions capabilitie s extend from b rand i dea to creating t h e final product o n  the shelf. What made 
customers ch oose our M arket -Ready S olutions w as the need to go t o market f as t. W e have t he capacity an d ex pertise t o 
accompany t he customer at e very s tep o f the product d evelopment p r ocess from m arket r esearch a nd pr oduct i deation t o 
post-launch s upport , whether in t he supplement, m ed ical n utrition, p harma o r food & beverages m arkets. 
Our p roducts, c ustomized s olutions an d expert s ervices h ave e nabled m any of ou r customers ac ross t he w or ld t o launch 
n
ew immunity -supporting pr oducts i n record t i me during the C O VID -19 pandemic , drawing on o ur scientific e xpertise , 
h
igh-quality i ngredients and premix f ormulations . 
Stronger together 
Viktor Axelsen (VA) Health was among many customers to benefit from our Market-Re ady Solutions and launch a 
c
omprehensive d ietary s upplements p roduct l ine, including an immunity s o lution, in 2020. Find m ore d etail on how w e 
helped  him to in this video. 
1 Source: Euromonitor International Limited 2020©  
Case studies  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  31 Li
ke many of our customers, Korea Eundan benefit ed from our speed of response in 2020.  
“Korea Eundan has continued to work with DSM to promote the immune benefits of vitamin C in a 
variety of ways,” says YoungJo Cho, CEO of Korea Eundan. “Especially during the COVID -19 pandemic, 
a steady supply of vitam in C could have been difficult to sustain. Fortunately, DSM Korea’s quick 
forecast of consumer demand and support from its headquarters enabled Korea Eundan to keep up 
its supply of products to the market without much strain, further raising consumer confi dence. As 
we have built a mutually beneficial partnership, I sincerely look forward to working and growing together with DSM in the years to come.”  
Our impact  
Consumer studies we conducted in 2020 indicate that consumers around the globe are increasingly taking proactive measures to optimize their 
immune health , and are seeking affordable, accessible and reliable nutritional solutions to do 
so. At the same time, the rising average age of the world’s population creates a growing population group that is especially 
vulnerable to infections , as the COVID -19 public health crisis has shown.  
We saw this need in 2020  and helped  our customers in the dietary supplements , food & beverages , medical nutrition and 
pharma  sectors to enhance their leading brands as well as deliver new Market -Ready Solutions at unprecedented speed. 
Our sales from immunity -supporting ingredients  exceeded EUR 1 billion in 2020 . Versus the previous year, we  
outperform ed the dietary supplements market by growing 14% vs 4.5% market growth, in the medical nutrition market  by 
34% vs. average annual market growth of 6 –8%1, and in the pharma market by 13% vs. market growth of 2 –5%2. 
How we support the S DGs 
SDG 3: Ensuring healthy lives and promoting  well-being for all at all ages.  
Our efforts in helping our customers to quickly launch effective immunity -supporting products , our comprehensive 
market -shaping activities, and our endeavors to raise awareness of the role that nutritional solutions may play in 
supporting our immune system all support SDG3 .
1 Source: 2014 Frost & Sullivan Global Medical Foods Marke t Forecast Report, United Nations, Department of Economic and Social 
Affairs, Population Division (2017)  
2 Source: IQVIA Midas  
Case studies  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  32 Tastier, more nutritious plant- based choices  
There is a growing demand for plant -based alternatives alongside traditional meat and dairy 
products, as consumers search for foods that deliver an authentic eating experience without 
compromising on taste and texture. At the same time, the importance of a  quality nutritional 
profile  is attracting increasing recognition.  To meet this need, in 2020 we launched two new 
portfolios of integrated solutions , one supporting the production of plant -based meat alternatives 
and the other of dairy alternatives.  These innovative solutions are backed up by our expert product 
positioning services , which draw on unrivalled nutrition science and regulatory expertise.  
The quest for appealing alternatives to traditional meat and dairy products  
The world ’s growing population calls for a rethinking of today ’s food systems if  we are to ensure healthy diets for all  
within planetary boundaries. Intrinsic to this requirement is the challenge of being able to provide enough quality proteins in a fair  manner. Climate and nutrition scientists alike advise increasing the proportion of plant -based products for more 
balance d diets in support of healthy lifestyles. Whether for personal, health or sustainability reasons, or from plain 
curiosity, more and more people are adding 
plant -based options  to their food choices and are adopting flexitarian, 
vegetarian, or vegan diets.  
Consumers are therefore increasingly looking for appealing choices  alongside  the meat and dairy products that form a key 
part of many traditional diets. A recent DSM study attested that taste is still the overriding criterion for consumers. In fa ct, 
62% of consumers choose taste over everything else when it comes to food products, and plant -based alternatives are no 
Case studies  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  33 exception. At the same time, nearly 85% of participants reported being aware that they are missing out on vitamins and 
mi
nerals when followin g ‘elimination diets’ . 
Food & beverage producers are thus faced with the challenge of developing alternative products  for this market that offer 
a comparable experience and taste to the traditional products they replace. Increasingly, consumer and societ al 
expectations are set to move beyond taste and texture, as awareness grows concerning  the importance of a quality 
nutritional profile.  
Our unique portfolio  allows us to create solutions that deliver authentic taste, texture and mouthfeel along with a 
preferred nutritional profile, at the same time enabling producers to manage levels of salt, sugar and gluten.  
Our solution s 
In the field of meat alternatives , we offer a range of solutions that deliver authentic meaty taste and create succulent, 
appealing  texture. At the same time, because our yeast extracts unlock full umami flavor, producers can reduce the amount 
of added salt in their recipes, improving the health appeal.   
Our enzymes, hydrocolloids and taste modulation solutions, meanwhile, create the smooth mouthfeel and tailored sweetness necessary for appealing plant -based beverages. In 
dairy alternatives , our new Delvo®Plant enzyme range  
complements our portfolio of solutions including hydrocolloids and taste modulators that help manufacturers develop and market premium dairy alternatives. The Delvo®Plant range not only contributes to  the desired texture, but can also 
unlock glucose and/or maltose from starch bases , enab ling manufacturers to create healthier alternative beverages with 
zero or reduced added sugar, offering sweetness profiles that can be tailored to meet local preferences.  
Our Quali® vitamins and premix solutions improve the desired nutritional value  of both meat and dairy alternatives, 
alongside our life ’s™OMEGA range of plant -based nutritional lipids.  
These groundbreaking new portfolios will be complemented by CanolaPROTM, our unique protein based on non- genetically 
modified canola. Coming to market in 2022, CanolaPROTM is ideal for a range of applications including meat and dairy 
alternatives, beverages, baked goods, bars , and ready -to-drink and ready -to-mix applications. CanolaPROTM offers versatile 
texture benefits thanks to its solubility, also in co mbination with other proteins such as pea or fava, as well as being a 
nutritionally complete protein in its own right.  
More information on our plant -based alternatives can be found here . 
Case studies  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  34 Our impact  
The global plant -based product retail market value (meat alternatives and dairy alternatives) is set to jump from 
€21 billion in 2019 to ~€30 billion in 2024. However, the g rowing demand for plant -based products that meet today’s 
evolving consumer expectations  presents complex challenges for  food & beverage manufacturers. With our 
comprehensive portfolio of solutions for plant -base d meat and dairy alternatives, we can help food & beverage 
manufacturers deliver a specific sensory profile without compromising on health appeal , and our ingredients and know -
how are already making many plant -based products in grocery -store chiller cabinets and well-known high- street chains 
tastier and more nutritious. Additional appealing choices help the food industry to sustainably meet the protein 
requirements of a growing population with new options alongside traditional products.  
How we support the S DGs 
SDG 12: Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns.  
With our unique portfolio of products for creating nutritious and delicious meat and dairy alternatives, we help ensure healthy lives and promote well -being for all ages while at the same time supporting sustainable consumption and 
production pattern .
Bio-based Dyneema®  and the circular economy  
In 2020, we introduced bio-based feedstock  into the production of Dyneema®, the world’s 
strongest fiber™. Dyneema® serves a wide range of applications,  from ropes and lines to 
lightweight, high- performance fabrics for outdoor and sports use, such as cycling jerseys, tents and 
backpacks. Due to their extreme robustness, garments made with Dyneema® last longer than 
comparable traditional products, lengthening the cycle lifetime.  Introducing bio -based feedstock 
allows us to reduce our use of fossil -based resources . Production of 1 m etric ton of bio -based 
Dyneema® generates 5 metric tons less CO 2eq than the same volume of fossil -based Dyneema®.  
Case studies  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  35 Red
ucing our dependency on fossil -based resources  
The linear economy is not sustainable.  Every year, the human race is currently consuming  1.7 times the amount of 
resources that the earth can replenish. This ratio is projected to grow from 1.7 to 3 by 2050. In addition, feedstocks have a  
major impact on carbon footprint: to enable the low-carbon economy  necessary for combating climate change , it is 
essential to transition away from fossil feedstocks.  
Introducing bio -based feedstock allows us to reduce our dependency  on fossil -based resources. Production of 1 metric ton 
of bio -based Dyneema® generates 5 metric tons less CO 2eq than the same volume of fossil -based Dyneema®. In addition, 
bio-based Dyneema® has the lowest carbon footprint  per unit strength compared to other synthetic fibers. For example, 
compared to generic high -modulus polyethylene  (HMPE ) fibers, bio -based Dyneema® emits 29 met ric tons less CO 2 per 
metric ton of fiber produced. This is the amount of CO 2 released by charging 3.7 million smartphones, or absorbed by 
growing 480 tree seedlings for 10 years.  
Our solution  
Customers, governments and end -users are increasingly demanding  renewable and bio -based  materials.  The World 
Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD)  estimates that the economic opportunity for bio -based products to 
complement and/or replace conventional ones will be worth USD 7.7 trillion by 2030.  Dyneema ® is the first, and currently 
only, bio -based ultra -high-molecular -weight polyethylene (UHMWPE) fiber in the world. We aim for at least 60% of 
Dyneema® fiber feedstock to be bio -based by 2030.  
Our impact  
Through the mass balancing  approach, bio -based Dynee ma® fiber delivers the same consistent durability and 
performance, along with reduced environmental impact.  
The fiber is certified according to the International Sustainability & Carbon Certification’s globally recognized ISCC Plus , a 
certification system  covering all sustainable feedstocks, including renewables. ISSC Plus certifies that the bio -based fiber 
originates from a transparent and traceable supply chain while guaranteeing that the amount of bio- based materials sold 
is not more than the amount sou rced.  
Stronger together  
Bio-based Dyneema® is enhancing the sustainability performance  of our customers, and of their customers in turn.  
Gleistein Ropes , an industrial company in Bremen  (Germany ) that has been manufacturing ropes since 1824, has switc hed 
its entire portfolio of products with Dyneema® to the bio- based offering.  
Klaus Walther , Managing Director of Gleistein Ropes:  “By completely switching our products made 
with Dyneema® to the new bio -based Dyneema® fibers, I anticipate that we will reduce our carbon 
footprint to the tune of around 1,000 mt CO 2eq in the first year alone, which is equivalent to taking 
more than 210 passenger cars off the roads. Importantly, our customers will continue to enjoy 
exactly the same extremely high levels of performance they are accustomed to from conventional Dyneema® fibers. Naturally, we are proud to be taking on the 
pioneering role  of being the world’s 
first textile rope manufacturer to use sustainable raw materials for its entire portfolio of products made  with Dyneema®. But we also hope that more companies will follow our example and join us in 
making a real contribution to climate protection and sustainability in our industry.”  
How we support the SGDs  
SDG 12: Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns  
Bio-based Dyneema®  enables the transition from a fossil resource to a renewable resource and reduces carbon footprint.
Case stu dies 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  36 Dutch PPE solutions  delivers  bluepri nt for new businesses  
During the COVID -19 crisis of 2020, we created a dedicated internal DSM startup and later partnered 
with VDL Gr oep (VDL), a Dutch, family -owned industrial conglomerate, to swiftly create a business 
supplying quality face  masks  and filter material to Dutch and EU markets. We will use this startup 
model to scale future innovative businesses.  
Accel
erating production to  meet demand  
The COVID -19 crisis highlighted the structural problem  of worldwide reliance on long global supply chains , for the supply 
of critical personal protective equipment (PPE) such as face masks.  
Global demand for medical face  masks and critical fil ter material quickly exceeded supply  when confronted with the 
pandemic . A shortage arose that endangered healthcare workers, the co ntinuity of healthcare systems, and the overall 
response to the COVID -19 crisis. Meanwhile, the overstretched market conditions lead to price increases and low quality, 
inadequate equipment entering the market. To address the need for locally -produced, reliable, high -quality and 
responsibly -priced PPE , DSM and VDL’s solution is to build local PPE manufacturing  capability. Our entry into the PPE 
market is purpose -led, helping to address both an immediate societal requirement and a longer -term structural need.  
The increased utilization of single-use PPE such as medical face masks creates significant sustainabilit y challenges. 
Localizing production to end -use location is a first step, however , we and our joint venture partners aim to make 
sustainability a future development direction for our PPE activities – for example, by looking into the use of circular 
material s. 
Our solution  
The urgent need for locally -produced, reliable, high -quality and responsibly- priced PPE motivated  us to apply our 
experience with startups in  to quickly develop a new business and partnership, and to establish operations in the 
Case stu dies 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  37 Netherlands.  This and other recent  experiences provide d a blueprint for quickly establishing and scaling up innovative 
businesses in future.  
A small, dedicated, and entrepreneurial team  with a high degree of autonomy was created to set up the new venture, 
ensuring fa st decision -making and execution. All team members devote  more than 60% of their time to the venture and 
have short communication lines with each other with day -to-day business decision -making power. A venture board 
composed of senior DSM leaders convenes to decide on changes to business plans and to approve large investments. 
Funding requests are linked to business milestones such as having a CE -certified mask ready for commercial launch or 
having operations plans in place . The team is supported by a light , standalone sales, purchasing and accounting system, 
facilitating quick transactions and rapid progress.  
Our
 impact  
The first product to be manufactured was a Dutch -designed, FFP2 medical face mask for use in high -contamination risk 
environments such as intensive care units , with production in Helmond  (Netherlands ). The development of the masks 
relies on the production of  the non-woven filter  material, meltblown polypropylene (MBPP) , which was in short supply 
during the first wave of the COVID -19 pandemic. To combat the shortage, we  have started construction on an MBPP plant in 
Geleen  (Netherlands ). The establishment of the first permanent production facility of critical filter material in the 
Netherlands will provide greater resilience to possible future surges in demand for  face masks and the underlying 
materials.  
The healthcare providers  will be prioritized  to receive the product  initially, and production will be extended as the market 
may demand to support professionals in other sectors such as public transport, schools and educational institutes , and 
private companies across Europe.  
Dutch PPE Solutions  has been created by means of a streamlined  procedure  for establishing ventures, in line with our 
strategy to deliver growth and value through innovation. The result is an organization that is built for speed, progressing from concept to production in approximately six months. Initial production of face  masks b egan already in October 2020. 
The manufacturing facilit y for MBPP is expected to be fully operational in April 2021.  
The establishment of the first permanent production facility  for critical filter material in the Netherlands will provide 
greater resilience to possible future surges in demand for  face masks and the underlying materials.  
Stronger together  
“During the past months,” comments Willem van der Leegte , President and CEO of VDL Gr oep, “the 
Corona crisis has taught us that you can't tell a pandemic what to do and that it's important for continents to provide for their own needs. This means we owe it to ourselves to create certainties close to home . The realities of this pandemic means there is, and remains, a worldwide need for 
high qualit y face masks. I’m proud that DSM and VDL stepped up quickly to respond, enabled by fast 
decision  making and short communication lines between our two companies which has accelerated 
our progress when it is needed most.”
 
Case stu dies 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  38 How we support the S DGs  
SDG 3: Ens ure healthy lives and promote well -being for all at all ages  
The DSM  / VDL Gro ep joint venture will strengthen the EU healthcare system’s ability to respond to future waves of COVID-
19 and similar viral pande mics.  
SDG 9: Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation  
The DSM/ VDL Gro ep joint venture aims to restore PPE manufacturing and associated employment to the EU.
Purpose -led innovations  drive team performance  
Bringing together our complementary competences  in Nutrition and Materials, we helped 
professional cycling team Team Sunweb ( as of January 2021:  Team DSM) to take it to the next level 
in 2020 by ensuring health through nutrition on the inside and protection on the outside. The Team 
won multiple stages of the Tour de France and dominat ed the podium of the Giro d’Italia in 2020 , 
and is one of the top -ranked and most exciting young teams in professional road cycling .  
Challenge s in world cycling  
While professional sport must be exciting and showcase the athletic abilities of its participants, it must also be as safe as 
possible  for people and the environment. Although not a contact sport, professional cycli ng – with its high -speed crashes 
and limited possibilities for bodily protection – can place riders  in considerable danger . According to ProCyclingStats, the 
Tour de France averaged 1.5 crashes per stage,  while crashes in the one -day classics are even higher.  
Case studies  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  39 This demanding endurance sport places other stresses on the body, too, with riders exposed to all  types of weather, 
including long periods of potentially harmful sun light. Advanced protective riding  apparel in combination with  optimal 
nutrition  can support  performance  in these conditions, and can also support  immunity and recovery following injury . 
Our solutions  
Protective Dyneema® in cycling jersey s 
Challenged to develop a fabric that delivers maximum protection without reducing comfort or adding weight  and thus 
compromising performance, we created a Dyneema® fabric  for the Team’s  cycling jersey and baselayer . Team Sunweb’s 
partner  in 2020 , sportswear manufacturer Craft, developed a solution that provides effective protection against abrasions 
sustained at speeds of up to 60  km/h. Even at speeds higher than 60 km/h, the Dyneema® fibers help reduce the severity 
of any open wounds that may occur, shorten ing recovery times for injured riders.  
Lightwei ght, breathable rain jacke t 
We also introduced a lightweight, breathable rain jacket with an environmentally friendly  Arnitel® membrane. This 
polyester -based membrane is 100% fluorine -free, lowering its environmental impact by 70% compared to 
polytetrafluo roethylene (PTFE) membranes. It offers excellent protection from the rain and wind that often accompany cold 
weather.  
Nutritional supplements  supporting health and immunity  
The Team ’s riders were provided with several DSM nutritional supplements supplied v ia their nutritional partner 
NAMEDSPORT> during 2020.  
-Veg-Omega 3  fueled with our plant- based Life’s™OMEGA  is 85% more potent than fish oil ; it improves muscle and
nerve functions, protects against cardiovascular disease, and supports wound recovery
-To sup port gut health and immune response, the riders  are also using Probiotics Sport by NAMEDSPORT >,
incorporating lactic acid bacteria produced by DSM BioCare Copenhagen ; one daily serving contains more than a
dozen  different strains of lactic acid bacteria
-NAMEDSPORT> supplies the team  with soft vision gums fueled by FloraGLO ® lutein and OPTISHARP ® zeaxanthin
from DSM ; these nutritional supplements help protect the riders ’ eyes against blue light rays emitted by sunlight, to
which they are extensively exposed when riding , while t he use of vision gums improves riders’  reaction time, which
is a crucial consideration  in cycling
Su
n protection  
Last but not least, the Team’s riders benefited from using M illennials ’ sunscreen  essence SPF 30 formula  containing our 
PARSOL®  SLX and PARSOL® Shield  to protect them from exposure to the sun during their long hours in the saddle.  
Read more about how we support Team DSM  here. 
Our impact 
So successful was our strategic partnership with Team Sunweb in 2020 that in December we announced we were taking it 
to a new level and that Team Sunweb would become Team DSM  as of 1 January 2021. Team DSM will benefit from  the full 
innovation power of DSM , with the latest breakthroughs  in nutritional and material sciences enabling  the riders to be the 
Case studies  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  40 best that they can be, inside and out . We w ill gain direct insights and fee dback from some of the most demanding 
customers in the world – professional  athletes – in order to better develop sustainable solutions that can help others 
remain healthy and strong and keep them performing  safely for longer.  
Building on half a decade of innovation collaboration , our partnership  extends  beyond the exchange of products and 
expertise alone.  By becoming synonymous with  such a young, successful, principled team, we hope to trigger wider action 
for more sustainable living and health through nutrition . This  will help further our purpose  to create brighter lives for all 
through our scientific and innovation power.   
Working together will help deliver better health outcomes  for people and for the planet , with our nutrition and 
sustainable living solutions benefiting Team DSM, our  customers, and society as a whole .  
Stronger together  
“This is truly a dream. The involvement of  DSM at this scale will definitely help us set new standards 
with the best nutrition and materials giving us a competitive edge inside and out. We have so much in 
common with DSM; a passion for innovation and sustainability, high ethical values and much mo re. 
The bike is a beautiful symbol of sustainable health and we are very keen to support DSM in ensuring more people recognize there are solutions to some of the world’s biggest challenges. For a sports team like ours, having the chance to elevate our relevance from sporting excitement to contributing to big global themes is something we are very, very proud of and is definitely an ambition for all of us.”  
Team DSM CEO
 Iwan Spekenbrink  
How we support the SDGs  
SDG 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote well -being at all ages  
The insights from this partnership with professional athletes will guide our development of  sustainable solutions that have 
the potential to  help others remain strong, healthy and performing safely for longer.  
SDG 12: Ensure sustaina ble consumption and production patterns  
The Arnitel® rain jacket is based in a polyester -based membrane that is 100% fluorine -free, lowering its environmental 
impact by 70% compared to polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) membranes.  
Moving forward, we  will also work with BioRacer  and Team DSM to integrate bio -based Dyneema® fibers into the cycling 
jersey fabric – contributing to a circular and low -carbon economy with reduced consumption of natural resources and 
lower environmental imp act. 
SDG 14: Life B elow Water 
The omega -3 for our plant -based Life’s™OMEGA  are derived from algae  and not fish , which means  no depletion of the 
oceans ’ fish supply.  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  41 Stakeholders  
Our purpose can only be realized by working with our stakeholders1. Through empowering our employees, engaging with 
our customers and suppliers, and with the support of our investors, we will create a stronger legacy and brighter futures 
for generations to come. We discuss topics that are relevant to our operations and our impact on society regularly with 
our stakeholders. These conversations shape how we define and execute our strategy, including risk management, materiality, and new business opportunities.  
Our stakeholders  
Emplo yees 
Our people are our most important asset, and our employees represent 120 nationalities1, working at more than 2 00 sites 
and offices in almost 50  countries worldwide. The safety, health and well -being of our people is our highest priority and we 
aspir e to provide an incident - and injury -free working environment  for everyone, including our contractors. We continued 
to deliver on o ur People & Organization (P&O) strateg y, while developing a new expression of our culture and preparing 
our new P&O s trategy.  For information on how we engage our employees, see People . 
Customers  
Our customers are key stakeholders. They drive our business  and through our collaborations, we enable solutions that 
help solve some of the world’s biggest problems.  For information on our business and customers, see Nutrition , Materials  
and Innovation . For information on how we engage with our customers, see Customers . 
Investors  
Capital providers play a significant role in the success and prosperity  of our company. They support us in our pursuit of a 
long-term oriented strategy which aims to continually create value for shareholders while offering a low- risk environment 
for debt holders.  For more information on how we communicate with investors, see Investors  and elsewhere in this Report.  
Suppliers  
Our supply chain consists of more than 3 9,000 suppliers. Our suppliers are important partners for achi eving our purpose, 
and we work closely with them through our Sustainable Procurement Program , comprised of our supplier development  
and evaluation program, our scope 2 program  and our scope 3 program . For more information on how we work with our 
suppliers,  see Suppliers . 
Society  
We engage with society at multiple levels — from local community initiatives , to collaborations with universities and 
research in stitutes . We work with NGOs and civil society  toward solutions for societal issues, and advocate with 
governments and society  on important issues relating to the Sustainable Development Goals  and the Paris Agreement . 
We also engage in philanthropic and sponsorship activities to the yearly amount of approximately €6 million for the 
coming period. As outlined in our Code of Business Conduct, we do not make political donations.  For more information on 
how we engage with these stakeholders,  see Society . 
“We continue our support of the UN Global Compact, and remain 
committed to reporting our progress within this framework via this 
Report.” 
Geraldine Matchett and Dimitri de Vreeze, Co -CEOs, Royal  DSM 
1 All data presented in Stakeholders  are subject to the non-financial reporting policy . Report by the Managing Board – Stakeholders  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  42 How we create value for our stakeholders  
Our Value Creation model i s based on the Integrated Reporting <IR> framework  and gives an overview of how we create 
value for our stakeholders based on six  capital inputs : Human capital , Societal & relationship capital , Natural capital , 
Financial capital , Intellectual capital and Manufactured capital. We cluster these six capitals into People, Planet and Profit.  
We transform our capital inputs into value and  positive impact through taking advantage of the opportunities and 
minimizing the risks around the relevant megatrends in our business. A key part of our strategy, aside from our financial 
targets, is to continuously strengthen our commitment to sustainabi lity. Through our business model, business strategy 
and purpose, we aim to have a positive impact for People, Planet and Profit, and deliver our share toward the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).  
More information on how our Value Creation model  and the definitions of the six capital, are provided in 
Explanation of 
some concepts and ratios . 
Capital Inputs1 
 People   Planet   Profit  
Our employees represent more than 
120 nationalities in almost 50 
countries. We engage with our 
stakeholders and partners to achieve our Purpose . We consume raw materials (including 
renewable and recyclable materials), energy from renewable and non -
renewable sources and water. We employ shareholder equity and 
borrowings to invest in partnerships and innovation. We purchase goods and services that are used  in our 
manufacturing assets . 
23,127  
Employees  21.5 
Primary energy use (PJ)  €7,399 
Shareholders’ equity (million)  
29:71 
Gender ratio (f:m)24 
Water withdrawal (non- once-
through cooling,  x 1,000 m3)€3,586 
Borrowings (million)
Inputs : Inputs:  Inputs:  
-Employees
-Training & development
-Stakeholder engagement &Public -private partnerships
-Philanthropy & sponsorship-Raw materials (including bio -
based and recycled -based
materials)
-Energy (including renewablesources)
-Water-Shareholder s’ equity
-Borrowings
-Partnerships
-Scientific environment and
academic infrastructure
-Purchased goods & services
-Manufacturing footprint
Our Business Model  
We are a purpose -led, performance- driven organization developing innovative solutions addressing Nutrition & Health, 
Climate & Energy , and Resources & Circularity. Our organizational and operating model is made up of market -facing 
business groups (clustered in three business segments) focused on the primary business functions, global support and 
functional excellence departments, and reg ional organizations. Our Brighter Living Solutions — solutions that are better 
than the mainstream reference solution for people and/or the planet — account for 63 % of our net sales.  
1 All data presented in the People and Planet  columns are subject to the  non-financial reporting policy . Data presented in the Profit 
column relates to continuing operations.  Report by the Managing Board – Stakeholders  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  43 Percentage of net sales by en d -use market (continuing operations ) 
12% 12% 6% 5% 37% 
Food & Beverage  Dietary  Supplements  Early Life Nutrition  Personal Care  Animal Nutrition  
6% 4% 6% 
 12% 
 Automotive / Transport Electrical / Electronics  Medical Phar ma Other  
Va
lue Outcomes1 
People  Planet  Profit  
The safety of our employees is our 
highest priority. Investments in 
training and career development provides value for employees and stakeholders. We aspire to pay a living wage to all our employees. Our products support improved nutrition  
and a more sustainable food system.  We work to reduce our environmental 
footprint  and support the reduction of 
the footprints of our value chain partners . Our products enable the 
transition to a more circular economy and contain safer in gredients and 
materials . We aim to deliver a strong financial 
performance, enabling us to re -invest 
in our asset base, fund our purpose -
driven innovations , pay stable 
(preferably rising ) dividend s and 
provide good returns to our bondholders . Our tax policy  follows 
the letter and spirit of the law.  
0.24 
Frequency Index recordables  
 13.2 
Scope 1 + 2 + 3 emissions  
(million tons CO 2eq) €1,534 
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing 
operations (million)   
76% 
Employee engagement60% 
Purchased renewable electricity€955 
Adjusted net operating free cash 
flow (million)
Outcomes : Outcomes : Outcomes : 
-Safety & health
-Brighter Living Solutions
-Engaged workforce
-Skills & employability
-Employee benefits
-Improved nutrition-Reduced environmental footprint
-Brighter Living Solutions
-Enabling the transition to a more
circular economy
-Safer ingredients & materials-Financial performance (Adjusted
EBITDA and Adjusted ne t
operating free cash flow)
-Interest payments, capital gains /losses and return on i nvestment
-Total Shareholder Return,including d ividend
-Contribution to civil society viawages, taxes and social securityincluding pensions
-Contribution to business success
for customers and  suppliers
1 All data presented in the People and Planet  columns relate  are subject to the non -financial reporting policy . Report by the Managing Board – Stakeholders  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  44 Impact and SDGs1 
People  Planet  Profit  
-Better fed and healthier
individuals and communities
-More prosperous and resilient
employees for our company andin our value chain-More sustainable use of
resources, for our company andin ou r value chain
-Products that contribute to safer,healthier wor king & living
environments-We are p urpose -led,
performance- driven  through
science- based sustainable
solutions
-Sustainable returns to investors
-Positive contributions toeconomic growth in the countriesand markets in which we operate
Materiality  
In order to assess material topics that are both of interest to society and have impact on our businesses, we annually update our materiality analysis. In 2020, we conducted a 
light materiality analysis  compared to the full analysis for 
Materia lity Matrix 2019.  
Our update in 2020 used the Materiality Matrix 2019 as its point of departure. An initial analysis was conducted through 
desk research  into peers and other institutions to validate the topics from 2019 and to identify any potential new ma terial 
topics. Direct feedback on the proposed topics was obtained through an employee workshop  and a stakeholder dialogue . 
The results were reviewed and validated by the Executive Committee. The resulting matrix was compared with the Corporate Risk Assessment to make sure all relevant topics were captured from a materiality and/or risk perspective. Finally, the matrix was reviewed and approved by the Managing Board.  
Changes in 2020  
Two new topics emerged as warranting their own place in the Materiality Matrix: ‘Cybersecurity’ and ‘Consumer behavior & activism’. The topic ‘Biodiversity’ has been renamed ‘Nature & b iodiversity’. No topics have been deleted. The impact of 
COVID -19 on th e Materiality Matrix was discussed extensively . The impact was seen across several of the material topics 
however, COVID -19 or Pandemics have not been included as a separate topic.  This was consistent with the outcome of the 
Corporate Risk Assessment
. 
For more information on materiality, see Management approach for material topics . 
1 All data presented in the People and Planet  columns are subject to the non -financial reporting policy . Data presented in the Profit 
column relates to continuing operations.  
Report by the Managing Board – Stakeholders  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  45 Materiality matrix 2020  
Collaborative platforms and networks  
We collaborate with like -minded organizations through platforms and networks that contribute to our purpose of creating 
brighter lives for all. These collaborations are chosen to amplify and accelerate our advocacy efforts in support of a 
transition to more sustainable economic models  on topics that align to our Focus Domains of Nutrition & Health, Climate 
& Energy, and Resources & Circularity. Collaborative platforms and networks such as these can help formulate new 
solutions , and measurement and performan ce methods , as well as roadmaps for business contributions  toward 
achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). In this section, we describe some of the most significant initiatives. Due to the impact of COVID -19 in 2020, many of the major events of these platforms and networks, such as the WBCSD 
Council meeting and the One Young World summit, were postponed or went completely virtual.  
Supporting our stakeholders during COVID -19 
In 2020, we provided resources and know -how to support our internal and external stakeholders during the Corona crisis.  
Around the world, we made in -kind and cash donations for the provision of personal protective equipment, disinfectant, 
test kit equipment, and immunity -optimizing micro -nutrients to help ease the impact of COV ID-19 through various local 
and global initiatives . We also implemented initiatives in -house such as the #optimizeyourimmunity campaign, which are 
described in more detail in Safety, health & well -being . Climate & Energy
Resources &
Circularity
Water securityNature &
biodiversity
Leadership and
developmentLabor practices &
human rightsNutrition
& Health
Occupational
health & safety
Internationalization &
diversityInnovation
Advocacy , engagement
& partneringGeopolitical shifts
& (trade ) dynamicsBusiness ethics
& transparency
Product
stewardship
Digital
transformationCybersecurity
Consumer behavior
& activismLow HighSocietal Interest
Business ImpactEnvironment
Social
Business and Governance
Moderate Signiﬁcant MajorReport by the Managing Board – Stakeholders  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  46 APAC  
DSM Japan donated school meals and nutrition services  as emergency relief via WFP to children who were impacted by 
school closures. In India, we partnered with the United Nations Development Progra m (UNDP) to co -fund and procure 
electronic ventilators for hospitals. Over 350 employees also contributed to the fund. DSM Singapore supported the 
Migrant Workers’ Centre, a local NGO, with funds and nutritional supplements  to support migrant workers  and t he 
volunteers at the Centre. Donations were also raised in Korea, Indonesia and the Philippines.  
Europe  
In the Netherlands, in a strategic cooperation with Auping and AFPRO filter, we manufactured face masks  for healthcare 
workers. We manufactured 2.8 mil lion nose swabs  (sufficient to meet the country’s testing needs for three months ) and 
converted a manufacturing facility to produce disinfectant  which was donated to Dutch hospitals. In Delft, we contributed 
expertise and facilities to support TNO, a Dutch research institute, to develop a fast test for COVID -19. 
In the Rhine Valley region, our site in Grenzach (Germany) began small -scale manufactu re of hand sanitizer  that was used 
on site, donated to local healthcare institutions, and shared with neighboring companies. In Village -Neuf (France), 
donations of personal protective equipment and sanitizer were made to elderly care homes.  
Latin America  
In collaboration with some of our main customers, we provided at low, or no cost, ‘DSM Baskets’ containing food and 
hygiene items  for people in need in Brazil. We also donated 70,000 fortified milk cans for social distribution in poor 
communities.  
North Ame rica  
We donated Immunity Stix , and masks to first responders, hospitals and veterans’ homes, supporting front -line healthcare 
workers. Two of our Resins sites switched from the production of resins to the production of hand sanitizer . Donations of 
face shields and other equipment were made by many other DSM sites.  
Cross -domain initiatives  
World Economic Forum (WEF)  
We are a strategic partner of WEF. We actively participated in the annual meeting in Davos in January 2020 as well as WEF’s  
virtual events thro ughout 2020. In 2020, our Co -CEO Geraldine Matchett became a member of the Steering Committee of 
the Consumer Governors and the  Food Security Stewards.  She also co -chaired the Jobs Reset Summit. Our Co -CEO Dimitri 
de Vreeze also joined  the Steering Committ ee of the Chemical Governors . Both spoke at various virtual events of the 
Forum.  
Report by the Managing Board – Stakeholders  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  47 We actively contributed to several initiatives in 2020, including the COVID Action Platform , the Stakeholder Principles in 
the COVID Era , the CEO Consumer Industry Action Grou p, the CEO Chemical Industry Action Group and the Food Action 
Alliance. Our VP Organizational Development & Culture  joined the WEF Community of Chief Diversity & Inclusion Officers  
and participated in its roundtable events.  
The SDG Tent  
During the WEF Annual Meeting 2020, in collaboration with partners including Salesforce, Yara and Cargill , we continued 
the SDG Tent , a venue for discussing business engagement for achieving the SDGs. Several highly successful events were 
hosted at the SDG Tent.  
World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD)  
We are a member of WBCSD and participate in various working groups and coalitions. In 2020, our Co -CEO Geraldine 
Matchett was appointed to WBCSD’s Executive Committee . 
Food & Nature  
We are a founding mem ber of  Food Reform for Sustainability and Health (FReSH) project  and a Board member of the 
Food & Nature Program , with the aim  to drive food system change. In November , the WBCSD Food and Nature Program  
published the ‘Healthy & Sustainable Diets’ Chapter of the new ‘ Food & Agriculture Roadmap’. This Roadmap builds on 
existing scientific and agri- food sector recommendations ( from organizations including  EAT-Lancet, FOLU, FABLE, WHO -FAO, 
and WRI), a nd comes up with calls to action for companies to support bet ter consumption choices, produced in a socially 
and environmentally responsible manner.  
Circular Economy  
Factor10  is WBCSD’ s Circular Economy program and throughout the year , we continued to co -lead the  circular metrics 
workstream , which launched a harmonized set of indicators for measuring circularity on company level at WEF  in Davo s. We 
also continued our  participat ion in the circular bioeconomy workstream . In November, the  Circular Bioeconomy report  
was published, highlighting the opportunit ies, industry conditions and enablers  and trends, as well as corporate case 
studies including  cases from  DSM. We are piloting the online  Circular Transition Indicator tool  in the WBCSD Chemical 
Sector User group.  
Redefining Value  
Redefining Value is WBCSD ’s program supporting external disclosure  and decision -making. Before her appointment to the 
WBCSD Executive Committee, Ms. Matchett was on this program’s board. Early in the year, The Enterprise Risk Assessment  
project group published their report An enhanced assessment of  risks impacting the Food & Agriculture sector . We joined 
the Company Book working group , a collaboration looking to build a company- centric solution for (non -financial) data 
collection and analytics for stakeholder interactions.  We continued to  participat e in the Assess and Manage Performance 
project, exploring performance management practices that build long -term business success within a healthy, sustainable 
ecosystem . 
Climate & Energy, and Vision 2050 
We are also active within the WBCSD  Climate Policy W orking Group , the Climate  & Energy Program , the Chemicals group, 
and the Vision 2050 Refresh project . WBCSD’s Vision 2050 is a vision for the world  of 2050 in which more than 9 billion 
people can live well, within planetary boundaries. It was first introduced in 2010. The ‘refresh’ of Vision 2050 aims to 
support businesses to accelerate the transformations needed, by providing a common narrative and resource to inform 
their strategic and sustainability agendas.  
Accounting for Sustainability  (A4S)  
A4S brings together leading CFOs to help embed the management of environmental and societal issues into business processes and strategy, particularly through the finance function. Ms. Matchett is a signatory to the 
A4S CFO Statement of 
Support for t he TCFD recommendations  and the A4S CFO net zero Statement of Support . 
In 2020, we participated in various virtual events and meetings, including the participation of two of our senior finance leaders in the 
A4S Academy , a program which provides an opportu nity to senior finance leaders to broaden their 
perspective on sustainability, the impact it has on business , and how companies can contribute. It enables participants to Report by the Managing Board – Stakeholders  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  48 connect with peers from other companies from a variety of industries to deepen their understanding and obtain  practical 
insights into social and environmental risks and opportunities. We shared our approach on risk management , 
demonstrating how sustainability risks are embedded in our overall risk management approach in a webinar titled ‘ Lead 
the Way: Managing Future Uncertainty ’.  
Dutch Sustainable Growth Coalition (DSGC)  
The DSGC is a CEO -led coalition of eight Dutch multinational corporations which aims to drive sustainable growth 
business models  that combine economic profitability with environmental and social progress and thus contribute to the 
achievement of the SDGs. To accelerate this transition in the Netherlands  and abroad, the Coalition wants to lead the way 
and pursues a strategy of Scale – Share – Shape . 
In 2020, the Coalition i ssued a whitepaper Internal Transformation to a Purpose- Driven Organisation  providing a roadmap 
for companies on how to undergo an internal transformation to become truly pur pose -led. Together with the SDG Charter 
and CSR Netherlands , the DSGC urged the Dutch Government and EU Commission  to aim for stringent Green Recovery 
policies  to respond to  the socioeconomic consequences of the COVID -19 pandemic.  
Climate & Energy initiatives  
Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC)  
We continue to drive carbon pricing  and share our experiences on the topic through the Carbon Pricing Leadership 
Coalition (CPLC). The CPLC’s long -term objective is for effective carbon pricing  to be applied throughout the global 
economy. In addition to facilitating leadership dialogues , the CPLC, together with partners, is also mobilizing business 
support to put an internal price on carbon. We apply an  internal carbon price  of €50 per ton CO 2eq when r eviewing large 
investments and acquisitions, and we include this in internal management reporting by the business groups.  
RE100  
Our engagement with RE100, the world’s leading campaign to scale up the corporate sourcing of renewable power , 
continued through out 2020. We participated in the learning opportunities, conferences and advocacy opportunities offered 
to us in Europe, the US and China. In 2020, we were one of three shortlisted companies for Best Green Catalyst award  for 
the RE100 Leadership Awards .  
We Mean Business  
We Mean Business activates hundreds of companies and investors to commit to low-carbon initiatives . Our Vice President 
Sustainability sits in the Business Advisory Board. In 2020, we worked on several advocacy and communications activities 
that called for governments to urgently match their ambition and policies to limit global temperature rise to 1.5°C  above 
pre-industrial levels, couple COVID -19 recovery effort  with climate action, and demonstrate the private sector’s support 
for these eff orts.  
Global Center and Commission on Adaptation (GCA)  
We have partnered  with the Global Center on Adaptation (GCA) , particularly by lending our expertise in  food security , and 
helping smallholder farmers manage risks and climate shocks  through Africa Improve d Foods (AIF), but also by mobilizing 
the private sector to adopt an integrated strategy to address climate adaptation alongside climate mitigation efforts.  
Taskforce on Scaling up Voluntary Carbon Markets  
We are a member of the Taskforce on Scaling up Voluntary Carbon Markets, a private sector -led initiative working to 
improve the credibility and functionality of an effective and efficient  voluntary carbon market  to help meet the goals of 
the Paris Agreement. The taskforce is providing insights and recommended actions for the most pressing pain -points facing 
voluntary carbon markets.  
Science Based Targets Initiative: Net -Zero Expert Advisory Group  
We joined the Net -Zero Expert Advisory Group in 2020. This group will develop a standard to guide the formulation and 
assessment of science -based net -zero targets  in the corporate sector led by the Science Based Targets Initiative. The 
standard is expected to be the basis for driving the adoption of corporate net -zero targets that are consistent with action 
needed to limit warming to 1.5°C while minimizing trade -offs with other Sustainable Development Goals.  Report by the Managing Board – Stakeholders  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  49 Resources & Circularity initiatives  
Platform for Accelerating the Circular Economy (PACE)  
PACE is a public -private collaboration platform that aims to catalyze global leadership from business, government and civil 
society to accelerate the transition to a circular economy. Our Co -CEO Dimitri de Vreeze represents DSM on the Global 
Leadership Group , which includes over 40 CEOs, Ministers and heads of international organizations.  In 2020, PACE engaged 
with its members to create circular economy action agendas  focusing on four major material flows: plastics, electronics, 
food systems and textiles. We  participated in interviews and supported the review of the action agendas for plastics, 
electronics and food systems.  
Ellen MacArthur Foundation  
The Ellen MacArthur Foundation works with and inspires business, academia, policymakers and institutions to re -think, re -
design  and build a positive future circular economy . In 2020, our  employees attended the Foundation’s Network 
Workshops and Annual Summit  online. In addition, the Foundation offered a series of circular economy trainings (basic 
and advanced) and webinars which w ere made available to our employees. One of these webinars was about the 
importance of design choices for a circular economy  and featured a speaker from DSM -Niaga. We also continued to take 
part in the sounding -board of the Foundation’s  circularity metrics  work  throughout the year, supporting the development 
and launch of their Circulytics 2.0  in November.  
Circle Economy 
In 2020, we continued our membership with Circle Economy, a social enterprise that emphasizes practical and scalable 
solutions in the transition toward a circular economy. Circle Economy launched its Circularity Gap Report  for the 
Netherlands  early in the year , which emphasized the role of the chemical sector  to help accelerate the transition by using 
more alternative, regenerative sources  for production. W e continued our involvement in the Circularity Gap Report 
Roundtable to provide input  for, and review the next version of , the Circularity Gap report, which is scheduled for 
publication in early 2021.  
Champions 12.3  
In 2020, our co -CEO Geraldine Matchett became a member of Champions 12.3, a coalition of executives from governments, 
businesses, internationa l organizations, research institutions, farmer groups, and civil society dedicated to inspiring 
ambition , mobilizing action , and accelerating progress  toward achieving Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) Target 
12.3 by 2030. SDG 12.3 calls for cutting in ha lf per capita global food waste  at the retail and consumer level, and reducing 
food losses along production and supply chains (including post -harvest losses) by 2030. The coalition also highlighted  how 
DSM is using science to fight food loss and waste across the value chain with its solutions.  
Nutrition & Health initiatives  
The DSM Malnutrition Partnerships and Programs  (MPP) team addresses malnutriti on through public -private 
partnerships, while strengthening our consumer -oriented new business model ‘ Programs in Emerging Markets’ . Through 
our partnerships, we learn about effectively creating impact for vulnerable and last -mile population groups. These 
learnings drive our innovation efforts  to create new solutions that address the needs of consumers in emerging and 
previously underserved markets.  In addition, MPP offers opportunities for talent development  through exchange 
programs. In 2020, three DSM em ployees worked as long- term secondees or on a (part -time, virtual) consultancy project for 
our partners, benefiting from unique opportunities for personal and professional development.  
UN World Food Programme (WFP)  
In place since 2007, the DSM -WFP partnership ‘Improving Nutrition, Improving Lives ’ aims to improve the nutritional value 
of the food that WFP distributes. Together, we reached 30  million direct beneficiaries in 2019  (the most recent reporting 
period) with food improved by the DSM -WFP partnership . Many more were  reached through the partnership’s efforts in 
scaling up  fortified rice  both through retail channels and in social safety nets, with work underway to develop a framework 
to measure this reach. Equall y importantly, the partnership programs create long-term  systemic impact  by raising 
awareness on the importance of nutrition while continuing to develop new scientific and technical solutions. Accordingly, 
within the current Memorandum of Understanding from 201 9–2021, the partnership is prioritizing  rice fortification  as a 
proven and cost -effective solution for combating malnutrition, with our partnership’s activities supporting 15 countries Report by the Managing Board – Stakeholders  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  50 globally. Additionally, as the humanitarian organization is moving  towards cash -and-voucher systems , the partnership is 
supporting WFP ’s Nutrition Division’s retail strategy to empower consumers to improve their own nutrition and diets.  
UNICEF  
The DSM –UNICEF partnership has been in place since 2013. The partnership with UNICEF and Sight and Life supports the 
Government of Nigeria in realizing its vision of scaling up the  micronutrient powder  (MNP) program nationally, reaching 
people suffering fr om malnutrition . It has contributed to reaching over one million children with vital nutrients  that have 
helped save many lives, and the goal is to further scale up the MNP program to reach two million children by the end of 
2021. Meanwhile, the partners a lso collaborate to create an enabling environment for  multiple micronutrient 
supplementation  (MMS), a cost -effective solution to reduce maternal anemia and the risk of children being born 
underweight, too small, and too soon.  
The Social Movement on Nutriti on program  
The partnership expanded to India by supporting the UNICEF engagement of private- sector stakeholders as part of the 
government’s Social Movement on Nutrition program . The collaboration focuses on mobilizing the private sector around 
nutrition li teracy, through the platform Impact4Nutrition (I4N),  which was established in March 2019. In 2020, the platform, 
which won an internal UNICEF INSPIRE award , had more than 70 companies on board.  
Addressing agri -food business development  
Furthermore, this pa rtnership is being expanded to address agri -food business development as one of the Global 
Breakthroughs identified by  Generation Unlimited (GenU ), a part of the United Nations Secretary General’s Youth 2030 
Strategy. The key objective of this expanded cross-sectoral partnership  is to embed a longer -term vision for Sustainable 
Food Systems (GenU SFS) in Africa  and build an environment along the agri-food value chain  conducive to thriving, 
sustainable and inclusive business. The partners will develop a business plan to attract  young people and prepare them to 
contribute to  sustainable food systems  in a way that creates nutrition and food business at scale.  
World Vision International  
Our partnership with World Vision and Sight and Life , with the  slogan of ‘Joining Forces for Last -Mile Nutrition ’, aims to 
bring prosperity and good nutrition  to the most vulnerable communities in the Global South . Leveraging the unique 
capabilities and know -how of each partner, we design and implement  sustainable ma rket-based solutions  that bridge the 
gap between public and private efforts for improving nutrition and fostering local economic development.  For example, the 
partners worked on solutions for maize in Rwanda, e ggs in Indonesia and distribution channels in Brazil.  
The maize value chain in Rwanda 
In Rwanda, the partners enable transformation of the  local maize value chai n, ensuring a more efficient, inclusive and 
sustainable supply chain. Partners work with and enable smallholder farmers through training  and market access, while 
working on improving the quality of , and access to , raw materials for AIF in Rwanda. After positive results of the initial pilot, 
the partners are now collaborating for scale -up. AIF’s Super Cereal product  is now benefitin g 31,600 children and 19,600 
women as part of World Vision Rwanda’s COVID -19 response.  
The EGGciting project in Indonesia  
The EGGciting project in Indonesia focuses on eggs as an important source of nutrition  and works to increase the  
availability, accessi bility, and consumption of eggs at the household level in Sulawesi (Indonesia). Partners address 
bottlenecks in the supply chain and improve the quality of feed, while driving demand on the consumer side for improved nutrition by use of 
social marketing  that stimulates the consumption of eggs as a nutritious product.  
Social distribution of nutrition in Brazil  
In Brazil, market research to support the  social  distribution  of nutritional products  started in 2019. This pilot is projected 
to transform the di stribution of micronutrient -enriched products in Brazil by incubating last-mile nutrition (female) 
entrepreneurs  who serve populations living in hard -to-reach areas. The goal is to improve the accessibility of nutritious 
products for peri -urban poor, while  stimulating empowerment and income of (young) women.  Report by the Managing Board – Stakeholders  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  51 Partners in Food Solutions  
Partners in Food Solutions (PFS) works to increase the growth and competitiveness of  food companies in Africa . These 
aims are achieved by inspiring business leaders and linki ng highly skilled corporate volunteers from a consortium of 
leading companies including DSM, Cargill, General Mills, Hershey, Bühler, Ardent Mills, and J.M. Smucker Company  with 
promising entrepreneurs  and other influencers in the food ecosystem . The seven  corporate partners have empowered 
hundreds of entrepreneurs to work toward stronger, more resilient food value chains across the African continent.  
In 2020, DSM employees contributed almost 1,300  volunteer hours working with 46 African clients across 11 c ountries. By 
sharing expertise, the volunteers were able to assist  local entrepreneurs in growing their businesses and supporting a 
supplier base of more than 85, 000 farmers. In total , 57 DSM volunteers supported 59 service offerings  to clients , of which 30 
clients are owned or managed by women.  
Scaling Up Nutrition (SUN)  
The SUN Business Network (SBN) — co-hosted by the Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition (GAIN) and WFP — is the 
private -sector branch  of the SUN Movement . It aims to support b usinesses in growing the role they play in nutrition and 
to support SUN countries in developing national business engagement strategies . The SBN is established in 14 countries 
and support s the development of new networks in 12 countries. These include almo st 1,000 companies, mostly small and 
medium -sized enterprises. The global membership platform  currently has 23 members, who have a combined workforce 
of 1.1 million employees.  Our Honorary Chairman Mr. Feike Sijbesma is a member of the Lead Group of the SU N Movement 
and Co -Chair of the Advisory Group of the Network. Our Vice President Emerging Markets is on the Operations Committee 
of the SBN. 
Supporting SBN projects in Africa 
We supported several SBN projects focusing on Sub -Saharan Africa. Together with the SBN global team, we built on the 
impact and energy of the first ever Nutrition Africa Investor Forum (NAIF)  which reframed the dialogue around nutrition 
and supported the Global Pitch Competition 2020 . As an SBN global member, we support the implementa tion of SBN 
principles, notably around workforce nutrition commitments ; overweight, obesity and diet -related non -communicable 
diseases; and the delivery of technical assistance to national SBNs and their members. We advocate for business to take a 
leading role in these important issues and collaborate with SBN for stronger business accountability  on nutrition and for 
the adoption of SMART nutrition pledges by business (UN Food System Summit, Nutrition for Growth Summit).  
Africa Improved Foods  
Africa Improved Foods (AIF) is an African social enterprise addressing the food challenges facing Africa by building resilient food systems by sourcing, manufacturing and selling
 nutritious, affordable and accessible products . AIF was launched in 
2016 in Rwanda as a public -private partnership between the Government of Rwanda  and a consortium of DSM, the Dutch 
Development Bank (FMO), DFID Impact Acceleration Facility managed by CDC Group plc (CDC), and the International Finance Corporation (IFC), the private -sector arm of the World Bank Group. AIF produces 
fortified food s made mainly from maize 
and soybean sourc ed from over 130,000  smallholder farmers in the region. These products include mineral - and vitamin -
rich porridge s, and help meet the nutritional need s of vulnerable population groups such as pregnant and breastfeeding 
mothers, older infants and young children.  
AIF’s Kigali factory contributes to the local and regional economy  
AIF’s Kigali factory employs over 300 skilled workers with well -paid jobs. R egional procurement of goods and services ( such 
as transport ation ) has led to indirect economic development  across East Africa. With a reach of over  1.6 million 
consumers daily, AIF contributes significant benefits to the African economy. AIF has proven that this model can be profitable while contributing to SDG 1 ( No Poverty), SDG 2 ( Zero Hunger) and SDG 13 ( Climate Action).  
Positive results in 2020 despite the pandemic  
In 2020, AIF concluded its third full year of business with a positive EBITDA  result. Despite COVID -19, revenue is expected to 
grow slightly to just over  USD 50 million  as Super Cereal Plus  sales maintained momentum. Business -to-consumer  sales 
also grew  significantly as the Nootri brand  continues to gain popularity across East Africa. The year  also mark ed the 
beginning of AIF’s new ambitious growth strategy, with groundwork in Ethiopia and production of fortified porridges and 
cereals started at a new facility in Kenya.  Report by the Managing Board – Stakeholders  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  52 MANDI  
In 2020, we continued to expand MANDI (Making A Nutritional Difference to India), a socio -commercial consumer products 
business  delivering local nutrition and home fortification  solutions that are affordable and convenient. The range of 
home fortification products branded as Nu-ShaktiTM include s solutions for staples such as rice and wheat flour, as well as 
fruit-flavored fortified beverage powder. The business aims to build awareness and education about the importance of 
health, nutrition and immunity  with the  aim of  tackling widespread malnutri tion in India. In 2019, we started distributing 
through trade partners in modern and traditional retail channels in Tamil Nadu, a state in South India. In 2020, the COVID -
19 disruption that began in  March halted the expansion plans.  
Sight and Life  
As a gl obal leader in nutrition,  Sight and Life  Foundation uses science to change the way nutrition is delivered to people 
who need it most, specifically women and children.   
With the support of DSM,  Sight and Life  delivers value to the  nutrition community  by tra nslating science into effective 
nutrition programming , building public- private partnerships, and developing viable social business models  for affordable 
and nutritious foods.   
In 2020, Sight and Life  delivered nutritious food during the COVID -19 pandemic i n Rwanda, South Africa, and India . The 
egg hub social business model in Malawi, making eggs available and affordable to low -income households, proved 
successful and sustainable by producing 3.5 million eggs annually. Sight and Life  secured a Grand Challenges India Award 
to innovate around egg powder, also supported by Children’s Investment Fund Foundation in Ethiopia. Five companies now 
incorporate the OBAASIMA seal, aiming to create demand for nutritious and affordable food in Ghana. On the t opic of 
workplace nutrition , IMPAct4Nutrition, a public -private platform, was honored with a UNICEF Global INSPIRE Award in ‘Best 
Multistakeholder Engagement’. Sight and Life  mentored young entrepreneurs to develop climate- smart nutrition and 
pandemic -proo f innovations through Elevator Pitch Contests.   
New publications focused on key themes, including multiple micronutrient supplementation (MMS), consumer insights, and 
take-home rations, sharing science -based evidence and expert knowledge. For more informat ion, visit:  sightandlife.org . 
Initiatives complementing the Focus Domains  
Catalyst  
We continued to be a Global Supporter of Catalyst — the NGO accelerating women’s progress in the workplace . Our 
Honorary Chairman Mr. Sijbesma continued his role on the Board of Directors and Ms. Matchett her role on the European 
Advisory Board.  
In 2020, w e continued to sponsor the Catalyst work program on Women and The Future of Work. This long -term program 
focuses on building more human -centric  workplaces  with strong social values, which are prepared for the impact of 
technology and rapid change , by ensuring equity in future employability. As part  of this program we participated in, and 
contributed to, research activities and roundtable events.  
We provided input to the ‘How we Lead with Inclusion during the Crisis ’ reports. In addition, colleagues from our  Inclusion 
& Diversity network participated in Catalyst virtual workshops  on: ‘Emotional Tax in the workplace’, ‘Driving Inclusion 
During the Disruption: The Strategic Advantage of ERGs (Employee Resource Group)’, ‘Unconscious Bias to Inclusive 
Leadership Virtual Workshop’, ‘Understanding Gender Equity Workshop’, and International Women’s Day 2020: Now Is The 
Moment To #BiasCorrect’. We also used Catalyst resources on ‘ Candid Conversations About Racism and Sexism in the 
Workplace ’ for internal program development . 
Valuable 500  
In 2020, DSM joined t he Valuable 500 organization – a global NGO aimed at unlocking the social and economic value of 
people living with disabilities  across the world. Our  new In clusion  & Diversit y strateg y incorporates a focus on Disability  
and a new Employee Resource Group (ERG) called ‘ The Valuable’ group  was established to represent the interests of DSM 
employees with disabilities. Valuable 500 resources and experts have supported the team to develop the agenda.  Roy
al DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  53 Report b y the Managing B oard – Stakeholders 
One Y oung W orld ( OYW)  
The One Young W orld Summit g athers 2, 000 young l eaders from m ore than 190 c ountries and al l sectors, e mpowering 
them t o make l asting c onnections t o generate positive change for  sustainable d evelo pment. I n 2020, ou r OYW delegation 
comprised 1 8 colleagues representing a ll our businesses and r egions and i s our  10th OYW d elegation. Thi s delegation w ill 
attend t he Munich S ummit w hich h as been postponed t o Spring 2021, d ue to the COVID -19 pandemic.  
Working on business  development a nd internal en gagement 
The c ommunity o f over 1 20 OYW a lumni ( including o ur new 2020 cohort) m anage different business d evelopment a nd 
internal e ngagemen t projects  for sustainability. I n 2020, the  community l aunched a Perso nal Carbon  Footprint C alculato r, 
a learning & development g ame called ‘ The D SM Sustainable C ity’ and a project o n Susta inable P ackaging , which h as 
already r esulted i n some p ackaging s ubstitutions resulting i n reduced co st and w aste. After t wo years of  progress, t he OYW 
2018 ‘Tomato Project ’ has r esulted i n a commercial p roduct in co llaboration w ith N urevas i n Ghana and the Swiss Federal 
Institute of Tech nology i n Zurich ( Switzerland ). Tomato s auce is for man y African  countries a wi dely u sed st aple food. In 
this p roject , a tomato sauce w as developed , fortified with a w ide range of v itamins a nd m inerals. Th e product w ill be 
introduced i nto t he West A frican m arket ea rly 2021. 
External r ecognitions 
We ar e proud w hen ou r efforts r eceive p ositive r ecognition f rom ot hers. Be low is a selection o f some aw ards an d 
recognitions t hat w e received from N GOs an d trade or ganizations, c ustomers,  suppliers a nd academia i n 2020.  
Chemical W eek gave DSM f irst p lace in the Be st Sustainable Program  category o f the inaugural  Chemical W eek 
Sustainability Awa rds. The aw ard recognized h ow DSM incorporated s ustainability a nd circularity i nto the c ompa ny DNA 
through ou r product p ortfoli o and c orporate s trategy. 
We were listed a s one of t he most s ustainable c ompanies i n Brazil according t o the Exame  Sustainability G uide for ou r 
challenge t o improve p ublic h ealth t hrough nutrition .  
General M otors (GM)  recognized D SM Engineering M aterials with a Supplier Q uality E xcellence Award i n 2020. This i s the 
fifth t ime i n the pa st six years that DSM has received t his award. 
DSM China was selected for the third time as on e of the 2 020 Golden Be e CSR China Honor R oll companies  by Golden B ee 
Think T ank and China S ustainability T ribune . The 15th International C SR Forum with the them e ‘Responsibilit y Builds 
Corporate Resilie nce’ wa s held in Beijing on 6 Augus t. 
The T sukuba Plant of Jap an Fine Coating ( JFC) w as selected as ‘ Model Plant ’ and ‘Excellent Plant of H azardous Ma terial 
Safety’ by the Japan A ssociation f or Safety of H azardous M aterials ( JASHM) for i ts excellent s afety r ecord a nd outstanding 
safety b ehaviors. I t also won t he ‘Ibaraki P refectural G overnor A ward’ f rom t he Ibaraki A ssociation f or Safety of 
Haza rdous M aterials . As a result, th e plant will be f eatured i n JASHM ’s safety tr aining v ideos. 
SABRE Awa rds Latin Am erica, one of the most r ecognized branding a nd communication awards i n the  world, recogn ized 
our ‘L ife In Our Ha nds’ commun ication campaign  as the best in the r egion  in the M anufacturing Industry c ategory.   
ESG R atings and Benchmarks 
Sustainability i s at the heart o f our business. It i s our core value: w e see it a s a key responsibility a nd an important 
business d river. Th is is reflected b y our inclusion i n several E nvironmental, S ocial, Governance (ESG) B enchmarks a nd 
Ratings many of  which rate us a (sec tor) leader. 
Given the large number of prevailing ESG benchmarks, participating in each and every one of them is not feasible for any 
company, so we annually review and prioritize our participation. We are in favor of further consolidation and 
standardizati on of the ESG benchmarks as we believe this will encourage more companies to participat e than is currently 
the case. Report by the Managing Board – Stakeholders  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  54 Our annual review of the ESG benchmarks to participate in, is based on the following criteria: 
-Recognition  and use by our stakeholders, including our investors
-Transparency  of methodology
-Primary reliance on publicly accessible  information
-Avoidance  of additional administrative work
-Provision of sufficient feedback  to participating companies to enable them to make meaningful year -on-year
improvements
Our p
riorities in 2020, and the outcomes, are listed below.  
In January, we were assessed by Sustainalytics  as being at low risk of experiencing material financial impacts  from ESG 
factors, ranking 1 out of 120  companies  in the specialty chemicals industry.  Sustainalytics noted our strong corporate 
governance performance resulting in a reduction in overall risk.  
In March, EcoVadis  awarded our company a Platinum CSR Rating . The Platinum rating places us in the top 1% of 
companies assessed in our industry.  
We maintained the lowest risk rating (1 out of 10) from  ISS QualityScor e throughout the year. In May , ISS ESG reconfirmed 
DSM as  ‘Prime ’ according to its rating methodology. Our rating of B- puts us in the top decile relative to our industry group.  
In June, MSCI’s rating of DSM was unchanged at  ‘AAA’ . The report noted our increased focus on nutrition and health, our 
focus and investment in  R&D, and our strong carbon mitigation strategy, including the link with executive compensation. 
In October, we were again listed in the Vigeo Eiris Benelux, Europe, Eurozone and World indices  and were reconfirmed as 
a constituent of the  Ethibel Sustainab ility Index (ESI)  Excellence Europe and the Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) 
Excellence Global.  
We continued to be a constituent of the  FTSE4Good Index . We have been listed on this index since 2004.  
In December , for our climate strategy , and water govern ance and strategy  in 2020 , we were assessed as A and A - 
respectively by CDP. Ro
yal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  55 People  
At a glance  
-0.241 Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries , compared to 0.28 in 2019
-76% Employee Engagement Index, compared to 74% in 2019
-21% Female executives , compared to 20% in 2019
-29:71 female:male ratio
-75% Inclusion Index . compared to 72% in 2019
-100% of our employees were offered  imm unity -optimizing supplement s
A year shaped by COVID -19, transformation and a new People & Organization strategy  
In 2020, as the COVID -19 pandemic unfolded, taking care of our people was more important than ever. Many of our efforts 
to support the mental and physical health and well-being of our employees, as well as our continued commitment to 
inclusion and diversity, human rights and employee engagement, are detailed later in the first part of this section. We 
continued to deliver on our People and Organization (P&O) strategy, and, in adapting ourselves to a significantly changed context, shaped a new P&O strategy for the coming period.  
Focusing on our people through the pandemic  
This extraordinary year required us to focus more than ever on our people, ensuring their safety. health and well -being
, as 
well as engaging everyone  within the context of the new normal we were faced with.  
Inclusion  was key to make sure everyone felt listened to and cared for, no matter what challenges they were faced with. 
New company leadership required and created an opportunity to shape the way the Co -CEOs would engage with people 
and lead. The combination of all  these factors was expressed through a new Culture Compass , providing direction on who 
we are and what we stand for at DSM.  
Delivering on our P&O strategy  
While the pandemic brought a stronger focus on pillars such as Culture and Inclusion & Diversity, we continued our journey on all the other pillars of the P&O strategy
 as well. Changes to our organization including integrating three recent 
acquisitions and one announced divestment  brought new challenges from a people perspective. Our businesses 
continued their customer  and operating model  journeys  through programs such as Fit for Growth and Agility to Grow. We 
stepped up further in our ambitions for Inclusion & Diversity  and focused on employee development  through the launch 
of new tools and programs across the company. As committed to in 2019, we also continued our investment in Human 
rights , with signif icant steps taken in fair remuneration and living wage. 
Preparing our future P&O s trategy  
The extraordinary circumstances of 2020 — new leadership at the top; a pandemic disrupting our views about work, 
workplace and workforce; and a continued company transformation — called for a new P&O strategy , which was shaped in 
the second half of 2020 and launched toward the end of the year. The new strategy is both a continuation and an evolution 
of our current strategy, wi th a focus on ‘ Creating a Flotilla O rganization ’, ‘Empowering Our Employees ’, ‘Creating a 
Contemporary Workplace ’, and ‘ Resetting the Context for Leadership ’ — all anchored in our DSM Culture Compass. The first 
steps for this new strategy started at the end of 2020, with the launch of the Culture Compass, the pilot of a new 
technology for career development, and the launch of a concept of Hybrid Workplace for our ‘Next Normal’ way of working.  
Aligning our People approach with the Materiality Matrix  
Our approach to People aligns with a number of material topics:  
-Occupational health & safety (addressed in Safety, health & well -being )
-Labor practices & human rights (addressed in Human  rights )
1 All data presented in People  are subject to the non-financial reporting policy . Report by the Managing Board – People  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  56 -Leadership & development (addressed in Delivering on the six levers of our strategy )
-Internationalization & diversity (addressed in Inclusion & Diversity )
Focusing o n our people through the pandemic  
Safety, health & well -being  
The health, safety and well- being of our employees has always been our number one priority. In 2020, as the pandemic 
unfolded, we were able to leverage and build on our strong foundations. Many of our office -based employees around the 
world worked from home for large parts of the year, while — with notable exceptions in some regions — our operations 
and research & development colleagues largely continued to work from laboratories and plants in ad justed, safe 
conditions.  
We actively monitor occupational safety and process safety — the safety of our people and operations. We also support the 
health and well- being of our employees through regional and global programs.  
Aspiration  2020  2019 
Occupational safety1 
-Frequency Index REC 0.25 in 2020  0.24 0.28 
-Frequency Index LWC 0.09 0.09  
Process safety  
-PSI Rate 0.15 in 2020  0.20 0.23  
Occupational health cases  19 16 
1 All data presented in People  are subject to the non-financial reporting policy . 
Occupational safety  
Occupational safety is the safety of our employees and contractors. In 2020, we were able to build on the robust practices 
put in place in previous years. We saw a further improvement in the Frequency Index of all DSM Recordable Injuries to 0.24 from 0.28 in 2019, achieving our target level of 0.25.  
Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries  
12 month moving average  
DSM Target REC-rate All 2020: 0.25
01/16 07/16 01/17 07/17 01/18 07/18 01/19 07/19 01/20 07/200.00.10.20.30.40.5 Rate for Lost Workday Cases (LWC), DSM-own
 REC-rate, DSM allReport by the Managing Board – People  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  57 A fo
cus on key sites was key to progress  
Our focus on sites with the highest numbers of recordable injuries continued to deliver results, and we saw incident rates 
decrease by 40% compared to 2019 at these sites. Many key elements of our safety program contributed to thi s progress, 
such as the ‘I Care, We Care’ campaign, the drive for visible leadership, the enhancement of key capabilities and the constant attention on hand safety (our top incident category). We also continued to reinforce the importance of the Life Savin g Rules in our safety approach. The Frequency Index of Lost Workday Cases for our employees remained at  0.09. 
Contractor safety  
For our contractors, the Frequency Index of all Recordable Injuries  remained relatively stable at 0.47 in 2020 (from 0.45 in 
2019).This was despite better supervision and increased attention to contractor selection, qualification and training , which 
led to significant improvements in the parts of the organization where incident rates where the highest . 
A commitment to continuous sa fety improvement 
While the progress on the Recordable Injury rate and the impact of our focus programs are promising, we will continue to strive to make our company fully incident and injury free. To this end, we will drive our standardization and digital capabilities, for example, through the use of comprehensive safety dashboards that leverage data to identify key focus areas and implement improvements at all levels. In addition, we continue to develop our automated processes to learn from our growing dat abases. Furthermore, by improving our transparency we can better execute our safety programs all 
over the world.  
Another key pillar of our journey on digital safety is our growing library of online training programs. This resource was particularly valuabl e in 2020, when COVID -19 restrictions limited our in -person training programs.  
Process safety  
Process safety refers to the safe operation of our facilities. In 2020, our Process Safety Rate improved from 0.23 to 0.20, b ut 
we missed our target of 0.15. The reduced rate can be attributed to, for example, the asset improvement programs that began in 2019, now taking effect. We also paid special attention to sites where the most incidents occurred in the past: this  
resulted in  an approximately  60% reduction (compared to 2019) of small product leakages, which account for the majority 
of reported incidents.  
Frequency Index of Process Safety Incidents  
0.28
0.190.220.23
0.2
2016 2017 2018 2019 20200.00.10.20.30.412-month moving average  Target 2020Report by the Managing Board – People  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  58 We carry out diligent follow -up  procedures to ensure that we learn lessons from process incid ents. This, alongside our 
employees’ growing understanding of and compliance with our Life Saving Rules, is helping to prevent the most potentially 
serious incidents.  
Health and well-being  
Our health management system is based on prevention, primary care and the promotion of good health. T he COVID -19 
pandemic brought new direct and indirect challenges in ensuring the health and well -being of our employees. In line with 
local risks and conditions, as well as the guidance and legislations of regional and national authorities, we scaled up our response to the pandemic and put in place a wide range of COVID -19-related practical initiatives and educational programs 
to protect the health and well -being of our employees and their families. Early in 2020, we install ed a Global Response 
Team to COVID -19 in order to install relevant safety and health measures throughout the company. Through this approach, 
we were able to facilitate the rapid deployment of regional learnings globally, and we were able to rapidly respond  to the 
evolving situation.  
“As the pandemic unfolded in 2020, taking care of our people was 
more important than ever. We undertook a wide range of initiatives 
designed to support the physical, mental and emotional well -being 
of our people. I am proud of the resilience, engagement and care demonstrated by all of our employees this year  — and we are 
committed to continue our focus on ‘People’ through our unique culture of care, courage and collaboration.” 
Cristina Monteiro,  Executive Vice President People &  Organization  and member of the DSM Executive Committee  
Monitoring well- being through the pandemic  
We calibrated our response to the pandemic by carefully monitoring how our employees were coping with the situation. 
Starting in April, we conducted COVID -19 Pulse Checks every two weeks, which provided us with ongoing, up -to-date 
insights into how people felt about the pandemic and which highlighted  any areas of concern. This was a central element 
of our efforts to deliver a healthy and inspiring work environ ment, even as our working practices changed and our people 
navigated the difficulties of the pandemic.  
Our Pulse surveys have shown that employees value the flexibility offered by home working and question the need to go 
into the office when doing so has no added value for their work output. This was confirmed by feedback from our focus group on the ‘Next Normal’. COVID -19 has also affected employee sentiment around trust and job security, as exemplified 
by an increase in Employee Engagement Survey respondents indicating they want to stay at DSM.  
#Optimizeyourimmunity   
Starting in April, we provided all our employees — as well as some of their family members — with a free selection of 
immune -optimizing micronutrient supplements as part of the #optimizeyourimmunity initiative. The supplement selection 
was regionally adapted based on local legislation , and contained v itamin C, v itamin D, o mega -3 and z inc, among other 
micronutrients. In addition, we implemented a series of regional webinars to educate employees on the importance of immunity in fighting pathogens such as microbes and viruses.  
COVID -safe work and workplaces  
Furthermore, as well as requiring our employees to work from home when stipulated by regional rules or guidance, we adapted many of our workplaces and behaviors to minimize the risk of spreading the corona virus. Daily temperature checks, entrance- and exit -door hand sanitization, one -way corridors, the prioritization of hand hygiene, social distancing, 
and the avoidance of non -essential travel were among these many precautionary measures. All these measures aligned 
with local and regional guidance and legislation.  Report by the Managing Board – People  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  59 The agreed terms and conditions for our employees in 2020  r emained in force d uring the pandemic . Regular annual cycles 
were processed, whereby all salary increases, individual merit increases and incentive schemes were implemented without 
reservation . Measures were taken to support employees who faced additional costs as a conseque nce of the lockdown (for 
example, travel costs in locations where public transport was suspended during lockdown ). In addition, in  recognition of 
the enormous effort employees undertook to continue delivering for our company under sometimes difficult 
circu mstances, a special bonus was awarded to all our employees.  
Supporting our employees’ physical and mental health and well -being  
Many of our initiatives to safeguard and protect the physical health and well -being of our employees were organized by 
our regional teams. For example, we made advanced health screenings and checks available to employees, offered flu 
vaccinations, installed a global 24/7 hotline and delivered kits containing reusable masks, sanitizing gel and soap, as well 
as educational materials, to employees and their families.  
In addition, the COVID -19 pandemic increased our focus on the mental health and well -being of our employees throughout 
the year. Many of our sites put in place a variety of employee assistance programs — involving web inars, private 
counseling, educational campaigns, and the distribution of self -help material — which offered emotional, psychological 
and occupational support. In addition, these assistance programs featured online learning and development initiatives to enable flexible and convenient personal growth during the pandemic.  
Preventative measures for occupational illness  
Beyond our pandemic -related efforts and initiatives, we aim to prevent occupational illness through the design of our 
processes and products a nd by providing proper protective equipment. On -site medical professionals offer primary care 
including emergency preparedness and first aid. We continuously promote good health via a wide range of activities, following an approach based on global campaign ing and local implementation.  
We recorded 19 occupational health incidents  in 2020, a slight increase over 2019. These were mainly categorized as 
ergonomic issues and allergic reactions. We aim to cut down the number of such cases and are exploring the ben efits of 
ergonomic aids. We also aim to strengthen the understanding and deployment of global  health  standards for workplace 
assessments on, for example, chemical exposure and noise management.  
Employee engagement  
As a responsible organization, we work har d to offer an employee experience where everyone can feel safe, valued and 
included, and where every employee can offer their unique contribution. An engaged workforce is essential for our 
organization to have impact and deliver on our purpose,  and engaging with our employees in a year such as 2020  was 
crucial. We did so in a variety of ways, with online webcasts, virtual family days  and employee events, regular newsletters 
and regional events with  our Co-CEOs, and executive calls and annual conferen ce. 
Aspiration  2020  2019 
Engagement Index1 75% by 2020  76% 74% 
Participation Rate  92% 92% 
1 All data presented in People  are subject to the non-financial reporting policy . 
To measure our success and better understand how and where we can improve — as well as to track the impact of internal 
and external forces and changes — we monitor our employee engagement and well -being  through a variety of surveys and 
‘check -ins’. In 2020 , these included our  coronavirus  Pulse Checks, our Employee Engagement Survey  (EES) , a specific 
integration survey following our acquisition of Erber Group , a recurr ing Fit for Growth follow -up survey, and a n inclusion 
survey in Latin America . Data from al l these surveys enables us to continue to improve our employee experience.  
Further to this, we employed additional  communication efforts to keep employees informed and engaged. These included  
chat sessions with the Co -CEOs and regional , virtual  discussion sessions in conjunction with the Culture launch , also with 
the involvement of the  Co-CEOs. Report by the Managing Board – People  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  60 The Employee Engagement Survey  
Ou
r annual Employee Engagement Survey generates high -quality information that helps us understand how our employees 
feel at work, where we need to improve our employee experience and what solutions we can implement. The responses we 
receive enable us to initiate fruitful conversations and lead to concrete positive changes in our workplace.  
In 2020, managers whose team included five or more survey respondents were eligible to receive specific team reports online; this amounted to more than 1,900 managers (an increase of 470 compared to 2019). To help managers share results with their teams, lead conversations and agree actions, training a nd support were available from local engagement 
champions as well as P&O and communications colleagues.  
How we measure Employee Engagement  
We measure four engagement attributes: commitment, pride, advocacy and satisfaction. The 2020 EES retained the struct ure and content of the previous survey, comprising questions on safety, engagement, management, inclusion and 
other key themes, but we also introduced three new questions that were specific to each business group. This meant our business groups received mo re targeted insights into employee engagement as well as allowing us to identify topics that 
we can investigate further in future surveys. The EES also offered space for employees to provide comments: 39,400 comments were received in 2020.  
Engagement levels remain high 
In 2020, the survey was sent to all employees (excluding contractors) and was available in 22 languages. We saw a response 
rate of 92%, equal to the highest recorded rate (in 2019) since the first edition of the survey in 2007.  
Overall employee engagement  increased by two percentage points to 76%, and all our comparable questions and indexes 
saw an increase. We made progress in our 2019 focus areas : Talent rose from 63% in 2019 to 67%  in 2020 ( including an 
improvement on the question relating to  learning a nd development opportunities from 68% to 74%) ; and Inclusion from 
72% to 75% . We also improved our already high Safety score (from 91% to 93%) . The Strategy question on employees’ 
perspectives of the company’s ‘ promising future ’ increased from 79% to 81%.   
Above all, the results underline the positive effects of our active efforts to maintain high levels of engagement during the pandemic through strong and clear communication, new work flexibility and more visible leadership. Our targeted engagement improvement programs have also had a positive effect according to the received responses, with improved 
scores seen in some of the units  that previously received low scores .  
Identifying and addressing areas for improvement  
Based on the survey results, our overal l focus areas for 2021 are Talent, Inclusion, Well -being and Management. 
With regard to Talent, despite improved scores in 2020, we must continue to apply our efforts in several key areas. These include meeting our employees’ career development and learni ng expectations, continuing to build an inclusive work 
environment, safeguarding employee well -being through ‘Next Normal’ working patterns and integrating people -centric 
management and leadership practices.  
In the area of Inclusion , we will  continue to wo rk on creating inclusive environments and creating stronger trust that 
diverse perspectives are valued for women in senior management positions . The continued activation of our Inclusion and 
Diversity S trategy plans , including ‘ Brighter Together ’, support for employee resource group (ERG )-led programs, and 
embedding  ‘Next Normal ’ rituals for inclusive working, will be part of this continued inclusion effort.  
For Well-being, t he ‘Next Normal’ working patterns, combined with ongoing COVID -19 health uncertainties require a 
responsive focus on employee well -being. In this area , we plan to further investigat e well-being issues (included for 
example in the COVID -19 pulse  survey)  and the setup  of a ‘Sustainable Performance’ program.  
Finally, in the Management focus area, the results in 2020 indicate the positive effects of manager -focused development. 
Building on this foundation, we will work to embed good practices into DSM people management everywh ere. In this way, 
we will continue to roll out management skills in areas such as feedback, ‘courageous conversations ’, and team 
development , and use the change in performance management behaviors  to accelerate a positive company  culture.  Report by the Managing Board – People  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  61 Inclusion & Diversity 
In 2020, our employees faced new challenges such as working from home, combining work with caregiving or 
homeschooling, and managing their own and their family’s health. Ensuring that all our people felt included and cared for became more of a priorit y than ever. Fostering and maintaining an inclusive and diverse workplace is key to helping 
our employees offer their best, most authentic contribution, and is, therefore, a prerequisite to delivering on our strategic goals. While shifting social forces brought Inclusion & Diversity to the top of social and corporate agendas over the course of 2020, we began work on a new Inclusion & Diversity strategy in January, involving the input and support from global employee focus groups, senior leaders and external  partners.  
2020  2019 
Inclusion  index1 75% 72% 
1 All data presented in People  are subject to the non-financial reporting policy . 
A new Inclusion & Diversity  strategy  with a new governance framework  
Launched in October, t he strategy  broadens the scope of  our existing Inclusion & Diversity focus . In addition to gender and 
internationalization, the new Inclusion & Diversity strategy now also includes the focus areas of disability, generations and 
LGBTQ+. As such, three  new Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) were established: Generations (age), BLEND (r ace, ethnicity 
and national identity) and V aluable ( disability), supplementing our  existing ERGs WIN ( women  and gender) and Rainbow 
(LGBTQ+).  
To
 support our new Inclusion & Diversity strategy, a new governance framework was established. It follows a business- and 
region -led approach and provides a seat at the table for all the global leads of the five ERGs. Each of the focus areas has 
an Executive Committee sponsor, while the revised Inclusion & Diversity Council is chaired by the Co -CEOs.  
Alongside these activities, we continued to focus on existing Inclusion & Diversity commitments and targets. By the end of 
2021 our target s are 25% women and 35% under -represented nationalities on executive level. Embedding these targets into 
people and organization change decisions will ensure we hardwire diversity into the DSM of the future. In 2020, we improved 
our Inclusion Index from 72 % in 2019 to 75% in 2020.  
External relations and support  
DSM works with a broad range of external partners — including non- profit organizations, industry peers and public 
institutions — to build inclusive and diverse workplaces. Most notably, these includ e Catalyst , World Economic Forum , 
Workplace Pride , and the Valuable 500 .  
Report by the Managing Board – People  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  62 Developing a new expression of our company  culture  
In 2020, the impact of COVID -19, the appointment of our new Co -CEOs, global social movements demanding a more equal 
society and a generational shift toward more human, empathetic workplaces, among other contributing factors, led us to 
re-examine our organizational culture and its role in supporting our purpose and ambitions. Through contributions from 
across our organization, we defined and launched our Culture Compass.  
Purpose -led, Performance -driven  
Our
 Culture Compass  steers our purpose -led journey  
The Compass is a navigational tool that helps us steer our company  to where we aspire to be, while reflecting our purpose-
led and performance- driven strategy. Our purpose  (‘Creating brighter lives for all’) is at the center. In particular, we deliver 
performance by being more of who we are (courageous, caring and collaborative), and by m aking decisions every day that 
show what we stand for (taking responsibility, championing sustainability, and delivering value).  
Activating o ur Compass 
In 2020, we activated the principles of our culture in our organization by building a network of Culture Champions and active ly 
involving employees in the translation of core elements to themselves and their daily work. The Culture Compass was 
launched via several webcasts for executives and for employees, and as of 2021, we will focus on anchoring the core values 
of the Compass into our key People processes.  
Delivering on our P&O strategy  
Delivering on the six levers of our strategy 
The 2020 pandemic brought a strong focus to  two of the key pillars of the 2018 P&O s trategy: Culture, and Inclusion and 
Diversity. However, throughout the year, we continued to deliver on all of the six strategi c levers: Operating model, 
Customer -centricity, Internationalization & diversity, Leadership & development, Team by team and Culture / The DSM 
Ways of Working.  
Report by the Managing Board – People  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  63 Aspiration  2020  2019 
Internationalization & diversity1 
Female executives  25% by 2021 21% 20% 
Under -represented nationalities  35% by 2021  30% 31% 
Training  
Training hours per employee  6 8 
1 All data presented in People  are subject to the non-financial reporting policy . 
Welcoming our colleagues from recent  acquisitions into DSM  
In 2020, in line with our ambition to strengthen our growth in the health and nutrition markets, we worked on the 
integration of three new businesses, thereby welcoming more than 1,700 new employees. These businesses share our 
purpose- led approach, and our new colleagues will bring complementary expertise and important values. More 
information on these acquisitions can be found in Nutrition .  
The three- phase approach with Royal CSK  
Our acquisition of dairy solutions provider CSK  in late 2019  saw around 160 colleagues join our  workforce. We share a 
strong cultural aff inity, which has helped the integration process progress smoothly. The integration process was split into 
three phases. First, the CSK organization was integrated into the DSM Food Specialties structure. The second phase involved connecting CSK’s sites  to the DSM operations  network . The final phase was completed with the harmonization  of 
compensation and benefits. In 2021, we will focus on further onboarding  our new  colleagues  and finalizing the remaining 
minor changes to organizational structures, allowing  us to focus on seizing the commercial and sustainability opportunities 
ahead.  
A smooth transition with Glycom  
Glycom, a human milk oligosa ccharides company , brought 143 new colleagues to DSM. Glycom’s well -established culture of 
responsibility, innovation and safety fits well with our values at DSM. During the course of the integration project, a new management team was established, and an I nnovation and Business Development department was set up. Furthermore, 
the integration project allowed a number of business support teams including Legal, Finance, Operations, IT, P&O and IP to make a smooth transition to our organization. Any remaining or  ongoing activities in 2021 will be overseen by the functions 
that are already fully integrated.  
A shared commitment to onboard Erber Group  
More than 1,400 employees in over 40 countries joined DSM as a result of our acquisition of Austrian -based Erber Group  in 
late 2020 . The acquisition comprised the specialty animal nutrition  and health  business, Biomin, and food and feed 
diagnostic solutions  business, Romer Labs.  We established a n integration project team covering a range of  businesses and 
functions . The  team’s first  focus was on implementing  working teams, gaining a joint understanding on the businesses and 
functions, and establishing  our ways of working and an initial  100-day plan. For 2021, the focus will be on establishing an 
Operations team, defining an integrated way of working for support functions as well as identifying the best a pproach for a 
joint go -to-market team.  
Optimizing our Operating Model  
As described by our value creation model , our operating model is composed of our market -facing business groups, which 
are grouped in clusters, as well as our global support and functional excellence departments, and our regional 
organizations. In 2020, in line with the turbulence of the markets we operate in, we developed and optimized our operating 
model, leveraging internal synergies and connecting dig itally with customers. These organizational adjustments will help 
our teams and people work effectively and efficiently.  
Demonstrating our Nutrition is Fit for Growth  
In 2020, DSM Nutritional Products launched the Fit for Growth program. By simplifying ou r operating model and further 
improving business steering, the program aimed to further enhance our abilities to serve customers and respond to the needs of the respective end -markets. At the same time, it applied a differentiated go -to-market approach to better capture 
commercial opportunities and prepare us for continuously changing market dynamics.  Report by the Managing Board – People  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  64 Our Materials Cluster shows its Agility to Grow  
De
signed in late 2019, and launched in 2020, our Materials cluster’s Agility to Grow program has sought to drive efficiency, 
effectiveness and productivity by leveraging synergies across our business groups to deliver an organization that responds 
quickly and flexibly to evolving market conditions. The program focuses on seizing opportunities across three functio nal 
workstreams: Procurement, Operations and Innovation.  
Evolving to serve our customers  
Many of the wider developments in 2020 underlined that, in a fast -changing world, it is more important than ever to put 
customers first. Nevertheless, travel restrict ions and social distancing measures relating to the pandemic meant that many 
of our conventional ways of connecting to customers were impossible. As such, our teams and people around the world adapted to the circumstances and connected to our customers in new, digital ways. Our overall Net Promotor Score
 of 50 
for 2020 compared to 41 in 2019, shows that our customers appreciated our efforts to connect digitally and to listen to their  
needs.  
Indeed, our service to customers was underpinned by our efforts to build and maintain resilient and agile teams. For much of 2020, many of our office -based teams around the world interacted digitally and operated remotely, while our operations 
and research teams mainly continued  to work on site  
Reinforcing Leadership and development, Team by team  
In 2020, management styles were also adapted, with online team -building activities being encouraged and organized 
around the world. At the same time, we also moved many of our people development programs and initiatives online. 
As part of our efforts to drive the effectiveness of our teams and better serve our customers, we launched Feedback Empowers. This global initiative aims to build feedback into our daily processes and make it part  of our daily behavior, in 
order to accelerate change and growth across DSM, and drive the impact of our people. Feedback Empowers involves virtual classrooms, digital toolkits with useful tips, and other resources designed to improve employees ’ feedback s kills. 
Global champions drive the initiative and proactively engage with employees and managers . 
Regular performance and development evaluations play an important role in ensuring we are performance- driven and 
develop our people for roles today and into th e future. In 2020, almost 15,000 employees had access to the global digital 
evaluation tool for performance reviews. All other employees participated in performance evaluation on paper or by means of local systems.  
Driving Internationalization and diversity 
To serve our diverse markets and customers, our talent base must also be global and diverse. In 2020, we continued to 
focus on increasing  the representation of women and under -represented nationalities, as well as on fostering  an inclusive 
environment.  
At the end of 2020, 21% of DSM’s executives are female. This is 1% higher than in 2019 but still lower than our target of 25% . 
In addition, 30 % of our executives come from under -represented nationalities , which  is below the level of 2019 and below 
our target of 35%. Moving forward, we will continue to work on improving the representation of women and under -
represented nationalities within our  executive population  within the framework of our Inclusion & Diversity strategy. The 
diversity of our Executive Comm ittee and Supervisory Board is described in Corporate governance
.  
In 2020, Equileap ranked us second  of 100 Dutch listed companies for gender equality . Our position was due to our  
Executive Board and Supervisory Board ratio ( 57% and 42% female  respectively ) exceeding Dutch legislative requirements 
of 30%, our strategy to close the gender pay gap, and our commitment to the United Nations Women’s Empowerment 
Principles.  Report by the Managing Board – People  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  65 Human rights  
Our responsibilities around people extend beyond the health and safety of our employees. It is also our duty to protect 
human rights, which are integral to our purpose -led and performance- driven strategy. As such, we respect internationally 
recognized human rights in all our operations and throughout our value chain. We believe that the basic rights and freedoms to which all people are entitled should be understood, r espected and promoted by all companies as the 
cornerstone of socially responsible business.  
2020  2019 
Gender pay gap1,2 8% 9% 
Employees below a living wage  < 2%  -  
1 Gender pay gap percentages are in favor of women.  
2 All data presented in People  are subject to the non-financial reporting policy . 
We
 apply the International Labour Standards of the International Labour Organisation and we have been a signatory to the 
UN G lobal Compact since 2007. We respect the role of works councils and collective bargaining, and we work with these 
groups in the countries and regions where they are present. We promote employee empowerment and human rights 
protection, and we maintain dialogs with employees and representative bodies to enable this. 
Our Human rights position paper , available on our company website, sets out our govern ance structure, and our due 
diligence processes for identifying and mitigating risks.  Grievances relating to human rights are addressed according to the 
Code of Business Conduct  and our whistleblower procedure, DSM Alert . 
To embed an integrated approach on human rights, we have established a Human Rights Steering Committee: a 
representation and joint effort of  People & Organization , Sustainability, Legal, Procurement and Operations. Each of these 
department s is further represent ed in the human rights working group.  
Human rights in our own  operations   
Our approach to due diligence  
In 2020, we further rolled out our new due diligence approach, launched in 2019, which we use to assess to what extent our actual practice is consistent with our internal policies. This Human Rights Impact Assessment allows us to define our salient human r ights areas and how we can further identify business opportunities. This due diligence process contains 
four elements: country risk profiles , interviews with internal and  external stakeholders, workforce data analyses and an 
employee survey.  
Fair remunera tion  
DSM is committed to the principle of equal opportunities for all employees, which includes providing our employees with a 
living wage. We align our calculations with the Anker methodology ( Anker and Anker 2017 b). We also aim to reward our 
employees f or their overall contributions to the company, setting equal pay for men and women doing similar work that 
requires equivalent qualifications and skills. Our Fair Remuneration Statement
, available on our website, further elaborates 
our position on equal pay.  
Gender pay gap and equal pay  
We use the GRI 405 -2 reporting requirements as guidance for calculating our gender pay gap. In 2020, we extended the 
scope of our analysis with the addition of  India. The 2020 results showed a gender pay gap of  8% in favor of women, 
(female:male pay ratio of 108:100 ), a change of  one percentage point compared to 20 19, which is mainly due to scope 
change. This ratio is based on validated employee base pay data for locations where we have significant operations  
(defined as Brazil, China, India, the Neth erlands, Switzerland and the US, excluding Pentapharm [Switzerland and Brazil]  
and Jiangshan [Jiangsu Province, China])  and covers approximately 66% of our global employee base. The pay gap can 
primarily be attributed to a higher proportion of male employe es in lower -level positions.  
We aim to make further progress in the area of equal pay. In 2020, we partnered with AnalitiQs to develop an advanced analytical model that will allow us to investigate background variables in much greater depth and obtain usef ul insights. 
Analysis and validation on gender pay gap and equal pay will continue in 2021.  Report by the Managing Board – People  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  66 Living wage  
W
e are committed to paying a living wage to all our employees based on WageIndicator’s benchmark methodology. We will 
use a phased approach, beginning w ith locations where we have significant operations (defined above) and over the next 
few years we aim to broaden the scope with more countries. In 2020, we assessed wage levels against WageIndicator’s 
typical family with higher bound living wage figures. B ased on this assessment, less than 2% of employees in scope 
(approximately 200 people) are paid below the higher bound living wage figures; we will make the necessary changes in 2021 to ensure fair remuneration. In parallel , we will conduct an in -depth ana lysis to further investigate the root- cause.  
Addressing human rights in our supply chain  
Our Sustainable Procurement Program (SPP) handles potential labor and human rights issues that reside beyond our own operations. We assess suppliers for possible human  rights violations through sustainability assessments and audits from 
‘Together for Sustainability’ and EcoVadis. Details about SPP and our management of human rights issues can be found in Suppliers , and in our Modern Slavery Statement
, which is updated annually,  is available online. In 2021, we will focus on 
identifying specific risk areas throughout the whole supply chain.  
Preparing the future People & Organization strategy  
Over the past few years, we have demonstrated a strong focus on performance in line with our strategy. At the same time, 
a series of internal and external forces, trends and themes have emerged, requiring  new approaches from a People & 
Organization (P&O) perspective. In early 2020, we began designing a new P&O strategy with input from across our organization.  
Launched in the fourth quarter of 2020, the new P&O strategy will guide the focus of our P&O func tion in the coming years, 
define the investments in people by the Executive Committee, and help steer the company toward a better employee 
experience.  
The evolution of our business, the profound changes brought about by the pandemic, and a renewed leaders hip with 
changes in DSM’s Co -CEOs and Executive Committee have largely influenced the path forward for our P&O strategy.  
Building on the People dimension of Triple P  
Building on many of the elements and foundations of our previous strategy, the new strategy will involve a renewed focus on ‘People’ — a focus that is at least as strong as that for ‘Profit’ and ‘Planet’.  
Four focus areas, anchored in DSM’s Culture Compass  
The new strategy has our Culture Compass at its center  and aims to enhance our approach  to Organization, P eople, 
Workplace and L eadership, enabled by the right rewards.  
Report by the Managing Board – People  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  67 Creat ing a f lotilla -style organization  
The pace and depth of change we are faced with requires us to create a flotilla -style organization, with critical direction 
coming from the center, surrounded by agile units who are empowered to achieve our common goals. We aim to fuel our 
talent pool in e qually agile ways, through a more liquid workforce that replaces an exclusive direct employment model.  
Empower ing our people   
In a world characterized by high -pace change, digitalization, and business transformation, we aim to provide  a 
personalized and e mpowering environment for all our people to take ownership of their performance, development and 
careers while continuing to develop sustainable high impact as individuals.  
To this end, in 2020 we introduced , among other initiatives,  a new software platfo rm offering  a new and improved talent 
experience for  our people. By l everaging artificial intelligence technology , it facilitates the exchange of talents internally 
and externally.  
The chosen platform  supports our forward -looking approach to recruitment and career planning . It places greater 
emphasis on current skills, rather than past education or experience, and mitigates the impact of unconscious bias, 
enabling the complete masking of profiles.  
Based on the learnings of a pilot involving 2,600 employees in four countries  in the second half of 2020, we plan on further 
refining our approach to be able to expand our efforts and geographical scope in 2021.   
Creat ing a contemporary workplace  
The 2020 pandemic has led us to reevaluate our understandin g on work and the workplace, and led us to design a future 
vision of a more contemporary workplace, with an inclusive environment where diversity thrives.  
In 2020, we installed a dedicated, cross -functional global taskforce to develop directional guidance for our post -pandemic 
work practices, which resulted in a commitment to a ‘Next Normal’ built on the concept of the Hybrid Workplace.  
The Hybrid Workplace capitalizes on the benefits of working from a mix of home, offices , and other workspaces — while 
respecting local rules and regulations that may affect certain employees. Our  teams will define their own working 
arrangement based on their collective tasks,  and personal situations, in collaboration with line management . We also ask 
our people to think more responsibly about when and why they travel, so that  they can champion sustainability.  
To ensure we get the best from this balance, and that everyone feels included and able to make an impact, we will launch 
new working ‘Rituals’  in 2021. These will be accompanied by  regional policies to optimize local implementation , along with 
other initiatives to create a more modern and inclusive workplace.  
Resetting  the context for leadership  
The new context and way of working we aspire to demand that we develop our leaders as coaches who create the inspiring, empowering and inclusive environment  needed  for our people and our business to grow and to be successful.  In 202 0, we 
began developing a ‘Leading through Culture ’ program for all DSM people managers, helping our leaders to develop a 
deeper understanding of how culture is brought to life, team by team. The program will be further developed and rolled out in 2021.  
Enabling our focus areas with modern, flexible rewards  
We aim to change the way we reward our people to best reflect and enable our key strategic pillars. More flexible reward systems are needed to meet the diverse challenges and needs of our people and businesses. In 2020, we launched a new Recognition Framework that supports our people with a range of tools to recognize and emphasize key behaviors and accomplishments.  Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  68 Planet 
At a glance  
-25%1 absolute reduction  of scope 1 + 2 greenhouse gas emissions  versus baseline 2016
-~18% structural improvement of scope 1 + 2 greenhouse gas emissions versus baseline 2016
-5% scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions intensity improvement versus baseline 2016
-60% purchased electricity from renewable resources
-5.7% energy efficiency improvement, year -on-year
-4.8% water efficiency improvement, year -on-year
Acting on  our responsibilities in terms of  environmental stewardship  
We take our global environmental and social responsibilities  very seriously. These extend beyond our own operations to 
include those of our suppliers, customers and end -users . We fulfill our environmental responsibilities  through our 
portfolio of Brighter Living Solutions, our Safety, Health & Environmental (SHE) policy, and our position on issues such as 
product stewardship and biodiversity. We focus on:  
-Improving  our own environmental footprint
-Enabling  our customers  to do the same through innovative solutions
-Advocating  on our key environmental topics
Our operational footprint and approach to reporting  
Our operations network spans more than 110 commercial production facilities  in 40 countries. Our operational approach 
is led by the DSM Responsible Care Plan, described below, and supports the Sustainable Development Go als (SDGs), 
especially SDG 7 (Affordable and Clean Energy), SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption and Production) and SDG 13 (Climate Action), among others.  
We report our environmental performance according to the relevant material topics  
Our Planet reporting addresses  our performance on  several material topics identified in our Materiality matrix refresh : 
-Climate & Energy
-Resources & Circularity
-Water security
-Nature & biodiversity
-Product stewardship
Our environmental ambitions are defined in our Responsible Care Plan  
The DSM Responsible Care Plan (DRCP) i s aligned  with our strategy. The DRCP defines our ambitions, targets and actions 
in the fields of safety, health, environmental footprint, value chain sustaina bility, climate adaptation and security.  
Our key targets are our Science Based Targets  
The key targets in the DRCP are  our Science Based Targets, comprising  a greenhouse gas (GHG)  scope 1 + 2 emission 
absolute reduction of 30% and a GHG scope 3 intensity reduction of 28% by 2030 versus our 2016 baseline. These were 
reviewed and approved by the Science Based Targets initiative  in early 2019 and are the foundation for achieving our net 
zero by 2050 commitment.  
1 All data presented in Planet are subject to the non-financial reporting policy . Report by the Managing Board – Planet  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  69 Our scope 1 + 2 target is su pported by our renewable electricity target  (75% of purchased electricity to  be sourced from 
renewables by 2030) and our annual average energy efficiency improvement of at least 1%  until 2030. O ur scope 3 target 
is supported by the CO2REDUCE program.  
Next to mitigating climate change, we are also working on  climate adaptation . To improve the resilience of our assets 
against potential physical impacts of climate change, we conducted physical risk assessments  in 2020. This involved 
mapping high -risk areas and our top 30  sites for five emerging hazards and long- term impacts using two time horizons and 
three climate scenarios.  More information on our physical risk assessment is provided in Risk management . 
Our targets  on water, waste, emissions and substances of very high concern  
Our other company targets are driving improvements in the areas of water, waste, other emissions and substances of  high 
concern.  
We will continue to drive the different water -related improvem ents that we identified during the water risk assessments 
in the past year, whil e shaping even more context -based water improvement  plans  for 2021 onwards.  Furthermore , we 
continue to enhance our insights and capabilities to steer volatile organic compounds  and waste improvements  and we 
will develop  action plans for all products containing  substances of very high concern . 
In 2020 , we made good progress on the  key objectives of the DRCP. Additi onal information about our Planet performance  is 
provided in the S ustainability statements , our value creation model  and Stakeholder engagement . 
Climate & Energy  
In 2015, the Paris Agreement first established a common ambition to take urgent action on GHG emissions to limit 
average temperature increases to well below 2°C. Later in 2018, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) provid ed a clear and compelling case to redouble efforts to limit the warming to 1.5°C. Our fair share of this ambition 
requires our emissions to reach net -zero by 2050  with a rapid accelerati on of our rate of emission reductions over the 
coming decade.  These are defined by our net -zero commitment and Science Based Targets.  
Aspiration  2020  2019 
Greenhouse gas (GHG)1 
GHG emissions scope 1 + 2 absolute reduction versus 2016  30% in 2030  25% 25% 
GHG emissions scope 1 + 2 estimated structural improvement versus 2016  approx. 18%  approx. 17%  
GHG emissions scope 3 intensity reduction  28% by 2030  5% - 
GHG emissions scope 1 + 2 market -based (million tons)  1.24 1.17 
GHG emissions scope 3 (million tons)  12.0 11.6  
Energy  
Primary energy use (PJ)  21.5 21.2 
Final consumed energy (PJ)  18.2 17.4 
Energy efficiency improvement year -on-year > 1% 5.7% 2.3% 
Purchased electricity from renewable sources  75% by 2030  60% 50% 
1 All Climate & Energy data are subject to the non -financial reporting policy . 
Aligning our climate approach with science 
We were one of the first companies to align our efforts with the latest science as presented in the IPCC Special Report 
‘Global Warming of 1.5°C ’ by setting a long -term pathway to reach net-zero GHG emissions across our operations and 
value chains by 2050. Our Science Based Targets  are our foundation to achieve this goal, supported by our ambitions on 
renewable electricity and energy efficiency, and working intensively with our key suppliers through our CO2RED UCE 
program. Throughout 2020 and continuing in to 2021, we are working with long- term innovation roadmaps  to map 
pathways toward n et-zero emissions in the coming decades.   
As a complement to our efforts on climate change mitigation, we also work on an  integ rated strategy of climate 
adaptation measures  to improve the resilience of our assets and supply chains against potential physical impacts of 
climate change.  Report by the Managing Board – Planet  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  70 “DSM is leading by example. We were one of the first companies in 
our industry to commit to n et zero emissions by 2050, as well as 
defining the pathway to firmly set us on this course. Our Science Based Targets define our important mid -term step for 2030 . I am 
immensely proud of the fast progress against our targets. We also continue to challenge, support and innovate with suppliers and customers to reduce their climate impact." 
Dimitri de Vreeze, Co -CEO, Royal DSM  
Business measures supporting our climate approach  
In support of our ambition to substantially reduce our carbon footprint , we have introduced key measures which we apply 
to all growth projects . Since 2019, business  growth projects must either be  GHG-neutral  or else be compensated for 
within the same business.  
In addition, to encourage investments in low -carbon and carbon -free technologies, we use an internal carbon price of 
€50/t CO 2eq in the valuations of key investment projects and in the Profit and Loss statements of the business groups for 
internal manageme nt reporting. This increases the visibility of, and encourages accountability for, the impact of carbon  on 
the business.  
Ownership of climate actions is at Executive Committee level  
The DSM climate action agenda brings together our key climate actions  addressing the three 
pillars of improve , enable  and advocate . The progress of the agenda, including the 
implementation of the Taskforce on Climate-r elated Disclosures (T CFD) recommendations, the 
GHG reduction program , our portfolio developments  and efforts to  advocate for accelerated 
transition  with partners , are managed and actively reviewed by the Executive Committee several 
times a year.  
Concrete actions within the agenda are owned by individual Executive Committee members. Through the agenda, we 
ensure th at the business opportunities  related to mitigation and adaptation, and the identified transition and physical 
risks  of climate change are addressed. Our climate change strategy received an  A rating from CDP in 2020.  
“CDP awarded DSM Leadership status and an A score for its CDP climate change disclosure. This places DSM in the top 8% of participating companies in Europe . Companies reaching the Leadership level represent best practice through their 
comprehensive disclosure of environmental data, thorough awareness of risks, demonstration of strong governance and management of those risks, and implementation of market- leading best practices.”  
Maxfield Weiss , Director of Corporate Engagement at CDP Europe 
Scope 1 + 2 GHG emissions  
On track with our scope 1 + 2 target  
We are well on track towards delivering 30% absolute reduction by 2030 . Our scope 1 + 2 market -based GHG emissions 
improved 25%1 compared to our corrected 2016 baseline. Total scope 1 +  2 emissions were 1.24 million  tons CO 2eq in 2020 . 
This is  an increase compared to 2019 and is mainly due to inorganic growth and higher production volumes of key products 
in 2020 . Our GHG efficiency (year -on-year) improved 8.6% in 2020. 
1 All Climate & Energy data are subject to the non -financial reporting polic y. 
Report by the Managing Board – Planet  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  71 Scope 1 + 2 emissions and reductions versus c orrected baseline1 
1 Absolute reduction and structural improvement were reported as of 2018.  
Correcting our baseline in 2020  
Our baseline GHG emissions figure of 2016 was increased to 1.65 million tons CO 2eq, due to the inclusion of eight acquired 
sites in our reporting scope for  the period 2017 –2020  and the impact of methodology changes . Three newly built sites were 
also added to the reporting scope, however  as they were constructed after 2016, have no impact on the baseline correction. 
Our GHG reduction program  
In order to achieve the targeted absolute GHG reduction by 2030, we have continued our dedicated program to help our 
key locations implement appropriate energy transition  and energy efficiency  measures. We are using performance 
diagnostics  as well as self -assessment s that are carried out at key  sites to identify GHG emission reduction opportunities. 
The learnings from these sites is shared across all sites to enable further roll out of improvement projects.  
Supported by a dedicated corporate budget  that is available to our business groups, we executed a variety of GHG 
reduction projects in 2020. The execution of the 2020 pro gram will have an impact of approximately 20 -25 kt CO 2eq or 
approximately 1.5% on our GHG reduction s. The projects range from relatively easy -to-implement modifications in 
operations, such as improving the insulation  around hot parts, to installing advanced energy metering systems , up to the 
installation of best available technologies  (for example, heating and cooling equipment ). The contribution to our GHG 
reductions, due to the step -up in renewably sourced  electrici ty that was made in Europe and North  America  in 2020 , was 
offset by the current growth in non -renewabl y sourced  electricity in China. This growth in China was due to the impact of 
acquisitions as well as organic growth in our China sites. In the coming yea rs, in line with developing infrastructure, we will 
be actively pursuing opportunities for renewable electricity in China as well.  
As a result of the above, the overall structural improvement increased from 17% to 18%  from 2019 to 2020.  
Energy transition  
Energy efficiency improvements 
Our energy efficiency impr ovement (on primary energy)  was 5.7%1 versus 2019 , above our target of an average annual 
improvement of 1% . This is mainly due to improvements in the production process during the scaling up of one of our new 
ventures. These improvements resulting in much lower energy use per ton produced. Excluding this effect, the energy 
1 All data presented in Planet are subject to the non-financial reporting policy . 1.50 1.50 1.501.571.65
1.50 1.50
1.23
1.171.24
2016 2017 2018 2019 20200.00.51.01.52.0
0%7%14%21%28%Baseline 2016 (corrected)
Scope 1 + 2 emissions (million tons)  
Absolute reduction versus baseline  
Structural improvement versus baselineReport by the Managing Board – Planet  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  72 efficiency improvement was 1.9%, which was mainly due to our GHG reduction program  and general efficiency 
improvements .  
Projects executed in 2019 began delivering results in 2020 , adding up to approximately 26 kt CO 2eq reduction on the 2020 
emissions. Examples of projects resulting in lower energy use are the replacement of  chillers for building cooling  in 
Greenville (North Carolina, USA) with a state -of-the-art version with much lower energy consumption, contributing 
approximately 2.7 kt CO 2eq. In Jiangshan (Jiangsu Province, China) , the installation of a  membrane filtratio n system  to pre-
concentrate a product solution , significantly reducing the amount of required steam , contributed about 6 kt CO 2eq. In 
Lalden (Switzerland), several smaller projects, such as returning condensate  and continuous monitoring of steam 
leakages  resulted in energy efficiency improvement and approximately 2 kt CO 2eq reduction.  
Renewable energy  
We are a proud member of the Climate Group ’s RE100, comprising leading companies that have committed to sourcing 
100% of their electricity from renewable sour ces at the earliest possible opportunity. Our commitment is to source 75% of 
our electricity from renewable sources latest by 2030 and  100% at the earliest possible opportunity .  
In 2020, we once again made significant steps towards our purchased renewable electricity target . The percentage of 
purchased electricity from renewable sources increased globally from 50% in 2019 to 60%  in 2020 . The CO 2eq reduction due 
to this increase was offset by a lower demand in renewable electricity in high -emission  regions and by the current growth 
in non- renewable electricity in China . 
Progress on purchased renewable electricity in Europe  
For our operations in Europe, we concluded a new Power Purchase Agreement  (PPA)  to source renewable electricity from 
one wind fa rm and two solar power plants in Spain , which will commence production in 2022 –2023. In the Netherlands , our 
portfolio of agreements continued to provide 100% purchased electricity from wind parks  to all locations. All other sites in 
Europe were  also using  100% renewable electricity  due to existing agreements combined with pre- production guarantees 
of origin (GOs) from the new PPA . 
Progress on purchased renewable electricity in North America  
Two PPAs are in place in the US, one  for electricity generated fro m wind , while the assets for the second one are  to be 
built and will provide solar -powered electricity . The production from the first agreement combined with pre- production 
renewable energy certificates  (RECs) from the second agreement  means we have  around  two-thirds coverage of 
purchased electricity from  renewable resources  in North America  in 2020, in line with  2019. The agreement for additional 
renewable electricity production announced in 2019 plus additional expected progress will lift this percentage toward 100% 
in 2021.  
Working on renewable energy for heat and steam  
Next to significant steps taken to increase the ratio  of purchased renewable electricity , we also look for opportunities for 
the broader use of  renewable energy sources . Sites a cross DSM already recover waste streams for production of 
renewable energy while others are in an exploratory phase. For example, an anaerobic digestor  in Jiangshan (Jiangsu 
Province, China) enables the production of biogas from wastewater. At the end of 2 020, Chifeng (Inner Mongolia, China) 
purchased steam produced from biomass residues . The biomass cogeneration plant in Sisseln (Switzerland) reached full 
year capacity in 2020, enabling a further reduction in GHG emissions of 6 kt CO 2eq versus 2019.  
In 20 20, we continued to make progress in order to expand the portfolio of purchased renewable fuels in a responsible 
way. We worked throughout 2020 with  a cross -functional team to establish comprehensive sustainability criteria  for our 
purchased biomass -based fuels and heat . Pilot work started in 2020 and will continue during 2021. The new framework 
aims to  ensure that any step taken in this direction supports the responsible  transition to ward  decarbonized operations 
and to further expand sustainable renewable energy consumption in DSM. Roy
al DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  73 Report b y the Managing B oard – Planet 
Scope 3 GHG emissions 
Our s cope 3 emissions 
Our ab solute s cope 3 G HG e missions am ou nted t o 12 million tons1 CO 2e q in 2020. Despite implemented r ed uctions, t ot al 
em
issions increased by 0.4 m illion to ns compared t o 2019 (11.6 million t ons), with t h e largest i ncrease f rom e m issions from 
Purchased g oods and s ervices. Th is wa s mainly d ue to an i ncrease in total p urchasing v olume and a shift in raw material 
mix
 toward m ore carbon -intense r aw m aterials compared t o  2019. Th e main s cope 3 ca t egories i n the 2020 f i gures r emain 
Pu
rchased g oods an d services an d End -of-life tr e atmen t of s old p r oducts . End -of-life e missions remained s t able 
compared t o 2019 d ue to a restated v al ue for 2019 t o correct f or an e rror in u nits. Due t o  rounding, total 2019 scope 3 
em
issions r emain a t 11.6 m illion to n s despite th e restatement on E n d-of-life e missions. 
Other s cope 3 ca tegories r eported co mp arable figures i n 2020 co mpared t o 2019. The scope 3 ca tegories Business travel 
and
 Employee c ommuting re ported a r eduction co m pared t o 2019 d u e to r educed t ravel and i ncreased w orking from 
home as
 a consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic.  
Scope 3 GHG emissions1 
in C
O2eq, m illion tons 
1 Due to rounding, the numbers presented above may not add up to the total scope 3 emissions.  
We ha
ve seen considerable development  regarding the performance of our main scope -3-contributing suppliers. Our 
highest -contributing supplier has already show n a decrease in emissions as a consequence of reduction measures  taken 
in past years which now have been included in this year’s reporting. Furthermore , they announced an investment to further 
reduce their emissions in 2021. The second largest contributing supplier re-assessed their emissions and identified 
strongly increased emissions. As a consequence, they have started an investment to reduce their emissions drastically in 
the coming years.  
1 All data presented in Planet are subject to the non-financial reportin g policy . 9.8
9.4
0.7 0.71.1 1.1
0.2 0.3 0.2 0.2
2020 201904812Other upstream categories 
InvestmentsPurchased goods and services 
End-of-life treatment
Other downstream categoriesReport by the Managing Board – Planet  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  74 Science Based Targets  
In M
arch 2019, our  new Science Based Target was approved, including an intensity reduction target of 28% per unit  of 
product produced in 2030 versus the base year of 2016 for scope 3 emissions. This year will be the first year reporting on 
the scope 3 intensity development.  
The intensity development improved  by 5% compared  to the baseline in 2016. Baseline adjustments were made reflecting 
the new data insights and supplier -specific information.  
Our emissions intensity  deteriorated year -on-year. A change in product mix due to COVID -19 and the absolute emissions 
from raw materials  was not offset by the improvements realized by our suppliers.  
Engaging with our suppliers through our CO2REDUCE program  
Our company -wide supplier engagement program CO2REDUCE continued at full force in 2020  and made good progress. 
We explored new means to  support our supply base in emission reduction and improved our insights and data quality in 
the reported emissions.  
The program continued using last year’s successfully developed roadmaps  for our businesses, in which collaboration with 
key suppliers is fundamental . As a consequence, CO2REDUCE is well established in our businesses and we expanded the 
reach to more targeted suppliers  that contribute the highest GHG emissions in our value chain.  
Collaborating with our suppliers on scope 3 reductions  
In our s upplier engagement program, we apply a  collaborative approach together with a given supplier  whereby we aim to 
understand the  supplier’s  existing reduction ambitions and efforts, and develop a supplier action plan  for reduction 
based on  a common ‘reduction’ starting point. This typically involves the exchange of life cycle assessment  data to 
establish the specific situation of a supplier. We have been successful in this approach , as multiple supplier action plans 
have been developed that  have  improved our i nsights in emissions while relationships with suppliers have been 
strengthened with a clear focus on next implementation steps for GHG reduction.  
We greatly improved at tracking  supplier developments and determining their  realized reductions.  This required  an 
extension to the existing methodology and adjustment of the relevant IT systems. In the 2020 reported emissions , multiple 
supplier specific emissions were used in the calculations  instead of using industry average figures.  
An example is the halving of the carbon footprint of our polyamide Akulon® PA6  as a consequence of the committed 
reductions at our  key supplier.  To reflect this very promising development, this supplier specific reduction has been 
included in the CO2REDUCE reporting and will give a more realistic reflection of emissions development  already in 2020 
and years to come.  
Sharing lessons learned on scope  3 emissions  
To catalyze additional emission reductions  through the use of renewable electricity in our supply base, we  invited more 
than 40 participants from key suppliers to join a webinar on the transition from  fossil -based to renewable electricity . We 
shared our lessons learned in this field and invited expert consultants to present  the wider solution landscape and to 
accommodate an easy follow -up. The feedback of suppliers  was overwhelmingly positive  and the webinar series  was 
nominated for the RE100 leadership awards for Best Green Catalyst . 
The area of scope 3 emissions is a relatively  new field that is in development and we regard it as our responsibility to 
actively support  and share our ex periences  from the CO2REDUCE program in peer group platforms  like Together for 
Sustainability. These platforms aim to define best practices on supplier engagement and scope 3 calculations within the industry. Our 
Supplier Engagement Rating  on climate was given an A rating by CDP  in 2020.  
Finally, we also develop products for the circular and bio- based economy that contribute to further reducing our scope 3 
emissions. See Stakeholder engagement  and Resources & Circularity  for additional information . 
Avoided emissions, supporting our customers with their emissions targets 
Our products can enable our customers to transition to a  low-carbon economy  through an inherently lower carbon 
footprint , or by helping our clients and  end-users reduce their own emissions. The latter are referred to as ‘Avoided Report by the Managing Board – Planet  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  75 emissions’ — emissions -related environmental benefits  that occur  downstream in the  use phase of our products . While 
avoided emissions do not count toward our own Science Based Targets or net-zero target, they result in reduced emissions 
for others in our value chain.  
For example, animal farming  accounts for 14.5% of all human -derived greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Thi s contribution 
needs to be rapidly reduced to help limit the rise in global temperatures to 1.5°C. The farming industry is highly variable i n 
its approach to transitioning to a low -carbon future so our Animal Nutrition & Health business provides innovative , 
customer tailored solutions to enable GHG reductions within animal production systems . 
One of our solutions (approximately 1% of our poultry business ) utilizes a combination of vitamins, enzymes, and 
eubiotics. This combination provides substantial green house gas emission reductions in broiler production , where 
benefits related to animal health and digestion  are realized. This performance improvement reduces the carbon footprint 
of produced poultry by more than 8% compared to non -use. In 2020, this enable d avoided GHG emissions of approximately 
1,200 kt CO 2eq. 
Similarly, within pig production  an example product combination (approximately 13% of our sales in this segment), leads 
to a reduction in emissions associated with animal feed production  and animal waste  when compared to non -use. The 
avoided emissions associated with this solution in 202 0 were approximately 100 kt CO 2eq. 
Our feed additives  are also used in dairy cattle feed , improving animal health  and milk production efficiency . An 
example solution (representing less than 1% of dairy sales) reduces the carbon footprint of milk by 9%. Thi s is associated 
with approximately 70 kt CO 2eq of avoided emissions in this application.  
Other emissions to air  
Aspiration  2020  2019 
VOC efficiency improvement versus 20151 continuous improvement  74% 74%2
VOC (x 1,000 tons)   3.53 2.7 
1 All data presented in Planet  are subject to the non-financial reporting policy . 
2 The 2019 VOC efficiency improvement  has been restated due to a correction in the calculations for one location  
3 The increase in  emissions in 2020 is due to the inclusion of acquired sites, which do not contribute to efficiency improvement 
calculations in the year of addition  
Our reporting on ‘ Other emissions to air’ focuses on volatile organic compounds  (VOCs ), as these are the most significant 
emissions in this area. We continue to report our nitrous oxide  (NO x) and sulfur dioxide  (SO2) emissions in the 
Sustainability statements  and via the company website . However, these emissions are not material due to improvement 
actions executed in the past.  
We continue to work on our VOC emissions  
Our objective is to continuously reduce our VOC e missions, resulting in a more than 50% efficiency improvement by 2021 — 
an increase on our previous aspiration of 40% for the three emissions by 2020 . In 2020, our VOC efficiency  remained  stable  
versus 2019 . Smaller improvements were offset by negative production effects, while the majority of the larger abatement 
projects have been executed in previous years. Our absolute VOC emissions increased  due to the inclusion of acquired 
sites in the reporting scope. As this is the first year of reporting for these sites, they do not contribute to the VOC efficiency 
improvement.  
In Yantai  (Shandong Province, China) , ethanol emissions  were reduced by more than 50% compared to 2019 due to the 
implementation of several process improvements , improving staff awareness  and monitoring . This improvement does not 
contribute to the year -on-year VOC efficiency improvement result because it is only the first year of reporting for Yantai, 
but it does contribute to the overall company VOC level in 2020.  Report by the Managing Board – Planet  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  76 Resources & Circularity  
Resources & Circularity is one of our F ocus Domains. We are committed to securing the future availability of natural 
resources and unlocking more value from the limited resources we have, by monitoring and improving our own 
operatio nal impact through resource efficiency improvements, enabling our customers to deliver sustainable and circular 
solutions, and advocating for the transition to a circular, bio- based economy.  
With the global population expected to reach more than 9 .7 billio n by 20501, the demand for Earth’s resources  will only 
continue to rise. The UN has calculated that in order to sustain our current lifestyles , the equivalent of three planets 
would be required by mid-century. This makes sense, considering our global econ omy is only 8.6% circular. In other words, 
just 8.6% of the 92.8 billion tons of minerals, fossil fuels, metals and biomass that enter the economy are re- used annually, 
and the trend is negative — the gap is not closing.  
We enable our customers to transit ion toward a circular & bio- based economy by focusing on five drivers:  
-Reduce  the use of critical resources throughout the value chain
-Replace  scarce, hazardous, and potentially harmful resources with safe and renewable alternatives
-Extend  the lifetime of products by means of improved durability or shelf-life
-Design  for recyclability
-Recover  waste streams by viewing waste as a resource
We repor
t our performance on Resources & Circularity based on Renewable & secondary raw materials (addressing the 
first two drivers above) and Waste (addressing the last driver above).  
Aspiration  2020  2019 
Renewable & secondary raw materials1 
Renewable raw materials (% of spend)  15.2%  14.7%  
Waste 
Waste recycled  80–90% in 2020  85% 86%2
Total process -related waste efficiency improvement  at least maintain  6.3% 2.8% 
Non-hazardous process -related waste (kt)  130 1072 
Hazardous process -related waste (kt)  75 85 
Non-process related waste (kt)  10 5 
1 All data presented in Planet  are subject to the  non-financial reporting policy . 
2 The 2019 non- hazardous waste and waste recycled have been restated due to a correction in the calculations at one location.  
Renewable & secondary raw materials  
As part of our focus on Resources & Circularity , we are accelerating our efforts to  replace  finite fossil resources  with 
regenerative, renewable (bio -based) raw materials , as well as secondary (recycled) materials. Replacing finite resources 
with alternative renewable resources can also have environmental co -benefits, such as reducing the carbon footprint of 
our solutions.  
Our progress on renewable raw materials  
The renewable raw materials we use include waste from agriculture, yeasts and enzymes, carbohydrates and natural oils, 
and acids . In 2020, the share of our spend on renewable raw materials increased to 15.2%2 from 14.7% in 2019. The 
percentage increase is due to an increase in spend on enzymes, ge latins and other food additives . 
1 Source: UN 
2 All data presented in Planet are subject to the non-financial reporting policy . Report by the Managing Board – Planet  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  77 Launching a bio -based  alternative for Dyneema®  
In 2020 , our materials businesses again took big steps forward in driving the transition toward a circular and bio- based 
economy through the launch of new bio-based and recycled -based innovations . For example, DSM Protective Materials  
launched its  bio-based Dyneema® , which is based on renewable ethylene derived from  bio-based feedstock  (residue of 
the wood pulping process). The unique properties of Dyneema ® are maintained, enabling customers to adopt a more 
sustainable so lution without compromising process efficiency or final product performance.  
Bio-based and recycle -based raw materials in DSM Engineering Materials  
By working together with strategic partners, DSM Engineering Materials launched a new recycled -based alterna tive for 
high- performance polyamide (PA6), Akulon® CRC -MB, which is used in the automotive, electronics and packaging 
industries. This polyamide is used for instance to produce a  new multi -layer food packaging film  in collaboration with 
SABIC, Cepsa, Fibrant, and film -manufacturer Viscofan.  The development of this packaging material underlines a strong 
commitment from us to work closely with our value chain partners to lead the transition toward more circular and 
sustainable materials.  
DSM announced a new strategic partnership with Neste, whereby DSM Engineering Materials will start replacing a 
significant proportion of the fossil feedstock  used to date in the manufacture of our high performance polymers  portfolio 
with feedstock produced from recycled waste plastics  and/or 100% bio-based hydrocarbons . Neste produces its bio -
based hydrocarbons entirely from renewable raw materials , such as waste and residue oils and fats. For the production of 
waste -plastic -derived fee dstock, Neste focuses on plastics that cannot be mechanically recycled and have previously been 
directed to incineration and landfilling.  
More information on how we approach sustainable biomass  is available in our  position paper on Sustainable Biomass on 
the company website . 
Waste  
Our definition of waste recycled is the percentage of non -hazardous and hazardous process -related waste  that is 
recovered off -site or, if this is not possible, incinerated off -site with heat recovery . In total, this amounted to 1751 kt out 
of 205 kt of total process -related waste.  We pay careful attention to meeting local waste management legislation . We aim 
to mai ntain our percentage of recycled waste in the range of 80–90% , which was achieved in 2020.  
Waste breakdown by type and destination  
in thousand tons  
1 All data presented in Planet are subject to the non-financial reporting policy . Non-process-related 
wasteNon-hazardous 
process-related waste 50100150Off-site incineration with heat recovery 
Off-site incineration without heat recovery 
Landfill
Off-site recovery
Hazardous 
process-related wasteReport by the Managing Board – Planet  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  78 Managing our waste streams  
Besides measuring our percentage of recycled waste , we also pay attention to reducing our total amount of process -
related waste.  In 2020, our total process -related waste efficiency  improvement was 6.3 %. This is mainly due to significant 
process improvements at our acquired sites and new ventures. S pecific waste reduction programs  were run at our main 
locations  such as Dalry ( United Kingdom ), where ca lcium was used to restore and rebuild soil profiles.  
Water security  
Fresh  water is a finite natural resource that need s to be used and managed in a responsible  and sustainable way. Wate r 
security is an integral part of our risk mitigation and environmental impact reduction strategies, closely connected to 
Climate & Energy and Resources & Circularity. At the company level, we commit to measuring, monitoring and  reporting 
relevant performa nce indicators for water. We disclose the progress of our water stewardship program, via the CDP Water 
Security questionnaire.  
DSM is a signatory of the CEO Water Mandate, a UN Global Compact initiative that mobilizes business leaders to advance in 
water s tewardship  and drive progress on SDG 6  (Clean Water and Sanitation ). This commitment is translated to our global 
policy on water, the Water Management Standard , which applies to all our facilities worldwide, enabling the sites to 
implement relevant measures in line with the Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) Standards, the WBCSD guide to circular 
water management and other industry best practices.  In 2020, our CDP Water Security  rating improved to an A - for our 
water governance and management strat egy. 
Aspiration  2020  2019 
Water Use (million m3)1 
Water withdrawal for once -through cooling (OTC)  85 89 
Water withdrawal for non -OTC 24 23 
-surface water 4.8 4.0 
-potable (tap) water 13.6 12.1 
-ground water 5.2 6.0 
Consumptive Use  4.4 5.3 
Sustainable water management  
Water risk assessments  100% in 2020  100%  100%  
Closure of high -risk related actions  90% in 2020  97% 39% 
Water withdrawal efficiency improvement  at least maintain  4.8% 3.5%2
Emissions to water  
COD (kt)  2.0 2.1 
1 All data presented in Planet  are subject to the non-financial reporting policy . 
2 The 2019 water withdrawal efficiency improvement has been restated due to a correction in the calculations at one location.  
The s ustainable use of water  
As a global sustainability leader , we follow the latest scientific insights on  global water crisis , with increasing extreme 
weather events  and water shortage  potentially impacting  our customers, our employees, and our own business continuity. 
For climate adaption, our  physical risks scan provided important insights  into the business impacts of different climate 
change scenarios. For water stress, our water stewardship approach reflects our sector materiality  for risk exposure and  
impacts we can make . The main user of freshwater is agriculture, which is an indirect part of our value chain.  
Water use in our products and processes  
Water is not a primary ingredient in our products . Our primary water use is for the utility systems, in steam consumption 
and cooling processes . In addition to th is, high quality freshwater is needed for a variety of our production processes, as a 
production medium and as a  cleaning agent  to meet  the desired product hygiene and  quality standards. For our direct 
operations, we strive to use  water in balance with the context of the respective catchments . In our value chain, we 
monitor the materiality on water for our suppliers and  customers through value chain engagement programs, such as 
Together for Sustainability (TfS).  Report by the Managing Board – Planet  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  79 “Water stress will continue to increase around the world. Building on 
our current water efficiency targets, we will define a contextual water reduction target to address water stre ss in our own operations. This 
report represents our progress on water toward the UN Global Compact CEO Water Mandate.”  
Dimitri de Vreeze, Co -CEO, Royal DSM  
Water relevance is context -based 
Water is a local topic that needs to be managed in the context of a given catchment and its  water challenges . Our water 
stewardship program is tailored to our specific impacts and dependencies on water and informed by local catchment 
contexts  to maximize our positive impacts in a cost -effective way.  
The context of once- through cooling and water consumption  
A large proportion of our total water withdrawal (75%1) is used for once -through cooling  (OTC) purposes in low water -
stress areas. For this type of water withdrawal, both risk exposure and environmental impacts are limited . For this reason, 
we report and  monitor ‘non-OTC Water Withdrawal’ separately, to provide a metric that reflects our water intensity in a 
contextual way. We have a  target in place to continuously improve water efficiency  using this metric.  
In addition to water withdrawal, we report and monitor our consumptive use , defined as the difference between water 
withdrawal and water discharge. Our consumptive use is primari ly a result of evaporative cooling  and is positively 
correlated to energy efficiency. For this reason, our GHG reduction program delivers co -benefits on water consumption 
through improving energy efficiency. For example, in 2019, we replaced several chillers and their associated cooling towers 
at our site in Belvidere (New Jersey, USA). The project reduced the water consumption for cooling  on site by 50% . This also 
had a positive effect of approximately 3 kt on their greenhouse gas emissions.  
Water withdraw al and water stress  
in million tons  
1 ‘Out of scope’ includes discontinued operations, sites with minimal withdrawal (<10.000m3/year) and sites with  limited operational 
control  
1 All data presented in Planet are subject to the non-financial reporting p olicy. 84.723.5Water withdrawal for once-through cooling 
(OTC) Water withdrawal - for non OTC
Water withdrawal3.2
7.312.40.7Current water stress
Low water stressAdditional future water stress 
Out of scope¹
Water stress 
for non-OTC 
withdrawalRoyal D
SM Integrated Annual Report 2020  80 Report b y the Managing B oard – Planet 
We expect water s tress to increase 
Water s tress i s expected t o w orsen i n many p arts of t he w orld, as a result of f act ors including urbanization an d population 
growth , increasing foo d production , changing consumption patterns , industrialization , water pollution , and climate 
change
. Water st ress is defined a s the r atio of t otal w ater w ithdrawals t o avail able r enew able s urface an d grou ndwater 
suppl
ies. It is a p arameter t h at  varies d epending o n the hydrological w ater b alance in the c atchment a nd the  demand for 
water i n the local co mmu nity. The level o f water s tress ch an ges o ver time influenced b y th e changing cl ima te but a lso b y 
societal d evelopments. 
To further co ntex tualize our water footprint and i ncorp orate c limate ad aptat ion d evelopments , we perform o ur water 
stress mapping with the w ater r isk tools f rom the World R esource Institute (WRI) a nd the World Wi ldli fe Fund ( WWF) to  
iden
tify wa ter st ress sites, wh ere  water stress is greater than 40%. This m apping  is based o n ou r c urrent fo otprint 
combined w ith a 2030 ‘ business as usual’ sc enar io. The ‘business as usual’ sc enar io represents a wo rld wi th stab le 
economic development a nd steadily r ising g lo bal ca rbon em issions, w ith global mean t emp eratures i ncreasing b y 2.6–4.8°C 
re
lative t o 1986 –2005 l evel s. We m onitor the w ater w ithdrawal and consumptive use for t hese locations closely. 
Water r
isk m itigations and effluent m anagement 
Over t he period 2 018–2020, we co nducted site -leve l water r isk assessment s (WRA) for 1 00%1 of  water st ress sites and si tes 
with water-withdrawal materiality. T he WRA p rov ides d etailed i nsights o n the water c hallenges locally i ncluding th e 
impacts an d likelihood of a given risk, as a basis for the prioritization of risk mitigation measures. Updates to th e water 
stress mapping wi ll also identify n ew water st re ss sites that wi ll be in  scope f or WRA.  
Ad
dressing m itigating m eas ures f or water r is ks 
For the hi gh risks identified, the sites d efine and i mpl ement relevant mitigating m easures . Glo bally, 39 high -risk-
m
itigation measures (referred t o as ‘high-risk a ctions’) w ere d efined . The m ajority o f the hi gh risks i dentified r elate to 
water q uality, s uch a s constraints i n the wastewater tr eatment facilities related t o business gro wth a nd/or increasingly 
stringent regulatory requirements on wa stewater d ischarge .  
Of these high -risk actions, 97% w ere implemented i n 2020 ex ceedi ng our target of 90 %. The mi tigation m easures i nclude 
sho
rt-term ac tions to improve op erati onal c ontrols on si te, or h ave documented co mmitments f or longer -term p rojects 
in pla
ce, such a s several large c apital e xpenditures to upgrade an d expan d waste water t reatment facilities . Lon ger-term 
commitments w ill be f ollowed u p with relevant site m anagement processes a nd w i ll be m onitored c en trally. Water risk 
management w ill remain a key i nstrument f or our water stewardship p rogram t o monitor local w ater ch allenges a nd 
improve (contextual) effluent m anage ment.  
Water risk types and completion 
in %
1 All data presented in Planet are subject to the non-financial reporting policy . 7310313Quality Quantity Regulatory Reputational
WRA
closure
97%ActionReport by the Managing Board – Planet  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  81 Moving toward a c ontext -based water reduction target  
Building on the current continuous improvement targets for water efficiency, we aim to define a  context -based water 
reduction target  in response to the emerging availability risks in water -stressed  regions.  
In 2020, a water impact assessment  was conducted  on key water stress sites to evaluate water reduction options and  
potential impacts operationally and financially. Besides p roviding the necessary insights to define a relevant and  impactful 
target, the impact assessment  raised awareness o f water stress , strengthened water stewardship practices , including 
measurements and monitoring, and identified water recycling  and reuse possibilities for the sites in water -stressed 
regions .  
The context -based reduction target as of 2021 will set the direction for improvements for the longer term and be 
complementary to our continu ing efforts to manage water quality through a risk -based approach.  
Nature & biodiversity  
The complex web of life which makes up nature and biodiversity is vital for our Earth’s survival. Health y ecosystems 
supply us with oxygen, food, clean air and water, and a host of other ecosystem services including mitigating the effects 
of climate change by absorbing carbon. Like every business in the world, we depend on nature and ecosystem services. We acknowledge our role to protect biodiversity, and fully support the ambitions of the UN Convention on Biological 
Diversity.  
1 All data presented in Planet  are subject to the non-financial reporting policy . 
Bio
diversity loss is accelerating, and its key drivers are all connected with human activity. According to the 
Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES)  Global Assessment , one million 
of the eight million anim al and plant species  are now threatened with extinction. We address our impacts on biodiversity 
and natural ecosystems  through our Responsible Care Plan , especially with our GHG reduction, water stewardship a nd 
waste management programs.  
Monitoring biodiversity across our value chain  
To improve  our operational footprint, we monitor areas of  high biodiversity value around our sites . In 2020, 27 % of all our 
production sites in scope were adjacent to protected ar eas and 3 % contained portions of registered protected areas. As we 
are exposed to biodiversity risks in our supply chain, we strive to responsibly source high- risk raw materials  through 
recognized certification schemes. These raw materials include palm oil derivatives , wood -based materials , fish oils  and 
sugar . More information on how we work with the sourcing of these raw materials can be found in Suppliers  and in our 
statement on the responsible management of forest resour ces on the company we bsite . Moving forward, we will 
continually evaluate our impacts on biodiversity along our value chain,  and have joined the Science -based Targets 
Network’s Corporate Engagement Program , to co -develop and pilot test their guidance for setting s cience- based targets 
in the future.  
Supporting our customers on biodiversity  
We enable our customers to develop more sustainable products through  our Brighter Living Solutions. For example, just 
one ton of our Veramaris® natural algal oil saves 60 tons of wild fish  from having to be caught to produce salmon feed, 
protecting marine biodiversity in our oceans.  2020  2019 
Protected Areas1 
Sites in or adjacent to protected areas  27% 25% 
Sites in registered protected area  3% 3% Report by the Managing Board – Planet  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  82 Taking a position on biodiversity  
Lastly, we advocate  for biodiversity -promoting values worldwide . This year, we put our name behind Business for Nature’s 
‘call to action’  for governments to set more ambitious policies to reverse nature  loss in this decade. We are also a 
member of  One Planet Business for Biodiversity  (OP2B) which aims to scale up regenerative agriculture and restore 
ecosystems to prevent further biodiversity loss through collective member actions.  
For more information, see our position paper on Biodiversity on the company website . 
Product stewardship  
Product stewardship manages and minimizes the environmental, safety and health impacts of substances in our products 
in line with international regulations from raw materials selection, production process, during use, until end -of-life. It is 
about knowing the substances we use and produce, being able to explain why we use them, taking the appropriate risk control measures, and sharing this information with relevant and interested stakeholders. We apply a risk -based 
approach, using safer alternatives whenever feasible, and always when required.  
Assessing our exposure to Substances of Very High Concern  
In 2020, we finalized the assessment of our  full product portfolio  to identify products with more than 0.1% Substances of 
Very High Concern (SVHC) , excluding substances in products that are considered ‘essential for life’. We applied a broad set 
of criteria to identify SVHC. These include CMR (Carcinogenic, Mutagenic or Reprotoxic), PBT (= Persistent, Bio -accumulative 
and Toxic) and vPvB (very Persistent very B io-accumulative), respiratory sensitizers, endocrine disrupting chemicals, and 
suspected CMRs.  
Less than fiv e percent1 of our total sales come s from products that contain more than 0.1% SVHC . The assessments for 
these products include action plans  such a s replacement possibilities  and additional risk-reduction measures . Two 
substances are responsible for more than half of this percentage, and are classified as suspected CMR (by inhalation). 
These two substances are embedded in a chemical structure and can not become available for exposure by inhalation.  
Gaining insights into product stewardship  
The project provided new insights in and better understanding of (the substances in) our products and processes, which in turn was used as input for our 
product stew ardship roadmap  beyond 2020. Global chemical legislation is rapidly 
expanding and the public is becoming increasingly sensitized to the subject of chemicals.  We observe a shift from risk - to 
hazard -based thinking. With these challenges in product stewardship, we defined five themes to work on:  
-Further increase the awareness  across the organization
-Improve our master data  management
-Improve our use of digitalization  tools
-Further implement ‘safe & sustainable by design’  principles
-Adjust our governance  when needed
Up
dating product registries in REACH  
As a participant of the voluntary program of the European chemical industry association to improve the quality of the 
REACH dossiers , we proceeded with the update of the REACH dossiers, in which we were the lead registrant  in 2020. The 
European database is seen as an important source of information on health and environmental hazards, generated with the implementation of REACH in Europe a decade ago. For more information on product stewardship, se e the 
company 
website . 
1 All data presented in Planet are subject to the non-financial rep orting policy . Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  83 Profit  
At a glance  
-+24% Total shareholder return versus 2019
-+1% Sales from continuing operations  versus 2019 , with organic sales +6% in Nutrition and -12 % in Materials
--1% Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations versus 2019 , with Nutrition +7% and Materials - 27%
-€955 million Adjusted net operating free cash flow , +19% versus 2019
-€457 million Net profit from continuing operations , -34% versus 2019
-€2.40 Proposed dividend stable per ordinary share
Overall financial results  
Strategy  
At our Virtual Investor Event in November 2020, we reiterated our purpose- led, performance- driven growth strategy. 
Sustainability and innovation are key growth drivers of DSM’s long -term focused strategic plan, and are underpinned by 
ambitious targets across People, Planet and Profit. In markets related to Nutrition, Health and Sustainable Living, DSM is 
well positioned to use its capabilities to create a positive impact and deliver value for all the company’s stakeholders.  
In Nutrition, we see significant headroom for business growth and innovation. The success of Nutrition’s unique business model combining ‘global products’ and ‘local solutions’ is evident from its track record of 6% organic sales growth and a 
10% Adjusted EBITDA growth CAGR 2015 —2020. Rec ent acquisitions such as CSK, Glycom and E rber Group further 
strengthened our value proposition to customers. Going forward, Nutrition will maintain strong growth by building on its 
‘global products , local solutions’ business model. In addition, we will ad d a third leg through driving Precision & 
Personalization , by building on our big data, digital and bioscience capabilities.  
In Materials, we have strong growth and earnings potential, and are well positioned in the strategic area of Sustainable Living. Fo llowing the announcement of the sale of our Resins & Functional Materials businesses to Covestro AG, Materials’ 
activities now consist of DSM Engineering Materials and DSM Protective Materials. We  will continue to develop these into a 
more resilient, highe r-growth, and high- margin specialty business. Their combined offering addresses the increasing 
demand for materials that protect the health of both people and planet by adding further bio -based and circular solutions. 
Overall, we aim to deliver mid -single  digit percentage organic sales growth, an above 20% Adjusted EBITDA margin, and 
high- single digit percentage Adjusted EBITDA growth on a mid -term basis in both Nutrition and Materials, supported by our 
strong innovation pipeline.  
Financial results  
This section  includes an overview of the key financial metrics  of the company in respect of  our continued operations 
performance in 2020  and 2019 , except where otherwise indicated.  
In 2020, the COVID -19 pandemic  led to unprecedented global challenges. W e took very prompt action  to ensure the health 
and safety of our employees and partners , while keeping operations running to maintain continuity of supply to our 
customers . Overall , the pandemic  had a slightly negative effect on Group sales , as Materials saw a ne gative sales impact of 
around 10% on volumes over the course of  the year, due to reduced global demand in the second and third quarters. 
Nutrition saw an overall slightly positive sales impact from the effects of COVID -19, mainly due to very strong demand in 
Human Nutrition for immunity -optimizing products.  
Overall , we delivered solid financial results  in this challenging environment and despite significant foreign exchange 
effects. We reported €1,534 million in Adjusted EBITDA, 1% down compared to 2019. We achieved good results in Nutrition, while Materials was significantly impacted by COVID -19.  Report by the Managing Board – Profit 
The Ad
justed EBITDA in the businesses was also supported by the contribution of our innovation pipeline, our recent 
acquisitions, and our continued focus on cost reduction and operational efficiency, including prompt actions to minimize 
capex and operating costs in Materials in order to mitigate the effects of the pandemic. Adjusted net operating free cash flow from continuing operations increased by 18% compare d to 2019 to €872 million.  
Compared to 2019, Nutrition  delivered above- market sales growth, with organic sales up 6%  and a corresponding Adjusted 
EBITDA growth of 7%. Nutrition sales saw a slightly positive impact from the effects of  COVID -19 overall. Hum an Nutrition  & 
Health  experienced  a strong increase in demand for immunity -optimizing products. Animal Nutrition  & Health witnessed  
good demand growth, but experienced some volatility in sales performance during  the second and third quarters due to 
stockin g effects at customers resulting from  the supply chain uncertainty caused by COVID -19. Food Specialties saw good 
demand for packaged food applications driven by higher at -home  consumption. Personal Care was weak due to lower 
demand for sun care and cosmetics, while Aroma Ingredients saw good demand for detergents and disinfectants.  
The performance of our Materials  cluster was significantly impacted by COVID -19, resulting in - 6% volume development  in 
2020. Demand de clined  abruptly at the end of the first quarter . Following a slow recovery over the summer, Materials saw a 
strong improvement from September onwards, especially in Engineering Materials , directly related to demand for 
automotive . 
The Adjusted EBITDA margins  were 21.0% and 17.9% for Nutrition and Materials respectively, in line with our strategic 
ambitions. In Nutrition, the Adjusted EBITDA margin was up to 21.0% versus 20.7% in the same period last year , owing to 
strong sales in Human Nutrition  & Health. In Materials, t he Adjusted EBITDA margin was 17.9% compared to 21.3% in 2019 , 
owing to the impact of COVID -19.  
Income statement and key data  
x € million  2020  2019 Change  
Net sales from continuing operations  8,106  7,998  1% 
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations  1,534  1,551 -1%
EBITDA from continuing operations  1,368  1,457 -6%
Adjusted operating profit from continuing operations  929 989 -6%
Operating profit from continuing operations  662 872 -24%
Adjusted net profit from continuing operations  711 752 -5%
APM adjustments from continuing operations  (254)  (63) 303%
Net profit from continuing operations  457 689 -34%
Net profit from discontinued operations  51 75 -32%
Net profit for the year  508 764 -34%
Net profit available to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V.  506 758 -33%
ROCE (in %, continuing operations)  10.4 12.3 
Adjusted EBITDA margin (in %, continuing operations)  18.9 19.4 
Adjusted net operating free cash flow 955 801 
Net sales and Adjusted EBITDA  
At €8,106 million, net sales  from continuing operations in 2020 were 1% higher than in 2019 (€7,998 million). Organic 
growth  in 2020 was 2%. Volume development  was 3%, while price/mix had a 1% negative effect on growth compared to 
2019. Exchange rate fluctuations  had a negative impact of 3%, and acquisitions contributed another 2% to sales.  
High -growth economies  together currently represent 43% of our sales (44% when Africa is included), which is slightly 
lower than in 2019. The share of sales in these economies as a proportion of our  total sales gives us a well -balanced global 
footprint.  
The Adjusted EBITDA  (Adjusted operating profit before depreciation and amortization) f rom continuing operations 
decreased by 1%, or €17 million, from €1,551 million in 2019 to €1,534 million in 2020. Adjusted EBIT (Adjusted operating profit) from continuing operations decreased from €989 million in 2019 to €929 million in 2020, down 6%.  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  84 Report by the Managing Board – Profit 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  85 Net sales  Adjusted EBITDA  
x € million  2020  2019 % change  2020  2019 % change  
DSM, continuing operations  8,106  7,998  1% 1,534  1,551 -1%
Nutritio n 6,365  6,028  6% 1,338  1,250  7% 
Materials  1,518 1,744  -13% 272 372 -27% 
Innovation  Center  184 184 0% 21 26 -19% 
Corporate Activities  39 42 -7% (97) (97) 0%
Net profit  
Adjusted net profit  from continuing operations of €711 million was down by 5% versus 2019. Net profit available to equity 
holders of DSM decreased by €25 2 million to € 506 million. This decrease was mainly a result of the higher APM 
adjustments (up by €191 million, mainly due to restructurings and impairments). Expressed per ordi nary share, net earnings 
from continuing operations amounted to €2.64 in 2020 (2019: €3.85).  
Financial income and expense  decreased by €25 million year on year to €67 million. This was mainly caused by the impact 
of the accounting for certain renewable energy contracts  and lower interest margins and lower cash balances compared to 
the previous year . 
The reported effective tax rate  over taxable result excluding APM adjustments 2020 for continuing operations was 18.5% 
(2019: 19.1%). Th is decrease was mainly due to  the one -time impact on the deferred tax position caused by the increase of 
the tax rate in Switzerland in 2019.  
Adjustments made in arriving at DSM’s Alternative performance measures (APM adjustments)  
Total APM adjustments  from continuing operations for the full year amounted to a loss of €254 million (2019: loss of 
€63 million), consisting of a loss in EBITDA of €166 million (including restructuring costs of €103 million and 
acquisition/divestment costs of €52 million), impairme nts of €101 million, a related tax benefit of €54 million, and a loss of 
€41 million relating to associates and joint ventures (mainly the impairment of the POET- DSM joint venture).  Report by the Managing Board – Profit 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  86 75222
201912
10
6
5
3874612
2019Net sales by destination 
 in % Net sales by origin 
 in %  
Net sales by business segment 
in % Net sales by end-u se market 
 in % 
Net sales bridge 2020 
x
 € million  Adjusted EBITDA margin  
in % 53
26
221312163The Netherlands Switzerland
Rest of Europe North America
Latin America China
Rest of Asia Rest of the world
202019
28
13177114 1The Netherlands Switzerland
Rest of Europe North America
Latin America China
Rest of Asia Rest of the world
2020
79192Nutrition Materials
Innovation Center Corporate Activities
202012
12
6
5
3764612Food & Beverages Dietary Supplements
Early Life Nutrition Personal Care
Animal Nutrition Automotive/transport
Electrical/electronics Medical Pharma
Other
2020
7,9988,106-1%
2%3%
-3%
Full year 2019 Volume Price/
mixFX Other Full year 202020.721.3
19.421.0
17.918.9
Nutrition Materials Total05101520252019 202042
26
231412163
201920
26
10179116 1
2019
1Report by the Managing Board – Profit 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  87 Cash flow statement  
x € million  2020¹  2019 
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January  800 1,281  
Cash provided by operating activities  1,494  1,385  
Cash from / (used in) investing activities  (1,482)  (525)  
Cash from / (used in) financing activities  83 (1,332)  
Effect of exchange differences  (24) (9) 
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December  871 800 
1 The cash flow statement includes  an analysis of all cash flows, including those related to discontinued operations  
Cash  provided by operating activities of €1,494 million mainly consists of the EBITDA for the year (€1,476 million). Our focus 
on cash flow resulted in a full -year operating cash flow that was €109 million higher than last year. This was driven by 
various items, including improved working capital performance, lower costs for defined benefit plans and higher customer 
funding (see also Consolidated financial statements ). 
The cash used in investing activities  included capital expenditure ( -€609 million) and acqu isitions ( -€1,533 million, 
including Erber Group and Glycom), partly offset by the withdrawal from fixed -term deposits (€646 million).  
The cash from financing activities  consisted mainly of the new corporate bonds (€991 million), partly offset by dividend 
paid (€289 million), the repurchase of shares (€309 million) and repayment of loans (€268 million).  
For the full cash flow statement , see the primary statement in the Consolidated financial statements . 
Balance sheet  
The balance sheet total  (total assets) reached €14.4 billion at year -end (2019: €13.4 billion). Equity decreased by €348 
million, which was fully attributable to the exchange rate impact on foreign operations of €451 million. Equity as a percentage of total assets decreased from 58% to 52%.  
Compared to year -end 2019, net debt  increased by €1,433 million to €2,577 million, mainly due to the acquisitions of 
Glycom and Erber Group. The gearing  at year- end was 25.6%, which is roughly double the gearing of 12.7% at year- end 2019.  
Capital expenditure  on intangible assets and property, plant and equipment amounted to €573 million for continuing 
operations in 2020 (€533  million on a cash basis), which was roughly the same as the level of amortization  and 
depreciation.  
Total working capital  from continuing operations amounted to €1,580 million compared to €1,743 million at year -end 2019. 
This represents 19.0% as a percentage of annualized fourth -quarter 2020 sales (2019: 22.5%), which is below our aspiration 
of 20%. Cash -wise, the operating working capital (OWC) from continuing operations was comparable to last year (a 
decrease of €8  million). The OWC percentage decreased from 27.6% at year -end 2019 to 24.6% of annualized sales at year -
end 2020.  
Cash and cash equivalents  came to €871 million at the end of the year; including current investments, this amounted to 
€914 million (2019: €1,488 million). Besides the regular cash flow elements, this decrease was mainly due to acquisitions 
(€1,533 million), the new bonds (€991 million) and the repurchase of shares (€309 million).  Report by the Managing Board – Profit 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  88 Balance sheet profile  
2020  2019 
x € million  in % x € million  in % 
Intangible assets  4,455  31 3,515  26 
Property, plant and equipment  3,774  26 4,040  30 
Other non -current assets  710 5 664 5 
Cash and cash equivalents  871 6 800 6 
Other current assets  4,554  32 4,424  33 
Total assets  14,364  100 13,443  100 
Equity  7,487  52 7,835  58 
Provisions  184 1 168 1 
Other non -current liabilities  4,490  32 3,325  25 
Other current liabilities  2,203  15 2,115 16 
Total equity and liabilities  14,364  100 13,443  100 
Outlook 2021  
DSM expects to deliver an Adjusted EBITDA increase in Nutrition at the upper end of its mid -term strategic ambition of 
high- single  digit growth. Together with continued recovery in Materials, DSM expects an Adjusted EBITDA growth rate for 
the Group moving into double digits, with a continued good Adjusted n et operating free cash flow.  Report by the Managing Board – Profit 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  89 Key business figures at a glance  
Our activities are grouped in three clusters: Nutrition, Materials and Innovation Center. We report separately on Corporate 
Activities. Results presented in this section (and elsewhere in this Report) relate to consolidated activities only (therefore 
non-consolidated partnerships are excluded).  
Net sales  
x € million  2020  2019 
Nutrition  6,365  6,028  
Materials  1,518 1,744  
Innovation Center  184 184 
Corporate Activities  39 42 
Total continuing operations  8,106  7,998  
Discontinued operations  932 1,012 
Total  9,038  9,010  
Adjusted EBITDA  
x € million  2020  2019 
Nutrition  1,338  1,250  
Materials  272 372 
Innovation Center  21 26 
Corporate Activities  (97) (97) 
Total continuing operations  1,534  1,551  
Discontinued operations  116 133 
Total  1,650  1,684  
Adjusted EBITDA margin  
in % 2020  2019 
Nutrition  21.0 20.7 
Materials  17.9 21.3 
Total continuing operations  18.9 19.4 
Discontinued operations  12.4 13.1 
Total  18.3 18.7 Ad
justed operating profit (EBIT)  
x € million  2020  2019 
Nutrition  919 881 
Materials  168 270 
Innovation Center  (17) (12) 
Corporate Activities  (141) (150)  
Total continuing operations  929 989 
Discontinued operations  82 86 
Total  1,011  1,075  
Capital employed at 31 December  
x € million  2020  2019 
Nutrition  8,308  6,731 
Materials  953 1,060  
Innovation Center  436 599 
Corporate Activities  - 38 
Total continuing operations  9,697  8,428  
Discontinued operations  863 883 
Total  10,560  9,311  
ROCE  
in % 2020  2019 
Nutrition  12.6 13.9 
Materials  16.4 25.0 
Total continuing operations  10.4 12.3 
Discontinued operations  9.2 9.6 
Total  10.3 12.0 
Capital expenditure  
x € million  2020  2019 
Nutrition  441 420 
Materials  63 84 
Innovation Center  35 30 
Corporate Activities  34 30 
Total continuing operations  573 564 
Discontinued operations  49 59 
Total, accounting based  622 623 
Non-cash items  (13) 4 
Customer funding  (24) (18) 
Total, cash -based  585 609 
In % of net sales  6.5 6.8 Report by the Managing Board – Profit 
R&
D expenditure (including associated IP expenditure)  
x € million  as % of net sales  
2020  2019 2020  2019 
Nutrition  234 218 3.7 3.6 
Materials  73 73 4.8 4.2 
Innovation Center  60 57 32.6 31.0 
Corporate Activities  11 13 28.2 31.0 
Total continuing operations  378 361 4.7 4.5 
Discontinued operations  60 55 6.4 5.4 
Total  438 416 4.8 4.6 
Workforce at 31 December  
headcount  2020  2019 
Nutrition  15,838  14,599  
Materials  2,857  2,951  
Innovation Center  579 683 
Corporate Activities  2,039  2,087  
Total continuing operations  21,313  20,320  
Discontinued operations  1,814  1,854  
Total  23,127  22,174  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  90 Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  91 Review of business  
Nutrition  
At a glance  
-€6,365 Net sales versus € 6,028 in 2019 (in millions)
-21.0% Adjusted EBITDA margin ver sus 20.7% in 2019 and versus a >20% ambition
-50 animal nutrition premix facilities and 15 human nutrition premix facilities
-> €1 billion of our sales in 2020 came from immunity -optimizing ingredients
-#1 supplier of energy -saving enzyme solutions to the global brewing industry
-> 70% of our skin care portfolio is > 90% natural in origin
About DSM Nutrition  
Our Nutrition cluster  comprises DSM Nutritional Products , DSM Food Specialties  and DSM Hydrocolloids . This cluster 
provides solutions for animal precision nutrition and feed, food  & beverages, pharmaceuticals, medical nutrition, early life 
nutrition, nutrition improvement, dietary supplements , personalized nutrition  and personal care. We are active at all stages  
of the associated  value chains , producing p ure active ingredients, incorporati ng them  into sophisticated forms and  
provi ding tailored premixes, forward solutions and branded consumer products. Our unique portfolio of products and 
services is global and highly diversified, serving customers and other stakeholders locally across an extensive range of 
end-markets worldwide . 
With our ‘global products, local solutions’  business model, we have successfully built a unique, broad, highly integrated 
and profitable growth business. Our results are testament to the strength and uniqueness of this business model, delivering 6% organic growth and an increase in Adjusted EBITDA margin from 17% to 21% during the period 2015 –2019. We 
are expanding our business model with leading Precision & Personalization propositi ons in this rapidly emerging market. 
More detail on our Nutrition & Health business model can be found in 
Strategy . 
Trends  
Our Nutrition business addresses two significant trends : in animal nutrition and health, the urgent need to enable the 
sustainable production of animal protein, and in human nutrition and health, the growing demand for (personalized) health solutions.  
Enabling the sustainable production of animal protein  
The world’s population is projected to reac h 9.7 billion by 205031. At the same time, demand for healthier, balanced, and  
more nutrient -dense diets is increasing — driven not only by the growth of the world’s population but also by changing 
health awareness and consumer expectations. Even with call s for a more balanced consumption of animal protein and 
replacement by vegetable alternatives, demand is still likely to grow as many populations need to raise their animal protein intake to attain a level of balanced, healthy nutrition. Enabling 
sustainab le animal production  is therefore of 
paramount importance.  
Animal -based proteins are highly nutritious and form a key part of a balanced, healthy diet . Their consumption is also 
central to many cultures, and animal -source foods and other animal -source pro ducts play an important socio- economic 
1 Source: UN. Review of Business – Nutrition  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  92  role in those cultures. However, livestock production comes at a cost. This cost is increasingly evident. Rising demand for 
animal protein is driving up greenhouse gas emissions and piling pressure on natural resource s. In some cases, this 
pressure has already transgressed accepted planetary boundaries. The planetary boundaries include the Earth ’s limits of 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, biochemical flows, water quality and quantity, land use, and biodiversity.  The ag ri-food 
sector is one of the major contributors to global GHG emissions, and almost a third of wild fisheries are overexploited.  The 
sustainability of animal protein production is now front and center in the minds of many, and calls for change from the value chain, policy makers and associated stakeholders are widespread.  
Our solutions  
We strongly believe in sustainable animal farming and  food systems, and that the livestock industry can transform itself 
from within to deliver solutions to the challenges facing society and the animal protein industry. We want to play a key role in this transformation . That is why in 
Animal Nutrition & Health , we focus on the following six sustainability platforms  to 
support our customer, the livestock value chain and other s takeholders to address the environmental challenges facing 
our planet:  
- Improving the lifetime performance of farm animals  
- Making efficient use of natural resources  
- Reducing emissions from livestock  
- Helping tackle antimicrobial resistance 
- Reducing our reliance on marine resources  
- Improving the nutritional quality of  meat, milk, fish and eggs while reducing food loss and waste  
 
To tackle these challenges , we have an extensive existing portfolio  of carotenoids, feed enzymes and vitamin portfolio. For 
exam ple, our enzymes help animals digest more efficiently and extract more nutritional value from the feed. They 
therefore still grow well even when consuming less. As a result, fewer natural resources, such as land and water, are needed for animal protein pro duction.  We are also  rolling out our methane -reducing feed additive for ruminants, Bovaer® 
and further extending our capabilities in precision nutrition, building on the foundations of our globally recognized Optimum Vitamin Nutrition™  (OVN™) concept. More  information on our solutions for sustainable animal farming can be 
found in this 
case study .  
The growing demand for ( personalized ) health solutions 
Despite the increasing attention being given to the central role  of nutrition  in supporting immune function and healthy 
growth and development, the world continues to face a wide range of food -related health issues and challenges. Today, 
according to the 2020 Global Nutrition Report, “O ne in every nine people in the wo rld is hungry, and one in every three is 
overweight or obese. More and more countries experience the double burden of malnutrition, where undernutrition coexists with overweight, obesity and other diet -related non -communicable diseases (NCDs). The trend is  clear: progress is 
too slow to meet the global targets. Not one country is on course to meet all ten of the 2025 global nutrition targets and just 8 of 194 countries are on track to meet four targets. Almost a quarter of all children under 5 years of age are stunted. At the same time, overweight and obesity are increasing rapidly in nearly every country in the world, with no signs of slowing. ” 
While many low - and middle -income countries are still grappling with fundamental problems of food and nutrition 
security, the world’s food systems as a whole are coming under growing scrutiny. Food poverty  exists in even the richest 
countries of the world, as the continuing prevalence of food banks attests. Governments, NGOs, academia and the private sector worldwide need to develop evidence- based approaches that will deliver affordable, accessible and nutritious diets 
for all people in all countries at all stages of the life  cycle.  
The crucial role of nutrition in supporting immune function was thrown into sharper perspective than ever during the 
COVID -19 pandemic, accelerating the existing trend toward personalized health and nutrition. The pandemic 
simultaneously accelerated the use of digital communications in delivering these solutions, as consumers increasingly sought to boost their immune systems with the aid of fortified foods and dietary supplements.  Review of Business – Nutrition  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  93  There is a growing demand for plant -based alternatives  alongside traditional meat and dairy products, as consu mers 
search for foods that deliver an authentic eating experience without compromising on taste and texture. Whether for 
personal, health or sustainability reasons, or from plain curiosity, more and more people are adding plant -based options 
to their food choices and are adopting flexitarian, vegetarian, or vegan diets. At the same time, the importance of a quality nutritional profile is attracting increasing recognition.   
There is also growing interest worldwide in personalized nutrition  — science- based, data- driven nutritional solutions 
tailored to consumers' specific health goals and needs. Differences in age, genotype and health status mean that individuals can react in very different ways to the same foods. Personalized nutrition allows individuals to m ake dietary 
choices tailored to their specific needs, reducing their  exposure to a wide range of non -communicable diseases and 
helping to lower healthcare costs.  
Our solutions  
We have expanded our existing portfolio of nutritional ingredients  (such as food  enzymes, nutritional lipids,  carotenoids 
and cultures) through for example our 2020 acquisition of Glycom, the world’s leading supplier of human milk oligosaccharides  (HMOs) and our acquisition of capabilities in hydrocolloids between 2017 and 2019. Our offering in 
probiotics and prebiotics is driven by a mixture of in -house innovation (including partnerships) and targeted acquisitions. 
We also develop in -house and together with partners our own offerings in the fields of sugar -free sweeteners 
(EVERSWEET™) , skin actives and sun filters.  
As a global pioneer in the industrial production of vitamins, we cover the entire range of critical micronutrients , whose 
efficacy continues to reveal itself in new ways. We have, for example, a new range of Market -Ready Sol utions  (MRS)  to 
enable our customers to launch new immunity -supporting products in a matter of months . Another example of an 
immunity- supporting solution is Ampli -D. Fast -evolving evidence suggests an association More information on how we 
accelerated  the launch of nutritional solutions supporting immunity  can be found in this case study . between vitamin D 
status and sensitivity to viral infections like COVID -19 incidence and severity. However, it can take up to several months for 
a person to reach an optimal vitamin D status. Ampli- D helps raise vitamin D levels three to five times faster, compared to 
vitamin D3.  
In the field of meat alternatives , we off er a range of solutions for meat analogs that deliver proteins, authentic meaty 
taste and create succulent, chewy texture. At the same time, because our yeast extracts unlock full umami flavor, producers can reduce the amount of added salt in their recipes , improving the health appeal. In this  
case study on meat and dairy 
alternatives  you can find more detail on how we enabl e tastier, more nutritious plant -based choices for consumers . 
Partnerships  
We have many partnerships  that support and accelerate innovation in Nutrition.  
Animal Nutrition & Health  
In Animal Nutrition & Health  we have, for example:  
- The world -leading Feed Enzymes Alliance of DSM and Novozymes, which brings together the complementary  
competencies and technologies of our two companies to deliver feed enzyme innovation to our customers  
- Veramaris, our 50:50 joint venture with Evonik, developed an  algal oil rich in  omega-3 fatty acids EPA and DHA for 
aquaculture and pet food  without using wild- caught fish  
- Our 75:25 partnership Yimante (Hubei Province, China), with Nenter, which strengthens our position in vitamin E, an 
essential ingredient in our animal nutrition premi x solutions  
Human Nutrition & Health  
In Human Nutrition & Health  partnerships include, for example:  
- Avansya , our partnership with Cargill to bring sustainably produced, great -tasting,  zero-calorie, cost -effective 
sweeteners to market faster  Review of Business – Nutrition  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  94  - Working with Panaceutics  and Wellmetrix  in the personalized nutrition area; we  combine their competences with 
our world -class nutrition science, products and solutions. We aim to be the partner of choice for dietary 
supplements as well as food & beverage b rand owners that wish to offer personalized and healthy nutrition  
- The collaboration with METEX NØØVISTA , with whom we launched a bio -sourced form of cosmetic grade 1,3 -
propanediol (PDO), a multifunctional ingredient sourced entirely from non -GMO feedstocks   
Nutrition performance 2020  
Highlights 2020  
- Completed change program  ‘Fit for Growth’ which positioned us closer to our  customers, while further reducing 
internal costs and complexities  
- Expanded our specialty nutrition portfolio  through three acquisitions  — CSK, Glycom  and Erber Group — for a 
combined outlay of around € 1.7 billion 
- Continued to advance our innovation projects  including Bovaer®, Avansya, and Veramaris, while expanding our 
innovation pipeline with new programs such as Ampli -D™ and CanolaPRO®  
- Refocused our innovation approach  centered around four growth platforms: Pathway s, Proteins, Prevention and 
Precision  
- Updated the long -term strategic plan,  including new opportunities in the ‘Health through Nutrition’ space for 
precision feeding in Animal Nutrition and personalization in Human Nutrition . 
 
DSM Nutrition delivered a good performance in 2020, with 6% organic sales growth mainly volume driven. Together with the +3% contribution of the recent acquisitions (CSK, Glycom and Erber Group) and the -3 % foreign exchange effect, total 
sales were up 6%.  
Nutrition reported 7% growth in Adjusted EBITDA, supported by higher volumes, with the contribution from the acquisitions 
(+4%) being offset by a negative foreign exchange effect (- 4%). The Adjusted EBITD A margin was up at 21.0% versus 20.7% 
last year owing to strong sales in Human Nutrition .  
x € million  2020   2019  
Net sales from continuing operations:    
DSM Nutritional Products:    
- Animal Nutrition & Health  3,025   2,892   
- Human Nutrition & Health  2,143   2,046   
- Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients  404  425  
- Other1 145  93  
Total DSM Nutritional Products  5,717  5,456   
DSM Food Specialties  648  572  
Total Nutrition  6,365   6,028   
Organic sales growth (in %)  6  2  
Adjusted EBITDA  1,338   1,250   
Adjusted operating profit  919  881  
Capital expenditure  441  420  
Capital employed at 31 December  8,308   6,731  
ROCE (in %)  12.6  13.9  
Adjusted EBITDA margin (in %)  21.0  20.7  
R&D expenditure  234  218  
Workforce at 31 December (headcount)  15,838   14,599   
1 ‘Other ’ covers pharma and custom manufacturing & services activities.  Review of Business – Nutrition  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  95 Net sales bridge 2020  
x € million  
DSM Nu
tritional Products  
DSM Nutritional Products  consists of Animal Nutrition & Health, Human Nutrition & Health , and Personal Care & Aroma 
Ingredients.  
DSM Nutritional Products saw a slightly positive impact from COVID -19 overall. Human Nutrition saw a strong increase in 
demand for immunity -optimizing products . In Animal Nutrition, overall demand  growth was good but COVID -19 impacted 
sales over the quarters due to stocking effects at customers. Personal Care was weak due to lower demand for sun care 
and cosmetics, while Aroma Ingredients saw good demand for detergents and disinfectants.   
Fit for G rowth  
Early in the year we launched the Fit for Growth program in DSM Nutrition al Products . By simplifying the operating model 
and further improving business steering, the program was designed to better serve customers  and respond to the 
differentiated needs of their respective end- markets. At the same time, it created a more efficient organiza tion, which 
helped  us to adjust to a more challenging environment. The new organizational structure is in place and we are working on 
further building out our specialty business.  
Health & Nutrition Campus  
In November, we announced the construction of the state -of-the-art DSM Nutritional Products Health & Nutrition Campus , 
which includes a new innovation building in Kaiseraugst ( Switzerland ). Accelerating innovation in the field of nutrition, 
health and bioscience, t his innovation hub will provide modern research laboratories and collaborative workplaces to 
maximize interaction and the agility between our scientific competences and business units to further boost our customer - 
centricity for joint solution development. The Campus represents our long-term co mmitment to enforce DSM’s position as 
an end -to-end partner in the nutrition and health markets .  
“2020 marked the fifth year in a row that we grew Sales and Adjusted 
EBITDA in line with our long -term objectives. On top of that, we made 
good strategic prog ress towards commercialization of our key 
innovation projects in both Animal and Human Nutrition & Health.”  
Chris Goppelsroeder, President & CEO DSM Nutritional Products  and member of the DSM Executive Committee  6,0286,3651%3% 5%-3%
Full year 2019 Volume Price/
mixFX Other Full year 2020Review of Business – Nutrition  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  96 Animal Nutrition  & Health  
Highlights 2020  
-Delivered 8% organic growth , supported by good sales in poultry and pork and a good performance in ruminant
and aquaculture.
-Uninterrupted supply  during the COVID -19 pandemic  supported by our well distributed global premix supply
network
-Acquisition of Erber Group ’s Biomin and Romer Labs , expanding our range of higher value -add specialty solutions
and access to diagnostics technology
-Opening of our seventh Animal Nutrition & Health premix plant  and upgrading of our Vitamin E Yimante
(partne rship with Nenter) site in China
-Ramping of output of Veramaris facility in  Blair (Nebraska, USA) and expansion into shrimp feed and pet food
-Launch of strategic initiative  ‘We Make It Possible’ to lead transformation in sustainable animal protein production
worldwide
About Animal Nutrition & Health  
Animal Nutrition & Health serves the global feed industry  with innovative and sustainable nutritional solutions. A pioneer 
since the earliest days of feed additives, we draw on the latest science to provide a unique portfolio that runs from 
vitamins through carotenoids to cutting -edge mycotoxin risk management solutions, feed safety diagnostic solutions , 
eubiotics, and feed enzym es. We aim to make animal farming more sustainable by reducing GHG emissions and the 
pressure on the environment. At the same time, we strive to ensure that farmers can earn a decent living and that people 
will have access to affordable proteins. For more information on our  Animal Nutrition & Health strategy and how we make 
animal farming more sustainable can be found in the Nutrition strategy section . 
Animal  Nutrition & Health performance  
Animal Nutrition delivered 8%  organic growth, equally driven by volume and price. The first quarter saw a strong COVID -19 
accelerated purchasing effect that faded through the second and third quarters as customers unwound their inventories. In the fourth quarter, volumes were normalized at 5%.  
Poultry saw good sales growth overall with increased demand as the COVID -19 lockdowns triggered higher demand for 
easy-to-prepare proteins. This growth was partly offset by softening demand in some emerging economies due to a 
general loss of hou sehold income. Pork saw good demand with production in China picking up as the effects of African 
Swine Fever recede and the steady rebuilding of the swine population continues with increased professionalization of farming. Together with regulatory changes  in China that require the reduction of the use of antibiotics in animal feed, 
these developments strengthen our value proposition in the Chinese market with its higher value -added nutrition and gut 
health solutions.  
While global beef and aquaculture demand were in general soft due to their significant exposure to food service channels, We performed well in these categories. We saw good sales growth in ruminants as Brazilian beef exports remained strong and demand for farmed salmonids was solid. Pet food saw strong demand throughout the year.  
Erber Group, which was consolidated from the fourth quarter of 2019, made a strong contribution in its first quarter within DSM, realizing €81 million sales, with a total Adjusted EBITDA of €18 million.   
Chicken and eg gs: an important protein source during COVID -19  
Our close collaboration with our poultry customers  around the world to protect the supply of key micronutrients and 
nutritional additives to broiler flocks  resulted in a good performance for the year. E ggs played an important role in  
providing consumers with quality  protein during COVID -19. Our partnership with the International Egg Commission (IEC) led 
to the development of working groups on sustainability and egg nutrition  in 2020. This approach  delivered  improved 
annual sales of our egg solutions . 
Successful navigation of African Swine Fever (ASF) crisis  
African Swine Fever (ASF) is one of the severest  crises experienced by animal farming in recent times. We navigated it well 
during 2020, thanks to our integrated and diversified business model. Managing ASF  has called for improved biosecurity, Review of Business – Nutrition  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  97 the accelerated  ad option of technology, and an increased level of professionalization across the entire pork industry.  DSM 
is benefiting from th ese industry developments, not only in China but also in other countries, such as Vietnam and the 
Philippines. 
Drive for more sustainable  aquaculture  and g rowing interest f or sustainability in pet food  
The drive for more sustainable aquaculture  continues,  and we are well placed to capitalize on this with our purpose -led 
innovation activities and our nutritional products and solutions portfolio.   
Ruminants: focus on feed efficiency and immunity  
The year 2020 was marked by  a strong focus on raw material utilization and feed efficiency in beef production in the US 
and Brazil; significant engagement from dairy producers in the areas of lifetime performance, immunity and fertilit y 
programs in Europe, the US, Brazil and East Asia ; and growing uptake for our rumen performance solution s addressing 
antimicrobial resistance in Europe, South America and China . 
Expansion of production in China  
In November, we announced the opening of our seventh Animal Nutrition & Health premix plant in China , situated in 
Baishazhou Industrial Park, Hengyang City (Hunan Province, China). This latest facility brings together our advanced 
processes and innovative solutions to promote sustainable animal protein production in the Chinese market.  The opening 
of the new plant also marked the official launch of the first DSM Vitamins Academy. Serving as a new platform for market outreach and education, the Academy will share the latest scientific research and practices with players across the animal feed and husbandry value chain.  
The vitamin E plant  owned by the DSM –Nenter joint venture (Yimante) in C hina started production at the end of December 
2020. Output is planned  to gradually ramp up during the course of 2021.   
Acquisition of Biomin and Romer Labs  
On 1 October 2020, we acquired Erber Group’s Biomin and Romer Labs . Erber Group’s specialty animal nutrition and health 
business, Biomin, specializes primarily in mycoto xin risk management and gut health performance management, while  the 
Romer Labs business focuses on food and feed safety diagnostic solutions. The acquisition expands our range of higher value -add specialty solutions and  further strengthens our exper tise a nd reputation as a leading provider of animal health 
and nutrition solutions for farm productivity and sustainability, with an emphasis on emissions reduction, feed consumption efficiency, and better use of water and land.  
Ramping up production of Veramar is® algal -based omega -3 
We had commenced  commercial -scale production of algal -based omega -3 at our Veramaris facility in Blair (Nebraska, 
USA) in 2019 . Our proprietary technology delivers a breakthrough in the cultivation of marine algae naturally rich in EPA 
and DHA omega -3, facilitating production on an unprecedented scale. In 2020, we started to generate sales and began 
ramping up output from this facility. We additionally started work on incorporating Veramaris ® into feed for additional  
species such as shrimp , as well as into pet food . Veramaris was chosen as the o mega -3 partner by Feed -X, the feed 
innovation accelerator  founded by the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) which aims to see 10% of the global feed industry adopt 
alternative feed ingredients into value chains .  
Combating emissions from ruminants with Bovaer®  
We commenced  the process of register ing our Bovaer ® methane inhibitor solution  in Europe , entering into  dialogue with  
the European Food Safety Authority ( EFSA) subsequent to th e submission of the registration dossier in 2019. Bovaer® is the 
most extensively studied and scientifically proven solution to the challenge of enteric (burped ) methane from ruminants to 
date. We were pleased that at the end of 2020, a  two-year large -scale trial in beef cattle in Alberta ( Canada) successfully 
demonstrated that Bovaer®  can be included in commercial feedlot diets to reduce methane emissions by up to 80%, 
without negative effects on animal health and performance. Over the past ten years, 35 o n-farm beef and dairy trials have 
been conducted across the globe, delivering  convincing data from over 10,000 animals and in the context of various  
feeding systems. A further positive development was the announcement of the collaboration agreement with VA LIO to 
significantly reduce the carbon footprint of dairy production in Finland.  Review of Business – Nutrition  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  98 Enabling the replacement of antibiotic growth promoters (AGPs)  
Balancius ™, developed together with our long -term alliance partner Novozymes, is an innovation that helps farmer s tackle 
the issue of antimicrobial resistance (AMR) . Balancius™ supports digestion  and gastrointestinal functionality and improves 
animal performance. In 2020 , the Chinese Ministry of Agriculture , for example, introduced legislation  to withdraw antibiotic 
feed additives as growth promoters. This move was positive  for innovations such as Balancius™, but also for our existing 
eubiotics solutions, such as VevoVitall® , which combats  the negative activity of micro -organisms on feed.   
Deve lopment of Sustainability Service and Precision Nutrition platform  
Effective measurement at farm level is essential to enable farmers to work on sustainability topics. The same applies for 
Precision Nutrition; helping farmers to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of their farm practices.  To this end,  in 2020 , 
we started developing a service  that enables farmers to see their own environmental footprint  in its entirety. Pr oviding 
this level of  transparency will create opportunities for farmers to reduce emissions and differentiate themselves from less 
sustainable competitors. Additionally, we made good progress in advancing our Precision Nutrition p latform in poultry in 
the USA to facilitate diagnostic testing to address health challenges.   
Human Nutriti on & Health  
Highlights 2020  
-Dietary Supplements and Pharma  recorded a very strong performance
-Uninterrupted supply  during the COVID -19 pandemic
-Rise in demand for immunity -optimizing ingredients  stimulated by COVID -19
-Acquisition of Glycom A/S , the world’s leading supplier of human milk oligosaccharides
-Full integration of personalized nutrition platform AVA  and start of Hologram Sciences Inc. venture
-Launch of enhanced purpose -led brand strategy  designed to support continuing growth trajectory based on high -
quality products, customized solutions and expert services
About Human Nutrition and Health  
Human Nutrition & Health provides solutions for early life nutrition, dietary supplement, pharmaceut ical, medical nutrition, 
nutrition improvement and food & beverage markets. We serve these industries with : 
-a portfolio of high -quality products (vitamins, nutritional lipids, minerals, carotenoids, human milk oligosaccharides
(HMOs), nutraceuticals, digestive enzymes, probiotics and prebiotics, as well as active pharmaceutical ingredients(APIs)
-a suite of customized solutions (premix, Market -Ready Solutions and personalized nutrition)
-a range of expert services
Human Nutrition & Health performance  
Human N utrition delivered 5% organic growth, with volumes up 7%. Dietary Supplements and Pharma recorded a very 
strong performance throughout the year, as COVID -19 drove strong consumer demand for immunity -optimizing products. 
The Food & Beverages segment also performed well with the strong demand for packaged food recorded in the first two quarters normalizing in the second half. Early Life Nutrition sales were soft especially due to weak market conditions in China, the biggest market for infant formula.  
Prices significantly improved as the lower vitamin C price effect faded during the year, while Early Life Nutrition saw lower contractual prices in 2020.  
Total sales were equal to the organic growth at 5%, as the - 2% foreign exchange effect fully offset the +2% co ntribution 
from the Glycom acquisition.   
Glycom, the world’s largest developer and producer of human milk oligosaccharides (HMOs), which was consolidated as of  
1 April 2020, delivered €43 million sales with an Adjusted EBITDA of €21 million.  Review of Business – Nutrition  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  99 These results reflected ongoing soft market conditions in Early Life Nutrition, with COVID -19 al so impacting Glycom’s 
development work at customers . The work on its second and third generation HMOs continued at pace, with Glycom 
strengthening its innovation pipeline and reinforcing its industry leadership in early life nutrition.  
Expansion along the value chain  
A growing proportion of our revenue now comes from expert services , especially for the pharma market, and customized 
solutions . Our customized solutio ns — besides premixes — include Market -Ready Solutions (MRS) that address diverse 
health or lifestyle benefits. They also include the personalized nutrition sector, a key pillar in our nutrition strategy.  
Growth in dietary supplements 
The COVID -19 pandemic  increased consumer focus on immunity and overall health , heightening awareness of the health 
benefits associated with brands and intensifying the significance of e- commerce. Additionally, a f ast-evolving body of 
evidence suggests an association between vi tamin D status and sensitivity to viral infections like COVID -19 incidence and 
severity. As a result , the health benefit categories that grew most due to COVID -19 were immunity and mental well- being. 
We were well prepared to meet this rise in demand, helpi ng our dietary supplement customers around the world to launch 
new immunity -supporting products in record time.  Important achievements in this context in 2020 included:  
-Rapid forecasting of consumer demand to enable our customers to keep up their supply of  products to their
markets. Compliance with unprecedented demand peaks, at times up to 30% in a month
-Specific ingredients to enhance our customers’ existing product ranges with immunity offerings including Ampli -D,
our three to five times faster -acting vitamin D
-Complete new range of Market -Ready Solutions to enable our customers to launch new immunity- supporting
products in a matter of months
-Immunity Probiotics Market- Ready Solution range via our BioCare Copenhagen organization for our customers
focusing on the pharmacy channel
-Global launch of Culturelle® immune defense product line for both adults and children and the launch of the
Culturelle® brand in the Brazil market
-Focus on e -commerce and direct -to-consumer channels to capitalize on the shift in consumer shopping behavior
Pharma and Medical Nutrition  growth  
Our growth in the pharmaceutical sector  came from implementing our value selling strategy, while big steps were made in 
operational and regulatory excellence. We continued to outperform the medical nutrition  market driven by premix growth  
and our immunity supporting ingredie nts.  
Acquisition of Glycom in E arly Life Nutrition  
In February 2020, we announced the acquisition of Glycom A/S  (‘Glycom’), the world ’s leading supplier of human milk 
oligosaccharides (HMOs). This acquisition expanded our leadership position in the early life nutrition space. There is also 
significant interest in the use of HMOs as a dietary supplement  and potentially in food & beverage  applications.  Glycom 
is a major pioneer in HMOs, with a rich, science-backed product pipeline (GlyCare™) and the only ful ly integrated HMO 
production facility in the world. The GlyCare portfolio currently comprises six HMOs that are commercially available across 
165 countries. The exciting potential of cross -innovation outside Early Life Nutrition was highlighted in 2020 thr ough the 
launch by DSM’s i -Health business of a new Culturelle® product range containing HMOs to support a healthy gut 
microbiome and helping the management of irritable bowel syndrome.  
Food & Beverage supported by increased focus on health  
We have developed and launched concepts  supporting immune health,  meeting the demand for food and beverages 
designed to support immunity, that have grown in popularity. An  increased focus on health is triggering a windfall in 
consumer health and wellness s pending, and has positively impacted our growth.  
Personalized nutrition: Integration of AVA  and start new Hologram Sciences venture 
At the end of  2019, we acquired AVA, a personalized nutrition platform , to further expand our offering and meet growing 
consumer demand in the Dietary Supplement space. During 2020, AVA was integrated into our new US -based personalized 
nutrition venture — Hologram Sciences, Inc. — bringing together all of the necessary capabilities needed to develop end -
to-end turnkey personali zed nutrition solutions that are  commercially validated with consumers.  Review of Business – Nutrition  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  100 Personalized nutrition is the next frontier in health . We are creating a new business in nutritional science, diagnostics and 
advanced recommendation technology that will ultimately cr eate consumer -facing concepts for targeted health conditions. 
Everybody (and every body) is different, and people who are conscious about health increasingly want individually tailored 
solutions. Hologram Sciences, Inc. will build on recent advances in diagnostics and technology to create science- based, 
data-driven solutions.  
Nutrition Improvement  
Our activities in the field of nutrition education continued in 2020, highlighting the importance of multiple micronutrient 
supplementation (MMS) for vulnerable populations, especially in the light of the COVID -19 pandemic. UNICEF, for example, 
recommended the use of MMS for pregnant women , to help meet their increased micronutrient needs and support healthy 
pregnancy outcomes during the pandemic.  
‘Products with Purpose’  
In October, we unveiled our enhanced purpose -led brand strategy  ‘Products with Purpose’. Based on the targe ted 
development of new products, selected acquisitions, and a strategic focus on key market segments, the new strategy is designed to support our continuing growth trajectory.  
Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients  
Highlights 2020  
-Aroma ingredients sales  were supported by increased demand for detergents and disinfectants.
-Launch of sustainable innovations and services  in personal care to meet the trend toward sustainable
consumption
-Improved digital presence , distributor and lead management, as well refreshed positioning externally
About Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients  
Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients offers solutions for customers in the personal care, home care, and fine fragrance markets. Our 
extensive portfolio  includes aroma ingredients, vitam ins and natural bio-actives, as well as UV filters, 
peptides and polymers. Our solutions support the health and beauty needs of an aging population with various skin and hair types around the world, and address increasing concerns around global public heal th issues such as air pollution and 
skin cancer.  
Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients performance  
Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients  recorded -4% organic sales development in 2020, due to weak demand in sun 
protection and cosmetics which started to recover in the fourth quarter. Sales of Aroma Ingredients were good throughout the year, supported by increased demand for detergents and disinfectants.  
Resilience in the face of COVID -19 
Sales of fine fragrances declined due to new patterns of working from home, physical distancing, and mask- wearing during 
2020. However, this effect was offset by increased uptake for  household cleaning products , which drove sales of aroma 
ingredients in this sector. Sun care products were affected by the pandemic’s restrictive effect on outdoor recreational 
activities and tourism. This impacted the market in UV filters for sun protection.  
On the upside, COVID -19 accelerated the trend toward conscious, sust ainable consumption  in personal care. We 
responded with the launch of sustainable and resilient innovations and services for sun, hair and skin care applications such as the innovative glow -enhancing peptide,
 SYN-GLOW™ . 
We also upgraded our free online for mulation lab tool Sunscreen Optimizer™  by adding a function for easily evaluating 
the eco -profile of products.   
Partnerships and portfolio expansion 
Through our new partnership with  METEX NØØVISTA , we launched a sustainable form of cosmetic grade 1,3- propanediol 
(PDO), a multifunctional ingredient sourced entirely from non -GMO feedstocks. This bio-sourced cosmetic grade of PDO 
imparts preservative boosting properties while respecting the skin microbiome.  Review of Business – Nutrition  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  101 We also signed a collaboration and commercializ ation agreement with  S-Biomedic . With this agreement we aim to bring a 
new probiotic technology -based skin care active for the treatment of acne to market . 
Growth of e -commerce and c ontinued sustainability drive and improved go- to-market  
Niche and Indie br ands  with an e -commerce offering and a social media presence gained leverage in 2020, and there was 
a positive impact from companies hastening to build online platforms.  To address this trend, we improved digital presence, 
distributor and lead management, as well refreshed our positioning externally . 
We completed the roll -out of our Imp’Act Card™ program  — a tool to provide customers data around four pillars of 
sustainability: environmental impact, social impact, traceability and identity.  We additionally i ntroduced multiple programs 
to improve how we go to market , including improving our digital presence and our distributor and lead management, as 
well as rolling out our refreshed positioning externally.  
DSM Food  Specialties 
Highlights 2020  
-Delivered 4% org anic growth , with good demand for savory and dairy throughout the year
-Integration of CSK ’s specialty dairy solutions business
-Successful launch of EVERSWEET®  sweetener across multiple segments in initial markets
About DSM Food Specialties  
DSM Food Specialties  is a leading global supplier of specialty food enzymes, cultures, probiotics, bio -preservation, 
hydrocolloids, sugar reduction, and savory taste solution s to customers in the food & beverage industry in dairy, baking, 
beverages, and savory. Our ingredients and solutions are widely used to create a broad range of food products, from 
grocery favorites such as yogurt, cheese and soups to specialized products including gluten -free bread and beer, plant -
based meat alternatives and dairy alternatives, lactose -free milk, and sugar -reduced foods and beverages.  
Demand for our products is driven by five main market trends : enhanced taste experience; improved health a nd wellness; 
sugar reduction; more efficient and sustainable production; and reduction of food loss and waste. At the center of it all is the consumer, who increasingly seeks food that is both health y and eco-friendly.  
With over 150 years’ experience in biosciences and fermentation,  we aim to enable better food for everyone, helping to 
make existing diets healthier and more sustainable, and giving growing numbers of people around the world access to affordable, quality food.  
DSM Food Specialties performanc e 
Food Specialties delivered a good performance (+4%) with an overall neutral effect from COVID -19 on sales. Demand for 
especially savory and dairy was good throughout the year, while demand for hydrocolloids was soft.  
CSK acquired at the end of 2019, strengthened Food Specialties’ portfolio of taste, texture and bio -preservation solutions for 
semi -hard cheeses. CSK recorded a strong performance in 2020, completing the integration ahead of schedule, delivering 
€69 millio n of sales and a total Adjusted EBITDA of €16 million, well ahead of the business plan for the initial year.  
Integration of CSK’s specialty dairy solutions business  
In dairy, our largest segment in food & beverages, the integration of CSK’s specialty dair y solutions business, acquired at 
the end of 2019, progressed well. The synergies  generated exceeded our expectations regarding both top - and bottom -line 
performance. This highly complementary acquisition has allowed us to add a state -of-the-art dairy cult ures production 
facility in the strategically important EMEA region; to broaden our portfolio of specialty ingredients; and to further deepen our application expertise. This strengthens our ability to deliver solutions tailored to the precise needs of cheese and fresh dairy producers worldwide.  
Fermentative Stevia  
The Avansya partnership with Cargill  for fermentative Stevia had a good first full year of operation after the commercial -
scale fermentation facility came on stream at the end of 2019. Consumer e nd-products including the EVERSWEET® Review of Business – Nutrition  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  102 sweetener were launched successfully across multiple segment s by  our customers in our initial markets, with many more 
product development projects underway.  
Baking  and Beverages  
In baking, we saw increased interest in including o mega -3 fatty acids in bread and baked goods. Meanwhile the new baking 
enzymes introduced in 2019 to help customers extend freshness and reduce food waste garnered a prestigious Ringier 
Technology Innovation Award . 
Production efficiency improvements and a reduced environmental footprint remain major drivers in the beverages sector. 
We introd uced a new enzymatic solution  to help brewers differentiate by means of new flavors as well as to increase 
brewing flexibility and capacity  through increased use of locally available adjuncts.  
Strong demand in s avory taste ingredients  and growing market for p lant-based, vegetarian and vegan options  
There was strong demand  for our savory taste ingredients as consumers , especially in Asia,  turned to flavor- filled store -
cupboard essentials such as noodles and soups . 
The market for plant -based, vegetarian and vegan options alongside traditional meat and dairy choices is booming. 
Increasing numbers of consumers are adopting a ‘flexitarian’ approach to mealtimes. We launched comprehensive 
portfolios of integrated solutions for both  meat and dairy alternatives , leveraging the full range of our capabilities across 
taste and flavor solutions including sodium and sugar reduction, texturizing hydrocolloids, vitamins and micronutrients, and enzymatic processing aids. For more information, see the 
plant -based case study  on this topic.  
Partnership with Avril to bring CanolaPRO™ to market   
Our innovative, plant -based protein CanolaPRO ™ also provides an excellent basis for meat and dairy alternatives, offering 
versatile functional benefits in terms of taste and texture, as well as being a nutritionally complete protein. In 2020, we established the Olatein joint v enture together with Avril to produce and bring CanolaPRO™ to market, with commercial 
introduction expected in 2022. This partnership draws on the unique know -how of both partners, including our patented 
process and technology for extracting high -quality p rotein from canola meal and Avril’s 35 -year legacy in oilseed and 
protein crop production. Construction of a state- of-the-art production facility is underway in Dieppe ( France) .  
Hydrocolloids demand impacted by COVID -19 
Another growth platform is hydrocol loids  — thickeners and stabilizers that dissolve, disperse or swell in water to provide a 
broad range of important functionalities and physical attributes including gelling, texture, mouthfeel, viscosity and suspension. Our hydrocolloids are primarily delivered in the form of plant -extracted pectin and fermentation -derived bio -
gums. Both are used as gelling and stabilizing agents in a variety of foods and beverages. Demand for our hydrocolloids was impacted in 2020 by a drop in overall demand for on -the-go foods and beverages as a result of the COVID -19 
pandemic . Interest grew meanwhile in their application in meat and dairy alternatives .  Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  103 Materials 
At a glance  
-€1,518 Net sales  from continuing operations  versus € 1,744 in 2019 (in millions)
--12% Organic sales development (continuing operations) versus -9% in 2019
-17.9% Adjusted EBITDA margin  (continuing operations)  versus 21.3% in 2019
-100% renewable electricity used in the manu facture of materials for Apple’s products as of  2020
-100% of Engineering Materials portfolio to contain alternatives with  >25% recycled and/or bio -based content by weight
in final product by 2030
-1 metric ton of bio -based Dyneema® generates 5 tons less CO 2eq compared to 1 metric ton of fossil -based Dyneema®
"In a year of significant market challenges, our employees, together 
with our customers and partners, have demonstrated remarkable resilience, keeping us on track to deliver a more agile and customer -
driven growth organization."  
Helen Mets, Executive Vice President DSM Materials  and member of the DSM Executive Committee  
About DSM Materials 
Our Materials cluster comprises DSM Engineering Materials  and DSM Protective Materials . The cluster comprises a high -
quality portfolio of specialty materials for global end -markets including electrical components and electronics, automotive, 
food packaging, medical, personal protection, commercial marine, and apparel. Through our advanced and sustainable 
solutions , we a re meeting demand for safer materials, greater efficiency and improved environmental performance. 
Sale of DSM Resins & Functional Materials  
On 30 September 2020, we announced an  agreement to sell DSM Resins & Functional Materials (RFM) , including DSM 
Niaga®, DSM Additive Manufacturing  and the coatings a ctivities  of DSM  Advanced Solar  to Covestro AG , a specialty 
materials player, for an e quity value of €1.6 billion. The combination of RFM and Covestro AG will create a business of 
enhanced scale and technological capability that will benefit existing and p otential customers as well as its employees by 
providing a stronger platform for sustainable growth.  These businesses join a new home with a  leading position  in their 
sector, a  track record of investment , and values  closely aligned with  our own, including sustainability and care for people. 
We expect to close the transaction in the first half of  2021. As of the third quarter of  2020, the divested businesses were 
classified as ‘held for sale’, and the net result from these discontinued operations is reported  separately  in the 
consolidated financial statements in Note 3 Change in the scope of the consolidation . 
Agility to Grow  
As part of a wider restructuring initiative to leverage synergies and increase operating agility without compromising the 
potential of the business, we started as of September to execute our Agility to Grow  program. This will deliver annualized 
recurring c ost savings of €15 –20 million in Materials, excluding the portion previously attributable to the Resins and 
Functional Materials businesses.   Review of Business – Materials  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  104 Trends  
Adapting to continuously  changing conditions  
Our expertise in m aterials science, combined with our close connection to customers,  helps  us produce many of the 
engineering thermoplastics and high -performance fibers that appear in products  central  to our everyday lives  — from cars 
and electronics through packaging and construction to sports, medical equip ment and the marine sector. Through our 
innovations , we address pressing global issues such as  climate change and make a major contribution to the  circular and 
bio-based economy and improved health  and well -being . 
We operate in an increasingly volatile wor ld, in which we need to adapt to continuously changing macro -economic 
conditions, such as the COVID -19 pandemic. Our customers’ needs are changing rapidly, innovation cycles are getting 
shorter, and speed to market  has never been more important.  
Trends in  automotive, electronics, medical and healthcare  
Advanced materials with ever-higher performance levels are required  across a wide range of applications and industries 
today:  
-In automotive , society’s urgent requirement for sustainable transportation syste ms calls for higher -performing
materials that enable autonomous, lightweight and more energy- efficient automotive design
-In electronics , consumers are increasingly seeking ‘smart’ connected, customized products that require high -
performance materials in order to enable device connectivity, convenience, and efficiency
-In medical and healthcare applications , there is increased demand for products to protect the body, such as medical
gowns and medical face masks; this trend has been increased by the effects of  the COVID -19 pandemic
Other key trends 
-Facilitating the creation of a circular economy : across the globe, circular economy concepts such as bio -based
materials, end -of-life material recovery and closed -loop solutions are the hot topics in sustainability dialogues;
consumer sentiment and regulatory pressure are combining to stimulate the development of materials that can drive
the transition toward a circular economy — materials that are bio- based, recycled -based, reusable and recyclable
-The continued importance of safety : people are increasingly aware of the importance of safety, including s afe
manufacturing, product safety and product stewardship; we offer solutions that eliminate or reduce the use ofhazardous substances
Innovation & Sustainability  
Our innovations are focused on delivering sustainable solutions  to meet customer demands for a better environmental 
footprint and the transition toward a circular and bio- based economy.  
Taking the next step to increase sustainability value  
In 2020, our Materials businesses took the next steps in implementing innovation programs to reduce the envi ronmental 
impact  of their operations and to increase the sustainability value they deliver. Examples include:  
-DSM Engineering Materials made a commitment in 2019  that it will offer a full portfolio of alternativ es that contain at
least 25% recycled - and/or bio -based content by 2030  
-As intermediate steps, we laun ched mass balance bio -based grades  of our Stanyl® PA46 and Akulon® PA6 portfolio®
as well as a 100% bio -based EcoPaXX® PA410 grade in 2020
-We also introduced recycled -based  Akulon® PA6 for flexible packaging solutions
-DSM Protective Materials has introduced  Bio-based Dyneema®  and is committed to sourcing at least 60% of its raw
materials from bio-based feedstocks by 2030Review of Business – Materials  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  105 Part
nerships driving sustainable innovation  
It takes partnerships to drive a circular and bio -based economy . We have  many partnerships  and coalitions that support 
and accelerate customer -driven sustainable innovation — for example, value -chain partnerships to enhance the transition 
toward a more circular and bio- based economy . We established, for example:  
-An industry coalition  comprising customers, waste processors and recycling companies to address the recycling of
products made with Dyneema® fiber; moreover, an end -of-life program was set up with the goal of recycling the
materials in a closed loop through continuous use and recovery
-A partnership with our strategic supplier SABIC  to enable the transition toward bio- based Dyneema®
-Partnerships with various companies in our value chain  to accelerate the transition toward alternatives for our
engineering materials portfolio base d on bio -based waste and/or plastic -waste -based feedstock; SABIC, Neste and
Fibrant/Highsun were among these partners.
Materials performance 
Highlights 2020  
-Materials  was significantly impacted by COVID -19, but saw a strong recovery during the fourth quarter
-Announced sale  of DSM Resins & Functional Materials and associated businesses, building on our approach of
actively managing our businesses
-Launch of restructurin g initiative to leverage synergies, increase operating agility and deliver cost savings of
€15–20 million annually
-Strong progress  toward bio-based and recycled -based alternatives across our Materials cluster
Materials financial results 2020  
In response t o the sudden drop in demand at the end of the first quarter  owing to the pandemic, DSM acted promptly to 
minimize capex and operating costs. After the summer a new costs savings program started, which is part of an ongoing 
wider structuring initiative to l everage synergies and increase operating agility.  
At the same time, Materials continued to develop innovative solutions aimed at addressing Sustainable Living challenges, to create higher -growth, high margin opportunities for its specialty activities.  
In the third quarter of  2020, DSM announced an agreement to sell DSM Resins & Functional Materials, including DSM 
Niaga®, DSM Additive Manufacturing and the coatings activities of DSM Advanced Solar to Covestro AG for an Equity Value of €1.6 billion. The transaction is expected to close during the first half of  2021 and DSM expects to receive approximately 
€1.4 billion net in cash following closing. As of the third quarter of  2020, the divested businesses are classified as ‘held for 
sale’ and the net result fr om these discontinued operations is separately reported in the income statement.  
Materials’ performance was significantly impacted by COVID -19, resulting in - 6% volume development in 2020. Demand 
deteriorated abruptly at the end of the first quarter . Foll owing a slow recovery over the summer, Materials saw a strong 
improvement from September onwards, especially in Engineering Materials, directly related to demand for automotive.  
Prices were down 6% , mainly reflecting lower input costs in DSM Engineering M aterials.  
Full year Adjusted EBITDA was -27% compared to previous year. This was driven by a negative operational leverage and 
particularly lower volumes in high margin specialties which recorded a strong performance in same period last year. Foreign excha nge had a small negative impact.  
The Adjusted EBITDA margin was 17.9% compared to 21.3% in 2019.  Review of Business – Materials  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  106 x € million  2020  2019 
Net sales from continuing operations:  
DSM Engineering Materials  1,217 1,406  
DSM Protective Materials  301 338 
Total  1,518  1,744  
Organic sales growth (in %, continuing operations)  (12) (9) 
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations  272 372 
Adjusted operating profit from continuing operations  168 270 
Capital expenditure  63 84 
Capital employed at 31 December  953 1,060  
ROCE (in %, continuing operations)  16.4 25.0 
Adjusted EBITDA margin (in %)  17.9 21.3 
R&D expenditure  73 73 
Workforce at 31 December (headcount)  2,857  2,951  
Net sales bridge 2020 
x € million 
DSM Engineering Materials 
Highlights 2020  
-Softness  in the global automotive segment, driven by COVID -19, negatively impacted volumes
-Launched strategy  to accelerate profitable growth while further diversifying into m edical and food & w ater
applications
-Continued shift  toward higher -value, sustainable, bio -based and recycled -based material alternatives and/or
materials with an improved environmental footprint
-Futureproofed and expanded  the capacity of our high-performance materials compounding plant in Evansville
(Indiana, USA)
About Engineering Materials  
DSM Engineering Materials provides high performance specialty materials  that address key market needs in automotive 
and electronics. Besides serving these two main sectors, we offer  sustainable engineering materials to specialized 
industries including water management, health/medical, electrical power distribution, food utensils and multilayer flexible 
food packaging.  
Engineering Materials performance 
Volumes were down -6% in DSM Eng ineering materials, driven by automotive . 1,744
1,518-1%-6%
-6%
0%
Full year 2019 Volume Price/
mixFX Other Full year 2020Review of Business – Materials  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  107 Accelerating future growth 
In 2020, we launched a strategy focused on accelerating profitable topline growth  while improving cost and margin 
management. This strategy also involves further expanding and diversify ing into high-growth, high -value markets  
including medical and food & water. In medical , we provide advanced materials such as Arnitel® for medical gowns and 
respiratory tubes, and Ar nite® for inhaler device components. With this we also play a crucial role in helping to combat the 
COVID -19 pandemic.  In food & water , we supply advanced materials for components in faucets, kitchen utensils & 
appliances, food dispensers and food conveyor belts. Our solutions help our customers create better, safer and more 
sustainable end -products.  
The quest for new and more sustainable forms of mobility, including electric vehicles, remains a key driver for our 
business. During 2020, we continued to shift our portfolio toward higher -value, specialty materials  with advanced grades 
and improved properties. We increased our number of differentiated grades, offering high performance in areas as diverse as heat resistance, thermal conductivity, electromagnetic interference shielding, electrical insulation performan ce, 
halogen -free flame retardancy, and hydrolysis resistance.  
Investing for the next generation of advanced materials  
We also started expanding the capacity of our high-performance materials compounding plant  in Evansville (Indiana, 
USA). The site will of fer advanced material solutions, including bio- based thermoplastics, for electrification, metal 
replacement and weight reduction across multiple industries.  
Advancing the circular and bio -based economy  
We launched several new solutions in support of reducing carbon footprint and advancing the circular and bio- based 
economy. In terms of carbon footprint reduction, we will be offering our existing Akulon® PA6 portfolio with a 50% 
reduction in carbon footprint  — the lowest PA6 carbon footprint in the market.  
We continued our ambitious sustainability program  designed to  offer a full portfolio of alternatives that contain at least 
25% recycled - and/or bio -based content by 2030. For example, we introduced bio-based Stanyl® PA46 and Arnitel® TPC 
and bio -based and  recycled -based Akulon®  PA6 grades . We also engaged with companies in our value chain to explore 
and further develop bio -based, chemical and mechanical recycling routes.  
In alignment with Apple ’s Clean Energy Program, we fully transitioned to  100% electric ity from renewable  resources  in the 
manufacture of our materials for  Apple products  at the beginning of 2020.  
DSM Protective Materials  
Highlights 2020  
-Personal protection  activities impacted by COVID -19, with delays in large orders by local authorities and governments
-Launch  of world’s first -ever bio -based UHM WPE fiber, bio -based Dyneema®
-Establishment of coalition  for the recycling of end -of-life Dyneema® -based products
About Protective Materials  
DSM Protective Materials is the world’s only global and backward -integrated producer of ultra -high molecular weight 
polyethylene (UHMWPE) products. Our UHMWPE premium product brand, Dyneema® , the world ’s strongest fiber™, is 15 
times stronger than steel on a weight -for-weight basis, 40% stronger than aramid, yet light enough to float on water. These 
characteristics make it suitable for a wide range of critical applications including personal protection, workwear, sports 
apparel, ou tdoor equipment, ropes and slings, synthetic chains, and nets for the aquaculture and renewable energy sector.  
Besides  Dyneema®, DSM Protective Materials consists of the brand TrosarTM, which is our  value offering for UHMWPE  fibers  
and unidirectional lamin ate (UD).  
Protective Materials  performance 
Volumes were down -9% in DSM Protective Materials, driven by Personal Protection.  Review of Business – Materials  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  108 Launch of bio -ba sed Dyneema®  
As part of our commitment to use at least 60% bio- based feedstock by 2030, we launched the world’s first bio -based 
UHMWPE fiber  in 2020. Bio-based Dyneema®  fiber offers exactly the same performance as conventional  Dyneema ®. 
Production of 1 metric ton bio -based Dyneema® generates 5 metric tons less CO 2eq compared to the same volume of 
fossil -based Dyneema®.  
Recycling end -of-life Dyneema® -based products  
Together with leading partners across several industries, we est ablished a coalition to address the recycling  of end -of-life 
Dyneema® -based products in 2020. The coalition will provide a platform to share knowledge, resources, and technological 
solutions with the aim to close the loop on the world’s strongest yarn.  
Launch of Trosar™  
In 2020, we launched Trosar™, our  value offering for UHMWPE fibers and uni -directional (UD) fabrics . Trosar™ is available 
in various performance grades as both fiber and unidirectional laminate (UD) mainly for marine applications. To ensure  a 
reliable supply of consistent high quality, Trosar™ is manufactured to uniformly stringent standards at DSM sites in the 
Netherlands , North America and China.  Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  109 Innovation 
At a glance  
-7 Innovation Growth Themes
-4.7% R& D expenditure as a % of sales (continuing operations)
-20% Innovation sales (continuing operations), in line with our ambition of ~20%
-~1,700 scientists1
-30 laboratories spread across 10 countries
-> 100 
scientific collaborations
About the Innovation  Cent er 
DSM’s Innovation Center supports the creation of opportunities for future earnings growth through cultivating purpose -led 
innovation  across DSM. At the Innovation Center, we accelerate the innovation power and speed of our core businesses 
through, for e xample, our Science & Technology, Innovation Business Building and IP & Licensing departments. Together 
we: 
-Ensure the quality  of our total scientific competence base, including monitoring and ensuring access to early -stage
technologies with disruptive pot ential through the Corporate Research Program
-Partner  to ensure access to the best technology and routes to market via R&D partnerships with leading
universities, public -private partnerships, and joint ventures with others in the value chain
-Experiment  in a holistic and structured way, learning with all possible innovation ‘vehicles’, such as internal R&D,
corporate venturing into start -ups, internal venture building, licensing and much more
-Drive the development of a business -anchored innovation pipeline  that supports our long -term growth ambitions;
this pipeline is built around seven overarching growth themes that capture major global societal, technological and
environmental trends, as set out in the strategy secti on
The Innovation Center also helps explore adjacent business opportunities  that are outside the current scope of the 
company’s business groups, through the Emerging Business Areas (EBAs).  
-DSM Biomedical
-DSM Bio -based Products & Services
-DSM Advanced Solar
Underpinning all of this is our unique  set of  scientific competences  that ensure we  are able to deliver on our ambitions. 
With chemistry - and biotechnology -based approaches, and serving the health, nutrition and sustainability needs of both 
people and animals, we generate compelling business synergies from much of our research. Our science and technology capabilities will remain our foundation for delivering business growth, and we will continue to develop our competences to meet specific unmet market needs.  
1 Non-financial data presented in ‘Innovation’ are subject to the non-financial reporting policy . Review of Business - Innovatio n 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  110 “We are building a business- anchored pipeline of innovation aligned 
with our future strategic needs that supports our growth ambitions 
and delivers meaningful impact on some of the major challenges 
faced by t he world .” 
Patricia Malarkey,  Chief Innovation Officer  and member of the DSM Executive Committee  
Accelerating  innovation  
Science & Technology  
A global, purpose -led leader in biosciences  
At DSM, we see science as an important means to transform  the sustainability of the global food supply,  address climate 
change, and overcome resource scarcity through  circular  solutions.  Building on 150 years of expertise, DSM  today  is a 
global , purpose- led leader in biosciences , developing a broad range of bio- based, sustainable solutions for  the food, feed,  
personal care,  pharma, nutrition, agriculture and materials  sectors. We are strongly committed to invest in  biosciences  as 
key pillar of our future gr owth. During  2020, we strengthened our global network of world -class R&D and innovations 
through the acquisitions of CSK, Glycom and Erber Group.  In November 2020, we announced the construction of  a state -of-
the-art Health & Nutrition Innovation Campus  in Kaiseraugst  (Switzerland ) to a ccelerat e innovation in the field of 
bioscience. This campus  will provide modern research laboratories and collaborative workplaces to maximize agile 
interaction  between our scientific competences and business units to further  boost our customer -centricity in the 
development of joint solution s. 
Our competences, science network  and collaborative approach  
Our toolbox of scientific competences  is grouped into multiple areas: analytical and data, biological, chemical, 
engineering,  macromolecular,  material, and nutritional sciences. These areas are key to our continued success. The Science 
& Technology department, led by our  Chief Technology Officer , works to ensure that we have the right combination of 
skills, capabilities and partners to deliver on our competences.  
We have more than 30  laboratories  spread across 10 countries, and our science network  comprises about 1,700 internal 
scientists, includ ing 14 professors and academic associates, distributed around the globe.  
These employees co -operate with more than 100 universities  and external R&D institutions  worldwide, both in public-
private partnerships and in academic collaborations such as with th e Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in the 
United States, East China University of Science and Technology in Shanghai, and Delft University of Technology in the 
Netherlands . 
Our collaborative approach increases our scientific scope and helps us make joint scientific contributions to address 
significant scientific and societal challenges. We participate in more than 200 academic networks, more than 50 industry networks, and more than 80 public -private partnerships (PPPs) relevant to our innovation growth themes
. 
Future proofing our R&D and innovation efforts  
We are known worldwide as an R&D and innovation powerhouse . To ensure this position and to create greater value for 
DSM and society at large, we have launched several improvement programs to future- proof our global R&D and innovation 
efforts.  
In 2020, w e continued to align our science with the changing needs of the market as well as with the increasing speed of 
technological and scientific advancements in the world. We have worked towards building a more agile R&D organization that can provide answers to today’s pressing questions with higher speed and precision . We improved our (digital) skillsets Review of Business - Innovatio n 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  111 and ways  of working, in practical as well as technologic al terms , and created more customer -centric science centers  with 
an increased focus on our  innovation growth themes , as described before.  
Above all, we have focused on creating an environment where our bright scientists  can thrive and focus on doing the right 
things faster and help realize our collective mission to help address some of the world’s biggest challenges.  
Digital transformation of our R&D capabilities  
Advanced digital technologies will become more and more critical for capturing new opportunities, and we continue to 
increase our investments in the digital transformation of our R&D capabilities. This includes making our collective organizational knowledge more easily available across the entire R&D organization, using 
artificial intelligence  (AI), big 
data, deep learning and modeling , as well as extending lab automation . These investments are accelerating our core 
processes, increasing our operational efficiency and improving the speed of our innovation processes and delivery.  For 
instance, in 2020 we  invest ed in establishing  the AI biosciences  research  lab ‘AI4B.io’ at  Delft  University of Technology 
(Netherlands) . This center will develop deep understanding of how artificial intelligence can improve the efficiency and 
effectiveness of developing bio -based products and production technologies.  
R&D expenditure (including associated IP expenditure)  
x € million  2020  2019 
Nutrition  234 218 
Materials  73 73 
Innovation Center  60 57 
Corporate Activities  11 13 
Total continuing operations  378 361 
Discontinued operations  60 55 
Total  438 416 
R&D expenditure as % of net sales (continuing operations)  4.7 4.5 
Staff employed in R&D activities  1,725 1,885  
The Bright Science Awards  
We also continue to recognize, reward and nurture  scientific talent  outside DSM . The Bright Science Awards reward 
excellence in PhD research in areas of particular interest to DSM ’s strategy . The program helps participants make the vital 
connection between scientific achievement and commercial and  industrial success — an increasingly important 
consideration.  
The S
cientific Advisory Board  
At DSM, we regularly connect with our international Scientific Advisory Board . Acting under the supervision of the Chief 
Technology Officer, this board provides valuable perspectives and insights, challenges and reviews our scientific work, and gives advice on trends and upcoming disruptive technologies. The Scientific Advisory Board comprises seven internationally recognized experts in the fields of materials, bio technology and nutrition, drawn from leading universities 
in the US and Europe.  Review of Business - Innovatio n 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  112 Scientific Advisory Board  
Member  Background  
Frank Bates (m)  Regents Professor of Chemical Engineering and Materials Science at the University of 
Minnesota (USA). His research involves the thermodynamics and dynamics of polymers and 
polymer mixtures. He has co -authored more than 475  publications and holds more than 25 
patents. Nationality: American.  
Thomas Hankemeier (m)  Professor of Analytical Biosciences at the Leiden Academic Centre for Drug Research at Leiden 
University. Medical Delta Professor of Translational Epidemiology at Erasmus MC, Rotterdam. Co-founder o f MIMETAS, the first organ -on-a-chip company. He has co -authored more than 
320 publications and holds over 10 patents. Nationality: German.  
Craig Hawker (m)  Director of the California NanoSystems Institute, Dow Materials Institute, Facility Director of 
the Materials Research Lab and Alan and Ruth Heeger Professor in Interdisciplinary Science at the University of California, Santa Barbara (USA). He has co- autho red over 60 0 scientific 
papers and holds more than 7 5 US patents. Nationality: Australian/American.  
Kirk Klasing (m)  Distinguished Professor of Animal Biology in the Department of Animal Science at the 
University of California, Davis (USA). He is an extensively published expert on poultry nutrition and immunology, with more than 250 peer -reviewed publications, 10 edited books and nine 
awards to his name for his work in animal biology. Nationality: American.  
Wolfgang Marquardt (m)  Chairman of the Boar d of Forschungszentrum Jülich (Germany), Vice -President of the 
Helmholtz Association, and Coordinator of the Research Field Key Technologies. He also co -
founded AixCAPE e.V., a technology transfer platform in the field of computer -aided process 
engineering , and its spin -off S-PACT GmbH. He has more than 350 ISI -listed publications. 
Nationality: German.  
Helene McNulty (f)  Director of the Nutrition Innovation Centre for Food and Health (NICHE), a center of 
excellence for nutrition research, and Professor of Human Nutrition and Dietetics, at Ulster  
(UK) University. She is an elected Member of the Royal Irish Academy (since 2008) and Fellow 
of the International Union of Nutritional Sciences (since 2017). Nationality: Irish.  
Chris Voigt (m)  D.I.C. Wang Professor of Advanced Biotechnology in the Department of Biological Engineering
at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (USA). He is the co -director of the Synthetic Biology
Center at MIT and the co -founder of the MIT-Broad Foundry. He is also Editor -in-Chief of ACS
Synthetic Biology. Nationality: American.
Internal and external venturing  
The Innovation Business Building team  creates and develops new business and innovation opportunities for DSM through 
(external) investments in startups across the g lobe, (internal) venture -building in DSM, and innovation partnerships with 
other corporate entities.  
External venturing   
In 2020, external venturing activities managed through the DSM Venturing organization  focused on investing, but also on 
supporting star t-up companies already in our  investment portfolio through the turbulent macroeconomic conditions. We 
made one new external venturing investment in 2020, 18 follow -on investments in 15 portfolio companies, and generated 
several collaboration leads between start -ups and businesses at DSM. By the end of the year, our portfolio included 35 
start-ups (2019: 35). For more information on DSM Venturing, see the company website . 
Internal venture-building In 2020 , the Innovation Business Building team  developed a way to 
build and scale innovative ventures  at speed by 
means of a venture -capital approach, dedicated  entrepreneurial  teams , simple startup -style board governance, and 
milestone -based funding rounds.  Review of Business - Innovatio n 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  113 As an example of this new approach, we incorporated DSM PPE Plus BV  in the second quarter of the year to coordinate our 
European materials initiatives in the fight against COVID -19. In September, DSM PPE Plus BV and VDL Group form ed a joint 
venture to manufacture and commercialize medical face mask s and personal protective equipment  filter materials . Initial 
production of the face masks began  in October 2020. The partners are investing in the construction of new manufacturing 
facilities for meltblown polypropylene, which are  expected to be fully operational in April 2021 . More information on this 
case study of accelerating innovation and collaboration can be found here. 
A second example is the creation of Hologram Sciences, Inc.  in Boston, which encompasses our activities in personal 
nutrition within the framework of our Human Nutrition & Health bus iness . 
Partnerships  
Our partnership with Syngenta  for the joint development of microbials for crop protection agents continued successfully 
in 20 20, with the discovery of several biofungicide leads for  major plant diseases.  
Our ‘proteins of the future ’ internal start -up, which established a joint venture with the French agro-industrial group Avril 
in June 2020 to produce the plant -based protein  CanolaPRO ™ at commercial scale,  was transferred to DSM Food 
Specialties . It will be brought to market a s part of DSM Food Specialties’ dairy and meat alternatives portfolio.  
IP & Licensing  
IP & Licensing is a global group of qualified IP professionals who protect DSM’s innovations  by securing patents and 
trademarks. This group also includes certified licensing professionals who offer expertise for intellectual property -
intensive deals across all DSM businesses, including joint development agreements, technology acquisitions and sales, and 
in-, out- and cross -licensing deals. DSM filed 260 patents in 2020 . This reflects our continued focus on innovation projects 
with higher potential for business impact.  
Innovation Center performance 2020  
Full year sales were in line with the previous year. DSM Biomedical delivered a solid performance even with the postponem ent of elective surgeries due to COVID -19. Full year Adjusted EBITDA was below the prior year with a solid 
performance of DSM Biomedical, which was offset by lower results in the backsheet business of DSM Advanced Solar.  
x € million  2020  2019 
Net sales from continuing operations  184 184 
Organic sales growth (in %, continuing operations)  1 13 
Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations  21 26 
Adjusted operating profit from continuing operations  (17) (12) 
Capital expenditure  35 30 
Capital employed at 31 December  436 599 
R&D expenditure  60 57 
Workforce at 31 December (headcount)  579 683 
DSM Biomedical  
DSM Biomedical is committed to solving some of our world’s key healthcare needs through sustainable science and is a 
trusted partner to the global medical device and pharmaceutical industry, enhancing the quality and delivery of healthcare through innovative and sustainable biomaterials . 
Our top innovations and partnerships in 2020  
A study regarding the Drug Eluting Coronary Stent from Svelte Medical, which contains our polyester -amide (PEA) -based 
drug delivery material, showed that treatment of blood vessel s with the Svelte stent had cut the need for reinterventions  
to the lowest reported rate in an Inv estigational Device Exemption (IDE) study . Typical reinterventions include angioplasty, 
another stent, or a surgical bypass . This device is saving lives.  Review of Business - Innovatio n 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  114 We delivered clinical material to support a regulatory approval application  to the US Food & Drug Adm inistration (FDA) de 
novo  510(k) on behalf of our customer Miach. The  Bridge -Enhanced® ACL Repair (BEAR®)  product is a bio -engineered 
bridging scaffold to facilitate healing of tears to the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL). It is hoped that this technology  will 
allow for improved recovery of the knee following damage to the ACL.  
In September  2020, we announced a partnership with Ireland -based PBC Biomed . This partnership will focus initially on 
the development of regenerative bone adhesives for safer, more cost -effective surgical procedures.  
Organizational adjustments  
Our organization  focuses on our  key strengths of sustainability and biomaterials. P roduction at  our site in Berkeley 
(California, USA)  was terminated during the fourth quarter of  2020 and the s ite is scheduled for closure in  April 2021. Th is 
reduction of our  manufacturing organization improved our cost structure.  The reorganization will enable us to concentrate 
our efforts on top markets  such as Orthopedics, Cardiovascular and Drug Delivery. We are also providing more support for 
international markets  by strengthening  our presence in Asia , where many countries are seeking to develop local medical 
device companies.  
DSM Bio -based Products &  Services 
DSM Bio -based Products & Services continues to license out its yeast and enzyme technologies for bio -ethanol globally.  
Together with our  joint venture partner POET , we decided to mothball the  second -generation bio -ethanol  plant in 
Emmetsburg (Iowa, USA ) (‘Project Liberty’)  in view of the prevailing market conditions for biofuels in 2020 . As a result, we  
recorded  an impairment of our investments in this joint venture (€85 million) in the second quarter . Additionally , in the 
fourth quarter , we recorded a €56 million impairment owing to an expected subdued market for biofuels.   
DSM Advanced Solar 
In September 2020, an agreement was reached to sell the coatings activities of DSM Advanced Solar  to Covestro AG  as 
part of the sale of DSM  Resins & Functional Materials and related businesses. In the fourth quarter, we recorded a write 
down of €56 million on our solar assets following the sale to Covestro.  
We received external recognition  from the Solar Impulse Foun dation  for our Endurance backsheet ’s sustainable 
character and from the renowned TÜV-SÜD institute for its durability . This was followed by the commercial launch of an 
‘all-purpose’  Endurance backsheet D15  in November 2020.   Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  115 Corporate Activities 
Any consolidated activities that are outside the three reporting clusters are reported as Corporate Activities. These 
comprise operating and service activities, as well as a number of costs that cannot be allocated to t he clusters. While this 
segment reports net sales to third parties from its service units, it normally has a negative operating result.  
Corporate Activities includes various holding companies, regional holdings and corporate overheads. The most significant  
cost elements are corporate departments and the share- based compensation for the company.  
Corporate Activities  
x € million  2020  2019 
Net sales from continuing operations  39 42 
Adjusted EBITDA  (97) (97) 
Adjusted operating profit  (141) (150)  
Capital expenditure  34 30 
R&D operating expenditure  11 13¹ 
Workforce at 31 December (headcount)  2,039  2,087  
1 The 2019 figure has been adjusted for comparative purposes  
DSM Insurances  
We retain a limited part of our material damage and business interruption and (product) liability risks via our captive insurance company. In 20 20, the total retained damages were € 1 million. 
Corporate Research  
The function of the Corporate Research Program (CRP) is to develop key Science & Technology competences. Falling under the responsibility of the Chief Technology Officer, the CRP typically funds competence development programs with a longer time horizon than those run by the business groups. It also focuses on competences that have a broader relevance for the 
company. The CRP additionally supports Science & Technology programs that are carried out with external parties and programs covering relevant new trends.  
Share -based payments  
Executives participate in the Long -Term Incentive (LTI) scheme. This links their compensation to the long -term interests of 
our company's stakeholders. It also provides a vehicle for the attraction and retention of suitable employees. As shares / share uni ts have become more prevalent in the market, we replaced stock options with shares / share units in 2017. This 
resulted in better alignment with the LTI vehicle already in place for the Managing Board and the Executive Committee. The use of shares / share units also targets yet closer alignment with the interests of our stakeholders. As a consequence of this switch, we have reduced our hedge obligations. For detailed information, see 
Note 27 of the Consolidate d financial 
statements . Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  116 Reporting policies  
Financial and reporting policies  
As a basis for, and contribution to, effective risk management and to ensure that we are able to pursue our strategies, even 
during periods of economic downturn, DSM aims to retain a strong b alance sheet and limit our financial risks.  
Our strategy  has ambitious targets, as outlined in Strategy . Within the context of this strategy, we aim to maintain a strong 
investment grade and a strong long- term credit rating.  
Most of our external funding needs are financed through long -term debt. Debt covenants are not included in the terms and 
conditions of outstanding bonds and financing arrangements. We aim to spread the maturity profile of outstanding bonds in order to have adequate financial flexibility.  
An important element of  our financial policy is the allocation of cash flow. We primarily allocate cash to investments aimed 
at strengthening our business positions and securing stable, and preferably rising, dividend payments to our shareholders. Remaining cash flow is used for  acquisitions, targeting investments predominantly in Nutrition and in line with our 
strategy. Share buy -backs will be considered in the absence of value- creating M&A opportunities.   
Dividends are paid out in cash or in the form of ordinary shares at the option of the shareholders, with a maximum of 40% of the total dividend amount available for stock dividend.  
In order to cover our commitments under the dividend policy and under management and employee option and share plans, we buy back shares insofar as this is necessary and feasible.  
We continuously monitor and assess risks arising from currency exposures. It is our policy to hedge 100% of the currency risks resulting from sales and purchases at the moment of recognition of trade receivables and payables . Additionally, we 
may opt to hedge currency risks from firm commitments and forecast transactions. The currencies giving rise to these risks are primarily the US Dollar, the Swiss Franc , the Brazilian Real  and the Chinese Renminbi.  
We acquire businesses and enter into partnerships that add value in terms of technological or market competences. In addition, these businesses and partnerships are required to contribute to our cash earnings per share, as well as our profitability, sustainability and growth req uirements. In the case of small innovative growth acquisitions, we consider their 
potential to contribute to these requirements in the future.  
Our policies in the finance function are strongly oriented toward solidity and reliability of reporting, as well as the protection of cash flows. The finance function plays also an important partner role  to the business and supports  business 
steering.  
For detailed information on our tax policies, see T axation at DSM on the company website
. Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  117 Non-financial reporting policy  
Reporting policy and justification of choices made  
In this Report, we report for the calendar year 2020 . The company reports on People, Planet and Profit information in such 
a Report on an  annual basis. The previous DSM Integrated Annual Report was published on  27 February 2020 . We publish 
our Report exclusively in a digital format . It is available as an online version  and as a pdf.  
In the Report by the Managing Board, we explain our vision  and policy with respect to sustainability practices and report 
on our activities in this field during  2020. In addition to disclosing data and developments in the categories of People, 
Planet and Profit, we also report on the global societal megatrends th at drive our strategy, sustainability governance 
framework, stakeholder engagement activities, and management approach on material topics. We proactively seek out the 
views of key stakeholders on issues of material importance to the company.  
Global Reporti ng Initiative  
At DSM, we base our sustainability reporting on international non -financial reporting guidelines. We frequently assess to 
what extent sustainability aspects become material to our company and our stakeholders. In the event that  specific 
indic ators become relevant to the company ’s sustainability performance, appropriate actions are taken that allow the 
necessary data to be collected so as to be able to disclose progress in the future.  
This Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Sta ndards: Comprehensive option. A detailed overview of how 
we report according to the GRI Standards comprehensive indicators, including a reference to relevant sections in this Report, is provided in the GRI Content Index  on the Integrated Annual Report website . 
UN Global Compact  
We have been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since 2007 and commit to annually report on progress in implementing The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact  in the areas of human rights, child and forced labor, the 
environment and anti -corruption. Th is Report is our Communication on Progress 20 20, submitted to the UN Global 
Compact Office. Our Code of Business Conduct, our Sustainability, Human Resources, and Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) policies, and our Supplier Sustainability Program are the foundations on which we apply the standards of the Global Compact.  
We have also aligned our strategy with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We are familiar with the opportunities and responsibilities that the SDGs represent for our business. Base d on our mapping, we believe that we contribute to all 
of them, and have chosen to focus on the goals which most closely align with our strategic ambitions. In this Report, we continue to include the SDGs into our reporting process, for example by mapping SDG reporting priorities in our value creation model, our material topics, and the solutions that we highlight.  
The Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures  
The recommendations from the Taskforce on Climate- related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) ar e a set of voluntary, climate -
related financial disclosures for use by companies to provide information to their stakeholders. We were among the first 
companies in 2017 to commit to implementing, as fully as practicable, these recommendations over the following three years as outlined in the TCFD ’s implementation path. This Report contains our TCFD -relevant disclosures on Governance, 
Strategy, Risk Management, and Metrics and Targets. For more information on how we report against the TCFD recommendations, see the Sustainability statements — TCFD
. 
Other reporting frameworks  
We are in favor of convergence in reporting standards and frameworks, moving to a single accepted no n-financial reporting 
standard. Currently we recognize and participate in a number of initiatives that are driving toward that goal. We report in accordance with the GRI Standards, we apply elements of the <IR> Framework, and we map our disclosures to other 
standards and frameworks to support our stakeholders who are using these. You can find how our disclosures map to the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board framework and the WEF IBC metrics and disclosures in the 
Sustainability 
statements . Reporting policies – Non-financial reporting policies  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  118 Integrated Reporting Framework  
We al
ign with the recommendations of the International Integrated Reporting Council <IR> Framework where possible. The 
intention of the <IR> Framework is to provide additional guiding principles and content elements for an integrated report. 
Aligning with the framework allows us to better identify and communicate how the company creates value for stakeholders in People,  Planet and Profit, as well as the interconnection between these three dimensions.  
Selection of topics  
The topics covered in this Report were selected on the basis of input from internal and external stakeholders and the related materiality analysis, which  assessed the relevance and impact of selected topics for our company and various 
stakeholders. On the basis of the principle of materiality (using the GRI Standards), we distinguish between topics whose importance warrants publication in this Report (relevant to both DSM and stakeholders), and topics whose importance warrants publication on the company website only (topics important to either DSM or stakeholders). We report on External recognitions in Stakeholders
. 
Scope  
The People and Brighter Living Solutions data in this Report cover all entities that belong to the scope of the Consolidated financial statements, provided that DSM also has operational c ontrol. As such, three small units have been excluded from 
the scope. Planet reporting covers manufacturing units where commercial production by DSM occurs.   
Acquisitions and divestments 
The People data for newly acquired companies are reported from the first full month after the acquisition date. The Safety, 
Health (People), Environment (Planet) and Brighter Living Solutions data for companies acquired in the first half of a given year (‘year x’)  are included in the reporting scope of the year after acquis ition (‘year x+1’) . Acquisitions in the second half of 
a given year ( ‘year y’ ) are included in the reporting scope of the year following the first full year after acquisition  (‘year y + 
2’). In the case of divestments, Planet and BLS data  are reported until the moment of divestment, and Safety, Health and 
People data until  the end of the month of divestment.  
Planet methodology  
Our progress on the key environmental performance indicators is re- evaluated annually. Data on these indicators are 
collected twice a year for all DSM sites. The data are based on these sites’ own measurements and calculations, which in 
turn are founded on definitions, methods and procedures established at corporate level. The site managers of reporting 
units are responsib le for the quality of the data. Data are collected using measurements and calculations in the production 
processes, information from external parties (e.g., on waste and external energy) and estimates based on expert knowledge.  
Reporting units have direct insight into their performance compared to previous years and are required to provide justifications for any deviations above the threshold. For most parameters, the threshold is set at 10%. The year -on-year 
comparability of the data can be affected by cha nges in our portfolio as well as by improvements to measurement and 
recording systems at the various sites. Whenever impact is relevant, this is stated in the Report. Details for the regions, a s 
well as the methodology and calculations, are published on th e company website
, together with an explanation of the 
definitions used.  
People methodology  
People data are collected per business group and consolidated at corporate level.  
Brighter Living Solutions  
For a definition of Brighter Living Solutions, see Explanation of some concepts and ratios . We report twice a year the 
percentage of Brighter Living Solutions within the running business portfolio. 
The Sustainability A ssessments to support the qualification for Brighter Living Solutions are required to be made by 
internal Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) experts and reviewed using the four -eyes principle with at least one internal, 
independent senior LCA consultant. The financial data are validated with the Corporate Sustainability department and consolidated as DSM Brighter Living Solutions KPI performance and reviewed by Group Control & Accounting.  Corporate governance and risk 
management 
Corporate governance 
Koninklijke DSM N.V. (Royal DSM) is a company limited by shares  listed on Euronext Amsterdam. It is managed by a 
Managing Board together with an Executive Committee and an independent Supervisory Board. Members of the Managing 
Board and the Supervisory Board are appointed (and, if necessary, dismissed) by the General Meeting of Shareholders.  
The company is governed by Dutch law  and by its Articles of Association , which can be consulted on the company website . 
The General Meeting of Shareholders decides on any amendment to the Articles of Association by an absolute majority of the votes cast. A decision to amend the Articles of Association may only be tak en at the proposal of the Managing Board, 
subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board.  
At DSM,  we fully  inform our stakeholders  about our corporate objectives, the way our company is managed, and our 
company ’s performance. In doing so, we aim to pursue an open dialogue with our shareholders and other stakeholders.  
Our company has an organizational structure  built around business groups that are empowered to perform all short - and 
long-term business functions. In this , they are assisted by support and corporate functions, as well as by regional 
organizations.  
Managing Board and Executive Committee 
The Executi ve Committee was installed to enable faster strategic alignment and operational execution by increasing our 
focus on the development of our business, innovation and people.  
The Executive Committee  comprises the Managing Board members as well as five  senior  executives with responsibility 
respectively for DSM Nutritional Products (Chris Goppelsroeder), DSM Food Specialties and Corporate Mergers  & 
Acquisitions (Philip Eykerman), the Materials cluster (Helen Mets as of 15 February 2020), the DSM Innovation Cent er 
(Patricia Malarkey), and Group People & Organization (Judith Wiese  until 1 September 2020 and as of 1 September 2020 
Cristina Monteiro ). The latter senior executives are appointed by the Co -CEOs after consultation with the Supervisory 
Board. The Executive Committee focuses on topics such as our company ’s overall strategy and direction, review of business 
results, functional and regional strategies, budget- setting, and people and organization. The statutory responsibilities of 
the Managing Board remain un changed.  
The Managing Board  is ultimately responsible for our company ’s strategy, portfolio management, the deployment of 
human capital and financial capital resources, the risk management system, financial performance, and performance in the area of sustainability. The Managing Board is thus also accountable to the Supervisory Board for our strategy and management. Notwithstanding that accountability, the full Executive Committee attends the Supervisory Board meetings.  
The Managing Board consists of two or  more members, to be determined by the Supervisory Board. The Managing Board  
currently consists of Co -CEOs Geraldine Matchett and Dimitri de Vreeze, more details can be found in Supervisory Board 
and Managing Board Royal DSM . Since the introduction of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code  in 2004, members of the 
Managing Board have been appointed for a period of four years.  
The members of the Managing Board are collectively responsible for the management of DSM . In addition to this collective 
responsibility, Managing Board members have ind ividual responsibility for certain tasks, business clusters, functional areas 
and regions. The distribution of these tasks is published on the company website . 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  119 Ro
yal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  120 Corporate governance and risk management – Corporate governance   
As of 15 F ebruary 2 0 20, F eike Sijbesma h anded o ver h is responsibilities a s  CEO of DS M t o Geraldine Matchett a n d D imitri d e 
V
reeze in a d ual leadership a s  Co-CEOs. 
The remuneration of M anaging B oard m embers i s  determined b y th e Supervisory Board b ased on t he re muneration p olicy 
approved b y th e General M eeting o f  Shareholders. Th e remuneration p o licy f or the Managing B o ard ca n be found o n th e 
c
ompany website. 
The functioning of a n d d ecision -m aking w ithin t he Managing B oard a nd the Executive Committee are governed b y th e 
Regulations of t he M an aging Board, w hich ar e in acc ordance w ith the Dutch C orporate G overnance C ode an d can be found  
on the company website. 
In 2020, the M anaging Boar d an d E xecutive Committee h ad 51 formal m e etings , due to th e COVID -19 restrictions most of 
these were h eld v irtually. No Managing B oard m ember had to b e excused f r om m eetings during t h e year. O n e Executive 
C
ommittee member w a s ex cused o nce on a cco unt o f an other co mmitment a nd in this ca se the Executive Committee 
member g ave advance input. T he Ex ecutive C ommittee an d Man aging Boar d  take t he time f or an e valuation at the e nd of 
every m eet ing t hey h ave. Th is evaluation ca n be about t opics t hat h a ve been d iscussed during t hat m eeting, b ut ma y also 
reflect o n meeting d y namics a nd in dividual o r collective performance. Once a year, t h e Executive Committee and M anaging 
Board t ake the time to get t o gether a nd discuss t heir p er formance as a t eam. 
Supervisory B oard 
The Supervisory Bo ard comprises a t least f i ve members. It s cur rent composition can b e found i n  Supervisory Boar d and 
Managing Boar d Royal D S M . Su pervisory B o ard m embers a re appointed for a pe r iod o f four ye ars, a fter w hich t hey ma y be 
reappointed fo r a further fo ur years. A S upervisory Board m ember m a y subsequently be r eappointed fo r  a pe riod o f two 
y
ears, an d this ap pointment m ay be extended b y at m os t t wo years. F or re appointments a fter an e ight-year p eriod, r easons 
must b e provided i n th e r eport of t he Su pervisory Boar d. 
All current m embers of t h e Supervisory Boar d are independent in a cco rdance with t he Dutch C orporate Governance Code. 
The remuneration of S upervisory B oard m em bers i s determined b y the General M eet ing o f Shareholders. Th e f unctioning 
of an d de cision -making w ithin t he Supervisory Boar d are governed b y the Re gulations of t he Supervisory Boar d, wh ich a re 
in acco rdance with t h e Dutch Corporate Governance Code and ca n be found o n the company we b site. 
The Supervisory B o ard s upervises t he policy pursued b y  the Managing Boar d, th e M anaging Boar d’s performance of i t s 
managerial d uties, and t he co mpany ’s general course of affairs , taking t he interests of all the company ’s stakeholders into 
account. W hen t he Executive C ommittee w as  established, t he Supervisory Boar d also took o n responsibility f or en suring 
that the checks an d balances that are p a rt of t he tw o-tier system a r e still g i ven d ue consideration, p aying s p ecific 
attention to the d ynamics b etween M anaging Board an d Ex ecutive C ommittee. T he Supervisory Boar d is en abled t o do so 
t
hrough t he information p rovided b y the M anaging Bo ard. 
The annual f i nancial s ta t ements a re ap proved b y the Su pervisory Boar d and th en s ubmitted t o the A nnual G eneral 
Meeting of S hareholders ( AGM) f or ad op tion, ac companied b y an e x planation f rom the S upervisory Boar d as to how i t 
carried o ut its su pervisory duties d uring the y e ar under review. 
In line with t he Dutch C o rporate Governance Code, t he Supervisory B oard h as es t ablished f rom a mong i t s m em bers a n 
A
udit Committ ee, a N omination C ommittee a nd a R emuneration C ommittee, b esides w hich th ere is also a S u stainability 
Committee. 
The task of t h ese committees is t o  prepare the decision -making o f the Supervisory B o ard. Th ese committees a re governed 
by ch arters d rawn u p in line with t he Dutch C orporate Governance Code. Th ey  can be found o n  the company website.  Ro
yal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  121 Corporate governance and risk management – Corporate governance  
Diversity 
At DSM, w e strongly v alue d i versity, an d we endeavor t o reflect t his in our Board m e mberships. T he Supervisory Boar d has 
f
ormulated diversity pol icies for t he Supervisory B o ard, t he Managing B oard a nd the Executive Committee. Th ese policies 
seek a b alanced composition of t h e respective body, t a king into a ccount g ender, a g e, knowledge, ex p erience, a nd 
nationality / c u ltural b ackground. I n add ition, f or th e c omposition of t he Supervisory Boa rd, the tenure structure is t a ken  
into consideration . 
In terms o f  gender diversity , we ai m for at l e ast 3 0% of t he positions i n our Su pervisory Boar d , M anaging Bo ar d and 
Executive Committe e to b e h eld b y wo men a nd at least 3 0 % b y men — p ercentages w hich r eflect D utch l egislation. T o  
ensure a b alanced co mposition i n terms o f  nationality / c ultural b ackground, our ai m is not to have m or e t han 5 0% of t he 
members of ou r Su pervisory Boar d or E xecutive C ommittee d rawn f rom a single nationality. W h ile a d iverse c omposition i n 
terms of n ationality / c ultural background i s also taken int o account i n  the composition of t he M anaging B oard, n o 
quantitative ta r get is s et here, g iven th e relatively s m all number o f Man aging B oard m e mbers. 
Our d i versity policies a re im plemented by applying t hem t o nominations f or (r e)appointments of S up ervis ory Boar d  and 
Managing Boar d me mbers as well as to appointments of Executive C ommittee m embers.  
At the 2 020 Annual General M eeting Rob R outs, a Dutch national, w as  reappointed as m ember of t he Supervisory Boar d on 
t
he basis o f hi s ex tensive international ex perience, h is kn owledge of t he (petro)chemical i ndustry, h is broad ex perience in 
the m anagement of c orporations an d  his qu alities as C hairman of D SM’s S upervisory Boa rd as d emonstrated d uring t he 
past t en ye ars of w h ich 9 years as C hairman. H e was re appointed for a final two -year t erm to facilitate a smooth transfer 
and c ontinuity t o the new Co -C EO leadership s tructure. Wi th th e reappointment of R ob Routs, t he Su pervisory Boar d 
m
aintains a strong p rofile i n th e areas of g en eral m anagement, strategy, risk, manufacturing & op erations a nd safety.  
Eileen K ennedy , an A merican national, w as re appointed as m ember of t he Supervisory Boar d on the basis of h er broad 
a
nd in -depth n utrition k nowledge an d her qualities as S upervisory Boar d member as d emonstrated d uring her past two 
periods as m ember of D SM’s Supervisory Bo ard. With the reappointmen t of Eileen K ennedy, t he Supervisory B o ard 
maintains a strong p r ofile i n  the ar e as of n utrition, R&D a nd sustainability.  
Pradeep P ant, a Singaporean national, w as  reappointed as m ember of t he Supervisory Boar d on t h e b asis of h i s e x tensive 
experience i n Fast M oving Consumer Goods a nd bringing products a n d services t o market a cross t erritories, i n particular in 
the Asi a-P acific region, h is deep u nderstanding of m ar ket d ynamics an d cu ltural d iversity, an d for his qualities as 
Supervisory Boar d member as d emonstrated d uring h is past first p eriod as m ember of D SM’s S u pervisory Boar d. Wi th t he 
reappointment of P r adeep P ant, t he Supervisory B oard m aintains i ts profile in t he fields o f  marketing & sales, emer ging 
economies a n d nutrition .  
Th
omas L eysen , a Belgian n ational, w as ap pointed on t he basis of h is br oad i nternational b usiness e xperience, an d 
especially h i s exp erience in l eading co m prehensive p ortfolio c hanges m aking b u sinesses m ore su stainable , his kno w ledge 
of technology -based businesses a nd hi s ex p erience in m anaging l arge corporations. With t he appointment o f Thomas 
Leysen , th e S upervisory Boar d further strengthens i t s profile i n th e areas of g en eral m anagement, s trategy and ris k, and 
s
trengthens i ts profile in t he areas o f  manufacturing & op erations , safety and R &D, innovation and t e chnology . 
Both ou r Supervisory Boar d and our Managing Boar d were well balanced in 2020 in t erms o f  gender in t he period until th e 
2020 A nnual General Meeting ( AGM) , comprising 5 0% a nd 33% w omen r espectively , and after th e AGM comprising 3 7% and 
5
0% respectively, which is i n line with Dutch legislation and with the c o mpany ’s ow n d iversity p olicy. Th e target for ge nder 
diversity levels within our Supervisory B oard a nd ou r E xecutive Committee exceeds our t arget f or  at least 3 0% of t hese 
positions t o be h eld b y women an d at l east 3 0% b y men. With th e  appointment of H e len Mets , as new EVP M aterials and 
Member o f  the Executive Committee, t h e percentage of w o men i n DSM’s Executive Committee is 5 7 %. Furthermore, t he 
composition of b oth ou r Supervisory Boar d and our Executive C ommittee ar e in line w i th o ur tar get of n ot having m ore 
t
han 50% o f  the m embers drawn  from a s i ngle nationality. Ro
yal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  122 Corporate governance and risk management – Corporate governance
Gener al Meeting of S hareholders 
The main p owers of th e General Meeting o f Shareholders r elate to : 
-The appointment, suspension and dismissal of members of the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board
-Approval of the remuneration policy of the Managing Board
-Approval of the remuneration of the Supervisory Board
-The adoption of the annual financial statements and declaration of dividends on ordinary shares
-Release from liability of the members of the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board
-Issuance of shares o r rights to shares, restriction or exclusion of pre -emptive rights of shareholders and repurchase
or cancellation of shares
-Amendments to the Articles of Association
-Decisions of the Managing Board that would entail a significant change to the identity or character of DSM or its
business
The Annual General Meeting (AGM)  is held within six months of the end of the financial year in order to discuss and, if 
applicable, adopt the  Integrated  Annual Report, the annual accounts, any appointments of members of the Managing 
Board and the Supervisory Board, and any of the other topics mentioned above.   
The AGM and, if necessary, other General Meetings of Shareholders are called by the Managing Board or the Supervisory Board. The 
agenda and explanatory notes  are publ ished on the company website . 
According to the Articles of Association , shareholders who, individually or jointly, represent at least 1% of the issued  
capital have the right to request the Managing Board or the Supervisory Board to put items on the agenda. Such requests need to be received in writing by the Chairman of the Managing Board or the Chair of the Supervisory Board at least 60 days before the date of the General Meeting of Shareholders.  
The AGM was held on 8 May 20 20. In view of the COVID -19 measures , the AGM was held virtually in compliance with the 
Temporary Act C OVID -19. Shareholders were given the opportunity to ask questions upfront . All questions were addressed 
during the AGM and posted as Q&As on the company website . The agenda was essentially similar to that of previous years. 
Additional topics were the remuneration  report 2019 for an advisory vote, the reappointment s to the Supervi sory Board of 
Rob Routs , Eileen Kennedy  and Pradeep Pant , as well as the appointment of Thomas Leysen . All topics were adopted by the 
Annual General Meeting of Shareholders.  
Control effectiveness and continuity assumption  
The Statements of the Managing Board  conform with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code best practice 1.4.3 on 'Board 
Statements'.  Corporate governance and risk management – Corporate governance   
Roy
al DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  123 At DSM, we visualize our control environment  as a ‘ house ’ that includes the internal control process areas with control 
measures related to strategic, operational, compliance and reporting risks. The elements of COSO (the Committee of 
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission) provide a framework  for identifying company activities that are 
carried out to ensure that the control environment is adequately structured. Finally, to make sure that full use is made of learning opportunities, monitoring activities include the sharing of findings and exper iences as well as the application of 
control measures across the supporting pillars.  
Our structure for managing risks  is based on a  three- lines  model  (see also Risk management ). Line management within 
the units acts as the first line. Group Risk management acts as  the second line together with other departments such as 
DSM Operations & Responsible Care , assessing the effectiveness of risk management and i nternal control at both unit and 
corporate level. Corporate Operational Audit (COA) acts as the third line. The scope and frequency of COA audits is determined by ranking the auditable units according to the scale of their risk exposure, using a set of def ined 
characteristics.  
COA assesses the operation of risk management framework  of the units by performing risk -based audits. These audits  
review the key processes and activities for the specific units. By means of these audits, COA closes the risk management 
cycle and provides additional assurance to the Managing Board as to the effectiveness of the design and operation of the risk management and internal control systems.  
COA reports its audit results  to the Managing Board and Executive Committee twice a year. COA also shares an overview 
with the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board and communicates the executive summary of each audit report to Geraldine Matchett in her capacity as CFO and Co -CEO and to Dimitri de Vreeze in his capacity as Co -CEO. 
In 2020, COA carried out 58 audits . Due to COVID -19 restrictions, most of the 2020 audits were executed remotely via video 
calls using Microsoft Teams. Trials were initiated for the use of smart glasses to be able to observe local situations in plants, l abs and offices.  In general, audit findings are considered opportunities for improvement as part of a healthy 
learning culture. In virtually all  of the audited areas (e.g., Operations, IT, Finance, Safety, Health & Environment  (SHE) , 
Quality, Commercial) the expected DSM standard was achieved. In the rare event of insufficient follow- up on a finding, the 
Director of COA escalated that finding to the Co -CEOs.  
Corporate governance and risk management  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  124 Dutch Corporate Governance Code  
DSM supports the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, which was most recently amended in 2016 and adopted by the 
company with effect from the financial year 2017. We ensure our continued compliance  with the Dutch Corporate 
Governance Code. The Dutch Corporate Governance Code can be found on www.mccg.nl . 
In line with the notion underlying t he Dutch Corporate Governance Code we follow a multi stakeholder approach . Our 
stakeholders are those groups and individuals who, directly or indirectly, influence — or are influenced by — the 
attainment of the company’s objectives. The Manag ing Board and Supervisory Board have the responsibility for 
weighing up the interests  of all stakeholders.  
Long-term value creation  is embedded in both our company ’s purpose- led, performance-driven strategy  and our company 
culture: Our purpose is to create brighter lives for all. Sustainability is central to how we fulfill that mission, and to ac hieve 
this, we co nsider People, Planet and Profit in all we do. We apply our company strategy  to drive our business and 
innovation strategies, which address key challenges in Nutrition & Health, Climate & Energy, and Resources & Circularity. 
More information on how long -term value creation is fundamental to our strategy and culture can be found in Strategy  and 
People , as well as in How we create value for our stakeholders and in Our approach to the Sustainable Development Goals . 
Any proposed substantial change  to our corporate governance structure and compliance with the Dutch Corporate 
Governance Code should be submitted to the General Meeting of Shareholders  for discussion under a separate agenda 
item.  
All documents related to the implementation of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code at DSM can be found in the Corporate Governance  section of the company website
. 
Governance framework  
Organizational & operating model  
Our business groups  are the main building -blocks of the company’s  organization. They have integral long -term and short -
term responsibility for business and have at their disposal all functions that are crucial to their business success. As the company’s  primary organizationa l and entrepreneurial building -blocks, our business groups focus on four primary 
business functions: Innovation and R&D, Direct Sourcing, Manufacturing & Operations, and Marketing & Sales. Intra -
company product supplies are contracted by the business group s on an arm ’s-length basis.  
The business groups are organized into clusters , thus ensuring coherence of operations and the leveraging of resources 
within each cluster. The clusters are the main organizational entities for external strategic and financial r eporting. This 
structure ensures flexibility, efficiency and speed of response to market changes. In order to ensure sufficient independence regarding financial management, the CFO has no business groups reporting to her.  
Our business groups receive services from global support functions and functional excellence departments and are supported by the regional organizations. This set -up enables us to create a 
global, high -performing organization  focused 
on meeting its targets and achieving its ambitions. The support functions and functional excellence departments are paid for their services by the users — the business groups and, to a lesser extent, other DSM units. Corporate departments are 
paid from a corporate budget.  
Support functions  provide those services that can be delivered more efficiently (in terms of total cost of ownership) by 
leveraging them across the company, thus capturing scale benefits and delivering higher quality at lower cost, rather than having them arranged in each business group separat ely. There are support functions in the areas of Finance, People & 
Organization, Legal, Indirect Sourcing, Communications and ICT. Each support function reports to a Managing Board member  or a member of the Executive Committee. Corporate governance and risk management – Governance framework  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  125 Within support functions, centers of expertise  provide specialist support, while shared service centers provide standard 
transactional support. Business partnering is the concept that acts as the interface between the business groups and the 
support functions. Business partners conse quently have a second reporting line in the business. In order to ensure that 
the functional policies sufficiently reflect regional requirements, the support functions work closely with the regional organizations and integrate their advice.  
Corporate funct ions (small, high -level groups) supporting the Managing Board and Executive Committee are also seen as 
support functions. The corporate departments are: Corporate Strategy & Acquisitions, Corporate Operational Audit, Corporate Risk Office , Corporate Sustainability, Corporate Investor Relations and Corporate Affairs.  
Functional excellence departments  are mandated by the Managing Board to help the businesses achieve excellence in 
their respective fields. They cover the areas of Operations & Responsible Care, Marketing & Sales and Science & Technology. Functional excellence departments support our businesses in improving their performance. They also provide guidance in setting aspiration levels and targets.  
Governance framework  
The following figure depicts our company’s  overall governance framework  and the most important governance elements 
and regulations at each level.  
The Managing Board and Executive Committee adhere to the Regulations  of the Managing Board.  In addition, DSM has a 
Management  Framework  in place which  implies, among other things, that the  units  adhere to the DSM Code of Business 
Conduct and applicable corporate policies and requiremen ts.  
The company’s  strategic direction and objectives are set by means of a Corporate Strategy Dialogue . In June 2018, DSM 
presented its updated purpose -led, performance- driven strategy , which is described in more detail in Strategy . 
The units  conduct their business within the boundaries  of the Management Framework . This implies, among other things, 
that they:  
-Comply with the DSM Code of Business Conduct, Corporate Requirements and Directives
-Establish the strategy, objectives and operatio nal targets of their business according to the Business Strategy
Dialogue, in alignment with the Corporate Strategy Dialogue, in which various scenarios and related risk profiles areinvestigated, and report on the achievement of these
-Implement a risk man agement framework, which includes taking accountability for the identified risks and related
mitigation through annually signing the Letter of Representation
-Implement  company -wide standards for support functions (systems, processes, vendors, etc.)
-Implement annual functional improvement plans
Corporate governance and risk management – Governance framework  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  126 Independent audits for all operational units are conducted by the Corporate Operational Audit (COA)  department. The 
Director of COA reports to the CFO and has access to the Chair of the Managing Board, the external auditor and the Audit 
Committee of the Supervisory Board. Furthermore, the Director of COA acts as the compliance officer regarding inside information and is also the secretary of the Disclosure Committee. The Director of COA additionally chairs the DSM Ale rt 
Committee, which is responsible for our whistleblower policy, systems and processes.  
Chaired by the CFO, the Disclosure Committee  ensures the timely and accurate disclosure of share- price- sensitive 
information related to the company and is responsible f or the implementation of company rules on the holding and 
execution of transactions in the company’s  financial instruments, among other things.  
A third committee at corporate level is the Fraud Committee , which was installed to ensure structural follow -up of fraud 
cases with the aim of reducing fraud exposure. Relevant corporate functions participate in the Fraud Committee, which is chaired by the Group Controller . 
Sustainability Governance Framework  
Managing Board  
Sustainability  falls under the responsibility of the Managing Board.  Specific actions in our climate action agenda  are 
owned by members of the Managing Board and Executive Committee.  In 2020, our Co -CEOs oversaw Sustainability as a key 
responsibility and company value  as well as a driver of business growth.  They jointly oversaw our strategic partnership 
with the World Economic Forum.  
In 20 20, our Co -CEO Dimitri de Vreeze was responsible for Safety, Health and Envir onment  (SHE) and supervised our 
Sustainable Procurement Program  and the sourcing of electricity from renewable sources in his responsibility for the 
Sourcing function. He managed  our engagement with organizations with a primary focus relating to climate . Within the 
climate action agenda, he was responsible for our product portfolio impact measurement  upgrade and climate advocacy  
efforts, and for reviewing our emissions reduction targets . He was also responsible for overall supervision of the full 
climate action agenda.  
Our Co -CEO Geraldine Matchett  oversaw our engagement with organizations with a primary focus relating to 
(mal)nutrition . She  was responsible for integrat ing Sustainability into financial decision -making . She also oversaw our 
efforts and commitment toward the Taskforce on  Climate -related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations and  
chaired the Inclusion & Diversity Council . Within the climate action agenda, she was responsible for integrating climate 
risks into our risk management process , TCFD, carbon pricing  and developing our engagement with climate -focused 
investors . 
Supervisory Board  
Our Supervisory Board has its own Sustainability Committee  to oversee progress against targets and to report on the 
embedding of s ustainability across the organization. For more details, see Supervisory Board Report . 
External Sustainability Advisory Board  
Comprising a  diverse international group of thought leaders, DSM ’s Sustainability Advisory Board  acts as a sparring 
partner for the Managing Board and senior executives, to help sharpen their focus on strategic issues, deepen their understanding of 
external stakeholder needs , conduct advocacy and handle dilemmas . In 2020, Feike Sijbesma, Honorary 
Chairman and former  CEO of Royal DSM , joined this board.   
The Sustainability Advisory Board  met once in 20 20 together with the Managing Board and a number of senior executives.  
Subjects addressed included business updates and  the impact of COVID -19, Building Back Better , strengthening our  long-
term  purpose- led, performance-driven strategy, and Nature & biodiversity. Due to the virtual nature of this meeting, this  
board was unable to include a site visit as part of the meeting . This board maintains a good balance of knowledge across 
our three F ocus Domains and a diverse composition in terms of gender and nationality.  Corporate governance and risk management – Governance framework  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  127 Sustainability Advisory Board  
Member  Background  
Robin Chase (f)  Co-founder and former CEO of Zipcar, co -founder of Veniam and the New Urban Mobility 
Alliance, Board member of the World Resources Institute and Tucows, and serves as an 
informal advisor to many cities, national governments, and transport agencies on the 
transition to shared automated vehicles. Nationality: American.  
Ertharin Cousin (f)  Distinguished Fellow with The Chicago Council on Global Affairs, visiting scholar at Stanford 
University and Board Member of both Bayer S.A. and Heifer International as well as Trustee on 
the Rwanda based AKADEMIYA2063  Board of Directors. She served as the twelfth Executive 
Director of the United Nations World Food Programme from 2012 to 2017 and the US 
Ambassador for Food and Agriculture. Nationality: American.  
Paul Gilding (m)  Social entrepreneur, author and corporate strategy advisor. Fellow at the Univ ersity of 
Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership (UK). Author of The Great Disruption  
(Bloomsbury, London, 2011). Executive director of Greenpeace International during the 1990s. 
Nationality: Australian.  
David King (m)  Professor Sir David King is Emeritus Professor of Chemistry, University of Cambridge; Founder 
and Chair of the Centre for Climate Repair in the University; an Affiliate Partner of SYSTEMIQ Limited; and Senior Strategy Adviser to the President of Rwanda; the Foreign Secretary’ s 
Special Representative on Climate Change 2013 –2017 . Nationality: British.  
Ndidi Nwuneli (f)  Social entrepreneur and Founder of LEAP Africa and Nourishing Africa, and co -founder of AACE 
Food Processing & Distribution Ltd. (AACE Foods), an indigenous agro -processing company in 
Nigeria. She is also the managing partner of Sahel Consulting Agriculture & Nutrition, which works across Africa, transforming the nutrition and agriculture landscapes, via innovative ecosystem solutions. Nationality: Nigerian.
 
Ye Qi (m)  Director of the Institute for Public Policy at Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, 
and Cheung Kong Professor of Environmental Policy at Tsinghua University in Beijing (China). Before joining Tsinghua, he taught at Beijing Normal University, and the University of California at Berkeley (California, USA). 
Nationality: American.  
Feike Sijbesma (m)  Honorary Chairman of Royal DSM since March 2020, and former  CEO between 2007 and 2020. 
In 2020, he acted as the Special Corona Envoy for t he Netherlands.  He is Vice Chairman of the 
Supervisory Board Royal Philips,  a non-executive Board member of Unilever and a member of 
the Supervisory Board of the Dutch Central Bank (DNB). He co -chairs the Global Centre for 
Adaptation together with Ban Ki Moon and acts as an advocate and leader for business tackling climate change as C hair of the WEF Climate Leaders and his membership of the Board of 
Trustees of the WEF. Feike also  contributes to the expansion of Africa Improved Foods.  
Nationality: Dutch  
Global network  
Sustainability Leadership Team  
At corporate level, sustainability is steered by our Sustainability Leadership Team , a group of senior executives 
representing the business groups and contributing corporate functions, which is chaired by the Vice President Sustainability. He leads the Corporate Sustainability department and reports directly to the Co-CEOs. The Corporate 
Sustainability staff function s as a business-orien ted 
center of excellence  and partner on sustainability, internally and 
externally.  
The Sustainability Leadership Team meets quarterly to monitor the progress of sustainability across the company, with particular emphasis on steering our 
business and innovation portfolio  in relation to key drivers. Regional operational 
sustainability networks  are in place in China, India, Latin America and North America.  Corporate governance and risk management – Governance framework  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  128 Operations & Responsible Care  
DSM Operations & Responsible Care has responsibility for all corporat e issues related to Safety, Health and Environment 
(SHE). This also includes ( cyber)security . The Senior Vice President DSM Operations & Responsible Care reports directly to 
the Managing Board. SHE managers provide support at business group level. Our SHE Council, which includes all business 
group SHE managers, is instrumental in sharing experiences and developing best practices and communications on SHE issues.  
Taskforce on Climate -related Financial Disclosures  
In her capacity as  CFO, Ms. Matchett has appo inted a finance executive to lead a  team  addressing the recommendations of 
the Taskforce on Climate -related Financial Disclosures  (TCFD). Th is team , comprising representatives from Finance, Risk 
Management, S ustainability, and I nvestor Relations, works wit h functions such as S trategy, Operations and P rocurement, to 
define what is needed to meet our TCFD commitments. The team  convened in 20 20 to work on physical risk assessments , 
and design and pilot an approach for transition risk assessments , as well as continuing to integrate  climate -related risks  
into the risk management process. For more information, see Sustainability statements — TCFD . Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  129 DSM Code of Business Conduct  
Introduction  
The DSM Code of Business Conduct ( ‘the Code ’) serves as an umbrella for several other DSM regulations and forms the 
basis for our company ’s ethical business behavior . Our purpose, our culture and our business principles are an integral 
part of the Code. The business principles translate our purpose into important do's and don ’ts to guide our business 
operation s and decisions in daily practice. All DSM employees are expected to follow the Code, which is available in seven 
languages. The full text of the Code also appears on the company website . The Managing Board holds DSM ’s unit 
management accountable for compliance.  
DSM Code of Business Conduct and values training program  
Training and awareness  
The DSM values training program  contains several e-learning courses to explain the Code and a number of its business 
principles in more detail. These courses are aimed at raising awareness for ethical business behavior and are assigned to 
all employees or, for certain subject matter, to specific target audiences. All courses are available in at least six languages, unless indicated otherwise. When we acquire a business, integration and compliance plans are rolled out to make sure 
new employees are trained.  
A review team , chaired by the Vice Presid ent Risk Management  & Internal Control , monitors the internal and external 
developments around corporate ethics to promote and safeguard the company ’s values and reputation. The review team 
also monitors implementation of the DSM values training program (s ee table Implementation of the DSM values ). At year -
end, most employees had completed or refreshed their training (excluding employees of some recently acquired businesses). Our learning management system also has an external portal to enable relevant contractors and other third 
parties to follow courses of the DSM values training program.  
The DSM values training program covers the three dimensions of People, Planet and Profit . An overview of the courses 
and the ch anges in 20 20 is listed below , as well as a number of important implementation measures.  
People  
The Life Saving Rules  specify the 12 most important rules that must be followed by all our employees to prevent incidents. 
In the latest revision of the Life Sa ving Rules  in 2019 , improved standards for warehouse safety and hot work have been 
included.  
Corporate governance and risk management – DSM Code of Business Conduct  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  130 The Respectful Behavior e-learning  emphasizes the importance of diversity and inclusiveness, and promotes respectful 
behavior as well as active bystander behavior to foster effective employee relations, communications, and non -
discriminatory practices.  
The DSM Binding Corporate Rules for D ata Privacy  prescribe mandatory data privacy training for employees who regularly 
work with personal data from employees and business partners. This is provided by the new General Data Protection 
Regulation (GDPR) overview e -learning, which has replaced the Data Privacy Knowledge course. The new training is rolled 
out to a large target audience including all employees working in the functions People & Organization , Marketing & Sales 
and Purchasing . In addition to this, concise e -learnings are in place to train all our employees on the consequences of the 
GDPR and the importance of prompt data breach notification . 
Planet  
The Basic Course Responsible Care  addresses the elements of the Responsible Care Program : Safety, Health, and 
Environment; Product s tewardsh ip; Security; and Sustainability.  
Profit  
The e-learning course Global Competition Law Principles and Practices  addresses the main principles of anti -trust 
legislation  and the relevant employees confirm their compliance with the rules via a Competition Law Compliance 
Statement. In this statement, they confirm that they are not aware of any violation of competition laws by DSM. For a 
smaller group of employees mandatory Competition Law classroom trainings on specific topics are organized. Alleged breaches , if any, are reported to, and discussed with, Group Legal Affairs. In 2020 , no breaches were reported.  
The course for Global Trade Controls  (available in English) explains the most important aspects of international trade 
legislation. Compliance with trade controls is embedded in our systems and processes. Company master data is screened to check customers and suppliers against embargoes and lists of sanctioned parties.  
The Anti-Bribery & Corruption  (ABC) e -learning provides training on the most important feat ures of bribery and corrupt 
behavior. In addition, the DSM ABC Policy and Compliance Manual (available in English and Chinese) is shared with selected employees in commercial and business roles, who must also follow ABC classroom training (integrated into the Competition Law classroom program.  
The DSM Security  e-learning covers our seven Key Security Behaviors. To complete this e- learning, employees are required 
to read and sign off on the DSM Code of Conduct for Information Security. The Cyber Fraud Awaren ess e -learning is an 
additional training to increase awareness among all employees regarding prevalent types of cybercrime. Furthermore, global as well as targeted phishing tests are regularly carried out to ensure that our people stay alert.  
We also have rules to prevent misuse of inside information  on the holding of or trading in DSM financial instruments, such 
as shares and other securities, and where applicable the holding of or trading in financial instruments of other companies. These rules apply to all relevant employees, including the Executive Committee, the Managing Board, and the Supervisory Board.  
Value chain  
The business principles most relevant to our supply chain are brought together in the Supplier Code of Conduct  and are 
also structured along the three dimensions of People, Planet and Profit. The Supplier Code of Conduct, available on the 
company website , is signed off by suppliers in  framework contracts, confirming their commitment to sustainability, among 
other things.  
For our distributor and agent framework contracts, the ABC Policy  is translated into terms and conditions to ensure ethical 
business conduct when these parties act on behalf of DSM or deal with DSM products further down the value chain.  Corporate governance and risk management – DSM Code of Business Conduct  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  131 Consequence management  
We apply zero -tolerance consequence management to violations of the Code. Under our whistleblower procedure  (DSM 
Alert ), most (potential) violations are reported to and dealt with by local line management. Where this is not considered 
appropriate, complaints can  directly be made to th e DSM Alert Officer . In both cases, consequence management practices 
(such as official warning, temporary suspension, dismissal) are in place for substantiated violations to support compliance 
with the Code. The DSM Alert Officer reports to the Managing Bo ard and also reports independently to the Audit Committee 
of the Supervisory Board twice a year. Any individual not employed by DSM who might wish to voice a concern regarding 
violations of the Code may also contact the DSM Alert Officer via the company website . 
In 20 20, 22 Alert cases  (reports of potential violations of the Code) were received by the DSM Alert Officer, two of which 
were reported by an external par ty. This is at a level comparable with previous years. Three of these were potential bribery 
and corruption cases. After investigation, one of the se three Alert case s was substantiated and consequence management 
was applied.  
The table below  gives an overview of all reported substantiated violations of the Code  (including Alert cases), with a 
breakdown by Triple P dimension and region. Proven violations result in dismissal or other forms of consequence management. In line with this policy, 37  employees were dismissed in 20 20 because of breaches of the Code, legal or local 
company regulations. In addition, 121 employees received another form of consequence management (official warning or 
suspension). Over the years, the number of dismissal case s has remained about the same . There has been  an increase in 
the reporting of other kinds of consequence management cases, which may be attributable to increased awareness of the 
importance to the company of reporting these types of cases.  
People  
Most of the cases in the People dimension  relate to violations of the Life Saving Rules. Inappropriate or disrespectful 
behavior that does not contribute to a psychologically safe and healthy working environment (discrimination, sexual and 
other kinds of harassment) is also reported in this dimension. Health and safety are priorities for the company and incident -reporting channels a re well known.  
Planet  
There were five violations of the Code reported in the Planet dimension  in 20 20 due to irresponsible behavior on the part 
of an employee , of which two  led to a minor environmental incident  or product loss , three did not.  
Profit  
Most o f the cases in the Profit dimension  relate to fraudulent expense claims and incorrect registration of working hours.  Corporate governance and risk management – DSM Code of Business Conduct  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  132 Implementation of the DSM values  
2020  2019 
Training and awareness e -learning: % of targeted employees trained  
General  
Code of Business Conduct  95% 94% 
People  
Life Saving Rules  98% 95% 
Respectful Behavior (as of Q4 2019)  96% - 
GDPR overview (as of Q2 -2020)  95% -  
Planet  
Basic Course Responsible Care  97% 97% 
Profit  
Global Trade Controls  95% 95% 
Anti-Bribery & Corruption  94%  '96% 
Security  96% 97% 
Cyber Fraud Awareness  98% 96%  
Competition Law:  % of targeted employees having signed  
DSM Annual Competition Law Compliance Statement  100%  100%   
Violations of the Code:  158 161 
Number of dismissals / other consequence management  
Triple P breakdown  
People  29 / 102  27 / 104  
Planet  0 / 5  1 / 2 
Profit  8 / 14  14 / 13  
Regional breakdown  
Europe & Africa  13 / 52  13 / 53  
Americas  20 / 55  22 / 61  
Asia–Pacific  4 / 14  7 / 5 
Total  37 / 121  42 / 119   
Alert cases (whistleblower procedure):  22 26 
Number substantiated / not substantiated / under investigation  
Triple P breakdown  
People  7 / 7 / 2  6 / 14 / 1  
Planet  1 / 0 / 0  0 / 0 / 0  
Profit  1 / 2 / 2  2 / 2 / 1  
Regional breakdown  
Europe & Africa  1 / 3 / 2  1 / 5 / 0  
Americas  5 / 3 / 0  5 / 6 / 0  
Asia–Pacific  3 / 3 / 2  2 / 5 / 2  
Total  9 / 9 / 4  8 / 16 / 21 
1 The two Alert cases 'under investigation' in 2019 were resolved in 2020: one was substantiated, one was not substantiated . Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  133 Risk management 
DSM risk management framework 
A well -embedded risk management framework  and accompanying organization are in place. Th e framework is based on 
COSO Enterprise Risk Management  and this section  is structured accordingly (see DSM Risk Management C ycle below ). 
Governance and culture  
Risk management responsibilities  
The Managing Board  is accountable for the management of all risks associated with our company ’s strategy and business 
objectives . To this end  an appropriate risk management system  is in place.  
It is the responsibility of the business groups, support functions, functional excellence departments and regions within 
DSM (the units) to set up, operate, maintain and monitor an appropriate risk management system within their area of responsibility.  
We apply elements of the Three  Lines Model to manage risks effectively.  
First line:  the responsibility for identifying , assessing  and managing risks , including control  execution , lies with the 
individual units . 
Second line:  Group Risk Management  (GRM) designs, implements and maintains the overall risk management framework 
for the company. GRM also supports the first line in risk identification , assessment  and management by designing and 
developing standards, systems and tools. Within GRM there is an independent department testing the effectiveness of the Internal Control Framework.  
Corporate Governance and risk ma nagement – Risk management  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  134 Besides GRM, there are also other departments acting as a second line, for instance, DSM Operations & Responsible Care 
co
vering Manufacturing, Supply Chain, SHE and Security . 
Third line : Corporate Operational Audit ( COA) conducts independent operational au dits on all units on behalf of the 
Managing Board . 
GRM and COA report directly to the CFO/ Co-CEO, and COA has direct access to the COO/ Co-CEO as well as to the Audit 
Committee of the Supervisory Board.  
Code of Business Conduct  
The Code of Business Conduct  comprises o ur purpose, our culture,  and our business principles which form the basis for 
risk management . Our culture is  directly related to our purpose of creating brighter lives for all. All our employees receive 
regular training on the Code of Business Conduct  and on detailed aspects of relevant  business principles. 
Strategy and objective -setting  
The M anaging Board supported by the Executive Committee establish es the company  strategy  and business objectives.  
Risk appetite 
The risk appetite defines the level of  risk the company is prepared  to take in the different risk categories, being 
generic/strategic, operational, financial & reporting and legal & compliance. The risk appetite supports priority setting  in 
risk responses. T he Executive Committee decides on the risk appetite, which is rev iewed annually. In 20 20, our risk appetite 
did not change compared to 2019 (see figure below).  
DSM’s risk appetite  
Cor
porate Requirements  
The Corporate Requirements  are our internal rules and regulations, which are defined and maintained by the support 
functions and GRM. In line with the Code of Business Conduct and the risk appetite, the C orporate Requirements provide:  
-Risk-based guidance  for managing common business and process risks ( ‘common controls for common risks ’)
-Standards and practices  to increase the efficiency of our main business processes and functions
The Cor
porate Requirements are mandatory for all units, and management is responsible to implement these as  and when 
applicable. 
Corporate Governance and risk ma nagement – Risk management  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  135 Performance  
Risk management  is designed to create and preserv e value . Important elements are identifying, assessing and responding 
to risks that may impact the achievement of our company strategy and business objectives a nd the execution of control 
activities . This part of the risk management framework focuses on practices that support the organization in making 
decisions.  
Risk identification, assessments and response  
Risk assessments  are performed  at various levels in the organization. We take a standard but flexible approach to risk 
assessments:  
-Risk assessment planning
-Preparation
-Risk identifica tion and clustering
-Risk rating
-Evaluation and risk response
Both
 short -term risks (up to and including three years) and emerging risks (3 –30 years) in the risk categories 
generic/strategic, operational, financial & reporting, and legal & compliance are t he focus of our risk assessments. A Risk 
Assessment Manual  and training is available  to give guidance and continuously improve the effectiveness of our risk 
assessment process. 
Corporate Risk Assessment  
We periodically conduct a Corporate Risk Assessment  (CRA), which is the responsibility of the M anaging Board. As part of 
this assessment, the Executive Committee  reviews and agrees on the short -term top risks as well as emerging risks. The 
Executive Committee  also agrees on how to mitigate and mo nitor these.  
Unit Risk Assessments  
The DSM units conduct various types of risk assessments:  
-Business Risk Assessments  focus on risks that could jeopardize the attainment of our strategic goals and business
objectives
-Process Risk Assessments  are intended t o make our processes more robust and fraud -proof
-Project Risk Assessments focus on specific projects and are updated throughout project execution to secure
successful delivery of project objectives and value creation for the company
In addition to the abo ve, specific risk assessments  may be performed for areas such as Safety, Health, Environment, 
Climate  and (Cyber) security.  
Most risk assessments are carried out by cross- functional teams . These teams include experienced facilitators as well as 
experts , who can challenge assumptions in order to help improve the quality of these risk assessments.  
Control activities 
Within the business processes , control s are executed at all levels in the units by the first line . They are preventive or 
detective and may encompass a range of manual and (semi -)automated controls such as policies, procedures, 
authorizations, verifications and business performance reviews. We apply a standard approach for user access 
management , incl uding privileged users, as well as Segregation of Duties  (SoD) management. These controls also help us 
to avoid fraud and reputational damage , and support the S tatements of the Managing Board.  
The Internal Control Framework  (ICF) aims to ensure  reliable fi nancial reporting , mitigate fraud risks and safeguard our 
assets. It defines the standard set of key controls  that must  be performed by the first line. The internal control department 
within GRM owns the ICF.  Corporate Governance and risk ma nagement – Risk management  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  136 Review and revision  
Internal Control review  
The testing of the effectiveness  of the key controls as included in our Internal Control Framework (ICF) is performed by 
the internal control department within GRM. This is one of the pillars of our  House of Control  supporting the Statements of 
the M anaging Board.  
COA audits  
COA, as the third line, conducts independent operational audits  based on the mandatory guidance of ‘The Institute of 
Internal Audit ors’ to provide additional assurance  to the M anaging B oard that signif icant risks are being managed and 
controlled effectively, efficiently and sustainably . Some of these audits are unannounced. The scope and frequency of COA 
audits is set according to the ranking of the auditable units in terms of the magnitude of risk, based on a limited number 
of defined characteristics. This program is agreed by the E xecutive Committee  and the Audit Committee of the Supervisory 
Board.  
Enhancement of the risk management system  
During 20 20, the following main improvements  were made to our risk management framework . 
Climate Risk Assessments  
To improve our understanding of the physical risks related to climate change , we conducted an initial mapping of the risk 
exposure of our top 30 sites . The assessment was based on three different scenarios, two  time horizons (2030/2050) and 
for five hazards (flooding, water scarcity, cyclones, temperature increase, wildfires). F urther a nalysis is ongoing to validate 
this initial mapping, to define the required management approach for these risks, and to define the approach for assessing 
similar risks in our value chains.  
An approach was defined for assessing the climate risks coming from  the transition to a low -carbon economy . The first 
pilot is underway using three scenarios, aligned with the ones used for the physical risk assessments.  
Other improvements  
In 2020 , a dedicated and specialized internal control department  was established within GRM , which provides 
independent assurance of the effectiveness of the key controls as included in the ICF . 
The governance, tools and processes to manage S oD conflicts  were strengthened . 
Establishment of the Cyber security Governance Board  that keeps o versight of the cybersecurity risks and  controls in the 
IT, Operations Technology, and R&D domain s. 
Our Corporate Requirements  have been updated in order to:  
-Standardize identity verification and access authorization to our sites
-Standardize measures to reduce cyber security  risks for our operations
-Streamline our ways of working when dealing with personal data
Information , communication  and reporting  
Communication channels  
We strive for an open communication culture  and have various channels f or communicating risk information  both 
internally and externally. These channels enable our organization to provide relevant information for decision  making. Corporate Governance and risk ma nagement – Risk management  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  137 Discussions of risks are integrated into normal business discussions, as these are an intrinsic part of doing business. 
Ho
wever, certain specific structures are in place to ensure that specific risks get sufficient attention:  
-Global Fraud Committee
-Global Issue Committee
-Cyber security Governance Board
-Ethic s Board  for P eople Data
-Privacy Council
-Alert Committee ( Whistleblower policy)
-Values Training R eview Team
-Value Assurance Reviews
-Risk Management Committees in the different units
-Dedicated discus sions with the Executive Committee  on the Corporate Risk Assessment and the outcome of the
Letter of Representation  process
Letter of representation  
The Letter of Representation  (LoR) is a biannual process whereby DSM’s units provide a comprehensive overview of 
incidents and risks to the Managing Board.  The units report their identified  short -term and emerging risks  according to 
four categories: generic & strategic; operational; financial & reporting; and legal & compliance. Th e LoR also documents the 
mitigation actions  defined in respect of these risks. A formal sign -off by each unit director is required. The output of the 
LoR process is discussed in the Executive Committee as well as the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Boar d. The 
material incidents  are reported in the section What still went wrong in 2020 . 
Top and emerging risks  
The output of the Corporate Risk Assessment  process — being top risks and emerging risks — is discussed in t he Audit 
Committee  of the Supervisory Board  and reported below . 
Our risk profile  
The risk management activities as performed by the first line as well as the reviews/audits conducted by the second and third line in 20 20 did not indicate any material failings in the design and effectiveness of our risk management and internal 
control system . This is the basis for the  Statements of the Managing Board
 and for the risk disclosures below.  
Top risks  and related mitigating actions  
Below the four most important risks  are given that might prevent us from achieving the targets defined in o ur strategy, 
along with the mitigating actions that we are taking to further reduce our exposure. These risks are labeled as t op risks as 
the exposure on DSM ’s EBITDA is an indicative €30 million  or more, or because they have a major non -financial impact 
such as on reputation.  
People, organization and culture  
There is a risk that we might not be able to attract, retain and develop the workforce  required to deliver on our strategy, to 
deliver above -market growth and retain strong operational efficiency. To address this risk, d ifferent initiatives were 
deployed to support our employees working remotely in an effective way, to maintain high levels of engagement, and to continue people development usin g digital tools. Our new Inclusion & Diversit y strateg y
 was launched with a scope beyond 
gender and internationalization, to build a more inclusive environment for people to contribute  to their full potential . Our 
new Culture Compass  was introduced as a navigational tool to support our purpose -led, performance- driven strategy. 
Further advancement of our organization, people and culture remains a key focus area,  to ensure that we are able to 
deliver on our strategy in a rapidl y changing world.  
Further mitigations : Our new People & Organization strategy  defines our key priorities for the next period, including  
creating a floti lla-style organization, creating a contemporary workplace, driving people empowerment, rolling  out the 
‘Leading through Culture’ program to people managers , and implementing a framework for modern, flexible rewards.  Corporate Governance and risk ma nagement – Risk management  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  138 Purpose -d riven growth  
There is a risk that we might not be able to deliver  on our organic growth targets , as key drivers behind  our projected 
growth are our innovation projects as well as commercial synergies from recent acquisitions. To address this risk, 
immediate focus was placed on the integration of our three biggest, recent acquisitions (Royal CSK, Glycom and Erber Group) . These are each at a different stage of progress. The integration approaches were tuned to fit the specific needs of 
each business. Several Important innovation projects progressed well in 2020, such as Veramaris® algal -based omega -3,  
Bovaer® methane inhibitor solution, fermentative Stevia, CanolaPRO
TM plant -based proteins, and the introduction of bio -
based material grades for Dyneema® , Stanyl® PA46, and Arnitel® TPC. Despite the progress made so far and having 
processes in place to manage and monitor further progress of innovation projects on a timely basis, time -to-market and 
delivering peak sales remain a risk.  
Further mitigations : We are adapting our innovation approach from project -based to platform -based. Growth platforms 
are linked to major global societal, technological and environmental trends and are closely connected with our current businesses. Each platform will have a clear pipe line of projects in different stages of maturity , and sales growth will be less 
dependent on the success of individual large projects.  
Market environment and competitive position  
There is a risk that we might not meet our strategic targets  due to increasing competition, especially from low -cost/margin 
players. To address this risk and increase our ability to understand changing end -market needs and to serve our customers 
better, programs were launched in 2020 in different parts of the company, such as ‘ Fit for Growth ’ in the Nutrition cluster 
and ‘ Agility to Grow ’ in the Materials cluster. These programs also simplified our organizations, improving our cost base. In 
2020, our teams adapted their way of connecting to customers, driven by the travel restrictions. The extra efforts to engage 
in new, digita lly enabled ways were well received by our customers, resulting in an all -time high Net Promotor Score. 
Nonetheless, the risk remains of facing increased competition for some product -market combinations.  
Further mitigations : To distinguish ourselves from our competitors , we continue to invest in our product and service 
portfolio to address customer needs such as the demand for bio- based and recyclable materials , and we enable customers 
to develop solutions with a more sustainable footprint.  
Operating in a digital world  
In an increasingly digital world,  DSM is subject to cybersecurity attacks  which , if successful, could lead to  a loss of 
Intellectual Property, discontinuity of operations, or otherwise have a negative impact on the company . To address this 
risk, we continued throughout 2020 to implement our multi -year cybersecurity program that covers the domains of 
information t echnology, operations technology, and R&D laboratory systems. A global Cyber security Governance Board was 
established to ensure a global, cross -functional approach to cyber risks and related risk responses. Phishing tests, both 
global and targeted, were frequently executed. To increase awareness on cybersecurity risks and controls , a DSM Global 
Cyber security Week was held with a series of webinars for all employees as well as a number of focus sessions for specific 
target groups.  
Driven by our strategy, bo th the number and the importance of digital initiatives is increasing. In combination with the 
unusual circumstances created by the COVID -19 pandemic and cyber  threats  becom ing more sophisticated, the cyber risk 
remains , despite the progress made in this a rea. 
Further mitigations : The implementation of our multi -year cybersecurity program  will continue in 2021 . In parallel, we will 
be updating our maturity assessment such that we can adjust our priority setting in line with changes in our cyber risk profile . Corporate Governance and risk ma nagement – Risk management  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  139 Emerging risks  
The following emerging risks  have been identified by the Executive Committee. 
-Our Nutrition and Materials markets may be disrupted by non -climate related longer -term changes in the value
chain or end -markets, such as new business models, industry consolidations or changes in end -consumer behavior
-We may not be able to respond fast enough to the physical impacts of  climate change on our operations, value
chain s and end -markets  (climate physical risks)
-We may not be able to respond fast enough to the changes related to the transition to a net -zero world and the
impact these will have on our operations, value chain and end -markets  (climate transition risks)
-Risk of increasing polarization in the world. This could lead to new legislation and new regulations that have  a
negative impact for our company  (such as increasing taxation, trade barriers, sanctions and embargoes, and labor
costs)
Where relevant, actions have been defined  to anticipate on emerging risks  in a timely manner , like in the Climate Action 
Agenda. On the other hand, some of the emerging risks also offer new opportunities for our Brighter Living Solutions.  
COVID -19 related risks  
In 2020 we responded swiftly to the impacts of the pandemic . We ensured that people were safe, we kept our supply 
chains and operations running, and continued to serve our customers. Some of our end -markets were impacted positively 
by the pandemic, whereas others were facing a significantly decreased demand. Our financial performance was so lid in 
2020 and COVID -19 has demonstrated the relevance of our strategic focus on Nutrition, Health and Sustainable Living. 
Hence, COVID -19 was not considered a t op risk, but the effects of the pandemic ha ve been factored into the assessment of 
all other risks . This was consistent with the outcome of the Materiality Matrix assessment . 
In 2021 we will focus on  keeping our employees engaged , as working remotely will be the standard for most of our office 
workers, at least in the first part of the year. Special attention will be paid to mental wellness and increasing resilience 
against pandemic fatigue.  
Other important risks  
There are also more generic business risks , such as business continuity, sourcing, product liability, intellectual property, 
tax, and business process risks. Our risk management system is set  up to adequately monitor and respond to these risks.  
We did not identify any significant company- specific risks associated with Brexit and the ongoing trade war between the US 
and China, other than the general uncertainties around, for example, currency and other economic developments.Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  140 What still went wrong in 2020  
The year 2020 presented us with many challenges and opportunities. We integrated three major new acquisitions, carved 
out our Resins & Functional Materials business, and implemented two wide -ranging internal change programs. The effects 
of the COVID -19 pandemic, meanwhile, placed additional and wholly unexpected demands upon our company worldwide.  
Despite the challenging circumstances we were able to maintain  our high standards. Nevertheless, sometimes things still 
go wrong.  Here we share the most significant incidents  of 20 20 across all three dimensions of People, Planet and Profit. 
This includes health, safety, environment, and security incidents (including fraud) as well as what we have learned from 
our businesses that has not developed as planned.  
Preventing repeat problems requires us to understand each incident  to the best of our ability. When an incident  occurs, 
our first priority is to take care of any injuries and repair any damage. We investigate every recordable incident using a 
fixed root cause analysis  method. We also trigger an improvement cycle, see Safety, health & well -being . We put new 
requirements or operating procedures in place as needed.  
In line with our reporting policy, this overview includes not only incidents but also some serious near -misses . Near -
misses are cases that did not result in injury, illness or serious damage but which could have done so. Even when a crisis is 
averted, it is our responsibility to learn from it and do better the next time. We have a process in place to collect the 
information ab out incidents and some serious near -misses as presented in this overview, using various sources  including 
our internal Letter of Representation, and  our reporting system for SHE and Security incidents.   
People  
Incidents involving falls   
At DSM Nutritional Products in Sisseln (Switzerland),  a contractor fell from a step near the bottom of a flight of stairs  and 
suffered an injury to his shoulder  ligaments . 
At DSM Nutritional Products in Belvidere (New Jersey, USA), an employee slipped while cleaning  the floor and fractured his 
pelvis .  
At DSM Nutritional Products in Mairinque (Brazil), a contractor truck driver  slipped while getting out of  the cabin of a truck. 
He suffered a number of fra cture d ribs. 
At DSM Food Specialties Yantai (Shandong Province, China) an employee broke his foot descending a ladder, when the ladder slid under him and he fell to the ground.  
At DSM Nutritional Products in Jiangshan (Jiangs u Province, China) an employee broke his thigh bone when he fell to the 
ground after stumbling over a manual pallet mover.  
To reduce such slip & trip incidents, we  emphasize the importance of ‘ keeping  eyes on task and mind on task ’ through 
dedicated behavi or-based training programs.  
Other health and safety incidents  
At DSM Nutritional Products in Naberezhnye Chelny (Tatarstan, Russia), an employee carrying out  maintenance work broke 
his little finger when the b it of his hand drill jammed. 
At DSM Biomedical in Exton (Pennsylvania, USA), an employee lost the tip of  his thumb wh ile carrying out  maintenance 
work on an exhaust fan motor. To prevent similar incidents, a general  retraining in the DSM Life Saving Rules took place.  
At DSM Nutritional Products in Grenzach (Germany), a n employee  passed out after enter ing a restricted area due to lack of 
oxygen caused by an unintended nitrogen flow into th at area. A colleague who was close by noticed that the technician What still went wrong in 2020  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  141 was unresponsive an d i mmediately initiated an emergency response. Fortunately, the employee  quickly and full y 
recovered.  
At DSM Food Specialties in Seclin (France), an employee broke h is foot wh ile trying to reposition a slipped calibration 
weight, despite wearing protective shoes.  
At DSM Nutritional Product in Kingstree (South Carolina, USA), a fire occurred at the s torage shelter  for empty raw material 
bags. The fire did not lead to any personal injury.  
At DSM Nutritional Products in Sisseln (Switzerland), an operator injured his left upper arm. As he was lifting a heavy filter 
flange, he lost grip with his gloved right hand and overstretched his left arm, causing a tendon rupture.  
At DSM Nutritional Products in Ueberlandia (Brazil), an employee in the snake fa rm suffered a snake bite when checking 
with a stick on a snake that appeared to be dead, but was still alive.  
At DSM Additive Manufacturing in Geleen (Netherlands), a contractor hurt his back while lifting a bucket as he was preparing a laboratory product ion batch.  
Security incidents  
At DSM Nutritional Products in Brazil, a truck carrying DSM products was approached by armed thieves on a parking lot near a gas station. The driver was threatened with firearms and had to hand over all DSM products that were in the truck. Fortunately, no personal injuries were sustained.  
An IT service provider  informed DSM that not all IT security controls for C loud services used by DSM were found to be 
effective, leading to data privacy vulnerabilities . DSM reported this inci dent to the Dutch Privacy Authority . Afterwards the 
IT service provider informed DSM that all deficiencies had been rectified  and that they had not found any evidence of  a 
data breach . 
While working for DSM Food Specialties in France, an employee was attacked, injured in the face and robbed of money by two thieves while walking back from a restaurant to his hotel.  
Planet  
At DSM Nutritional Products in Brotas (Brazil), a minor  explosion occurred in a waste water collection tank  due to 
anaerobic fermenta tion of a small amount of organic material at the bottom of the tank. Root cause analysis revealed that 
the explosion, which blew pieces off the top of the tank , had been caused by hydrogen produced by an unexpected 
fermentation process . Nobody was injured , nor did a loss of containment  occur . The incident was reported globally across 
our operations , and measures were put in place to prevent any reoccurrence of this unusual incident.   
Profit  
At DSM Biomedical in Exton (Pennsylvania, USA) , a balance sheet review revealed an item that had not been properly 
booked during a n ERP  system transition in 2018, and  which negatively impacted t he Profit and Loss statement  for 2020.  
At DSM Nutritional Products in Lalden (Switzerland) , a power failure , attributable to  the external power net operator, led to 
a loss of production f or several days.  
At DSM Nutritional Products (Netherlands) , an error in the classification of raw materials  imports  led to an understatement 
of import duty liabilities . This unde rstatement was reported to the Dutch Customs Authorities . It was rectified by means of 
a retrospective additional payment of import duties.  
At DSM Nutritional Products  (Switzerland, Indonesia) , we had open positions in foreign currencies that were unintent ionally 
not hedged, resulting in unplanned financial losses. Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  142 Supervisory Board and Managing Board Royal DSM  
Supervisory Board 
Rob Routs (1946, m), Chair  
First appointed: 2010. End of current term: 202 2. 
Nationality: Dutch. Nomina tion Committee (Chair), 
Remuneration Committee (member). Last executive 
position held: Executive Director Downstream and 
member of the Board of Royal Dutch Shell plc. 
Supervisory directorships/other positions: member of 
the Board of Directors of AECOM; mem ber of the Board 
of Directors of ATCO Group Ltd .Pauline van der Meer Mohr  
(1960, f), Deputy Chair  
First appointed: 2011. End of current term: 2021. 
Nationality: Dutch. Remuneration Committee (Chair), 
Nomination Committee (member). Last executive 
position held: President Executive Board Erasmus 
University Rotterdam. Supervisory directorships/other 
posit ions: Non-executive Director HSBC Holdings plc., 
non-executive director of the Board of Viatris Inc. ; Chair, 
Supervisory Board EY Netherlands; Chair, Board of 
Trustees Nederlands Danstheater; Chair of the 
Monitoring Committee of the Dutch Corporate 
Governa nce Code.
Eileen Kennedy (1947, f)  
First appointed: 2012. End of current term: 202 2. 
Nationality: American. Sustainability Committee (Chair), 
Nomination Committee (member). Position: Professor 
Nutrition Friedman School of Nutrition Science and 
Policy at Tufts University in Boston (USA); Supervisory 
directorships/other positions: Chair of  Sight and  
Life Foundation.Thomas Leysen  (1960, m) 
First appointed: 20 20. End of current term: 202 4. 
Nationality:  Belgian. Audit Committee (member), 
Sustainability Committee (member). Last executive 
position held:  CEO of Umicore; Supervisory 
directorsh ips/other positions:  Chair man of the Board of 
Umicore ; Chairman of the Board of Mediahuis; C hairman 
of the Belgian Corporate Governance Commission ; Chair 
of the King Baudouin Foundation .
Erica Mann (1958, f)  
First appointed: 2019. End of current term: 2023. 
Nationality: Australian. Sustainability Committee 
(member), Audit Committee (member). Last executive 
position held: Member of the Board of Management of 
the Bayer Group and Global President of Bayer ’s 
Consumer Health Division. Supervisory 
direc torships /other positions: Non -
executive /Independent Director of the Boards of  
Perrigo and Kellogg Company .Frits Dirk van Paasschen (1961, m)  
First appointed: 2017. End of current term: 2021. 
Nationality: Dutch and American. Audit Committee 
(member), Sustainability Committee (member). Last 
position held: CEO Starwood Hotels and Resorts. 
Supervisory directorships/other positions: non -
executive Board member Williams Sonoma (USA); Chair 
Board of Convene; Board member of CitizenM Hotels 
(NL); Board member JCrew group; Advisor to private 
equity firm TPG, The Red Sea Project, the Indian School 
of Hospitality; CEO practice at Russell Reynolds; CEO and 
Founder of The Disruptor's Feast Advisory.
Pradeep Pant (1953, m)  
First appointed: 2016. End of current term: 202 4. 
Nationality: Singaporean. Audit Committee (member), 
Sustainability Committee (member). Last executive 
position held: EVP and President APA C and EMEA of 
Mondelez International. Supervisory directorships/other 
positions: Honorary Council Member Food Industry Asia; 
non-executive Director Statutory Boards Max India Ltd, 
Max BUPA Health Insurance Co Ltd. , MAX Life Insurance 
Co Ltd. (India), and A ntara Senior Living Ltd. (India), 
President of Pant Consulting Pte Ltd.John Ramsay (1957, m)  
First appointed: 2017. End of current term: 2021. 
Nationality: British. Audit Committee (Chair), 
Remuneration Committee (member). Last position held: 
Chief Fina ncial Officer (CFO) and interim CEO of 
Syngenta AG. Supervisory directorships/other positions: 
Non-executive director of RHI Magnesita NV, non -
executive director of G4S plc. and non -executive director 
of Croda International.
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  143 Managing Board  
Geraldine Matchett (1972, f), Co-CEO 
Position: Co -CEO & CFO since February 2020; member Managing Board since August 2014 and CFO 
since December 2014. End of current term: 2022.  Nationality: British, French, Swiss. Supervisory 
directorships/other positions held: Non -executive Director of ABB; Board member of Catalyst Europe; 
Member of the HRH the Prince of Wales’ A4S (Accounting 4 Sustainability) CFO Leadership Network ; 
Board member of FCLTGlobal ; Executive Committee Member of the World Business Council for 
Sustainable Development (WBCSD);  Member of the Found ation Board of IMD Business School.   
e-mail: geraldine.matchett@dsm.com
Dimitri de Vreeze (1967, m), Co-CEO 
Position: Co -CEO & COO since February 2020; member Managing Board since September 2013. End of 
current term: 2021. Nationality: Dutch. Supervi sory directorships/other positions held: Chairman 
Supervisory Board DSM Netherlands; Member Executive Committee and Board member of C efic 
(European Chemical Industry Council) and C hair Sustainability Advisory Forum; Board member  ‘Fonds 
voor de topsport ’ (NOC*NSF; Dutch Olympic Committee Fund for top sport); member Supervisory 
Board Sanquin; Cha irman  Young Captain Foundation.  
e-mail: dimitri.vreeze -de@dsm.com
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  144 Statements of the Managing Board  
The Managing Board is responsible for the design and operation of the internal risk management and control systems. In 
discharging this responsibility, the Managing Board has made a systematic assessment  of the effectiveness of the design 
and operation of the internal control and risk management systems.  
On the basis of this report and in accordance with best practice 1.4.3 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code of December 2016, and Article 5:25c of the F inancial Supervision Act, the aforementioned assessment and the current state of affairs, to 
the best of its knowledge and belief, the Managing Board confirms that:  
-The internal risk management and control systems of the company provide reasonable assurance that financial
reporting does not contain any material inaccuracies
-There have been no material failings in the effectiveness of the internal risk management and control systems of
the company
-There are no material risks or uncertainties that could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect onthe continuity of DSM’ s operations in the coming twelve months
-There is a reasonable expectation that DSM will be able to continue its operations and meet its liabilities for at leas t
twelve months, therefore it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial reporting
It s
hould be noted that the above does not imply that these systems and procedures provide absolute assurance as to the 
realization of operational and strategic business objectives, or that they can prevent all misstatements, inaccuracies, errors, fraud and non -compliances with legislation, rules and regulations. Nor can they provide certainty that we will 
achieve our objectives.  
In view of al l of the above, the Managing Board confirms that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, the financial 
statements give a true and fair view  of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company, and that 
the management report includes a fair review of the position at the balance sheet date and the development and performance of the business during the financial year, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that the company faces.  
Heerlen, 1 March  2021 
The Managing Board  
Geraldine Matchett, Co-CEO 
Dimitri de Vreeze, Co-CEO Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  145 Report by the Supervisory Board 
Introduction by the Chair  
Dear reader,  
In all the years reported on by DSM since the company’s first foundation, probably not many have presented our company, 
the executive team and the Supervisory Board  with the challenges that we encountered in 2020. Looking back on the year, I 
am pleased that DSM faced this environment in a courageous, caring and collaborative spirit that showed what a truly innovative, agile and robust company we are.  
A chan ge of leadership is always a challenging moment in the life of any organization. With our long -standing CEO Feike 
Sijbesma stepping down on February 15, we entered a new phase in DSM’s history – led by our Co -CEOs Geraldine Matchett 
and Dimitri de Vreeze. Carefully planned and well prepared for, this transition occurred smoothly, providing us with an innovative model of joint leadership based on a deep mutual understanding and respect. I am proud of the way Geraldine and Dimitri have taken up their new joint role. The Supervisory Board also appreciates the thorough way in which Feike did prepare and execute the transition.  
Geraldine and Dimitri, along with the entire Executive Committee, found themselves confronted with unprecedented challenges because of the COVID -19 pandemic. They were not alone in this, however. Throughout the year, our employees 
across the globe demonstrated determination and initiative, maintaining safety standards, protecting supply chains and keeping our customers supplied in often very difficult circumstances. Our people showed what it means to work for a purpose- led, performance- driven company, contributing their time, know -how and resources to support their local 
communities.  
Despite the difficulties created by the pandemic, we stuck to our values and our strategy, and continued to make progress in terms of People, Planet and Profit during 2020. We are becoming a more diverse, agile and resilient organization, and we took further strides in developing a business that  does not only have s ustainability as a core value but which also visibly 
propagates sustainability in the wider world. The special challenges of 2020 have shown that, with creative thinking and responsible management, this approach improves both the top and bottom line. We are showing what it means to do well by doing good.  
The safety of our employees and contractors is always a key priority to the Supervisory Board and we spend ample time on it in our meetings. I am glad to report that in 2020, our Safety performance improved. We will continue to focus on safety 
as every incident is still one too many.  
The year 2020 was also a milestone year for DSM in terms of progress on our  growth strategy focused on Nutrition, Health 
and Sustainable Living . In order to strengthen our ability to deliver  organic growth, w e implemented changes in Nutrition 
and Materials to get our teams closer to customers and respond better and faster to thei r needs, while reducing internal 
complexity and cost. We  enhanced our platform -based approach to innovation, ensuring a healthy pipeline of new 
products and solutions. Additionally we integrated three important acquisitions into DSM’s Nutrition business – CSK, 
Glycom and the Erber Group businesses Biomin and Romer Labs that enhance our offering to customers. We extend a warm welcome to our new colleagues, and view with excitement the new capabilities and reach that have been added to our Nutrition business.  In addition, we announced the divestment of Resins & Functional Materials and associated 
businesses to Covestro AG, which we expect to close in the first half of 2021. These businesses join a new home with a
 
leading position  in their sector, a  track recor d of investment , and values  closely aligned  with our own, including 
sustainability and care for people.  
The constraints of the pandemic forced us all to interact in new ways. It was excellent to see how successful DSM’s first virtual investor event was, a long with the first virtual Annual General Meeting. My colleagues and I on the Supervisory Report by the Supervisory Board – Supervisory Board Report  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  146 Board were pleased that we were able to uphold the quality and effectiveness of our collaboration throughout the year, 
des
pite the fact that we were unable to hold physical meetings or enjoy our usual annual site visit. Like everyone else, we 
adapted to the situation, we learned from new experiences, and we supported each other.  
I would like to thank our Co -CEOs and our Executive Committee for everything they gave to DSM in 2020, the many 
stakeholders who continue to place their trust in our company  and all of DSM’s employees: Together we delivered a 
performance of which we can all be proud.  
Rob Routs, Chair of the Supervisory Board  
Supervisory Board Report  
This Report provides further information on the way the Supervisory Board performed its duties in 20 20. These include 
supervising the policy pursued by the Managing Board, the Managing Board ’s performance of its managerial duties, and the 
general course of affairs within our company and its businesses, as well as assisting the Managing Board with advice, either upon request or proactively. Finally, these duties also include assessing the Managing  Board ’s performance and ensuring 
that their remuneration is in line with that performance and that it provides the appropriate incentives. Since the inception  
of an Executive Committee, the Supervisory Board has also been responsible for ensuring that the  checks and balances 
that are part of the two -tier governance system are still taken into account, paying specific attention to the dynamics 
between the Managing Board and the Executive Committee.  
The responsibility of supervising the policy pursued by the  Managing Board includes evaluating the way the Managing 
Board implements DSM’s strategy  for long- term value creation and promotes a culture aimed at creating  value  and in line 
with our multi stakeholder approach both the Managing Board and Supervisory Board have the responsibility for weighing up the interests of all stakeholders. . This is all described in the sections  
Strategy , People  and Corporate governance and 
risk managem ent. 
Composition of the Supervisory Board  
The composition of DSM ’s Supervisory Board is diverse  in gender, nationality, background, knowledge and experience. The 
Board comprises five  men and three women. Two members are Dutch, one  American, one Dutch -American, one British, one 
Singaporean , one Australian, and one Belgian . The Board ’s current members  are Rob Routs (Chair), Pauline van der Meer 
Mohr (Deputy Chair), Eileen Kennedy, Thomas Leysen,  Erica Mann , Frits van Paasschen, Pradeep Pant  and John Ramsay. For 
detailed information on their backgrounds, see the company website and Supervisory Board and Managing Board Royal 
DSM. 
Following best practice 2.1.10 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, the Supervisory Board establishes that its members are able to act 
critically and independently  of one another, the Managing Board and any particular interests involved. To 
safeguard th is, the Supervisory Board is composed in such a way that all its members are independent in the meaning of 
best practice 2.1.8 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code.  
Report by the Supervisory Board – Supervisory Board Report  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  147 The targeted profile  of the Supervisory Board is reflected in its regulations, which are published on the company  website  
under ‘Corporate Governance ’. The Supervisory Board has four committees to cover key areas in greater detail : Audit, 
Nominations (to the Supervisory Board and Managing Board), R emuneration (of the Supervisory Board and Managing 
Board), and S ustainability. Information on these committees is given elsewhere in this section . The charters of the 
committees are publi shed on the  company  website  under ‘Corporate Governance ’. 
Relationship and stakeholder management  
In performing its duties, the Supervisory Board acts in accordance with the interests of the company and the business 
connected with it, taking into consideration the interests of the company ’s stakeholders . The Chair of the Supervisory 
Board is in regular close contact with the Co -CEOs, as is the Chair of the Audit Committee with the CFO.  
Furthermore, the Supervisory Board regularly interacts with members of the Executive Committee  who attend Supervisory 
Board meetings and  the yearly  site visit of the Supervisory Board.   
The Supervisory Board interacts with our emplo yees on various occasions and in various contexts. The Supervisory Board 
regularly receives information on relevant topics from senior leaders and experts in the company during committee meetings, full Supervisory Board meetings, and also as part of their ongoing professional education. An overview of the 
kind of topics discussed during the 2020 Board meetings,  which  also gave the Supervisory Board an opportunity to interact 
with the employees involved in th em, is given below. Normally  its annual site visit  gives  the Supervisory Board the 
opportunity to interact with employees at different levels, from the shop floor to senior leadership, thus collecting valuable information and insights from various sources across the company.  As a result of COVID-19, the Supervisory Board 
was unable to make a physical site visit in 2020 . Instead, an interactive virtual plant tour of the Veramaris facilities in Blair 
(Nebraska, US A) was given.  
Direct, one-to-one contact  between Supervisory Board members and Managing Board and Executive Committee members 
generally follows naturally from topics discussed in the meetings of the Supervisor y Board. These discussions draw on the 
expertise of individual Supervisory Board members, whose advice is sought on a wide range of specialist topics as required. Supervisory Board members also have direct contact with other employees in the course of the aforementioned site visits and specifically arranged meetings.  
In 2020, meetings were held virtually whenever practicable, while others (e.g., certain induction visits to DSM sites for new Supervisory Board members ) had to be postponed . 
Examples of the meetings and visits  that could take place include Thomas Leysen’s visit to DSM Nutritional Products in 
Kaiseraugst including a site visit to the DSM Nutritional Products Sisseln site (both Switzerland), and to DSM Protective 
Materials  in Heerlen (Netherlands ). Rob Routs and Frits van Paasschen reviewed DSM’s digital s trategy with the Chief Digital 
Officer. Rob Routs and Eileen Kennedy had an in- depth discussion on Personalized Nutrition with Co -CEO Geraldine 
Matchett and the Senior Vice President Corporate & Nutrition Strategy. Pradeep Pant, who is based in Singapore and has 
extensive knowledge of and experience with Asian markets, continued to be in regular contact with our senior 
management in that region.  
The Supervisory Board takes an active interest in maintaining a good understanding of our stakeholders  and their 
positions on vari ous topics related to the company ’s areas of business. This includes the perceptions of our shareholders . 
The Supervisory Board is informed of the position of other DSM stakeholders by the Managing Board. In addition, the Supervisory Board collects such information through its own network.  Report by the Supervisory Board – Supervisory Board Report  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  148 DSM Supervisory Board: key data and attendance records  
Rob 
Routs  
(C) Pauline  
van der 
Meer Mohr 
(DC) Eileen 
Kennedy  Thomas  
Leysen  Erica 
Mann  Frits van 
Paasschen  Pradeep 
Pant John  
Ramsay  
Diversity 
Year of birth  1946 1960 1947 1960 1958 1961 1953 1957 
Gender  Male  Female  Female  Male  Female  Male  Male  Male  
Geography  Europe  Europe  North 
America  Europe  Oceania  Europe / 
North America  Asia Europe  
Tenure 
Initial appointment  2010 2011 2012 2020 2019 2017 2016 2017 
Latest reappointment  2020 2019 2020 n.a. n.a. n.a. 2020 n.a.
End of current term  2022 2021 2022 2024 2023 2021 2024 2021 
Reappointment possible?  N Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 
Attendance 
Committee memberships  NomCo (C) 
RemCo  RemCo (C)  
NomCo  SustCo (C)  
NomCo  AC AC AC AC AC (C)  
RemCo  
Attendance 
SB meetings1 100%  100%  100%  100%  100%  100%  100%  100%  
Attendance Committee 
meetings  NomCo 
100%  
RemCo 
100%  NomCo 
100%  
RemCo 
100%  NomCo 
80%2
Sus
tCo 
67%2AC 
100%  
NomCo 
100%  AC 
83%3
SustCo 
100%  AC 
100%  
SustCo 
100%  AC 
100%  
SustCo 
100%  AC 
100%  
RemCo 
100%  
1 Attendance is reflected  for the one physical Supervisory  Board  (SB) meeting and nine virtual meetings  held in 2020. In addition  to these 
meetings  there  were  also four virtual Supervisory Board meetings in 2020  for which  the decision -making  had been  mandated  by the SB 
to the Chair of the Board  and the Chair of the Audit  Committee, who both attended  these  calls.   
2 Eileen Kennedy missed the Nomination Committee and the Sustainability Committee on 10 February for personal reasons. 
3 Erica Mann missed the Audit call  of the third quarter  due to the time of the call in her time zone . Report by the Supervisory Board – Supervisory Board Report  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  149 DSM Supervisory Board: key competences  
Rob 
Routs (C)  Pauline 
van der 
Meer 
Mohr (DC)  Eileen 
Kennedy  Thomas 
Leysen  Erica  
Mann  Frits van 
Paasschen  Pradeep 
Pant John 
Ramsay  
Competences  
General Management  x x x x x x x x 
Finance/Accounting/Auditing  x x x 
Strategy  x x x x x x x x 
Risk x x x x 
Marketing & Sales  x x x x 
Operations & Manufacturing  x x x 
R&D/Innovation/Technology  x x x 
Safety  x x x 
Sustainability &  Environment  x x x x x 
Emerging Economies  x x x x 
People & Organization  x x x x x 
IT/Digital  x 
Governance/Compliance/Legal Affairs  x x x x x x 
Public Affairs  x x x 
DSM’s businesses  x x x x x x 
Supervision and advice  
The Supervisory Board performs its duties of supervising and advising the Managing Board with respect both to recurring 
standard agenda items  for Supervisory Board meetings and to specific topics that become relevant at any given poi nt in 
time.  
The most prominent regular agenda item is an update on business performance , financials , treasury and investor 
relations topics. As part of this agenda item, the Supervisory Board tracks the company’ s financial performance, approves 
the annual Finance and Capital Expenditure Plan, is updated on capital markets expectations and deliberates on any 
additional treasury topics as needed.  In this COVID -19 year time was also spent on business continuity, as different 
scenarios and their capital and liq uidity impact were modeled to be fully prepared for the economic impact of COVID -19. In 
2020, the Supervisory Board also discussed and approved the usual share buy -back programs to cover commitments under 
share -based compensation plans and the stock divide nd. In addition, the funding plan for the acquisition of the Erber 
Group was discussed and approved. Furthermore, restructuring programs were discussed and approved.  
In line with our overall strategy , the Supervisory Board regularly discusse s our M&A strategy  and relevant developments 
within our sectors. The Supervisory Board was actively involved in the process of reviewing several potential M&A targets. This eventually led in 2020 to the expansion of our share in Zhejiang DSM Zhongken Biotechnology Co., Ltd. from 60% to 100% , and the acquisition of Glycom and the Erber Group, and finally the intended divestment of  our Resins & Functional 
Materials and associated businesses.  The Supervisory Board also discussed and approved a write down on our solar as sets 
following the aforementioned divestment, as well as two impairments in DSM Bio- based Products & Services. One following 
the decision to mothball the second -generation bio -ethanol  plant in Emmetsburg (Iowa, USA) (‘Project Liberty’) (in the 
second quart er) and one owing to an expected subdued market for biofuels (in the fourth quarter) .  
Strategy is a key topic on the Supervisory Board’s agenda, and in 2020 the Board dedicated most of its meeting time to 
reviewing DSM’s strategy . The outcome of these rev iews was presented during our  Investor Event in November 2020. This 
includes expanding  our specialty activities in Nutrition. T his will be done by adding a third dimension to our Nutrition 
business model , which is currently  built on the ax es of Global Prod ucts and Local Solutions . This third dimension is Report by the Supervisory Board – Supervisory Board Report  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  150  Precision & Personalization, an evolving field that is powered by developments in biosciences and digital  technologies.  
This growth strategy is accelerated by our  recent acquisitions. It also includes transforming our innovation methodology 
from a project -based approach to a platform -based one. As part of these strategic reviews , the Supervisory Board was in 
particular updated on the strategies of our various busin esses . Topics included  a deep dive into the subject of  sustainable 
animal f arming ; an innovation review that included  an update on our large innovation projects such as Project Clean Cow, 
Veramaris®, and Avansya®; Digital+; and our People & Organization st rategy.  
The smooth running of the Supervisory Board continued as usual in 2020, despite the restrictions on mobility imposed by the COVID -19 
pandemic. Here we show how also the DSM Supervisory Board met throughout 2020. Left -hand column, top to bottom: Rob Routs, Frits van 
Paasschen. Middle column: John Ramsay, Erica Mann, Eileen Kennedy. Right -hand column: Pauline van der Meer Mohr, Thomas Leysen, 
Pradeep Pant.  
Site visits  
Every year, the Supervisory Board visits DSM sites  in a particular region. This fosters interaction with employees across 
different areas of the company and provides Supervisory Board members with opportunities for continuing education. This 
year’s visit centered on Blair (Nebraska, US A) where our Avansya ® and Veramaris® products are manufactured. Due to the 
COVID -19 related restrictions visiting in person was not possible . Instead a fully virtual site tour was organized in October 
2020.  
Supervisory Board meetings and performance evaluation  
In 20 20, the Supervisory Board held its five regular meetings  and one regular call in the presence of the Managing Board  
and Executive Committee, as well as four  additional meetings also  in the presence of the Managing Board  and Executive 
Committee members . All m eetings but one took place virtually as a result of the COVID -19 restrictions. The additional 
meetings were needed partly because the time slots available for virtual meetings were shorter than they would have been for physical meetings, given the constrai nts imposed by the time- zone differences between the various locations in which 
the members of the Supervisory Board are based. The balance of the time usually allocated for meetings during the course 
Report by the Supervisory Board – Supervisory Board Report  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  151  of the year was dedicated to reviewing the company’s st rategy, among other topics. The additional meetings were also 
needed to discuss and approve possible acquisitions and the divestment of our  Resins & Functional Materials and 
associated businesses, and to engage in the alternative site visit program . Inform ation on attendance of Board and 
Committee meetings can be found in the table in this  Supervisory Board Report . 
The Supervisory Board also convenes in the absence of the Managing Board, which usually happens  before each meeting.  
An evaluation  of the Supervisory Board is performed once every three years by an external advisor; this was the case in 
2019. In the other two years, including 2020, the evaluation of the Supervisory Board is performed by means of a s elf-
assessment consisting of a written survey , followed by in -depth, one -on-one interviews between the Chair and individual 
Supervisory Board members.  
The overall feedback from the evaluation  in 2020 was again positive. All topics (team composition, meetings, committees, 
people processes, agenda definition, etc.) received very high scores.  Supervisory Board members appreciate the 
atmosphere in the Board, and the quality of discussions, which include constructive challenging where appropriate. All  
members feel heard, valued and trusted, and appreciate the distinctive strengths all the different members bring to the 
table. In 2020 , the informal moments of personal interaction between Board members and with Managing Board and 
Executive Committee members, as well as other employees, were of course  missed. In terms of follow- up and 
improvements , the Supervisory Board asked to spend even more time on innovation going forward and to increase the 
time allocated to post -investment reviews, analyzing the perf ormance of all investments made as well as those it was 
decided not to make. 
While the Managing Board’s performance  is (indirectly) also assessed as part of the evaluation, this happens throughout 
the year as part of the discussions on succession planning in the Nomination Committee . This applies particularly when 
the performance appraisals of Managing Board members are discussed, as well as their performance versus their 
individual targets in the Remuneration Committee. The Nomination and Remuneration Comm ittees report back on these 
discussions to the Supervisory Board.  
Committees  
The Supervisory Board has four committees  to cover key areas in greater detail: N omination, Remuneration, Sustainability 
and Audit. These are described in more detail below.  
Board  nominations  
The Nomination Committee  comprises Rob Routs (Chair), Eileen Kennedy , Pauline van der Meer Mohr  and Thomas Leysen . 
Geraldine Matchett, Dimitri de Vreeze and Cristina Monteiro,  Executive Vice President Group People & Organization, were 
also inv olved in this Committee ’s discussions. The Committee met five  times in 20 20. The recommendations and minutes of 
all Nomination Committee meetings were shared with the entire Supervisory Board. This feedback included advice and recommendations regarding topics to be approved by the full Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board also has access to all the meeting materials posted for the Nomination Committee meetings.  
In 20 20, discussions in this committee focused on succession planning  for the Managing Board , the Executive Committee,  
and the Supervisory Board. With respect to the Executive Committee, the discussions focused on the portfolio changes for Philip Eykerman, who took on the responsibility for the Human Nutrition and Health bu siness in the course of the year, and 
the succession of the Executive Vice President Group People & Organization.  
As in other years, the Supervisory Board established that the composition of the Managing Board is and will stay diverse in nationality, gender, background, expertise and experience, and that it provides a good foundation to support all clusters and business groups in achieving their targets and thus contributing to the company strategy. For detailed background information on the  Managing Board members, see the company  website  under Corporate Governance and in the 
Managing 
Board  section  of this Report.  
Taking into account the Supervisory Board profile as laid down in the Supervisory Board regulations, the Nomination Committee continued discussions on the overall composition of the Supervisory Board and discussed 
succession planning  Report by the Supervisory Board – Supervisory Board Report  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  152  for the Supervisory Board. At the 2020 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders , Thomas Leysen was appointed to the 
Supervisory Board. Furthermore , Rob Routs, Eileen Kennedy and Pradeep Pant were reappointed.  In view of Pauline van der 
Meer Mohr stepping down at the 2021 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, the Nomination Committee looked for a 
successor with a  similar profile. The Nomination Committee eventually proposed a new candidate for appointment to the 
Supervisory Board, Carla Mahieu , whose profile is closely comparable with that of Pauline van der Meer Mohr . 
Board remuneration  
The Remuneration Committee  had five meetings in 20 20. Pauline van der Meer Mohr (Chair), Rob Routs , John Rams ay and 
Frits van Paasschen  are members of this committee. Recommendations and minutes of the Remuneration Committee 
meetings were shared with the full Supervisory Board and were used to determine the final remuneration of the members of the Managing Board.  The Supervisory Board also has access to all the meeting materials provided for the Remuneration 
Committee meetings. For more information on the remuneration policy, see the 
company website . For the implementation 
of that policy in 20 20, see the Remuneration report 2020 . 
Discussions focused on the performance  and the related remuneration  of the members of the Managing Board, in respect 
of both company and individual performance. In 20 20, time was spent on remuneration topics related to the S hort-Term 
Incentive (STI) and L ong-Term Incentive (LTI)  scorecard . Attention was given both  to the setting of targets for 2020 and to 
first estimates of performance against those targets, gender pay gap, equal pay , and next steps to be taken in the 
Remuneration Report in terms of disclosures. Th e performance and remuneration of the Executive Committee members 
were also shared with the Remuneration Committee. Geraldine Matchett, Dimitri de Vreeze and Cristina Monteiro  were also 
partly involved in these discussions.  
Sustainability 
The Sustainabilit y Committee  prepares the Supervisory Board ’s discussions on sustainability topics. The Sustainability 
Committee met three times in 20 20. This Committee comprises Eileen Kennedy (Chair), Pradeep Pant, and Erica Mann. The 
Chair of the Supervisory Board has a standing invitation and participated in all meetings. The recommendations and 
minutes of these meetings were shared and discussed with the entire Supervisory Board during its meetings with the Managing Board. The Supervisory Board has access to all the meeting materials provided for the Sustainability Committee meetings. The feedback from the Committee to the full Board included advice and recommendations regarding topics to be approved by the Supervisory Board, in particular the sustainability reporting i n this Report. Taking into consideration the 
draft  
Assurance report of the independent auditor on the Sustainability Information by KPMG  of this Report, the full 
Supervisory Board approved the reporting against  these  topics  on 1 March 2021 . The assurance report was finalized by 
KPMG after the approval of the Supervisory Board.  The Sustainability Information compl ies with the Standards of the 
Global Reporting Initiative and our internal reporting criteria, which are in cluded in this Report, and is also aligned with the 
international Integrated Reporting Council <IR> Framework where possible.  
During the year, recurring topics were the company ’s performance  against its People and Planet aspirations, with a focus 
on safety, emissions reduction, Brighter Living Solutions, and Inclusion & Diversity. Through these discussions, the Sustainability Committee followed up on the progress made with the implementation of the sustainability and safety aspirations set as part of the company’s s trategy. Deep dives were made into several topics. One was our  greenhouse gas 
roadmap, both s cope 1 & 2 as well as s cope 3  emissions. In terms of Inclusion & Diversity, the Committee discussed a new 
approach  and the company’s long -term  strategy. In light of our s trategy the Committee also made a deep dive  into 
alternative proteins with a team from DSM Food Specialties that is also involved in Olatein, our  joint venture with Avril for  
canola-based protein.  
Financials and auditing  
The activities of the Supervisory Board in the area of financials and auditing are prepared by the Audit Committee . The 
Audit Committee met six times in 20 20. John Ramsay (Chair), Pradeep Pant, Frits van Paass chen , Erica Mann  and Thomas 
Leysen  are members of the Audit Committee. All Supervisory Board members have a standing invitation to attend Audit 
Committee meetings . In 2020 , most of them used this standing invitation for the two conference calls in which the financial 
developments and interim results for the first and third quarter were discussed, as these are not followed by a full  
Supervisory  Board meeting. The Chair of the Supervisory Board participated in all meetings and calls.  The highlights and 
the minutes of all Audit Committee meetings were shared with the full Supervisory Board. This feedback included advice and recommendations regarding topics to be approved by the full Supervisory Board. In 20 20, these included the approval Report by the Supervisory Board – Supervisory Board Report  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  153 of the 202 1 C OA Audit plan, the proposed reappointment of the external auditor (approved by the 20 20 Annual General 
Meeting of Shareholders), and the proposed funding  of the  acquisition of the Erber Group. All Supervisory Board members  
have access to all the meeting materials posted for the Audit Committee meetings.  
Our external auditor KPMG , Geraldine Matchett  in her capacity as CFO,  and the Senior Vice President  Group Controll er 
participated in all t he meetings of the Audit Committee. So did Dimitri de Vreeze  in his  capacity as Co -CEO, along with the 
managers responsible for internal audit, risk management and compliance , with the exception of the two meetings  in 
which the financial developments and interim results for the first and third quarter were discussed. Afte r every meeting, 
with the exception of the two conference calls in which the financial developments and interim results for the first and 
third quarter are discussed , the Audit Committee meets with the external auditor without the Managing Board being 
present.  
The Committee had in -depth discussions on the company ’s financials ; the Finance plan; the Capital Expenditure plan; 
dividend proposals; the financial statements and accounting policy changes. The discussions on internal risk management and control sys tems included the internal control framework, compliance with recommendations and observations made 
by internal and external auditors, and the role and functioning of COA . They also included the endorsement of COA’s  
proposed audit plan for 202 1, which was subsequently approved by the full Board. As part of the Corporate Risk 
Assessment, the company ’s main risks and their mitigation were discussed. The Committee also discussed and evaluated 
cases submitted under the company whistleblower policy (DSM Alert), fraud cases, on -going litigation , and privacy 
compliance. Another recurring topic is our cybersecurity resilience, about which the Audit Committee is informed through a dashboard , as well as information on running cybersecurity programs and cybersecurity governance. A deep dive on Group 
Business Services and IT s trategy were specific topics dealt with in 2020 . 
Discussions were held with KPMG about the audit plan, management letter, audit report and financial statements for 2020, including managerial judgments and key accounting estimates. In its management letter, KPMG shared the outcome of its evaluation of the  company’s procedures and system of internal controls to the extent necessary within the scope of the 
audit of the financial statements. The observations of KPMG were presented along the pillars that support our in -control 
statement and focused specificall y on the Internal Control Framework pillar as this is also where DSM had set out on an 
improvement journey several years ago (for the  Statements of the Managing Board
, and for a visualization of our control 
environment see Corporate governance ). Given the increased maturity level of our internal Control Framework we have set 
further ambitions for the coming years. In its management letter KPMG ident ified several opportunities in making our 
framework more effective and efficient.  
Finally, in 20 20, the Audit Committee formally evaluated the external audit or, and discussed the reappointment of KPMG . 
The proposal to reappoint KPMG is based  on the Audit Committee ’s own assessment of KPMG, on discussions with KPMG in 
the absence of management,  and on the outcome of an evaluation among DSM executives. The Audit Committee conducts 
a more in -depth evaluation once every three years; in the two other years, a lighter evaluation is performed. For 20 20, a 
more in -depth  evaluation was performed , also in view of the change in lead audit partner  for that reporting year.  The 
auditor evaluations in prior years were positive and the outcome of the 20 20 evaluation was positive as well.  
Financial statements 20 20 
The Report by the Managing Board and the financial statements for 20 20 were submitted by the Ma naging Board to the 
Supervisory Board, in accordance with the provisions of Article 30 of the Articles of Association, and were subsequently 
approved  by the Supervisory Board on 1 March  2021. The financial statements were audited by KPMG, who issued an 
unqualified opinion  (see the Independent auditor’s report ). The Supervisory Board established that the external auditor 
was independent of DSM.  
The Supervis ory Board will submit the 20 20 financial statements to the 2021 Annual General Meeting  of Shareholders, and 
will propose that the shareholders adopt them and release the Managing Board from all liability in respect of its managerial activities and release the Supervisory Board from all liability in respect of its supervision of the Managing  
Board. The profit appropriation as proposed by the Managing Board and approved by the Supervisory Board is presented in the 
Profi t section  of this Repo rt.  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  154   
Remuneration report 2020   
Introduction by the Chair of the Remuneration Committee  
On 15 February 2020, our  Co-CEOs took over the leadership of the company and were almost immediately confronted with 
one of the biggest challenges in recent history: the COVID -19 pandemic. Market conditions changed considerably and 
business priorities had to be ad apted to reflect the new situation . The immediate priorit y was to safeguard the safety, 
health and well-being  of our employees at all times and to secure, wherever possible, deliveries to our customers by 
keeping our facilities up and running.  
Our businesses were impacted by the pandemic, with Nutrition overall performing well in this environment and Materials 
being significantly affected. Actions were taken in a timely manner to protect profitability and cash flow generation while 
we continued to execute on our long -term strategy. During the year, we completed two  acquisitions with in Nutrition 
(Glycom and the Erber Group businesses) , and announced the divestment of our Resins & Functional Materials business es 
to Covestro  AG. During the same period , we also completed two global programs aimed at streamlining our operations and 
at generating stronger growth. In the  second half of the year , we saw Nutrition continuing to perform well, although 
impacted somewhat by foreign exchange headwinds, and we saw a more positive pick -up of momentum  for Materials as of  
September.  
DSM is recognized as a purpose -led company, creat ing long -term value for all its stakeholders and society at large across 
the three dimensions of People, Planet and Profit. Our scientific expertise and innovation capabilities help us to find 
answers to some of the world's biggest challenges and to grow o ur business at the same time. In view of this and related 
to the COVID -19 pandemic, DSM has focused on  the safety, health and well -being  of our workforce whilst safeguarding 
business continuity .  
Throughout the pandemic, DSM chose not to make use of govern ment support, acknowledging that the company was not in 
need of such support. In addition, we  supported various initiatives all over the globe to fight the pandemic, for example,  by 
providing manufacturing capacity to produce disinfectants for use in hospitals and expediting the establishment of  a joint 
venture to produce much -needed face masks.  
In line with the company’s  long-standing policy to deliver a stable, preferably rising, dividend, DSM will propose at the 2021 
AGM a stable dividend following the s tep-up in the dividend paid in 2020, and despite the impact of the pandemic on the 
financial performance of the Materials businesses.  
Besides various initiatives taken to safeguard our employees’ safety, health and well -being, m easures were also  taken to 
support employees who  faced additional costs because of a lockdown (for example , commuting  costs in locations wh ere 
public transport was suspended  during lockdown). All employees  and their families were offered the much -needed 
vitamins helping to boost their immune system s. 
From a reward perspective, it is to be noted that agreed terms and conditions for our employees were  maintained in 2020. 
DSM processed the regular annual cycles, meaning that agreed CLA  increases as well as individual merit incr eases based 
on individual performance were  processed without any reservations, while incentive schemes were  delivered in accordance 
with the achievement of predefined targets established early in 2020, before the start of the COVID -19 pandemic . The 
number of lay -offs directly related to the COVID -19 pandemic were  very limited.  
DSM’s Remuneration policy for the Managing Board is fully aligned with the deployment of the company’s strategic 
objectives. The design of our short - and long -term incentive plans em phasizes the importance of building long -term 
growth opportunities in the domains of Health, Nutrition and Sustainable Living. Targets on energy efficiency and greenhouse gas emission reduction, building our portfolio  of Brighter Living Solutions, underpin  our commitment to 
sustainability, while ensuring financial performance in line with our key strategic goals (Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Net 
Operating Free Cash Flow)  and safeguarding employee safety and engagement .  Report by the Supervisory Board – Remuneration report 2020  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  155  In addition DSM continued to deliver improvements in customer -centricity, large innovation projects, cost control and 
operational excellence, resulting in sound results , reflected in the remuneration as presented in this report.  
The Supervisory Board has taken a balanced approach with regard to the remuneration of the Managing Board. In 2020, 
due to the high uncertainty prevalent at the start of the year, no base salary increase was applied for the Managing Board 
and the Executive Committee. In this respect, it should also be noted that our  Co-CEOs’  remuneration was positioned below 
the level of the previous CEO. After careful consideration, the goals and targets set for the 2020 incentive plans that had 
been  set prior the global pandemic were not adjusted in view of the pandemic’s  adverse effects. Focus was kept on finding 
ways to overcome these challenges and continue to progress with the deployment of our purpose- led, performance- driven 
strategy . 
This Remuneration report provides a summary of the remuneration policy for the Managing Board Kon inklijke DSM N.V. and 
the Supervisory Board Koninklijke DSM N.V. respectively, as well as an overview of the remuneration of the members of the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board in the financial year 2020. The full, legally superseding remuneration policy as approved by the AGM is published on the company website
. This report is prepared in accordance with the relevant parts 
of Section  135 Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.  
Pauline van der Meer Mohr  
Chair Remuneration Committee  
Remuneration of the Managing Board Koninklijke DSM N.V. 2020  
Summary of the remuneration policy  Managing Board Koninklijke DSM N.V. 
The remuneration policy of the Managing Board Koninklijke DSM N.V. is designed to attract and retain qualified leaders who can shape  our purpose -led, performance- driven strategy, engage our people and other stakeholders , and ultimately 
achieve results – putting customers first and delivering on our promises. The policy provides clear focus : improv ing 
company performance and enhancing purpose- led, long-term value creation across multiple dimensions ( People: 
individual and  societal, Planet: ecological  and sustainability and Profit: economic and financial) while recognizing the 
interests of all our stakeholders (especially our customers, employees , shareholders, as well as society at large). 
Remuneration is linked to company and individual performance. Based on  the company’s short - and long -term strategic 
objectives as well as our business drivers, results are measured on the basis of specified targets, balancing short - and 
long-term outcomes, serving the interests of all our stakeholders. In order to be competi tive and to ensure alignment 
internally, Total Direct Remuneration offered by DSM approaches – from below  – the median of a predefined peer group. 
Reward levels are benchmarked against  the Dutch/European (no US companies) labor market peer group, while the design 
of various reward components is reviewed against the broader perspective of  best market practices.  
Labor market peer group  
European industry peers:  Dutch AEX-listed peers:  
- Clariant  - Ahold Delhaize  
- Covestro  - AkzoNobel  
- Evonik Industries  - ASML  
- Givaudan  - Heineken  
- Johnson Matthey  - KPN 
- LANXESS  - Philips  
- Lonza  - Randstad  
- Solvay  - Wolters Kluwer  
 Report by the Supervisory Board – Remuneration report 2020  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  156  The full version of the remuneration policy of the Managing Board Koninklijke DSM N.V., as approved by the 2019 AGM, is 
available on the company website . The following table specifies the elements of the remuneration policy , describing their 
purpose, design and link to our company strategy as well as their potential value.  
Purpose  Design and link to strategy  Value  
Goal  
The goal of DSM's remuneration policy for the Managing Board Koninklijke DSM N.V. is to offer an on- target total 
remuneration package approaching – from below – the median of the labor market peer group.  
Total Direct Compensation  
Is the basis for benchmark 
efforts, i.e., the reference to the labor market peer group . Includes base salary and variable income. Variable 
income concerns the performance-related Short -
Term Incentive (STI) and the STI deferral & matching plan, as well as the Long -Term Incentive plan (LTI). In 
addition, Managing Board members are entitled to certain benefits.  Value of each respective item is 
included hereafter.  
Base salary  
Basic pay for doing the job.  Aims to provide a fair and competitive basis for the 
total pay level in order to attract and retain qualified leaders. Annual review based on the market movement for executives based in the Netherlands and peer companies. In -depth benchmark every 
three years.  Base salaries at DSM approach – 
from below – the median of the 
labor market peer group.  
Short -Term Incentive (STI)  
Incentive ali gning short -term 
business objectives and business drivers with strategic company objectives. Driving pay for performance.  The Supervisory Board sets goals and targets for the 
respective performance year and determines the extent to which these have been achieved. By ensuring that strategic objectives are properly reflected in stretching yet achievable targets, the realization of strategic business objectives is addressed. Half of the at -target STI is linked to 
financial objectives; the other half is tied to  
sustainability aspirations and individual goals.  On-target performance: 50% of 
annual base salary. Maximum opportunity capped at 100%. Threshold: no STI pay -out in 
case the target for Adjusted EBITDA is not achieved to the level of at least 75%.  
STI defe rral & matching   
Ensures that longer -term 
considerations are sufficiently taken into account in pursuing short -term 
objectives.  Conversion of STI into shares, with a 1:1 company 
match delivered in Performance Share Units (PSUs). The PSUs vest upon the realization of predefined goals (same as LTI program), observing a three -year 
vesting period. By linking the vesting of the PSUs to the targets of the LTI program, it is ensured that decisions regarding short -term results are aligned 
with long -term value creat ion. Mandatory conversion: 25% of 
STI achieved; voluntary conversion: 0 –25%, with 
incremental steps of 5%. Maximum number of matching PSUs to vest  is equal to number  
of PSUs  granted.  
Long -Term Incentive (LTI)   
Focus on long- term value 
creation. Designed to ensure that decisions made are in the long -term interests of all 
stakeholders and to ensure that interests of the Managing Board and the company stakeholders are aligned.  PSUs are awarded every year, to be converted into 
shares upon realization of predef ined targets, 
observing a three -year vesting period. A five- year 
holding period (starting at grant date) applies. Performance goals are based on company strategy, driving long- term value creation. Half of the target 
LTI is linked to financial goals; the other half is linked to sustainability aspirations. Performance is measured over three financial years, starting with the year of grant.  Based on face value, the at -
target grant equals 100% of base salary ; the number of PSUs 
granted equals the maximum to vest (i.e., 150% of base salary). 
Therefore, the m aximum vesting 
opportunity is 1 00% of the 
number of PSUs granted.  Report by the Supervisory Board – Remuneration report 2020  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  157  Purpose  Design and link to strategy  Value  
Shareholding requirement  
Aligning reward to the 
interests of stakeholders and emphasizing confidence in performance and strategy.   Managing Board members are expected to build up a 
shareholding in the company; the minimum shareholding requirement must be accrued in four years. Considered are shares privately purchased and vested shares granted under DSM share -based 
compensation plans.  The minimum share -holding 
requirement is 300% of annual base salary for both Co- CEOs 
and 200% for other Managing Board members.  
Pension and other benefits   
Post-retirement remuneration 
contributing to the competitiveness of the overall package. Together with other benefits, creates alignment with market practice.  Mandatory enrollment in basic pension plan as 
applicable to all DSM employees in the Netherlands (Collective Defined Contribution). In addition, a company -paid contribution to allow participation  in 
the so -called Net Pension Plan under conditions as 
applicable to Netherlands -based employees 
(Individual Defined Contribution).  
Other benefits include sick pay (aligned with Netherlands -based employees) and a company car.  Pension scheme aligned with 
plans in place for employees in 
the Netherlands.  
Other benefits aligned with market practice.  
Goal -setting   
Goal-setting  is key to driving 
pay for performance aligned with Company strategy and ensuring that decisions made and results delivered are aligned with the interests of DSM's stakeholders.  
 The Supervisory Board sets goals, their respective 
weight and targets (i.e., metric) for the respective performance year under the STI and LTI scheme, considering:  
- Company strategy  
- Focus on long- term value creation  
- Historical performance, business outlook, and circumstances and priorities  
- Stakeholder expectations  
- At target level, there is a 50:50 split between financial goals and sustainability/individual goals.  Goals must be stretching yet 
achievable.  
 
The company website contains an overview of the main terms and conditions of employment of both Co -CEOs.  
Total remuneration of the Managing Board 2020  
Introduction  
Actual remuneration for 2020 is fully aligned with the remuneration policy , which complies with EU requirements and 
Dutch legislation.  
Feike Sijbesma handed over his responsibilities as CEO and Chairman of the Managing Board / Executive Committee 
Koninklijke DSM N.V. and as member of the Managing Board, to his successors, Geraldine Matchett and  Dimitri de Vreeze, 
on 15 February 2020. In view of a proper handover to  the Co -CEOs appointed with effect from that date, and also in order to 
finish certain projects, Feike  Sijbesma remain ed employed until 1 May 2020, observing the terms and conditions of the 
employment agreement. As a result of this leadership transition, the Managing Board of DSM went down from three to two 
members, as both Geraldine Matchett and Dimitri de Vreeze have been members of the Managing Board in prior years.  
 This Remuneration report provides an overview of the 2020 remuneration of the Co -CEOs, Geraldine Matchett and Dimitri 
de Vreeze. Note that their remuneration delivered prior to 15 February 2020 is based on the terms and conditions 
applicable to Managing Board members. Feike Sijbesma’s remuneration in 2020 is included in a separate paragraph.  
 
 
 Report by the Supervisory Board – Remuneration report 2020  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  158  Base salary  
Upon their appointment, the annual base salary of the Co- CEOs was set at €925,000, below the base salary of their 
predecessor of €960,000. While the policy allows an annual review of base salaries, the Supervisory Board refrained from 
an adjustment in 2020 due to the uncertainties associated with the development of the COVID -19 pandemic at that time. 
Note tha t for our global workforce, salary adjustments have been implemented, following our policies and practices.  
Fixed annual base salary  
in € 15 February 2020    1 July 2019    
Geraldine Matchett  925,000   637,500   
Dimitri de Vreeze  925,000   637,500   
Short -Term Incentive (STI) 
This report includes the STI achievement for 2020, payable in April 2021, and based on base salary paid in 2020 . Targets 
were set ahead of the STI cycle, in accordance with the remuneration policy and budgeted results for the current year, 
ensuring that achievement  would be  challenging. A scenario analysis was conducted prior to final approval of the targets 
by the Supervisory Board.  The targets for the 2020 scheme were set prior the global pandemic and have not been adjusted 
in view of the pandemic’s  adverse effects. Focus was kept on finding ways to overcome these challenges and to continue 
the pursuit of DSM’s strategic objectives.  
Definitions of goals set for 2020 STI (total at -target  weight, 50% of annual base salary ): 
 
- Adjusted EBITDA (weighting 12.5%): s um of the operating profit plus depreciation and amortization, adjusted for 
material items of profit/loss following acquisitions/divestments, restructurings and other circumstances deemed necessary  
- Adjusted net operating fr ee cash flow (10%): c ash flow from operating activities, corrected for the cash flow of the 
APM adjustments, minus the cash flow of Capital expenditures and drawing rights  
- Net sales growth (2.5%): n et organic sales growth  
- Brighter Living Solutions (5%): products and services that, considering the whole product life cycle, offer an 
environmental benefit (ECO+) and/or social benefit (People+) compared to mainstream reference solutions. DSM uses a standard approach to measure the impact of portfolio changes (f or ECO+ the Eco Life Cycle Assessment, using 
the WBCSD Chemical sector approach, whereas People+ qualifications are made using DSM's People LCA method)  
- Safety (5%): b ased on Frequency Index for recordable injuries  
- Employee Engagement (5%): b ased on the Hig h-Performance Norm in industry  
- Individual goals (10%): in 2020 the Managing Board / Executive Committee shared two team targets  
 The company does not disclose the exact actual targets, as these qualify as commercially sensitive information, though the targets set are fully in line with the published strategic, financial and sustainability goals of the company. The overall average achievement of the Managing Board members for performance year 20 20 amounts to 61.3% ( 2019: 54%) of annual 
base salary. KPMG performs procedures over the realization of financial targets and the validation process of non -financial 
targets .  
 Within DSM’s STI scheme, pay -out brackets are defined, taking into account the nature of the goal. Depending on the goal, 
the number o f brackets varies from 5 to 9. The lowest bracket represents a target realization of 0%, the highest of 200% of 
the at  target weighting of the respective goal. Goals, targets and pay- out schedules have been defined at the beginning of 
the year and have not  been adjusted in view of the COVID -19 pandemic.   Report by the Supervisory Board – Remuneration report 2020  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  159  The following table provides an overview of the realization of the 2020 STI targets.  
  
Weight    
in % of    
base salary    To be achieved in % of target defined  Performance    
bracket    
achieved    Pay-out   
in % of    
base salary    Minimum  Target  Maximum  
Adjusted EBITDA  12.5%    96.0%  100.0%  103.0%  0.0%    0.0%  
Adjusted net operating free cash flow  10.0%    87.5%  100.0%  109.0%  200.0%    20.0%  
Net sales growth  2.5%   50.0%  100.0%  150.0%  0.0%    0.0%  
Brighter Living Solutions  5.0%   92.0%  100.0%  110.0%  100.0%    5.0% 
Safety  5.0%   100.0%  100.0%  110.0%  200.0%    10.0%  
Employee Engagement  5.0%   94.0%  100.0%  106.0%  125.0%    6.3% 
Individual goals  10.0%    0.0%  100.0%  200.0%  200.0%    20.0%  
 DSM’s businesses were impacted by  the circumstances that characterized 2020. Overall, Nutrition perform ed well, whereas 
Materials was to a considerable degree impacted by the pandemic, though picking up momentum as of September . The 
resulting Adjusted EBITDA was  below the threshold (defined as 96% of targeted Adjusted EBITDA) and therefore the target 
does not deliver a pay -out. This is also true for the target regarding the Net sales growth. A strong focus on cash 
management resulted in a maximum achievement of the Adjusted net operating free cash flow target. The Brighter Living Solutions target was achieved. DSM demonstrated a very strong Safety performance resulting in maximum achievement of the respective target. Employee Engagement went up, resulting in an ov erachievement of the target, a confirmation of our 
focus on safety, health and well -being of our employees.  
 The combined realization resulted in a 2020  STI pay -out as included in the overview below.  
Short -Term Incentive  
in € 2020   2019  
Geraldine Matchett  545,249   326,970   
Dimitri de Vreeze  545,249   342,720   
Short -Term Incentive deferral & matching (STI)  
In addition to the mandatory deferral (25% of STI achieved), the Managing Board members decided to convert an additional 25% (maximum possible) of the STI paid in 20 20 into shares. This means that the Co -CEOs converted 50% of their 
STI into this long -term incentive, demonstrating their trust  in the company strategy  and their  focus on the long term. A 1:1 
grant of PSUs was implemented,  as included in the following table . The 2020 grant was based on the STI achieved over 2019 
and therefore on the 2019 terms a nd conditions as member of the Managing Board.  
Grant of PSUs under the short -term deferral & matching scheme  
Number of PSUs  2020 grant    
(vesting 2023)    2019 grant    
(vesting 2022)    
Geraldine Matchett  1,558   2,552   
Dimitri de Vreeze  1,632   2,474   
Long -Term Incentive (LTI)   
2020 and 202 1 grant 
In 2020, 12,500 Performance Shares Units (PSUs) were granted to each of the Co -CEOs (2019: 12,500). The grant is based on 
the annual base salary applicable on the grant date and the average share price in January of the year of grant. The 2021 grant equals 10,000 P SUs for each Co -CEO. Any grant equals the maximum number of PSUs that may vest. The 2020 and 
2021 grants are based on the terms and conditions as Co- CEO, whereas the 2019 grant was based on the 2019 remuneration 
as member of the Managing Board. The fact th at nevertheless the number of PSUs granted in 2020 and 2021 is equal or 
lower compared to the 2019 grant is driven by the share price appreciation.   
Goal- setting and vesting  scheme  
Targets were set ahead of the LTI cycle, in accordance with the remuneratio n policy, ensuring that achievement of 
threshold, target or maximum vesting is challenging. A scenario analysis was conducted.  Report by the Supervisory Board – Remuneration report 2020  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  160  Definition of goals set for LTI grants : 
 
– Total Shareholder Return — TSR (weighting 25%):  sum of capital gain and dividends paid, representing the total return 
to shareholders ; the relative ranking (within the peer group) reflects the market perception of overall performance 
relative to our peers  
– Return on Capital Employed — ROCE (25%) : operating profit as percentage of weighted average capital employed 
– Energy Efficiency Improvement — EEI (25%):  the reduction of the amount of energy used per unit product (known as 
energy efficiency) on a three- year rolling average basis  
– Greenhouse Gas Emissions — GHGE (25%):  as of the 2019 grant: absolute reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in 
kilotons over performance; the target up to and including the 2018 grant, is based on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions per unit of product  
Vesting 201 7 grant  
The performance period of t he PSUs granted in 2017 was completed by year -end 20 19: the actual vesting was on 31 March 
2020. This concerns the PSUs granted under the Long -Term Incentive plan as well as the PSUs granted under the STI 
deferral & matching plan. The following vesting schemes applied .  
TSR¹ ROCE   EEI GHGE Efficiency improvement  
Rank  % of PSUs  
granted  
that vest²  ROCE ultimo  
performance 
period  % of PSUs  
granted  
that vest²  EEI%   
(over a 3 -year 
period)  % of PSUs  
granted  
that vest²  GHGE Efficiency  
improvement %  
(over a 3 -year 
period)  % of PSUs  
granted  
that vest²  
1  100  ≥14.0  100  ≥4.00   100  ≥8.75   100  
2  97  13.5 - <14.0  83  3.25 - <4.00   83  8.25 - <8.75   83  
3  93  12.5 - <13.5 67  2.75 - <3.25   67  7.75 - <8.25   67  
4  87  12.0 - <12.5 50  2.50 - <2.75   50  7.25 - <7.75  50  
5  80  11.5 - <12.0  33  2.25 - <2.50   33  6.75 - <7.25   33  
6  73  <11.5 -  2.00 - <2.25   17  6.25 - <6.75   17  
7  67    <2.00   -  <6.25   -  
8  50        
9  33        
10–15 -        
1 Peer group 201 7 grant includes AkzoNobel, Arkema, BASF, Chr. Hanssen, Clariant, Croda International, DuPont /IFF, Evonik, Givaudan, Kerry, 
LANXESS, Lonza, Novozymes, Solvay.  
2 Any PSU grant concerns the maximum number that may vest, 100% vesting included in this table means that the target has been 
achieve to the maximum level.  
A strong share price appreciation resulted in the second rank on the relative Total Shareholder Return target. T he ROCE  
was within the bracket set around the target and therefore resul ted in 67% of the grant related to this target to vest (the 
grant consists of the maximum nu mber that may vest) . Both sustainability goals have been outperformed, resulting in a 
maximum contribution to the overall vesting result, demonstrating DSM’s commitment to Sustainability as a business 
driver. The table hereafter provides an overview of the number of PSUs granted in 2017 that vested (i.e. converted to 
unconditional shares) in 20 20. In total 90.8% of the PSUs granted in 2017 did vest (in 2019 100% of the PSU’s granted in 2016 
did vest). Since the number of PSUs granted equals the maximum number to vest, the vesting equals 136.25% of the targeted grant.  
PSUs granted in 2017 vested in 2020  
Numbers of PSUs vested¹  LTI  STI deferral & 
matching scheme  
Geraldine Matchett  14,074   3,592   
Dimitri de Vreeze  14,074   3,592   
1 At vesting, a sell -to-cover applied: out of the vested shares, a number of shares are sold at vesting date to cover taxes due.  
  Report by the Supervisory Board – Remuneration report 2020  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  161  Pension and other benefits  
Participation in the basic pension plan provided by the Dutch pension fund ( Stichting Pensioenfonds DSM Nederland  – 
PDN) to all DSM employees in the Netherlands  is mandatory for the Managing Board. Regarding pensionable salary not 
covered by the basic pension plan, a company -paid pension contribution as determined by the Supervisory Board applies. 
This contribution can be used by Managing Board members to participate in the so -called Net Pension Plan under 
conditions applicable to all participating DSM employees.  The company provides accident insurance cover , a company car , 
and a fixed representation allowance in line with market practice.   
Total remuneration  
Actual remuneration for 2020 is fully aligned with the remuneration policy.  An in-depth benchmark conducted in 
preparatio n of the latest review of the Remuneration Policy Managing Board Koninklijke DSM N.V. demonstrated that DSM 
lagged behind the median of the labor market peer group, also considering the pay- out scenarios of the incentive 
schemes. A further, more recent rev iew, shows that the current  total remuneration  of DSM’s Co -CEOs is the lowest  within 
our (Dutch/European ) peer group.  The difference would become even bigger if the benchmark comparison were to be 
made with a global peer group (i.e. , including US -based pee rs). 
The following table provides an overview of the total remuneration expense for the company in relation to the Managing 
Board  in accordance with IFRS rules  (these costs are not necessarily equal to compensation paid or the cash out for DSM).  
Total remuneration expense for the Managing Board in accordance with IFRS definitions  
x € thousand  Fixed  Variable compensation  Fixed  Fixed  Total  Proportion fixed / 
variable 
remuneration  Base salary / fees  Short -term 
incentive  Share -based 
compensation¹  Pension 
expenditure  Other items²  
 2020   2019  2020³   2019³   2020   2019  2020   2019  2020   2019  2020   2019  2020   2019  
Geraldine Matchett  889  630  545  327  987  1,030   148  109  26  86  2,595   2,182   41:59   38:62   
Dimitri de Vreeze  889  630  545  343  986  1,029   172  126  47  47  2,639   2,175  42:58   37:63   
Total  1,778  1,260   1,090   670  1,973  2,059   320  235  73  133  5,234   4,357   41:59   37:63   
1 Share -based compensation represents the expense in respect of DSM of Performance Share Units (PSUs) awarded. These costs are recognized over the 
vesting period and therefore cover several years. Against the opening price at vesting date (i.e., 31 March 2020), the 2020 vesting (the Co -CEOs together) 
represented the value of €3.7 million, subject to a sell to cover.  
2 Fringe benefits, such as company car and allowances.  
3 Share -based compensation for 2020 concerns the grants in 2017 (partial), 2018, 2019 and 2020 (partial), share -based compensation for 2019 concerns the 
grants in 2016 (partial), 2017, 2018 and 2019 (partial).  
 Related to their appointment as Co -CEO, total remuneration expenses for each of the Co -CEOs did go up, since base salary 
was adjusted as per 15 February 2020. As of this date, the adjusted base salary was also considered for the Short -Term 
Incentive over 2020, as well as the employer contribution to the pension plan. As an overall result in the p roportion fixed 
versus variable, the fixed part of the remuneration did go up slightly.  
Remuneration former Managing Board member  
As part of a planned succession process, Feike Sijbesma ceased to be CEO and member of the Managing Board with effect from 15 February 2020. In order to ensure a proper handover, he remained employed until 1 May 2020, honoring the agreed terms and conditio ns of employment until this date. The terms and conditions of Feike Sijbesma leaving are in line with 
DSM policies and practices. Feike Sijbesma did not receive any severance payment and/or other compensation related to his departure. Details reported here for Feike Sijbesma concern the full calendar year 2020.  
 From 1 January until 1 May 2020, Feike Sijbesma received the agreed base salary of €320,000 (2019: €951,000), while the expenditures for his participation in the pension scheme and other items amoun t to €83,000 and €103,000 respectively (for 
2019, the respective amounts were €234,000 and €59,000). Over 2020, Feike Sijbesma did not receive a Short -Term Incentive 
(the STI achievement over 2019 amounted to €541,000), nor was he eligible for a Long -Term Incentive grant.  
 The 29,333 Performance Units (PSUs) granted in 2017 and outstanding at year-end 2019 (share price at grant: €63.65) vested on 31 March 2020, observing the realization of predefined goals. Upon vesting, this resulted in the delivery of 27 ,171 shares 
(2,162 were forfeited). The 2020 remuneration expenses related to the vesting of and to the outstanding performance share units during the period of employment in 2020, amounted to €816,516 (compared to €1.563 million in 2019). Considering the plan rules and Feike Sijbesma’s (extraordinary) contributions, the Supervisory Board has determined – in line with DSM Report by the Supervisory Board – Remuneration report 2020  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  162  policies – that PSUs granted in 2018 and 2019 to Feike Sijbesma under the ‘Royal DSM N.V. Restricted Share Plan, 
regulations applicable t o the Managing Board’, as well as the matching PSUs related to the deferral of STI concerning the 
performance years 2018 and beyond, will vest in 2020 due to Feike Sijbesma’s departure. This involves the following 
number of vested PSUs: (i) for 2018, 21,264 (share price at grant date: €80.04); (ii) for 2019, 22,372 (€97.74); (iii) for 2020, 2,578 (€105.00). In total this amounts to 46,214 shares, resulting in a remuneration expense of €2.911 million, covering the vesting of PSUs granted (in 2018 and beyond)  during active employment to vest in 2020. The total 2020 remuneration expense 
related to vesting of equity -based compensation amounts to €3.727 million. Feike Sijbesma will remain tied to post -
employment holding periods of these shares of 2 – 5 years.  
 The total remuneration expense concerning Feike Sijbesma over the term of employment in 2020 amounted to €1.322 
million (compared to €3.348 million in 2019). Considering the term of employment in 2020 and the vesting in 2020 of PSUs already granted during ac tive employment (i.e. from 2018 and beyond), the total Remuneration expenses over 2020 amount 
to €4.233 million (compared to €3.348 million in 2019).  
 The vesting of long -term incentives granted during employment in combination with Feike Sijbesma leaving  DSM resulted 
in a tax expense for the company based on Article 32bb of the Dutch Wage Tax Act (1964) in the amount of €2.629 million. This is not a renumeration component paid to Feike Sijbesma but a tax levy in line with Dutch tax legislation. It is emph asized that this expense is purely based on the observance of previously agreed terms and conditions of employment 
in line with the remuneration policy as approved by the AGM and are not related to any severance incentives or payments related to the fact that Feike Sijbesma ceased to be a member of the Managing Board or to the termination of his employment
33. This is a tax expense to the company regarding remuneration items already granted in the past and now 
vesting and not a remuneration component paid to Feike Sijbesma.  
Equity -based compensation  
Main characteristics  
The main conditions of the share -based compensation are : 
- Vehicle  Performance Share Units (PSUs), converted to shares at vesting  
- Grant date  Last trading day in March  
- Vesting period  Three years, starting at grant date  
- Vesting conditions  Realization predefined performance goals and in service at vesting date  
- Performance period  Three performance years, starting 1 January year of grant  
- Holding period  Five years, starting at grant date  
- Lock-up period  Blocking period chosen by incumbent, may result in tax discount  
 
  
 
1 Including the tax expense for DSM,  total 2020 expenses charged in accordance with the Dutch Civil Code to the Company’s Income 
statement, amounted to €6.862 million, these expenses are not equal to compensation paid or the cash out for DSM.  
 
 Report by the Supervisory Board – Remuneration report 2020  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  163  Outstanding Performance Share Units  
The table below provides an overview of outstanding PSUs (granted under the LTI and STI deferral & matching scheme 
respectively).  
Outstanding PSUs  
 Year of    
issue    Outstanding 
at   
31 Dec. 2019    In 2020  Outstanding at    
31 Dec. 2020    Share price    
at date of    
grant (€)    Granted  Vested  Forfeited /   
expired    
Geraldine Matchett  2017 19,092   -  (17,666)  (1,426)  -  63.65  
 2018 13,800   -  -  -  13,800   80.04  
 2019 15,052   -  -  -  15,052   97.74  
 2020 -  14,058   -  -  14,058   105.00  
 Total  47,944   14,058   (17,666)  (1,426)  42,910    
 Retained shares originated from PSUs  44,990    
.        
Dimitri de Vreeze  2017 19,092   -  (17,666)  (1,426)  -  63.65  
 2018 13,800   -  -  -  13,800   80.04  
 2019 14,974   -  -  -  14,974   97.74  
 2020 -  14,132   -  -  14,132   105.00  
 Total  47,866   14,132   (17,666)  (1,426)  42,906    
 Retained shares originated from PSUs  36,927    
 The table below provides an overview of stock options held by Dimitri de Vreeze (these stock options were granted prior to his first appointment as a Managing Board member). During 2020, he exercised 18,000 stock options; the shares obtained were sold for an average share price of €122.02.  Geraldine Matchett does not hold stock option s. 
Outstanding stock options  
 
Year of 
issue  Outstanding at 
31 Dec. 2019  In 2020  Outstanding at 
31 Dec. 2020  Average share 
price at 
exercise (€)  Exercise 
price (€)  Expiry date  
Exercised  Forfeited/    
expired    
Dimitri de Vreeze  2012 12,000   (12,000)  -  -  114.20   40.90   15 May 2020  
 2013 12,000   (6,000)  -  6,000   137.67   48.91   7 May 2021  
 Total  24,000   (18,000)  -  6,000      
Of which vested  24,000     6,000      
 
For employee information, as required by section 383d Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, reference is made to Note 27, Share -
based compensation . On 31 December 2020, 2,460,656 (2019: 3,020,830)  of the total numb er of treasury shares outstanding 
were held for servicing  equity -based remuneration plans.  
Shareholding obligation  
In addition to the performance shares held on the basis of vested grants under the DSM Stock Incentive Plan, the Co -CEOs 
have invested in DS M shares. These shares were bought through private transactions with private funds (including shares 
purchased through STI deferral). The table provides an overview of the number of shares held at year -end.  
Managing Board holdings of DSM shares 
 31 December 2020  31 December 2019  
 Ordinary shares    
purchased with    
private money    Holdings from    
vested PSUs    Total    Ordinary shares    
purchased with    
private money    Holdings from    
vested PSUs    Total    
Geraldine Matchett  14,886   44,990   59,876   13,328   33,631   46,959   
Dimitri de Vreeze  23,989   36,927   60,916   22,357   27,587   49,944   
Total holdings  38,875   81,917   120,792   35,685   61,218   96,903   
 
The Co -CEOs significantly exceed the shareholding obligation (300% of base salary). Report by the Supervisory Board – Remuneration report 2020  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  164  Company performance versus remuneration over time  
Five-year review of company performance and Managing Board remuneration  
The following table provides an overview of the development of the remuneration of the members of the Managing Board 
over the past five years, the development of company performance, and the average remuneration of other employees 
(excluding the Managing Board members ). Total remuneration for Managing Board members consists of the remuneration 
expenses calculated in accordance with IFRS as included in the annual reports of the relevant years. The table provides an overview of company performance based on Adjusted EBITDA, share price (year average) and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.  
Typically, the share of total remuneration that is at risk varies for different employee segments and geographies, due to the impact of incentive schemes. While  the percentage of variable pay as a percentage of total remuneration is highest for 
the Co-CEOs (at target 150%), it may be limited or nil for other employee segments or in certain countries (also as a result 
of CLA negotiations). Based on performance, the results of the respective incentive schemes (and therefore the impact on total remuneration) varies over time. The average remuneration of all other employees (excluding the Managing Board) is influenced not only by factors such as differences in the pay mix, or changes in exchange rates, but also by factors related 
to the composition of the employee po pulation such as the impact of acquisitions and divestments, restructuring,  and in- 
and outflow of personnel.  
5-year overview of the year -on year -change of remuneration and company performance  
  2016  2017  2018  2019  2020  Average¹  
Managing Board remuneration        
Geraldine Matchett  Base salary  3.5% 1.4% 2.7% 2.6% 41.1%  10.3%  
 Total remuneration  27.3%  12.0%  22.3%  -3.8% 18.9%  15.3%  
Dimitri de Vreeze  Base salary  3.5% 1.4% 2.7% 2.6% 41.1%  10.3%  
 Total remuneration  15.5%  3.9% 25.1%  -0.6% 21.3%  13.0%  
Company performance        
Adjusted EBITDA²  17.4%  14.5%  6.0% 9.9% -2.0% 9.2% 
Year-average share price  9.1% 24.4%  25.8%  23.1%  19.6%  20.4%  
Greenhouse gas emission improvement  4.2% 4.1% 9.3% 12.7%  8.5% 7.8% 
Average employee remuneration        
Base salary employees Netherlands  4.2% 4.3% 3.3% 3.4% 4.3% 3.9% 
Average remuneration employees global  4.2% 0.9% -1.6% -0.2% -0.2% 0.6% 
1 Average calculated over the years  for which a change on year -on-year basis is provided.  
2 Based on DSM figures: five -year summary . 
 
DSM’s performance in terms of EBITDA, share price increase and Greenhouse gas emissions improvement has been outstanding over the past five  years. This has also become visible in the development of dividend payments. The Managing 
Board’s total remuneration expenses obviously changed in 2020, due to the CEO change. Base salary of Geraldine Matchett and Dimitri de Vreeze has been adjusted as of  15 February 2020, reflecting their new position; also impacting the 2020 
Short -term incentive as well as contributions to the pension plan. The leadership transition also resulted in the number of 
Managing Board members going down from three to two. Takin g this into account, the Managing Board’s total 
remuneration expenses developed in line with the performance of the company , whilst the year -on-year change in base 
salary remains below the year -on-year change of average base salaries of employees in the Netherlands. Total 
remuneration expenses of the members of the Managing Board clearly demonstrate the fluctuations in the Short -Term 
incentive achieved and the expense related to equity -based compensation. Due to the fact that for employees globally a 
lesser  portion of total remuneration is variable, the year -to-year change of the average remuneration of our employees 
globally (which includes all employee costs as included in Note 5
 of the Consolidated Financial Statements ) shows less 
fluctuations. The flattening of the change is to a large extent caused by merger & acquisition activities and restructuring of 
our operations, while the adjustments of exchange rates also had an impact. In addition, the year -on-year change of the 
average base salary in the Netherlands, as well as average employee cost globally, are influenced by the fact that the 
composition of the underlying employee population changes from year to year as a consequence of factors including retirements, new hires, restructurings, and merger & acquisition activities.  Report by the Supervisory Board – Remuneration report 2020  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  165  Pay ratio  
Considering the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, the pay ratio is calculated per 31 December 2020 and is based on the 
average remuneration expense reported for each Co -CEO and the total employee cost . Since companies set their own 
definition in this respect, intercompany comparisons must be made with caution. The pay ratio will differ year- on-year, 
since the variable pay (as a percentage of annual base salary) will differ from year to yea r based on company results. Given 
that their pay is to a larger extent at risk, such fluctuations have a higher impact at Managing Board or Executive level, compared to the average  variable pay of the employee group (limited or no variable pay component) . The ratio will 
furthermore be influenced by differences  in pay structures  between regions, acquisitions/divestments and foreign 
exchange rates .  
Due to the CEO change, the pay ratio dropped in 2020, since the remuneration package was set lower compared to the outgoing CEO, whilst equity -based compensation includes series granted in their previous role. The pay ratio calculated 
versus the Dutch employee remuneration average was for both Co -CEOs 19 :1 (201 9: 25:1), based on a total cost of € 537 
million in the Netherlands (which includes the remuneration of the Managing Board and has been deducted in the ratio calculation) and a headcount in the Netherlands of 3,858  as at 31 December 20 20. The ratio of total remuneration, including 
annual base salary, STI, LTI and other benefits such as pension (as reported in this Remuneration report) versus the average remuneration of total employees globally is 33:1 (201 9: 41:1) for each of the Co -CEOs. 
Underlying data for the pay ratio calculation can be retrieved from the table 
DSM’s remuneration expense for the Managing 
Board  (including table notes) in the section Total remuneration of this Remuneration report, as well as from the table  
Geographical information in Note 4, Segment information , and  from the table Employee benefit costs in Note 5, Net sales 
and costs (continuing operations)  to the consolidated financial statements.  Data for the Netherlands are explicitly 
mentioned as they are not directly retrievable.  
Retrospect and o utlook  
Whereas the Managing Board Koninklijke DSM N.V. before the CEO transfer had three members, the board now consists of two Co-CEOs. Therefore the overall remuneration expenses in 2020 dropped compared to 2019. Further to this, the 
following considerations should be mentioned:  
- Base salary of the incoming Co-CEOs has been positioned below base salary of the outgoing CEO  
- Until 15 February 2020, base salary of the Co -CEOs was at the level set for members of the Managing Board (i.e., 
below CEO level)  
- The 2020 STI for the Co -CEOs is based on the actual base salaries paid in 2020  
- In 2020, the share units granted to  the Co -CEOs in 2017 vested; note that the number of share units granted in 2017 
was based on the base salaries applicable as a Managing Board member – this effect will also occur in 2021 and 2022  
 
Following the strategic update provided in 2020, the Super visory Board has decided that the goals underlying the Short - 
and Long -Term Incentive schemes will not be adjusted for 2021.  
Early 2021, a quick scan was conducted, benchmarking the position of DSM within the labor market peer group as defined 
within the Remuneration Policy Managing Board Koninklijke DSM N.V. The scan (benchmark) showed that DSM dropped to the lowest position in the peer group as far as targeted total Direct Compensation (Annual Base Salary plus targeted Short -
Term Incentive plus targeted Long -Term Incentive) is concerned and is far from approaching the median from below as set 
out in the remuneration policy. The Supervisory Board has therefore decided as a first step to close the gap to adjust annual base salary of the Co- CEOs to €1,003,62 5 as per 15 February 2021. This adjustment reflects a step -up towards the 
base salary of the outgoing CEO and in addition considers the market movement of the peer group and the employees based in the Netherlands. After this adjustment and compared to the quick scan mentioned, the Co -CEOs base salary 
moves towards the 25
th percentile of the labor market peer group whereas target Total Direct Compensation still remains 
below the 25th percentile.  
Although DSM in general has an attractive proposition to attrac t talent, DSM faces more and more difficulties in attracting 
and retaining senior leaders (one or two reporting levels below the Executive Committee). This is due to the fact that the Report by the Supervisory Board – Remuneration report 2020  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  166  remuneration of the Managing Board sets a ceiling especially with regard  to Short - and Long -Term Incentives. Together 
with the fact that the Managing Board’s targeted Total Direct Remuneration positions below the 25th percentile of the labor 
market peer group, this calls for action. On the one hand to further align actual remuneration of the Managing Board with 
the policy confirmed by the AGM, and on the other hand enabling DSM to submit compelling and competitive remuneration propositions to attract and retain senior talents that help building DSM’s future success. Hence, in 2 021 we plan to begin to 
explore ways to address such gaps, in order to ensure our remuneration approach and policy continue to support our business ambitions and future goals. 
Remuneration of the Supervisory Board Koninklijke DSM N.V. 2020  
Summary of the R emuneration policy Supervisory Board Koninklijke DSM N.V.  
The remuneration policy is designed to engage qualified leaders with the right balance of personal skills, competences and experience required to oversee the execution of the company ’s strategy, its  performance and its creation of long -term 
value, recognizing the interests of all stakeholders. In line with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, the remuneration is not linked to company and individual performance. As a reference, the remuneration of the Supervisory Board is 
benchmarked to market practice, predominantly against AEX companies, given the company ’s country of domicile. The total 
fixed remuneration should approach the median of the reference market. The full version of the remuneration policy  for 
the Supervisory Board Koninklijke DSM N.V. as approved by the 20 19 AGM is available on the company website .
 
The table below summarizes  the key elements of the remuneration policy, describing purpose, design and (potential) value.  
Purpose  Design  Value  
Fixed fee  
Basic pay for doing the job  Reward Supervisory Board members and incentivize 
them to utilize their skills and competences to the maximum extent possible in executing their tasks. The reward reflects the nature of responsibilities, the time spent, and aims to provide a fair and competitive pay level to engage qualified leaders.  
Review: in principle, every three yea rs, based on in -
depth benchmarking.  Approaching the median of the 
market reference (predominantly AEX companies).  
Position and  annual  fee: 
- Chair €105,000  
- Deputy Chair €75,000 
- Member €70,000 
- Chair Audit Committee €18,500  
- Member Audit Committee €12,000  
- Chair other Committees €14,000  
- Member other Committees €8,500  
Intercontinental travel fee  Fixed amount representing time commitment related 
to intercontinental travel.  €5,000 for each time it is required 
to travel outside the continent of residence.  
Expenses  Expenses incurred in fulfilling duties are reimbursed. 
To be paid upon submission of a statement of expenses, partially covered by a fixed allowance.  Depending on level of expenses. 
Fixed per annum: €1,250.  
Shareholding requirement  In line with Dutch Corporate Governance Code, no 
mandatory shareholding requirement. Supervisory Board members are encouraged to invest in privately owned DSM shares.  Not applicable.  
Benefits and loans  Supervisory Board members are not entitled to 
partici pate in any benefits program offered to 
employees. Loans will not be provided.  Not applicable.  Report by the Supervisory Board – Remuneration report 2020  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  167  Total remuneration 2020  
Committee overview  
The Supervisory Board members are assigned to the various  committees.  
Committee overview  Audit  Nomination  Remuneration  Sustainability  
     
Rob Routs , Chair   Chair  Member   
Pauline van der Meer Mohr , Deputy Chair   Member  Chair   
Victoria Haynes , until 8 May 2020  Member   Member   
Eileen Kennedy   Member   Chair  
Thomas Leysen, as of 8 May 2020  Member  Member    
Erica Mann  Member    Member  
Frits van Paasschen  Member   Member   
Pradeep Pant  Member    Member  
John Ramsay  Chair   Member   
 Total Remuneration  
The table provides an overview of total remuneration provided in 20 20. 
Remuneration of Supervisory Board Members  
in € Fixed  Total remuneration  Portion  
fixed/variable  
compensation  Annual fee  Committee fee  Other costs1 
 2020   2019  2020   2019  2020   2019  2020   2019  2020   2019  
Rob Routs, Chair  105,000   96,667   22,500   20,208   1,250   6,250   128,750   123,125   100:0   100:0   
Pauline van der Meer Mohr, Dep. Chair  75,000   68,750   22,500   20,208   1,250   6,250   98,750   95,208   100:0   100:0   
Victoria Haynes, Member until 8 May 2020  29,167   65,833   8,542   19,042   521  24,250   38,229   109,125   100:0   100:0   
Eileen Kennedy, Member  70,000   65,833   22,500   20,209   6,250   24,250   98,750   110,292   100:0   100:0   
Thomas Leysen, Member as of 8 May 2020  40,833   -  11,958   -  729  -  53,521   -  100:0   100:0   
Erica Mann, Member as of 8 May 2019  70,000   40,833   20,500   11,958   6,250   14,730   96,750   67,521   100:0   100:0   
Frits van Paasschen, Member  70,000   65,833   20,500   19,042   6,250   29,250   96,750   114,125   100:0   100:0   
Pradeep Pant, Member  70,000   65,833   20,500   19,042   6,250   24,250   96,750   109,125   100:0   100:0   
John Ramsay, Member  70,000   65,833   27,000   24,917   1,250   6,250   98,250   97,000   100:0   100:0   
Total  600,000   535,415   176,500   154,626   30,000   135,480   806,500   825,521   100:0   100:0   
1 Involves International travel fee, expenses allowance and expenses exceeding expenses allowance.  
 
In line with the remuneration policy, variable compensation does not apply, and Supervisory Board members do not 
participate in any pension scheme. No extraordinary items apply. The total annual fees increased due to the fact that 2020 
was the first full year in which the fees as established in the revised 2019 policy came into effect. The total outlay  in 20 20 
was slightly lower than in 201 9. This was attributable to the fact that the number of payments related to the 
intercontinental travel fee were limited as a result of the restrictions on travel owing to the COVID- 19 pandemic.   
Benefits and loans  
Members of the Supervisory Board are not eligible for any benefit programs offered  by the company (or any beneficiary) to 
its employees ; nor are any loans provided.  
Equity -based compensation  
As confirmed in the remuneration policy, Supervisory Board members do not receive any equity -based compensation. They 
are, however, encouraged to h old privately owned shares  in DSM . At year -end 2020, Pauline van der Meer Mohr held 
1,529  shares (2019: 1,529); John Ramsay held 1,057 shares (2019: 1,057) ; and Thomas Leysen held 5,035 shares. No other 
member of the Supervisory Board held shares in the co mpany during 2020.  Report by the Supervisory Board – Remuneration report 2020  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  168  Remuneration over time  
The table provides an overview of the total remuneration of the Supervisory Board members over a five -year period. A 
comparison of the development of total remuneration compared to company performance is not provid ed, as the 
Supervisory Board's total remuneration is not linked to company performance (Dutch Corporate Governance Code and 
remuneration policy of the Supervisory Board Koninklijke DSM N.V.).  
5-year overview of the year -on-year change of the Supervisory Bo ard remuneration  
 2016  2017  2018  2019  2020  5-years 
average¹  
Rob Routs, Chair  15.5%  10.9%  0.0%  14.8%  4.6% 9.1% 
Pauline van der Meer Mohr, Dep. Chair  14.9%  10.2%  0.0%  15.8%  3.7% 8.9% 
Victoria Haynes, Member until 8 May 2020  10.5%  7.6% 0.0%  15.8%    
Eileen Kennedy, Member  26.5%  0.4% -4.2% 22.2%  -10.5%  6.9% 
Thomas Leysen, Member as of 8 May 2020        
Erica Mann, Member as of 8 May 2019        
Frits van Paasschen, Member as of 3 May 2017     11.6%  -15.2%   
Pradeep Pant, Member as of 29 April 2016    -3.9% 11.1%  -11.3%   
John Ramsay, Member as of 3 May 2017     17.6%  0.0%   
1 Average calculated over the years  for which a change on year -on-year basis is provided (such year -on-year changes are only calculated 
for years in which the respective Supervisory Board member was engaged during the whole year).  
Closing remarks and shareholder vote  
The 2019 AGM approved the remuneration policy for the Supervisory Board Kon inklijke DSM N.V. (98.45% in favor) as well as 
the remuneration policy for the Managing Board Koninklijke DSM N.V. (97.48% in favor).  
The total remuneration delivered in 2020  is aligned with the respective remuneration policies: no deviations or derogatio ns 
applied.  As in 201 9, no revision or claw -back of any incentives occurred in 20 20. 
The remuneration for the financial year 2020 , as described in this report, is subject to an advisory vote at the 202 1 AGM. 
Questions raised in the 20 20 AGM regarding remun eration items were  addressed in the respective meeting  and reference is 
made to the  Q&A document and  minutes of th at meeting, posted on the company website . As a result, there were no 
specifics raised that needed to be addressed in this Remuneration report.  
Heerlen, 1 March 2021  
 
The Supervisory Board  
Rob Routs, Chair  
Pauline van der Meer Mohr, Deputy Chair  
Eileen Kennedy  
Thomas Leysen  
Erica Mann  
Frits van Paasschen  
Pradeep Pant  
John Ramsay  
 
   
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  169  Information on the DSM share 
Shares and listings  
Ordinary shares  in Koninklijke DSM N.V. are listed on the Euronext stock  exchange  in Amsterdam (Netherlands) (Stock 
code 00982, ISIN code NL0000009827). Options  on ordinary DSM shares are traded on the European Option Exchange  in 
Amsterdam (Euronext.liffe). In the US, a sponsored unlisted American Depositary Receipts (ADR) pro gram is offered by 
Deutsche Bank Trust Co. Americas (DR ISIN US7802491081), with four ADRs representing the value of one ordinary DSM 
share.  
Besides the ordinary shares, 44.04 million cumulative preference shares A  (cumprefs A) are in issue, which are not listed 
on the stock exchange; these have been placed with institutional investors. The cumprefs A have the same voting rights as ordinary shares, as their nominal value of €1.50 per share is equal to the nominal value of the ordinary shares.  
The dividend p ercentage  of the cumprefs A is based upon the dividend yield of the ordinary shares (dividend as a 
percentage of the average share price). This percentage may be increased or decreased by a mark -up or discount of no 
more than one hundred (100) basis points , to be determined by the Managing Board in consultation with the Supervisory 
Board. The basis of computation of the dividend on the Preference Shares is €5.2942.  
Transfer  of the cumprefs A requires the approval of the Managing Board, unless the shareholder is obliged by law to 
transfer his shares to a previous shareholder. 
The average number of ordinary shares outstanding  in 20 20 was 171,535,921 . All shares in issue are fu lly paid. On 31 
December 20 20, the company had 172,219,339 ordinary shares outstanding.  
Issue of shares  
The issue of shares  takes place by a decision of the Managing Board. The decision is subject to the approval of the 
Supervisory Board. The scope of this  power of the Managing Board shall be determined by a resolution of the General 
Meeting of Shareholders and shall relate to at most all unissued shares of the authorized capital, as applicable now or at any time in the future. In the Annual General Meeting  of Shareholders of 8 May 20 20 this power was extended up to and 
including 8 November 202 1, on the understanding that this authorization of the Managing Board is limited to a number of 
ordinary shares with a nominal value amounting to 10% of the issued capital at the time of issue, and to an additional 10% of the issued capital at the time of issue in connection with a rights issue . The issue price will be determined by the 
Managing Board and shall as much as possible be calculated on the basis of the tradi ng prices of ordinary shares on the 
Euronext Amsterdam Stock Exchange.  
Distribution of shares 
Under the Dutch Financial Markets Supervision Act, shareholdings of 3% or more  in any Dutch company must be disclosed 
to the Netherlands  Authority for the Financi al Markets (AFM). According to the register kept by the AFM, the following 
shareholders had disclosed that they have a direct or indirect (potential) interest between 3% and 10% in DSM's total share capital on 31 December 20 20: 
- Artisan Investments GP LLC  
- ASR Nederland N.V.  
- BlackRock, Inc.  
- Capital Research and Management Company and EuroPacific Growth Fund  
- NN Group N.V.  
- Rabo Participaties B.V.  Information on the DSM share 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  170  Repurchase of own shares  
The company may acquire paid-up own shares  by virtue of a decision of the Managing Board, provided that the par value 
of the acquired shares in its capital amounts to no more than one tenth of the issued capital. Such a decision is subject to 
the approval of the Supervisory Board. In the Annual Ge neral Meeting of Shareholders of 8 May 20 20, the Managing Board 
was authorized to acquire own shares for a period of 18 months from said date (i.e., up to and including 8 November 202 1), 
up to a maximum of 10% of the issued capital, provided that the compa ny will hold no more shares in stock than at 
maximum 10% of the issued capital.  
In 2019, DSM announced a share buyback program  with an aggregate market value of €1 billion  starting in the second 
quarter of 2019, with the intention to reduce its issued capi tal. This program was in addition to the usual repurchase 
programs which DSM executes from time to time to cover commitments under share- based compensation plans and the 
stock dividend.  
Execution of this €1 billion share buy -back program commenced on 1 Ap ril 2019. Under this program, DSM repurchased 
5,362,936 of its own shares for a consideration of €600 million in 2019. In 2020, DSM repurchased another 1,276,035 million shares for a consideration of €145 million, bringing the total number of shares repurchased to 6,638,971 for a total consideration of €746 million. In June 2020, DSM announced that given the COVID -19 environment and given the acquisition 
of Erber Group, it has decided to cancel the remainder of its €1 billion share buy -back program.  
Besides  the share buy -back program with the intention to reduce its issued capital, in 2020 DSM executed the repurchase  
of 1,600,000 of its own shares for a total consideration of €165 million for the purpose of covering the company’s commitments under existing s hare-based compensation plans and shares for stock dividend. This program included share-
based compensation plans (900,000 shares) and stock dividend as part of the final dividend 2019 and interim dividend 2020 (700,000 shares).  
In total in 2020, DSM repur chased 2,876,035  of its own shares for a combined consideration of €309 million . 
Development of the number of ordinary DSM shares  
  2020   2019   
 Issued    Repurchased    Outstanding    Outstanding    
Balance at 1 January  181,425,000   8,976,245   172,448,755   175,650,575   
Changes:      
Reissue of shares in connection with  
share -based payment plans  -  (1,460,174)  1,460,174   3,395,405   
Repurchase of shares  -  2,876,035   (2,876,035)  (7,962,936)  
Dividend in the form of ordinary shares  -  (1,186,445)  1,186,445   1,365,711   
Balance at 31 December  181,425,000   9,205,661   172,219,339   172,448,755   
DSM share prices on Euronext Amsterdam  
(€ per ordinary share):      
- Highest closing price    148.55   117.90   
- Lowest closing price    87.52   69.54   
- At 31 December    140.80   116.10   
Market capitalization at 31 December (€ million)1   25,545   21,063   
1 Source: Bloomberg.  
  Information on the DSM share 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  171 Geographical spread of DSM shares outstanding 
in % (excl. cumprefs A)  2020  2019 
North America  39 39 
United Kingdom  16 17 
Netherlands  10 12 
France  12 11 
Germany  4 4 
Switzerland  5 4 
Nordic  6 5 
Asia Pacific  4 4 
Other countries  4 4 
DSM Share price development versus AEX and Dow Jones Euro StoXX Chemical Index  
rebased versus DSM share price  
in € 
Tra
ding volume ordinary DSM shares 2020  
x million shares as reported by Euronext Amsterdam01/20 02/20 03/20 04/20 05/20 06/20 07/20 08/20 09/20 10/20 11/20 12/20708090100110120130140150 DSM  AEX Index  Dow Jones Euro StoXX Chemical Index
January February March April May June July August September October November December051015202530Information on the DSM share 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  172 Article 10 of Directive 2004/25  
With regard to the information referred to in the Resolution of article 10  of the EC Directive  pertaining to a takeover bid 
which is required to be provided according to Dutch law, the following can be reported:  
-Information on major shareholdings  can be found above  (Distribution of shares)
-There are no special statutory rights  attached to the shares of the company
-There are no restrictions  on the voting rights  of the company ’s shares. When convening a General Meeting of
Shareholders, the Managing Board is entitled to determine a registration date in accordance with the relevant
provisions of the Dut ch Civil Code
-The applicable provisions  regarding the appointment and dismissal  of members of the Managing Board and the
Supervisory Board and amendments to the Articles of Association can be found in the section  Corporate governance
and risk management
-The powers  of the Managing Board  regarding the issue and repurchase of shares in the company can be found in
the sections Issue of shares and Repurchase of own shares above
-Other information can be found in the 'Notes to the consolidated financial statements ' (16 Equity , 19 Borrowings , 27
Share -based compensation )
Dividend on ordinary shares  
DSM's dividend policy  is to provide a stable and preferably rising dividend. DSM proposes to keep the total dividend on 
ordinary shares unchanged at €2.40 per ordinary sh are for 2020.  
This will be proposed to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders to be held on 6 May 2021. An interim dividend  of 
€0.80 per ordinary share having been paid in August 2020, the final dividend would then amount to €1.60 per ordinary share.  
The dividend will be payable in cash  or in the form of ordinary shares  at the option of the shareholder, with a maximum 
of 40% of the dividend amount available for stock dividend. If more than 40% of the total dividend is requested by the shareholders to be  paid out in shares, those shareholders who have chosen to receive their dividend in shares will receive 
their stock dividend on a pro -rata basis, the remainder being paid out in cash. Dividend in cash will be paid after deduction 
of 15% Dutch dividend wit hholding tax. The ex -dividend date is 10 May 2021.  
Dividend per ordinary DSM share in €  
2020 dividend is subject to approval by Annual General Meeting of Shareholders
1.451.501.65 1.65 1.651.751.852.302.40 2.40
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 20200123Information on the DSM share 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  173 Dividend on Cumulative Preference Shares A  
The cumulative preference shares A  are, in accordance with article 32, section 3, of the Articles of Association, entitled to 
a dividend for the financial year 2020 which is equivalent to the dividend yield of the ordinary shares over 2020, which will  
be — if the dividend proposal on ordin ary shares will be adopted by the AGM on 6 May 2021 — about 1.94%. This percentage 
may be increased or decreased by a mark -up or discount of no more than one hundred (100) basis points, to be 
determined by the Managing Board in consultation with the Superv isory Board.  
The Managing Board in consultation with the Supervisory Board has decided to use the maximum mark -up within their 
discretionary option (100 basis points) and to set the dividend percentage  on the Cumulative Preference Shares A at 2.94% 
(2019:  3.26%).  
As the basis for the computation of the dividend on the Preference Shares A amounts to €5.2942 per share, the total 
dividend  for 2020 equals to € 0.1556 per share . 
An interim dividend  of €0.06 per Cumulative Preference Share A having been paid in August 2020, the final dividend thus 
amounts to €0.0956 per Cumulative Preference Share A.  
Bearer shares  
On 27 April 2006, all bearer shares  (‘aandelen aan toonder ’) in DSM ’s issued share capital were converted into registered 
shares  (‘aandelen op naam ’) (pursuant to an amendment of the Articles of Association made at the time). In order to 
exercise the rights vested in the shares, holders of former bearer shares were required to hand in their bearer share 
certificates ( ‘aandeelbewijzen ’) to DSM.  
Pursuant t o an amendment of Section 2:82 of the Dutch Civil Code (DCC) in 2019, DSM shareholders who still have not 
handed in their bearer share certificates  will lose any entitlement to exchange their bearer share certificates for a 
replacement share as per 2 Janua ry 2026.  
In accordance with Section 2:391(2) DCC, DSM hereby gives notice of the following:  
(i) A shareholder may not exercise the rights vested in a share until after he/she has handed in his/her bearer sharecertificates to DSM.
(ii) A bearer share certificate which w as not handed in to DSM on or before 31 December 2020 has  become void and the
share represented by the bearer share certificate have been  acquired by DSM for no consideration, irrespective of whether
DSM's Articles of  Association allow the acquisition of its own shares. Section 2:98a (3) DCC does not apply to this
acquisition. DSM shall be registered as the shareholder thereof in DSM ’s shareholders register. DSM shall hold the shares
until the end of the period mention ed in (iii) below.
(iii) A shareholder who hands in a bearer share certificate to DSM no later than five years after the acquisition mentioned
in (ii) above, therefore no later than 1 January 2026, is entitled to receive from DSM a replacement registered s hare
provided that this share is registered in DSM’s shareholders register in the name of a central securities depository, andDSM will instruct the shareholder’s bank to credit the share in a securities account in the name of holder of the bearershare certificate.
The procedure described above follows from Section 2:82(3) up to and including (9) DCC, whose provisions apply.   
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  174  Sustainability statements  
Sustainability statements – People  
 2020   2019  2018  2017  2016  
Workforce1 2 23,127   22,174   20,977   21,054   20,786   
Female:male ratio  29:71   28:72    28:72    27:73   27:73   
.      
% by age category       
<26 years3 5  5  5  6  6  
26–35 years  26  26  25  26  25  
36–45 years  29  29  30  28  28  
46–55 years  25  25  26  25  27  
>55 15  15  14  15  14  
% under -represented nationalities       
Executives  30  31  31  - - 
Management  42  44  43  - - 
Other  58  59  59  - - 
% female       
Executives  21  20  19  17  15  
Management  30  29  28  27  26  
Other  29  28  28  28  29  
% executive hires       
Under -represented nationalities  65  55  61  - - 
Female  26  32  61  43  13  
% new hires by region       
Netherlands  11  11  13  11  5  
Rest of Europe  25  24  22  26  23  
North America  19  22  25  20  27  
China  15  18  16  16  20  
Rest of Asia –Pacific  11  12  9  11  8  
Rest of the world  19  13  15  15  17  
.      
Total number new hires (excluding acquisitions)  1,729  2,372   3,005   2,203   1,730   
Acquisitions  1,539   1,161  80  247  46  
.      
Outflow of employees        
Voluntary resignations  1,052   1,118  1,098   766  585  
Total outflow (excluding divestments)  2,336   2,352   2,868   1,943   1,729  
Divestments   -  357  42  57  
Voluntary resignations (% total workforce)  4.8  5.4  5.3  4.1  2.8  
Total turnover (% total workforce)  10.6  11.2  13.9  10.2  8.3  
.      
Development training in hours per employee  6  8.1  64     
Net sales per employee (x €1,000)  4145   421  4296   420  386  
.      
Safety       
Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries (per 100 DSM employees and 
contractor employees)  0.24  0.28  0.33  0.36  0.33  
1 All data presented in the Sustainability Statements  are subject to the non -financial reporting policy . 
2 For the indexes based on age, nationalities, gender, inflow and outflow, the companies that are not integrated into the HR sy stems 
(approximately 5% of  the total workforce) are not taken into account.  
3 We do not employ people younger than 15 under DSM contract. We require our suppliers to not use forced labor or child labor 
according to our Supplier Code of Conduct.  
4 In 2018, development training hours per employee were measured using a new standard with stricter definitions. Figures of previous years cannot be recalculated according to the new definitions, which means there are no relevant figures available for previo us years.  
5 Net sales per employee is for total DSM (= continuing  and discontinued operations).  
6 Excluding the temporary vitamin effect in 2018, see 
Profit  in Integrated Annual Report 2019 . Sustainability statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  175  Sustainabili ty statements – Brighter Living Solutions  
 2020   2019  2018  2017  2016  
Brighter Living Solutions sales as % of net sales1 632 63  623   62  63 
1 All data presented in the Sustainability Statements are subject to the non -financial reporting policy . 
2 For a small percentage of sales (less than 0.6% of sales) classified as BLS, the environmental impact is considered 'best in class' 
together with other solutions.  
3 Excluding the temporary vitamin effect in 2018, see Profit  in Integrated An nual Report 2019 . 
Sustainability statements − Planet  
 2020   2019  2018  2017  2016  
Energy and greenhouse gas1      
Primary energy use (in PJ)  21.5  21.2  20.8  23.6  22.6  
Energy efficiency improvement (year -on-year)  5.7  2.3  1.4  0.7  2.0  
Greenhouse gas emissions scope 1 + 2, market -based  
(in CO 2 equivalents x million tons)  1.24  1.17  1.23  1.50   1.502 
Greenhouse gas emissions scope 1 + 2, location -based  
(in CO 2 equivalents x million tons)  1.43  1.38  1.38  1.57  1.50  
Total biogenic CO 2 emissions from combustion of biofuels  
(x million tons)  0.0463   - - - - 
Electricity purchased from renewable resources (%)  60  50  41  21  8  
Total purchased renewable electricity (GWh)  748  632  446  229  79  
.      
Emissions to air       
Volatile Organic Compounds (x 1,000 tons)  3.5  2.7  4.9  6.6  8.9  
Nitrogen oxide (NO x) (x 1,000 tons)  0.3  0.4  0.5  0.7  0.8  
Sulfur dioxide (SO 2) (x 1,000 tons)  0.02  0.06  0.09  0.28  0.33  
.      
Discharges to water and landfill       
Chemical Oxygen Demand discharges to surface waters (x 1,000 tons)  2.0  2.1  2.2  2.5  2.4  
Waste recycled (in %)  85  86  83  84  83  
(Landfilling) Non -hazardous waste (x 1,000 tons)  17  15  18  16  18  
Total process -related waste (x 1,000 tons)  205  1924   177  - - 
.      
Water       
Total water withdrawal (x million m3) 108  111  114  114  104  
Water withdrawal for non -once -through cooling (x million m3) 24  23  22  23  22  
.      
Raw materials       
Renewable raw materials (in %)  15.2  14.7  14.3  15.4  16.5  
.      
Biodiversity       
Sites in or adjacent to protected areas (in %)  27  255   - - - 
.      
Fines (in €)  26,000   115,100   23,500   128,400   27,900   
Non-monetary sanctions  18  2  6  4  2  
Environmental incidents  79  60  71  101  109  
Environmental complaints  51  58  53  35  21  
1 All data presented in the Sustainability Statements  are subject to the non -financial reporting policy . 
2 The baseline emissions for our Science Based Targets (year: 2016) were recalculated to 1.65 due to the inclusion of eight acquired sites 
in the reporting scope.  
3 The total biogenic CO 2 emissions from combustion of biofuels is available as of 2020.  
4 The 2019 non- hazardous waste has been restated due to a correction in the calculations at one location. 
5 In 2019, Sites in or adjacent to protected areas was measured against a stricter definition. The figures of previous years co uld not be 
recalculated aga inst the stricter definition,  which means there are no relevant figures available for previous years.  Sustainability statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  176  Stakeholder engagement  
In the following pages, we present some examples of how we engage with external stakeholders, including the partners in 
our value chain. For an overview of all our stakeholders, see Stakeholders . For information on how we engage with our 
employees, see People . 
Customers  
Implementing our s trategy throughout our businesses where we enable, innovate and advocate on the three domains — 
Nutrition & Health, Climate & Energy , and Resources & Circularity — has allowed us to strengthen our relationship with 
our customers and increase our impact on the total eco- system. Our customers are key stakeholders, and the COVID -19 
pandemic in 2020 strengthened our relationship and intimacy with them . 
Customer loyalty and satisfaction  
Customer loyalty and satisfaction starts with understanding our customers, their needs and their journey when 
interacting with us. In our daily connections with our customers, the year gave us the opportunity to strengthen our relationships through the disruptions caused by COVID -19. Intrinsic needs substantially changed through 2020, especially 
using more 
digital means , enhanced with human care and collaboration . The care for and collaboration with our 
customers has made tremendous steps in our culture and technology capabilities, where customer loyalty and satisfaction are measured through the 
Net Promoter Sco re (NPS) methodology (both relational and transactional) — the voice of the 
customer. This enables us to continuously improve our product and service offering towards our customers.  
Our customers clearly indicated a need for  virtual collaboration and moder n ways of doing business  in fulfillment and 
innovation. Several steps were made to satisfy this need regarding Customer Experience offerings and technologies. 
Our Net Promotor Score continues to improve  
In 2020, our NPS improved to 50 (2019: 41) as a result of the strong collaboration  and strengthened relationships  
throughout the year. With this improvement, we have seen an increase of our overall NPS score for five consecutive years 
(2016: 38). Additiona lly, several business groups have implemented an automated survey process  to continuously measure  
customer satisfaction  during specific interactions throughout the year. This provides instant  performance feedback and 
new customer insights . Results are take n up in cross -functional meetings to drive the immediate optimization of 
processes and frontline staff interaction . Learnings from these initiatives are currently being applied to other business 
groups and will help us to further improve the overall custom er experience with DSM.  
Customer Led Innovation and lead generation  
DSM has made further steps up in Customer Led Innovation and lead generation. A stronger involvement in fundamental 
product and application innovation  of our (key) customers is already lea ding to a qualitative pipeline and success rate , 
while being pro -active in developing needs in key industries and customers. Through both a digital and offline  
synchronized  customer engineering journey  we attempt to increase speed and generate leads in str onger collaboration 
with our key partners. Customer feedback  enforced our desire to increase responsiveness and high ease of doing business 
along the full journey of considering, buying, applying and paying for our solutions.  
Brand value 
Our brand is an important business asset. We are a purpose -led, performance- driven company that aspires to provide 
innovative products and solutions that support our purpose to create brighter lives for all. In 2020, DSM’s Brand Value grew by 9.7% year on year . Our strong 
brand value  is attributed to a high brand strength , combined with a consistent business 
performance . Sustainability statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  177  Brand value1 
x € million  
 
1 As measured by the Brand Finance valuation methodology  
Customer Value Propositions  
We continuously sharpen our understanding of our customers’ needs and build them into our value propositions . We 
emphasize why our solutions enable our customers to satisfy the needs of the consumers they serve as well as enable 
them to succeed in the market, ensuring we match the evolving customer needs and customer value drivers . Our value 
propositions clarify what the benefits are for our customers and for others in the ecosystems that might benefit from our solutions. The value propositions also highlight how these solutions fit our purpose -led, performance-driven portfolio.  
Suppliers  
The DSM Sustainable Procurement Program  
Sustainability is at the heart of everything DSM does. Our Sustainable Procurement Program is instrumental in ensuring 
that we deliv er together with our suppliers on our promise to reduce our environmental footprint and improve the lives 
for people today and generations to come through our activities, products and innovations.  
Our Sustainable Procurement Program is comprised of three elements:  
- Supplier development and evaluation program , where we focus on assessing, auditing and further improving our 
suppliers’ sustainability performance by actively developing and following up on corrective actions  
- Our Scope 2 program  on reducing greenhouse gas emissions from purchased electricity  
- Our Scope 3 program  on reducing greenhouse gas emissions throughout our value chain, where we are working 
together with our suppliers on our collective carbon footprint and emissions  
 
Since 2020, in addition to renewable electricity, procurement is working to enable a sustainable decarbonization  of heat  
via renewable fuels . 
Supplier Sustainability Evaluation  
 2020   2019  
Spend coverage SCoC  93%   95%   
EcoVadis assessments  351  322  
Together for Sustainability audits  14  15  650807844901989
2016 2017 2018 2019 202002004006008001000Sustainability statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  178  Supplier Code of Conduct  
The business principles  most relevant for the supply chain  are brought together in the Supplier Code of Conduct  (SCoC) 
and structured along the three sustainability dimensions of People, Planet and Profit. The Supplier Code of Conduct 
(available on the DSM Supplier w ebsite  in eight languages ) forms the basis on how we choose to do business and interact 
with our suppliers. In 2020, 93% of our supp lier spend was covered by the SCoC versus our target level of 95%. Through 
Together for Sustainability assessments and audits , we check that supplier s act in compliance  with our norms and values . 
When suppliers  cannot meet our expectations, we will work with them to define and execute an improvement plan .  
Assessing sustainability in our supply chain  
At DSM, we understand that connecting across complex  value chains  is not easy. This is why we are a member of the 
Together for Sustainability (TfS) initiative. TfS aims to develop and implement a global supplier engagement program  that 
assesses and improves sustainability practices  on both environmental and  social aspects. More information about this 
program can be found on our website .  
In 2020, despite the COVID -19 pandemic and the focus needed to manage the val ue chain by DSM and our suppliers, we 
continued our focus on driving improvement to support  sustainability development in the value chain . We assessed 351 
suppliers in 2020 through TfS, of which 318 were re -assessments. 60%  of our re -assessed suppliers rec eived an improved 
sustainability score, compared to 57% last year, which indicates that  our suppliers are further engaging in sustainability.  
TfS site audits were impacted by contact and travel restrictions throughout the year. As a consequence, we looked  for new 
ways to conduct audits, and DSM took the lead through TfS to pilot its  first virtual audit . The virtual audit used technology 
to conduct the audit, assessment, inspection and oversight from a remote location. This allowed us to proceed with the audit of the supplier as well as 
practice and evaluate  virtual audits for the future.  
Capabilities to enhance sustainability  
The year also saw the TfS community gathered  at the TfS Annual Workshop , attended by nearly 130 working members. The 
virtual gathering came at a pivotal time in TfS’s history with the launch of the TfS Grow & Deliver  strategy, delivering the 
strategic roadmap 2020 –2025 for how to make global chemical supply chains  more sustain able. During the workshop, we 
had the opportunity to share our journey of Sustainable Procurement  in a panel discussion in which we shared our 
approach, successes and hurdles of integrating sustainability  into our procurement processes.  
Furthermore, TfS or ganized a featured supplier training  for Chinese petrochemical companies at the 2020 China 
Petroleum and Chemical International Conference in Nanjing. As an active TfS member, we led the organization of this year’s training with the support of one other me mber company. About 500 participants including suppliers, TfS members 
and industry organization representatives were present. The training focused on how to build a 
sustainable chemical 
supply chain  and the specific requirements for chemical companies. It also offered an opportunity for suppliers to obtain 
a more in -depth understanding of what is required in a TfS assessment and audit.  
Further training in sustainability was provided to our procurement community. Three trainings were offered with practical 
tools on integrating sustainability  into the daily work of Procurement professionals, specifically on s ustainable 
procurement, Together for Sustainability assessments and audits, and scope 3 . These trainings aim to equip our 
colleagues with the knowledge a nd information to engage in the relevant sustainability conversations with our suppliers.  
Stakeholder engagement  
A strong, sustainable — and circular — value chain is only as strong as its weakest link. In addition to working with our 
suppliers, we also work with external partners to enhance collaboration in the supply chain . These partners include 
Roundtable for Sus tainable Palm Oil (RSPO), Friends of the Sea, the Marine Stewardship Council and Together for 
Sustainability (TfS).  
Taking steps toward sustainable palm oil derivatives  
We are actively taking steps to reduce deforestation  by sourcing ingredients like palm oil derivatives  in a more 
sustainable way. For example, we are a member of the  RSPO  — a not -for-profit, multi -stakeholder organization aimed at 
making sustainable palm oil  the market norm. We aim to have RSPO certification for all of our major production sites that 
use palm oil derivatives. Through our business group DSM Nutritional Prod ucts, we are a member of RSPO. DSM Food Sustainability statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  179  Specialties and DSM Nutritional Products met their objective to use 100% RSPO certified sustainable palm oil products 
using RSPO ‘ Mass Balance’  supply chain models by 2020.  
Responsibly sourced marine resources 
Prote cting our marine environment is important to us as a company. We are committed to the responsible and sustainable 
use of natural marine resources . We have Friends of the Sea  certification for all our fish oil  purchases. This helps ensure 
that the fisheries  involved in providing fish oil for the production of our omega- 3 product range are sustainable. 
Furthermore, we successfully attained 100% Marine Stewardship Council  (MSC) certification for all our tuna oil suppliers 
in 2020. We are proud to partner with the MSC, the global gold standard for certification and eco- labeling of seafood, to 
offer MEG -3® tuna DHA oils and powders that are MSC Chain of Custody (CoC) certified. This certification guarantees ‘ ocean 
to purchase ’ traceability throughout the entire s upply chain, providing assurance that our tuna DHA products can be easily 
traced to certified fisheries.  
Supplier projects  
As part of our drive to foster better business through our supplier projects , our procurement organization engages in 
proactive dialo gue with suppliers in order to move the business agenda forward in our F ocus Domains of Nutrition & 
Health, Climate & Energy , and Resources & Circularity.  In this context, DSM Sourcing pursues initiatives to create joint 
value, awareness and engagement in  innovation, greenhouse gas  emissions reduction  and renewable electricity 
projects . 
Supplier Enabled Innovation projects  
Every day we work with our suppliers on new ideas, product innovations, and solutions to many business and societal problems. We want to work with partners that share our purpose of creating brighter lives for all. This involves challenging ourselves with fresh thinking that can add real value to what our customers need, to what our market needs, and ultimately to what society needs. To drive sustainability in our value chain, we work together with our innovative partners to 
recycle and reuse carbon fibers  in our engineering materials. In the field of Animal Nutrition, moreover, we are 
collaborating with a leading industry supplier to develop animal diets  that have improved production efficiency and 
reduce environmental impact.   
Scope 3 projects on reducing greenhouse gas emissions  
As one of the first in the industry in Europe, our location in Grenzach (Germany) switched from conventionally produced 
energy to  green hydrogen  in February 2020. Using green hydrogen in our vitamin production shows our strong 
comm itment to support the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Steam reforming  of natural gas remains the most 
important method of producing commercial bulk hydrogen. However, this also results in about 12 tons of carbon dioxide per ton of hydrogen. Green hydrogen, on the other hand, is generated by 
electrolysis  powered by  sustainable 
hydroelectricity — without any greenhouse gas emissions. The green hydrogen is used in Grenzach as synthesis gas for 
vitamin production. This project is an excellent example of a site implementing our sustainability strategy and leading the way in setting new industry standards and creating new supplies of green energy locally.  
The Global Logistics and Packaging team has been connecting with other shippers and industry bodies to advocate sustainability in the 
international transport  market. Together, we have formed the BICEPS Network, a network with the aim 
to reduce CO 2 emissions of the carriers. This has led to an internationally verified rating system  that provides an 
industry -recognized sustainability ranking of shipping lines and enables us to reward sustainable behavior.  
Investors 
We value the essential contribution  our capital providers make to our success and prosperity, allowing us to pursue a 
long -term oriented, value -creating strategy. This should also lead to a continuous increase of the company ’s valuation 
for the benefit of its shareholders and provide a low risk profile for our debt holders.  
Transparent communication with financial markets  
We ensure that accurate fina ncial and relevant non -financial information is communicated to the financial markets in a 
transparent and simultaneous  way. All information is made easily accessible to the public via the company website. 
Besides  the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders , we also reach out to the financial markets through events like our  Sustainability statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  180  Investor Days, participation in  (virtual) investor conferences and by organizing  roadshows . We actively seek engagement 
with financial advisors  who cover DSM on behalf of their financial market clients, such as brokers, credit rating agencies, 
proxy advisors, shareholder representative organizations, and ESG (Environment, Social, Governance) rating agencies.  
Feedback from the financial markets  is periodically discussed and assessed by the Managing Board and the Supervisory 
Board. We highly value the insights gained through these engagements.  
We engage with our investors and their representatives on topics such as the SDGs, climate change, governa nce, 
sustainability in supply chain management, natural and social capital, and responsible taxation.  
Updating investors on our strategic progress  
During 2020, we continued to update the market on our progress against our  strategic targets as well as the  sustainability 
ambitions  and our progress with the large sustainability -driven innovation projects . We provided updates through 
quarterly conference calls and at various roadshows covering all large investor cities, as well as in conferences, visits fro m 
investors and by many telephone and video calls. Due to COVID -19, the financial markets were impacted by uncertainty in 
the year . DSM intensified the direct virtual contacts with its investors in order to keep them all informed about how DSM 
has been managin g COVID -19 and its impact. Our investor day in November was organized live, in a fully virtual venue.  
Engaging with the market on purpose and ESG  
Purpose and profit go hand in hand  at DSM, which has been demonstrated by a continuing strong performance on both 
financial and non- financial metrics. In 2020, we actively advocated  purpose -driven entrepreneurship  among our 
shareholders. We engaged with investors, including pension funds , to discuss their responsibility in long -term value 
creation for their customers, but also for the society and the environment their participants live in. We actively participated 
in various impact investment initiatives including De Nederlandsche Bank (DNB) working group on SDG Impact 
Measurement and the WBCSD . 
We engaged with FCLT ( Focusing Capital to the Long Term ), which works to encourage a longer -term focus in business and 
investment decision  making and whose mission is to motivate business leaders to actively combat short -termism in our 
financial markets. Our engagement with  FCLT emphasizes the need for including non-financial long -term metrics 
(environmental, societal and governance related) in the investment decisions of investors.  In particular, we emphasize the 
need to make the metrics  uniform, comparable and auditable . 
We further stepped up our engagement with leading ESG Ratings and Benchmarks  advisors to the financial sector, 
including  Sustainalytics, MSCI, Vigeo -Eiris and ISS -ESG.  
In 2020, we saw an increased focus in our  engagement dialogues on  social elements  including human rights, diversity and 
inclusion. 
We also saw the number of direct engagements between investors and DSM  on ESG topics, including SDG impact, 
substantially increase in 2020. ESG has become part of the  regular agenda of the investor meetings and is no longer a topic 
solely for  the sustainability specialists. Being recognized as a leader in sustainability and at the same tim e showing 
continued good financial progress, we were frequently invited for in-depth engagement calls  and meetings on how to 
include — and compare — important non -financial parameters in their investment processes.  
At the e nd of 2020, 53% of our shares hel d by institutional investors were held by signatories of the Principles for 
Responsible Investment  (PRI investors) and 9% of our outstanding shares at institutional investors were in dedicated 
sustainability funds . 
  Sustainability statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  181  Society 
We engage with society at multiple levels – from local community initiatives to collaborations with universities and 
research institutes. We work with NGOs and civil society to develop solutions for societal issues, and advocate with 
governments and society on important issues relating to the Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Agreement. We also engage in philanthropic and sponsorship activities to the average yearly amount of approximately €6 million.  
Engaging on education and nutrition in Brazil  
We continued our support of a number of educational initiatives. We also increased our partnership with Gastromotiva , 
sponsoring nutritionally fortified meals in poor communities. Our Tortuga Institute  reached 22 institutions in Brazil, 
Colombia, Costa Rica and Peru with food, hygiene, protection and cleaning items.  
Collaborating on research and education in China  
We continued our collaboration with universities and institutes such as the Institute of Chinese Academy of Science  on 
application formulations f or vitamins, the Peking University  on polymer physics, Shanghai Jiaotong University  on 
composite processing and Xián Jiaotong University  on polymer flowability. We continued our program with the DSM Hope 
School , providing scholarships, laptops, and a heat pump to give students access to hot water.  
Awareness of women’s health in India  
We launched Project Streedhan . ‘Streedhan’ refers to the wealth to which a woman has an absolute right under Hindu law. 
This campaign aims to create awareness of the link between nutrition and immunity . It encourages women to invest in 
their health (their real ‘wealth’) through immunity -building foods. The campaign has already been viewed more than 10 
million times.  
Nutrition for the workforce and in an aging society in Japan  
We organized a Health Academy with customers and media  to communicate the importance of nutrition in an aging 
society. DSM Japan is also collaborating with the Nutrition Japan Public Private Platform , co-chaired by the Ministry of 
Foreign Affairs and the Min istry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing, on workforce nutrition improvement . After proving the 
concept for fortified rice in Cambodia, the next project will focus on Myanmar.  
Celebrating Chemistry and highlighting healthy food in the Netherlands  
The Brightlands Campus  in Geleen (Netherlands) hosted the Feel the Chemistry Festival , celebrating 80 years of science 
and innovation in the area. Today, it  is an innovation campus that is ready to meet the challenges of the future and is 
developing the first ‘ Circular Hub ’ in Europe . DSM co -hosted the two -day virtual event ‘ Bold Actions for Food as a Force 
for Good’ , building up to the UN Food Systems Summit  to be held in New York in 2021. The event featured more than 300 
organizations including government, farme rs, private companies, young people and scientists.  
Addressing food waste and rubbish in the Rhine Valley region  
In Switzerland and the Rhine Valley, we participated in the 50th Earth Day  with local start -up ‘Ugly Fruits’  on the need to 
combat food loss and waste and avoid overconsumption, as well as  plastic waste reduction and perceptions on fruit and 
expected shelf life. In September , we took part in the World Clean Up Day  with the motto “ DSM Rhine Valley  – Clean Up 
for Brighter Living”. Colleagues from across the region cleaned up an area in Basel of rubbish and other discarded items.  
Supporting education and engaging on climate in the US  
We continued our support of the Union County College Foundation Close the Gap  initiative, which provides scholarships 
to African American students. We also continued to underwrite the costs of two Fellows with the Global Health Corps . We 
led a group of 330 business leaders organized by Ceres  in a virtual engagement with Senators and Congres smen on climate 
legislation. DSM North America is one of the 21 members of the CEO Climate Dialogue  and cofounder of the Climate 
Solutions Working Group . 
  Sustainability statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  182  Management approach  for material topics  
In the following sections , we elaborate on the material topics defined in the Materiality matrix  and describe how we 
manage these topics.  
Environment  
Climate & Energy  
This topic addresses our own  climate impacts in terms of greenhouse gas emissions, as well as developing and providing 
sustainable solutions that help others avoid emissions. This also includes our  ability to mitigate and  seize climate risks 
and opportunities, and to ensure operational  resilience.  
Management approach : Climate & Energy is a Focus Domain of DSM, and we manage this topic by improving our own 
carbon footprint, enabling our customers through innovative solutions and advocating actions toward a low -carbon future. 
This supports our efforts to manage the physical and transitional opportunities and risks r elating to climate change 
mitigation and adaptation. We publicly disclose our impact and strategy via this Report, CDP and others.  
For information on this topic, see: 
Our approach to the Sustainable Development Goals  
Strategy  
Collaborative platforms and networks  
Climate & Energy  
Review of business  
Resources & Circularity  
Resources & Circularity refer to reducing the demand of sourcing from finite resources, and carefully managing the use of 
renewable natural resources in order to minimize stress on the environment. A transition to a circular economy, addressing closed -loop  solutions with a focus on renewable and bio- based and recycled -based materials, is key to 
meeting the needs of current and future generations.  
Management approach : Resources & Circularity is a F ocus Domain of DSM, and we manage this topic by improving the 
value extracted from the limited resources that are available, enabling the transition to a circular and bio- based economy 
through our solutions and advocating a shift away from a linear to a circular and bio- based economy.  
For information on  this topic, see:  
Our approach to the Sustainable Development Goals
 
Strategy  
Collaborative platforms and networks  
Resources & Circularity  
Planet  
Review of business  
Nature & b iodiversity 
Nature & biodiversity refers to the protection of natural capital and ecosystems, including the variety and variability of 
life on earth and addressing issues such as land degradation, nature loss and ocean pollution.  
Management approach : Nature & b iodiversity is a global issue that is locally relevant , and that potentially  has impact  on 
our operational loc ations. The DSM Responsible Care Plan defines how we monitor and assess the impact of our 
operations on these locations. We support the ambitions of the Convention on Biological Diversity and we continue to 
explore the role the Natural Capital Protocol can  play in supporting our decision making. Our position paper on 
Biodiversity can be found on the company website.  Sustainability statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  183  For information on this topic, see: 
Nature & biodiversity  
Biodiversity position paper  
Water security  
Water is essential to life and all ecosystems. As water is becoming a scarcer resource, both the quality and quantity of 
available water constitute a global issue that has local consequences  that may extend  from water scarcity to floods and 
storms.   
Management approach : We are committed to the sustainable  use of water. Our approach is defined in the DSM 
Respo nsible Care Plan  and we aim to define contextual water reduction targets . Water is not a primary ingredient in our 
products, and w e believe that water risks are local by nature, so we focus on local water risk assessments and thorough 
follow -up on these. W e are a signatory to the UN Global Compact CEO Water Mandate and disclose our water management 
and strategy via CDP.  
For information on this topic, see: 
Water security  
Social 
Nutrition & Health  
This topic refers to the transition to sustainable food systems within planetary boundaries that is needed to secure the 
future availability of food. An increasing global population and the impact of climate change will put greater strain on our ability to provide sufficient food t hat is also nutritionally complete — addressing issues including malnutrition, non -
communicable diseases and obesity.  
Management approach : Nutrition & Health is a F ocus Domain of DSM, and we manage this topic by improving the health of 
our own workforce,  and enabling healthy food systems through our Nutrition businesses, which target health and well -
being, and our Biomedical business, which helps improve health outcomes for surgical patients. . We advocate for a change 
in food systems within planetary bounda ries. 
For information on this topic, see: 
Our approach to the Sustainable Development Goals
 
Strategy  
Collaborative platforms & networks  
Review of business  
Leadership & development  
This topic refers to the continuous development of employees ’ skills through training and development programs, and 
the company ’s ability to generate commitment among employees to the organization and its goals.  
Management approach : Leadership & development fuels the growth of our employees and leaders, which in turn enable s 
our overall growth as an organization. Through  our People & Organization strategy , we aim to reset the context for 
leadership to create an inspiring, empowering and inclusive environment for our people and our business.  
For information on this topic, see: Delivering on our P&O strategy
 
Our new People & Organization strategy  Sustainability statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  184  Occupational health & safety  
Occupational health & safety addresses the company’ s ability to create and maintain a safe and healthy workplace 
environment that is free of injuries, fatalities, and illness (both chronic and acute).  
Management approach : The occupational health , safety and well -being of all our employees and contractors is our highest 
priority. Our approach to safety is defined in the DSM Responsible Care Plan and is spearheaded by our  Life Saving Rules. 
We apply an occupational health model based on prevention, primary care and promotion to support employee health.  
For information on this topic, see: 
Safety, health & well -being  
Labor practices & human rights  
This topic encompasses decent working conditions for DSM employees, suppliers and other partners across the value 
chain. It addresses subjects including freedom of association, non -discrimination, the prohibition of child labor and 
forced labo r, and fair compensation.  
Management approach : DSM has installed a cross-functional Human Rights Steering Committee and working group to 
manage our approach toward human rights , which is defined in our position paper. Our whistleblower policy (DSM Alert) is 
available for employees and external stakeholders to report potential violations of human rights.  
For information on this topic, see: 
Human rights  
DSM Code of Business Conduct  
Suppliers  
Human Rights position paper  
Whistleblower policy – DSM Alert  
Internationalization & diversity  
This topic revolves around equal opportunities, in particular ensuring that our company culture and hiring and promotion 
practices embrace the building of a diverse and inclusive workforce that reflects the makeup of local talent pools and its 
customer base . 
Management approach : We focus our activities on increasing the representation of women and the nationality diversity of 
our executive population and management pipeline. In addition to gender and internationalization, we include the focus 
areas of disability, generations and LGBTQ+. These areas are supported by Employee Resource Groups: BLEND (race, ethnicity and national identity) , Generations (age), Rainbow (LGBTQ+) , Valuable (disability)  and WIN (women and gender ). 
For information on this topic, see: Inclusion & Diversity
 
Delivering on our P&O strategy  
Business & Governance  
Innovation  
This topic refers to the company ’s technology capabilities and research & development investments to develop 
innovative, sustainable solutions.  
Management approach : Our innovation and research & development capabilities support us in achieving our growth 
targets. Through collaborations and partnerships, we bring new thinking and new solutions into the company. Through our venturing activities, we invest in emerging innovative companies around the world.  Sustainability statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  185  For information on this topic, see: 
Innovation Center  
Business ethics & transparency  
This topic addresses the company ’s approach to and public disclosure on ethical an d fair business conduct, corporate 
governance and compliance. This includes taxation, privacy, bioethics, fraud, bribery & corruption , and fiduciary 
responsibilities.  
Management approach : We take our responsibilities as a business seriously. Our approach t o ethics and transparency is 
led by the DSM Code of Business Conduct and our Supplier Code of Conduct. DSM ’s tax position is consistent with the 
normal course of our business operations and reflects the corporate strategy as well as the geographic spread of our activities. It is available through our position paper. We transparently report on our business through this Report and our public statements.  
For information on this topic, see: DSM Code of Business Conduct
 
Corporate governance and risk management  
Taxation position paper  
Geopolitical shifts & (trade) dynamics  
This  topic refers to geopolitical shifts and dynamics such as political tensions and inequalities. It also includes the 
impact of trade policies and barriers.  
Management approach : Through our partnerships and stakeholder engagement activities, we monitor topic s relevant to 
our business. We identify risks and mitigating actions through our risk management approach , and apply standard business 
processes and practices to manage trade control compliance.  
For information on this topic, see: Collaborative platforms and networks
 
DSM Code of Business Conduct  
Risk management  
Advocacy, engagement & partnering  
Engagement with our stakeholders is essential.  Through these engagements, we share insights on relevant issues that 
arise from , and impact on,  our business activities. Multi -stakeholder collaboration is essential for the achievement of the 
Sustainable Development Goals, in particular in developing countries through the development of suitable products and 
processes.  
Management approach : We engage with our stakeholders to help define the topics that are material to our business and 
our reporting. We collaborate in platforms and networks that contribute to our purpose and align with our F ocus Domains 
of Nutrition & Health, Climate & Energy , and Resources & Circularity.  
For information on this topic, see: 
Stakeholders  
Stakeholder engagement  
Cybersecurity  
Preventing fraud and the unauthorized access to our networks, IT systems and data, while ensuring company and 
employee data protection.  Sustainability statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  186  Management approach : Cybersecurity is managed by Operations & Responsible Care. Awareness on cybersecurity is 
addressed through the Security e-learning covering our key security behaviors and the Cyber Fraud Awareness e- learning. 
Global, as well as targeted, phishing tests are regularly carried out to ensure our people stay alert.  
For infor mation on this topic, see: 
Sustainability Governance Framework  
DSM Code of Business Conduct  
Digital transformation  
Digital transformation refers to the application of digital technologies to all aspects of business and society.  
Management approach : Our Data Analytics Center of Excellence and Digital Acceleration Group will support us in the 
acceleration of digital insights and solutions. Digital solutions also support an d strengthen our customer relationships. We 
monitor and mitigate potential risks relating to digital through Group Risk Management. Our Information Security Office 
and Privacy Policy guide our approach toward the security of information assets.  
For informa tion on this topic, see: 
People  
Risk management  
Customers  
Product stewardship  
Product stewardship addresses the incorporation of sustainability factors in characteristics of products provided by the 
company. It covers managing the lifecycle impacts of products along the value chain, such as sourcing, packaging, 
distribution, use -phase resource efficiency, and other environmental and social externalities.  
Management approach : Our product stewardship statement describes our approach on this topic. We assess our products 
and are committed to have  an action plan in place for substances of very high concern  by the end of 2020 . We take a risk -
based approach to prod uct stewardship and will use alternatives where feasible, and always where required. We also see 
the opportunities for safer products with fewer or no hazardous properties in the circular economy.  
For information on this topic, see: 
Product stewardship  
Product stewardship on the company website  
Consumer behavior & activism  
Addressing changes in consumer behavior and awareness by manufacturing products that consider future needs of 
society and the environment.  
Management approach : Consumer behavior & activism can be both a risk and an opportunity to the company. We 
recognize shifts in business models, industry a nd end -consumer behavior, and the ability to respond to changes in our 
emerging risks. We have shifted our innovation approach to be platform based, and have identified seven growth themes 
that align to our future strategic needs and support our growth ambitions. These themes align to major global societal, technological and environmental trends.  
For information on this topic, see: Innovation strategy
 
Innovation  
Risk management  Sustainability statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  187  Taskforce on  Climate -related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
The TCFD recommendations are a set of voluntary, climate -related financial disclosures  for use by companies to provide 
information to their stakeholders. We were among the first companies to commit to implementing, as fully as practicable, 
these recommendations as outlined in the TCFD's implementation path. The recommendations are structured around four elements ‒ 
Governance , Strategy , Risk Manage ment, and Metrics and Targets . This Report includes various disclosures 
relevant for the TCFD recommendations. To highlight this, for each TCFD theme reference is made to relevant sections. 
Governan ce 
Sustainability, including climate -related risks & opportunities, is a direct responsibility of the Managing Board . The 
Managing Board is supported in this by advice from our external Sustainability  Advisory Board and reports on progress to 
the Supervisory Board, via its Sustainability Committee . 
Our approach toward assessing and managing climate- related risks and opportunities is steered by our climate action 
agenda , containing key actions and deliverables that are owned by members of the Managing Board and Executive 
Committee. The Responsible Care Plan  and our greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction program  translate the climate action 
agenda into concrete operational programs managed by Operations & Responsible Care, Sourcing and business management. All of these are regularly discussed and reviewed  during the MB/EC meetings.  
Strategy  
DSM has recognized climate change  as a global megatrend for more than a decade. A changing climate, and related 
adaptation and mitigation efforts, will impact our company directly on our operations and indirectly, via shifts in our value chains and end -markets. This poses a risk to some of our current business while providing ample opportunities for growth.  
Our portfolio and innovations seek to offer solutions to address changes coming from the shift to a low- carbon society. For 
example, we address transition risks through innovations such as methane -reducing ruminant solution Bovaer®  and plant -
based proteins such as CanolaPRO®, as well as bio -based Dyneema® , which has a reduced carbon footprint through 
switching to a bio -based raw material.  
We are reducing our exposure to transition risks like carbon pricing and changing legislation through actively reducing GHG 
emissions  from our own operations and in our value chain. Projects  to underpin our Science Based Targets and ‘net zero 
by 2050‘ commitment are ongoing.  
We believe that the implementation of our business strategy and delivery upon our GHG targets are an integral part of our resilience toward transition risks. We are piloting an approach to transition risk assessments
 against three scenarios to 
further stress -test this resilience.  
We conducted an initial mapping  of the exposure of our top 30 sites to test our physical resilience. The assessment was 
based on three scenarios (in line with our transition risk approach), two time horizons and five hazards. Further validation with the sites in que stion is underway and the assessment is currently also expanded to our value chain.  
Risk Management  
Climate -related risks are integrated into our regular risk management practices . As such, climate -related risks were 
identified both in top -down Corporate Risk Assessment process and the bottom up Letter of Representation process.  
The outcome of these processes was climate- related risks being reported as ‘Emerging risk 2’ (Physical climate risks) and 
‘Emerging risk 3’ (Transition climate risks). Several mitigating actions are coordinated at company level, such as the GHG reduction program and the CO2REDUCE supplier engagement program
, where others remain the responsibility of the units .  
To further standardize and improve our risk assessments, the approach of using multiple scenarios for physical and transition climate -risk assessments will be rolled out across the company. This will enable us to improve our disclosure of 
climate -relate d risk exposure and the relevant mitigating activities.  Sustainability statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  188 Targets and Metrics  
We r
eport our climate -related metrics and targets via this Report  and the company website. Our Science Based Targets 
(SBT) are our k ey environmental targets within the Responsible Care Plan , supported by supplementary targets and 
programs. These targets are also the foundation toward our ‘net zero by 2050’ goal. Furthermore, we also repor t on avoided 
emissions, water, waste and other emissions.  
We apply a carbon price  of €50/t CO 2eq in our large investment decisions and in the Profit & Loss statements of the 
business groups for internal man agement reporting. We require all business growth projects to be carbon neutral, or else 
compensated for in the same business.  
Climate -related metrics form part of the Long -Term Incentives of the Managing Board  and executives . 
SASB and WEF IBC mapping  
We map our disclosures to other standards and frameworks to support our stakeholders who are using these. You can find 
how our disclosures map to the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board ’s Chemicals Standard and the WEF IBC  
Stakeholder Capitalism metr ics and disclosures below. SASB disclosures that are considered ‘not material’ have been 
omitted from the table.  
Topic  Reference  Location and WEF IBC notes  
Governing purpose  WEF IBC: Setting Purpose  Purpose  
Quality of governing body WEF IBC: Governance Body Composition  Governance framework  
Stakeholder engagement  WEF IBC: Material issues impacting 
stakeholders  Materiality   
Management approach for material 
topics  
Ethical behavior  WEF IBC: Anti -Corruption  Code of Business Conduct
WEF IBC: Protected ethics advice and reporting 
mechanisms  Code of Business Conduct
Risk and opportunity 
oversight  WEF IBC: Integrating risk and opportunity into 
business process  Risk management  
Nutrition  
Materials  
Innovation  
Climate change  WEF IBC: Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions  
SASB: RT -CH-110a.1 
SASB: RT -CH-110a.2 Scope 1 + 2 GHG emissions  
Scope 3 GHG emissions  
WEF IBC: TCFD Implementation  Taskforce on Climate-r elated  Financial  
Disclosures (TCFD)
Nature loss  WEF IBC: Land use and ecological sensitivity  Nature & biodiversity  – only % of sites 
in or adjacent to protected sites is reported. IUCN Red List species is currently unknown.  
Freshwater availability  WEF IBC: Water consumption and withdrawal 
in water -stressed areas  
SASB: RT -CH-140a.1  
SASB: RT -CH-140a.3  Water security  – water stress is only 
measured for ‘non -OTC’ water 
withdrawal  
Air quality SASB: RT -CH-120a.1  Other emissions to air  Sustainability statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  189 Topic  Reference  Location and WEF IBC notes  
Energy management  SASB: RT -CH-130a.1  Energy transition  
Waste management  SASB: RT -CH-150a.1  Waste  
Safety & environmental 
stewardship of c hemicals  SASB: RT -CH-410b.1  
SASB: RT -CH-410b.2  Product stewardship  
Product stewardship  on the company 
website  
Genetically modified 
organisms  SASB: RT -CH-410c.1  Position paper on Industrial 
biotechnology  on the company website  
Dignity and equality  WEF IBC: Diversity and inclusion (%)  Inclusion  and diversity  
WEF IBC: Pay equality (%)  Human rights  
Position paper on fair remuneration  on 
the company website  
Gender pay gap is reported at company 
level. Additional analysis and validation is on going.  
WEF IBC: Wage level (%)  Human rights  
Position paper on fair remuneration  on 
the company website  
DSM focuses on living wage instead of minimum wage.  
WEF IBC: Risk for incidents of child, forced, or 
compulsory labor  Sustainability statements – People  
We have found no instances of child labor within DSM, and child and forced labor are part of the Code of Business Conduct. Risk assessment is in progress for the Supply Chai n. It is incl uded in 
the Supplier Code of Conduct . 
Health & well-being  WEF IBC: Health and safety (%)  
SASB: RT -CH-320a.1  
SASB: RT -CH-320a.2  Safety, health & well -being  
We do not report on abseentism  
Skills for the future  WEF IBC: Training provided (#, $)  Delivering on the six levers of our 
strategy  
We report on employee level only, as we do not consider it material to our management approach on training to break this number down 
Safety in cidents and 
response  SASB: RT -CH-540a.1  
SASB: RT -CH-540a.2  Safety, health & well -being  
Employment and wealth 
generation  WEF IBC: Absolute number and rate of 
employment  Sustainability statements – People  
We do not provide a breakdown using multiple angles as we do not consider it material to do so 
WEF IBC: Economic Contribution  Taxation position paper  on the 
company website  Sustainability statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  190 Topic  Reference  Location and WEF IBC notes  
We do not report on the financial 
contributions received from 
governments  
WEF IBC: Financial Investment Contribution  Long -term strategy at a glance  
Key business figures at a glance  
Information on the DSM share  
Innovatio n in better 
products and services  WEF IBC: Total R&D Expenses ($)  Innovation Center  
Community and social 
vitality  WEF IBC: Total tax paid  Taxation position paper  on the 
company website  Consolidated financial statements  
Summary of significant accounting policies  
Basi
s of preparation  
DSM’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union and the provisions of section 362 -8 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. 
The accounting policies app lied by DSM comply with IFRS and the pronouncements of the International Financial Reporting 
Interpretation Committee (IFRIC) effective at 31 December 2020 . 
The anticipated impact of the IBOR reform (phase 1, effective as of 2020, and phase 2, effective as of 2021) on the 
operations and results of DSM is limited. Furthermore , new or amended standards that are effective from 1 January 2020 
also do not have a material effect on DSM’s consolidated financial statements. In addition, new or amended standards 
effective after 1 January 2021 were neither adopted  early , nor expected to have significant impact.  
Consolidation  including joint arrangements  
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of Royal DSM and its subsidiaries (together ‘ DSM’ 
or ‘group ’). As a parent company, DSM is exposed, or has right to, the variable returns from its involvement with its 
subsidiaries and has the ability to affect the returns through its power over the subsidiary. The financial data of subsidiaries are  fully consolidated. Non -controlling interests in the group's equity and profit and loss are stated 
separately. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the acquisition date until the date on which DSM ceases to have control. From the acquisition date onwards, all intra -group balances and transactions and unrealized profits or losses from intra -
group transactions are eliminated, with one exception: unrealized losses are not eliminated if there is evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. In such cases, an impairment of the asset is recognized.  
A joint arrangement is an entity in which DSM holds an interest and which is jointly controlled by DSM and one or more other venturers under a contractual arrangement . A joint arrangement can either be a joint venture where DSM and the 
other partner(s) have rights to the net assets of the arrangement , or a joint operation where DSM and the partner(s) have 
rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities of the arrangement. For joint ventures, the investment  in the net 
assets is recognized and accounted for in accordance with the equity method. For a joint operation, assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are recognized in the financial statements of DSM in accordance with the contractual entitlement or obligations of DSM.  
Business combinations  
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, including liabilities incurred, measured at acquisition date fair value, and the amount of any non -controlling interest in the acquiree. Acquisition costs incurred are expensed.  
As of the acquisition date, identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed and any non -controlling interest in the acquiree 
are recognized separately from goodwill. Identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed are measured at acquisition date fair value. For each business combination, DSM elects whether it measures the non -controlling interest in 
the acquiree a t fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquiree ’s identifiable net  assets. Any contingent 
consideration payable is measured at fair value at the acquisition date.  
Segmentation  
Segment information is presented in respect of the group ’s operating segments, about which separate financial 
information is available that is regularly evaluated by the chief operating decision maker. DSM has determined that Nutrition, Materials and the Innovation Center represent reportable segments in addition to Corporate Activities. The Managing Board decides how to allocate resources and assesses the performance of the clusters. Cluster performance is reported and reviewed down to the level of Adjusted EBITDA. The clusters are organized in accordance with the type of 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  191 Consolidated financial statements – Summary of significant accounting policies  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  192 products produced and the nature of the markets served. The same accounting policies that are applied for the 
con
solidated financial statements of DSM are also applied for the operating segments. Prices for transactions between 
segments are determ ined on an arm ’s length basis. Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly 
attributable to a segment as well as those that can reasonably and consistently be allocated. Selected information on a country and regional basis is provided in addition to the information about operating segments.  
Foreign currency translation  
The presentation currency of the group is the euro.  
Each entity of the group records transactions and balance sheet items in its functional currency. Transactions denominate d in a currency other than the functional currency are recorded at the spot exchange rates prevailing at the 
date of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity are translated  at the closing rates. Exchange differences resulting from the settlement of these transactions and 
from the translation of monetary items are recognized in the income statement.  
Non-monetary assets that are measured on the basis of historical costs denomi nated in a currency other than the 
functional currency continue to be translated against the rate at initial recognition and will not result in exchange differences.  
On consolidation, the balance sheets of subsidiaries that do not have the euro as their functional currency are translated into euros at the closing rate. The income statements of these entities are translated into euros at the average rates for the relevant period. Goodwill paid on acquisition is recorded in the functional currency of the acquired entity. Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in entities with a functional currency other than the euro are recorded in Other comprehensive income. The same applies to  exchange differences arising from borrowings and  other 
financial instruments insofar as those instruments hedge the currency risk related to the net investment. On disposal of an entity with a functional currency other than the euro, the cumulative exchange differences relating to the translation of the net investment are recognized in profit or loss.  
Distinction between current and non -current  
An asset (liability) is classified as current when it is expected to be realized (settled) within 12 months after the balance sheet date.  
Offsetting  
Financial ass ets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is presented in the balance sheet when DSM has a 
legal right to offset the amounts and intends either to settle them on a net basis or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.  
Intangible assets  
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over DSM ’s share in the net fair value of the identifiable assets 
and liabilities of an acquired subsidiary, joint venture or associate. Goodwill paid on acquisition of subsidi aries is included 
in intangible assets. Goodwill paid on acquisition of joint ventures or associates is included in the carrying amount of these entities. Goodwill recognized as an intangible asset is not amortized but tested for impairment annually , and w hen 
there are indications that the carrying amount may exceed the recoverable amount. A gain or loss on the disposal of an entity includes the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.  
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are  recognized at fair value on the date of acquisition and 
subsequently amortized over their expected useful lives, which vary from 4 to 20 years.  
Separately acquired licenses, patents, drawing rights and application software are carried at historical cost l ess straight -
line amortization and less any impairment losses. The expected useful lives vary from 4 to 15 years. Costs of software maintenance are expensed when incurred. Capital expenditure that is directly related to the development of application software is recognized as an intangible asset and amortized over its estimated useful life (5 to 8 years).  Consolidated financial statements – Summary of significant accounting policies  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  193 Research costs are expensed when incurred. Development expenditure is capitalized if the recognition criteria are met and 
if
 it is demonstrated that it is  technically feasible to complete the asset; that the entity intends to complete the asset; that 
the entity is able to sell the asset; that the asset is capable of generating future economic benefits; that adequate resources are available to complete the a sset; and that the expenditure attributable to the asset can  be reliably measured. 
Development expenditure is amortized over the asset ’s useful life. Development projects under construction are included 
under ‘Development projects ’. 
Property, plant and equ ipment  
Property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less depreciation calculated on a straight -line basis and less any 
impairment losses. Interest during construction is capitalized when it meets the criteria of a qualifying asset. Expenditures  
relating to major scheduled turnarounds are capitalized and depreciated over the period up to the next turnaround.  
Property, plant and equipment are systematically depreciated over their estimated useful lives. The estimated remaining lives of assets are reviewed every year, taking account of commercial and technological obsolescence as well as normal wear and tear. The initially assumed expected useful lives are in principle as follows: for buildings 10 –50 years; for plant 
and machinery 5–15 years; for other eq uipment 4 –10 years. Land is not depreciated.  
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognized upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use or the sale of the asset. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset is recorded in profit or loss.  
Leases  
DSM recognizes a lease liability and a corresponding right -of-use asset at the commencement date of a lease. The lease 
liability is initially measured at the present value of the remaining lease payments that are not paid at the commencement date.  In general, DSM splits the contractual consideration into a lease and a non -lease component based on their relative 
stand -alone prices. For vehicle leases, however, DSM applies the practical expedient not to make this split but rather 
accounts for the fixed consideration as a single lease component.  If available, DSM applies the implicit interest rate in the 
contract to discount the remaining lease payments; only else, DSM uses the applicable incremental borrowing rate as the discount rate. In determining the incremental borrowing rate, DSM applies the practical expedient to use a single discount rate to portfolios of leases with reasonably similar characteristics.  Over time , the lease liability is increased by the interest 
expense related to the unwinding of the lease liability and decreased by the lease payments made. The lease liability is remeasured when DSM reassesses or modifies the contractual terms and conditions , including indexation.  
The corresponding right -of-use assets are measured at cost  less any depreciation  on a straight -line basis over the 
expected lease term , less any impairment losses , and adjusted for  remeasurements of the lease liability. In line with the 
initially assumed ex pected useful life of the corresponding asset class within Property, plant and equipment, the minimum 
expected lease term for building  leases is in principle 10 years. However, the contractual terms or specific circumstances 
could require applying the shor ter non -cancellable period in determining the expected lease term. For vehicle leases, the 
expected lease term is set equal to the contractual term (4 –5 years).  
Payments related to short -term leases (leases with a term shorter than 12 months) are recognized on a straight -line basis 
in profit or loss.  
Impairment of non -financial assets  
When there are indications that the carrying amount of a non- financial asset (an intangible asset or an item of property, 
plant and equipment) may exceed the estimated recoverable amount (the higher of its value in use and fair value less costs to sell), the possible existence of an impairment loss is investigated. If an asset does not generate largely independent cash flows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit (CGU) to which the asset belongs. In assessing the value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre -
tax discount rate that reflects current market interest rates and the risks sp ecific to the asset.  
When the recoverable amount of a non -financial asset is less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount is impaired to 
its recoverable amount and an impairment charge is recognized in profit or loss. An impairment loss is reversed when Consolidated financial statements – Summary of significant accounting policies  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  194  there has been a change in estimate that is relevant for the determination of the asset ’s recoverable amount since the last 
impairment loss was recognized. Impairment losses for goodwill are never reversed.  
Associates and joint ventures 
An associate is an entity over which DSM has significant influence but no control or joint control, usually evidenced by a 
shareholding that entitles DSM to between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. A joint venture is an entity over which DSM 
has joint control and is ent itled to its share of the net assets and liabilities. Investments in associates and joint ventures 
are accounted for by the equity method, which involves recognition in the income statement of DSM ’s share of the 
associate ’s or joint venture ’s profit or los s for the year determined in accordance with the accounting policies of DSM. Any 
other results at DSM in relation to associated companies are recognized under Other results related to associates and joint ventures. DSM ’s interest in an associate or joint v enture is carried in the balance sheet at its share in the net assets of the 
associate or joint venture together with goodwill paid on acquisition, less any impairment loss.  
When DSM ’s share in the loss of an associate or joint venture exceeds the carrying  amount of that entity, the carrying 
amount is reduced to zero. No further losses are recognized, unless DSM has responsibility for obligations relating to the entity.  
Financial instruments  
Financial instruments are contractual rights and obligations resulting in an inflow or outflow of financial  assets or the 
issue of equity instruments. They are initially measured at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs. Transaction costs for financial instruments assigned to the category ‘A t fair value through profit and loss ’ are recognized 
directly in the income statement. Subsequent measurement is based on the classification of financial instruments defined in IFRS 9.  
Non-derivative financial instruments  
DSM initially recognizes financial assets and financial liabilities on the date when DSM becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. DSM derecognizes a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the rights to  receive the contractual cash flows in a transaction in which substantially all 
the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset are transferred, or when DSM neither transfers nor retains substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership and  does not retain control over the transferred asset. DSM 
derecognizes a financial liability when its contractual obligations are discharged or canceled, or expire.  
Other financial assets  
Other financial assets comprise loans to associates and joint venture s, other participating interests, other receivables and 
other deferred items.  
DSM’s business model objective for loans is ‘he ld-to-collect contractual cash flows only ’. Held to collect loans , other  
receivables  and other deferred items , for which the contra ctual cash flows consist solely of principal and interest, are 
measured at amortized cost, using the effective interest method, which generally corresponds to the nominal value, less an 
adjustment for expected credit loss. Upon disposal of these assets the  gain or loss is recognized in profit or loss.  
Other receivables, for which the contractual cash flows are not solely principal and interest, are recognized at fair value, with changes in fair value recognized in profit or loss.  
Other participating interests comprise equity interests in entities in which DSM has no significant influence; these are accounted for as assets at fair value through profit or loss, or DSM uses the irrevocable election to present the fair value changes in other comprehensive income (Fair value reserve) instead of profit or loss. These fair value changes in OCI will 
not be recycled through profit and loss upon disposal of the interest . All dividends received will be presented in profit or 
loss. 
Expected credit loss  
All financial asse ts measured at amortized cost and fair value through other comprehensive income include an  allowance 
for expected credit loss as of the date of initial recognition of the asset. Expected credit losses are measured as the 
present value of the difference between the cash flows due to DSM, and the cash flows that DSM expects to receive. Consolidated financial statements – Summary of significant accounting policies  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  195  Expected credit losses , are reassessed  over time and  recognized in the income statement. Loss allowances for trade 
receivables are always measured at lifetime expected credit l oss. 
Inventories  
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value. The first in, first out (FIFO) method of valuation is u sed 
unless the nature of the inventories requires the use of a different cost formula, in which case the weighted average cost 
method is used. The cost of intermediates and finished goods includes directly attributable costs and related production overhead expenses. Net realizable value is determined as the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale. Products whose manufacturing 
cost cannot be calculated because of joint cost components are stated at net realizable value after deduction of a margin for selling and  distribution efforts.  
Current receivables  
Current receivables, which include trade receivables, income tax receivables and other current receivables,  for which the 
contractual cash flows are solely principal and interest are initially recognized at fair value plus any directly attributabl e 
transaction costs.  
Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method, which  generally 
corresponds to nominal value, less an adjustment for expected credit loss.  
Current investments  
Current investments are initially recognized at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. Deposits with banks with a maturity between 3 and 12 months are classified as current investments.  
Cash and cash equivalents  
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at banks and in hand and deposits held at call with banks with a maturity of less than three months at inception. Bank overdrafts are included in current liabilities. Included in cash and cash equivalents are investments in money market funds that do not meet the SPPI (Solely Payments of Principal & Interest) criterion but are held to meet short -term cash demand. Cash and cash equivalents are measured at fair value through profit and loss, 
or amortized cost.  
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale  
Non-current assets and disposal groups (assets and liabilities relating to an activity that is to be sold) are classified as 
‘held for sale ’ if their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sales transaction rather than through 
continuing u se. The reclassification takes place when the assets are available for immediate sale and the sale is highly 
probable. These conditions are usually met as from the date on which a letter of intent or agreement to sell is ready for signing. Non- current asse ts and disposal groups held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value 
less costs to sell. Non -current assets held for sale are not depreciated or amortized. For transparency, non -current assets 
and disposal groups that will contr ibute to joint ventures are reported separately from other assets and liabilities held for 
sale. 
Discontinued operations  
Discontinued operations comprise those activities that were disposed of during the period or which were classified as held for sale at the end of the period and represent a separate major line of business or geographical area that can be clearly distinguished for operational and financial reporting purposes.  
Royal DSM Shareholders ’ equity  
DSM’s ordinary shares and cumulative preference shares are classified as Royal DSM Shareholders ’ equity. This is the case 
for the latter, as there is no mandatory redemption, and distributions to the shareholders are at the discretion of DSM. The price paid for repurchased DSM shares (treasury shares) is deducted from Royal DSM Shareholders ’ equity until the shares 
are canceled or reissued. Treasury shares are presented in the treasury share reserve. When treasury  shares are sold or 
reissued, the amount received is recognized as an increase in equity. D ividend to be distributed to holders of cumulative 
preference shares is recognized as a liability when the Supervisory Board approves the proposal for profit distribution. Consolidated financial statements – Summary of significant accounting policies  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  196  Dividend to be distributed to holders of ordinary shares is recognized as a liabilit y when the Annual General Meeting of 
Shareholders approves the profit appropriation.  
Provisions 
Provisions are recognized when all of the following conditions are met: (1) there is a present legal or constructive 
obligation as a result of past events, (2) it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will settle the obligation, and (3) a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.  
The probable amount required to settle long -term obligations is discounted if the effect of discounting  is material. Where 
discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognized as financial expense. 
Borrowings  
Borrowings are not held for trading and are initially recognized at fair value of the proceeds received, net of  transaction 
costs. Subsequently, borrowings are stated at amortized cost using the effective interest method. Measurement at 
amortized cost includes any discount or premium on the borrowing. Interest expenses are recorded  as financial expense in 
profit or  loss. 
If the interest rate risk relating to a long -term borrowing is hedged through a fair value hedge, and the hedge is effective, 
the carrying amount of the long -term loan is adjusted for changes in fair value of the interest component of the hedged 
loan.  
Other current liabilities  
Other current liabilities are measured at amortized cost, which generally corresponds to the nominal value.  
Revenue for contracts with customers  
Revenue from contracts with customers is recognized by identifying the contract and its performance obligations as well as 
determination and allocation of the transaction price to these performance obligations. At DSM, revenue related to the sale of goods is recognized in the income statement wh en the performance obligation is satisfied. This is at the point in 
time when transfer of control of the goods passes to the buyer. Revenue recognized  is measured at the fair value of the 
contractual transaction price allocated to the performance obligation that is satisfied . 
Income coming from the rendering of services is recognized when the service, i.e., the performance obligation, has been  
performed. The revenue recognized  is measured at the fair value of the  contractual  transaction price allocated to t he 
performance obligation that is satisfied . 
Net sales represent the invoice value less estimated rebates, cash discounts, and indirect taxes.  
Income related to the sale or licensing of technologies or technological expertise is recognized in the income st atement 
either at a point in time or over time, depending on when the contractually identified performance obligations are satisfied. Performance obligations related to license income include the transfer of rights and obligations associated with those technologies.  
License income is reported in Net sales when the income is part of the ordinary and recurring activities of the business and, if this is not the case , it is reported  in Other operating income.  
Interest income is recognized on a time-proportionat e basis using the effective interest method.  
Dividend income is recognized when the right to receive payment is established.  
Government grants  
Government grants are recognized at their fair value if there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all related conditions will be complied with. Cost grants are recognized as income over the periods necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the cost that it is intended to compensate. If the grant is an investment grant, its fair value is initially recognized as deferred income in Other non -current liabilities and then released to profit or loss over the 
expected useful life of the relevant asset.  Consolidated financial statements – Summary of significant accounting policies  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  197  Share -based compensation  
Performance shares and restricted share units are granted free of charge to eligible staff and generally vest after three 
years on the achievement of previously determined target  vesting conditions. The cost of performance shares and 
restricted share units is measured by reference to the fair value of the DSM shares on the date on which the performance shares and restricted share units were granted and is recognized in profit or loss (Employee benefit costs) during the vesting period, together with a corresponding increase in equity. Vesting conditions other than market conditions are taken into account by adjusting the number of equity instruments, so that the amount recognized during the vesting period in employee benefit costs is based on the number of equity instruments that eventually vest.  
The costs of option plan s are measured by reference to the fair value of the options on the date on which the options are 
granted. The fair value is determined using the Black -Scholes model, taking into account market conditions linked to the 
price of the DSM share. The costs of these options are recognized in profit or loss (Employee benefit costs) during the vesting period, together with a corresponding increase in Equity in the case of equity -settled options or Other non -current 
liabilities in the case of cash -settled options. No expense is recognized for options that do not ultimately vest, except for 
options where vesting is conditional upon a market condition.  
Emission rights 
DSM is subject to legislation encouraging reductions in greenhouse gas emissions and has been awarded  emission rights 
(principally CO
2 emission rights) in a number of jurisdictions. Emission rights are reserved for meeting delivery obligations 
and are recognized at cost (usually zero). Revenue is recognized when surplus emission rights are sold to third p arties. 
When actual emissions exceed the emission rights available to DSM, a liability is recognized for the expected additional 
costs.  
Alternative performance measures (APMs)  
DSM uses Alternative performance measures to present and discuss DSM ’s financial  results. To arrive at these APMs, 
adjustments are made for  material items of income and expense arising from circumstances such as acquisitions and 
divestments, restructuring, impairments and o ther events . 
Other APM adjusting events  include site closure costs, environmental cleaning, litigation settlements or other non -
operational (contractual) arrangements. Other than items related to acquisition and integration costs incurred in the first year from the acquisition date (including n on-recurring inventory value adjustments) as well as adjustments due to 
previously recognized APM adjusting events, the threshold is €10 million.  
Income tax  
Income tax expense is recognized in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to an  item recognized 
directly in Other comprehensive income or Shareholders ’ equity.  
Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable with respect to previous years. The current tax position also  reflects 
any uncertainty related to income taxes. Current tax assets and liabilities are offset only if certain criteria are met.  
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities and their tax base. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rat es 
that have been enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date, and reflect  any uncertainty related to income 
taxes  and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax assets are realized or the deferred tax liabilities are settled. 
Deferred tax assets, including assets arising from losses carried forward and tax credits, are reassessed over time and recognized to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be  available against which the deductible 
temporary differences and unused tax losses can be utilized. Deferred tax assets and liabiliti es are stated at nominal value.  
Deferred taxes are not provided for the following temporary differences: the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, and difference s relating to investments 
in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets and deferred  
tax liabilities are offset and presented net when there is a legally enforceable right to offset, and th e assets and liabilities 
relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority.  Consolidated financial statements – Summary of significant accounting policies  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  198  Derivatives  
Derivatives are measured at fair value  at initial recognition and subsequent  changes are recognized in profit or loss, unless 
hedge accounting is applied.  
Hedging  
DSM uses derivatives such as foreign currency forward contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge risks associated with 
foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations. In addition, DSM may use commodity swap or forward contracts to hedge risks associ ated with exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices.  
Derivatives used as hedge instrument are recognized in the balance sheet at fair value and changes in fair value are 
recognized in profit or loss unless cash flow hedge accounting or net investment hedge accounting is applied.  
Cash flow hedge  
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated and qualifying as cash flow hedges are recognized in Other comprehensive income (Hedging reserve) to the extent that the hedge is effective. Upon recognition of the related asset or liability, the cumulative gain or loss is transferred from the hedging reserve and included in the carrying amount of the hedged item if it is a non -financial asset or liability. Any ineffective portion of the changes of t he fair value of the 
derivative is recognized immediately in profit and loss. If the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the hedg e 
no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the designation is revoked, then hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively. If the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, then the amount accumulated in equity is reclassified to profit or loss. If the hedged item is a fina ncial 
asset or liability, the gain or loss is transferred to profit or loss.  
Net investment hedge  
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated and qualifying as net investment hedges are recognized in Other  
comprehensive income (Translation reserve) to the extent that the hedge is effective and the change in fair value is caused 
by changes in currency exchange rates. Accumulated gains and losses are released from Other comprehensive income and are included in profit or loss when the net investment is  disposed of. Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated 
and qualifying as fair value hedges are immediately recognized in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged assets or liabilities attributable to the he dged risk.  
Pensions and other post -employment benefits  
For DSM’s  defined contribution plans, the obligations are limited to the payment of contributions, which are recognized as 
Employee benefit costs.  
For defined benefit plans, the aggregate of the value of the defined benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets for 
each plan is recognized as a net defined benefit liability or asset. Defined benefit obligations are determined using the projected unit credit method. Plan assets are recognized at fair value. If the fair value of plan assets exceeds the present value of the defined benefit obligation, a net asset is only recognized to the extent that the asset is available for refunds  to 
the employer or for reductions in future contributions to the plan. Defined benefit pension costs consist of three elements: service costs, net interest, and remeasurements. Service costs are part of Employee benefit costs and consist of current service costs. Past service costs and results of plan settlements are included in Other operating income or expense. Net interest is part of Financial income and expense and is determined on the basis of the value of the net defined benefit asset or liability at the start of the year, and on the interest on high- quality corporat e bonds. Remeasurements are 
actuarial gains and losses, the return (or interest cost) on net plan assets (or liabilities) excluding amounts included in n et 
interest and changes in the effect of the asset ceiling. These remeasurements are recognized in Other comprehensive income as they occur and are not recycled through profit or loss at a later stage.  
 
 Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  199 Consolidated financial statements
Consolidated income statement  
x € million  Notes  2020  2019 
Continuing operations  
Net sales  5  8,106  7,998  
Cost of sales  5 (5,330)  (5,234)  
Gross margin  2,776  2,764  
Marketing and sales  5 (1,149)  (1,154)  
Research and development  5 (398)  (295)  
General and administrative  5 (469)  (478)  
Other operating income  5 102 142 
Other operating expense  5 (200)  (107) 
Operating profit  662 872 
Financial income  6  44 30 
Financial expense  6  (111) (122) 
Profit before income tax expense  595 780 
Income tax expense  7 (106)  (145) 
Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures  10  (64) (9) 
Other results related to associates and joint ventures  10  32 63 
Net profit from continuing operations  457 689 
Net profit from discontinued operations  3  51 75 
Net profit for the year  508 764 
Of which:  
-Attributable to non -controlling interests 17 2 6 
-Dividend on cumulative preference shares 16  7 8 
-Available to holders of ordinary shares 16  499 750 
Earnings per share (EPS) total (in €):  2
-Net basic EPS 2.91 4.27 
-Net diluted EPS 2.89 4.24 
Earnings per share (EPS) continuing operations (in €):  2
-Net basic EPS 2.64 3.85 
-Net diluted EPS 2.62 3.83 
The 20
19 figures have been re -presented due to discontinued operations.  
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  
See Note 2 Alternative performance measures  for the reconciliation to Adjusted EBITDA of € 1,534  million (2019: € 1,551 
million) and other adjusted IFRS performance measures.  Consolidated financial statements 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  200 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income  
x € million  Notes  2020  2019 
Net profit for the year  508 764 
Other comprehensive income  
Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans  24 (24) (24) 
Fair value changes in Other participating interests  11 106 (21) 
Transfer of fair value of other participating interest to retained earnings  - 4 
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations relating to the non -
controlling interests  17 (4) 2 
Tax related items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss  (4) 9 
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss  74 (30)  
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations  16  
-Change for the year (451) 134 
-Reclassification adjustment to the income statement - (9) 
Hedging reserve  16  - - 
-Change for the year 40 (18) 
-Reclassification adjustment to the income statement 20 66 
Equity accounted investees - share of Other comprehensive income  (2) 1 
Tax related items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss  (4) (4) 
Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss  (397)  170 
. 
Total comprehensive income  185 904 
Of which:  
-Attributable to non -controlling interests 17 (2) 8 
-Available to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 16  187 896 Consolidated financial statements 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  201 Consolidated balance sheet at 31 December  
x € million  Notes  2020  2019 
Assets  
Intangible assets  8  4,455  3,515  
Property, plant and equipment  9 3,774  4,040  
Deferred tax assets  7 239 217 
Share in associates and joint ventures  10  93 155 
Derivatives  23  61 27 
Other financial assets  11 317 265 
Non-current assets  8,939  8,219  
Inventories  12 1,879  2,019  
Trade receivables  13  1,391 1,592  
Income tax receivables  13  35 61 
Other current receivables  13  62 45 
Derivatives  23  48 19 
Current investments  14 43 688 
Cash and cash equivalents  15 871 800 
Assets held for sale  3  1,096  - 
Current assets  5,425  5,224  
Total  14,364  13,443  
. 
Equity and liabilities  
Shareholders' equity  7,399  7,731 
Non-controlling interests  17 88 104 
Equity  16  7,487  7,835  
Deferred tax liabilities  7 433 296 
Employee benefit liabilities  24 414 413 
Provisions  18  123 120 
Borrowings  19 3,479  2,464  
Derivatives  23  1 7 
Other non -current liabilities  20  163 145 
Non-current liabilities  4,613  3,445  
Employee benefit liabilities  24 42 43 
Provisions  18  61 48 
Borrowings  19 107 189 
Derivatives  23  13 18 
Trade payables  21 1,218 1,345  
Income tax payables  21 53 42 
Other current liabilities  21 516 478 
Liabilities held for sale 3  254 - 
Current liabilities  2,264  2,163  
Total  14,364  13,443  Consolidated financial statements 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  202 Consolidated statement of changes in equity (Note 16)  
x € million  Share 
capital  Share 
premium  Treasury 
shares Other 
reserves Retained 
earnings  Total  Non-
controlling 
interests  Total  
Equity  
Balance at 1 January 2019  338 489 (371) (55) 7,381  7,782  33 7,815  
Dividend  - - - - (414) (414) (4) (418)
Options / performance shares granted  - - - 34 - 34 - 34
Options / performance shares vested / 
canceled - - - (36) 36 - - - 
Reissued shares  - - 335 - (11) 324 - 324
Acquisition of NCI without a change in 
control  - - - - (13) (13) 9  (4) 
Acquisition (divestment) of subsidiary with 
NCI - - - - - - 57  57 
Repurchase of shares  - - (869)  - - (869)  - (869)
Transfer  - - - 4  (4) - - - 
Other  - - - 1  (10) (9) 1  (8) 
Total comprehensive income  - - - 148 748 896 8 904 
Balance at 31 December 2019  338 489 (905) 96 7,713 7,731 104 7,835  
. 
Dividend  - - - - (423) (423) (6) (429)
Options / performance shares granted  - - - 29  - 29 - 29
Options / performance shares vested / 
canceled - - - (39) 39 - - - 
Reissued shares  - - 238 - (32) 206 - 206
Acquisition of NCI without a change in 
control  - - - - (22) (22) (10) (32)
Acquisition (divestment) of subsidiary with 
NCI - - - - - - (1) (1) 
Repurchase of shares  - - (309)  - - (309)  - (309)
Transfer  - - - (30) 30 - - - 
Other  - - - (3) 3 - 3 3 
Total comprehensive income  - - - (296) 483 187 (2) 185
Balance at 31 December 2020  338 489 (976) (243) 7,791 7,399  88 7,487  Consolidated financial statements 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  203 Consolidated cash flow statement (Note 26)  
x € million  2020  2019 
Operating activities  
Net profit for the year  508 764 
Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures (including discontinued operations)1 32 (54) 
Income tax (including discontinued operations)1 129 152 
Profit before income tax expense (including discontinued operations)1 669 862 
Financial income and expense (including discontinued operations)1 67 92 
Operating profit (including discontinued operations)1 736 954 
Depreciation, amortization and impairments (including discontinued operations)1 740 632 
EBITDA (including discontinued operations)1 1,476  1,586  
Adjustments for:  
-(Gain) or loss from disposals 4 (4) 
-Acquisition / divestment related in EBITDA 55 13 
-Change in provisions 10 26 
-Defined benefit plans (13) (39) 
Adjustments for EBITDA  56 (4) 
Income tax received  11 9 
Income tax paid  (135) (149)  
Share -based compensation  29 34 
Contract settlements and other non -cash items  13 (70) 
Other  19 (8) 
Adjustments for non -EBITDA  (63) (184)  
Operating cash flow before changes in working capital  1,469  1,398  
Changes in operating working capital:  
Inventories  (36) 114 
Trade receivables  (4) 59 
Trade payables  48 (121) 
Changes in inventories, trade receivables and trade payables  8 52 
Changes in non -operating working capital  17 (65) 
Changes in working capital  25 (13) 
Cash provided by operating activities  1,494  1,385  
1 The Consolidated cash flow statement includes an analysis of all cash flows in total, therefore including both continuing and  
discontinued operations. For the amounts related to discontinued operations split by activities and a reconciliation of profit  from 
continuing operations to total, including discontinued operations , see Note 3 Change in the scope of the consolidation . Consolidated financial statements 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  204 Consolidated cash flow statement (Note 26) continued  
x € million  2020  2019 
Cash provided by operating activities  1,494  1,385  
Investing activities  
Capital expenditure for:1 
-Intangible assets (151) (107) 
-Property, plant and equipment (458)  (520)  
Payments regarding drawing rights  (17) (14) 
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment  1 6 
Acquisition of subsidiaries and associates  (1,533)  (556)  
Disposal of subsidiaries, businesses and associates  (2) 37 
Additions to fixed -term deposits  (468)  (1,195)  
Withdrawal from fixed -term deposits  1,114 1,783 
Interest received  8 10 
Other financial assets:  
-Capital payments and acquisitions (20) (53) 
-Dividends received 5 75 
-Additions to loans granted (9) (17) 
-Repayment of loans granted 1 25 
-Proceeds from disposals 47 1 
Cash from / (used in) investing activities  (1,482)  (525)  
Financing activities  
Capital payments from / to non -controlling interests  (30) 1 
Loans taken up  1,123 7 
Repayment of loans  (268)  (302)  
Payments of lease liabilities  (55) (53) 
Change in debt to credit institutions  (95) 57 
Dividend paid  (289)  (291) 
Interest paid  (54) (57) 
Proceeds from reissued treasury shares  63 180 
Repurchase of shares  (309)  (869)  
Other  (3) (5) 
Cash (used in) / from financing activities  83 (1,332)  
Change in cash and cash equivalents  95 (472)  
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January  800 1,281 
Exchange differences relating to cash held  (24) (9) 
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December  871 800 
1 An amount  of €24 million included in capital expenditure was funded by customers (2019: €18 million); all lease payments are 
recognized as cash used in financing activities . Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  205 Notes to the consolidated f inancial statements of 
Royal DSM  
1 General information  
Unless stated otherwise, all amounts are in € million.  
A list of DSM participations has been filed with the Chamber of Commerce (Netherlands) and is available from the 
company upon request. The list can also be downloaded from the company website . 
The preparation of financial statements requires estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements.  
In addition to DSM’s significant accounting policies in the previous section, t he policies that management considers to be 
the most important for the presentation of the financial condition and results of DSM’s operations are further discussed in 
the relevant Notes. The same holds for the issues that require management judgments or estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Management cautions that future events often vary from foreca sts and that estimates routinely 
require adjustment. Areas of judgment that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognized in the financial statements relate to the categorization of material items in profit or loss  as ‘APM adjustments ’, theref ore impacting  the 
alternative performance measures , and the identification of cash generating units (CGUs) , impacting goodwill impairment 
testing . 
Key assumptions and estimates that need to be made by management relate to the useful lives of non -current assets 
(Notes 8 and 9), the establishment of provisions for restructuring costs, environmental costs (Note 18) and retirement and other post -employment benefits (Note 24), the recognition and measurement of income taxes (Note 7), the determinat ion 
of fair values for financial instruments (Note 23) and for share- based compensation (Note 27). The uncertainty concerning 
the actual outflows of provisions relates to both the amounts and the timing of potential future events.  
Furthermore, impairment t esting of goodwill , intangible assets  and development projects requires judgments by 
management . Apart from the  determination of CGUs , the estimation of future cashflows, growth rates , discount rates  and 
fair values minus costs of disposal r equire judgemen t as well  (Notes 2, 8, 9 and 10). Significant judgment is also required 
for the determination of the fair value of assets acquired , and liabilities assumed in business combinations (Note 3) and 
for the valuation of drawing rights (Note 8). For drawing righ ts, the most important judgments relate to the estimation of 
the required maintenance and replacement outlays. Estimates are based on historical quoted market prices, experience and assumptions that are considered reasonable under the circumstances.  
For le ase contracts under IFRS 16 that include renewal options, determining the lease term involves judgment based on the 
underlying asset class, past practices and current business outlooks. The assessment of these renewal options affects the lease term of thes e contracts and, in turn, the recognized lease liabilities and the corresponding right -of-use assets.  
Exchange rates  
The currency exchange rates that were used in preparing the consolidated financial statements are listed below for the most important curre ncies.  
1 euro =  Exchange rate at 
balance sheet date  Average exchange 
rate 
2020  2019 2020  2019 
US dollar  1.23 1.12 1.14 1.12 
Swiss franc  1.08 1.09 1.07 1.11 
Brazilian real  6.37 4.52 5.88 4.41 
Chinese renminbi  8.02 7.82 7.87 7.73 Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Roya l DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  206 Presentation of consolidated income statement  
DS
M presents expenses in the consolidated income statement in accordance with their function. This allows the 
presentation of gross margin on the face of the income statement, which is a widely used performance measure in the 
industry. The composition of the costs allocated to the individual functions is explained below.  
Cost of sales  encompasses all manufacturing costs (including raw materials, employee benefits, and depreciation and 
amortization) related to goods and services captured in net sales. These are measured at their actual cost based on FIFO, or weighted average cost.  
Marke ting & Sales relates to the selling and marketing of goods and services, and also includes all costs that are directly 
related to the sale of goods, but are not originated by the manufacturing of the goods (e.g., outbound freight).  
Research & Development consists of:  
-Research, which is defined as original and planned investigation undertaken with the prospect of gaining new
scientific or technical knowledge and understanding
-Development, which is defined as the application of research findings o r other knowledge to a plan or design for the
production of new or substantially improved materials, devices, products, processes, systems or services before the
start of commercial production or use
General and administrative  relates to the strategic and governance role of the general management of the company as 
well as the representation of DSM as a who le in the financial, political or business community. It also relates to business 
support activities of staff departments that are not directly related to the other functional areas.
2 Alternative performance measures  
In presenting and discussing DSM’s financial position, operating results and net results, management uses certain Alternative performance measures not defined by IFRS. These Alternative performance measures (APMs) should not be viewed in isolation as alternatives to the equivalent IFRS measures and should be used as supplementary information in conjunction with the most directly comparable IFRS measures. Alternative performance measures do not have standardized meaning under IFRS and therefore may not be comparable to similar measures presented by other companies.  
To provide clear reporting on the developments of the business, APM adjustments, which represent material ite ms of 
income or expense, are made. These adjustments impact the EBIT(DA), operating profit, net profit, ROCE, cash provided by operating activities and EPS. A reconciliation of the Alternative performance measures to the most directly comparable IFRS measures can be found in the table Alternative performance measures.  
The APM adjustments to net profit, as included in the APMs, can be specified as follows:  
2020  2019 
APM Adjustments (continuing operations)  
-Acquisitions/divestments 52 13 
-Restructuring 103 64 
-Other 11 17 
-Impairments of PPE and intangible assets 101 23 
-Income tax related to adjustments (54) (26) 
-Adjustments to result from associates and joint ventures 41 (28) 
Total APM adjustments (income)/expense  254 63 Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  207  2020 
The APM adjustments in 2020 are listed below:  
- Acquisition and divestment costs of € 52 million relate mainly to the acquisition of Glycom , CSK  and Erber Group  
- Restructuring costs of € 103 million relate to restructuring projects  (mainly Fit for Growth within Nutrition and Agile to 
grow within Materials)  together with the redundancy schemes associated with the dismissal of employees and costs of 
termination of contracts  
- Impairments of property, plant and equipment (PPE) and intangible assets of € 101 million and t he other APM 
adjustment of € 11 million relate s to an impairment of €56 million of  DSM Bio -based Products & Services, owing to a n 
expected  subdued market outlook for biofuels  which le d to insufficient expected future cash flows and an  impairment 
of €56 million relating to DSM Advanced Solar on its solar assets following the sale to Covestro  AG 
- APM adjustments to the result from associates and joint ventures of € 41 million mainly relate  to the joint venture 
POET -DSM, following the decision to mothball the second -generation bio -ethanol plant in Emmetsburg (Iowa, USA)  
and includes DSM's equity -accounted share in the impairment loss recognized by  the joint venture (€74 million), the 
impairm ent of the associated intangible assets (€11 million) and the related tax benefit ( -€28 million)  
2019 
The APM adjustments in 2019 are listed below:  
- Acquisition and divestment costs of €13 million relate mainly to the acquisition of Yimante, Andre Pectin and CSK  
- Restructuring costs of €6 4 million relate to project costs of the restructuring projects together with the redundancy 
schemes associated with the dismissal of employees and costs of termination of contracts  
- The other APM adjustment of €17 million relates to the provision for soil cleaning within Corporate Activities  
- Impairments of property, plant and equipment (PPE) and intangible assets of €23 million relate mainly to a 
development project of DSM Nutritional Products and the impairment of an investment project within DSM Food Specialties  
- APM adjustments to the result from associates and joint ventures of €28 million mainly relate to the step -up to the 
fair value of the associate Andre Pectin prior to the acquisition  
  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  208  Alternative performance measures (continuing operations)  
 2020   2019  
Operating profit  662  872  
Depreciation, amortization and impairments  706  585  
EBITDA  1,368   1,457   
APM adjustments to EBITDA:    
- Acquisitions/divestments  52  13  
- Restructuring  103  64  
- Other  11  17  
Total APM adjustments  166  94  
Adjusted EBITDA  1,534   1,551   
Operating profit  662  872  
APM adjustments to Operating profit:    
- APM adjustments to EBITDA  166  94  
- Impairments of PPE and Intangible assets  101  23  
Total APM adjustments  267  117  
Adjusted operating profit  929  989  
Net profit from continuing operations  457  689  
APM adjustments to:    
- Operating profit  267  117  
- Result relating to associates/joint ventures  41  (28) 
Income tax related to APM adjustments  (54) (26) 
Total APM adjustments  254  63  
Adjusted net profit from continuing operations  711  752  
Profit attributable to non -controlling interests  2  (5) 
Dividend on cumulative preference shares  (7) (8)    
Adjusted net profit from continuing operations available to holders of ordinary shares  706  739  
 
Below table reflects the earnings per share (EPS) related to continuing operations and to total earnings including 
discontinued operations.  
in € 2020  2019  
Continuing   
operations   Total   Continuing   
operations   Total   
Earnings per share (EPS)      
Average number of ordinary shares outstanding (x 1,000)   171,536    175,731   
Effect of dilution due to share options (x 1,000)   896   1,088   
Adjusted average number of ordinary shares outstanding (x 1,000)   172,432    176,819   
.     
Net profit available to holders of ordinary shares  452  499  677  750  
Adjusted net profit available to holders of ordinary shares  706  760  739  815  
.     
Net basic EPS  2.64  2.91  3.85  4.27  
Net diluted EPS  2.62  2.89  3.83  4.24  
Adjusted net basic EPS  4.12  4.43  4.21  4.64  
Adjusted net diluted EPS  4.09  4.41  4.18  4.61  
 
  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  209  Alternative performance measures  
 2020   2,019   
Capital employed    
Intangible assets  4,455   3,515   
Property, plant and equipment  3,774   4,040   
Investment grants / drawing rights  (112) (96) 
Inventories  1,879   2,019   
Current receivables  1,488   1,698   
Current liabilities  (1,787)  (1,865)  
Included discontinued operations  -  (883)  
Capital employed at 31 December  9,697   8,428   
Average capital employed    
Capital employed at 1 January  8,428   7,527  
Capital employed at 31 March  8,422   8,021   
Capital employed at 30 June  9,024   7,850   
Capital employed at 30 September  9,018   8,415   
Capital employed at 31 December  9,697   8,428   
Average capital employed  8,918   8,048   
Adjusted operating profit, continuing operations  929  989  
ROCE in %, continuing operations  10.4  12.3  
Cash provided by operating activities  1,494   1,385   
Cash impact APM adjustments  87  57  
Capital expenditure  (609)  (627)  
Payments regarding drawing rights  (17) (14) 
Adjusted net operating free cash flow  955  801  
3 Change in the scope of the consolidation 
Acquisitions 
In 2020, DSM acquired businesses for a total consideration of €1,579  million (in 2019: € 585 million).  
Glycom  
On 1 April 2020, DSM Nutritional Products acquired 100% of the shares of h uman milk oligosaccharides (HMO) 
manufacturer Glycom A /S for a cash consideration of approximately €695  million (base purchase price € 765 million , net 
debt -€74 million , difference in net working capital + €4 m illion ). Glycom is a Danish company with more than 150 
employees, founded in 2005, and is the only fully -integrated HMO provider in the world. The company sales are 
predominantly with Nestlé  and are governed by a mu tually beneficial long -term contract with firmly committed volumes 
also covering the mid -term horizon.  
In accordance with IFRS 3 (Business Combinations), the purchase price was allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities 
acquired, resulting in a non -tax-deductible goodwill amount of €340  million , technology intangible assets of €360  million 
and customer relationships of €80  million. 
The acquisition of Glycom contributed €43  million to net sales , -€5 million to operating profit and €21 million to Adjust ed 
EBITDA during a period of nine months  in 2020. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2020, additional net sales 
would have been approximately €58  million , operating profit -€7 million and Adjusted EBITDA €27  million.  
Erber Group 
On 1 October 2020 , DSM Nutritional Products acquired 100% of the shares of the Erber Group’s specialty animal nutrition 
and health businesses, Biomin and Romer Labs, for an enterprise value of € 980 million . The Erber Group specializes 
primarily in mycotoxin risk management , gut health performance management, and food and feed safety diagnostic 
solutions, expanding DSM’s range of higher value -add specialty solutions. With state -of-the-art research and Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  210  manufacturing facilities and approximately 1, 400 employees around the worl d, the acquisition of Erber Group is a unique 
strategic opportunity that provides revenue-enhancing synergies from the combined offering, global customer base, and 
complementary geographic strengths.  
In accordance with IFRS 3, the purchase price amounting to €884  million was provisionally allocated to identifiable assets 
and liabilities acquired  and is based on a draft initial purchase price allocation prepared by an independent valuator. 
Completion of the independent valuation process is expected in the second quarter of 2021. Main intangibles provisionally recognized are customer relationships for about €243  million and technology for €106  million . The acquisition is expected 
to result in non -tax-deductible goodwill to the amount of  €522 million.  
The acquisition of the Erber Group contributed €81  million to net sales , €7 million to operating profit  and €18 million to 
Adjusted EBITDA during a period of three months  in 2020. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2020, additional net 
sales would have been approximately €328  million , operating profit €34 million  and Adjusted EBITDA €76  million. 
Total acquisitions  
In aggregate , the acquisitions in 2020 contribute d €124 million to net sales , €2 million to operating profit and €39 million to 
Adjusted EBITDA.  If all acquisitions had occurred on 1 January 2020, additional net sales would have been approximately 
€386  million , operating profit €27 million  and Adjusted E BITDA €103  million. 
Finalization PPAs of CSK and Yimante  
In the reporting year, the Purchase Price Allocation (PPA) for CSK was finalized, resulting in an allocation of € 89 million to 
intangible assets mainly for customer relations and technology (strains and cultures database), and a decrease of the goodwill amount from €114 million to €26  million. The PPA of Yimante was finalized in 2020, but the changes were not 
material.  
The goodwill recognized for the CSK acquisition is for the major part deductible ag ainst  corporate income tax in the 
Netherlands . The goodwill recognized for the other acquisitions in 2020 is not deductible against  corporate income tax.  
Valuation techniques intangible assets  
Part of a Purchase Price Allocation is the recognition of intan gible assets which are recognized apart from goodwill . The 
valuation techniques DSM used for measuring the fair value of these intangible assets in 2020 were as follows:  
The acquired t echnology was valued by applying the multi -period excess earnings method  (MEEM) considering the present 
value of net cash flows expected to be generated by the technology and customer relationships; and by applying the relief-from -royalty method, an income approach whereby the value of an asset is estimated by capitalizing the  royalties saved as 
a result of owning the asset . 
The fair values of customer relationships and supply agreements were determined by applying the MEEM and via the replacement cost approach, measuring the cost necessary to (hypothetically) recreate these in tangible assets.  
Trade names  and databases  were valued applying the relief -from -royalty method . 
Acquisitions 20 20 
The accounting of the acquisitions upon closing in 2020, and the changes to the provisional accounting of the acquisitions closed in 2019, impacted DSM’s consolidated balance sheet 2020 as shown in below table (measured at the date of acquisition).  
  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  211   
Erber Group  
(provisional)  Glycom  CSK 
(PPA adj.)  Other  
(PPA adj.)  Total  
 Book 
value  Fair 
value  Book 
value  Fair 
value  Fair 
value  Fair 
value  Book 
value  Fair 
value  
Assets          
Intangible assets  23  380  37  444  89  (3) 60  910  
Property, plant and equipment  115  124  86  91  (1) (1) 201  213  
Other non -current assets  10  10  2  2  -  (1) 12  11  
Inventories  46  49  7  6  5  -  53  60  
Receivables  80  80  3  3  -  -  83  83  
Cash and cash equivalents  25  25  7  7  -  -  32  32  
Total assets  299  668  142  553  93  (5) 441  1,309   
Non-controlling interests and liabilities          
Non-controlling interests  -  -  -  -  -  (1) -  (1) 
Non-current liabilities  94  194  48  146  5  (1) 142  344  
Current liabilities  112  112  51  52  -  -  163  164  
Total non -controlling interests and liabilities  206  306  99  198  5  (2) 305  507  
Net assets  93  362  43  355  88  (3) 136  802  
Acquisition price (in cash)   814   695  -  -   1,509   
Acquisition price (payable)   70   -  -  -   70  
Consideration   884   695  -  -   1,579   
Goodwill   522   340  (88) 3   777  
Acquisition costs recognized in APM adjustments   14   11  8  6   39  
Assets and liabilities held for sale and Discontinued operations  
Following the agreement that was signed on 30 September 2020 to sell the Resins & Functional Materials and associated 
businesses (together ‘ RFM’) to Covestro AG, DSM reclassified  on the same date the results of these businesses (the 
‘disposal group’)  to ‘discontinued operations’ , and reclassified all related  assets and liabilities as held for sale . 
These reclassified business results include also intercompany recharges that will cease to be earned/incurred on disposal of RFM. Corporate costs have been excluded from the reclassification to  discontinued operations.  The comparative 
numbers in the Income statement and OCI are re- presented as if the operation had been discontinued from th e start of 
the comparative year 2019. The related assets and liabilities of the disposal group on 31 December 2020 have been reclassified as held for sale. Completion of the announced transaction, which is subject to the customary conditions and approvals,  is expected in the first half of 2021. Before reclassification, these activities were reported in the segment 
Materials , apart from the solar coatings activities which were reported in Innovation . 
Impact on balance sheet 
The impact of the reclassification of these activities on the DSM consolidated balance sheet is presented in the following 
table.  
x € million  2020   
Assets   
Non-current assets   
Intangible assets  437  
Property, plant and equipment  353  
Other non -current assets  12  
Current assets   
Inventories  116  
Receivables  178  
Total assets  1,096   
Liabilities   
Non-current liabilities  31  
Current liabilities  223  
Total liabilities  254  
Net assets  842  
 Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  212  Impact on comprehensive income  
The impact of the business that has been reclassified as held for sale on the income statement and statement of 
comprehensive income, is presented in the below tables.  
 2020  2019 
 Continuing  
operations  Discontinued  
operations  Total   Continuing  
operations  Discontinued  
operations  Total    
Net sales  8,106   932  9,038   7,998   1,012  9,010   
Adjusted EBITDA  1,534   116  1,650   1,551  133  1,684   
EBITDA  1,368   108  1,476   1,457  129  1,586   
Total expenses  7,444   858  8,302   7,126  930  8,056   
Adjusted operating profit  929  82  1,011   989  86  1,075   
Operating profit  662  74  736  872  82  954  
Financial income and expense  (67) -  (67) (92) -  (92) 
Profit before income tax expense  595  74  669  780  82  862  
Income tax expense  (106)  (23) (129)  (145) (7) (152) 
Results related to associates and joint 
ventures  (32) -  (32) 54  -  54  
Net profit for the year  457  51  508  689  75  764  
Of which:        
- Attributable to non -controlling 
interests  (2) 4  2  4  2  6  
- Dividend on cumulative preference 
shares  7  -  7  8  -  8  
- Available to holders of ordinary shares  452  47  499  677  73  750  
Earnings per share (EPS)        
- Net basic EPS  2.64  0.27  2.91  3.85  0.42  4.27  
- Net diluted EPS  2.62  0.27  2.89  3.83  0.41  4.24  
 
 
 2020   2019  
Net profit from discontinued operations  51  75  
Other comprehensive income    
Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans  (1) (2) 
Tax related items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss  -  -  
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss  (1) (2)    
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations    
- Change for the year  (4) 5  
Hedging reserve    
- Change for the year  1  3  
Tax related items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss -  (1) 
Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss  (3) 7  
.   
Total comprehensive income discontinued operations  47  80  
Of which:    
- Attributable to non -controlling interests  4  2  
- Available to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V.  43  78  
   Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  213  Impact on cash flow statement 
The impact of the business that has been reclassified to held for sale on the cash flow statement is presented in the 
following table.  
 2020   2019  
Net cash provided by / (used in):    
- Operating activities  134  120  
- Investing activities  (47) (59) 
Net change in cash and cash equivalents  87  61  
Other changes  
In 20 20, the following changes in DSM ’s share in subsidiaries occurred without impacting the classification of the 
participations. 
in € 2020   2019  
Zhejiang DSM Zhongken Biotechnology Co., Ltd.  100.0%  60.0%  
DSM (Jiangsu) Biotechnology Co., Ltd.  100.0%  96.9%  
DSM Amulix VoF  72.0%  51.0%  
4 Segment information  
DSM’s operating segment s are Nutrition, Materials and the Innovation Center. DSM has segmented its operations by 
business activity from which revenues are earned and expenses incurred. These operating results are regularly reviewed by the entity’s chief operating decision maker (CODM) to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance. DSM uses Adjusted EBITDA as the main indicator to evaluate the consolidated performance as well as the performance per segment. Discrete financial information is available for each identified segment. The accounting 
policies of the operating segments are the same as those described in the Summary of significant accounting policies
. 
Transactions between segments are generally executed at market -based prices. Interest income, interest expense, and 
income tax expense or income are not allocated to segments as these amounts  are not included in the measure of 
segment profit or loss reviewed by the CODM, or otherwise regularly provided to the CODM.  
Nutrition serves the global industries for animal feed, food & beverages, pharmaceuticals, infant nutrition, dietary 
supplements, and personal care. It does so by the production of pure active ingredients, their incorporation into sophisticated forms, and the provision of tailored premixes and forward solutions.  
Materials is a global player in specialty plastics, which are used in components for the electrical and electronics, automotive, flexible food -packaging, and consumer goods industries. Furthermore, Materials is a global player in providing 
innovative and sustainable ultra -strong, ultra -light Dyneema® fiber and fabrics.  
The Innovation Center focuses on innovation and the growth of DSM’s existing core business through adjacent technologies via its Corporate Research Program as well as through the company’s venturing and licensing activities. Additionally, it identifies and invests in new and innovative growth options. The Innovation Center is responsible for developing and extracting value from DSM’s Emerging Business Areas.  
Any consolidated activities outside the three reported segments are reported as ‘Corporate Activities’. These mainly comprise operating and service activities as well as several costs that cannot be allocated to the operating segments.  
DSM does not have a single external customer that represents 10% or more of total sales.  
  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  214  Geographical informatio n 
 
 Nether - 
lands    Switzer - 
land Rest of 
Europe  North 
America  Latin 
America  China  Rest of  
Asia Rest of  
the world  Total  
2019          
Net sales by origin           
In € million  1,593   2,098   766  1,370  722  875  470  104  7,998   
In % 20  26  10  17  9  11  6  1  100  
Net sales by destination           
In € million  321  137  2,108   1,804   1,095   949  1,310  274  7,998   
In % 4  2  26  23  14  12  16  3  100  
Workforce at year -end (headcount)1 3,960   2,275  3,433   3,346   2,134   4,960   1,774  292  22,174   
Average workforce (FTE)1 3,785   2,192   3,346   3,336   2,232   4,515   1,691  293  21,390   
Intangible assets and Property, plant and 
equipment           
Capital expenditure  131  117  95  116  22  74  6  3  564  
Carrying amount  2,052   1,437  678  1,946   380  822  208  32  7,555   
Total assets  4,111  2,157  1,108   2,874   944  1,406   732  111  13,443   
.          
2020  
Net sales by origin           
In € million  1,515  2,260   1,042   1,380   608  885  336  80  8,106   
In % 19  28  13  17  7  11  4  1  100  
Net sales by destination           
In € million  407  214  2,125  1,791  1,045   991  1,268   265  8,106   
In % 5  3  26  22  13  12  16  3  100  
Workforce at year -end (headcount)1 3,858   2,129   4,384   3,185   2,243   5,025   1,996   307  23,127   
Average workforce (FTE)1 3,708   2,135  3,625   3,195   2,108   4,950   1,803   291  21,815   
Intangible assets and Property, plant and 
equipment           
Capital expenditure  110  159  114  76  15  93  4  2  573  
Carrying amount  1,665   1,452   2,060   1,742  282  810  188  30  8,229   
Total assets (including assets held for sale)    4,135   2,125  2,643   2,552   776  1,382   639  112  14,364   
1 Refers to total group, including discontinued operations  
  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  215  Business segments 
2020  Nutrition  Materials  Innovation 
Center  Corporate 
Activities  Eliminations  Total  
Financial performance        
Net sales  6,365   1,518  184  39  -  8,106   
Supplies to other clusters  53  8  21   (82) -  
Supplies  6,418   1,526   205  39  (82) 8,106   
.       
Adjusted EBITDA1 1,338   272  21  (97) -  1,534   
EBITDA  1,211  249  6  (98) -  1,368   
Adjusted operating profit1 919  168  (17) (141) -  929  
Operating profit  792  145  (133) (142) -  662  
Depreciation and amortization  407  99  38  43  -  587  
Impairments  13  4  101  1  -  119  
- of which included in APM adjustments  -  -  101  -  -  101  
Additions to provisions  70  19  8  7  -  104  
Result related to associates and joint ventures  (1) -  (84) 53  -  (32) 
R&D costs2 169  60  145  24  -  398  
Employee benefit costs  1,102  226  83  273  -  1,684   
Financial position        
Total assets  9,495   1,035   599  2,139   1,096³  14,364   
Total liabilities  2,469   379  37  3,738   254³ 6,877   
Capital employed at year -end 8,308   953  436  -  -  9,697   
Capital expenditure  441  63  35  34  -  573  
Share in equity of associates and joint ventures  30  3  2  58  -  93  
Adjusted EBITDA margin (in %)  21.0  17.9     18.9  
Workforce        
Average in fte  14,535   2,852   613  2,012   1,803³  21,815   
Year-end (headcount)  15,838   2,857   579  2,039   1,814³  23,127   
1 See Note 2 Alternative performance measures  for the reconciliation to Adjusted EBITDA of € 1,534  million (2019: €1, 551 million) and other 
IFRS performance measures. 
2 R&D costs relate to the functional area Research & Development and exclude R&D costs included in the functional areas Cost of  sales 
and Marketing & Sales as well as R&D expenditure capitalized.  
3 The figures presented under ‘eliminations’ relate to the assets and liabilities reclassified as held for sale and the workfor ce for the 
discontinued operations.  
 
  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  216  Business segments 
2019 Nutrition  Materials  Innovation 
Center  Corporate 
Activities  Eliminations  Total  
Financial performance        
Net sales  6,028   1,744   184  42  -  7,998   
Supplies to other clusters  50  4  19   (73) -  
Supplies  6,078   1,748   203  42  (73) 7,998   
.       
Adjusted EBITDA  1,250   372  26  (97) -  1,551  
EBITDA  1,224   360  22  (149)  -  1,457  
Adjusted operating profit  881  270  (12) (150)  -  989  
Operating profit  832  258  (16) (202)  -  872  
Depreciation and amortization  350  100  35  41  -  526  
Impairments  42  2  3  12  -  59  
- of which included in APM adjustments  23  -  -  -  -  23  
Additions to provisions  8  11  2  50  -  71  
Results related to associates and joint ventures  7  -  (2) 49  -  54  
R&D costs1 148  61  54  32  -  295  
Employee benefit costs  1,062   221  88  286  -  1,657  
Financial position        
Total assets  8,324   2,238   776  2,105   -  13,443   
Total liabilities  2,119  628  57  2,804   -  5,608   
Capital employed at year -end 6,731  1,060   599  38  -  8,428   
Capital expenditure  420  84  30  30  -  564  
Share in equity of associates and joint ventures  29  3  74  49  -  155  
Adjusted EBITDA margin (in %)  20.7  21.3     19.4  
Workforce        
Average in fte  13,874   2,988   663  2,042   1,823²  21,390   
Year-end (headcount)  14,599   2,951   683  2,087   1,854²  22,174   
1 R&D costs relate to the functional area Research & D evelopment and exclude R&D costs included in the functional areas Cost of sales 
and Marketing & S ales as well as R&D expenditure capitaliz ed. 
2 The figures presented under ‘eliminations’ relate to the workforce for the discontinued operations.  
5 Net sales and costs (continuing operations)  
Net sales  
 2020   2019  
Goods sold  7,931  7,821  
Services rendered  158  159  
Royalties  17  18  
Total  8,106   7,998   
 
Fulfillment of the performance obligations related to goods sold is measured using the commercial shipment terms as an 
indicator for the transfer of control. Fulfillment of the performance obligations for services rendered is identified according to the individual contract. The payment terms are determined per business segment on a customer basis. DSM has neither specific obligations for returns or refunds, nor specific warranties or other related obligations.  
  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  217  Disaggregation of net sales 
 2020   2019  
Nutrition    
- Animal Nutrition & Health  3,025   2,892   
- Human Nutrition & Health  2,143   2,046   
- Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients  404  425  
- Other  145  93  
DSM Nutritional Products  5,717  5,456   
DSM Food Specialties  648  572  
Total Nutrition  6,365   6,028   
Materials    
DSM Engineering Materials  1,217  1,406   
DSM Protective Materials  301  338  
Total Materials  1,518   1,744   
Innovation Center  184  184  
Corporate Activities  39  42  
Total  8,106   7,998   
Total costs  
In 2020, total operating costs amounted to €7.4 billion,  €0.3 billion higher than in 2019, when these costs stood at €7.1 
billion. Total operating costs in 2020 included Cost of sales amounting to €5.3  billion (2019: €5 .2 billion); gross margin as a 
percentage of net sales stood at 34 % (2019: 35 %). 
Employee benefit costs  
 2020   2019  
Wages and salaries  1,373  1,347  
Social security costs  164  172  
Pension costs (see also Note 24)  118  104  
Share -based compensation (see also Note 27)  29  34  
Total  1,684   1,657   
 
Depreciation, amortization and impairments  
 2020   2019  
Amortization of intangible assets  193  167  
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment owned  344  311  
Depreciation of right -of-use assets  50  48  
Impairment losses  119  59  
Total  706  585  
 
  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  218  Other operating income  
 2020   2019  
Release of provisions  11  6  
Gain on sale of assets and activities  -  7  
Insurance benefits  29  16  
Amendments / settlements to pension plans  -  16  
Earn-out payments and other settlements  7  47  
Release translation reserve  -  11  
Legal and other settlements  23  8  
Sundry  32  31  
Total  102  142  
 
Other operating expense  
 2020   2019  
Additions to provisions  93  67  
Exchange differences  18  9  
Acquisitions / Disposals  55  11  
Sundry  34  20  
Total  200  107  
6 Financial income and expense  
 2020   2019  
Financial income    
Interest income  17  9  
Fair value change in derivatives  27  20  
Unwinding of discounted receivables  -  1  
Total financial income  44  30  
Financial expense    
Interest expense  (90) (92) 
Interest relating to lease liabilities  (6) (7) 
Interest relating to defined benefit plans  (4) (7) 
Capitalized interest during construction  6  3  
Exchange differences  (4) (2) 
Unwinding of discounted payables  (4) (8) 
Sundry  (9) (9) 
Total financial expense  (111) (122)  
Financial income and expense  (67) (92) 
 
In 2020, the interest rate applied in the capitalization of interest during construction was 3% (2019: 3%).
7 Income tax  
The income tax expense on continuing operations was € 106 million, which represents an effective income tax rate of 17.9 % 
(2019:  €145 million, representing an effective income tax rate of 18.6 %). The amount excludes tax expense from 
discontinued operations of € 23 million (2019: € 7 million) and can be broken down as follows . 
  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  219   2020   2019  
Current tax expense:    
- Current year  (155) (72) 
- Prior -year adjustments  8  (12) 
- Tax credits compensated  4  3  
- Non-recoverable withholding tax  (2) (1) 
Total current tax expense  (145)  (82) 
Deferred tax expense:    
- Originating from temporary differences and their reversal  47  (10) 
- Tax benefit from innovation facilities  -  14  
- Prior -year adjustments  (5) 2  
- Change in tax rate  (2) (26) 
Changes arising from (reversal of) write -down of deferred tax 
assets  (3) (3) 
- Other changes in tax losses and tax credits  2  (40) 
Total deferred tax expense  39  (63) 
Total tax expense  (106)  (145)  
Of which related to:    
Taxable result excl. APM adjustments  (160)  (171) 
APM adjustments  54  26  
 
The relationship between the income tax rate in t he Netherlands and the effective tax rate on the taxable result excluding 
APM adjustments can be explained as follows . 
Effective tax rate  
In % 2020   2019  
Domestic income tax rate  25.0  25.0  
Tax effects of:    
- Deviating rates  (5.2) (7.3) 
- Change in tax rates  0.2  2.8  
- Tax-exempt income and non -deductible expense  (2.4) (1.5) 
- Other effects  0.9  0.1  
Effective tax rate taxable result, excl. APM adjustments  18.5  19.1  
APM adjustments (see Note 2)  (0.6) (0.5) 
Total effective tax rate  17.9  18.6  
 The total effective tax rate on the taxable result in 2020 was 17.9% (2019: 18.6%), excluding APM adjustments this was 18.5% 
(2019: 19.1%).  
The effective tax rate in 2020 was positively impacted by the geographical spread and the tax -exempt income under local 
tax law in various countries.   
The decrease of the effective tax rate from 2019 to 2020 was mainly due to t he one -time impact  on the deferred tax 
position caused by the increase of the tax rate in Switzerland  in 2019, partly compensated by the decreasing effect of the 
geographical spread and the lower  tax benefits from innovation facilities.  
The balance of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities increased by €115 million owing to the changes 
presented in the following table.  
  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  220  Deferred tax assets and liabilities  
 2020   2019  
Balance at 1 January    
Deferred tax assets  217  248  
Deferred tax liabilities  (296)  (254)  
Total  (79) (6) 
Changes:    
- Income tax income / (expense) in income statement  45  (35) 
- Income tax: change in tax percentage  (4) (26) 
- Income tax: tax result share in associates  22  -  
Total income statement  63  (61) 
- Income tax expense in OCI  (1) 5  
- Acquisitions and disposals  (188)  (20) 
- Exchange differences  11  (6) 
- Reclassification to held for sale  (2) -  
- Transfer  2  9  
Balance at 31 December  (194)  (79) 
Of which:    
- Deferred tax assets  239  217  
- Deferred tax liabilities  (433)  (296)  
 
In various countries, DSM has taken standpoints regarding its tax position which may at any time be challenged, or have 
already been challenged, by the tax authorities, because the authorities in question interpret the law differently. These uncertainties are taken into account in determining the probability of realization of deferred tax assets and liabilities.  
The deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to the following balance sheet items.  
Deferred tax assets and liabilities by balance sheet item  
 2020  2019 
 Deferred tax     
assets    Deferred tax    
liabilities    Deferred tax    
assets    Deferred tax    
liabilities    
Intangible assets  21  (350)  8  (184)  
Property, plant and equipment  27  (173) 27  (182) 
Right -of-use assets  -  (44) 3  (47) 
Financial assets  28  (15) 7  (10) 
Inventories  51  (42) 44  (40) 
Receivables  14  (24) 8  (21) 
Equity  -  -  -  -  
Lease liabilities non -current  33  -  36  (1) 
Other non -current liabilities  12  (2) 9  (2) 
Non-current provisions  94  (4) 100  (5) 
Other current liabilities  66  (6) 86  (4) 
Lease liabilities current  10  -  11  -  
 356  (660)  339  (496)  
Tax losses carried forward  110   78   
Set-off (227) 227  (200)  200  
Total  239  (433)  217  (296)  
 No deferred tax assets were recognized for loss carryforwards amounting to € 267 million (2019: €273 million).  Unrecognized  
loss carryforwards amounting to €134 million will expire in the years up to and including 2025 (2019: €104 million up to and including 2024), €71  million between  2026 and 20 30 (2019: €87 million between 2025 and 2029) and the remaining € 62 
million in 2031 and beyond (2019: €82 million between 2030 and beyond). Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  221  The valuation of deferred tax assets depends on the probability of the reversal of temporary differences and the utilization 
of tax loss carryforwards, tax credits and withholding tax. Deferred tax ass ets are recognized for future tax benefits arising 
from temporary differences and for tax loss carryforwards to the extent that the tax benefits are probable. In the Netherlands, tax losses may be carried forward for six years. DSM has to assess the likeli hood that deferred tax assets will 
be recovered from future taxable profits. Deferred tax assets are reduced if, and to the extent that, it is not probable that  
all or some portion of the deferred tax assets will be realized. In the event that actual futur e results differ from estimates, 
and depending on tax strategies that DSM may be able to implement, changes to the measurement of deferred taxes could be required, which could have an impact on the company's financial position and profit for the year.
8 Intangible assets  
 Goodwi ll Licenses 
and patents  Under 
construction  Development 
projects  Other  Total  
Balance at 1 January 2019        
Cost 1,927  206  50  296  1,776  4,255   
Amortization and impairment losses    18  99  -  43  1,005   1,165   
Carrying amount  1,909   107  50  253  771  3,090   
Changes in carrying amount:        
- Capital expenditure  -  1  50  51  8  110  
- Put into operation  -  4  (26) -  22  -  
- Acquisitions  338  1  -  -  124  463  
- Amortization  -  (13) -  (26) (136) (175) 
- Impairment losses  -  (2) -  (21) (8) (31) 
- Exchange differences  36  2  1  4  12  55  
- Other reclassifications  -  -  (4) 6  1  3  
 374  (7) 21  14  23  425  
Balance at 31 December 2019        
Cost 2,301   216  71  338  1,966   4,892   
Amortization and impairment losses    18  116  -  71  1,172  1,377  
Carrying amount  2,283   100  71  267  794  3,515   
.       
Changes in carrying amount:        
- Capital expenditure  -  1  77  42  43  163  
- Put into operation  -  11  (59) -  48  -  
- Acquisitions  777  3  36  34  837  1,687   
- Amortization  -  (13) -  (35) (152) (200)  
- Impairment losses  (20) (14) -  (74) (2) (110)  
- Exchange differences  (138) (2) -  -  (28) (168)  
- Reclassification to held for sale  (387)  (3) (1) (28) (18) (437)  
- Other  -  (2) (9) 17  (1) 5  
 232  (19) 44  (44) 727  940  
Balance at 31 December 2020        
Cost 2,535   202  115  380  2,621   5,853   
Amortization and impairment losses    20  121  -  157  1,100   1,398   
Carrying amount  2,515   81  115  223  1,521   4,455   
 The amortization of intangible assets is included in Cost of sales, Marketing & S ales, Research & D evelopment and General 
& Administrative expenses.  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  222  Over the past few years, DSM has acquired several entities in business combinations that have been accounted for by the 
acquisition method, resulting in recognition of goodwill and other intangible assets. The amounts assigned to the acquired assets and li abilities are based on assumptions and estimates about their fair values. In making these estimates, 
management consults independent, qualified appraisers if appropriate.  
The impairment losses in 2020 are €110 million. This includes a €67 million impairme nt of mainly intangible assets 
previously reported in the Innovation segment relating to DSM  Bio- based Products  & Services , owing to an expected  
subdued market outlook for biofuels  which led to insufficient expected future cash flows.  Consequently, the recoverable 
amount is measured at fair value minus costs of disposal, which was assessed to be of immaterial value to DSM. Furthermore, the impairment losses include the impairment of  €38 million relating to DSM  Advanced  Solar on its solar 
assets previously reported in the Innovation segment,  following the sale  of the solar coating activities  to Covestro  AG. This 
led to insufficient expected future cash flows for the remaining solar assets, primarily consisting of goodwill and 
technology. Therefore, the recoverable amount for these assets is measured at fair value minus costs of disposal, which is assessed to be of immaterial value to DSM.  
The breakdown of the carrying amount of goodwill at year- end 2020 is as follows.  
Goodwill per acquisition  
Acquisition  2020   2019   
Cash generating unit  Functional 
Currency  Year of 
acquisition  
Erber Group1 521  -   DSM Nutritional Products  EUR 2020 
Martek  378  413   DSM Nutritional Products  USD 2011 
Glycom1 341  -   DSM Nutritional Products  DKK 2020 
Fortitech  283  310   DSM Nutritional Products  USD 2012 
Ocean Nutrition Canada  190  204   DSM Nutritional Products  CAD 2012 
Kensey Nash  132  144   DSM Biomedical  USD 2012 
Andre Pectin  131  135   DSM Food Specialties  CNY 2019 
Tortuga  62  89   DSM Nutritional Products  BRL 2013 
Royal CSK  26  114   DSM Food Specialties  EUR 2019 
NeoResins2 -  358   DSM Resins & Functional Materials  EUR 2005 
Other acquisitions2 451  516      
Total  2,515   2,283       
1 Based on provisional PPA, see Note 3 Change in the scope of consolidation . 
2 As per 31 December 2020, goodwill has been reclassified to assets held for sale for an amount of € 387 million (NeoResins € 358 million, 
Other acquisitions € 29 million), see Note 3 Change in the scope of consolidation . 
Goodwill per Cash generating unit  
Cash generating unit  2020   2019  
DSM Nutritional Products  2,018¹  1,260¹  
DSM Food Specialties  227  321  
DSM Biomedical  203  222  
DSM Protective Materials  40  42  
DSM Engineering Materials  27  29  
DSM Resins & Functional Materials2 -  384  
DSM Advanced Solar  -  16  
DSM Bio -based Products & Services  -  9  
Total  2,515   2,283   
1 Contains provisional PPA, see Note 3 Change in the scope of consolidation . 
2 As per 31 December 2020, goodwill has been reclassified to assets  
held for sale for an amount of €387 million , Note 3 Change in the scope of consolidation .  
 
The annual impairment tests of goodwill are performed in the four th quarter. The recoverable amount of the Cash 
generating units (CGUs), except for the previously mentioned CGUs DSM Bio -based Products & Services and DSM Advanced 
Solar, is based on a value -in-use calculation. DSM Nutritional Products is the CGU to which a significant amount of Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  223  (provisional) goodwill is allocated. In 2020 goodwill from DSM Hydrocolloids (DHC) was re -allocated to DSM Food 
Specialties due to further integration of the organization. The comparative figures have been adjusted accordingly.  
The cash flow projections are derived from DSM’s business plan (Corporate Strategy Dialogue) as adopted by the Managing 
Board and updated on a yearly basis. Mature businesses come to a terminal value after five years. The terminal value growth rate is dete rmined with the assumption of limited inflationary growth. For emerging businesses, an explicit forecast 
period of ten years is used with the same assumption for growth in the terminal value. The key assumptions in the cash flow projections relate to the m arket growth for the CGUs and the related revenue projections, EBITDA developments, and 
the rates used for discounting cash flows.  
Key assumptions for goodwill impairment tests 
 2020   2019  
Forecast period (years)    
- Mature business  5  5  
- Emerging business  10  10  
Terminal value growth  1%  1% 
Pre-tax discount rate    
- DSM Nutritional Products  9.1%   8.1%   
Organic sales growth    
DSM Nutritional Products    
- Year 1 —5 4-7%   2-6%   
 For DSM Nutritional Products the growth assumptions are based on the growth of the global food and feed markets . A 
sensitivity test was performed on the impairment tests of the CGUs and showed that the conclusions of these tests would not have been different if reasonable possible adverse change in key parameters had been assumed.  
The market capitalization of DSM at 31 December 2020 amounted to € 25,545 million (31 December 2019: €21,063 million)  and 
was clearly above the carrying amount of net assets, thus providing an additional indication that goodwill was not impaired. 
Development costs  
The carrying amount of development costs at 31 December 2020 included €136 million (2019: €125 million) mainly relating 
to strategic projects which are not being amortized yet. The recoverable amount of these CGUs was estimated based on the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the CGUs (value-in- use).  
Other intangible assets  
 
    2020   2019  
 Cost Amortization  Carrying 
amount  Of which    
acquisition-   
related    Of which    
acquisition-   
related    
Application software  315  (217) 98  62  2  
Marketing -related  111  (41) 70  70  81  
Customer -related  1,001   (381) 620  620  311  
Technology -based  626  (174) 452  429  89  
Drawing rights  244  (88) 156  -  -  
Other  324  (199)  125  109  63  
Total  2,621   (1,100)  1,521   1,290   546  
Total 2019  1,966   (1,172)  794  546   
 Other intangible assets include (partially provisional) customer relationships, which were obtained during the acquisition of Erber Group and Glycom in 2020, as well as CSK in 2019 and Fortitech in 2012. Technology- based intangibles were mainly 
obtained via the acquisition of Erber Group and Glycom in 2020 and CSK in 2019. Intangible assets are included in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  224  annual goodwill impairment test as discussed in this section; they are amortized on a straight -line basis. There are no 
intangible assets with an indefinite useful life (same as in 2019).  The acquisition -related numbers 2019 have been adjusted 
for comparison reasons . 
Other intangible assets also include drawing rights contracts with Fibrant. Fibrant will continue to supply at le ast 80% of 
DSM Engineering Materials’ caprolactam needs in Europe and North America for 15 years (2015 –2030) via a drawing rights 
contract, effectively maintaining DSM Engineering Materials’ backward integration. Initially the fair value of this contract 
has been recognized as an intangible asset by DSM Engineering Materials; for subsequent measurement, the initial fair 
value is the deemed cost of the asset, which is subject to straight -line amortization. At the end of 2020, it had a carrying 
amount of €156  million (2019: €167 million), a remaining useful life of 10 years, and an amount of €39 million was still 
payable to Fibrant for the acquisition of the drawing rights (2019: €44 million).
9 Property, plant and equipment  
Composition of Property, plant and equipment  
 2020   2019  
Property, plant and equipment owned  3,566   3,808   
Right -of-use assets  208  232  
Total  3,774   4,040   
 
  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  225  Property , plant and equipment owned  
 Land and 
buildings Plant and 
machinery  Other 
equipment  Under 
construction  Not used 
for 
operating 
activities  Total  
Balance at 1 January 2019        
Cost 2,104   4,618   226  689  12  7,649   
Depreciation and impairments  952  3,030   170  1  6  4,159   
Carrying amount at 1 January 2019  1,152   1,588   56  688  6  3,490   
Changes in carrying amount:        
- Capital expenditure  7  45  4  457  -  513  
- Put into operation  82  401  15  (498)  -  -  
- Acquisitions  48  77  2  12  -  139  
- Disposals  (3) -  -  -  -  (3) 
- Depreciation  (75) (255)  (17) -  -  (347)  
- Impairment losses  (18) (10) (1) -  -  (29) 
- Exchange differences  18  22  1  12  -  53  
- Other changes  -  -  -  (8) -  (8) 
 59  280  4  (25) -  318  
Balance at 31 December 2019        
Cost 2,232   5,019   235  664  12  8,162   
Depreciation and impairments  1,021  3,151  175  1  6  4,354   
Carrying amount at 31 December 2019  1,211  1,868   60  663  6  3,808   
.       
Changes in carrying amount:        
- Capital expenditure  10  58  5  386  -  459  
- Put into operation  84  350  15  (449)  -  -  
- Acquisitions  94  90  10  8  2  204  
- Disposals  -  (1) -  -  -  (1) 
- Depreciation  (81) (269)  (20) -  -  (370)  
- Impairment losses  (4) (12) (1) (3) -  (20) 
- Exchange differences  (53) (82) (3) (22) -  (160)  
- Reclassification to held for sale  (103)  (177) (12) (57) -  (349)  
- Other changes  (1) (1) -  (3) -  (5) 
 (54) (44) (6) (140)  2  (242)  
Balance at 31 December 2020        
Cost 2,098   4,781   192  527  8  7,606   
Depreciation and impairments  941  2,957   138  4  -  4,040   
Carrying amount  1,157  1,824   54  523  8  3,566   
 
In 2020, impairment losses of € 20 million (2019: €29 million) were recognized on Property, plant and equipment. See also 
Note 2 Alternative performance measures . 
  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  226 Right -of-use assets 
Land and 
buildings  Plant and 
machinery  Other 
equipment  Vehicles  Other  Total  
Balance at 1 January 2019 170 10 21 31 4 236 
Changes in carrying amount:  
New leases / terminations  12 - 15 13 (1) 39
Remeasurements  1 - - (2) - (1)
Acquisitions  7 - - 1 - 8
Depreciation  (30) (2) (3) (14) (1) (50)
(10) (2) 12 (2) (2) (4) 
Balance at 31 December 2019  
Cost 189 9 35 42 3 278 
Depreciation and impairments  (29) (1) (2) (13) (1) (46)
Carrying amount at 31 December 2019  160 8 33 29 2 232 
. 
Changes in carrying amount:  
New leases / terminations  10 - - 11 - 21
Remeasurements  12 - 2 (1) - 13 
Acquisitions  8 - - 1 - 9
Depreciation  (33) (1) (3) (14) - (51)
Exchange rate differences  (9) - (1) (2) - (12)
Reclassification to held for sale  (1) - - (3) - (4) 
(13) (1) (2) (8) - (24)
Balance at 31 December 2020  
Cost 199 9 37 39 3 287 
Depreciation and impairments  (52) (2) (6) (18) (1) (79)
Carrying amount  147 7 31 21 2 208 
For the d
isclosures on the lease liabilities that correspond with the right- of-use assets, see Note 19 Borrowings .
10 Associates and joint arrangements  
Associates and joint ventures 
The following table analyses, in aggregate, the carrying amount and share of profit and other results of associates and joint  
ventures.  
2020  2019 
Associates   Joint ventures  Total Total  
Balance at 1 January 82 73 155 205 
- Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures 11 (82) (71) (12) 
- - - 35 
- Other comprehensive income (5) (1) (6) 2 
- Capital payments 1 7 8 30 
- Dividends received (1) - (1) (73) 
- Acquisitions 1 - 1 22 
- Other - 7 7 (54) 
Balance at 31 December 89 4 93 155 
1 In t he Consolidated income s t atement included in ‘ Other r esults related t o associates a nd joint v entures ’. - Other results related to associates and joint ventures1Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated An nual Report 2020  227 In the second quarter of 2020, an impairment test was carried out by the  POET -DSM Advanced Biofuels joint venture, 
triggered by the decision to mothball the second -generation bio -ethanol plant in Emmetsburg (Iowa, USA). While previous 
impairment tests were  based on the value -in-use of POET -DSM, this method wa s no longer applicable due to ceased 
operations , and the recoverable amount was determined based on the fair value minus cost to sell. Given the challenging 
market conditions and the specialized nature of the assets, the fair value minus cost to sell and, hence, the recoverable 
amount was assessed to be negligible. Based on this impairment test, an impairment loss of € 74 million wa s included in 
‘Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures ’ and t he carrying amount of DSM’s share in POET -DSM has been 
reduced to zero.   
Joint operations  
In 2020, DSM and VDL Group established Dutch PPE Solutions  VoF, Eindhoven (Netherlands), a joint operation in which DSM 
and VDL Group each hold a 50% share. Dutch PPE Solutions will establish production of medical face mask s and the first 
permanent production of critical face mask  components in the Netherlands . The plant producing meltblown polypropylene, 
the critical material layer in medical face mask s that filters viruses, is expected to be fully operational in Sittard -Geleen  
(Netherlands)  in April 2021.  
DSM accounts for the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating to Veramaris (2017), Avansya V oF (2019), and Dutch 
PPE Solutions (2020)  in accordance with IFRS 11 for joint op erations  and therefore recognizes the amounts in accordance 
with the contractual entitlement and obligations of DSM.
11 Other financial assets  
Loans 
associates and 
joint ventures  Other 
participating 
interests  Other 
receivables  Other  Total  
Balance at 1 January 2019  2 164 88 9 263 
Changes:  
-Charged to the income statement - - 9 (2) 7
-Acquisitions - - - 1 1 
-Capital payments - 23 - - 23 
-Loans granted / prepayments 4 - 9 - 13
-Repayments (2) - (5) - (7) 
-Exchange differences - - 1 - 1
-Transfers (1) (15) 3 - (13)
-Changes in fair value - (21) - - (21) 
-Other - (1) - (1) (2) 
Balance at 31 December 2019  3 150 105 7 265 
. 
Changes:  
-Charged to the income statement - - - (2) (2)
-Acquisitions - - - 4 4 
-Disposals - (47) - - (47) 
-Capital payments - 11 - - 11 
-Loans granted / prepayments 1 - 8 - 9
-Repayments - - (5) 4 (1) 
-Exchange differences - - (10) - (10)
-Transfers - - (7) (4) (11)
-Changes in fair value - 106 - - 106 
-Other - (1) (6) - (7) 
Balance at 31 December 2020  4 219 85 9 317 
‘D
isposals’ includes the divestment of our other participating interest in probiotic company UAS Laboratories, Inc.  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated An nual Report 2020  228 ‘Changes in fair value’ consists mainly of the value increase of our minority share in Amyris, Inc. (€78 million) and of our 
sh
are in UAS Laboratories, Inc. prior to divestment (€38 million).
12 Inventories  
2020  2019 
Raw materials and consumables  491 524 
Intermediates and finished goods  1,467  1,576 
1,958  2,100  
Adjustments to lower net realizable value  (79) (81) 
Total  1,879  2,019  
Ch
anges in the adjustment to net realizable value  
2020  2019 
Balance at 1 January  (81) (90) 
Additions charged to income statement  (18) (66) 
Utilization / reversals  18 76 
Exchange differences  3 (1) 
Acquisition  (2) - 
Reclassification to held for sale  1 - 
Balance at 31 December  (79) (81) 
Th
e carrying amount of inventories adjusted to net realizable value was € 263 million (2019: €272 million).  
13 Current receivables  
2020  2019 
Trade receivables  
Trade accounts receivable  1,183 1,354  
Other trade receivables  180 202 
Deferred items  45 43 
Receivables from associates  11 10 
1,419  1,609  
Expected credit loss  (28) (17) 
Total Trade receivables  1,391  1,592  
Income tax receivable  35 61 
Other current receivables  
Other taxes and social security contributions  28 31 
Employee -related receivables  2 5 
Acquisition -/disposal - related receivables  4 3 
Loans  16 - 
Other receivables  7 4 
Deferred items  5 2 
Total Other current receivables  62 45 
Total current receivables  1,488  1,698  Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  229 Information about the expected credit loss that relates to trade accounts receivable resulting in a value adjustment is 
incl
uded under Credit risk in Note 23 . 
Deferred items comprised € 50 million (2019:  €45 million) in prepaid expenses that include advance payments for any 
expenditure that would have otherwise been made during the next 12 months.
14 Current investments  
All fix
ed-term deposits have been placed with institutions with a high credit rating in line with our counterparty policy.  The 
purpose of the deposits is either to meet short -term cash commitments, or to manage liquidity to such extent that yields 
are opti mized while allowing DSM sufficient freedom in fulfilling its (strategic) goals.   
In 2020 fixed deposits were reduced as part of the financing of the realized acquisitions . 
For more information regarding the counterparty policy, see Note 23 Financial instruments and risks .
15 Cash and cash equivalents  
Depo
sits will be classified as ‘cash equivalent’ if held at banks with a maturity of less than three months at inception. 
Deposits will be classified as ‘current investments’ if the maturity is more than three months but less than or equal to one year. The purpose of the deposits is either to meet short -term cash commitments, or to manage liquidity to such extent, 
that yields are optimized, while allowing DSM sufficient freedom in fulfilling its (strategic) goals.  
Cash at year -end 2020 was not being used as collateral and therefore was not restricted (same as in 2019).  
In a few countries, DSM faces cross -border foreign exchange controls and/or other legal restrictions that limit its ability to 
make these balances available at short notice for general use by the group. The amount of cash held in these countries was €128 million (2019: €185 million). The cash will generall y be invested or held in the relevant country and, given the 
other liquidity resources available to the group, does not significantly affect the ability of the group to meet its cash obligations.2020  2019 
Fixed term deposits  43 688 
Total  43 688 
2020  2019 
Deposits  28 104 
Money market funds  - 45 
Cash at bank and in hand  836 605 
Payments in transit  5 44 
Bills of exchange  2 2 
Total  871 800 Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  230 16 Equity  
2020  2019 
Balance at 1 January  7,835  7,815  
Net profit for the year  508 764 
Other comprehensive income  (323)  140 
Options / share units granted  29 34 
Dividend  (429)  (418)  
Proceeds from reissue of ordinary shares  206 324 
Acquisition of NCI without a change in control  (32) (4) 
Acquisition (divestment) of subsidiary with NCI  (1) 57 
Repurchase of shares  (309)  (869)  
Other changes  3 (8) 
Balance at 31 December  7,487  7,835  
‘Ac
quisition of NCI without a change in control’  relates to the purchase of the remaining 40% non -controlling interest in 
Zhejiang DSM Zhongken Biotechnology Co., Ltd. See Note 17 Non -controlling interests . 
Dividend 
In 2020, the following dividends were proposed by the Managing Board . 
2020  2019 
Per cumulative preference share A: €0.16 (2019: €0.17)  7 8 
Per ordinary share: €2.40 (2019: €2.40)  413 417 
Total  420 425 
Th
e proposed final dividend on ordinary shares is subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and 
has not been deducted from Equity.  
For a description of the rules of profit appropriation and of the statutory rights attached to preference shares A and B, see  
Note 7  Shareholders’ equity  to the Parent company financial statements . 
Share capital  
On 31 December 2020, the authorized capital amounted to €1,125 million (2019: €1,125 million), distributed over 330,960,000 
ordinary shares, 44,040,000 cumulative preference shares A and 375,000,000 cumulative preference shares B. All shares have a nominal  value of €1.50 each . The outstanding shares are entitled  to one vote per share at the General Meeting of 
Shareholders . All rights attached to the Company’s  shares held by the Group (treasury shares) are suspended until those 
shares are reissued.  
Every year the Managing Board, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, shall decide which part of the profit shall be set aside. Out of the profit remaining, a dividend based on EURIBOR plus a premium at the  company’s discretion , shall be 
distributed i nsofar as possible on the cumulative preference shares B . From the amount remaining of the profit, a dividend 
shall be distributed insofar as possible on the cumulative preference shares A, the percentage based on the  effective 
return on government loans, increased by a mark -up to be determined at the  company’s discretion . If, for any financial 
year, the distributions on the cumulative preference shares B and A cannot be effected or cannot be fully effected because the profit after reservation does not suffice, the deficit shall be distributed to the debit of the following financial years. In that case, each time as much as possible, the overdue dividend, augmented by the dividend for the last expired financial year, shall be distributed, first on cumulative  preference shares B and next on cumulative preference shares A. The 
remaining profit shall be put at the disposal of the General Meeting  of Shareholders.  
The changes in the number of issued and outstanding shares in 2019 and 2020 are shown in the following table.  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  231  Overview of shares  
 Issued shares    Issued shares    Treasury shares    
 Ordinary    Cumprefs A    Ordinary    
Balance at 1 January 2019  181,425,000   44,040,000   5,774,425   
Reissue of shares in connection with share -based 
payments    (3,395,405)  
Repurchase of shares    7,962,936   
Dividend in the form of ordinary shares    (1,365,711)  
Balance at 31 December 2019  181,425,000   44,040,000   8,976,245   
Number of treasury shares at 31 December 2019  (8,976,245)    
Number of shares outstanding at 31 December 2019  172,448,755   44,040,000    
.    
Balance at 1 January 2020  181,425,000   44,040,000   8,976,245   
Reissue of shares in connection with share -based 
payments    (1,460,174)  
Repurchase of shares    2,876,035   
Dividend in the form of ordinary shares    (1,186,445)  
Balance at 31 December 2020  181,425,000   44,040,000   9,205,661   
Number of treasury shares at 31 December 2020  (9,205,661)    
Number of shares outstanding at 31 December 2020  172,219,339   44,040,000    
 
The average number of ordinary shares outstanding in 2020 was 171,535,921  (2019: 175,730,949). All shares issued are fully 
paid.  
The cumulative preference shares A have been classified as equity, because there is no mandatory redemption and distributions to the shareholders are at the discretion of DSM.  
On 31 December 2020, no cumulative preference shares B were outstanding (same as 2019).  
Share premium  
Of the total share premium of €489 million (2019: € 489 million), an amount of €91  million (2019: €93 million) can be 
regarded as entirely free of tax.  
Treasury shares  
In 2020, DSM repurchased 2.9  million shares for an amount of €309  million in order to fulfill its obligations under share -
based compensation plans  (0.9 million), to cover commitme nts for stock dividend ( 0.7 million) and 1.3 million for capital 
reduction. On 12 June 2020, DSM announced that, as a prudent measure given the COVID -19 environment and given the 
acquisition of Erber Group, it had decided to cancel the remainder of its €1 billion share buy -back program.  
At 31 December 2020, DSM possessed 9,205,661  (2019: 8,976,245) ordinary shares with a nominal value of €14  million, or 
4.08% (2019: 3.98%) of the share capital. The average purchase price of the ordinary treasury shares as at 31 December 2020 
was €105.98  (2019: €100.78 ). At 31 December 20 20, 2,460,656  (2019: 3,020,830) of the total number of treasury shares 
outstanding were held for servicing share -option rights and share plans, 106,034  (2019: 592,479) shares for stock dividend, 
and 6,638,971  (2019: 5,362,936) shares earmarked  for capital reduction.  
  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  232  Other reserves  in Shareholders ’ equity 
 Translation 
reserve  Hedging 
reserve  Reserve for 
share -based 
compensation  Fair value 
reserve  Total  
Balance at 1 January 2019  37  (166)  53  21  (55) 
Changes:       
Fair-value changes of derivatives  -  (18) -  -  (18) 
Release to income statement  (9) 66  -  -  57  
Fair-value changes of other financial assets  -  -  -  (21) (21) 
Exchange differences  134  -  -  -  134  
Options and performance shares granted  -  -  34  -  34  
Options and performance shares exercised/canceled    -  -  (36) -  (36) 
Transfer to retained earnings  -  -  -  4  4  
Changes in joint ventures and associates  -  -  -  1  1  
Income tax  -  (4) -  -  (4) 
Total changes  125  44  (2) (16) 151  
Balance at 31 December 2019  162  (122)  51  5  96  
.      
Changes:       
Fair-value changes of derivatives  -  40  -  -  40  
Release to income statement  -  20  -  -  20  
Fair-value changes of other financial assets  -  -  -  106  106  
Exchange differences  (451) -  -  -  (451)  
Options and performance shares granted  -  -  29  -  29  
Options and performance shares exercised/cancelled    -  -  (39) -  (39) 
Transfer to retained earnings  -  -  -  (30) (30) 
Changes in Joint Ventures and associates  (2) -  -  -  (2) 
Income tax  2  (6) -  (8) (12) 
Total changes  (451) 54  (10) 68  (339)  
Balance at 31 December 2020  (289)  (68) 41  73  (243)  
 
The decrease in the Translation reserve in 20 20 is mainly caused by a strengthening of the euro against the US dollar , 
Brazilian real , Chinese renminbi and Canadian dollar . As a consequence, the total value of the subsidiaries de creased, 
which led to a negative exchange difference of -€451 million. 
The Translation reserve, Hedging reserve and Fair value reserve (partly)  are legal reserves in accordance with Dutch law 
and cannot be distributed to shareholders. Additional information is provided in Note 7 Shareholders' equity  to the Parent 
company financial statements.
  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  233  17 Non -controlling interests  
 2020  2019  
 Andre Pectin  Yimante  Other  Total     
% of non -controlling interest  25% 25%    
Balance at 1 January  35  25  44  104  33  
Changes:       
- Share of profit/charged to income statement  2  (2) 2  2  6  
- Acquisitions  -  (1) -  (1) 57  
- Other consolidation changes  -  -  (10) (10) 9  
- Capital payments  -  -  3  3  1  
- Dividend paid  (1) -  (5) (6) (4) 
- Exchange differences  (1) (1) (2) (4) 2  
Total changes  -  (4) (12) (16) 71  
Balance at 31 December  35  21  32  88  104  
 
‘Other consolidation changes ’ relates mainly to the increase of DSM's share in Zhejiang DSM Zhongken Biotechnology Co., 
Ltd. from 60% to 100%.  
Not fully- owned subsidiaries on a 100% basis 
 2020  2019 
 Andre Pectin  Yimante  Other  Total     
Assets       
Intangible assets  61  23  33  117  130  
Property, plant and equipment  44  102  174  320  283  
Other non -current assets  -  23  33  56  57  
Inventories  36  11  23  70  76  
Receivables  22  33  55  110  99  
Cash and cash equivalents  3  1  45  49  41  
Total assets  166  193  363  722  686        
Liabilities       
Provisions (non -current)  14  -  2  16  19  
Borrowings (non -current)  1  78  31  110  64  
Other non -current liabilities  -  2  15  17  19  
Borrowings and derivatives (current)  -  -  100  100  75  
Other current liabilities  9  29  98  136  131  
Total liabilities  24  109  246  379  308  
Net assets (100% basis)  142  84  117  343  378  
Net sales  59  6  141  206  220  
Net profit for the year  (9) 9  12  12  16  
Cash provided by / (used in) operating activities  (23) 20  (26) (29) (55) 
  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  234 18 Provisions  
Restructuring 
costs and 
termination 
benefits  Environmental 
costs  Other long -
term 
employee 
benefits  Other 
provisions Total  
Balance at 1 January 2019 17 58 39 39 153 
Of which current  12 10 3 12 37 
Changes:  
-Additions 43 19 4 5 71 
-Releases (3) (13) - (3) (19) 
-Uses (26) (5) (3) (5) (39) 
-Other change - - 1 1 2 
Total changes  14 1 2 (2) 15
Balance at 31 December 2019  31 59 41 37 168 
Of which current  21 13 4 10 48 
. 
Changes:  
-Additions 86 3 3 12 104 
-Releases (7) (16) - (5) (28) 
-Uses (62) (7) (2) (4) (75) 
-Reclassification to held for sale - - (4) - (4)
-Acquisitions 2 1 3 15 21 
-Other change - - - (2) (2)
Total changes  19 (19) - 16 16 
Balance at 31 December 2020  50 40 41 53 184 
Of which current  42 7 5 7 61 
In ca
ses where the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are measured at the present value of the 
expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation. The discount rate used decreased from 1.2% to 0.7 %. The 
balance of provisions measur ed at present value increased by less than €1 million in 2020 in view of the passage of time 
(same as in 2019).  
The provisions for restructuring costs and termination benefits mainly relate to the costs of redundancy schemes 
connected to the dismissal of employees and costs of termination of contracts. These provisions have an average life of 1 to 3 years.   
During 2020, a restructuring program was launched within DSM Nutritional Products to increase its agility to drive above -
market profitable growth. By simplifying the operating model and further improving business steering, the program aims to better serve customers and respond to the differentiated needs of their respective end -markets. At the same time, it 
creates a more efficient organization. A provision of € 48 million was recognized  for this program , of which €40 million was 
used during the year.  
A rest ructuring initiative within Materials was launched to leverage synergies, increase operating agility and deliver annual 
cost savings of €15 –20 million
. A provision of €19 million was recognized  for this program , of which €2 million was used 
during the year . 
The other additions to the provisions for restructuring costs and termination benefits in 2020 relate mainly to the various 
smaller restructuring projects (same as in 2019).  
The provisions for environmental costs relate to soil clean -up obligations, amon g other things. These provisions have an 
average life of around 10 years.  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  235 The provisions for other long -ter m employee benefits relate mainly to length -of-service and end -of-service payments. The 
average life of this provision is estimated to be between 10 and 12 years.  
Several items have been combined under Other provisions, for example demolition costs, onerous contracts and legal 
claims . These provisions have an average life of 1 to 3 years.
19 Borrowings  
2020  2019 
Total  Of which  
current  Total  Of which  
current  
Debenture loans  3,237  - 2,244  - 
Private loans  81 7 41 8 
Lease liabilities  215 47 236 49 
Credit institutions  53 53 132 132 
Total  3,586  107 2,653  189 
In
 agreements governing loans with a residual amount at year -end 20 20 of €3,237  million (31 December 201 9: €2,244  
million) , negative pledge clauses have been included that restrict the provision of security.  
The documentation of the €500 million bond issued in March 2014, the €500 million bond issued in April 2015, the €500 
million bond issued in September 2015 , the €750 million bond issued in September 2016 , and both €500 million bonds 
issued in June 2020 include  a change -of-control clause. This clause allows the bond investors to request repayment at par 
if 50% or more of the DSM shares are controlled by a third party and if the company is downgraded below investment grade (< BBB- ). In October 2020, Moody ’s affir med DSM ’s credit rating of ‘ A3’ with a stable outlook. Standard & Poor ’s 
affirmed DSM's credit rating of ‘A-‘ with a stable outlook in June 2020. At 31 December 20 20, there was € 1,813 million in 
borrowings outstanding with a remaining term of more than 5 y ears (at 31 December 201 9, €1,265 million). 
The schedule of repayment of borrowings is as follows. 
Borrowings by maturity  
2020  2019 
2020 - 189 
2021 107 49 
2022 548 528 
2023 37 25 
2024 and 2025  1,081  1,036  
After 2025  1,813 826 
Total  3,586  2,653  A breakdown by currency is given in the following table.  
Borrowings by currency  
2020  2019 
EUR 3,351 2,413  
USD 88 101 
CNY 80 74 
TWD 12 6 
BRL 11 15 
Other  44 44 
Total  3,586  2,653  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  236 On balance, total borrowings increased by €933 million due to the following changes.  
Move
ments of borrowings  
2020  2019 
Balance at 1 January  2,653  2,652  
Opening balance lease labilities (adoption IFRS 16)  - 215 
Loans taken up  1,123 7 
Repayments  (268)  (302)  
Unwinding (interest)  7 8 
Acquisitions/consolidation changes  205 29 
Reclassification to held for sale  (4) - 
Changes in debt to credit institutions  (95) 57 
New lease arrangements (incl. remeasurements)  34 39 
Payment of lease liabilities  (55) (53) 
Exchange differences  (14) 1 
Balance at 31 December  3,586  2,653  
The a
verage effective interest rate on the portfolio of borrowings outstanding in 2020, including hedge instruments related 
to these borrowings, amounted to 1.78% (2019: 2.31%). 
A breakdown of debenture loans is given below.  
Debenture loans  
Nominal amount  2020  2019 
EUR loan  2.38%  2014—2024 500 499 499 
EUR loan  1.00%  2015—2025 500 498 498 
EUR loan  1.38%  2015—2022 500 500 499 
EUR loan  0.75%  2016—2026 750 748 748 
EUR loan 0.25%  2020—2028 500 497 - 
EUR loan  0.625%  2020—2032 500 495 - 
Total  3,250  3,237  2,244  
Al
l debenture loans have a fixed interest rate and are listed on the AEX.  
-The 2.375% EUR bond 2014 –2024 of €500 million was pre -hedged by means of forward starting swaps, resulting in an
effective interest rate for this bond of 3.97%, including the settlement of the pre- hedge
-The 1% EUR bond 2015 –2025 of €500 million was pre -hedged by means of forward starting swaps, resulting in an
effective interes t rate for this bond at 3.65%, including the settlement of the pre -hedge
-The 1.375% EUR bond 2015–2022 of €500 million has an effective interest rate of 1.40%
-The 0.75% EUR bond 2016 –2026 of €750 million was pre -hedged by means of a collar resulting in an effective interest
rate for this bond of 1.08%, including the settlement of the pre -hedge
-The 0.25% EUR bond 2020 –2028 of €500 million has an effective interest rate of 0.29%
-The 0.625% EUR bond 2020 –2032 of €500 million has an effective interest rate of 0.70%
A b
reakdown of private loans is given below.  
Private loans  
2020  2019 
CNY loan 57 40 
Other  loans  24 1 
Total  81 41 Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  237 A breakdown of the lease liabilities is given below.  
Leas
e liabilities by maturity  
2020  2019 
2020 - 49 
2021 47 40 
2022 38 33 
2023 32 27 
2024 27 24 
2025 20 18 
After  2025 72 65 
Total  undiscounted  lease  liabilities  at 31 December  236 256 
Lease  liabilities  included  in the Balance  Sheet  at 31 December   215 236 
Current  47 49 
Non-current  168 187 
In a
ddition to the contractual lease commitments, DSM has identified explicit renewal options available to DSM, which are 
currently not reasonably certain to be exercised and are therefore not included in the measurement of the lease.  
The associated future lease payments which are uncommitted and optional for DSM, are estimated around € 78 million 
(undiscounted ; 2019: €76 mill ion). 
The interest expense on the lease liabilities was € 6 million (2019: €7 million) and the total repayments of the lease 
liabilities amounted to € 55 million in 2020 ( 2019: €53m) . These cash flows are reported as financing cash flows.  
DSM’s policy regarding financial -risk management is described in Note 23 .
20 Other non -current liabilities  
The in
crease in the other non -current liabilities relates mainly to additional customer funding of investment projects.2020  2019 
Investment grants / customer funding  76 65 
Deferred items  24 28 
Drawing rights  36 31 
Other non-current liabilities  27 21 
Total  163 145 Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
21 Current liabilities  
2020  2019 
Trade payables  
Received in advance  11 7 
Trade accounts payable  1,200  1,330  
Notes and cheques due  2 1 
Owing to associates and joint ventures  5 7 
Total Trade payables  1,218  1,345  
Income tax payable  53 42 
Other current liabilities  
Other taxes and social security contributions  49 46 
Interest  22 19 
Pensions  2 - 
Investment creditors  98 115 
Employee -related liabilities  266 268 
Payables associates and joint ventures relating to cash facility  2 5 
Acquisition / divestment related liabilities  77 25 
Total Other current liabilities  516 478 
Total current liabilities  1,787  1,865  
Incl
uded in trade accounts payable are amounts due to suppliers which could be part of a supply chain finance 
arrangement between the supplier and a third -party bank. DSM suppliers have the option to enter into such supply chain 
finan ce arrangements with third party banks, which provides them with the option of earlier payment based on terms 
linked to DSM’s investment grade credit rating. If a supplier chooses to participate in such an arrangement, this does not 
impact the classification of the trade payable for DSM as these supply chain finance arrangements are concluded between the banks and the suppliers and do not alter the payment conditions between the supplier and DSM. Therefore, these amounts remain classified as trade payables.
22 Contingent liabilities and other financial obligations  
The contingent liabilities and other financial oblig ations in the following table are not recognized in the balance sheet.  
2020  2019 
Guarantee obligations on behalf of associates and third parties  196 182 
Outstanding orders for projects under construction  30 8 
Other  82 61 
Total  308 251 
Guarantee ob ligations ar e pr incipally r elated t o VAT a n d d uties on t he one hand an d to financing obligations of as s ociated 
companies or r elated t hird p arties on t he ot h er. G uarantee obligations w ill only lead t o a cash ou tflow w hen c alled u pon. 
At year-end, no ob ligations h ad been c alled u p on. M ost of t h e outstanding or ders f or pr ojects u nder c onstruction w ill be 
completed i n 20 21. 
Litigation 
DSM h as a process i n  place t o monitor legal c laims p e riodically an d sy stematically. 
DSM is involved in several legal procee dings, most of whi ch are related to the ordinary course  of business. DSM does not 
expect
 these proc eedings to result in liabilities that have a material effect on the company's financial position. In cases   
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  238 Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  239  where it is probable that the outcome of th e proceedings will be unfavorable, and the financial outcome can be measured 
reliably, a provision has been recognized in the financial statements and disclosed in Note 18 Provisions . 
In 2015, an award was issued against DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals India Private Ltd. (DSP India) in a protracted 
arbitration case in India going back to 2004 involving a joint venture that DSP India had formed with Hindustan Antibiotics Ltd., which suspended its operations in 2003. DSP India (renamed to Centrient Pharmaceuticals after divestment by DSM in 2018) is covered by an indemnity from Koninklijke DSM N.V. for this case. In 2015, DSP India made an application with the Civil Court in Pune (India) to set aside the arbitral award. The award amounts to INR 127.5 crore (approximately €14 million as at year- end 2020) excluding interest of 12% per year as of 2004. In 2019, DSM provided the Bombay High Court a bank 
guarantee of INR 150 crore (approximately €17 million  as at year- end 2020 ). At the end of 2020, the application proceedings 
were still pending. DSM has always viewed this case as unfounded and is of the opinion that the likelihood of the award being ultimately set aside is high. Therefore, no liability is recognized in respect of this case.  
In 2019, Brazilian tax authorities disagreed with certain tax treatment as applied by the company in 2014–2016, which would have an effect on such prior year income tax returns of around BRL 65 million (approximately € 10 million as at year- end 
2020), including pena lties and interest. DSM views this case as unfounded and considers that the possibility of winning this 
case is high, as confirmed by external legal counsel. Therefore no liability relating to this case is recognized.
23 Financial instruments and risks  
Policies on financial risks  
General  
As an international company, DSM is exposed to financial risks in the normal course of business. A major objective of our group policy is to minimize the impact of market, liquidity and credit risk on the value of the company and its profitability . 
In order to achieve this, a systematic financial and risk management system has been established. For the purpose of securing compliance with the risk management policies, an internal control framework has been implemented, and the controls are monitored and tested periodically.  
The derivatives contracts used by DSM are entered into exclusively in connection with the corresponding underlying transaction (hedged item) relating to normal operating business. The instruments used are customary products, such as currency swaps, cross- currency interest ra te swaps, collars, forward exchange contracts and interest rate swaps . 
An important element of DSM’ s financial policy and capital management is the allocation of cash flow. DSM primarily 
allocates cash flow to investments aimed at strengthening its busines s positions and securing the dividend payment to its 
shareholders. The remaining cash flow is further used for acquisitions and partnerships that strengthen DSM ’s 
competences and market positions. The net debt to equity ratio (gearing) is 25.6  (2019: 12.7), see also Note 25 Net debt
. 
Liquidity risk  
Liquidity risk is the financial risk that an entity does not have and/or cannot access enough liquid cash and/or assets to meet its obligations. This can happen if the entity ’s cre dit rating falls, or when it experiences sudden unexpected cash 
outflows or an unexpected drop in cash inflows, or some other event that causes counterparties to avoid trading with or lending to the entity . Additionally, an entity can be indirectly exposed  to market liquidity risk, if the financial markets on 
which it depends are subject to loss of liquidity.  
The primary objective of liquidity management is to optimize the corporate cash position, among other things, by securing availability of sufficient l iquidity for execution of payments by DSM entities, at the right time and the right place.  
At 31 December 20 20, DSM had cash and cash equivalents of € 871 million (2019 : €800 million). 
At the end of 2020 , DSM had eight  committed credit facilit ies amounting to €1.5 billion . The agreement for the committed 
credit facility has neither financial covenants nor material adverse changes clauses. The €1.0 billion committed credit 
facility concluded in 2018 and maturing on 28 May 2025 links the interest rate to DSM’ s greenhouse gas (GHG) emission Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  240  reduction. The new committed credit facilities (€0.5 billion) concluded  in 2020 , with a maximum tenor of 2 years,  do not 
link the interest rate to DSM ’s greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reduction . At year -end 20 20, no loans had been taken up 
under the committed credit facilit ies. 
Furthermore, DSM has a commercial paper program amounting to € 2.0 billion (2019 : €1.5 billion). The company will use the 
comm ercial paper program to a total of not more than €1 .0 billion (2019 : €1.0 billion). At 31 December 2020 , €0 million had 
been issued as commercial paper (201 9: €0 million).  Due to COVID -19, in the first half of 2020, DSM issued commercial 
paper to  the value  of €0.5 billion.  
DSM has no derivative contracts to manage currency risk or interest rate risk outstanding under which margin calls by the 
counterparty would be permitted.  
Floating- rate and fixed-rate borrowings and monetary liabilities analyzed by matur ity are summarized in the following 
table. Borrowings excluding credit institutions are shown after taking into account related interest rate derivatives in designated hedging relationships. DSM manages financial liabilities and related derivative contract s on the basis of the 
remaining contractual maturities of these instruments. The remaining maturities presented in the following table provide an overview of the timing of the cash flows related to these instruments. Financial assets are not linked to financial liabilities in order to meet cash outflows on these liabilities.  
Financial liabilities  
 Carrying 
amount  Within 1 
year 1 to 2 years  2 to 3 years  3 to 4 years  4 to 5 years  After 5 years  
2019        
Borrowings  2,653   189  41  37  524  22  1,840   
Monetary liabilities  1,916  1,864   17  3  2  3  27  
Guarantees  182  -  -  -  -  -  182  
Derivatives  25  18  3  1  3  -  -  
Interest payments  183  33  30  30  30  22  38  
Cash at redemption1 26  5  4  4  3  3  7  
Total  4,985   2,109   95  75  562  50  2,094   
.        
2020         
Borrowings  3,586   107  548  37  546  535  1,813  
Monetary liabilities  1,851  1,787  21  5  5  5  28  
Guarantees  196  -  -  -  -  -  196  
Derivatives  14  13  1  -  -  -  -  
Interest payments  168  34  34  27  27  15  31  
Cash at redemption1 13  2  2  2  2  1  4  
Total  5,828   1,943   606  71  580  556  2,072   
1 Difference between nominal redemption and amortized costs.  
 The following table reflects the exposure of the derivatives to liquidity risk. It contains the cash flows from derivatives with positive fair values and from derivatives with negative fair values to have a complete overview of the derivatives related cash flows. The amounts are gross and undiscounted.  
  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  241  Derivatives cash flow  
 2020  2021  2022  2023  2024  2025  Total  
2019        
Inflow  1,690   38  37  56  19   1,840   
Outflow  (1,688)  (38) (37) (58) (19)  (1,840)  
2020         
Inflow   1,881   57  103  39  14  2,094   
Outflow   (1,842)  (54) (101) (36) (13) (2,046)  
Market risk  
Market risk can be subdivided into interest rate risk, currency risk and price risk.  
Interest rate risk  
Interest rate risk is the risk that adverse movements of interest rates lead to high costs on interest -bearing debt or assets, 
which negatively impact the company’s capabi lity to honor its commitments. DSM’s interest rate risk policy is aimed at 
minimizing the interest rate risks associated with the financing of the company and thus at the same time optimizing the 
net interest costs. This policy translates into a certain desired profile of fixed -interest and floating -interest positions, 
including cash and cash equivalents, with the floating -interest position not exceeding 60% of net debt.  
At 31 December 2020, there was a CNY 180 million credit facility held by DSM Inner Mong olia Rainbow, based on floating 
rate SHIBOR (2019: CNY 255 million). There were no outstanding fixed -floating interest rate swaps (end of 2019 none).  
The following analysis of the sensitivity of borrowings, assets and related derivatives to interest rate m ovements assumes 
an instantaneous 1% change in interest rates for all maturities from their level on 31 December 2020, with all other variables held constant. A 1% reduction in interest rates would result in a €6 million pre -tax loss in the income statemen t 
and equity on the basis of the composition of financial instruments on 31 December 2020, as floating -rate borrowings are 
more than compensated for by floating -rate assets (mainly cash). The opposite applies in the case of a 1% increase in 
interest rates.  The sensitivity of financial instruments with a floating interest rate on 31 December 2020 to changes in 
interest rates is set out in the following table.  
For more information regarding fixed or floating interest, see Not e 19 Borrowings
. 
Sensitivity to change in interest rate  
 2020  2019 
 Carrying 
amount   Sensitivity  Carrying 
amount   Sensitivity  
  +1%  (1%)  +1%  (1%) 
Loans to associates and joint ventures  4  -  -  3  -  -  
Current investments  43  -  -  688  7  (7) 
Cash and cash equivalents  871  9  (9) 800  8  (8) 
Short -term borrowings  (107) (1) 1  (189)  (2) 2  
Long -term borrowings  (3,479)  (2) 2  (2,464)  (2) 2  
 
Currency risk  
Currency risk is the risk that adverse movements of foreign currencies negatively impact the results of operations and the 
financial condition of the company, for example due to losses on assets or liabilities in foreign currencies. It is DSM’s policy to h edge 100% of the currency risks resulting from sales and purchases at the moment of recognition of the 
receivables and payables. This is realized by transferring at spot rates the respective exposures to the group, which are, consequently (on a netted basis), hedged externally.  
In addition, operating companies may — under strict conditions — opt for hedging currency risks from firm commitments 
and forecast transactions. The currencies giving rise to these risks are primarily USD, CHF and JPY. The risks ari sing from 
currency exposures are regularly reviewed and hedged when appropriate. DSM uses currency forward contracts, spot Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  242  contracts, and average -rate currency forwards and options to hedge the exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. 
At year -end, these instruments had remaining maturities of less than one year. For the hedging of currency risks from firm 
commitments and forecast transaction cash flows, hedge accounting is applied. Hedge accounting is not applied for 
hedges of recognized trade receivables and trade payables hedged with short -term derivatives.  
To hedge intercompany loans, receivables and payables denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the subsidiaries, DSM uses currency swaps or forward contracts.  
The following analysis of the sensitivity of net borrowings and derivative financial instruments to currency movements against the euro assumes a 10% change in all foreign currency rates against the euro from their level on 31 December 2020, with all other variable s held constant. A +10% change indicates a strengthening of the foreign currencies against the euro. 
A -10% change represents a weakening of the foreign currencies against the euro.  
Sensitivity to change in exchange rate 
 2020  2019 
 Carrying 
amount  Sensitivity  Carrying 
amount  Sensitivity  
  +10%    (10%)   +10%    (10%)  
Loans to associates and joint ventures  4  -  -  3  -  -  
Current investments  43  1  (1) 688  1  (1) 
Cash and cash equivalents  871  25  (25) 800  37  (37) 
Short -term borrowings  (60) (4) 4  (140)  (4) 4  
Long -term borrowings  (3,311)  (5) 5  (2,277)  (3) 3  
Lease liabilities  (215) (15) 15  (236)  (17) 17  
Currency forward contracts  9  17  (17) (8) 23  (23) 
Currency forwards related to net 
investments in foreign entities1 -  (13) 13  (1) (9) 9  
Average -rate forwards used for economic 
hedging2 35  19  (19) (2) (38) 38  
Other derivatives  51  4  (4) 26  3  (3) 
1 Fair-value change reported in Translation reserve.  
2 Fair-value change reported in Hedging reserve. 
 
Sensitivity changes on these positions will generally be recognized in profit or loss or in the translation reserve in equity , 
with the exception of the instruments for which cash flow hedge accounting or net -investment hedge accounting is 
applied.  
In case of a strengthening or weakening of the euro against USD, CHF and CNY (being the key currencies), this would affect the translation of financial instruments denominated in these currencies taking into account the effect of hedge accounting and  assuming all other variables being constant.  
 Profit or loss  Equity  
 Strengthening  Weakening  Strengthening  Weakening  
EUR     
USD (10% movement)  (130)  130  (223)  223  
CHF (10% movement)  11  (11) (187) 187  
CNY (10% movement)  (26) 26  (89) 89  
Price risk  
Financial instruments that are subject to changes in stock exchange prices or indexes are subject to a price risk. At year -
end 2020 investments in securities are subject to price risks.  
Credit risk  
Credit risk is the risk that a (commercial or financial) counterparty may not be able to honor a financial commitment according to the contractual agreement with DSM. The company manages the credit risk to which it is exposed by applying credit limits per institution and by dealing excl usively with institutions that have a high credit rating.  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  243  At the balance sheet date, there were no significant concentrations of credit risks.  
For all financial assets measured at amortized cost and fair value through other comprehensive income, the estimation of 
the loss allowance for doubtful accounts receivable is based on an expected credit loss (ECL) model.  
For trade receivables, DSM uses an allowance matrix to measure the lifetime ECL for trade receivables. The loss rates 
depend among other things on the specified aging categories and are based on historical write- off percentages, taking 
market developments into account.  
For other financial assets, DSM applies an ECL model that reflects the size and significance of DSM ’s exposure to credit 
loss. The ECL is based on the allocation of a credit risk grade which is based on data that is determined to be predictive of the risk of loss (including but not limited to external ratings, audited financial statements, management accounts and cash flow projections  and available press information about customers) and applying experienced credit judgement. Credit risk 
grades are defined using qualitative and quantitative factors that are indicative of the risk of default and are aligned to external credit rating defi nitions from Moody ’s. 
Risk of default is herewith considered as the risk of bankruptcy, or any legal impediment to the timely payment of either interest and/or principal, as well as missed or delayed disbursement of either interest and/or principal.  
The lo ss allowance on non -current financial assets that has been taken into consideration at the end of 20 20 was  
€5 million.  
With regard to treasury activities (for example cash, cash equivalents and derivatives held with banks or financial institutions) it is ensured that financial transactions are only concluded with counterparties that have at least a Moody ’s 
credit rating of A3 for long- term instruments. At business group level, outstanding receivables are continuously monitored 
by management. Appropriate al lowances are made for any credit risks that have been identified in line with the expected 
credit loss policy.  
The development of the outstanding receivables per aging category is as follows.  
 2020   2019  
Neither past due nor impaired  924  1,055   
1–29 days overdue  165  199  
30–89 days overdue  70  77  
90 days or more overdue  24  23  
Total  1,183   1,354   
 The table below provides information about the credit risk exposure per aging category and the ECL for trade accounts receivable of €28  million at 31 December 2020 (31 December 2019: €17 million), see Note 13 Curr ent receivables
. 
 Weighted 
average 
loss rate  Gross 
carrying 
amount  Expected    
credit    
loss   
Neither past due nor impaired  0.4% 924  (4) 
1–29 days overdue  1.0% 165  (2) 
30–89 days overdue  6.0% 70  (4) 
90 days or more overdue  75.0%  24  (18) 
Total   1,183   (28) 
  
  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  244  The changes in the expected credit loss for trade accounts receivable are as follows.  
 2020   2019  
Balance at 1 January  (17) (35) 
Net remeasurement of expected credit loss  (6) 14  
Deductions  1  4  
Acquisitions  (9) -  
Reclassification to held for sale  2  -  
Exchange differences  1  -  
Balance at 31 December  (28) (17) 
 
The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amounts of financial assets that are recognized in the balance sheet, including derivative financial instruments. DSM has International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) agreements in place with its financial counterparties that allow for the netting of exposures in case of a default of either party. No significant ag reements or financial instruments were available at the reporting date that would reduce the 
maximum exposure to credit risk.  
Exposure to credit risk related to derivatives  
 2020   2019  
Receivables from derivatives  109  46  
Liabilities from derivatives  (14) (25) 
Net amount  95  21  
 Information about financial assets is presented in Note 10 Associates and joint arrangements , 
Note 11 Other financial 
assets , Note 13 Current receivables , Note 14 Current investments , Note 15 Cash and cash equivalents  and Note 23 Financial 
instruments and risks . 
DSM's policy is to grant corporate guarantees for credit support of subsidiaries and associates, to get access to credit 
facilities which are necessary for their operating working capital needs and which cannot be funded by the corporate cash pools and/or f or bank guarantees needed for local governmental requirements. Information on guarantees is presented in 
Note 22 Contingent liabilities and other financial obligations
. 
Hedge accounting  
DSM uses derivative fina ncial instruments to manage financial risks relating to business operations and does not enter 
into speculative derivative positions. The purpose of cash flow hedges is to minimize the risk of volatility of future cash flows. These may result from a recogn ized asset or liability or a forecast transaction that is considered highly probable 
(firm commitment). The hedge ratio is dependent on the risk analysis related to the specific cash flow, and can vary from 50% to 100%. Changes in fair value as a result of  changes in interest (for cash flows hedges) or as a result of changes in 
exchange rate (for firm commitment hedges) are recognized in Other comprehensive income (Hedging reserve), and ineffectiveness (mainly as a result of changes in timing of the hedged transactions) will be recognized in the income statement. As soon as the forecast transaction is realized (the underlying hedged item materializes), the amount recognized in the Other comprehensive income will be reclassified to the income statement. In case the hedged future 
transaction is a non -financial asset or liability, the gain or loss recognized in Other comprehensive income will be included 
in the cost of acquisition of the asset or liability.  
The purpose of a hedge of a net investment is to reduce the foreign currency translation risk of an investment in a 
company whose functional currency is not the euro. Changes in fair value are recognized in Other comprehensive income (Translation reserve), and ineffectiveness will be recognized in the income statement. The amount recognized in the Other comprehensive income will be reclassified to the income statement, upon divestment of the respective foreign subsidiary.  
The purpose of a fair value hedge is to hedge the fair value of assets or liabilities reflected on the balance sheet. Changes of fair value in hedging instruments, as well as hedged items, will be recognized in the income statement.  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  245  Cash flow hedges 
In 20 20, DSM hedged USD 575  million (2019 : USD 712 million) of its 2021 projected net cash flow in USD against the EUR by 
means of average -rate currency forward contracts at an average exchange rate of USD 1.14 per EUR for the four quarters of 
2021. Each quarter, the relevant hedges for that quarter will be settled and recogn ized in the income statement. In 20 20, 
DSM also hedged JPY 7,213 million (2019 : JPY 7,453  million) of its 202 1 projected net cash flow in JPY against the EUR by 
means of average -rate currency forward contracts at an average exchange rate of JPY 122 per EUR  for the four quarters of 
2021. DSM also hedged the projected CHF obligations against the EUR, namely CHF 361  million (2019: CHF 304 million) at an 
average exchange rate of CHF 1.07  per EUR. These hedges have fixed the exchange rate for part of the USD and  JPY receipts 
and CHF payments in 202 1. Cash flow hedge accounting is applied for these hedges. As a result of similar hedges concluded 
in 201 9 for the year 20 20, €3 million positive (2019: €43 million negative) was recognized in the 20 20 operating profit of the 
segments involved in accordance with the realization of the expected cash flows. There was no ineffectiveness in relation 
to these hedges.  
Net investment hedges  
The partial hedging of the currency risk associated with the translation of DSM ’s CHF -denominated investments was 
continued for an amount of CHF 135  million (2019: CHF 100 million). There was no material ineffectiveness in relation to 
these hedges.  
 Cash flow hedges  Net investment hedges  
 Foreign currency risk  Foreign exchange - denominated  
debt (CHF currency)  
 Inventory 
purchases  Other1 Assets  Liabilities  
2019     
Nominal amount hedged item  31  406  -  92  
Carrying amount assets  -  -  -  -  
Carrying amount liabilities  1  2  -  1  
Line item balance sheet  Derivatives  Derivatives  Derivatives  Derivatives  
Change in the value of the hedging instrument  5  20  -  4  
Costs of hedging recognized in OCI  5  (23) -  6  
Reclassified from hedging reserve to income 
statement  (1) 43  -  -  
Line item income statement  Cost of sales  Sales  Finex2 Finex2 
.     
2020      
Nominal amount hedged item  28  223  -  125  
Carrying amount assets  -  35  -  -  
Carrying amount liabilities  -  -  -  -  
Line item balance sheet  Derivatives  Derivatives  Derivatives  Derivatives  
Change in the value of the hedging instrument  1  37  -  1  
Costs of hedging recognized in OCI  1  40  -  -  
Reclassified from hedging reserve to income 
statement  (9) (3) -  -  
Line item income statement  Cost of sales  Sales  Finex2 Finex2 
1 Forward contracts, sales, receivables and borrowings  
2 Financial income and expense  
 
For movements in Hedging or Translation reserve, see also Note 16 Equity . 
Fair value of financial instruments  
The following methods and assumpt ions were used to determine the fair value of financial instruments: cash, current 
investments, current receivables, current borrowings (excluding current portion of long -term instruments) and other 
current liabilities are stated at carrying amount, which approximates fair value in view of the short maturity of these instruments. The fair value of derivatives and long -term instruments are based on calculations, quoted market prices or 
quotes obtained from intermediaries.  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  246  The portfolio of derivatives consists of average -rate forward contracts that are valued against average foreign exchange 
forward rates obtained from Bloomberg and other derivatives that are valued using a discounted cash flow model, 
applicable market yield curves and foreign exchange spot rates. Inputs for the fair value calculations represent observable market data that are obtained from external sources that are deemed to be independent and reliable. 
DSM uses the following hierarchy for determining the fair value of financial instruments:  
- Level 1: quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities  
- Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs that have a significant effect on the fair value are observable, either 
directly or indirectly  
- Level 3: techniques that use inputs that have a significant effect on the fair value that are not based on observable 
market data . 
- The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities, including 
their levels in the fair value hierarchy.  
Fair value of financial instruments 
 Carrying amount  Fair Value   
Amort. Cost  Fair value 
hedging 
instr.  FVTPL  FVOCI  Total  Level 1  Level 2  Level 3  Total  
Assets 2019           
Non-current derivatives  -  -  27  -  27  -  27  -  27  
Other participating interests  -  -  -  150  150  44  40  66  150  
Non-current loans to associates and JVs  3  -  -  -  3  -  3  -  3  
Other non -current receivables  105  -  -  -  105  -  -  105  105  
Other non -current deferred items  7  -  -  -  7  -  -  7  7  
Trade receivables  1,592   -  -  -  1,592   -  -  1,592   1,592   
Other current receivables  45  -  -  -  45  -   45  45  
Current derivatives   19  -  -  19  -  19  -  19  
Current investments  688  -  -  -  688  -  -  688  688  
Cash and cash equivalents  755  -  45  -  800  45  -  755  800  
Liabilities 2019           
Non-current borrowings  (2,464)  -  -  -  (2,464)  (2,397)  -  (187) (2,584)  
Non-current derivatives  -  (7) -  -  (7) -  (7) -  (7) 
Other non -current liabilities  (145) -  -  -  (145)  (126) -  (19) (145)  
Current borrowings  (189)  -  -  -  (189)  (140)  -  (49) (189)  
Current derivatives  -  (18) -  -  (18) -  (18) -  (18) 
Trade payables  (1,345)  -  -  -  (1,345)  -  -  (1,345)  (1,345)  
Other current liabilities  (478)  -  -  -  (478)  -  -  (478)  (478)  
.          
Assets 2020           
Non-current derivatives   10  51   61   61   61  
Other participating interests     219  219  121  36  62  219  
Non-current loans to associates and JVs  4     4   4   4  
Other non -current receivables  85     85    85  85  
Other non -current deferred items  9     9    9  9  
Trade receivables  1,391     1,391     1,391  1,391   
Other current receivables  62     62    62  62  
Current derivatives   48    48   48   48  
Current investments  43     43    43  43  
Cash and cash equivalents  871     871    871  871  
Liabilities 2020           
Non-current borrowings  (3,479)     (3,479)  (3,469)   (168)  (3,637)  
Non-current derivatives   (1)   (1)  (1)  (1) 
Other non -current liabilities  (163)    (163)  (141)  (22) (163)  
Current borrowings  (107)    (107)  (60)  (47) (107)  
Current derivatives   (13)   (13)  (13)  (13) 
Trade payables  (1,218)     (1,218)    (1,218)  (1,218)  
Other current liabilities  (516)    (516)    (516) (516)  
 
During the year there were no material transfers between individual levels of the fair value hierarchy. 
  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  247  Notional value of derivative financial instruments  
 2020  2019 
 Non-current    Current    Total    Non-current    Current    Total    
Cross -currency interest rate swaps  (201)  (152) (353)  (200)  (163) (363)  
Forward exchange contracts, currency 
options, currency swaps  (2) (1,691)  (1,693)  -  (1,629)  (1,629)  
Other derivatives  46  (28) 18  27  (31) (4) 
Total  (157) (1,871)  (2,028)  (173) (1,823)  (1,996)  
24 Post -employment benefits  
The group operates a number of defined benefit plans and defined contribution plans throughout the world, the assets of 
which are generally held in separately administered funds. The pension plans are generally funded by payments from employees and from the relevant group companies. The group also provides certain additional healthcare benefits to retired employees in the US.  
Post-employment benefits are employee benefits (other than termination benefits and short -term employee benefits) that 
are payable after the completion of employment. The defined benefit obligation is valued using the projected unit credit method as prescribed under IAS  19 ‘Employ ee Benefits’ . Post-employment benefit accounting is intended to reflect the 
recognition of post -employment benefits over the employee’ s approximate service period, based on the terms of the plans 
and the investment and funding. The accounting requires mana gement to make assumptions regarding variables such as 
discount rate, future salary increases, life expectancy, and future healthcare costs. Management consults with external actuaries regarding these assumptions at least annually for significant plans.  
Changes in these key assumptions can have a s ignificant impact on the projected defined benefit obligations, funding 
requirements and periodic costs incurred.  
The charges for pension costs recognized in the income statement (N ote 5 Net sales and costs (continuing operations)
), 
relate to the following . 
Pension costs  
 2020   2019  
Defined benefit plans:    
- Current service costs pension plans  36  28  
- Other post -employment benefits  3  2  
Defined contribution plans  79  74  
Total pension costs included in employee benefit costs  118  104  
- Pension costs included in Other operating (income) / expense  -  (16) 
Total in operating profit, continuing operations  118  88  
Pension costs included in Financial income and expense  4  7  
Total continuing operations  122  95  
Discontinued operations  14  12  
Total  136  107  
Of which:    
- Defined contribution plans  92  85  
- Defined benefit plans  44  22  
 For 2021, costs for the defined benefit plans relating to pensions are expected to be €42 million (2020: €44 million).  
Changes in Employee benefit net liabilities recognized in the balance sheet are shown in the following overview.  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  248  Employee benefit net liabilities  
 2020   2019  
Balance at 1 January  454  458  
Changes:    
- Balance of actuarial gains/(losses)  23  24  
- Employee benefit costs  45  21  
- Contributions by employer  (54) (54) 
- Acquisition and disposals  4  1  
- Exchange differences  (2) 4  
- Reclassification from/to held for sale  (16) -  
Total changes  -  (4) 
Balance at 31 December  454  454  
 
The Employee benefit net liabilities of € 454 million (2019: €454 million) consist of € 434 million related to pensions (2019:  
€434 million), €5 million related to healthcare and other costs (2019: €6 million) and  €15 million related to other post -
employment benefits (2019: €14 million).  See also the table below.  
Net assets/liabilities  
 2020   2019  
Major plans:    
Present value of funded obligations  (1,756)  (1,724)  
Fair value of plan assets  1,676   1,644   
Net (80) (80) 
Present value of unfunded obligations  (354)  (354)  
Net (liabilities) / net assets major plans  (434)  (434)  
Net (liabilities) / net assets other plans  (20) (20) 
Total net liabilities / net assets  (454)  (454)  
Of which:    
Liabilities (Employee benefit liabilities)  (456)  (456)  
Assets (Prepaid pension costs)  2  2  
Pensions  
The DSM group companies have various pension plans, which are geared to the local regulations and practices in the countries in which they operate. As these plans are designed to comply with the statutory framework, tax legislation, local customs and economic situation of the countries concerned, it follows that the nature of the plans varies from country to country. The plans are based on local legal and contractual obligations.  
DSM's current policy is to offer defined contribution retirement benefit plans to new employees wherever possible. However, DSM still has a (small) number of de fined benefit pension and healthcare schemes from the past or in countries 
where legislation does not allow us to offer a defined contribution scheme. Generally, these schemes have been funded through external trusts or foundations, where DSM faces the potential risk of funding shortfalls. The most significant defined benefit schemes are:  
- Pension Plan at DSM Nutritional Products AG in Switzerland  (DNP AG)  
- DSM UK Pension Scheme in the UK  
- Consolidated Pension Plan of DSM North America, Inc. in the US  
- Pension Plan at DSM Nutritional Products GmbH in Germany (DNP GmbH)  
  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  249  For each plan, the following characteristics are relevant:  
DNP AG Pension Plan in Switzerland  
The DNP AG Pension Plan is a typical Swiss Cash Balance plan. For accounting purposes, this plan is qualified as a defined 
benefit plan. It is a contribution -based plan. There is no promise of indexation for on -going pensions. The Swiss state 
minimal requirements for occupational benefit plans have however to be respected; the Minimum Guaranteed Interest Return on the cash balance accounts for 2020 was 1.00% (2019: 1.00%) for the mandatory portion (BVG/LPP). There is also a minimal conversion rate applicabl e. The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 16.4  years (2019: 
16.4 years) which could be seen as an indication of the maturity profile of the scheme.  
The pension plan is managed and controlled by a DSM company pension fund. The Bo ard of Trustees consists of 
representatives of the employer and the employees who have an independent role. The plan assets are collectively invested (no individual investment choice). The current (estimated) funding level, based on local standards, is 117 % (2019: 
119%), which is above the legally required minimum funding level but below the long -term buffer target.  
DSM UK Pension Scheme 
The DSM UK Pension Scheme was closed as of 30 September 2016 for all pension accruals. An unconditional indexation 
policy is applicable for the vested pension rights. The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 19.8 
years (2019: 19.4 years), which could be seen as an indication of the maturity profile of the scheme.  
The pension plan is managed and cont rolled by a DSM company pension fund. The Board of Trustees consists of 
representatives of the employer and the employees who have an independent role. The 2018 valuation was finalized in 2019 and as a result DSM will continue to pay an annual recovery con tribution of GBP 0.9 million into the plan. There are 
two company guarantees in place: (1) a guarantee from DNP AG (capped at GBP 14 million) related to the 2012 valuation, and (2) a guarantee from Royal DSM (capped at GBP 11 million) related to arrangemen ts with respect to former UK 
divestments. There is a long -term de -risking strategy for the DSM UK Pension Scheme in place with the objective to align 
the company ’s intentions and the Trustees responsibility with respect to this plan. The current funding le vel, based on 
local standards, is estimated at 99% (2019: 99%).  
Consolidated Plan in the US  
The Consolidated Plan in the US has been closed to new entrants since 2014. As of 31 December 2016, the plan was closed for pension accrual of the non -unionized emp loyees.  
New accrual is only applicable for a small group of unionized employees. There is no indexation applicable for the vested pension rights. The weighted average duration of the defined obligations is 12.5 years (2019: 12.1 years), which could be seen as an indication of the maturity profile of the scheme.  
The pension plan is managed and controlled by a DSM company pension fund. The Board of Trustees consists of representatives of the employer and the employees, who have an independent role. 
In 202 0, the Board of Trustees finalized a bulk annuity purchase for a group of retirees with small monthly benefits. For a 
group of unionized employees the accrual was closed in 2020 and a one- time increase of the multiplier was implemented. 
The financial resul t of these changes is recognized in 2020.  
The internal funding policy of this plan is based on IFRS valuation. This implies a stricter funding policy than the minimum 
requirements on local funding. The current IFRS funding level is 101% (2019: 99%), whereas the funding level on local standards (Pension Protection Act) is estimated at 133% (2019: 124%). The minimum required funding level on local standards is 80% on the basis of this Act. 
DNP GmbH Pension Plan in Germany  
The DNP GmbH Pension Plan in Germany  has been closed to new entrants as of 31 December 2008. The accrual is still 
applicable for employees who have been participating in the plan since 2008. The pension plan is a final -pay pension plan 
(averaged over the last 12 months prior to retirement) a nd service- related benefit. The liability is on the balance sheet of 
DSM Nutritional Products GmbH. No assets are allocated to this liability. All reimbursements will be paid out by the local Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  250  company. The weighted average duration of the defined benefit ob ligation is 14.9 years (2019: 15.2 years), which could be 
seen as an indication of the maturity profile of the scheme.  
The most important unfunded plans are in Germany, for which the associated liability amounts to €345 million (2019: €344 
million). 
The changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations and in the fair value of plan assets of the major plans 
are listed below . 
Present value of defined benefit obligations  
 2020   2019  
Balance at 1 January  2,079   1,808   
Changes:    
- Service costs  36  33  
- Interest costs  18  29  
- Contributions  15  15  
- Actuarial (gains)/losses  114  216  
- Past service costs  -  (16) 
- Exchange differences  (30) 59  
- Disbursements  (77) (65) 
- Settlements  (31) -  
- Reclassification to held for sale  (16) -  
- Other  2  -  
Total changes  31  271  
Balance at 31 December  2,110   2,079   
 
Fair value of plan assets  
 2020   2019  
Balance at 1 January  1,644   1,370   
Changes:    
- Interest income on plan assets  15  23  
- Actuarial gains/(losses)  89  192  
Actual return on plan assets  104  215  
- Contributions by employer  41  42  
- Contributions by employees  15  14  
- Disbursement  (63) (52) 
- Settlements  (31) -  
- Exchange differences  (30) 55  
- Transfer to contribution plan  (4) -  
Total changes  32  274  
Balance at 31 December  1,676   1,644   
 
The fair value of the plan assets consists of 96% of quoted assets (2019: 97%).  
  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  251  The actuarial gains/losses as included in the previous tables can be specified as follows.  
Remeasurement effects as included in Other comprehensive income  
 2020   2019  
Defined benefit obligation major pension plans    
Actuarial (gain)/loss due to experience  9  36  
Actuarial (gain)/loss due to demographic assumption changes  3  (4) 
Actuarial (gain)/loss due to financial assumption changes  102  184  
Total  114  216  
Plan assets major pension plans    
Change in irrecoverable surplus other than interest  (2) -  
Return on plan assets (greater) / less than discount rate  (89) (192) 
Total  (91) (192)  
Actuarial (gain)/loss major plans  23  24  
Actuarial (gain)/loss other plans  -  -  
Total actuarial (gain)/loss  23  24  
 
The major categories of pension -plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows.  
Pension -plan assets by category  
 2020   2019  
Bonds1 45% 45% 
Equities1 29% 30% 
Property funds  17% 17% 
Other  9% 8% 
1 With quoted market price in active market  
 
The pension -plan assets include neither ordinary DSM shares nor property occupied by DSM.  
In 2021, DSM is expected to contribute € 35 million (actual 2020: €41  million) to its major defined benefit plans.  
The main actuarial assumptions for the year (weighted averages) are:  
Actuarial assumptions for major plans outside  the Netherlands  
 2020   2019  
Discount rate  0.53%  0.92%  
Price inflation  1.42%  1.44%  
Salary increase  2.07%  2.08%  
Pension increase  0.75-2.50%  0.80-2.25%  
 Year-end amounts for the current and previous periods are as follows.  
Major defined benefit plans per year  
 2020   2019  2018  2017  2016  
Defined benefit obligations  (2,110)  (2,079)  (1,808)  (1,675)  (1,806)  
Plan assets  1,676   1,644   1,370   1,301  1,297  
Funded status of asset/(liability)  (434)  (435)  (438)  (374)  (509)  
Experience adjustments on plan assets, gain/(loss)  89  192  (94) 115  60  
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities, gain/(loss)  (9) (36) (35) (24) 15  
Gain/(loss) on liabilities due to changes in assumptions  (105)  (180)  52  (21) (80) 
 Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  252  Sensitivities of significant actuarial assumptions  
The discount rate, the future increase in wages and salaries and the pension increase rate were identified as significant 
actuarial assumptions. The following impacts on the defined benefit obligation are to be expected.  
- A 0.25% increase/decrease in the discount rate would lead to a decrease/increase of 3.9% (2019: 3.8%) in the defined 
benefit obligation  
- A 0.25% increase/decrease in the expected increase in salaries/wages would lead to an increase/decrease of 0.3% 
(2019: 0.3%) in the defined benefit obligation  
- A 0.25% increase/decrease in the expected rate of pension increase would lead to an increase/decrease of less than 2.0% (2019: 1.0%) in the defined benefit obligation  
 The sensitivity  analysis is based on realistically possible changes as at the end of the reporting year. Each change in a 
significant actuarial assumption was analyzed separately as part of the test. Interdependencies were not taken into account.  
Healthcare and other cos ts 
In some countries, particularly the US, group companies provide retired employees and their surviving dependents with post-employment benefits other than pensions, mainly allowances for healthcare expenses and life- insurance premiums. 
Some of these are unfunded; in these cases, approved expense claims are reimbursed out of the financial resources of the group companies concerned. These plans are not sufficiently material to warrant the individual disclosures required by  
IAS 19.
 
 Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  253  25 Net debt  
The development of the components of net debt is as follows.  
 Cash and 
cash 
equivalents  Current 
investments Non-current 
borrowings  Current 
borrowings  Credit 
institutions  Derivatives  Total  
Balance at 1 January 2019  1,281   1,277  (2,272)  (308)  (72) (19) (113) 
Change from operating activities  1,385   -  (8) -  -  28  1,405   
Change from investing activities  (525)  (589)  (27) -  (2) 3  (1,140)  
Reclassification from non -current to current  -  -  50  (50) -  -  -  
Opening balance lease liabilities (adoption)  -  -  (215) -  -  -  (215)  
Transfers  (290)  -  46  301  (57) -  -  
Dividend  (291) -  -  -  -  -  (291)  
Interest  (62) -  -  -  -  5  (57) 
Proceeds from reissued shares  180  -  -  -  -  -  180  
New/unwinding leases  -  -  (39) -  -  -  (39) 
Repurchase of shares  (869)  -  -  -  -  -  (869)  
Derivatives  -  -  -  -  -  (6) (6) 
Other  -  -  2  -  -  -  2  
Change from financing activities  (1,332)  -  (156) 251  (57) (1) (1,295)  
Exchange differences  (9)  (1)  (1) 10  (1) 
Total changes  (481)  (589)  (192) 251  (60) 40  (1,031)  
Balance at 31 December 2019  800  688  (2,464)  (57) (132)  21  (1,144)  
.        
Change from operating activities  1,494   -  (8) -  -  90  1,576   
Change from investing activities  (1,482)  (646)  (120)  (68) (17) -  (2,333)  
Reclassification from non -current to current    142  (142) -  -  -  
Transfers  705  -  (1,011)  211  95  -  -  
Dividend  (289)  -  -  -  -  -  (289)  
Interest  (54) -  -  -  -  -  (54) 
Proceeds from reissued shares  63  -  -  -  -  -  63  
New/unwinding leases  -  -  (34) -  -  -  (34) 
Repurchase of shares  (309)  -  -  -  -  -  (309)  
Derivatives  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  
Other  (33) -  -  -  -  -  (33) 
Change from financing activities  83  -  (903)  69  95  -  (656)  
Exchange differences  (24) 1  14  -  1  (16) (24) 
Reclassification to held for sale  -  -  2  2  -  -  4  
Total changes  71  (645)  (1,015)  3  79  74  (1,433)  
Balance at 31 December 2020  871  43  (3,479)  (54) (53) 95  (2,577)  
 
In 2020, the gearing (net debt / equity plus net debt) was 25.6% (in 2019: 12.7%) .
26 Notes to the cash flow statement 
The cash flow statement provides an explanation of the changes in cash and cash equivalents. It is prepared on the basis of a comparison of the balance sheets at 1 January and 31 December. Changes that do not involve cash flows, such as changes in exchange rates, amortization, de preciation, impairment losses and transfers to other balance sheet items, are 
eliminated.  
Changes in working capital due to the acquisition or disposal of consolidated companies are included under Investing activities. 
The Consolidated cash flow statement includes an analysis of all cash flows in total , therefore including both continuing 
and discontinued operations . For the a mounts related to discontinued operations split by activities  and a reconciliation of 
results from continuing operations to total, s ee Note 3 Change in the scope of the consolidation
. Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  254 Most of the changes in the cash flow statement can be traced back to the detailed statements of changes for the balance 
sh
eet items concerned. For those balance sheet items for which no detailed statement of changes is included, the table 
below shows the link between the change according to the balance sheet and the change according to the cash flow statement . 
Change in operating working capital  
2020  2019 
Operating working capital  
Balance at 1 January  2,266  2,138  
Balance at 31 December  2,052  2,266  
Balance sheet change  (214)  128 
Adjustments:  
-Exchange differences 146 (52) 
-Changes in consolidation (including acquisitions and disposals) (96) (67) 
-Transfers/non -cash value adjustments 156 (61) 
Total change in operating working capital according to the cash flow statement  (8) (52) 
In 2
020, the operating working capital was € 2,052  million (2019 : €2,266 million total and €2,137 continuing operations ), which 
amounts to 24.6 % of annualized fourth  quarter net sales (201 9: 27.6% continuing operations ).
27 Share -based compensation  
The DSM Stock Incentive Plan provides rules for the grant of Restricted Share Units (RSU) and Performance Share Units (PSU)  to eligible employees . Any grant of share units will be conducted on  the last trading day at the Amsterdam Stock 
Exchange in March.  
The number of share units to be granted is based on the face value of the DSM share. The grant value (depending on job level) to eligible employees will be divided by the average share price in January . As a result, the number of share units to 
be granted annually will fluctuate with the share price development. The  grant concerns the maximum number of 
Restricted Share Units (RSUs) and Performance Share Units (PSUs) that may vest.  
RSUs and PSUs are subject to a vesting period of 3 years starting at the grant date. Vesting of RSUs is subject to continued employment un til the vesting date ( ‘time vesting ’). In addition, vesting of PSUs is also subject to the achievement of 
predefined performance targets at the end of the vesting period. The PSUs granted in 2020 are subject to the realization of 
four equally weighted goal s: 
-Relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance versus a peer group
-Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) growth
-Energy Efficiency Improvement (EEI)
-Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GHGE) reduction
Non-vested share units will be forfeited. If employment is terminated prior to the vesting date, specific rules regarding 
vesting and forfeitures apply.  
Prior to 2017, stock options were granted to eligible executives . Stock options have a term of 8 years and are subject to a 
vesting period of 3 years. All outstandi ng stock options are vested.  
Share units and stock options are settled by delivery of DSM shares.  Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  255 Overview of stock options1 
Year of grant  Outstanding 
at 31 Dec. 2019  In 2020  Outstanding   
at 31 Dec. 2020   Fair value  
on grant 
date (€)  Exercise   
price (€)   Expiry date  
Exercised  Average  
price (€)  Forfeited/  
expired  
2012 15,375  (15,375)  112.15  - - 6.88 40.90  15 May 2020  
2013 153,350  (68,100)  129.80  - 85,250 9.23 48.91  7 May 2021  
2014 215,280  (77,655)  122.76   - 137,625  10.66  52.00  9 May 2022  
2015 524,225  (211,825)  119.03  - 312,400 9.89 50.98  5 May 2023  
2016 734,150  (202,505)  119.93  - 531,645  9.36  52.57  3 May 2024  
2020 Total  1,642,380  (575,460)  120.94  - 1,066,920
Of which vested  1,642,380  1,066,920  
at 31 Dec. 2018 at 31 Dec. 2019 
2019 Total  4,249,980  (2,558,600)  101.48  (49,000)  1,642,380  
Of which vested  2,250,605  1,642,380  
1 This table also forms part of the Remuneration report 2020 as included in the Supervisory Board Report.  
Overview o f share units1 
Year of issue  Outstanding at   
31 Dec. 2019   In 2020  Outstanding at   
31 Dec. 2020   Share price   
at date of   
grant (€)   Expiry date  
Granted   Vested   Forfeited/  
expired2
2017 325,000  - (291,654) (33,346)  - 67.33  5 May 2020  
2018 243,410  - (18,932) (21,339)  203,139  80.04  31 Mar 2021   
2019 317,233  - (20,511) (28,788)  267,934  97.74  31 Mar 2022   
2020 - 232,714  (5,000)  (8,436)  219,278  103.50  31 Mar 2023   
2020 Total  885,643  232,714  (336,097)  (91,909)  690,351  
at 31 Dec. 2018 at 31 Dec. 2019 
2019 Total  652,120  328,088  (50,749)  (43,816)  885,643  
1 This table also forms part of the Remuneration report 2020  as included in the Supervisory Board Report. 
2
 Restricted and Performance Share Units may partly vest upon termination of employment in connection with, for example, divestments,  
retirem ent or early retirement. 
Cer
tain employees in  the Netherlands  are entitled to employee stock options, to be granted on the first day on which the 
DSM stock is quoted ex-dividen d following the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. The opening price of the DSM 
stock on that day is the exercise price of such stock options. Employee stock options can immediately be exercised and 
have a term of five years.  
Overview of stock options for employees  
Year of grant  Outstanding at   
31 Dec. 2019   In 2020  Outstanding at   
31 Dec. 2020   Fair value   
on grant   
date (€)   Exercise   
price (€)   Exercise   
period until  Granted   Exercised    Average  
price (€)   Forfeited/  
expired   
2015 8,985  - (6,690) 111.57  (2,295)  - 4.50 50.98  May 2020   
2016 47,780  - (21,700) 126.47  (4,035)  22,045  4.38 52.57  May 2021   
2017 83,205  - (34,085) 129.96   (1,670)  47,450  6.14 67.33  May 2022   
2018 181,570  - (83,885) 130.00  (1,350)  96,335  8.50 85.00  May 2023   
2019 316,270  - (149,960) 130.01  (2,910)  163,400  8.88 98.00  May 2024   
2020 - 190,630 (71,205)  135.97   (1,535)  117,890  10.26   112.00  May 2025   
2020 Total  637,810  190,630  (367,525)  130.61  (13,795)  447,120  
at 31 Dec. 2018 at 31 Dec. 2019 
2019 Total  784,995  482,600  (609,675)  104.43  (20,110)  637,810  
Measurement of fair value  
The costs of share units are measured by reference to the fair value of the DSM share at the date on which the share units are granted, ex -dividend as the share units do not accumulate dividend during the three- year vesting period.  
The costs of option plans are measured by reference to the fair value of the options at the date on which the options are granted. The fair value is determined using the Black -Scholes model, taking into account market conditions linked to the 
price of the DSM share. Stock -price volatility is determined on the basis of historical volatilities of the DSM share price 
measured each month over a period equal to the expected option life. The costs of these options are recognized in the income statement (Employee benefit costs).  
Assumptions determining fair value  
The following assumptions were used to determine the fair value at grant date . Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  256 Plan assumptions  
2020  2019 
Share units  
Risk-free rate  -0.69%  -0.57%  
Expected share life in years  3 3 
Nominal share life in years  3 3 
Share price in €  103.50  97.74  
Expected dividend in €  7.20 6.90 
Fair value of share granted in €  96.30  90.84  
Employee options  
Risk-free rate  -0.74%  -0.59%  
Expected option life in years  2.5 2.5 
Nominal option life in years  5 5 
Share price in €  112.10  98.00  
Exercise price in €  112.10  98.00  
Volatility  20.0%  20.0%  
Expected dividend  2.14%  2.35%  
Fair value of option granted in €  10.26  8.88 
An
 amount of € 29 million is included in the costs for wages and salaries for share- based compensation (2019: €34 million). 
The following table specifies the share-based compensation . 
Share- based compensation  
2020  2019 
Employee stock options  2 4 
Share units  19 22 
Performance shares  8 8 
Total expense  29 34 
28 Related parties  
Koninklijke DSM N.V. is the group holding company that is listed on the Euronext Amsterdam stock exchange. The financial 
statements of the company are included in the section Parent company financial statements . 
In the ordinary course of business, DSM buys and sells goods and services from/to various related parties in which DSM has significant influence. Transactions are conducted under terms and conditions that are equivalent to those that apply to arm’s length  transactions.  
Transactions and relationships with related parties are reported in the table below. 
Transactions with related parties  
Joint ventures  Associates  
2020  2019 2020  2019 
Sales to  1 1 8 13 
Purchases from  1 - 50 52 
Loans to  - - 4 3 
Receivables from  1 1 43 42 
Payables to  - - 5 5 
Interest from  - - 1 - 
Commitments to - - 3 4 Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  257 DSM may issue guarantees as credit enhancement of associates to acquire bank facilities for these associates. DSM has 
pr
ovided guarantees to third parties for debts of associates and to a third party (a former associate) for an amount of € 78 
million (2019: €59 million).  
Other related -parties disclosures relate entirely to key management of DSM, being represented by the company ’s Managing 
Board, Executive Committee and the Supervisory Board. For further details about the ir remuneration, see Note 13 to the 
Parent company financial statements .
29 Service fees paid to exter nal auditors  
The service fees recognized in the financial statements 2020 for the services of KPMG amounted to €5.7 million (2019: €5.4 million). The amounts per service category are shown in the following table.  
Total service fee  Of which  
KPMG  KPMG  KPMG NL  KPMG NL    
2020  2019 2020  2019 
Audit of the Group financial statements  4.5 4.3 3.0 2.8 
Audit of other (statutory) financial statements  0.6 0.5 - 0.1 
Other assurance services  0.6 0.6 0.6 0.6 
Total assurance services  5.7 5.4 3.6 3.5 
The s
ervice fees mentioned in the table for the audit of the financial statements 2020 (2019) relate to the total fees for th e 
audit of the financial statements 2020 (2019), irrespective of whether the activities have been performed during the financial year 2020 (2019). KPMG did not provide any non -assurance services (2019: similar). The services rendered by KPMG 
NL in 2020 in addition to the statutory audits include assuranc e engagements on non -financial information, on internal 
controls of DSM Pension Services, government grants and regulatory filings, as well as agreed -upon procedures on certain 
information for the Remuneration Committee of Royal DSM and the pension fund an d their external auditor.
30 Events after the balance sheet date  
There were no reportable events after balance sheet date.  Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  258 Parent company financial statements  
Balance sheet at 31 December of Koninklijke DSM N.V. before profit appropriation  
x € million  Notes  2020  2019 
Assets  
Intangible assets  2 871 428 
Property, plant and equipment  3  - 12 
Financial assets  4 11,976  10,747  
Deferred tax assets  5 132 71 
Other deferred items  2 2 
Non-current assets  12,981  11,260  
Receivables  6  63 101 
Cash and cash equivalents  - 1 
Current assets  63 102 
Total  13,044  11,362  
. 
Shareholders' equity and liabilities  
Issued share capital  338 338 
Share premium  489 489 
Treasury shares  (976)  (905)  
Translation reserve  7 (289)  162 
Reserve for capitalized development costs  7 223 267 
Reserve for participating interests  7 120 116 
Revaluation reserve  7 - 5 
Hedging reserve  7 (68) (122) 
Other reserves  7 114 51 
Retained earnings  7,082  6,711 
7,033  7,112 
Net profit for the year  506 758 
Less: Interim dividend  (140)  (139) 
Undistributed profit  366 619 
Shareholders' equity  7 7,399  7,731 
Borrowings  8  3,237  2,244  
Other non-current liabilities  8 8 
Non-current liabilities  3,245  2,252  
Current liabilities  
Borrowings  8  - - 
Derivatives  - 1 
Other current liabilities  9 2,400  1,378 
Current liabilities  2,400  1,379  
Total  13,044  11,362  
The a
ccompanying notes are an integral part of these parent company financial statements.Parent company financial statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  259 Income statement of Koninklijke DSM N.V.  
x € million  Notes  2020  2019 
Other income  1 20 184 
Cost of outsourced work and other external costs  (17) (88) 
Wages and salaries  11 (9) (70) 
Social security and pension charges  - (8) 
Other operating expense  (2) (10) 
Total operating expenses  (28) (176)  
Operating profit  (8) 8 
Financial expense  12 (95) (79) 
Profit before income tax  (103)  (71) 
Income tax  5 24 23 
Share of the profit of subsidiaries  4 585 800 
Profit after income tax  506 752 
Other results related to associates and joint ventures  4 - 6 
Net profit available to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V.  506 758 Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  260 Notes to the parent company financial statements  
1 General  
Unless stated otherwise, all amounts are in € million. 
Summary of the accounting policies  
These separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Title 9, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. The 
accounting policies used are the same as those used in the consolidated EU -IFRS financial statements, in accordance with 
the provisions of article 362- 8 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.  
In these separate financial statements, investments in subsidiaries are accounted for using the net asset value, with separate presentation of the goodwill component under intangible fixed assets . Results on transactions involving the 
transfer of assets and liabilities between the Company and its participating interests and mutually between participating interests themselves, are eliminated to the extent that the y can be considered as not realized. For an appropriate 
interpretation of these statutory financial statements, the separate financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements . 
Participating interests with a negative net asset value are valued at nil. This measurement also covers any receivables provided to the participating interests that are, in substance, an extension of the net investment. In particular, this relat es 
to loans for which settlement is neithe r planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future. A share in the profits of the 
participating interest in subsequent years will only be recognised if and to the extent that the cumulative unrecognised share of loss has been absorbed. If the Company fully or partially guarantees the debts of the relevant participating interest, or if has the constructive obligation to enable the participating interest to pay its debts (for its share therein) , 
then a provision is recognised accordingly to the amount of the estimated payments by the Company on behalf of the 
participating interest.  
Information on the use of financial instruments and on related risks for the group is provided in Note 23 of the 
consolidated financial statements.  The Company makes use of the option to eliminate intragroup expected credit losses 
against the book value of loans and receivables from the Company to participating interests, instead of elimination against the equity value / net asset value of the participating interests.  
Other inco me consists mainly of the charge out of the parent company related corporate overhead and services to the 
group companies . 
Statutory and fiscal seat  
The statutory seat of Koninklijke DSM N.V. is Het Overloon 1, Heerlen (Netherlands). A list of Koninklijke DSM N.V.’s  
participations has been filed with the Chamber of Commerce (Netherlands) and is available from the company upon request, as well as on the company website
. DSM is registered in the Dutch Commercial Register under number 14022069.  
The company forms a fiscal unity for corporate income tax and VAT purposes together with the group companies in  the 
Netherlands . Each of the companies recognizes the portion of corporate income tax that the relevant company would owe 
as an independent tax payer, taking into account the tax liabilities applicable to the company.  
Change in structure  
As per 1 January 2020 the Corporate service activities have been transferred from Koninklijke DSM N.V. to a separate legal entity, DSM Services B.V. As a result, the associated balance sheet and income statement items are no longer part of the financial statements of Koninklijke DSM N.V. The impact on the individual balance sheet items is included in the notes. The income statement represents in 2020 the items which are related to the parent company only.  Notes to the parent company financial statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  261 2 Intangible assets  
The carrying amount of intangible assets comprises goodwill on the acquisition  of Erber Group in 2020 (€469 million, 
representing 90% of the total goodwill of € 522 million; the remaining goodwill of €53 million has been recognized by a 
subsidiary of Koninklijke DSM N.V., as 10% of the shares in the Erber Group have been acquired by  that subsidiary), see also 
Note 3 Change in the scope of the consolidation  of the ‘C onsolidated financial statements ’, NeoResins in 2005 (€358 
million), Crina in 2006 (€8 million) and Pentapharm in 2007 (€36 million). For f ull information on these assets including the 
discussion of the related impairment tests, see Note 8 Intangible assets  to the ‘Consolidated financial statements ’. Other 
intangible assets are related to the Corporate service activities and have therefore been transferred at book value to the services company, see 
Note 1 General . 
Intangible assets of Koninklijke DSM N.V.  
Goodwill Under 
construction Other Total 
Balance at 1 January 2019  
Cost 400 4 85 489 
Amortization and impairment losses  - - 58 58 
Carrying amount  400 4 27 431 
Changes in carrying amount:  
-Capital expenditure - 3 - 3
-Put into operation - (3) 3 - 
- Exchange difference  2 - - 2 
-Amortization - - (8) (8) 
Balance at 31 December 2019  
Cost 402 4 88 494 
Amortization and impairment losses  - - (66) (66) 
Carrying amount  402 4 22 428 
. 
Changes in carrying amount:  
-Acquisition 469 - - 469 
-Intragroup transfer - (4) (22) (26)
Balance at 31 December 2020  
Cost 871 - - 871 
Amortization and impairment losses  - - - - 
Carrying amount  871 - - 871 
3 Property, plant and equipment  
On 1 january 2020, all land and buildings  owned by Koninklijke DSM N.V. were transferred at their book value (€12 million) 
to DSM Services B.V.  As a result of this transfer no Property, plant and equipment remains at the balance sheet of Koninklijke DSM N .V.  Notes to the parent company financial statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  262 4 Financial assets  
Share  in 
Subsidiaries Other  
participating  
interests   Receivables   Total   
Balance at 1 January 2019  10,407  37 36 10,480  
Changes:  
-Share in profit 800 - - 800 
-Charged to income statement - - (9) (9) 
-Dividend received (877) - - (877)  
-Capital payments 254 - - 254 
-Net actuarial gains/(losses) (16) - - (16) 
-Change in Fair value reserve (19) (1) - (20)
-Change in Hedging reserve 21 - - 21 
-Exchange differences 129 - - 129 
-Other (13) - (2) (15)
Balance at 31 December 2019  10,686  36 25 10,747  
. 
Changes:  
-Share in profit 585 - - 585 
-Charged to income statement - - - 
- Dividend received  (227) - - (227)  
-Capital payments 715 - - 715 
-Acquisition of subsidiaries 392 - - 392 
-Net actuarial gains/(losses) (19) - - (19) 
-Change in Fair value reserve 93 5 - 98
-Change in Hedging reserve 31 - - 31 
-Exchange differences (453)  - - (453)  
-Intra -group transfers 130 - - 130 
-Other (20) - (3) (23)
Balance at 31 December 2020  11,913  41 22 11,976  
The In
tra-group transfer of €130 million relates to the transfer of the Corporate service departments into a separate legal 
entity.  
5 Deferred tax assets  
The deferred tax asset of €132 million relates to net operating losses  and temporary differences in the Dutch fiscal unity , of 
which €44 million is recoverable within 1 year. Main movement of the deferred tax asset i n 2020 is a tax income of € 24 
million was included, which represents an effective tax rate of 23.3%  (2019: tax income of € 23 million , representing an 
effective tax rate of 32.4% ). Other movements  of the deferred tax assets (mainly settlements with group companies and 
utilization of net operating gain) amounts to €9 million  (2019: -€34 million).  
The effective tax rate in 2020 was positively impacted by tax exempt income and non -deductible expenses. In 2019 the tax 
exempt and non -deductible items caused an increase of the effective tax rate, together  with some other effects.  
6 Receivables 
2020  2019 
Receivables from subsidiaries  49 94 
Other receivables  14 7 
Total  63 101 Notes to the parent company financial statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  263 The carrying values of the receivables are a reasonable approximation of their respective fair values, given the short 
ma
turities of the positions and the fact that allowances for doubtful debts have been recognized, if necessary.  
7 Shareholders’ equity  
Fo
r details see the consolidated statement of changes in Note 16 Equity  to the ‘C onsolidated financial statements ’. 
Legal reserves 
In Shareholders’ equity, a total amount of - €14 million (2019: €428 million) is included for legal reserves required by Dutch 
law, of which - €289 million (2019: €162 million) Translation reserve, €223 million (2019: €267 million) reserve for capitalized 
development costs, €120 million (2019: €116 million) reserve for participating interests and - €68 million (2019: - €122 million) 
as hedging reserve relating to cashflow hedge accounting. The translation reserve relates to exchange gains and losses 
arising fro m the translation of the functional currency of foreign operations to the reporting currency of Koninklijke DSM 
N.V.  The legal reserve for participating interests is recorded to the extent that there are limitations for Koninklijke DSM N.V.
to arrange pro fit distributions from its participating interests. In addition, a revaluation reserve of €0 million (2019: €5
million) has been included for fair value changes of unquoted equity instruments of participating interests owned by DSM;the debit balance of -€ 6 million in 2020 is recorded as part of Other reserves , which are considered freely distributable
reserves.
Other  reserves 
The Other reserves amounting to €114 million (2019: 51 million) comprise a Fair value reserve of €79 million (2019: €0 
million), the  debit balance of - €6 million of the legal reserve for fair value changes of unquoted equity instruments of 
participating interests owned by DSM, and a Reserve for share- based compensation of €41 million (2019: €51 million).  
In the ‘Consolidated financial statements’, the Other reserves consist of the Translation reserve, Fair value reserve, Hedgin g 
reserve and Reserve for share- based compensation. See Note 16 Equity  to the ‘C onsolidated financial  statements ’.
 
Profit appropriation  
According to article 32 of the Articles of Association of Koninklijke DSM N.V. and with the approval of the Supervisory Board , 
every year the Managing Board  determines the portion of the net profit to be appropriated to the reserves. For the year 
2020, the net profit is  €506  million (2019 : €758 million) and the amount to be appropriated to the reserves has been 
established at €86 mi llion (201 9: €333 million). From the subsequent  balance of the net profit of €420  million (201 9: €425 
million), dividend is first distributed on the cumulative preference shares B. At the end of 20 20 no cumprefs B were in issue 
(same as for 2019 ). Subsequently, a 2.94 % (2019: 3.26%) dividend is distributed on the cumula tive preference shares A, 
based on a share price of €5.29 (2019 : €5.29) per cumulative preference share A. For 2020 , this distribution amounts to  
€0.16 (2019: €0.17) per share, which is € 7 million in total. An interim dividend of €0.06 per cumulative preference share A 
paid in August 20 20, the final dividend will then amount to €0.1 0 per cumulative preference share A.  2020  2019 
Balance at 1 January  7,731 7,782  
Net profit for the year  506 758 
Exchange differences, net of income tax  (451) 125 
Net actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit obligations  (20) (15) 
Net fair value changes in Other participating interests  98 (16) 
Dividend  (423)  (414)  
Repurchase of shares  (309)  (869)  
Proceeds from reissue of ordinary  
shares  206 324 
Other changes  61 56 
Balance at 31 December  7,399  7,731 Notes to the parent company financial statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  264  The profit remaining after distribution of these dividends on the cumulative preference shares A o f €413  million  
(2019: €417 million) will be put at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders in accordance with the 
provisions of Article 32, section 5 of the Articles of Association. 
The Managing Board proposes a dividend on ordinary shares outstanding for the year 20 20 of €2.40  (2019: €2.40) per share. 
With an interim dividend of €0. 80 (2019: €0.77) per ordinary share paid in August 20 20, the final dividend will then amount 
to €1.60  (2019: €1.63) per ordinary sha re. 
If the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders makes a decision in accordance with the proposal, the net profit will be 
appropriated as follows . 
 
   
8 Borrowings  
 2020  2019 
 Total    Of which    
current    Total    Of which    
current    
Debenture loans  3,237   -  2,244   -  
Total  3,237   -  2,244   -  
 
At 31 December 20 20, there were six  debenture loans  (€3,237  million, maturing in 2022, 2024  and from 2025 through 20 32). 
The repayment schedule for borrowings is as follows . 
Borrowings by maturity  
 
   
 
In agreements governing loans with a residual amount at year -end 2020 of € 3,237  million (31 December 2019:  €2,244 
million), clauses have been included which restrict the provision of security. More information on borrowings is provided in Note 19  
to the 'Consolidated financial statements'.  
9 Other current l iabilities  
 2020   2019  
Liabilities to subsidiaries  2,308   1,333  
Other liabilities  92  45  
Total  2,400   1,378   in € million  2020   2019  
Net profit for the year  506  758  
Profit appropriation:    
- To be added to the reserves  86  333  
- Dividend on cumprefs A  7  8  
- Interim dividend on ordinary shares  137  136  
- Final dividend distributable on ordinary shares  276  281  
 2020   2019  
2021 -  -  
2022 500  500  
2023 -  -  
2024 and 2025  997  997  
After 2025  1,740   747  
Total  3,237   2,244   Notes to the parent company financial statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  265 The L
iabilities to subsidiaries concerns mainly the current account towards the DSM internal financing company. These 
liabilities carry a short -term maturity and are interest -bearing. The increase of this current account in 2020 is mainly 
caused by capital payments, dividend payments, repurchase of own shares, offset by dividend receipts from subsidiaries.  
The carrying values of the recorded liabilities are a reasonable approximation of their respective fair values, given the 
short maturities of the positions. 
10 Contingent liabilities  
Guarantee obligations on behalf of affiliated companies and third parties amounted to € 521 million  (31 December 20 19: 
€502 million). Koninklijke DSM N.V. has declared in writing that it accepts several liabilities for debts arising from acts in 
law of a number of consolidated companies (including relating to the Dutch fiscal unity for income tax and VAT). These 
debts are included in the consolidated balance sheet.  
11 Personnel  
The average number of employees working for Koninklijke DSM N.V. in 2020 was 2 (2019: 3).  
12 Financial income and expense  
Financial expense of € 95 million (201 9: net €7 9 million) mainly consists of the interest costs on bonds issued and the 
counterpart of the net investment hedge. See also Note 19 Borrowings  and Note 23 Financial instruments and risks  to the 
‘Consolidated financial statements ’.
13 Remuneration of Managing Board and Supervisory Board 
Disclosure of the total board remuneration is based on section 383 book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Furthermore, the members of the Executive Committee (which includes the Mana ging Board) and the Supervisory Board meet the definition 
of key management personnel as defined in IAS 24 ‘Related Parties’. IAS 24 requires disclosure of the total of short -term 
employee benefits (salary and short -term incentive), post -employment (pension expenditure) and other long -term benefits 
(none), termination benefits and share -based payment cost ( share-based compensation), which are reported in the table 
below . 
Key management personnel compensation and total board remuneration  
2020  2019 
Salary  5,145  4,695  
Short -term incentive  2,679  2,565  
Pension expenditure  956 982 
Share -based compensation  7,526  6,494  
Other1 3,628  2,022  
Total key management personnel compensation  19,934  16,758  
Of which: Managing Board remuneration1, 2 12,096  7,705  
. 
Supervisory Board remuneration  806 826 
1 Includes €2, 629 million (2019: €1 ,265 million ), subject to article 32bb of the Dutch Wage Tax Act, being a n expense  to the company due to 
vesting of share units already granted in previous years.  
2 See Remuneration report 2020 . Notes to the parent company financial statements  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  266 Heerlen, 1 March  2021 Heerlen, 1 March  2021 
Managing Board,  Supervisory Board,  
Geraldine Matchett, Co -CEO Rob Routs, Chair  
Dimitri de Vreeze, Co-CEO Pauline van der Meer -Mohr, Deputy Chair  
Eileen Kennedy  
Thomas Leysen  
Erica Mann  
Frits van Paasschen  
Pradeep Pant  
John Ramsay  Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  267 Other information  
Independent auditor ’s report  
To: the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and the Sup ervisory Board  of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 
Report on the audit of  the financial statements 2020  included in  the 
Integrated A nnual Report 
Our opinion  
In our opinion:  
-the accompanying consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of Koninklijke
DSM N.V.  (hereafter: Royal DSM) as at 31 December 2020  and of its result and its cash flows for the year then ended,
in accordance with In ternational Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (EU -IFRS) and
with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
-the accompanying  parent  company financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of Royal
DSM as at 31 December 2020 and of its result for the year then ended in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the
Dutch Civil Code.
What we have audited  
We have audited the financial statements 2020  of Royal DSM  based in  Heerlen . The financial statements include t he 
consolidated financial statements and the  parent  company financial statements . 
The consolidated financial statements comprise: 
1 the consolidated balance sheet  as at  31 December 2020 ; 
2 the following consolidated statements for 2020 : the income statement, the statements of comprehensive income, 
changes in equity and cash flows ; and 
3 the notes comprising a summary of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information . 
The 
parent company financial statements comprise: 
1 the parent  company balance sheet as at 31 December 2020 ; 
2 the parent company income statement for 2020; and  
3 the notes comprising a summary of the accounting policies and other explanatory information.  
Basis for our opinion  
We conducted our audit in accordance with Du tch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities 
under those standards are further described in the ‘Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements’ section o f 
our report.  
We are independent of Royal DSM  in accordanc e with the ‘ Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij 
assurance -opdrachten ’ (ViO, Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence) and 
other relevant independence regulations in the Netherlands. Furthermore, we have complied with the ‘ Verordening 
gedrags - en beroepsregels accountants ’ (VGBA, Dutch Code of Ethics).  Other information – Indep endent auditor’s report 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  268 We believe the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.  
Audit approach  
Summary  
Materiality 
-Materiality of EUR 45 million
-5.9% of normalized profit before income tax expense
Group audit  
-Audit at (business) group and local entity level resulting in a coverage of 73% of net sales and 79% of total assets
Key audit matters  
-Impairment of cash generating units DAS and BP&S
-Accounting for acquisitions of Glycom and Erber
-Announced divestment of Resins and Functional Materials and associated businesses
Opinion  
Unqualified  
Materiality  
Based on our professional judgement we determined the materiality for the financial statements as a whole at EUR 45 
million (2019: EUR 45 million). The materiality is determined with reference to profit before  income tax expense, normalized  
for acquisition/divestment related expenses and current year’s  impairments of the cash generating units DSM Advanced 
Solar and DSM Bio-based Products & Services  to arrive at a normalized level , resulting in a percentage of 5.9 % (2019: 5. 5%). 
We consider  this normalized  profit before income tax expense as the most appropriate benchmark following  our analysis 
of the common information needs of users of the financial statements. For 2020 and 2019, this benchmark  has been 
influenced by the announced divestment  of the Resins and Functional Materials  and associated businesses. Although 
included in  net profit for the year, the results  of these businesses and related activities have been presented separate  
from  continu ing operations, and are no longer part of (norm alized) profit before income tax expense. In addition, the 
appropriateness of the materiality was assessed by comparing the amount to consolidated net sales of which it represents 0.6% (2019: 0. 6%). We have also taken into account misstatements and/or poss ible misstatements that in our opinion are 
material for the users of the financial statements for qualitative reasons.  
We agreed with the Supervisory Board that misstatements in excess of EUR 2 million (2019: EUR 2 million) which are 
identified during the  audit, would be reported to them, as well as smaller misstatements that in our view must be reported 
on qualitative grounds.  
Scope of the group audit  
Royal DSM  is at the head of a group of  components . The financial information of this group is included in  the financial 
statements of  Royal DSM . 
Because we are ultimately responsible for the auditor’s report, we are also responsible for directing, supervising and performing the group audit. In this respect we have determined the nature and extent of the audit  procedures to be 
carried out for components  reporting for group audit purposes. Decisive were the size and/or the risk profile of the 
components  or operations. Based on our risk assessment , we selected 26  components (2019: 22 components ) to perform Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  269 Other information – Indep endent auditor’s report 
audits for group rep orting purposes on a complete set of financial information. In addition, we selected 16 components 
(2019 : 14  components ) to perform specified audit procedures for group reporting purposes on specific items of financial 
in
formation. 
This resulted i n a coverage of 7 3% (2 019: 7 3%) of t otal n et sales an d 79% (2019: 7 6 %) of t otal as sets. T he re maining 2 7% of 
total n e t s ales ( 2019: 2 7%) an d 21 % of total assets ( 2019: 2 4%) is represented b y a si gnificant n umber o f components 
(‘Remaining compone nts’), none o f which individually r e presen t more t han 3 % of total net s ales an d 2% of tot al as s ets.  
For these remaining c omponents , we performed a mong o thers a nalytical p rocedures t o validate our a s sessment t hat there 
are n o risks of m a terial m isstatement within these components . 
Our p rocedures a s described above can b e summarized as follows: 
Total assets  
70% 9% 21%
Full scope audit  Specified audit procedures  Central procedures remaining 
components  
Total net sales  
55% 18% 27% 
Full scope audit  Specified audit procedures  Central procedures remaining 
components  
We h
ave: 
-performed audit procedures at group level in respect of areas such as the annual goodwill impairment tests, other
asset impairment assessments, accounting for associates and join t ventures, income tax for the Dutch fiscal unities,
acquisitions of subsidiaries, accounting for divestments, restructuring provisions, treasury and shared servicecenters; and
-used the work of local KPMG and non -KPMG auditors (both ‘component auditors’) when auditing financial
information or performing specified audit procedures at business group and component level.
Th
e group audit team has set materiality levels for the components, which ranged from EUR 2 million to EUR 12.5 million 
(2019: EUR 5 million to EUR 12.5 million), based on the mix of size and risk profile of the respective components.  
The group audit team provided detailed instructions to all business group and component  auditors  part of the group audit, 
cover ing the significant audit areas , includ ing the relevant risks of material misstatement, and the information required to 
be reported back to the g roup audit team.  
As part of  our original audit plan to evaluate the component auditors’ communications and the adequacy of their work , we 
intended to visit the component auditors and component locations in the United States of America, Switzerland, China, 
Denmark, Spain  and the shared service center in India  to review selected component auditor documentation. In view of Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  270 Other information – Indep endent auditor’s report 
restrictions on the movement of peopl e across borders, and also within significantly affected countries, due to the Covid-19 
p
andemic ,  the group au dit team considered h ow to make a ppropriate changes to th e audit p l an. Du e to t he 
aforementioned r estricti ons, travelling generally was not practicable , and we o nly v i sited in person the component 
au
ditors and Royal D SM’s locations in De nmark. As a r esult, we h a ve r equested other component au d itors to provide u s  
with remot e access t o audit w or kpapers t o perform these e valuations. I n  addition, d ue to the inability t o arrange i n-p erson 
meetings w i th s uch co mponent a uditors and l ocal m anagement , we have increased t h e use of a lternative methods o f 
c
ommunication with them, including issuing ad ditional written i nstru ctions, ex change of e mails a nd virtual m eetings. 
Virtual meetings were held w i th a ll component auditors that pa rticipated in the gro up audit. D uring these (virtual) 
m
eetings , we d i scussed the au dit ap proach and t he audit findings an d obs ervations r eported t o the g r oup au dit team. 
B
y per forming t he procedures m entioned a b ove at components , to gether w ith additional p rocedures a t (business) group 
l
evel, w e have been a ble to obtain s u fficient a n d a ppropriate a udit ev i dence ab out t he gr oup’s f inancial i nformation t o 
p
rovide an op inion ab out t he financial s tatements. 
Our f ocus on t he risk of f raud and n on-compliance w ith laws an d re gulations 
Our objectives 
The objectives o f  our audit w ith respect t o fraud a nd non-compliance with laws an d re gulations ar e as follows. 
Wi
th respect to f raud: 
-to i
dentify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial  statements due to fraud;
-to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material missta tement due to fraud,
through  designing and implementing appropriate audit responses;
-to obtain a high ( but not absolute) level  of assurance that the financial statements, taken as a whole, are free from
material misstatement, due to fraud; and
-to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
With
 respect to non -compliance with laws and regulations:  
-to identify and assess the risk of material misstatement of the financial statements due to non -compliance with
laws and regul ations; and
-to obtain a high ( but not absolute) level  of assurance that the financial statements, taken as a whole, are free from
material misstatement, due to such non- compliance when considering the applicable legal and regulatory
framework.
Th
e primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud and non -compliance with laws and regulations lies 
with the Managing  Board, with oversight by the Supervisory Board.  
Our risk assessment  
As part of our process of identifying fraud risks, we evaluated fraud risk factors with respect to fraudulent financial 
reporting and misappropriation of as sets. We, together with our forensics specialists, evalua ted the fraud risk  factors to 
consider whether those factors indi cated a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.   
In addition, we performed procedures to obtain an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are 
applicable to Royal DSM  and we inquired the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board as to whether Royal DSM is in 
compliance with such laws and regulations and inspected correspondence, if  any, with relevant licensing and regulatory 
authorities. 
The potential effect of the identified  laws and regulations on  the financial  statements varies considerably. 
Firstly , Royal DSM  is subject to laws and regulations that directly affect the financial statements , including taxation and 
financial reporting. We assessed the extent of compliance with these laws and regulations as part of our  audit  procedures 
on the related financial statement items .  Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  271 Other information – Independent auditor’s report 
Secondly, Royal DSM is subje ct to many other laws and regulations for which the consequences of non-c ompliance could 
h
ave a n indirect material effect o n amounts recognized o r  disclosure s provided in th e financial stat ements, or b oth, for 
i
nstance t hrough the i mposition of f i nes o r litigation. We i d entified th e following areas as t hose m os t likely t o have s u ch 
an indirect effect:  
-Com
petition legislation (reflecting Royal DSM ’s operations across the world and potential investigations by national
competition authorities);
-Health  and safety regulation (reflecting the nature of Royal DSM ’s production and distribution processes);
-Employment legislation (reflecting Royal DSM ’s significant and geographically diverse work force);
-Consumer product law relating to  product safety (reflecting the nature of Royal DSM ’s diverse product base);
-Environmental regulation (reflecting the environmental clean -up responsibilities  related to mainly Royal DSM ’s
former production  and distribution processes).
In a
ccordance with  the auditing standard s we evaluated  the following fraud  risks that are  relevant to our audit , including 
the relevant presumed risks:  
-fraud risk in relation to revenue recognition  (presumed risk) , specifically being the risk of manual override with
respect to the cut -off of reven ue; and
-fraud risk in relation to management override of controls to meet targets and/or expectations  (presumed risk) .
We co
mmunicated the identified  risks of  fraud throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of fraud and/or 
non-compliance throughout the audit. This included communication from the group to component teams of relevant  risks 
of fraud identified at group level.  
In all of our audits, we address the risk of management override of controls, including evaluating whether there was 
evidence of bias  by management that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud . We refer to the key audit 
matter ‘Accounting for the acquisitions  of Glycom and the Erber Group’ , which  is an example of our approach related to 
areas of higher risk due to accounting estimates where management makes  significant judgements.  
We communicated  our risk assessment and audit response  to the Managing Board  and the Supervisory Board. Our audit 
procedures differ from a specific forensic fraud investigation, which often has a more in -depth character.  
Our response to the risks identified  
We performed the following audit procedures (not limited) to respond to the as sessed risks:  
-We evaluated the design  and implementation  of inte rnal controls that mitigate fraud risks.
-We performed data analysis o n high- risk journal entries and evaluated key estimates and judgements for bias by
management, such as estimates relating to goodwill impairment testing and accounting for acquisitions of
subsidiaries , including retrospective reviews of prior year's estimates. Where we identified instances of unexpected
journal entries or other risks through our data analytics, we performed additional audit procedures to address each
identified risk. These procedures also included testing of transactions back to source infor mation.
-We assessed  matters included on the Royal DSM a lert cases (whistleblower procedures) and fraud incidents , and the
results of management's investigation of such matters .
-With respect to the risk of frau d of revenue recognition, we carried out inspection and testing of documentation
such as agreements with customers and shipping documents .
-We incorporated elements of unpredictability in our audit.
-We considered the outcome of our other audit procedures and evaluated whether any findings or misstatemen ts
were  indicative of fraud  or non -compliance .
-We obtained audit evidence regarding compliance with the provisions of those laws and regulations generallyrecognized  to have a direct effect on the determination of material amounts and disclosures in the fi nancial
statements .Other information – Indep endent auditor’s report 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  272 We do note that our audit is based on the procedures described in line with applicable auditing standards. In addition to 
th
e requirements of the auditing standards we have performed the following procedures as part of our risk assessm ent: 
-An assessment of DSM’s activities with respect to cyber security threats; and
-Data-analys es on revenue and purchase related areas, for a selection of components rotating year over year.
Our
 procedures to address identified risks of fraud did not result in a key audit matter. 
We do note that our audit is not primarily designed to detect fraud and non -compliance with laws and regulations and that 
the Managing Board is responsible for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to errors or fraud, including compliance with laws and regulations.  
The more distant non -compliance with indirect laws and regulations (irregularities) is from the events and transactions 
reflected in the financial statements, the less likely it is that the inherently limited procedures required by auditing 
standards would identify it.  In additio n, as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of  non-detection of irregularities, as 
these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.  
Our key audit matters  
Key audit matters are tho se matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the 
financial statements. We have communicated the key audit matters to the  Supervisory Board.  The key audit matters  are not 
a comprehensive reflection of all matters  discussed. 
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters . 
Compared to last year the key audit matter with respe ct to the (announced) d ivestment of DSM Resins and Functional 
Materials and associated businesses has been added, because the announcement occurred in 2020.  Other information – Indep endent auditor’s report 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  273 Impairment of cash generating units DAS and BP&S  
Description  
As mentioned in Note 8 to the financial statements, the cash generating unit (‘CGU’) DSM Advanced Solar (‘DAS’),  is 
expecting insufficient future cashflows for the solar assets that remain following the announced sale of the solar coating activities to Covestro. Furthermore, the CGU D SM Bio -based Products & Services (‘BP&S’) is facing an expected 
subdued market outlook for biofuels, as also evidenced by the ceased activities of POET- DSM as mentioned in Note 10 to 
the financial statements.  
These events are considered indications that the respective assets may be impaired and consequently Royal DSM performed impairment testing in respect of the abovementioned CGUs. As reflected in Note 8 to the financial statements, Royal DSM recognized an impairment of EUR 110 million with respect to its  CGUs DAS and BP&S, which 
mainly relates to intangible assets. Given the financial impact of these events and  the determination of the recoverable 
amounts, the accounting for these impairments is significant for our audit of the financial statements.  
Our response  
We evaluated the design and implementation of controls with respect to Royal DSM’s impairment testing process. We assessed the appropriate identification of DAS and BP&S as separate CGUs. Since the impairment testing is related to CGUs for which i nsufficient future cash flows are expected, our audit procedures of evaluating the recoverable amount 
focused on assessing the fair value less costs to sell (‘FVLCS’), which was assessed by Royal DSM as  immaterial. Our 
audit procedures included, among others, inspecting board minutes of the decision -making and thus obtaining an 
understanding of the business rationale of the decisions made. We furthermore assessed the reasonableness of the residual value assumptions, by inspection of management’s written pla ns, inquiry of management involved in the 
impairment testing process and by inspection of available external information. Finally, we assessed the adequacy of the disclosure (Note 8) to the financial statements.  
Our observation  
We consider that the impairments are appropriately reflected in the financial statements and we assessed the disclosure (Note 8) to the financial statements as being adequate.
 Other information – Indep endent auditor’s report 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  274 Accounting for acquisitions of Glycom and Erber  
Description  
As disclosed in Note 3 to the financial statements, during 2020, Royal DSM completed the acquisitions of Glycom A/S 
and Erber Group. The acquisitions involved a total consideration of EUR 1,579 million and had an aggregated impact on Goodwill and Intangibl e assets of EUR 862 million and EUR 824 million respectively . 
The acquisitions were significant to our audit due to the financial impact and complexity of purchase price accounting including related judgements and assumptions used in the determination of the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
 
Our response  
We inspected the agreements and other documents underlying the acquisitions to gain an understanding of the contractual terms and conditions to assess the consideration and the acquired identifiable assets and liabilities. We obtained the reports from the external valuation experts engaged by Royal DSM to assist management with the purchase price accounting and the identification of identifiable assets and liabilities in the respective business combinations. We involved valuation specialists to evaluate management’s valuation models, and assumptions used such as growth rates and discount rates to arrive at the fair value of assets and liabilities recognized i n the purchase 
price allocation. Our assessment of key assumptions used by management included a comparison with available external information such as market indices and financial metrics of peer companies.  
We also evaluated the adequacy of the disclosure (Note 3) of the acquisitions in the financial statements.
 
Our observation  
We consider that the outcome of the purchase price accounting is reasonable. The acquisitions are adequately disclosed in Note 3 to the financial statements .
 Other information – Indep endent auditor’s report 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  275 Announced divestme nt of Resins and Functional Materials and associated businesses  
Description  
As disclosed in Note 3 to the financial statements, on 30 September 2020, Royal DSM announced their agreement to sell 
the Resins and Functional Materials and associated businesses (‘RFM business’) to Covestro, subject to certain conditions and approvals. Management concluded that the RFM business classifies as held for sale and should be presented as discontinued operations.  
This event is significant to our audit because the assessment of the classification as asset held for sale and discontinued operations is complex, the transaction and its accounting is non -routine and involves a certain level of 
management judgement. These include, amongst others, determining the date of classification of the RFM business as held for sale and the presentation of its results separately as discontinued operations. This involves determining whether charges from other DSM group companies to the RFM business should be presented as part of co ntinuing or 
discontinued operations. Furthermore, upon classification of the RFM business as discontinued operation, management had to measure this business at the lower of the carrying amount and its fair value less cost to sell. 
 
Our response  
We inspected the contractual agreements and other relevant documents underlying the announced divestment in order 
to understand key terms and conditions and to assess the accounting impact. Our audit procedures included, among others, an assessment of the app ropriateness of the classification of the RFM business as held for sale and the 
presentation of its results as discontinued operations.  
This included evaluating management’s judgements over the identification of the disposal group, assessing the date as of which the RFM business is classified as held for sale, assessing the valuation of the assets of the RFM business at the 
lower of the carrying amount and fair value less cost of disposal, and testing the presentation of the RFM business in the financial st atements. We evaluated the recognition and presentation of the results of the RFM business as 
discontinued operations in the financial statements by testing the allocation to continuing or discontinued operations, and by evaluating management’s assumptions  in allocating charges from other group companies to the RFM business.  
Finally, we assessed the adequacy of both the presentation as assets held for sale and discontinued operations and the disclosure (Note 3) of the announced divestment in the financial statements.  
Our observation  
We consider that the measurement of the RFM business, as well as the presentation of its assets and liabilities as held 
for sale and its results as those from discontinued operations, is adequately reflected and disclosed in Note 3 to the 
financial statements.
 Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  276 Other information – Indep endent auditor’s report 
Report on the other information included in the Integrated Annual Report 
I
n addition to t he financial s tatements a nd ou r a uditor’s r eport t hereon, the Integrated A n nual R eport contains ot h er 
in
formation. 
Based o n the following p rocedures p erformed, w e conclude that t he other i n formation : 
-is
 consistent with the financial statements and does not contain material misstatements ; and
-contains the information as required by Part  9 of Book  2 of the Dutch Civil Code .
We
 have read the other information. Based on our knowledge and understanding obtained through our audit of the 
financial statements or otherwise, we have considered whether the other information contains material misstatements . 
By performing these procedures, we comply with the requirements of Part  9 of Book  2 of the Dutch Ci vil Code and the 
Dutch Standard 720. The scope of the procedures performed is less than the scope of those performed in our audit of the 
financial statements .  
The Managing Board  is responsible for the preparation of the ot her information, including the information as required by 
Part 9 of Book  2 of the Dutch Civil Code . 
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements  
Engagement  
We were engaged by the Annual  General Meeting of Shareholders as auditor of Royal DSM  on 7 May 2014 , as of the audit for 
the year 201 5 and have operated as statutory auditor since that financial year . 
No prohibited non -audit services  
We have not provided prohibited non -audit services as referred to in Article 5(1) of the EU  Regulation on specific 
requirements regarding statutory audit s of public -interest entities . 
Description of responsibilities regarding the financial statements 
Responsibilities of the Managing Board  and the  Superviso ry Board  for the financial statements  
The Managing Board  is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with 
EU-IFRS and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Furthermore, the Managing Board is respon sible for such internal 
control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial statements that are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error . 
As part of the preparation of the financial statements, the  Managing Board is responsible for assessing the Royal DSM’s  
ability to continue as a going concern.  
Based on the financial reporting frameworks mentioned,  the Managing Board should prepare the financial statements 
using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Managing Board either intends to liquidate the Company or to 
cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. The Managing Board  should disclose e vents and 
circumstances that may cast significant doubt on Royal DSM ’s ability to continue as a going concern in the financial 
statements.   
The Supervisory Board  is responsible for overseeing Royal DSM ’s financial reporting process.  Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  277 Other information – Indep endent auditor’s report 
Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements 
Our ob jective i s to p lan an d perform t he au dit engagement in a manner t h at allows u s to ob tain s ufficient an d appropriate 
audit e vidence f or ou r opinion .  
Our au dit has be en p e rformed w ith a high, b ut not ab solute, level o f assurance, w hich m eans w e may n o t d etect a l l 
material e rrors a n d f raud d u ring our audit . 
M
isstatements c an ar i se f rom fraud or e rror an d are con sidered m aterial i f , i ndividually or i n th e aggregate, t hey c ould 
r
easonably b e expected t o influence the economic decisions o f users t a ken o n th e basis o f these financial s t atements. T he 
materiality a ffects t he nature, timing a nd ex t ent o f our au dit p rocedures a nd th e evaluation o f the effect o f identified 
misstatements on ou r opinion .  
A fu rther d escriptio n of o ur responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is inc luded in appendix of this 
auditor's r e port. T his d escription f orms p art of ou r auditor’s r eport. 
Amstelveen, 1 M arch 2 021 
KPMG A ccountants N .V. 
P.J. Groenland – van d er Li nden R A 
Appendix:  
Description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  278 Other information – Indep endent auditor’s report 
Appendix 
D
escription of o ur responsibilities for t he  audit of the f i nancial st atements 
We have exercised p r ofessional j udgement a nd ha ve maintained p rofessional scepticism throughout t he au dit, in 
a
ccordance with D u tch S tandards o n Auditing, et hical r equirements a nd independence requirements. O ur au dit included 
among others: 
-id
entifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or
error, designing and performing audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtaining audit evidence that is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis  for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement
resulting from fraud is higher than the risk  resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control ;
-obtaining an understanding of  internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the RoyalDSM’s internal control;
-evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and
related disclosures made by  the Managing Board;
-concluding on the appropriateness of the Managing Board’s  use of the going concern basis of accounting, and based
on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may castsignificant doubt on Royal DSM’s  ability to continue as a going concern. If we concl ude that a material uncertainty
exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financialstatements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the auditevidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause a company
to cease to continue as a going concern ;
-evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the  disclosures; and
-evaluating whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that
achieves fair presentation .
We are 
solely  responsible for the opinion  and therefore responsible to o btain sufficient appropriat e audit evidence 
regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the group to express an opinion on the financial statements.  In this respect we are also responsible for directing, supervising and performing the group audi t. 
We communicate with the Supervisory Board  regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit 
and significant audit findings, including any significant findings in internal control that we identify during our audit. In this respect we also submit an additional report to the Supervisory Board  in accordance with Article 11 of the EU Regulation on 
specific requirements regarding statutory audits of public- interest entities. The information included in this additional 
report is consist ent with our audit opinion in this auditor’s report.  
We provide the Supervisory Board  with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding 
independence, and to communicate with them  all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear 
on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. 
From the mat ters communicated with the Supervisory Board,  we determine the key audit matters: those matters that were 
of most significance in the au dit of the financial statements . We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law 
or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, not communicating the matter is in the public interest. 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  279  Assurance report of the independent auditor  
To: the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and the Supervisory Board of Koninklijke DSM N.V.  
Report on the audit of the S ustainability Information 20 20 included in  the 
Integrated Annual Report  
 Our opinion  
We have audited the sustainability information in the sections ‘Key data’, ’Co -CEO letter, ‘Our approach to the Sustainable 
Development Goals’, ‘Report by the Managing Board’, consisting of the section s Purpose, Strategy, Case studies, 
Stakeholders, People, Planet, the ‘Non -financial reporting policy’ and the 'Sustainability Statements', as included in the 
Integrated Annual Report for the year 2020 (hereafter: the ‘Sustainability Information’) of Koninklijke DSM N.V. (hereafter 
'Royal DSM'), based in Heerle n, the Netherlands.  
In our opinion, the Sustainability Information is prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards and Royal DSM's internally developed supplemental reporting criteria as disclosed in the  section 
Non-
financial reporting policy  of the Integrated Annual Report . 
Basis for our opinion  
We performed  our audit  on the Sustainability Information  in accordance with Dutch  law, including Dutch Standard 3810N 
'Assurance -opdrachten inzake maatschappelijke verslagen' (Assurance engagements relating to sustainability reports), 
which is a specified Dutch standard that is based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 'Assura nce Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information'. This engagement is aimed to 
obtain reasonable assurance. Our responsibilities in this regard are further described in the ‘Our responsibilities for the audit of the Sustainability Information’ section of our  report.  
We are independent of Royal DSM in accordance with the ‘Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij 
assurance -opdrachten’ (ViO, Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence). 
Furthermore, we have complied with the ‘Verordening gedrags - en beroepsregels accountants’ (VGBA, Dutch Code of 
Ethics).  
We believe the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion . 
Reportin g criteria  
The Sustainability Information needs to be read and understood together with the reporting criteria. Royal DSM is solely responsible for selecting and applying these reporting criteria, taking into account applicable law and regulations related to reporting.  
The reporting criteria used for the preparation of the Sustainability Information are the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards a nd Royal DSM's internally developed supplemental reporting criteria as disclosed in the section 
Non-financial 
reporting policy  of the Integrated Annual Report.  
The GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards are the most widely adopted global standards for sustainability reporting and are used by Royal DSM for reporting publicly on its Sustainability Information . Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  280 Other information – Assurance report of the independent auditor 
Materiality 
Based o n our professional j udgement w e determined m a teriality l evels f or ea ch  relevant p ar t of t he Sustainability 
Information as i ncluded i n Royal D SM’s In tegrated A nnual R eport . When e valuating o ur materiality le vels, w e have ta k en 
into account q uantitative an d qualitative c on siderations as w e ll as t he relevance of i nformation f or bot h s takeholders a nd 
Royal D SM. 
Scope of the group audit 
Royal D SM is th e h ead of a group of c om ponents. T he Sustainability I nformation i n corporates t h e c onsolidated i nformation 
of this g roup of components. 
Our g r oup au dit procedures c onsisted of au d it pr ocedures at co rporate and co mponent l evel. O u r s election o f  components 
in sc ope of ou r  assurance p rocedures i s  primarily b ased on t he com ponent's i ndividual c ontribution t o the c onsolidated 
Sustainability I nformation. F urthermore, ou r selection of c omponents c onsidered re levant re porting risks a nd ge o graphical 
spread. 
By performing our procedures at corpora te and component level, we have been able to obtain sufficient and appropriate 
as
surance evidence about Royal DSM's reported Sustainability Information to provide an opinion about the Sustainability 
I
nformation . 
Our key a ssurance matter 
Key as surance m atters of ou r aud it ar e th ose m atters t h at, i n our professional j udgement, w ere of m os t s ignificance i n our 
audit of t h e S ustainability I nformation. W e have c om municated t he key as s urance m atter t o t he M anaging Board an d th e 
Supervisory B oard. Th e key a ssurance matter i s no t a co m prehensive reflection o f all ma tters d iscussed. 
This as surance m atter w as ad dressed i n th e c ontext of ou r audit of the S ustainability I nformation as a whole a n d w e do 
n
ot provide a separate op inion on t his m atter. 
The sustainability indicator on Royal DSM's solutions labeled as Brighter Living Solutions was determined to be a key 
a
ssurance matter as the assessment is inherently subject to assump tions and management judgement, whereas the 
determination of other important sustainability indicators on Safety, Health and Environment and Human Resources 
r
equire such judgement to a lesser extent .  Other information – Assurance report of the independent auditor 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  281 Brighter Living  Solution s 
Description  
Royal DSM reports on Brighter Living Solutions ("BLS”), which are products and services that have specific environmental 
or social benefits compared to mainstream reference solutions.  
The related KPI is defined as net sales from BLS as a percentage of total net sales of Royal DSM. BLS was significant to our audit since we identified that it serves as a material indicator for Royal DSM to report on the environmental and social impact of its solutions and because the assessment of solutions to qualify as BLS is inheren tly subject to 
assumptions and judgement.  
Our response  
We evaluated the reporting process, internal controls and the applicable definitions and criteria. We interviewed Royal DSM’s staff members involved in the BLS assessment process to understand the app lication of these definitions and 
criteria and we challenged the underlying evidence, such as the life cycle assessments and expert opinions for solutions classified as BLS and assessed the calculation of the BLS percentage. Finally, we assessed whether the criteria, assumptions and definitions are adequately explained in the Integrated Annual Report and on the website of Royal DSM.  
Our observation  
We consider that the definitions and criteria for BLS as described in Royal DSM's internally developed supplemental  
reporting criteria , in the Non-financial reporting policy , are appropriately applied and that the assumptions are 
adequately explained. We also consider the disclosure on BLS as being adequate.  
Limitations to the scope of our audit  
The Sustainability Information includes prospective information such as ambitions, strategy, plans, expectations and estimates. Inherently the actual future results are uncertain. We do not provide any assurance on the assumptions and achievability of prospective information included in the aforementioned sections of Royal DSM's Integrated Annual Report.  
References to external sources or websites in the Integr ated Annual Report  are not part of the Integrated Annual Report  
itself  nor the Sustainability Information  as audited by us. Therefore, we do not provide assurance on this information . 
Responsibilities of the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board for the  Sustainability 
Information  
The Managing Board of Royal DSM is responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Information in accordance with 
the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards and Royal DSM's internally developed supplemental reporting crite ria as 
disclosed in the section Non -financial reporting policy  of Royal DSM’s Integrated Annual Report, including the 
identification of stakeholders and the definition of material matters. The choices made by the Managing Board regarding the scope of the Sustainability Information and the reporting policy are summarized in the section 'Non -financial reporting 
policy' of the Integrated Annual Report.  
Furthe rmore, the Managing Board is responsible for such internal control as it determines is necessary to enable the 
preparation of the Sustainability Information that is free from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error.  
The Supervisory Board is, amongst other things, responsible for overseeing Royal DSM's sustainability reporting process.  
Our responsibilities for the audit of the Sustainability Information  
Our responsibility is to plan and perform our assurance engagement in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate assurance evidence for our  opinion. Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  282 Other information – Assurance report of the independent auditor 
Our audit has been p erformed with a high, but not absolute, level of assurance, which means w e may not have detected all 
m
aterial m isstatements d ue to f raud or error. 
Misstatements c an ar ise from fraud or e r rors an d are con sidered m aterial i f, individually o r in the ag gregate, t hey c ould 
reasonably b e expected t o  influence the decisions o f users t a ken o n th e basis o f  the Sustainability In formation. Th e 
materiality affec ts the nature, timing a n d ex tent o f ou r a u dit p rocedures a nd the evaluation o f  the effect o f  identified 
misstatements on ou r opinion. 
We
 apply th e ‘N adere V oorschriften K w aliteitssystemen’ ( Regulations f or Qu ality m anagement systems) a nd accordingly 
mainta in a co mprehensive system o f qu ality co ntrol i ncluding d o cumented p olicies a nd procedures r egarding co mpliance 
with et hical r equirements, p r ofessional s tandards a nd ap plicable legal a n d r egulatory r eq uirements. 
We have exercised p r ofessional j udgement a nd have m a intained p r ofessional s kepticism throughout t he au dit, in 
a
ccordance with t he Dutch S tandard 3 810N, et hical r equirements a nd independence requirements. 
Our au d it i ncluded am ong ot hers: 
-Pe
rforming an analysis of the external environment and obtaining  an understanding of relevant social themes and
issues, and the characteristics of Royal  DSM;
-Evaluating the appropriateness of the reporting criteria used, their consistent application and related disclosures in
the Sustainability Information. This includ es the evaluation of the results of the stakeholders' dialogue and the
reasonableness of estimates made by management of Royal  DSM;
-Obtaining an understanding of the systems and processes for collecting, reporting and consolidating the Sustainability
Infor mation, including obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to our audit, but not for the purpose of
expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of Royal DSM's internal  control;
-Evaluating the procedures performed by the internal audit  departm ent;
-Identifying and assessing the risks of whether the Sustainability Information is misleading or unbalanced, or contains
material misstatements, whether due to errors or fraud. Designing and performing further audit procedures responsiveto those risks,  and obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The
risk that the Sustainability Information is misleading or unbalanced, or the risk of not detecting a materialmisstatement resulting from fraud is high er than for one resulting from errors. Fraud may involve collusion, forgery,
intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. These further procedures includedamong  others:
-Interviewing management and relevant staff of Royal DSM at corporate, business group and component levelresponsible for the sustainability strategy, policies and results;
-Interviewing relevant staff of Royal DSM responsible for providing the information for, carrying out internal control
procedures o n, and consolidating the data in the Sustainability Information;
-Determining the nature and extent of the audit procedures at corporate and component level. For this, the nature,
size and/or risk profile of these components were decisive. Based thereon we selected the components to visit. Inview of restrictions on the movement of people across borders, and also within significantly affected countries,due to the Covid -19 pandemic, we considered how to make appropriate changes to the audit plan. Due to the
aforementioned restrictions, travelling generally was not practicable in the current environment and weconducted  our visits to components mostly remotely. The visits were aimed at, on a component level, validating
source data and evaluating the design, implementation and operation of controls and validation procedures;
-Obtaining assurance information that the Sustainability Information reconciles with underlying records of RoyalDSM;
-Evaluating relevant internal and external documentation, on a test basis,  to determine the reliability of the
information in the Sustainability Information;  and
-Performing an analytical review of the data and  trends.Other information – Assurance report of the independent auditor  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  283  - Evaluating the consistency of the Sustainability Information with the information in the Integrated Annual Rep ort 
which is not included in the scope of our  audit;  
- Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the Sustainability Information; and  
- Considering whether the Sustainability Information as a whole, including the disclosures, reflects the purpose of the 
reporting criteria  used.  
 
We communicate with the Supervisory Board regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant findings, including any significant findings in internal control that we identify during our audit. 
Amstelveen, 1 March 2021  
KPMG Accountants N.V.  
P.J. Groenland – van d er Linden RA   
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  284  Special statutory rights 
DSM Preference Shares Foundation  
The DSM Preference Shares Foundation was established in 1989.  
By virtue of DSM ’s Articles of Association, 375,000,000 cumulative preference shares B can be issued. The listing prospectus 
of 1989 stated that if, without the approval of the Managing Board and Supervisory Board, either a bid is made for the 
ordinary shares or a significan t participation in ordinary shares is built up, or such an event is likely to occur, then these 
preference shares B may be issued, which shall have the same voting rights as the ordinary shares.  
Under an agreement entered into in 1999, and subsequently amended, between the DSM Preference Shares Foundation and DSM, the Foundation has the right to acquire such preference shares (call option) to a maximum corresponding to 100% of the capital issued in any form other than preference shares B, less one.  
The objective of the Foundation is to promote the interest of DSM, and the enterprise maintained by DSM and all parties connected therewith, whereby influences that would threaten the continuity, independence or identity, contrary to the aforementioned interests, are resisted to the maximum extent possible.  
The purpose of the agreement with the Foundation is, among other things, for the Foundation to allow DSM the opportunity to determine its position, for example with regard to a possible bidder for DSM shares or a party or parties tempting to obtain (de facto) control, to examine any plans in detail and, to the extent applicable, to look for (better) alternatives. Preference shares B will not be outstanding longer than necessary. As soon as there are no longer any  
reasons for the preference shares B to remain outstanding, the Managing Board will convene a General Meeting of Shareholders and recommend the cancellation of the preference shares B that are still outstanding.  
The Foundation acquired no preference shares  B in 20 20. 
The DSM Preference Shares Foundation is an independent legal entity within the meaning of article 5:71, first paragraph, under c of the Dutch Act on Financial Supervision (Wet op het financieel toezicht).  
On 31 December 20 20, the B oard of the F oundation was composed as follows:  
Gerard Kleisterlee, Chair  Cees Maas, Deputy Chair  Bas Kortmann  
 
 Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  285 Important dates  
Annual General Meeting of Shareholders  
The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders is to be held on 
Thursday , 6 May 20 21 at 14:00 hours CET.  
Important dates  
Publication of first -quarter Wednesday , 5 May 202 1 
Ex-dividend quotation  Monday, 10 May 202 1 
Publication of second -quarter Tuesday, 3 August 202 1 
Publication of third -quarter Tuesday, 2 November 202 1 Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  286 DSM figures: five -year summary 
All figures are including discontinued operations unless stated otherwise, see also Note 3  Change in the scope of the 
consolidation . 
Balance sheet  
x € million  2020  2019 2018 2017 2016 
Assets  
Intangible assets  4,455  3,515  3,090  3,058  3,188  
Property, plant and equipment  3,774  4,040  3,511 3,313 3,325  
Deferred tax assets  239 217 248 281 355 
Share in associates and joint ventures  93 155 205 227 586 
Derivatives  61 27 14 16 - 
Other financial assets  317 265 263 475 463 
Non-current assets  8,939  8,219  7,331  7,370  7,917  
Inventories  1,879  2,019  1,993  1,848  1,800  
Current receivables  1,488  1,698  1,738 1,690  1,653  
Derivatives  48 19 21 41 40 
Current investments  43 688 1,277 954 944 
Cash and cash equivalents  871 800 1,281 899 604 
Assets held for sale  1,096  - - - - 
Current assets  5,425  5,224  6,310  5,432  5,041  
Total assets  14,364  13,443  13,641  12,802  12,958  
. 
Equity and liabilities  
Shareholders' equity  7,399  7,731 7,782  6,962  6,072  
Non-controlling interests  88 104 33 103 108 
Equity  7,487  7,835  7,815  7,065  6,180  
Deferred tax liabilities  433 296 254 259 278 
Employee benefit liabilities  414 413 413 356 490 
Provisions  123 120 116 151 128 
Borrowings  3,479  2,464  2,272  2,551 2,552  
Derivatives  1 7 3 4 14 
Other non -current liabilities  163 145 197 188 158 
Non-current liabilities  4,613  3,445  3,255  3,509  3,620  
Employee benefits liabilities  42 43 46 39 40 
Provisions  61 48 37 53 54 
Borrowings  107 189 380 77 853 
Derivatives  13 18 51 20 239 
Current liabilities  1,787 1,865  2,057  2,039  1,972 
Liabilities held for sale  254 - - - - 
Current liabilities  2,264  2,163  2,571  2,228  3,158  
Total equity and liabilities  14,364  13,443  13,641  12,802  12,958  DSM figures: 5-y ear summary 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  287 Income statement  
x € million  2020  2019 2018 2017 2016 
Net sales  9,038  9,010  8,852¹  8,632  7,920  
Adjusted EBITDA2 1,650  1,684  1,532¹  1,445  1,262  
EBITDA  1,476  1,586  1,754 1,348  1,146 
Adjusted operating profit (EBIT)2 1,011 1,075  1,055¹  957 791 
Operating profit (EBIT)  736 954 1,245  846 657 
Financial income and expense  (67) (92) (101) (104) (133)
Income tax expense  (129) (152) (194) (115) (89)
Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures  (32) 54 129 1,154 194 
Net profit for the year  508 764 1,079  1,781  629 
Net profit attributable to non -controlling interests  2 6 2 12 8 
Net profit available to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V.  506 758 1,077  1,769  621 
Dividend on cumulative preference shares  (7) (8) (8) (8) (4)
Net profit available to holders of ordinary shares  499 750 1,069  1,761 617 
. 
Key figures and financial ratios  
Capital employed  10,560  9,311 8,181  7,766  7,889  
Capital expenditure:  
-Intangible assets and Property, plant and equipment 622 623 653 586 485 
-Acquisitions 1,579 585 50 264 16 
Disposals  46 44 335 1,546  87 
Depreciation, amortization and impairments  740 632 509 502 489 
Net debt  (2,577)  (1,144)  (113) (742) (2,070)  
Dividend  420 425 412 331 310 
. 
Workforce at 31 December, headcount  23,127  22,174  20,977  21,054  20,786  
Employee benefit costs (x € million)  1,848  1,811 1,753 1,768  1,752 
. 
Financial ratios2 
ROCE in %  10.3 12.0 13.3¹ 12.3 10.4 
Net sales / average capital employed  0.92 1.01 1.11¹ 1.11 1.04 
Current assets / current liabilities  2.40 2.42 2.45 2.44 1.58 
Equity / total assets  0.52 0.58 0.57 0.55 0.48 
Gearing (net debt / equity plus net debt)  0.26 0.13 0.01 0.10 0.25 
Adjusted EBIT / net sales in %  11.2 11.9 11.9¹ 11.1 10.0 
Net profit / average Shareholders' equity available to  
holders of ordinary shares in %  6.8 10.0 24.7 28.0 11.1 
Adjusted EBITDA / financial income and expense  24.6 18.3 15.2¹ 13.9 9.5 
1 2018 adjusted for the temporary vitamin effect for comparison reasons of €415 million in sales, €290 million in adjusted EBITDA and 
€290 million in adjusted operating profit, including associated ratios.  
2 In presenting and discussing DSM ’s financial position, operating results and cash flows, DSM uses certain Alternative performance 
measures (APMs) not defined by IFRS. These APMs are used because they are an important measure of DSM ’s business development 
and DSM ’s management performance. A full reconciliation of IFRS performance measures to the APMs is given in Note 2 Alternative 
performance measures . DSM figures: 5-y ear summary 
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  288 Information about ordinary DSM shares 
per ordinary share in €  2020  2019 2018 2017 2016 
Adjusted net profit  4.43 4.64 5.84 3.92 2.90 
Net profit  2.91 4.27 6.10 10.07  3.52 
Operating cash flow  8.67 7.84 7.89 5.65 5.79 
. 
Dividend:  2.40 2.40 2.30 1.85 1.75 
-Interim dividend 0.80 0.77 0.77 0.58 0.55 
-Final dividend 1.60 1.63 1.53 1.27 1.20 
. 
Pay-out including dividend on cumulative preference shares  
as % of Adjusted net profit  55 52 40 48 61 
Dividend yield (dividend as % of average price of an ordinary  
DSM share)  1.9 2.3 2.7 2.8 3.3 
. 
Share prices on Euronext Amsterdam (closing price):  
-Highest price 148.55  117.90  92.98  81.66  64.18  
-Lowest price 87.52  69.54  68.98  57.20  41.40  
-At 31 December 140.80  116.10  71.44  79.67  56.96  
. 
Number of ordinary shares outstanding (x 1,000):  
-At 31 December 172,219  172,449  175,651  174,643  175,002  
-Average 171,536  175,731  175,323  174,795  175,100  
. 
Daily trading volumes on Euronext Amsterdam:  
-Average 518 635 732 676 787 
-Lowest 64 75 130 238 152 
-Highest 1,900  2,242  2,617 2,110 2,554  Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  289 Explanation of some concepts and 
ratios 
GENERAL 
Biosciences1 
B
iosciences are any o f the sc iences that d eal w ith living o rganisms. 
Brighter Living Solutions 
Br
ighter L iving S olutions ( BLS) is DSM’s p rogram f or th e d evelopment of s u stainable, i nnovative s olutions w ith 
environmental a nd/or s ocial benefits, c r eating s hared v alue f or ou r stakeholders. Br i ghter L iving S olutions ar e products, 
s
ervices a nd technologies t hat, co nsidered o ver their l i fe cycle, o ffer a s uperior en vironmental i mpact ( ECO+) a nd/or a 
superior s ocial i mpact ( People+) w hen co mpared t o the mainstream a lternative for t h e same application. Th e impact o f  
Brighter L iving S olutions ca n be realized at an y stage of the product l ife cycle, f rom r aw materials t hrough t he 
manufacturing p r ocess t o potential r e-u se and en d-of-l ife d isposal.  
Within the p rogram, D S M c onducts an an nual ‘ Product C at egory S ustainability R eview’ f or all p r oduct c ategories. T his 
review i dentifies e nvironmental an d soc ial i mpact d ifferentiators an d risks f or each of our p roduct c ategories an d confirms 
the mainstream r eference solution. To s ubstantiate the identified d ifferentiators D SM u ses co mparative Life Cycle 
Assessments (LCAs ) and/or ex pert o pinions t o determine whether a p r oduct h as a s uperior p erformance and ca n be 
id
entified as a Brighter Living Solution. 
Superior en vironmental  and/or social  impact : Eco+ a nd People+ 
E
CO+ q ualifications ar e made b ased on a comparative E n vironmental L CA using ISO-standards t o evaluate e nvironmental 
footprint, or d ocumented e xpert op inion b y business m anagers an d in ternal s ustainability e xperts.  
The P eople+ q ualifications ar e  made b ased on our People LCA m ethodology, w hich h as been d eveloped i n l ine w ith 
industry -leading i nitiatives s uch a s the Roundtable for Product S ocial M etrics, o r  an exp ert o pinion. Th e People LCA 
method h elps t o identify s ocial i mpacts o f pr oducts o n th e dimensions h ea lth, co mfort a nd w el l-being, working c onditions, 
a
nd community d evelopment. 
More i n formation and d efinitions c an be found on the company website . 
FFP 
E
N 149 is a European s tandard of t esting a n d m arking r equirements f o r filtering m asks co vering the n ose, mouth and c hi n 
and may have inhalation and/or exhalation valves. This standard defines three  classes of such particle half masks, called 
FFP1,
 FFP2 and FFP3, (FFP = Filtering F ace Piece) according to their filtering efficiency.2 
Integrated R eporting < IR > F ramework – Value Creation m o del 
The Value Creation diagram i s  based o n the International In tegrated R eporting C ouncil's Integrated R ep orting < IR> 
f
ramework and g i ves an ov erview of h ow w e create v alue f or our stakeholders b ased on s i x c apital i nputs . 
Human capital (People)  
We employ skilled a n d talented p eople from d i verse backgrounds. W e strive to p r ovide employees w i th a s afe and i nspiring 
workplace as w ell as with the tools a nd tr aining t hey n eed t o  be effective and t o develop t heir a bilities. W e reward 
employees w i th co mpetitive benefit p a ckages. 
1 Source: The Free Dictionary  
2 Source: Wikipedia   Explanation of some concepts and ratios  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  290  Societal & relationship capita l (People)  
We engage with various stakeholders to ensure close alignment between our aims and societal needs. We generate value 
for stakeholders outside our direct value chains of employees, suppliers, customers and end -users; these include 
employees’ families, governments, local communities and civil society.  
Natural capital  (Planet)  
We recognize that the world is an interconnected system of resources. For us, this represents a responsibility and a 
business opportunity. We aim to improve the environmental impact of our supply chain, operations and products and 
services, while developing innovative solutions that deliver sustainability benefits to customers and beyond.  
Financial capital  (Profit)  
Providers of c apital – shareholders and  bondholders, banks and  the financial markets – supply funds that we use  in our 
business to create  value, driving growth and  delivering sustainable  returns.  
Intellectual capital  (Profit)  
We manufacture and  distribute high -quality  products and services  safely, efficiently and  responsibly , and strive to  develop 
valuable,  collaborative and  long-term relationships  with customers and suppliers. We pursue  open innovation, connecting 
and collaborating with  partners and investing in start -ups. 
Manufactured capital  (Profit)  
We have unique  competences in life sciences and materials  sciences and connect  these to deliver innovative solutions that 
nourish, protect and improve performance  
PEOPLE 
Equal pay and gender pay gap  
Equal pay is a legal requirement for men and women to be paid the same for performing the same or similar work or work that has been rated as being of equal value (by job evaluation). The gender pay gap zooms in on the difference between what men typically earn overall in an organization compared to women, irrespective of their role or seniority.  
Eubiotics 
The general term ‘Eubiotics’ , is related to the Greek term ‘ Eubiosis’ and relates to feed ingredients that support an optimal 
balance of microbiota in the gastrointestinal tract of livestock animals. They promote efficient gut performance so as to 
produce well -nourished animals that get the most from their feed, while at the same time sustaining their health and 
welfare and protecting the environment.  
Frequency Index (FI) 
The Frequency Index is a way to measure safety performance. The number of accidents of a particular category per 100 
employees per year.  
Inclusion Index  
The Inclusion Index is a subset of items in the Employee Engagement (Pulse) Survey to specifically measure Inclusion. Inclusion is: “ A working environment where all employees are a full and equal member of a team; where  diverse 
perspectives are valued, and investment is made in their development; where people are respected and able to contribute as they a re and not having to conform; where they can reach their potential, and where they can speak up without fear of 
retribution.” 
Lives Reached  
Lives Reached is a measure of consumers already reached through consumer products of third parties containing DSM 
products and solutions. This measure addresses key end -markets representing more than 25% of DSM ’s total sales. These 
end-markets cover our business segments — Nutrition, Materials and Innovation Center.  
The number of Lives Reached is calculated for each market separately and then aggregated. As a business -to-business 
company, our products reach end -consumers via third parties, so calculations per market are performed at global level. Explanation of some concepts and ratios  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  291  Consumer touch points are assumed to be unrelated, and overlap is eliminat ed using statistical methods (De Morgan ’s Law 
and Probability Theory — Independence). The actual overlap may be larger or smaller than calculated based on this 
assumption.  
Key assumptions are used to perform these calculations and include DSM ’s market shar e, total consumer markets, share of 
wallet and consumer consumption behavior. These assumptions are made based on external market data where available, 
supplemented with market and business intelligence insights.  
For more information on Lives Reached, see the company website . 
Living wage  
The remuneration received for a standard working time by an employee in a particular place sufficient to afford a decent 
standard of living for the employee and his/her family. Elements of a decent standard of living include food, water, housing, education, health care, transport, clothing, and other essential needs, including provision for une xpected events.  
LWC rate DSM -own 
The Lost Workday Case (LWC)  rate DSM -own is the number of lost workday cases per 100 DSM employees in the past 12 
months: LWC  rate = 100 * (number of LWCs (past 12 months) / average effective manpower (past 12 months)).  
Occupational Health Case  
This refers to any abnormal condition or disorder requiring medical treatment — other than one resulting directly from an 
accident — caused by, or mainly caused by, repeated exposure to work -related factors.  
PSI rate  
The PSI rate is the number of Process Safety Incidents per 100 DSM employees and contractor employees in the past 12 
months: PSI rate = 100 * (number of PSIs (past 12 months) / average effective manpower including contractor employees (past 12 months)).  
REC rate DSM -all 
The REC  rate DSM-all is the number of recordable injuries per 100 DSM employees and contractor employees in the past 12 
months: REC  rate = 100 * (number of RECs (past 12 months) / average effective manpower including contractor employees 
(past 1 2 months)).  
Safety, Health and Environment (SHE)  
DSM’s policy is to maintain business activities and produce products that do not adversely affect safety or health, and that 
fit with the concept of sustainable development. The company does this by setting the following objectives: to provide an injury -free and incident -free workplace; to prevent all work -related disabilities or health problems; to control and 
minimize the risks associated with DSM ’s products for their whole life cycle and to choose producti on processes and 
products such that the use of raw materials and energy is minimized; to evaluate and improve DSM ’s practices, processes 
and products continuously in order to make them safe and acceptable to its employees, the customers, the public and the environment.  
United Nations Global Compact  
A strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti -corru ption.  
United Nations ’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights  
On 10 December 1948, the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted and proclaimed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Following this historic act, the Assembly called upon all Member countries to publicize the text of the Declaration and “ to cause it to be disseminated, displayed, read and expounded principally in schools and other 
educational institutions, without distinction based on the political status of countries or territories. ” Explanation of some concepts and ratios  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  292  PLANET  
Biofuel  
A fuel which is derived from renewable organic resources, as distinct from one which is derived from non -renewable 
resources such as crude oil and natural gas.  
Carbon footprint  
The total set of direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions expressed as CO 2eq. 
Carbon price 
The price that is paid to emit one ton CO 2eq into the atmosphere. DSM implements an internal carbon price of €50/t  CO2eq. 
Circular economy  
Circular economy refers to an economy that is restorative and in which materials flows are of two types: biological 
nutrients, designed to re -enter the biosphere safely, and technical nutrients, which are designed to circulate at high quality 
without entering the biosphere throughout their entire lifecycle.  
CO2 
Carbon dioxide, a gas that naturally occurs in the atmosphere. It is part of the natural carbon cycle through photosynthesis 
and respiration. It is also generated as a by -product of combustion. Carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas.  
Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD)  
COD is an indicator of the degree of pollution of waste water by organic substances.  
Eco-efficiency  
Eco-efficiency is a concept (created in 1992 by the WBCSD) that refers to the creation of more goods and services while 
using less resources and creating less waste and pollution throughout their entire life cycle. In the context of DSM ’s SHE 
targets, eco -efficiency relates specifically to the reduction of emissions and energy and water consumption, relative to the 
production volumes of DSM ’s plants.  
Energy  
Prima ry energy is energy that has not yet been subjected to a human engineered conversion process. It is the energy 
contained in unprocessed fuels.  
Final (consumed) energy is the energy that is consumed by end -users. The difference between primary energy and fi nal 
consumed energy is caused by the conversion process between the two as well as any transmission losses.  
Essential for life  
Essential for life refers to products that have a proven beneficial nutritional  or pharmaceutical effect when used at the 
officia lly recommended dose.  
Greenhouse gas emissions (GHG)  
Scope 1: Direct GHG emissions  
Direct GHG emissions occur from sources that are owned or controlled by the company (i.e., emissions from combustion in owned or controlled boilers, furnaces, vehicles, etc. ). 
Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions  
Indirect GHG emissions relate to the generation of purchased energy (i.e., electricity, heat or cooling) consumed by the company. Purchased energy is defined as energy that is purchased or otherwise brought into the organ izational boundary 
of the company. Scope 2 emissions physically occur at the facility where the energy is generated.  
Scope 3: Value chain emissions  
Scope 3 emissions are all indirect emissions (not included in scope 2) that occur in the value chain of the reporting company, including both upstream and downstream emissions.  Explanation of some concepts and ratios  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  293  Location -based emissions  
Reflects the average GHG emissions intensity of grids on which electricity consumption occurs (using mostly national grid -
average emission factor data). Corresponding emission factor: in most cases, the country emission factor.  
Market -based emissions  
Reflects GHG emissions from electricity supplies that companies have purposely chosen (or their lack of choice) and 
contracted. Corresponding emission factors:  
- Supplier specific emission factor (provided by the supplier)  
- Residual emission factor (country -based grid factor, corrected for allocated purchased electricity from renewable 
resources)  
Greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) efficiency improvement  
The GHGE efficiency improvement is the amount of GHG emissions per unit of output (specific emissions) in a given year compared to the specific emissions in the prior year. GHGE efficiency improvements are one of the ratios in the Long -Term 
Incentive part of the Managing Board remuneration and relate to a three- year period.  
GRI 
The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) has developed Sustainability Reporting Guidelines that strive to increase the transparency and accountability of economic, environmental, and social performance. The GRI was established in 1997 in partnership with the UN Environment Programme. It is an int ernational, multi -stakeholder and independent institution 
whose mission is to develop and disseminate globally applicable Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. These Guidelines are for voluntary use by organizations for reporting on the economic, environmen tal, and social dimensions of their activities, 
products and services.  
Guarantee of origin (GO)  
A guarantee of origin is defined in EU Directive 2009/28/EC as “an electronic document which has the sole function of providing proof to a final customer that a given share or quantity of energy was produced from renewable sources as 
required by Article 3(6) of Directive 2003/54/EC .” The requirements of a GO are explained in Article 15 of the same Directive.  
Levelized Cost of Energy (LCOE)  
LCOE is a figure used t o compare the average cost of energy coming from different sources. It measures the cost of energy 
production over the lifetime of an asset like a photovoltaic panel.  
Loss of Primary Containment (LOPC)  
Loss of Primary Containment is an unplanned or uncontrolled release of material from the container that is in direct contact with the material.  
Net-zero emissions  
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change states: “Net-zero emissions are achieved when anthropogenic emissions 
of greenhouse gases to the atmosphere are balanced by anthropogenic removals over a specified period. Where multiple greenhouse gases are involved, the quantification of net zero emissions depends on the climate metric chosen to compare emissions of different gases (such as globa l warming potential, global temperature change potential, and others, as well as 
the chosen time horizon) ”. 
NO
x 
Nitrogen oxides. These gases are released mainly during combustion and cause acidification.  
Renewable resource  
A natural resource which is replenished by natural processes at a rate comparable to, or faster than, its rate of consumption by humans or other users. The term covers perpetual resources such as solar radiation, tides, winds and hydroelectricity as well as fuels derived from organic matt er (bio -based fuels).  
SO
2 
Sulfur dioxide. This gas is formed during the combustion of fossil fuels and causes acidification.  Explanation of some concepts and ratios  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  294  VOC 
Volatile organic compounds. The term covers a wide range of chemical compounds, such as organic solvents, some of 
which can be harmful.  
Water use and water consumption  
Water use includes water used for ‘ once- through  cooling ’ that is returned to the original water source after use. Water 
consumption is the portion of water used that is not returned to the original water source after being withdrawn.  
PROFIT  
General  
In calculating financial profitability ratios, use is made of the average of the opening and closing values of balance sheet items in the year under review.  
The financial indicators per ordinary share are calculated on the basis of the average number of ordinary shares outstanding (average daily number). In calculating Shareholders ’ equity per ordinary share, however, the number of shares 
outstanding at year- end is used.  
In calculating the figures per ordin ary share and the ‘ net profit as a percentage of average Shareholders ’ equity available 
to holders of ordinary shares ’, the amounts available to the holders of cumulative preference shares are deducted from 
the profits and from Shareholders ’ equity.  
Adjust ed net operating free cash flow  
The cash flow from operating activities, corrected for the cash flow of the APM adjustments, minus the cash flow of capital expenditures and drawing rights.  
Capital employed  
The total of the carrying amount of intangible ass ets and property, plant and equipment, inventories, trade receivables and 
other receivables, less trade payables, other current liabilities , investment grants and customer funding . 
Capital expenditure  
This includes all investments in intangible assets and property, plant and equipment.  
Disposals  
This includes the disposal of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment as well as the disposal of participating interests and other securities.  
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization  (EBITDA)  
EBITDA is the sum of operating profit plus depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA is the EBITDA adjusted for material items of profit or loss coming from acquisitions/divestments, restructuring and other circumstances that management deem  it necessary to adjust in order to provide clear  reporting on the development of the business.  
Earnings per ordinary share  
Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. minus dividend on cumulative preference shares, divided by the ave rage number of ordinary shares outstanding.  
High-growth economies  
High-growth economies relate to the following regions: Latin America, Middle East, Asia (excluding Japan) and Eastern 
Europe.  
Innovation sales  
Innovation sales are defined as sales from products and applications that have been introduced in the last five years.  Explanation of some concepts and ratios  
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  295  Net debt  
Net debt is the total of current and non -current borrowings less cash and cash equivalents, current investments and the 
net position of derivatives.  
Operating working capi tal 
The total of inventories and trade receivables, less trade payables.  See also Working capital.  
Organic sales growth  
Organic sales growth is the total impact of volume and price/mix. Impact of acquisitions and divestments as well as 
currency impact are excluded.  
Return on capital employed (ROCE)  
Adjusted operating profit from continuing operations as a percentage of average capital employed.  
Temporary vitamin effect  
DSM’s best estimate of the effect on sales and Adjusted EBITDA of the exceptional supply disruptions in the industry that 
started toward the end of 2017 and ended in the third quarter of 2018, including derived measurements.  
Total shareholder return (TSR) 
Total shareholder return is capital gain plus dividend paid.  
Underlyin g business 
Sales and Adjusted EBITDA (including derived measurements), corrected for DSM ’s best estimate of the temporary vitamin 
effect.  
Working capital  
The total of inventories and current receivables, less current payables.  See also Operating working capital.  
 
   
Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2020  296  List of abbreviations  
ADR American Depositary Receipts  IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards  
AFM The Dutch Authority for the Financial Markets  ILO International Labour Organisation  
API Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients  IP Intellectual Property  
APM Alternative performance measures  LCA Life Cycle Assessment  
CDP The new name for the Carbon Disclosure Project  LoR Letter of Representation  
CE Conformitè Europeenne  LTI Long -Term Incentive  
Cefic  Conseil Européen des Fédérations de l'Industrie  LWC Lost Workday Case  
 Chimique (European Chemical Industry Council)  NCI Non-controlling interests  
CGU Cash Generating Unit  NGO Non-Governmental Organization  
COA Corporate Operational Audit department  NPS Net Promoter Score  
CoBC  Code of Business Conduct  OCI Other Comprehensive Income  
COD Chemical Oxygen Demand  OECD  Organisation for Economic Co -operation and  
CPLC Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition   Development  
CRA Corporate Risk Assessment  PDN Stichting Pensioenfonds DSM Nederland  
CRP Corporate Research Program  PPA Purchase Price Allocation; also Power Purchase  
CSD Corporate Strategy Dialogue   Agreement  
CSR Corporate Social Responsibility  PPE Personal Protective Equipment; also Property, Plant  
DHA Docosahexaenoic Acid   and Equipment  
DNP DSM Nutritional Products  PRA Process Risk Assessment; also Personal Protective  
DSGC  Dutch Sustainable Growth Coalition   Equipment  
DSP DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals  PSI Process Safety Incident  
EBA Emerging Business Area  PV Photovoltaic  
EBIT Earnings Before Interest and Taxes (Operating  Profit)  R&D Research & Development  
EBITDA  Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and  REACH  Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Chemicals  
 Amortization   Restriction  of Chemicals  
EEI Energy Efficiency Improvement  ROCE  Return on Capital Employed  
EPA Eicosapentaenoic Acid  SDG Sustainable Development Goal  
EPS Earnings per share  SHE Safety, Health and Environment  
EVP Executive Vice President  SHIBOR  Shanghai Interbank Offered Rate  
FIFO First in, first out  SPP Sustainable Procurement Program  
FTE Full-time equivalent  STI Short -Term Incentive  
FVTPL  Fair value through profit and loss  SUN Scaling Up Nutrition Movement  
FVOCI  Fair value other comprehensive income  TCFD  Taskforce on Climate -related Financial Disclosures  
GHG Greenhouse gas  TSR Total Shareholder Return  
GHGE  Greenhouse gas emissions  UHMWPE  Ultra -high-molecular -weight polyethylene  
GMO Genetically Modified Organisms  UN United Nations  
GRI Global Reporting Initiative  VOC Volatile Organic Compound  
HMPE  High modulus polyethylene  WBCSD  World Business Council for Sustainable  
IAS International Accounting Standards   Development  
IASB International Accounting Standards Board  WEF World Economic Forum  
ICF Internal Control Framework  WFP United Nations World Food Programme  
IFRIC  International Financial Reporting Interpretation    
 Committee    
 
 https://annualreport.dsm.com/ar2020/
©2021 Royal DSM All rights reserved
