Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 20191
Lam R esearch 
Corporat e Social  
Responsibility 
Report 2019Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 20192 Contents
Contents
Letter from Our CEO  3
Lam Responds to COVID-19 4
Business and Governance  5
Products and Customers  15
 
Our Workplace   21
Reponsible Supply Chain  32 
Sustainable Operations  36
Our Communities   44
Performance Summary  48
About this Report   49
GRI Index    50
References    56Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 20193
Letter from Our CEO
Our world has changed dramatically due to COVID-19. Every 
community has been impacted by the spread of the virus, and the 
magnitude of these impacts has challenged every aspect of our 
lives – health care, school systems, and economies of every size. 
The tragic loss of life and livelihoods has called for a compassionate 
and collective response. I have been inspired by the courage and 
dedication of essential workers on the frontlines, along with so many 
people making every effort to help in their own, unique way.
Lam responded swiftly to support our employees and their families 
and adapt to new ways of working while delivering on our customer 
commitments. Our $25 million COVID-19 relief and recovery fund 
provides short-term assistance and longer-term recovery for our 
employees and our communities, including $500,000 to provide aid 
to Black communities in the U.S. that have been disproportionately 
impacted by the virus. I am especially proud of the way Lam 
employees have come together to support those in need in 
locations where we live and work.
During this global pandemic, we have witnessed greater social 
injustice in our society and the need to do better. We must work toward a world that both acknowledges and values the dignity and 
humanity inherent in each, and every one of us. Lam is taking
action and has pledged $500,000 of additional grant funding for 
initiatives to fight social injustice in our communities.  
It is within this context that I present Lam’s 6th annual corporate 
social responsibility (CSR) report, which underscores our 
commitment to make a positive impact worldwide. In 2019, Lam 
achieved our target to meet the 5-year energy and climate goals we 
set in 2015. Additionally, we made progress on a new set of material 
topics, mapped for the first time to the United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals. We strategically enhanced our CSR program, 
led by leadership and key subject matter experts, with more robust 
governance practices and commitments across the following six 
program areas:
 • Business and Governance: We invest in advancing the   
  industry and further integrating CSR principles into our  
  daily operations.
 • Products and Customers: We develop innovative products   
  and solutions that meet or exceed safety requirements and 
  incorporate energy efficiency features that benefit our 
  customers and the environment.
 • Our Workplace: We recognize that employees are at the 
  heart of our company’s success. Employee engagement, 
  inclusion and diversity, professional development, recognition,  
  safety, and wellness are areas we focus on to make Lam a great 
  place to work. 
 • Sustainable Operations: We seek to responsibly manage our 
  environmental impact through investments in energy 
  efficiency, reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, water 
  conservation, and waste reduction.
 • Responsible Supply Chain: We hold our suppliers to the same 
  Core Values to which we hold ourselves and work closely 
  with our suppliers to address a wide range of issues, including 
  human rights, supplier diversity, environmental impact, and 
  mineral sourcing.
 • Our Communities: We support our communities through our 
  global philanthropy and volunteerism programs that seek to  
  engage our employees and improve education and quality of  
  life in our communities. Our commitments as a socially responsible corporate citizen are 
being recognized. At the local level, we have received awards for 
being good stewards of our environment and for bringing positive 
change to our communities. At the global level we have earned our 
position on lists of the world’s most sustainable and most admired 
companies.   
We share a vision with our employees, customers, suppliers, 
and partners for a more sustainable future in a world where all 
communities may thrive. It’s what drives our actions and our 
commitment to act accordingly.
 
 
Tim Archer
President and Chief Executive Officer
Letter from Our CEO
Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 20194
Lam Responds to COVID-19 
Throughout this unprecedented pandemic, our focus and priority 
has remained on the health, safety, and well-being of our employees 
while continuing to meet our customer commitments. We have 
provided a $25 million COVID-19 relief and recovery fund to support 
our employees and communities, as well as our local hospitals and 
medical care providers.
 
 Employee support – We have implemented procedures 
 consistent with medical guidelines and best practices to 
 safeguard the health and safety of our onsite workers while 
 supporting our employees that can work remotely. Regular and 
 consistent communication with employees, CEO Q&A sessions, 
 and training have been critical to ensure ongoing engagement, 
 a sense of community, and security. A portion of the relief and 
 recovery fund was given to employees to support their personal 
 needs or donate to a friend or family member, local business, 
 or non-profit organization. We are also offering pay continuity, 
 childcare benefits and other employee assistance programs to 
 those experiencing disruptions due to the pandemic.  
 Community care – Supporting our communities worldwide is 
 a core part of who Lam is as a company. As part of the COVID-19 
 relief and recovery efforts, we have dedicated funds to our 
 communities for short-term assistance and longer-term recovery. 
 Grant funding was directed to address immediate needs such 
 as food security, shelter resources, and other programs for those 
 facing pandemic-related hardship.  We also recognize that the 
 economic impact of the pandemic will still be felt long after the 
 health crisis has ended and therefore, we expect our campaign 
 aid to transition into longer-term relief efforts. The long-term 
 recovery funds include a commitment of $500,000 to aid Black 
 communities that have been more significantly impacted than 
 others during the pandemic. 
 Also, as part of our community relief campaign, we have donated 
 funds for supplies of masks and other personal protective 
 equipment (PPE) to hospitals, healthcare and essential personnel. 
 Our COVID-19 relief initiative also includes an employee 2-for-1 
 matching gift campaign for eligible relief programs all over 
 the world. 
 Customer support – Our Global Customer Operations team 
 works closely with customers to understand their needs and 
 provide best-in-class service and support while staying in  compliance with government restrictions.  During the pandemic, 
 most fabs continued to operate, and we have partnered with 
 customers worldwide to share and execute best practices for 
 health and safety protocols. Where on-site interactions have been 
 limited due to travel restrictions, we have delivered high quality 
 remote services, support, and training to our customers    
 worldwide.
$25M COVID-19 Relief 
and Recovery Fund
Short-term 
community 
assistance
Global  
non-profit
grantsSupport
PPE
DonationsCommunity 
recovery and 
employee 
Double Match 
Campaign
Employee 
support 
payment 
for 90% of 
employeesAdditional 
employee 
support through 
pay continuity 
and other 
programsDistribution of the 
COVID-19 Relief and 
Recovery Fund
Lam Responds to COVID-19
“Our employees consistently role 
model our Core Values and exemplify 
the very best of Lam’s culture. And our 
employees have responded to this crisis 
with genuine care for each other, our 
communities, and our customers. It is 
important that as a company and as 
individuals we act with compassion in 
this time of global need.” 
– Tim Archer, Chief Executive OfficerLam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 20195
Business and Governance Business and Governance
Our Business: Empowering Progress
Lam Research is a world-leading wafer fabrication equipment manufacturer 
and services provider to the semiconductor industry. Our innovative, 
cutting-edge products and services enable our customers, the world’s 
leading semiconductor companies, to build smaller, faster, and better-
performing electronic devices. Nearly every advanced chip is built with 
Lam technology. As our customers push the limits of what’s possible, we 
are innovating beyond the devices of today to support the silicon roadmap 
of tomorrow. Our global presence, accomplished management team, 
experienced Board of Directors, highly talented employees, significant 
investment in research and development (R&D), and commitment to our 
Core Values position us for continued success in the future.
This future must be sustainable. We believe that making corporate 
responsibility a part of how we do business will lead to better results, 
advance the industry, and empower progress. Our management approach 
continues to emphasize financial performance while further integrating 
corporate social responsibility (CSR) principles into day-to-day 
operations. This includes regularly assessing material environmental, social, 
and governance (ESG) topics, setting rigorous CSR goals, and increasing 
leadership oversight of our ESG efforts.
2019 Key Accomplishments
  • Selected five of the United Nations’ (UN) Sustainable Development 
   Goals (SDGs) as a focus for our CSR program based on our   
   materiality assessment
  • Strengthened our Ethics and Compliance charter and increased 
   resources for the Ethics and Compliance program
  • Generated revenue of over $9.6 billion, representing a five-year   
   compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 15.9% and achieved the 
   highest net income per diluted share in the company’s history at 
   $13.70 in fiscal year 2019
 
All data in this report are based on calendar year except where notedLam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 20196
2019 Awards and Recognition
Newsweek America’s Most Responsible Companies 2020
Barron’s 100 Most Sustainable Companies
American Heart Association Silver Recognition
Forbes Best Mid-Size Employers 
Fortune World’s Most Admired Companies
Fortune 500 List
Oregon Employer’s Support of the Guard and Reserve Award
Oregon Clean Water Service’s Environmental Excellence Award
San Francisco Times Top 100 Philanthropists
Singapore Children’s Society Gold Award
Singapore Health Promotion Board Award
Washington County Green Business Award
YWCA Tribute to Women AwardBusiness and GovernanceLam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 20197 Business and Governance
Achievement Honesty 
and IntegrityInnovation and  
Continuous 
Improvement
Mutual Trust  
and RespectOpen 
CommunicationOwnership  
and 
Accountability
Teamwork Think:  
Customer, 
Company,  
Individual
Our Values
Our culture is built on our Core Values. These values 
guide our decisions in every aspect of our business – 
determining what we do, as well as how we do it. Our Core 
Values shape the way we define success as we create 
solutions for our customers; invest in our employees; 
incorporate environmental, social, and economic 
responsibility across our business; give back to our 
communities; and deliver value to our stockholders.
China 
22%
Europe 
4%
Japan 
20% Korea 
23%Southeast Asia 
6%Taiwan 
17%United States
8%Revenue by Region FY’ 19Fiscal Year Highlights
Despite a year-over-year decline in the wafer fabrication equipment market, Lam delivered solid financial performance 
in fiscal year 2019 with revenue of over $9.6 billion, representing a five-year compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 
approximately 16% and net income per diluted share of $13.70, which was a 4% increase over fiscal year 2018. Lam’s 
performance in 2019 within a challenging business environment is a testament to Lam’s high-quality operational execution and 
strong commitment to deliver best-in-class products and services to customers, as well as the exceptional work done by our 
employees throughout the company. These financials are presented in conformity with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles, and details of our financials can be found at http://investor.lamresearch.com. 
FY’ 2017 FY’ 2018 FY’ 2019 % Change  
(FY ‘19/FY ‘18)
(in thousands except per share data and percentages)
Revenue  $8,013,620  $11,076,998  $9,653,559 -12.9%
Gross margin  $3,603,359  $5,165,032  $4,358,459 -15.6%
Gross margin as a percent of total revenue 45.0% 46.6% 45.1% -3.2%
Total operating expenses  $1,701,227  $1,951,733  $1,893,727 -3.0%
R&D  $1,033,742  $1,189,514  $1,191,320 0.2%
R&D as a percent of operating expenses 60.8% 60.9% 62.9% 3.3%
Net Income  $1,697,763  $2,380,681  $2,191,430 -7.9%
Net income per diluted share  $9.24  $13.17  $13.70 4.0%Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 20198 Business and Governance
United States
58%
Headquarters
Fremont, CA10,749 Total Employees in Ofﬁces World-Wide
China
6%
Japan
4%
Taiwan
7%Korea
8%Europe
8%Southeast Asia and India
9%Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 20199
Corporate Social Responsibility
An important part of advancing the industry and empowering 
progress is being a socially responsible company. We invest in 
environmental, social, and economic responsibility across our 
business and incorporate CSR best practices such as robust 
stakeholder engagement, regular materiality assessments, and 
alignment with the SDGs. We strive to create positive impacts for 
our stakeholders by:
 • Providing innovative, best-in-class solutions for our customers
 • Fostering the success and well-being of our employees
 • Investing in and supporting our communities
 • Building collaborative partnerships with our suppliers
 • Delivering long-term value to our stockholders
We believe it is important to integrate CSR across the business. 
We achieve this through our cross functional CSR Leadership 
Team, which proposes CSR goals, develops strategy, and embeds 
CSR in our operations. Sponsored by the corporate vice president 
of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications and led by 
a dedicated CSR manager, the CSR Team is made up of leaders 
from multiple departments and regions. Goals and objectives are 
approved by senior leadership, including the CEO. We also meet 
with our Board of Directors to discuss CSR strategy, gain alignment 
on plans and goals, and report on progress.
In 2015, Lam joined nearly two hundred companies to sign President 
Obama’s American Business Act on Climate Pledge and set five-
year goals to address climate and energy challenges. In this CSR 
report, we discuss our progress on those goals. As part of our 
commitment to continual responsible growth and innovation, we 
are setting 2025 energy and climate goals that will lead us into a 
sustainable future.Business and Governance
Global 
Customer 
OperationsGlobal 
Human Resources 
(HR)
Global 
Supplier 
Management
Community 
RelationsProduct 
MarketingGlobal 
QualityInvestor 
RelationsTravel and 
Employee 
Services
Global 
Workplace 
Solutions
Global
Environmental 
Health 
and SafetyCorporate 
CommunicationsThe Ofﬁce 
of the Chief 
Technology 
Ofﬁcer 
(OCTO)Legal
CSR 
Leadership 
Team Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201910 Business and Governance 
Business and Governance
Integrate CSR into our business operations;  
foster ownership and accountability; focus on select
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
Our Communities
Be a responsible corporate citizen with employee-
driven programs focused on education and
societal needs
Sustainable Operations
Minimize our environmental impact
through investments in energy, water, waste, and
greenhouse gas emissions reductionsProducts and Customers
Innovate with CSR in mind; be a partner of choice
for supporting our customers’ CSR goals; design
for environment principles
Our Workplace
Build an inclusive and engaging workplace while
achieving top performance in health and safety
Responsible Supply Chain
Ensure an ethical and responsible business
ecosystem focused on human rights and
environmentCorporate Social Responsibility Strategy at Lam
Our CSR strategy is composed of six key pillars that are derived from our materiality assessment.  
This framework focuses our attention on our most important topics and pressing challenges in the world  
while helping us to deliver value to our stakeholders  Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201911
Commitment to Sustainable Development
The United Nations’ SDGs provide a blueprint for a more sustainable future for all. Lam recognizes the 
importance of the roles that we, and other businesses, governments, and non-profit organizations, have 
in turning this blueprint into reality. As part of our commitment to sustainable, inclusive, and global 
progress, we are focused on five SDGs that are most material to our business activities. These SDGs, 
which help to guide our short-term and long-term CSR goals, are:
• Good health and well-being
• Quality education
• Decent work and economic growth
• Reduced inequality
• Climate actionMaterial Topics
To ensure the salience of our CSR strategy, we conduct a materiality assessment every three to five 
years, or when notable shifts happen in our business. In 2018, we conducted a materiality assessment 
in accordance with both the Sustainable Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI). As part of the assessment process, we reviewed important topics and risks published in 
our public financial filings, consulted with senior management and key internal and external stakeholders,
and benchmarked our CSR program according to data provided by third-party ratings organizations. This 
assessment identified 13 priority topics. We consolidated the priority topics into six categories, which 
inform our key strategies and overall CSR framework. We use this framework to drive our CSR programs, 
set our goals, and guide our disclosuresBusiness and Governance
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
In September 2015, 193 member States of the United Nations adopted 17 new Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to 
make our world more prosperous, inclusive, sustainable and resilient. Lam recognizes the importance of these goals and 
the role businesses play in achieving them. Lam is committed to aligning our programs and initiatives and do our part 
towards achieving these global goals.
Category Material Topics Sustainable Development Goals
Business and Governance Leadership 
participation in ESG
Products and Customers Regulatory compliance 
and emerging 
regulations
Product safety
Product compliance
New product pipeline
Our Workplace Employee wellness 
and professional 
growth  
Health and safety 
Inclusion and diversity
Responsible Supply Chain Supplier screening and 
managing negative 
impacts within the 
supply chain
Sustainable Operations Energy efficiency  
Waste and recycling  
Greenhouse gas 
emissions
Our Communities Community 
engagement and 
charitable giving
Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201912
Stakeholder Engagement
We approach engagement with our key stakeholders in a spirit of collaboration and trust. 
All perspectives are valuable and offer important insight. We regularly engage with our 
stakeholders, through formal and informal channels, to seek their feedback on CSR issues, 
and consider their perspectives when developing and managing our CSR objectives.
Employees
Lam solicits employee 
feedback through in-person 
and online employee forums, 
engagement sessions, 
all-employee meetings, pulse 
surveys, conversations with 
managers, and our HR 
Support and Employee 
Relations programs.
Customers
Lam thoughtfully collaborates 
with customers to identify 
their emerging business 
needs. These needs guide 
Lam’s product and service 
delivery objectives, research 
and development efforts, 
and manufacturing plans.Policymakers
Lam periodically interacts 
with policy makers and 
community leaders to 
discuss emerging trends in 
legislative, regulatory, and 
community matters.Community
Lam actively partners with 
non-proﬁt organizations and 
community leaders to create 
positive impact in places 
where we operate. Suppliers
Lam collaborates with 
suppliers to meet customer 
needs and create an ethical 
supply chain  by developing 
social and environmental 
requirements and processes. Stockholders
Lam proactively seeks 
opportunities to engage with 
stockholders individually to 
understand their views on 
ESG topics. We meet with 
investors to gather input and 
exchange ideas via investor 
conferences, earnings calls, 
meetings, correspondence, 
and voting on proposals 
presented at our stockholder 
meetings.Industry 
Organizations
Lam is a member of multiple 
industry organizations, so we 
can collaborate with our 
peers on topics of mutual 
importance. We are active 
participants in several groups 
that discuss and develop 
best practices to support the 
sustainable growth of our 
industry. Business and GovernanceLam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201913
Ethics and Compliance
Lam is committed to conducting business with the highest integrity, 
in alignment with our Core Values, and in accordance with the 
applicable laws and regulations in the locations where we operate. 
We hold everyone at Lam responsible for behaving in accordance 
with our values, so our ethics and compliance policies apply to all 
our employees, temporary workers, contractors, and consultants. 
In 2019, we strengthened our Ethics and Compliance charter, 
including codifying the dotted line reporting relationship between 
the chief compliance officer and the Board of Directors Audit 
Committee and making improvements to the program design. 
Another governance improvement formalized the requirement 
that reports by the chief compliance officer to the Board and 
the Audit Committee should occur in executive sessions without 
management present. In addition, we also provided the Ethics and 
Compliance team with an increased budget to grow the program. 
Lam strives to meet or exceed current industry standards, legal 
and regulatory requirements, and our own standards of business 
conduct. Our Ethics and Compliance program encompasses five 
major areas: risk management, policies, communications, training, 
and the Ethics Helpline. 
Risk Management
Lam consistently assesses internal and external risks that must be 
managed to support responsible governance and ethics. Based on 
the risk assessment, we refine our programs and adjust our annual 
plan. 
Policies
Code of Ethics
We maintain a Code of Ethics that applies to all employees, officers, 
and members of the Board of Directors. The Code of Ethics 
establishes standards to promote honest and ethical conduct, 
including the proper handling of actual or apparent conflicts of 
interest between personal and professional relationships. The code 
also establishes expectations of full, fair, accurate, timely, and clear 
disclosure in the periodic reports we file with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission (SEC) and in other public communications. 
We will promptly disclose to the public any amendments to, or 
waivers from, any provision of the Code of Ethics to the extent 
required by applicable laws. Global Standards of Business Conduct
Our employees’ dedication to a culture built on Core Values and 
customer trust drives Lam’s success. To reinforce this culture and 
to help our employees determine the right thing to do in a variety 
of specific circumstances, we created our Global Standards of 
Business Conduct (GSBC) policy. This is a written standard of 
appropriate business conduct, addressing various issues such 
as protecting confidential information, giving and receiving gifts 
or entertainment, avoiding bribery and corruption, engaging in 
accurate accounting practices, appropriately retaining records, 
properly using mobile devices and other company assets, avoiding 
conflicts of interest, promoting fair competition, working outside of 
Lam, engaging in proper insider trading practices, and acceptable 
practices for public communications, donations, and political 
activities. It also addresses workplace conduct issues such as 
harassment, discrimination, and improper relationships. 
In addition to the GSBC, we have other policies and procedures 
to provide further guidance on specific ethics and compliance 
areas, including, for example, Insider Trading policy and procedure, 
Conflicts of Interest procedure, and Conflicts of Interest Created by 
Relationship policy.  
Communications  
Lam communicates regularly with employees about our shared 
commitment to ethics and compliance through:
 • Quarterly ethics and compliance email bulletins 
 • Messages and video postings on The Point, our intranet site
 • The CEO social networking forum, all-employee meetings, 
  and email communications  
Training  
We require that all our employees take an annual online training 
course that reinforces their understanding of selected topics 
covered by the GSBC and certify that they have read the GSBC. 
We take a risk-based approach to the topics that will be covered 
each year. In 2019, 97% of employees completed the training. In 
addition to the GSBC training, our employees also participate in 
comprehensive online training on anti-harassment, information 
security, foreign trade compliance, and IP protection. In 2019, we 
also provided in-person training to employees on these topics in  
six regions with over 900 trainees in attendance. Ethics Helpline  
The Ethics Helpline is operated by an independent service and is 
available 24 hours a day and seven days a week in most regions 
where Lam operates. It is accessible through both our external and 
internal websites. The Helpline provides a channel for employees, 
suppliers, customers, and other business partners to seek guidance 
or report suspected ethical or compliance violations. Concerns may 
be reported anonymously, and all reports are treated confidentially. 
Every time a report of a potential violation is made through the 
Helpline, we document it, investigate it, determine appropriate 
remediation, and make sure that necessary remedial measures are 
taken. Reported topics range from employee relations to conflicts of 
interest. Lam did not receive any reports made by suppliers or their 
workforce regarding human trafficking and forced labor in 2019. Business and Governance
Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201914
Protection of Customer Data, 
Individual Privacy,  
and Cybersecurity  
Protecting the data of our employees, customers, and suppliers is 
critical to retain their trust. We have multiple security measures 
in place for critical information systems that we operate, as well 
as for those provided by third parties and hosted on their own 
networks and servers. Our security organization is responsible 
for cybersecurity, physical security, and business continuity. 
This structure gives Lam an interconnected view of security and 
enables efficient and effective control of our security management 
processes. Our corporate vice president of Business Operations, 
the executive responsible for security, reports on a quarterly basis 
to the Board of Directors Audit Committee on Lam’s information 
security policies, program, internal controls, and incidents.
Lam has achieved International Standards Organization (ISO) 27001 
certifications for information security for nine sites, ensuring that 
our information security management system and programs comply 
with global best practices. Lam also selectively screens and audits 
suppliers for information security controls to protect Lam’s and 
our partners’ information. In 2019, we did not experience any cyber 
incidents that resulted in a material adverse impact.Business and Governance
Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201915 Products and Customers
Products and Customers
Unlocking the Potential of Technology
As part of our culture of innovation, Lam has long been challenging 
assumptions and defying conventions. We push the boundaries of 
technology, driving breakthroughs that create solutions and accelerate 
progress to help our customers achieve new milestones. 
Our innovations are enabling the future, and we are mindful that this future 
must be sustainable. We consider not only the viability of our products and 
solutions in the marketplace, but also the environmental and social impacts 
of our business, today and in the future. These considerations inform 
product design, R&D efforts, and how we define success for our business 
and our customers.
Our management approach seeks to develop innovative products and 
solutions that exceed safety requirements and incorporate energy 
efficiency features, benefiting our customers and the environment. We also 
strive to extend the life of our products and solutions through our Customer 
Support Business Group (CSBG) offerings, enabling our customers to realize 
greater value from our products with a potentially lower environmental 
impact.
2019 Key Accomplishments
 • Invested $1.2 billion in research and development
 • Achieved an installed base of approximately 61,000 chambers
 • Incorporated energy-efficient features into select deposition   
  products that can achieve up to 12% energy reductionLam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201916 Products and Customers
Deposition
Metal Films
Dielectric Films
Film TreatmentProduct Offerings
We are a global supplier of innovative wafer fabrication equipment and services to the 
semiconductor industry.
Strip & Clean
Dry Strip
Wet CleanEtch
Conductor Etch
Dielectric Etch
Through-Silicon Via (TSV) Etch
Advanced Equipment 
& Process Control
Virtual Process Development
Mass Metrology
Customer Support
Service
Spares
Upgrades
Reliant Systems™
Our Customers
Our global customer base includes leading semiconductor memory, logic, and specialty 
technology chipmakers. We are committed to our customers’ success and partner with them to 
build smaller, faster, and better performing devices. Making semiconductors often requires highly 
sophisticated process technologies to integrate an increasing array of new materials with precise 
control. Our equipment delivers cost-effective, high productivity capabilities that enable 
customer success.
Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201917
Commitment to Innovation
The fourth industrial revolution, also referred to as Industry 4.0, 
connects technologies – artificial intelligence, smart manufacturing, 
big data, and others – to power more productive, responsive, and 
connected devices and solutions. 
As a leader in semiconductor manufacturing equipment, Lam is 
not just experiencing this revolution – we are enabling it through 
the technologies we create. Our ability to achieve and maintain 
leadership depends on our culture of and investments in innovation. 
We make significant investments in R&D programs and focus on 
trust-based collaborations with our customers to develop solutions 
to grand challenges in the areas of atomic scale precision, surface 
integrity, affordability and sustainability, equipment intelligence 
and speed to solution. We maintain a culture of innovation through 
projects and programs that inspire our people, generate new 
ideas and encourage new ways of working that drive value for our 
customers, company and communities.
Realizing Opportunity with Innovation  
and Collaboration  
In 2018, we launched Tech Vision, our guiding principles that provide 
shared purpose across the Lam global technical community around 
areas of strategic relevance, customer grand challenges, and 
critical enabling technologies. Tech Vision is the framework for our 
innovation programs and events to encourage our employees to 
connect, learn, innovate, and be inspired. 
We Discover Together through a series of educational 
opportunities and events, both in person and online. 
Our technical community showcase their work with 
peers and management to inspire one another and 
encourage knowledge sharing and collaboration. 
We value diverse perspectives from both inside and outside 
the company, and actively participate in technical forums with 
customers, industry peers, university faculty, and students to spark 
new ideas and spur collaborations to address grand challenges.
We Accelerate Innovation through programs, 
partnerships, and co-development opportunities. 
Lam offers a unique lab infrastructure that supports 
innovation and enables fast cycles of learning. As part 
of our agile engineering capability, this lab structure 
allows us to move quickly and experiment with a wide 
range of materials, processes, and hardware configurations. University Engagement: Accelerating 
Innovation through Collaboration
Lam collaborates with universities and academic consortia around 
the globe. We support leading-edge research and build strong 
relationships with students and professors. These engagements 
drive diversity in our technology and talent pipelines, increase 
speed to solution, build thought leadership, and position Lam at the 
forefront of emerging technologies. 
In addition to research collaborations, Lam’s university 
engagements include providing scholarships, fellowships, and 
thesis awards, as well as sponsoring scholarly competitions, events, 
research consortia, and lab affiliations. In 2019, we had research 
engagements with approximately 70 universities in 19 countries. 
Our University Committee, a cross functional team with both 
technical and non-technical membership across Lam, provides 
oversight and continuity across our university engagements efforts. 
In 2019, a Global University Council was formed to further engage 
regional leadership and enhance our global university engagement 
activities. Products and Customers
Unlock Ideas 2019
Unlocking the potential of technology requires open innovation. 
Unlock Ideas is a university grant program to support feasibility 
testing of innovative concepts, funded jointly by the Lam 
Research Foundation and the Office of the Chief Technology 
Officer (OCTO). Each winning proposal earns a $25,000 seed 
donation for the corresponding academic partner. In 2019, 
regional participation increased, and submissions represented 
broader technology coverage than ever before, helping Lam to 
continue to push the boundaries of innovation. 
 • 23 proposals were chosen 
 • Submissions were in partnership with professors  
  from 57 universities across 10 countriesLam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201918
Tech Symposium 
The Tech Symposium is our premiere forum for academic 
and industrial collaboration to drive innovation. Participants 
share learning on advanced research, explore cross-institution 
collaboration, and educate students about careers in the 
semiconductor industry.This annual event is held with our strategic university collaborators: 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), Stanford University, 
Tsinghua University, and the University of California, Berkeley. It 
features customer keynote presentations, faculty talks, discussion 
panels, a student poster session, and networking opportunities. 
More than 150 students, professors, and industry executives 
participated in the 2019 event co-hosted with MIT.nano and 
Microsystems Technology Laboratories (MTL) on the theme of 
“Smart Systems for Semiconductor Manufacturing.”
Seminar Series
Our technical seminar series provides a regular opportunity for the 
Lam community to share work with peers. We held 49 sessions 
attended by more than 7,250 Lam employees in 2019. In addition, 
we invite distinguished faculty to present on their latest research 
and findings. We host thought leaders once per quarter to share 
insights on innovation methodologies and approaches. In 2019, 
we had the honor to host speakers from Google, Intuit, Singularity 
University, and TCGen Partners. 
Increasing Equipment 
Productivity, Energy Efficiency,  
and Life Cycle
Maintaining the rapid pace of innovation in our industry is key for 
our customers, and Lam is committed to delivering product and 
service offerings that meet our customers’ productivity needs. We 
continue to invest in R&D to extend the life and capability of our 
products and solutions, which can result in materials and energy 
savings.
In 2015, Lam committed to expanding the product and service 
offerings that enable customers to curb chemical consumption 
and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions within their operations. We 
have since achieved the highest chemical reclaim efficiencies in the 
industry to reduce chemical consumption and waste, particularly 
for our clean products. We approach power usage reduction in 
two ways: productivity improvements (reducing the amount of Products and Customers
Start-Up Competition at Tech Symposium
New to the Tech Symposium in 2019 was the Lam Capital 
Start-Up Connection, a collaboration with the MIT Startup 
Exchange to build bridges between start-ups and industry. 
Eleven entrepreneurs were invited to pitch their ideas, and their 
presentations were judged by a panel of top venture capitalists. 
All participants received industry exposure, and the winning 
company received a convertible note for their next round of 
funding from Lam Capital. 
Engineering & Technology Conference (ETC)  
Every year, Lam brings together 500 members of its global 
technical community to connect, learn, innovate, and inspire. 
The impact of this annual event is tremendous: 
 • 93% of attendees reported learning something at ETC that 
  will help them solve a challenge faster or more holistically
 • 86% of attendees reported that attending ETC sparked a  
  new idea or encouraged use of an innovation best practiceVillach Crowdsourcing Campaign  
Early in 2019, our Villach, Austria, office held a crowdsourcing 
campaign, inviting employees to submit their ideas on how to 
improve our clean products. Employees brought 46 innovative 
ideas to the table, and a committee of leaders reviewed the 
ideas and awarded prizes. These ideas significantly increased 
efficiencies for both Lam and our customers. “I liked the idea 
that any employee can provide a proposal from a personal 
perspective of daily business,” said Ursula Habernig, a foreign 
trade manager.
Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201919
energy consumed in making each wafer) and pure energy savings 
(building our equipment with more energy-efficient heaters, radio 
frequency power sources, and other components). Since 2015, 
we have achieved a cumulative reduction in energy use of up to 
an estimated 36% in multiple deposition product lines and a 25% 
reduction for our EOS® wet clean product lines.
In 2019, we incorporated further energy efficiency features into 
our deposition products: these features offer up to 12% energy 
reduction for chemical vapor deposition (CVD) tools via process 
cooling water improvements, adding an ECO pump and an ECO 
mode scrubber, and optimizing exhaust flows. For our SABRE® 
line, we offer features that can achieve a 9% reduction in energy 
use with a thermal shield, chamber exhaust improvements, and a 
more efficient chiller. Lastly, we incorporated features that offer 
over 200,000 kWh per year energy reduction for each EOS tool 
via facility reductions in exhaust and vacuum. The lower exhaust 
requirement will save one of our customers approximately 4 million 
kWh per year.
Our CSBG organization provides products and services that 
maximize installed equipment performance, predictability, and 
operational efficiency. By the end of 2019, we had an installed base of approximately 61,000 chambers with a dedicated team to serve 
and maintain those tools for maximum productivity. We offer a 
broad range of services to deliver value throughout the life cycle of 
our equipment, including customer service, spares, upgrades, and 
refurbishment of our products. CSBG is committed to supporting 
our customers to extend the life of their existing equipment. 
Many of the technical advances that we introduce in our newest 
products are also available as upgrades, which provide customers 
with a cost-effective strategy for extending the performance and 
capabilities of their existing wafer fabrication lines.
Additionally, our CSBG provides new and refurbished previous-
generation equipment for applications that do not require the most 
advanced wafer processing capability. 
Commitment to Quality
Lam is committed to continuously enhancing the quality 
of operations. We take a holistic approach to develop and 
produce high-quality products and services, resulting in positive 
differentiation with our customers. Lam maintains a certification for 
ISO 9001, an international standard that provides a framework for an 
effective quality management system. We also strive to ensure that quality is a value that is embraced 
with pride by our employees and that it is evident to our customers. 
In 2019, we created a Quality Leadership Team (QLT) to oversee 
and reinforce our commitment to a culture of quality. The QLT is 
a cross-functional senior management team focused on critical 
business processes to deliver company-wide quality performance 
and awareness. The team’s role is to understand our customers’ 
perspectives and ensure that safety and quality are designed into 
every product. The QLT includes members from our product groups 
as well as representation from departments such as Engineering, 
Global Quality, Global Operations, Manufacturing, Supplier Quality, 
Sales Operations, and Customer Service. Products and Customers
Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201920 Products and Customers
A New Life for the Kiyo45™
One of our etch products released nearly 15 years ago, 
Kiyo45™ was nearing obsolescence. However, when 
a customer approached us with a completely new 
challenge, Lam’s Customer Support Business Group 
realized the older technology had the flexibility to adapt 
to a new purpose. Together, we created an innovative 
solution that repurposed yesterday’s technology to 
solve tomorrow’s challenges, giving old equipment a 
creative, new role in an evolving industry.Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201921  Our Workplace
 
Empowering the Potential of Our Employees
Lam strives to provide a work environment that unlocks the potential 
of our employees by supporting their talents, uplifting their voices, and 
fostering their creativity. We are committed to attracting and retaining 
the best talent, and we believe that an engaged, diverse, and thriving 
workforce will drive a sustainable future for our company and society.  
Our management approach is built on the idea that our employees 
are at the heart of our company’s success. Employee engagement, 
inclusion and diversity, professional development, recognition, safety, 
and wellness are areas we focus on to make Lam a great place to work. 
In particular, we believe that an inclusive and diverse workforce is 
critical to the success of our business and the employee experience. In 
2019, we made significant investments into strengthening these aspects 
of our workplace strategy and will continue to do so with attention and 
resources. These efforts are led by the senior vice president of Human 
Resources and governed by the Compensation and Human Resources 
Committee of the Board of Directors, ensuring the highest level of 
attention is devoted to our goals in this area.
2019 Key Accomplishments
 • Increased our employee engagement across the globe with CEO   
  engagement sessions and global employee surveys
 • Expanded our inclusion and diversity program with additional   
  resources, the launch of global inclusion training, and new 
  employee resource groups
 • Supported employee growth with new career development,    
  mentoring, and job rotation programs, and nearly 480,000 hours   
  of training across 3,000 different coursesOur WorkplaceLam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201922
Our People
Our diverse and talented people offer invaluable perspectives and expertise to fuel our innovation and progress. We embrace inclusion and diversity 
and proactively create opportunities to attract, retain, and reward a multidimensional workforce. Our positive growth and values-based culture are 
reflected in more than 712 new hires, a 91% retention rate, and 8 average years of service at Lam. 
As part of our commitment to transparency we are increasing our demographic disclosure this year to include information about the global gender 
makeup of our executive and manager levels, along with new college graduates (NCGs), within the company. Programs we have already put in place, 
such as mentoring and rotation programs, along with future programmatic investments, will support our efforts to increase diversity at Lam.
All Employees
Global and U.S. gender
New College Graduate
U.S. genderExecutives
Global and U.S. gender
U.S. EthnicityManagers
Global and U.S. gender
Global
82.3% Male
17.7% Female79.6% Male
20.4% FemaleU.S. Global
83.6% Male
16.4% Female80.0% Male
20.0% FemaleU.S. Global
86.6% Male
13.4% Female86.0% Male
14.0% FemaleU.S.
67.2% Male
32.8% Female Our Workplace
1.9%
0.3%
0.5%
1.9% 7.1%30.8%
6.1%51.4%
American Indian/Alaskan NativeAsian
Black or African AmericanHispanic or Latino
Native Hawaiian or Other Paciﬁc Islander
Two or More RacesWhite
Not Stated0%1%
Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201923
Engaging Our Employees to 
Create a Great Place to Work
“Our culture of continuous improvement relies 
on our foundation of continuous feedback.”  
      – Tim Archer, president and CEO
Seeking Employee Input and Ideas
In 2019, Lam focused on increasing engagement with our employees 
and amplifying their voices. Within 100 days of being appointed, 
our new CEO held 46 in-person engagement sessions with more 
than 1,000 employees across the globe. In these sessions, many 
employees openly shared their thoughts and ideas on how to make 
Lam better. Our Board of Directors also met directly with employees 
in small groups at multiple locations in order to engage and hear 
directly from employees. In August, we rolled out a global survey 
to gather input from employees on culture, inclusion and diversity, 
career opportunity, and manager effectiveness. Based on the 
feedback from employees, we undertook multiple actions in 2019, 
including:  
 • Launched a new inclusion training for our global workforce to 
  ensure employees feel valued and respected 
 • Expanded employee access to online learning materials
 • Created a new job rotational program for experienced 
  employees, modeled after our successful new college graduate  
  rotation program 
 • Piloted a mentoring program with three women employee   
  resource groups 
 • Launched new Grow and Lead development programs for 
  first-time managers and experienced managers, respectively,  
  focused on developing high-performing, inclusive teams
Employee Survey ResultsEmployee Recognition
Recognition is a key part of Lam’s employee engagement strategy. 
Our awards, granted to both individuals and teams, acknowledge 
innovative contributions, problem solving, and demonstration of 
Core Values. Recognition can be given by leaders, committees, and 
peers and includes the following awards:
 • Above and Beyond – any employee can nominate another 
  employee for their contributions that exemplify our Core 
  Values. In 2019, employees recognized fellow colleagues with 
  over 70,000 awards.
 • Vista – executives recognize and reward significant team 
  accomplishments that achieve vision objectives, demonstrate  
  Lam’s Core Values, and deliver high impact results to our 
  company and our customers. In 2019, there were 516 Vista   
  award recipients. 
 • Outstanding Technical Achievement (OTA) – given to 
  employees by Lam executives for epitomizing the Mission, 
  Vision Objectives, and Core Values of Lam. These individuals 
  are recognized for major technical contributions and best-in-
  class leadership. In 2019, we distributed two OTA awards. 
 • Patented Innovation – an annual recognition by Lam executives 
  of an outstanding patented technology issued in the past five  
  years. In 2019, we distributed one Patented Innovation award.
 • Fellow - honors employees who are widely recognized as  
  leading technical experts within the industry, role model 
  Lam’s Core Values and consistently deliver cumulative, 
  substantial contributions that significantly impact Lam’s 
  products, business, and customers. In 2019, we named one  
  new Fellow. Our Workplace
Employee Survey Results
83%
Response Rate
(Benchmark=80%)74
Engagement Score 
(Technology Benchmark=74)
 “The recognition has shown me 
that Lam values success even at 
the very start of a much bigger 
vision. Lam strongly believes 
that work which will help deliver 
the future should absolutely be 
encouraged and recognized.”  
  – 2019 Vista award winnerLam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201924
Building a Culture of Inclusion 
and Diversity
At Lam, we believe it is important for every person to feel valued, 
included, and empowered to achieve their full potential. By 
bringing unique individuals and viewpoints together, we achieve 
extraordinary results. Diverse backgrounds, perspectives, and 
talents promote creativity and innovation, accelerate performance, 
and are critical to the company’s long-term success. 
Lam’s inclusion and diversity approach focuses on three core 
pillars: fostering inclusion, increasing diversity, and sharing our 
progress. As part of our ongoing commitment to an inclusive and 
thriving culture, we direct our investments toward four key areas: 
leadership development, employee engagement, talent growth, 
and communications. In 2019, we expanded our resources by hiring 
an experienced leader to enhance our corporate inclusion and 
diversity program and promote the integration of our strategic 
initiatives across all business units. 
Fostering Inclusion
We continue to strengthen our culture and create a positive and 
productive work environment and recognize inclusion as a key driver 
of success. Our culture of inclusion encompasses many aspects 
of the employee experience – we are intentional about fostering 
inclusion in recruiting, training, and company policy.
Training and Employee Support 
We offer a variety of trainings and employee resources to promote 
an inclusive culture and meet employees’ needs. To strengthen 
our managers’ skill in leading with inclusion, we incorporated tools 
and resources for building an inclusive culture into our Grow and 
Lead management development programs. We also introduced 
an unconscious bias mitigation training for all people managers. 
We strengthened our Global Anti-Harassment Policy and required 
a harassment-prevention training for our global workforce. Our 
Employee Relationships team also serves as a resource for 
addressing employees’ concerns.
  
In addition, we launched several women’s mentoring cohorts with 
our Women@Fremont, Women in Global Operations, and Women 
in Engineering employee resource groups (ERGs). Individual 
contributors and junior managers were paired with senior 
leaders to develop leadership skills and individual learning goals. 
Approximately 95 mentees participated in our 2019 pilot programs. Our Workplace
Inclusion and Diversity
At Lam, our vision is for every person to feel valued, included, and empowered 
to achieve their full potential. By bringing unique individuals 
and viewpoints together, we achieve extraordinary results.Foster Inclusion
Create and ensure a 
positive and productive 
work environment that 
recognizes inclusion as a 
key driver of business 
resultsIncrease Diversity
Increase opportunities for 
diverse perspectives, 
leading to better 
decision-making and 
greater innovation
Share Progress
Be transparent about our 
position and direction, 
and hold ourselves 
accountable to continuous 
improvement
Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201925
Employee Resource Groups
In 2019, we formalized our ERGs to enhance Lam’s culture of 
inclusion. ERGs are communities of employees that volunteer 
to contribute to an inclusive and diverse culture at Lam. These 
groups connect employees, provide learning and development 
opportunities, participate in mentoring programs, support 
recruitment, and engage in our local communities. 
Under our new ERG model, each group develops its own charter, 
goals, and initiatives in accordance with Lam’s three pillars of 
inclusion. Our current groups support a broad range of constituents, 
including two newly formed groups: PRIDE and Veterans at Lam. In 
addition to those groups, we have Women in Engineering, Women 
in CSBG, Women in Lam Leadership, Women in Global Operations, 
Women@Fremont, and Community of Latinos & African Americans 
for Student Success Outreach (C.L.A.S.S. Outreach) ERGs actively  
engaging with employees.
 Our Workplace
Women in Engineering hosts events focused on professional 
development and actively participates in the Society of Women 
Engineers. The group also partners with non-profit organizations 
Girls Inc. and Saturday Academy to support local communities.Lam Veteran’s Community was created in 2019. Inaugural 
activities included hosting a lunch for veterans at our Tualatin, 
Oregon, facility. The group also provided access to HeartMath 
Education and Resilience Training (H.E.A.R.T.), a program that 
supports veterans and their individual needs.
C.L.A.S.S. Outreach holds events at Lam in partnership with the 
100 Black Men of Silicon Valley organization and the Hispanic 
Foundation of Silicon Valley to educate diverse youth on 
technology careers. 
Albert Wright, master engineering technician, who leads the 
C.L.A.S.S. Outreach group said, “We have impacted over 500 
students, educators, and others, through our annual CuBu 
(pronounced, “See You, Be You”) site tours, where local African 
American and Latino students are exposed to our industry 
through Lam professionals who look like they do.”PRIDE was formed in 2019, and the group held their first 
celebration in June to share what Pride Day means to its 
members and give employees a chance to celebrate and 
support our lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, and 
asexual community (LGTBQA). 
“I am excited that Lam is supporting our newly formed PRIDE 
group,” noted founding member and mechanical engineer 
Jeremy Tucker. “The investment in our ERG supports an 
environment where employees can be comfortable as their 
complete selves at work and make a positive impact on 
vulnerable LGBTQA communities outside of Lam.”
Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201926
Valuing Diversity
Lam recognizes the importance of diversity and believes that it 
leads to better decision-making and greater innovation. In 2019, we 
focused primarily on recruitment practices and engagement with 
external partners for our diversity strategic pillar. A key component 
of our strategy was to ensure our recruitment team and hiring 
managers sought a diverse slate of candidates for all U.S. positions. 
In 2019, we expanded our diversity hiring goals for NCGs to 
include interns and focused on increasing gender diversity within 
our cohorts. We made great progress towards this goal; women 
constituted 32.8% of our 2019 cohort, a significant increase from 
23.5% in 2018. One way we are working to meet these goals is by 
leveraging existing events and partnerships, like Lam Days. These 
annual campus events with strategic university partners promote 
networking and technical exchange between Lam and students 
and faculty. The 2019 Lam Days at Stanford and the University of 
California, Berkeley featured a coffee break with students from 
women’s groups in the engineering colleges. We followed another 
one of our signature university events, the Lam Research Tech 
Symposium, co-hosted with MIT.nano and Microsystems Technology 
Laboratories in 2019, with a “Breaking Barriers” breakfast where 
female students gained career insight from a panel of female Lam 
employees. 
This year, Lam selected 12 graduate students from the National 
Consortium for Graduate Degrees for Minorities in Engineering 
and Science (GEM) for all-expenses paid fellowships and summer 
internships at Lam. GEM aims to increase the participation of 
underrepresented groups in science, technology, engineering and 
math (STEM) graduate programs by providing full-tuition fellowships 
at the master’s and doctorate levels.
Sharing Progress
Lam commits to being transparent about our progress towards 
a more inclusive and diverse workplace. We hold ourselves 
accountable to continuous improvement through internal goal 
setting, public disclosure of employee demographic data, and 
regularly sharing progress reports.
  Our Workplace
Collin Muniz
2019 GEM Fellow
University of Southern California, PhD Chemistry 
Oregon State University, BS Physics and Chemistry 
Intern – Etch Business Unit
“Many of my student peers finish their program and then have to 
decide what they REALLY want to do after school. My experience 
at Lam is giving me more industry perspective while enhancing my 
problem-solving skills.” Women in Tech
Lam sponsored the third annual Women in Tech Symposium devoted 
to “The Future of Artificial Intelligence (AI).” The event, launched  
by the Women in Tech Initiative at the University of California  
(WITI@UC), showcased the experiences of professional women in the 
AI field and explored our collective future with representatives from 
leading companies, start-ups, academia, and the public sector.
Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201927
Recruiting the Best and 
Brightest through University 
Engagements and Events
Lam focuses on hiring the top talent to fuel our future success. 
Many of our recruitment efforts are carried out through critical 
partnerships with key universities. Through our internship program, 
new college graduate program, and our on-campus events, we are 
able to recruit some of the best and brightest students. Many of our 
senior executives began their careers at Lam right out of college, 
and we believe our deep engagement with our university partners 
will lead us to many of our future leaders. 
Our internships offer employment for current college or university 
students. Students collaborate with experienced professionals and 
get hands-on technical or business experiences that complement 
their academic studies. Interns are also encouraged to develop 
innovative ideas and solve complex engineering or business 
problems. Interns present their work at a poster session held in 
conjunction with our University Collaboration Showcase.
Lam’s NCG program combines educational training with hands-
on opportunities to provide early career professionals with 
intellectually challenging and dynamic experiences that will help 
prepare them for their careers. In 2019, we recruited 19% of our new 
hires through our NCG program from over 70 universities globally. 
To enhance the NCG program, we launched a rotation initiative 
within it, which gives newly hired engineers an opportunity to 
explore different facets of our business through active participation 
in various groups. After completing the 18-month program, 
participants choose a team that offers the best match for their 
skills, passion, and career goals.
Beyond our events and symposia on our university partner 
campuses, we also work with the Lam Research Foundation to 
provide college scholarships, fellowships, and thesis awards in 
support of engineering and chemistry endeavors. The foundation 
provided 100 scholarships to college students in the U.S. and Asia  
in 2019.
 Our Workplace
Iginla Muritala
Business Function Intern, 2019
Villach, Austria 
“I discovered that university studies were not 
enough to create a successful career. Adding 
an international practical experience in a multinational firm like 
Lam Research made it whole.”
Sesha Varadarajan
Senior Vice President & 
General Manager, Deposition
New College Graduate, 1999
 
“NCGs are invaluable for the company because they actually 
don’t have preconceived notions on what can and cannot be 
done! They always surprise the veterans with fresh ideas and 
perspective – we all learn from each other. We should constantly 
be curious to understand why. That persistence to ask “why” is 
the entire foundation of being a better contributor at Lam.” Adrija Bose
Customer Service Support, 
Spares India 
New College Graduate, 2019
 
“The exposure I received at Lam as an NCG made me 
comfortable from day one and helped me to identify a clear 
career path. The programs smoothed my induction process 
at Lam and exposed me to Lam’s Core Values, which are very 
helpful not only in my career but also in my personal life.”University Collaboration Showcase
Our university partners play an instrumental role in fostering 
innovation through collaboration and help us make connections 
with the brightest emerging talent. Our annual University 
Collaboration Showcase provides an opportunity for Lam 
to engage with top graduate students in the U.S., while also 
providing a forum for Lam technical liaisons and graduate 
students to share learning from research collaborations. In 
2019, 11 students were invited to present their research, and 
had the opportunity to learn more about Lam through lab and 
manufacturing tours as well as networking with employees  
and executives.
Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201928
Employee Development:  
Fostering the Potential in  
Each Other
We’re committed to fostering our employees’ professional growth, 
which will spark the innovation and next generation ideas that we 
seek. Lam is focused on growth and development at every level 
of the organization – we believe this will lead to success for our 
business and our employees. In 2019, we built, expanded, and 
implemented multiple development programs that contribute 
to a strong pipeline of talent and solid succession plans. We 
also launched a global individual development plan to align our 
development practices across the company. These investments 
support the continued growth of our people and led to nearly 1,400 
internal promotions in 2019. 
Our development programs are designed to scale leadership across 
Lam by guiding managers to motivate and inspire employees and 
harness the power of inclusive teams. We offer access to on-
site classroom, online, and virtual reality learning for professional 
development and education. Employees can also access funding for 
college education courses. In 2019, we invested significant resources in our leadership 
programs:
Grow  is a development program for our 
new managers. We redesigned this program 
in 2019 to align with the Lead and Edge 
programs, which are intended for more 
senior and experienced leaders. Grow 
focuses on effective people management tools and practices, 
communication, and two-way feedback skills. In 2019, 247 of 
our employees completed the program. Their Grow experience 
continues beyond the in person training course in a 12-18 month 
journey of additional content, experiences, and opportunities to 
participate both live and online in an ever-growing community of 
managers.
Lead is a newly created program designed 
for experienced managers. Following the 
4-day classroom training, participants 
receive a monthly continued learning 
opportunity on topics related to the Lam 
leadership competencies and Lead program focus areas. In 2019, 
335 of our employees participated in this program. 
Edge is a cohort-based, year-long program 
for executives who interact, collaborate, 
and influence globally within and outside 
of the company. Designed in collaboration 
with faculty members from the University 
of California, Berkeley Haas School of Business, the curriculum is 
intended to equip leaders with the skills needed to drive positive 
change. Facilitated by world-class professors from Berkeley, 
Harvard, MIT, and Stanford, the program helps these leaders to 
enhance their skills in leading high-performance teams, strategic 
thinking, and executive communications through continuous 
practice, education, and exposure. Each participant receives 
executive coaching for one year and works on a large-scale cross-
functional project to create value for Lam. During 2019, 148 leaders 
completed the Edge program. 
EnCoRE is a new rotation program 
developed in 2019 and to be launched in 
2020. Over the course of two six-month 
rotations, selected employees will work 
in new roles and geographies to expand their knowledge and gain 
exposure to different aspects of the business. Our technical training programs offer a variety of development 
opportunities for our technical employees: 
Leap provides engineers with four levels of 
technical certification across 11 disciplines. 
The classes foster knowledge transfer, 
cross-functional collaboration, speed to 
solution, and personal development. In 
2019, we had approximately 1,100 graduates and 1,350 programs 
completed. A program survey showed that the majority of 
respondents agreed that Leap is facilitating career and skills 
development, building consistency in technical capability, and 
improving productivity. 
Mixed Media Training is a globally expanding 
program that delivers performance-based learning 
through various media to employees and customers. 
This new approach reduces training costs, improves 
in-region training, and enhances our product training portfolio 
for customers. Virtual reality allows for effective and efficient 
equipment and software operation training and helps us expand our 
technical training programs. Our Workplace
Training at Lam
Number of training enrollments
662,064
Number of different courses
3,042
Dollars in reimbursement for educational expenses
$1.68 millionNumber of management training participants
730
$PMS 7462 C
Cool Gray 9 C
EnCoRE
Enable • Collaborate • Rotate • ElevateSkills & Career 
DevelopmentCross 
Functional 
CollaborationSpeed to 
SolutionKnowledge 
TransferIncrease your technical knowledge 
and advance your career.
Leap is a four-level          
certification program for 
the technical community 
focusing on:
Leap
94%of employees would stay 
at a company longer if it 
invested in their career*
68%
of employees prefer 
to learn at work*
56%
of employees say that 
they would spend more 
time learning if their 
manager suggested a 
course to improve skills*
*2018 LinkedIn Workplace Learning ReportLearn more about available programs and enroll today. Visit The Point > Resources > Leap Program >  
Available Programs  
Share your passion for technology. Email Leap@lamresearch.com to become a mentor, coach or instructor.
Process Product
ME/EE Systems
SW & Controls Analytics
Product MgmtTech Prog 
MgmtCore DisciplinesLeap Program Worldwide Adoption Status  
3000+
as of  
Q1 2019
Lam is committed to fostering a culture of learning 
and development for all our employees. The Leap 
program not only offers courses to learn new skills 
for your career development, but also enables you 
to share your knowledge and expertise with peers.
- Rick Gottscho, CTOTotal engineers enrolled 
Pradeep Bhadrachalam
Senior Process Engineer, 
Conductor Etch
Leap Participant
 
“While the Leap technical courses and content are the primary 
focus, I found the “soft-skills” training to be especially helpful. 
Specifically, I have learned how to convey my idea in a group 
setting in a way that enables collaboration and a healthy 
discussion.”
MIXED 
MEDIA
TRAININGLam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201929
Mentorship Fosters Learning 
and Development 
Lam seeks to accelerate employee development, broaden career 
opportunities, and expand professional networks for employees 
through our mentorship resources. 
In 2019, we launched Mentoring@Lam, an online resource center 
for employees who are interested in establishing their own mentor-
mentee relationships. This program offers individual employee 
materials, tools, and resources.Rewarding Our Employees
Our employees are at the heart of the company’s success, and we 
strive to support their personal success. Our Total Rewards package, 
time-off policies, and wellness programs are designed to ensure our 
employees are well-compensated, have time off to rest, and can 
access wellness benefits and tools to be healthy.
Total Rewards
Our Total Rewards program considers the employee as a whole 
person and incorporates a comprehensive compensation and 
benefits package aimed at supporting employees’ financial, physical, 
and mental well-being. We conduct an annual review of salaries 
and benefits packages using third-party benchmarking surveys 
to ensure that our offerings are aligned with the marketplace and 
remain attractive to top talent.
In addition to competitive salaries, we offer bonus incentives 
based on both individual and company performance. In 2019, 99% 
of our eligible employees received bonuses. Additionally, we offer 
a competitive 401(k) benefit with a 3% annual company match; 
94% of our employees participated in 2019 . We also offer stock 
awards to senior and other selected employees. In 2019, 77% of 
our employees chose to invest in Lam through our employee stock 
purchase plan (ESPP). Employees who work 20 hours or more 
per week may contribute up to 15% of their earnings to the ESPP 
(subject to statutory limits) and are eligible to purchase shares at a 
discount of at least 15%. Our Workplace
Geena Choi
Supervisor  
Order Fulfillment Management 
Gyeonggi-do, Korea
 
Geena was a participant in the mentoring 
program pilot with the Women in Global 
Operations employee resource group in 2019. 
As a new manager, she signed up for the 
program to help her grow from her role as individual contributor 
to a people manager. Geena shared, “Despite 10 years of working 
experience, my manager role was a new world. I felt it was a time 
to change my way of thinking and doing things, but I didn’t know 
where to start,” she said. “I shared my concerns with my mentor, 
who guided me on what to focus on to become a good leader. 
It saved a lot of ‘trial and error,’ helping me come up to speed 
more quickly, and gain trust from my team.”
Angela Hecke
Manager, Engineering
Villach, Austria
“The mentoring program provides advice 
on how to overcome obstacles that are new 
for me, from a person who has faced similar 
situations throughout her career. The learning 
curve is much faster than if I needed to figure out every solution 
on my own.”
Company &
Culture
Total
Package
Base SalaryCareer
OpportunityLong-Term
Incentives
Short-Term
IncentivesBenefits &
Wellness
Supporting Critical Family Time
The opportunity for individuals and growing families to 
connect with each other is an important part of supporting 
our employees as whole people. Paid short-term disability and 
family bonding time are offered to Lam U.S. employees to take 
the time to care for self and family. 
Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201930
Employee Wellness  
The health and well-being of our employees is critical to Lam’s 
ongoing success. The global Live Well program is designed to 
support the physical and mental health of employees at work, at 
home, and in the community. The program is focused on four areas: 
Eat, Move, Be Mindful, and Learn. In 2019, nearly 4,000 employees 
participated in 119 different Live Well programs or events, a 213% 
increase from 2018. 
We are expanding a variety of programs across our worldwide 
locations, many customized to the needs of employees in specific 
locations. Available activities include both online and in-person 
education, health and genetic screening, wellness fairs, seminars, 
personalized nutrition plans, and fitness programs. In 2019, our 
wellness education focused on three major areas: health, financial 
well-being, and stress management. Our Workplace
Live Well
Wellness Events 
in 2019
119 3,766Participants in 
Live Well events and 
challenges
Stepping Up for Wellness
More than 650 employees participated in our annual Global 
Steps Challenge in 2019, which sets daily activity goals 
designed to motivate individuals and create an environment  
of friendly competition that helps employees achieve their 
fitness goals.
Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201931
Championing Employee Health 
and Safety
At Lam, the safety of our employees is critical, and we integrate 
safety considerations across our business, from product design to 
customer services. We believe that by prioritizing safety throughout 
our business, Lam is better able to accelerate innovation, enhance 
customer trust, and enable our customers to shape the future. 
Our Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) policy seeks to provide 
a safe, injury-free workplace throughout our operations, including 
our offices, manufacturing sites, R&D centers, and customer sites 
where our field teams work. 
We believe that workplace injuries are preventable and recognize 
the role that behavior and training plays in preventing injuries. 
Accordingly, Lam continues to invest in education, awareness, 
monitoring, and prevention programs to ensure that our employees 
stay safe every day. Each year, we deliver thousands of hours of 
web-based and instructor-led training to help employees recognize 
and control safety hazards. We provide our key safety programs 
and training in multiple languages. People managers in field support, 
manufacturing, R&D, warehouse, and 
logistics operations undergo formal 
safety leadership training to enhance 
their skills in safety management and 
communication.
One key component of our injury 
prevention program is our layered 
approach to risk identification and 
reduction. Each year, site and regional 
EHS teams conduct safety risk 
assessments of their local operations. 
Our Risk Management by Walking 
Around (RMBWA) process continues to 
identify and track safety issues and implement corrective actions 
in our offices and manufacturing sites. In 2019, we conducted more 
than 200,000 RMBWA inspections. Our Rapid Field Risk Assessment 
(RFRA) process helps field teams manage risks at customer 
sites. Our Safety Awareness for Everyone (SAFE) program keeps 
employees informed of emerging safety issues and shares lessons 
learned from past incidents.We maintain multi-site certifications for ISO 45001, the globally 
recognized standard for occupational health and safety 
management systems. We continually monitor our safety 
performance at the enterprise, regional, and site levels. Our 
corporate EHS team uses our global incident tracking system to 
assess and monitor safety trends and reports out as a part of 
quarterly reviews to business units and executive leadership. Third-
party recognition also provides us with invaluable insights into our 
safety programs and performance, especially at our customer sites. 
Globally, Lam ended 2019 with a recordable injury rate of 0.33, less 
than half the 2018 industry average of 0.7. Our lost workday rate 
was 0.07, well below the industry average of 0.3. Our most common 
causes of injury, representing almost 70% of our injuries, continue to 
be strains and sprains, ergonomics, and slips, trips, and falls.
Note: 2019 industry average for injury rate data not available at time of publication. Recordable injury rate shown does not reflect  
our Silfex Ohio operations. Our Workplace
1.1
0.60.7
0.280.35
0.290.33
0.00.30.60.91.2
2016 2017 2018 2019Rate per 100 EmployeesRecordable Injury Rate (Lam vs. Industry) 
Industry Avg
Lam Rate
Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201932 Responsible Supply Chain
Committed to a Responsible Supply Chain
We understand the importance of an ethical and responsible supply chain 
and are committed to partnering with our suppliers to address critical 
issues. We hold our suppliers to the same Core Values to which we hold 
ourselves and have created clear expectations via our Global Supply Chain 
Code of Conduct and contracts. Sourcing the specialized components 
needed for our process equipment and services requires our supply chain 
to have a global presence and a global approach. We are committed to 
complying with all applicable laws and regulations and request our direct 
material suppliers to conduct their business in this manner as well. We 
work closely with our suppliers to address a wide range of issues, including 
human rights, supplier diversity, environmental impact, and mineral sourcing.  
Our management approach includes surveys, verifications and certifications, 
employee training and communications, compliance auditing and 
inspections, and corrective actions when warranted. Our Global Supply 
Chain Management Operations has a dedicated contracts and compliance 
manager who leads a cross-functional team to maintain supply chain 
compliance and ethical practices.
2019 Key Accomplishments
 • Enhanced our human trafficking due diligence process by focusing  
  on highest risk countries where our suppliers are located
 • Completed an 18-month long customer partnership pilot program 
  for the prevention and elimination of forced and bonded labor of 
  foreign migrant workers in our supply chain
 • Developed a new supplier survey to include CSR-related questionsResponsible Supply ChainLam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201933 Responsible Supply Chain
United StatesRussia
China
AustraliaJapanSouth
Korea
Taiwan
VietnamThailandMyanmarMongolia
Laos
Indonesia
Papua New GuineaSingaporeIsrael
MalaysiaUnited
Arab
Emirates
Philippines
New
ZealandKazakhstan
IndiaSaudi 
Arabia
SudanEgypt
Mali
NigeriaMauritaniaSpainFranceUnited
KingdomSweden
NorwayFinland
Estonia
Latvia
Poland
GermanyNetherlands
BelgiumIreland
LuxembourgLithuania
Belarus
Ukraine
Moldova
Romania
BulgariaDenmark
Portugal
Bermuda
Dominican
RepublicItalyAustriaCzech Republic
Slovakia
Hungary
CroatiaSlovenia
Serbia
Kosovo
AlbaniaMontenegroNorth
MacedoniaBosnia
and
Herzegovina
GreeceArmeniaSwitzerland
Andorra
ZambiaAngolaEthiopia
DRC
South AfricaZimbabwe
NamibiaCentral
African Republic
Kenya
TanzaniaUganda
Madagascar
MozambiqueDjibouti
BurundiRwandaTurkeyUzbekistan
Kyrgyzstan
Afghanistan
Brazil
ChileMexicoCanada
ArgentinaBoliviaColombia
PeruEcuadorGhanaIvory
Coast
LiberiaSierra
LeoneGuineaMorocco
Guyana
Suriname
Locations with suppliers
Possible locations of origin for 3TGs
Locations with suppliers and possible locations of origin for 3TGs
We actively engage with our suppliers to manage risk and promote an ethical 
and responsible supply chain. We work with suppliers from across the globe. 
These suppliers assist Lam in complying with our due diligence and reporting 
requirements under Section 1502 of the Dodd Frank Act of 2010.  In 2019, we 
had relationships with suppliers in over 50 countries depicted in the map.  
We have 96 possible locations of origin for Tungsten, Tantalum, Tin,  
and Gold (3TG).Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201934
Protecting Human Rights
Lam is a strong proponent of supply chain industry standards, 
including the guidelines published by the Institute for Supply 
Management (ISM) and the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA). We 
hold our supply chain accountable to Lam’s Global Supplier Code of 
Conduct, which incorporates by reference and requires suppliers’ 
adherence to both the RBA Code of Conduct and ISM Guiding 
Principles. As of June 2019, acknowledgment and consent to adhere 
to our supplier code of conduct is a mandatory requirement of our 
new supplier onboarding process.    
We annually train our supply chain management employees on how 
to carry out inspections and recognize potential signs of human 
rights abuses. We measure our progress using third-party scoring 
entities such as the Corporate Human Rights Benchmark and 
KnowtheChain.
Lam respects human rights and commits to adhering to humane 
business practices wherever the company does business. We are 
committed to complying with laws such as the UK Modern Slavery 
Act of 2015 and the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 
2010. Our Global Supplier Code of Conduct is intended to promote 
safe working conditions and treatment of workers with respect 
and dignity in our supply chain. We support the workers’ right to 
freedom of association and collective bargaining, which we aim 
to protect in our Global Employment Practices statement. These 
policies are distributed or communicated via email, published 
through our intranet, and made publicly available on our external 
website. Suppliers are contractually obligated to comply.In 2019, we evolved our approach to focus on high risk countries 
where our suppliers are located. To implement this approach, we 
surveyed our top 100 supplier families located in countries which 
the International Labor Organization identified as high risk for human 
trafficking. We also enhanced our human trafficking due diligence by 
adopting the Social Responsibility Alliance’s Slavery and Trafficking 
Risk Template (STRT). As a result of these efforts, we now have 
greater visibility into our supply chain operations and can better 
prioritize our due diligence and risk mitigation actions.  
Lam is committed to treating every worker with dignity and 
addressing forced labor and human trafficking risks wherever 
possible. Our anti-slavery, child labor, and human trafficking due 
diligence includes compliance with the Countering America’s 
Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA), which focuses on the 
prevention of North Korean forced labor.   
In 2019, Lam also began monitoring reported political, legal, and 
financial risks for our top 100 suppliers (representing over 90% of 
our direct spend) and our top 100 suppliers with operations in high 
risk regions for human trafficking.
Sourcing Minerals Responsibly
Lam’s goal is to use only responsibly sourced minerals in our 
products. Lam does not directly purchase conflict minerals or have 
any direct relationship with the mines or smelters that process 
them. We conduct due diligence of our suppliers with this goal 
in mind. Since 2012, we have worked closely with our suppliers 
to determine the sources of any conflict minerals that may be 
contained in our products. In 2019, we also updated our conflict 
minerals due diligence program to include responsible sourcing of 
cobalt. Responsible Supply Chain
Responsible Business Alliance
In 2019, Lam joined as an affiliate member of the Responsible 
Business Alliance (RBA), the world’s largest industry coalition 
dedicated to corporate responsibility in global supply 
chains. Our RBA scores at site levels range from 87% to 90%. 
Accordingly, the RBA determined Lam to be at low risk. As part 
of our membership, we also participate in two multi-industry 
RBA initiatives: 
 • Responsible Labor Initiative – An initiative focused on 
  ensuring the human rights of workers vulnerable to forced 
  labor in global supply chains
 • Responsible Mineral Initiative – A respected resource for 
  addressing issues related to the sourcing of minerals in 
  supply chainsAddressing Forced and Bonded Labor by 
Foreign Migrant Workers
In 2019, Lam completed an 18-month long pilot customer 
partnership program to raise awareness in our supply chain 
and understand how to support our suppliers in the prevention 
and elimination of forced and bonded labor of foreign migrant 
workers. The pilot program included certain major direct material 
suppliers and involved:
 • Encouraging and guiding pilot program participants to  
  update their company policies for more comprehensive  
  policies prohibiting forced labor/bonded labor in any form
 • Communicating expectations related to preventing forced  
  and bonded labor to all agents and subagents in the home  
  and destination countries
 • Mapping the entire journey of existing foreign migrant  
  workers from their home country or province to their   
  facility
 • Assessing the journeys of their foreign migrant workers,  
  identifying risk points and any controls in place
 • Creating a corrective action plan, ensuring identified risks 
  were addressed and that foreign migrant workers were  
  repaid any fees associated with employment by the end of  
  the 2019 calendar year
Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201935
Protecting Our Environment
Lam’s commitment to environmental sustainability extends to 
our supply chain. Our Global Supplier Code of Conduct includes 
requirements for environmentally responsible manufacturing 
processes. In 2019, we created (and will release in 2020) a Lam 
supplier survey focused on GHG emissions, CDP (formerly Carbon 
Disclosure Project) scores, and environmental sustainability goals, 
with further questions relating to ISO 14001 certification and RBA 
membership.  
In 2019, we also initiated an internal global supply chain project to 
reduce the use of natural resources in our operations by moving to 
an all-digital purchase order system. This will save:
 • More than 120,000 sheets of paper annually
 • Approximately 380,000 gallons of water that would  
  have been used in creation of the paper
Supporting Supplier Diversity
Lam values a diverse and inclusive supply chain and is committed 
to selecting diverse suppliers who offer goods and services that 
meet our company’s standards, supplier selection criteria, and 
customer requirements. Promoting a diverse supplier base is a 
priority for Lam, and we support a number of industry and customer 
initiatives around Supplier Diversity. We are a member of the SEMI™ 
Manufacturing Ownership Diversity Task Force that promotes and 
shares best practices for manufacturing ownership diversity (more 
commonly known as “supplier diversity”). We track and report 
diverse spends with direct material suppliers on a quarterly basis; 
and in 2019 we added diversity metrics to our supplier scorecard.Responsible Supply Chain
Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201936 Sustainable Operations
Committed to Operating Sustainably
At Lam, we believe that integrating environmental considerations into 
our business will better enable us to shape a more sustainable future. 
As the world tackles climate change and other critical environmental 
issues, we seek to do our part by responsibly managing our impact. 
Our environmental programs help us deliver better products to our 
customers and increase the efficiency of our operations. Our global 
goals on energy efficiency, greenhouse gas emissions reductions, 
water conservation, and waste reduction support our business and our 
commitment to the environment. We innovate on our environmental 
approach to ensure we are implementing cost-effective best practices 
and focusing our efforts where we can have the biggest long-term 
impact. 
Lam owns and operates offices, manufacturing, and R&D sites around 
the world. Since 2013, all Lam manufacturing sites have been externally 
certified to be compliant with ISO 14001, the recognized global standard 
for environmental management systems. Our local EHS teams conduct 
annual environmental assessments at each of our manufacturing 
sites, and our corporate EHS team conducts regular audits of 
business risks, standards conformance, regulatory compliance, and 
management system effectiveness across Lam’s locations worldwide. 
Our management reviews the findings of these assessments and audits, 
and ensures major deficiencies are adequately addressed. In 2019, we 
had no regulatory notices of violations, lawsuits, or investigations arising 
from environmental matters.
2019 Key Accomplishments
 • Reduced our GHG intensity by 35% from a 2012 baseline
 • Achieved over 2 million kWh in energy savings
 • Offset 72% of our measured scope 3 emissionsSustainable OperationsLam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201937
Reduce our GHG 
intensity by 20% 
from a 2012 
baseline2020 
Goal
2020 
Goal2020 
Goal
2020 
GoalAchieve an accumulated 14 million kilowatt-hours 
(kWh) of energy savings through implementation of 
energy efﬁciency projects among our global 
facilities compared to a 2012 baseline Build all new 
buildings to EPA 
ENERGY STAR 
standards 
Result:
35%Result:
Achieved
Have our U.S. 
operations rely 
on 25% renewable 
energy sources 
Result:
33%Result:
24 M kWh
2025 Goals
• Reduce Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions by 25% 
 from a 2019 baseline
• Achieve 12 million kWh in total energy savings by 2025
• Conduct waste audits in 2020 at applicable factory sites to establish  
 non-hazardous waste reduction goals for 2025
• Achieve zero waste to landﬁll for hazardous waste 
• Reduce water use by 15% in water stressed regions from a 2019 baseline2020 and 2025 
Environmental 
GoalsSustainable Operations
We are pleased to announce that we met or exceeded all of our 2020 environmental goals. 
We also recognize the importance of continuing to hold ourselves accountable with long-
term environmental goals. In 2019, we worked with a third-party to evalaute our historical 
progress, forecast our future activity, and develop data-driven 2025 goals for energy, climate, 
waste, and water. Our GHG emission target was developed to significantly reduce our 
environmental impact and transition towards a low-carbon economy. These goals will ensure 
we remain focused on mitigating our key environmental impacts.Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201938
Energy and Climate
Climate change is one of the most substantial issues of our 
time, and Lam recognizes our responsibility to act. Our R&D and 
manufacturing activities are our largest contributors to energy use 
and climate change. Therefore, our management approach directly 
addresses energy use and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. We do 
this by:
 • Improving and optimizing the energy efficiency of our 
  operations as the most direct and practical way of reducing 
  our energy use and GHG emissions
 • Implementing grid scale energy solutions with a bias towards 
  renewables and investing in on-site renewables where feasible 
 • Applying point-of-use (POU) abatement to mitigate effects of 
  process gas usage
 • Purchasing offsets to address portions of our scope 3   
  emissions
 • Engaging employees to encourage energy conservation
 • Setting goals, benchmarking ourselves against the industry,  
  and applying best practice approaches across our sites
In 2015, in support of the American Business Act on Climate Pledge, 
we set 2020 energy and climate goals, which we met in 2019. We 
also recognize there is more work to be done and developed new 
energy and climate goals to continue making progress.
Energy Use  
In 2019, our total energy use from our primary manufacturing 
and office locations was nearly 303 million kWh, an increase of 
over 19% from 2018. This increase was primarily due to increased 
R&D activities at our Fremont, California campus, increased 
manufacturing at our Eaton, Ohio site, and the opening of a new 
manufacturing site in Springfield, Ohio.
A portion of our energy use increase in 2019 came from the 
installation of a new nitrogen plant at our Tualatin, Oregon 
manufacturing site. Prior to installation of the new plant, we 
purchased and received more than 500 truckloads of nitrogen 
gas each year; we now receive fewer than 25 truckloads. While 
the new nitrogen plant slightly increases Tualatin’s overall energy 
consumption, we estimate it will reduce the total amount of energy 
needed to produce and deliver nitrogen by 60% – saving 11,000 
gallons of fuel and 7 million kWh of energy each year.Energy Efficiency
Energy use is a primary driver of our GHG emissions and a key focus 
for reducing our environmental and climate impact. Improving the 
energy efficiency of our operations by optimizing existing systems 
and implementing new efficiency and conservation projects ensures 
that we minimize our energy use where possible, while still delivering 
on our production commitments to customers. In 2015, Lam 
pledged to achieve an accumulated 14 million kWh of energy savings through implementation of energy efficiency projects by 2020. 
Since then, we have achieved over 24 million kWh in accumulated 
savings, exceeding our 2020 goal by 71%.
 
A few of our 2019 energy efficiency projects included:
 • Process Cooling Water System: We consolidated and 
  optimized two process cooling water systems at our Osan, 
  Korea manufacturing site, with estimated annual energy   
  consumption reductions of nearly 81,000 kWh.  
 • Compressor Replacement: We consolidated two air 
  compressor systems at our Livermore, California,
  manufacturing site, reducing energy consumption by 
  637,000 kWh in 2019.
 • Vacuum Pump Replacement: In Tualatin, Oregon, we partnered 
  with the Energy Trust of Oregon to complete a major vacuum 
  pump replacement project, avoiding 1.1 million kWh per year of 
  additional energy use.Sustainable Operations
Energy Use
165 172 196 22657475876
0.20.20.31.3
00.000050.000100.000150.000200.000250.000300.00035
050100150200250300350
2016 2017 2018 2019
Million  kWh / $1,000 R&D SpendingMillion Kilowwatt-Hours (kWh)
Calendar Year
Electricity Natural Gas Other (Solar + Diesel + Vehicles) Normalized Energy Use
Accumulated Energy Savings
1.54.97.313.724.0
051015202530
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019Million Kilowatt Hours
Calendar Year2020 Goal: 14 million kWh
Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201939 Sustainable Operations
Energy Efficient Facilities 
In 2015, in support of the American Business Act on Climate Pledge, Lam pledged to build all new 
buildings to EPA ENERGY STAR standards, which we achieved. We built one new building since 
2015, and it met the ENERGY STAR standards. Additionally, another 13 retrofitted buildings 
incorporate some ENERGY STAR standards, including our new Springfield, Ohio site.  
This facility features: 
 • A water processing system designed to fine-tune usage to only what is needed
 • Insulation to manage heat efficiency
 • Variable frequency drives that increase energy efficiency
 • Interior and exterior LED lightingEarth Day at Lam
We work hard to promote a culture of environmental stewardship. In April 2019, Lam celebrated 
Earth Day across our global locations in a variety of ways, from volunteering and employee Earth 
Day Fairs to electronics recycling. Employees in our Asia region were hard at work at Earth Day 
events in Taiwan, India, and Korea.
Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201940
Renewable Energy
Increasing our use of renewable energy sources is another strategy 
in our environmental management approach. In 2015, we pledged 
to have our U.S. operations rely on at least 25% renewable energy 
sources by 2020. At the end of 2019, renewable energy made up 
33% of our US energy use, and 35% of our global use.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Lam is committed to doing our part to mitigate climate change 
by managing our greenhouse gas emissions. We closely track our 
emissions, set goals, and report progress annually to the CDP. We 
actively address our carbon footprint through energy management and procurement strategies, greenhouse gas abatement, and 
carbon offsets. In 2019, our scope 1 and 2 absolute emissions 
increased by 22% while our scope 3 emissions decreased by 20%. 
In 2015, we pledged to reduce our scope 1 and 2 emissions by 
20%, using an intensity metric of tons of carbon dioxide equivalent 
(MTCO2e) per $1,000 of R&D spend. In 2019, our combined scope 
1 and 2 intensity was 35% below our 2012 baseline. Globally, our 
operations produced almost 111,500 MTCO2e of scope 1 and 
2 emissions (absolute), an increase of 22% over 2018, due to 
expanded operations at our Ohio sites and increased R&D activity.Scope 1 Emissions
In 2019, our overall scope 1 emissions were over 33,000 MTCO2e, 
which was 22% above 2018. This was mainly due to increased 
customer demonstrations and R&D activities at our Fremont, 
California site, and the start of operations at our new site in Ohio. 
We minimize our scope 1 emissions through optimization of our 
semiconductor processes and the installation of point-of-use 
(POU) and house abatement units. Sustainable Operations
2019 Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Non-Fluorinated 
Gases 
42.7%Fluorinated 
Gases 
57.1%Refrigerant Loss 
0.2%Energy From Renewable Sources in U.S.
12%16%37%
33% 33%
0%10%20%30%40%50%
2012 2016 2017 2018 2019% Renewable Energy Sources
CalendarYear2020 Goal: 25%Scope 1 + 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions
33,252 25,716 26,603 27,415 33,57252,628
71,009 77,088 64,02677,9060.14
0.10 0.09
0.070.09
00.020.040.060.080.100.120.140.16
020,00040,00060,00080,000100,000120,000140,000160,000
2012 2016 2017 2018 2019
Metric Tons CO2e /  $1,000 R&D spending Metric Tons CO2e
Calendar Year
Scope 1 Scope 2, Market-Based Normalized Scope 1 + 2 Emissions2020 Goal: 20% reduction 
 in GHG intensity
Scope 1 + 2 + 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions
25,716 26,603 27,41533,57271,00977,088
64,02677,90633,27545,203
28,96823,055
020,00040,00060,00080,000100,000120,000140,000160,000
2016 2017 2018 2019Metric Tons CO2e
Calendar Year
Scope 1 Scope 2, Market-Based Scope 3
CDP Reporting
We disclose our climate change, carbon, water, and waste risks and 
opportunities through CDP, a non-profit organization that assesses 
corporate climate impacts on behalf of the investor community. In 
2019, Lam again received a B grade on the Climate Change Survey 
and B- on the Water Survey. These scores are comparable or higher 
than the North America regional average and the electrical and 
electronic equipment sector average. Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201941
Scope 2 Emissions
In 2019, our scope 2 market-based emissions were nearly 78,000 
MTCO2e, which was 22% above 2018. Investing in energy efficiency 
is our top strategy for addressing our energy use and scope 2 
emission related issues.  
For additional details on our energy management approach,  
see page 38. 
Scope 3 Emissions
In 2019, our scope 3 emissions were 23,000 MTCO2e, a 20% 
decrease over 2018. Employee air travel and rental cars comprise 
the majority of our measured scope 3 emissions. The travel data 
we collect currently represent approximately 80% of total travel 
for the company. In 2019, we offset approximately 16,600 MTCO2e 
via carbon credits, representing 72% of our measured scope 3 
emissions. The carbon credits we purchased funded the following 
sustainability projects: 
 • Tonk Biomass Project in Tonk, India: This gold standard 
  project generates clean energy from mustard crop residues. 
  Since 2008, Kalpataru Power Transmission Limited and 
  Atmosfair have cooperated in the Tonk Biomass Project. 
  Their goal is to produce renewable energy at comparable 
  prices to electricity from coal power plants. To reach this 
  goal, they have continuously improved the efficiency of the 
  power plant, as well as streamlined operations in the biomass 
  storage and delivery system. 
 • Big Smile Wind Farm in Dempsey Ridge, Oklahoma. 
  This project delivers enough clean energy to power more than 
  46,000 U.S. homes. Waste Management
Waste reduction, reuse, and recycling have long been a priority for 
Lam, and we carefully monitor and manage the hazardous and non-
hazardous wastes generated by our operations. 
 
Most of the waste we generate is a result of our manufacturing 
activities. Roughly 76% of our waste is non-hazardous. As accepted 
materials and recycling regulations change, we work with local 
partners to identify new recycling opportunities for hard-to-recycle 
items. The other 24% of our waste is considered hazardous, the 
management of which is strictly monitored and regulated. 
Non-Hazardous Waste
In 2019, we generated over 6,500 metric tons of non-hazardous 
waste, a decrease of 6% from 2018, due primarily to decreased 
manufacturing activity. We achieved a 55% diversion rate globally.We continually look for opportunities to reduce the overall volume 
of waste we generate, re-use materials like paper and foam 
packaging, and recycle materials like wood, metal, batteries, and 
e-waste. We recycle or compost a variety of material, and the 
largest material categories by volume are wood and mixed recycling, 
including cardboard.
 Sustainable Operations
Non-H azardous Waste Generation 
and Diversion
4,4335,0536,9396,528
2,0832,7414,077
3,61347%54%59%
55%
020%40%60%80%100%
02,0004,0006,0008,00010,000
2016 2017 2018 2019
(Total Recycling / Total Generation) X 100Metric Tons
Calendar Year
Total Non-Hazardous Waste Non-Hazardous Waste Recycled Diversion RateScope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions
33,27545,203
28,968
23,05550%80%
70%
020%40%60%80%100%
010,00020,00030,00040,00050,00060,000
2016 2017 2018 2019
(Carbon Credits / Scope 3 Emissions) X 100  Metric Tons CO2e
Calendar Year
Scope 3 Emissions % Carbon Credits2019 Non-H azardous 
Waste Recycling
Paper
Mixed Plas�c and Packaging
Mixed Recycling + Cardboard
Produc�on Waste
Compost
Wood
Other Recycling
Silicon Scrap
Metal38%
11%3%
3%7%7%
3%6%
22%
Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201942
Hazardous Waste
The main hazardous wastes we generate are corrosive wastes, 
flammable wastes, and lab debris from our manufacturing and R&D 
activities. We have strict controls in place to ensure responsible 
handling of these wastes and prioritize treatment and recycling.
We generated over 2,100 metric tons of hazardous waste in 2019, 
an increase of 18% compared to 2018. This increase is primarily due 
to the mixed metal wastes from our wet R&D process and organic 
and inorganic materials in wastewater, which is sent to an off-site 
treatment facility. In 2019, we sent over 640 metric tons of hazardous wastes to 
recycling facilities, an increase of 27% from 2018. Common recycling 
methods are metal recovery and fuel blending. Only 1% of our total 
hazardous wastes was sent to landfill. The other hazardous wastes 
were disposed to either thermal treatment, deep-well injection, or 
off-site wastewater treatment. 
Lam partners with CHWMEG, a non-profit trade association whose 
members strive to efficiently steward waste, to audit our major 
off-site hazardous waste treatment, storage, and disposal facilities 
(TSDF). Eight TSDFs were audited this year, including the TSDF in 
Villach, Austria, with no significant findings.
Chemical Management
A significant environmental aspect of our operations is chemical 
management, and we take all appropriate measures to keep 
our chemical operations safe and legally compliant. In 2019, we 
launched an integrated chemical inventory management system, 
connecting real-time inventory to procurement, usage conditions, 
and regulatory reporting for our chemical users, handlers, and 
planners. With this system, we expect improved safety, greater 
usage efficiency, reduced waste generation, and simplified reporting 
across our manufacturing and R&D sites.
Water Management
Water Use
Lam recognizes that water stewardship is an important component 
of our overall environmental impact and that water scarcity is a 
pressing issue in many regions of the world. Our primary water 
use is for tool testing and manufacturing of silicon parts, general Sustainable Operations
Hazardous Waste Generation 
and Diversion
1,2861,6541,7882,113
16828450564213%17%28%30%
05%10%15%20%25%30%35%
05001,0001,5002,0002,5003,0003,500
2016 2017 2018 2019
(Total Recycling / Total Generation) X 100Metric Tons
Calendar Year
Total Hazardous Waste Hazardous Waste Recycled Diversion Rate
1% 2%
55%
12%30%Hazardous Waste Disposal
Landﬁll
Thermal Treatment
Offsite Wastewater Treatment
Deep-Well Injection
Recycled
Water Usage,  Treatment,  and Reclamation 
193197228276
91124142188
658086 87
00.000050.00010.000150.00020.000250.0003
050100150200250300
2016 2017 2018 2019
Million Gallons / $1,000 R&D SpendingMillion Gallons
Calendar YearWater Usage, Treatment, and Reclamation
Water Usage Wastewater Treated Onsite Wastewater Reclaimed Normalized Water UsageLam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201943
facilities, industrial cooling, and domestic usage. Understanding the 
criticality of water, especially in our water-stressed regions such as 
California, South Korea, and India, we track and monitor our water 
use on a site-by-site basis. In 2019, our operations consumed 276 
million gallons of water globally. This represents a 21% increase from 
2018, primarily due to the start-up of new operations in Ohio. 
Wastewater Management
We monitor our industrial wastewater in accordance with local 
regulatory requirements. Beyond wastewater, we also implement 
best management practices to manage our stormwater discharges. 
We work to be a good steward within our local communities and 
received one award recognizing our efforts in 2019.  
 • Our Tualatin, Oregon facility received the Industrial Partner 
  Pretreatment Award from Clean Water Services for achieving 
  zero pretreatment violations, a distinction we have received for 
  the sixth year in a row. 
Our Tualatin facility also reclaims treated process wastewater 
and uses it as feed water to the house scrubbers and point-of-
use abatement units in the R&D labs. The reclaimed water helps 
to reduce our total global water withdrawals and the amount of 
municipal water needed to support our facility infrastructure. 
In 2019, we reclaimed about 87 million gallons, which represents 
about 87% of the wastewater treated onsite in Tualatin and about 
46% of the total wastewater treated at our global sites.Sustainable Operations
Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201944 Our Communities
Investing in the Potential of Our Communities
Lam is committed to unlocking the potential of technology, each other, 
and the world. We believe that giving back to the communities that 
surround us is a central part of this commitment. Our investment in 
communities is also an important part of our culture and an expression 
of our Core Values. 
Our global philanthropy and volunteerism programs focus on providing 
financial and human resources to improve education and quality of 
life in the communities where we operate. Our community initiatives 
include grants, scholarships, and programs that engage employees 
in giving back, such as employee gift matching or volunteer matching 
programs and volunteer activities.
2019 Key Accomplishments
 • Provided 146 grants to non-profit partners
 • Donated $3.4 million in total giving
 • Delivered 13,400 hours of service through our employee volunteersOur CommunitiesLam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201945
The Lam Research Foundation 
Since 2000, Lam has been committed to investing in communities 
with more than $29 million in donations through our charitable 
giving foundation. Grants to non-profits are primarily distributed 
through the Lam Research Foundation and administered through 
partnerships with the Silicon Valley Community Foundation and the 
East Bay Community Foundation. In addition, our regional offices 
manage some international grants. 
To maximize the positive long-term impact of our efforts,  
Lam Research Foundation focuses on two areas of giving: STEM 
education and quality of life.
STEM Education
As a leading technology company, we believe that advancing 
students’ achievements in STEM education now will contribute to 
the economic development of our communities and the success 
of our industry in the future. Lam provides grants and volunteerism 
support to K–12 and university STEM-related initiatives. Our 
grant program focuses on academic achievement, gender gap 
challenges, secondary education preparedness, education 
quality enhancement, and workforce readiness in underserved 
communities. In 2019, we invested $1.38 million in STEM education 
programs. 
Our employees are avid volunteers in STEM education programs 
around the globe. We interact with students at our workplace and in 
the community, sharing our passion for STEM and inspiring youth to 
pursue careers in these areas. 
Textbook and software donations are another avenue for Lam’s 
education support. We donate core textbooks and design 
automation software to universities, increasing students’ 
accessibility to required class materials and leading-edge learning 
environments.
Quality of Life
Lam is committed to creating positive impact in communities 
around the world by contributing to local, national, and international 
organizations that support community issues such as hunger, food 
and water security, disadvantaged children and senior citizens, 
health improvement, and environmental protection. In addition to 
grants for social service needs, Lam supports regional disaster relief 
efforts through matching foundation giving for response, recovery, 
and rebuilding. Our 2019 quality of life grants surpassed $950,000.Employee Commitment
Our employees demonstrate commitment to community through 
active participation in volunteer activities and philanthropic 
events. Lam’s employee giving programs – gift matching, volunteer 
opportunities, donations for volunteer time, and employee-
sponsored grants – seek to amplify our employees’ impact as 
they contribute to the causes that employees care most about. 
Our employees increased their volunteer time this year by 18%, 
delivering 13,400 hours of service. Lam supported this activity in 
2019 with a 20% increase in matching gifts totaling $971,000.
Much of the year-over-year increase in 2019 community 
engagement and giving occurred in our international locations, 
aiding our impact on global communities. International volunteer 
time increased 109% and matching gifts from international 
employee donations increased 87%.Our Communities
Girls, Inc. Partnership
Lam expanded our relationship with Girls, Inc. from the regional to 
the U.S. national level in support of its mission to provide girls with 
skills and confidence needed to grow up healthy, educated, and 
independent. Our grant in 2019 supported Eureka!, a dynamic STEM 
program for 8th–12th grade girls. The experience includes an intensive 
summer program, as well as continuing education and skill-building 
during the school year. 
Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201946 Our Communities
Employees Engage in the Future of Our Local Communities  
Across the Globe
Bengaluru, India: Our India campus hosted 30 young adults 
from the Shri Sharada Vidya Mandira School in early February 
to energize and motivate students for the board exams that 
are instrumental to college admissions. A tour of a nearby 
science museum and a visit to the Lam campus provided 
students with insights into careers in STEM.
Hsinchu and Kaohsiung, Taiwan: For two years, Lam has 
collaborated with the National Science and Technology 
Museum in Hsinchu and Kaohsiung, Taiwan to inspire children’s 
imagination and cultivate their passion for coding. In June 
2019, Lam kicked off this Hour of Code series with a 
robot-themed event that afforded elementary students the 
opportunity to assemble and write programs.
Sagamihara, Japan: Our Japan office hosted a group of more 
than 40 children from the Sagamihara Minami Children’s Home 
at the Sagamiko Resort Pleasure Forest. Our employees spent 
time with the children to develop relationships and provide a 
day of fun. 
Seongnam, Korea: We partnered with ChildFund Korea to host 
the “Hello Coding Camp.” Students from Seongnam City’s 
Children Center gained hands-on experience with technology 
and other professional jobs at the Korea JobWorld and 
participated in a coding training program.Shanghai, China: Employees from Lam Shanghai Office worked 
with Angel’s Confidant Salon, an organization supporting 
children with ASD (Autism Spectrum Disorder). In addition to 
donating stationery and books, employees volunteered for the 
A-Coffee program, a non-profit cafeteria managed by Angel’s 
Confidant Salon, that provides children with ASD an 
opportunity to improve communication and social skills 
through interaction.
Silicon Valley, California: More than 400 employees in our 
Fremont and Livermore locations participated in the sixth 
annual Lam Research Heart & Soles Run. In collaboration with 
the Silicon Valley Leadership Group Foundation, the event 
supports programs that teach children good health and fitness 
habits, aiding their success in school.
Singapore: Lam employees and their families participated in 
the Children’s Society “Walk for Our Children” event, raising 
funds to help support 10 centers that provide critical services 
to children in need.
Tualatin, Oregon: Tualatin employees hosted hundreds of 
students from neighboring high schools for Manufacturing Day, 
a U.S. national industry event. Employees provided tours to 
students and shared insights and advice on career 
opportunities. 
Villach, Austria: Our Villach office organized a friendly charity 
floorball game to raise funds for the Special Olympics.
Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201947
Scholarships
Core Values Scholarship  
Lam recognizes the tremendous achievements of extraordinary 
graduating high school seniors through our Core Values Scholarship 
program. Our Core Values scholarship recipients maintain 
impressive academic records, exhibit leadership and community 
involvement, and consistently demonstrate Lam’s Core Values. 
In 2019, Lam distributed $105,000 to students in Oregon and 
California. Now in its 16th year, the scholarship program has awarded 
more than $1.1 million to 129 students.
Global Scholarships 
Lam also provides scholarships around the globe to promote 
education and career interests of talented youth who otherwise 
would not have the economic resources to pursue higher education. 
For example, through the Sankalp Scholarship Fund and Vidya 
Poshak Nurture Merit Program, Lam India employees work in 
partnership with former beneficiaries and non-profit partners to 
achieve this objective. Around the world, our scholarship program 
has supported more than 100 students. 
Scholarships for economically disadvantaged students can be life-
changing for them and their families. The need for support often 
goes beyond college tuition to include necessary living costs while 
students are attaining a degree. Lam is proud to support these 
students and help ensure that their potential is determined by their 
abilities and drive, not by their economic circumstances. “I used 
the scholarship for college admission and exam fees, for purchasing 
books and a bus ticket,” says Tejaswini, a 2019 Sankalp scholarship 
winner.Our Communities
Core Value Scholar: Maryam Karimi 
Lam Core Values: Achievement, Teamwork 
Standout Accomplishment: As an advocate for human rights, 
women’s rights, and children’s rights, she founded a non-
profit organization called Educate a Child for Change (ECCO) 
to support impoverished children in Afghanistan. “I value 
teamwork because it creates an atmosphere for innovation and 
productivity for the common good.” 
Inspire. Together Grant Program 
The Inspire. Together grant program allows our employees to 
identify needs in their local communities and helps Lam fulfill our 
mission globally. Any employee can nominate a non-profit 
organization that inspires them and submit a grant application 
for that organization. In 2019, 54 non-profit organizations 
received a total of $270,000 thanks to the insights and caring of 
our employees. Two such organizations include:
CityTeam in San Jose, California, received a $5,000 grant for its 
Learning and Career Center, which provides education, computer 
skills, job preparation and placement, housing support, and legal 
advocacy. This non-profit was nominated by Emilie Marino, 
technical program manager, who said, “This organization is 
important to me because it serves the people who truly need 
help in my community– the impoverished, hungry, and homeless. 
CityTeam not only helps people recover from hard times but also 
enables them to eventually support themselves. The lasting 
impact that CityTeam has on the people they help is what 
resonates with me the most.”
Wilsonville High School in Tualatin, Oregon, was nominated by 
Marshall Stowell, senior director, Engineering. The high school 
received a $5,000 grant for its robotics program which helps to 
generate interest in STEM studies and careers. The grant enabled 
a complete development of a computer aided manufacturing 
curriculum by funding equipment and prototyping materials. 
Marshall’s commitment is clear: “I have been a Wilsonville 
Robotics mentor for 15 years. It is great to be involved in things 
that involve students in STEM; demonstrably increasing science/
engineering motivated students and professionals.”
Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201948
Performance Summary Performance Summary
Performance Area 2019 YOY Change 2018 2017
Business and Governance
Number of full-time employees (Approximate) 10,750 -2% 10,950 10,200
Revenue1$9.7B -13% $11.1B $8.0B 
R&D spend (as percentage of operating expenses)1$1.2B (63%) 2% $1.2B (61%) $1.0B (61%)
Product and Customer
Total number of installed base chambers (Approximate) ~61,000 7% ~56,000 ~50,000
Workplace
Employee engagement score (tech sector benchmark 74) 74 n/a - -
Percent of employee population identifying as female (Global) 17.7% <4% 17% -
Percent of employee population identifying as female (U.S) 20.4% <5% 19.5% -
Total number of training courses 3,042 63% 1,86721,5342
Education reimbursement for employees $1.68M 24% $1.36M2$1.14M2
Employee retention rate 91% 1% 92% 95%
Average years of service 8.0 10% 7.3 7.32
OSHA recordable incident rate 0.33 14% 0.29 0.35
Risk Management by Walking Around (RMBWA) reviews 200,438 4% 191,822 132,320
Sustainble Operations
Energy consumption (Million kWh) 303 19% 254 229
GHG emissions scope 1 and 2 market-based (MTCO 2e) 111,479 22% 91,441 103,691
GHG emissions scopes 1 and 2 location-based (MTCO 2e) 112,768 22% 92,552 104,871
GHG emissions scope 3 (MTCO 2e) 23,055 -20% 28,968 45,203
Hazardous waste diversion 30% 7% 28% 17%
Non-hazardous waste diversion 55% -7% 59% 54%
Water usage (million gallons) 275 21% 228 197
Number of environmental fines 0 - 1 0
Community
Total giving by the Lam Research Foundation $3.4M -8% $3.7M $3.3M
Employee volunteer hours 13,400 18% 11,321 9,770
Employee matching gifts $971K 20% $811K $1.7M
Number of charity organizations supported 1,936 79% 1,154 1,400
1. All figures are for calendar year, with the exception of revenue and R&D spend which are presented on a fiscal year 
basis. 2017 is for the fiscal year ending June 25, 2017; 2018 is for the fiscal year ending June 24, 2018; 2019 is for the 
fiscal year ending June 30, 2019. M is defined as million and B is defined as billion.2. These data points do not reflect our Silfex Ohio operations.Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201949
About This Report 
Lam Research Corporation has published this corporate social 
responsibility (CSR) report to provide an overview of our company’s 
products, services, and operations related to environmental, social, 
and economic performance. This report covers calendar year 
2019, with some exceptions noted, including financial data that is 
Lam’s fiscal year 2019 (June 25, 2018–June 30, 2019). The report 
encompasses substantially  all wholly owned subsidiaries across the 
globe, although some data may be limited to particular geographies, 
which we note throughout the report. 
We self-declare that this report is in accordance with the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standard framework at the Core level. As 
required, a GRI Index at the end of this report shows our alignment 
with GRI reporting elements and our material topics. We intend to 
continue to report annually. Whenever possible, data also aligns 
with the Sustainability Accounting Standard Board (SASB) Standard 
for the Technology and Communications Sector: Semi-Conductor 
Industry.
 
We have noted any significant changes in scope and boundary 
throughout the report that may vary from our 2018 report, which 
was published in 2019. External assurance is limited to our financial 
data certified in our 2019 Annual Report on SEC Form 10-K. This CSR 
report has been reviewed by the Human Resources Compensation 
and Nominating and Governance committees of our Board of 
Directors and has been reviewed and approved by our president 
and CEO.About this ReportLam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201950
GRI Standard Disclosure Response, Page, or Link             
Organizational Profile
102-1 Name of the Organization Lam Research Corporation
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services CSR Report: Business and Governance - p 5 
 
For additional information: https://www.lamresearch.com/products/products-overview/
102-3 Location of headquarters CSR Report: Business and Governance - p 8
102-4 Location of operations Country locations: United States, China, Korea, Austria, India, Japan, Malaysia, Singapore, Taiwan, Belgium, 
France, Germany, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Switzerland, The Netherlands, United Kingdom.
102-5 Ownership and legal form The company’s stock is publicly traded on the Nasdaq under the symbol LRCX.
102-6 Markets served Lam Research is a trusted, collaborative partner to the world’s leading semiconductor companies.
102-7 Scale of the organization CSR Report: Business and Governance - p 8 
CSR Report: Our Workplace - p 22  
Total number of employees: 10,749
102-8 Information on employees and other workers CSR Report: Our Workplace - p 8, p 21 - 31
102-9 Supply chain CSR Report: Responsible Supply Chain - p 32 - 35
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain In 2019, Silfex (a wholly owned subsidiary of Lam) opened a new manufacturing facility in Springfield, Ohio.
102-12 External initiatives CSR Report: Business and Governance - p 11
102-13 Membership of associations CSR Report: Business and Governance - p 12 
 
CHWMEG , East Bay Foundation, Responsible Business Alliance, SEMI Manufacturing Ownership Diversity Task 
Force, and Silicon Valley Community Foundation, SEMI, Semiconductor Association, National Association of 
Manufacturers, Silicon Valley Leadership Group, Innovation Tri-Valley Leadership Group, Tualatin Chamber of 
Commerce
Strategy
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CSR Report: CEO Letter - p 3
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities CSR Report: Business and Governance - p 5 
Ethics and Integrity
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior CSR Report: Business and Governance - p 7
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics CSR Report: Business and Governance - p 13
Governance
102-18 Governance structure Proxy Statement 2019: Governance Matters - p 9 - 15GRI Index
The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Context Index is a tool to help stakeholders better access Lam Research’s environmental, social, and governance information.  This report has been prepared in accordance with 
the GRI Standards: Core option. This GRI content index meets reporting requirements. Whenever possible, data also aligns with the Sustainability Accounting Standard Board (SASB) Standard for the Technology and 
Communications Sector: Semi-Conductor Industry. SASB disclosures are indicated along with the GRI disclosures.Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201951
102-19 Delegating authority CSR Report: Business and Governance - p 5
102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics Vice President of Corporate Communications and Investor Relations
102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics CSR Report: Business and Governance - p 12
102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Proxy Statement 2019: Governance Matters - p 9 - 15
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Chairman of the Board 
102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Proxy Statement 2019: Governance Matters - p 9 - 15
102-25 Conflicts of interest Proxy Statement 2019: Governance Matters - p 13
102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy Under the Board’s oversight, our executive management sets the Company’s purpose, values and strategy.
102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Proxy Statement 2019: Governance Matters - p 9 - 15
102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance Proxy Statement 2019: Governance Matters - p 14
102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts CSR Report: Business and Governance - p 11
102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 10-K 2019: Risk Factors - p 7 - 24
102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics CSR Report: Business and Governance - p 11
102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting CSR Report: Business and Governance - p 9
102-33 Communicating critical concerns Critical concerns are elevated to the Board or committees under the Board by the executive management 
team.
102-35 Remuneration policies Proxy Statement 2019: Compensation Matters - p 23 - 46
102-36 Process for determining remuneration Proxy Statement 2019: Compensation Matters - p 23 - 46
102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration Proxy Statement 2019: Compensation Matters - p 23 - 46
102-38 Annual total compensation ratio Proxy Statement 2019: Compensation Matters - p 23 - 46
102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio Proxy Statement 2019: Compensation Matters - p 23 - 46
Stakeholder engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups CSR Report: Business and Governance - p 12
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements No collective bargaining agreements
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders CSR Report: Business and Governance - p 12
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement CSR Report: Business and Governance - p 12
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised CSR Report: Business and Governance - p 12
Reporting practice
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 10-K 2019: p 51
102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries CSR Report: About this Report - p 49
102-47 List of material topics CSR Report: Business and Governance - p 11Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201952
102-48 Restatements of information In 2006, Lam Research acquired Silfex Inc., the world’s largest provider of high purity custom silicon 
components and assemblies. We first included Silfex data in our reporting scope in our 2018 CSR report.   Per 
guidance in the GHG protocol, we recalculated our baselines for energy use and GHG emissions to include 
Silfex data in our 2019 CSR report. This resulted in a 31% increase in our overall scope 1 and 2 (market-based) 
emissions in 2012 from 65,387 MTCO2e to 85,881 MTCO2e. Along with a change in our 2012 renewable energy 
percentage from 15% to 12%. This also resulted in changes to some of our stated 2016 and 2017 data:
Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions - from 73,082 MTCO2e to 96,725 MTCO2e in 2016 and from 78,370 MTCO2e to 
103,691 MTCO2e in 2017
Water usage – from 161 million gallons (609,101 cubic meters) to 193 million gallons in 2016 and from 155 million 
gallons (586,870 cubic meters) to 197 million gallons in 2017.
Hazardous Waste Generation – from 933 metric tons to 1,286 metric tons in 2016 and from 1,219 metric tons to 
1,654 metric tons in 2017.
Hazardous Waste Diversion – from 18% to 13% in 2016 and from 23% to 17% in 2018.
Non-Hazardous Waste Generation – from 2,771 metric tons to 4,433 metric tons in 2016 and from 3,236 metric 
tons to 5,053 metric tons in 2017.
Non-Hazardous Waste Diversion – from 61% to 47% in 2016 and from 70% to 54% in 2017.  
Our 2018 Scope 3 data was revised from 34,565 to 28,968 MTCO2e due to a change in how air mile data are 
classified.
Our 2018 total water consumption data was revised from 191 million gallons (723,013 cubic meters) to 228 
million gallons due to an updated methodology in data tracking.  
Our 2018 non-hazardous waste diversion rate was revised from 57% to 59% due to additional recycling data 
provided by an external vendor.
Our renewable energy percentage in 2016 was revised from 17% to 16%. And our 2018 renewable energy 
percentage was revised from 16% to 37%, both due to changes in the availability of utility data.
102-49 Changes in reporting No changes in reporting.
102-50 Reporting period January 1, 2019 - December 31, 2019
102-51 Date of most recent report June 18, 2019
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report csr@lamresearch.com
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option.
102-55 GRI content index Yes. The GRI content index meets reporting requirements.
102-56 External assurance No. External assurance is limited to our financial data certified in our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
103 Management Approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary CSR Report: Business and Governance - p 5 - 14 
CSR Report: About this Report - p 49
103-2 The management approach and its components CSR Report: Business and Governance - p 5 - 14 
CSR Report: Products and Customers - p 15 
CSR Report: Our Workplace - p 21  
CSR Report: Responsible Supply Chain - p 32 
CSR Report: Sustainable Operations - p 36 
CSR Report: Our Communities - p 44 - 47Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201953
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach CSR Report: Business and Governance - p 5 - 14
Topic Specific Standards
201 Economic Performance
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed CSR Report: Business and Governance - p 7
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change CSR Report: Sustainable Operations - p 36 - 38
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 10-K 2019 - p 87
203 Indirect Economic Impact 
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts  CSR Report: Our Communities - p 44 - 47
205 Anti-Corruption
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures CSR Report: Business and Governance - p 13
206 Anti-Competitive Behavior
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 
 
SASB: TC-SC-520a.1 - Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated 
with anticompetitive 
behavior regulationsNo legal actions and $0 losses as a result of anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices.
207 Tax
207-4 Country-by-country reporting United Kingdom: https://investor.lamresearch.com/static-files/0cf7213b-ce40-493a-b0f1-9e6ed46ada7f
302  Energy
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 
 
SASB: TC-SC-130a.1 - (1) Total energy consumed, (2) percentage grid electricity, (3) percentage 
renewableCSR Report: Sustainable Operations - p 36 - 40
In 2019, 99% of our global electricity use was grid energy.
302-3 Energy intensity CSR Report: Sustainable Operations - p 36 - 38
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption CSR Report: Sustainable Operations - p 36 - 39
302 -5 Reduction in energy requirements of products and services CSR Report: Products and Customers - p 18 - 19
303 Water and Effluents
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 
 
SASB: TC-SC-140a.1 - (1) Total water withdrawnCSR Report: Sustainable Operations - p 42 -4 3
303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts CSR Report: Sustainable Operations - p 42 - 43
303-3 Water withdrawal CSR Report: Sustainable Operations - p 42 - 43
303-4 Water discharge CSR Report: Sustainable Operations - p 42 - 43
303-5 Water consumption CSR Report: Sustainable Operations - p 42 - 43
305  EmissionsLam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201954
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 
 
SASB: TC-SC-110a.1 - (1) Gross global Scope 1 emissions 
SASB: TC-SC-110a.2 - Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy or plan to manage Scope 1 
emissions, emissions reduction targets, and an analysis of performance against those targetsCSR Report: Sustainable Operations - p 40 - 41
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions CSR Report: Sustainable Operations - p 40 - 41
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions CSR Report: Sustainable Operations - p 40 - 41
305-4 GHG emissions intensity CSR Report: Sustainable Operations - p 40 - 41
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions CSR Report: Sustainable Operations - p 40 - 41
306 - Effluents and Waste
306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination CSR Report: Sustainable Operations - p 42 - 43
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 
 
SASB: TC-SC-150a.1: Amount of hazardous waste from manufacturing, percentage recycledCSR Report: Sustainable Operations - p 41 - 42 
Amount of hazardous waste from manufacturing: 2,100 metric tons 
% of hazardous waste from manufacturing recycled: 30%
306-3 Significant spills No signficant spills
306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff CSR Report: Sustainable Operations - p 42 - 43
307 Environmental Compliance
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations We had no notices of significant regulatory violations, lawsuits, or investigations arising from environmental 
matters.
308 Supplier Environmental Assessment
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Supplier environmental assessment created in 2019. To be deployed in 2020.
Conflict Minerals Policy Statement
Form SD
401 Employment
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover CSR Report: Workplace - p 22
403 Occupational Health and Safety
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 
 
SASB: TC-SC-320a.1 - Description of efforts to assess, monitor, and reduce exposure of employees 
to human health hazardsCSR Report: Workplace - p 31
403-3 Occupational health services CSR Report: Workplace - p 31
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and safety CSR Report: Workplace - p 31
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety CSR Report: Workplace - p 31
403-6 Promotion of worker health CSR Report: Workplace - p 31
403-9 Work-related injuries  
SASB: TC-SC-320a.2: Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated 
with employee health and safety violationsCSR Report: Workplace - p 31  
$0 in monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with employee healthy and safety violations.
404 Training and Education
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Average hours of training per employee: 4.5 hours
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs CSR Report: Workplace - p 28 -29Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201955
405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees CSR Report: Workplace - p 22, 24-25
407 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining
407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may 
be at riskCSR Report: Responsible Supply Chain - p 32-35 
Lam is not aware of any operations or major direct material suppliers’ rights in 2019, in which freedom of 
association and collective bargaining.
408 Child Labor
408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor CSR Report: Responsible Supply Chain - p 32-35 
No operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor in 2019.
Conflict Minerals Policy Statement
Form SD
California Transparency in Supply Chain Act of 2010 Compliance Statement
409 Forced or Compulsory Labor
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor CSR Report: Responsible Supply Chain - p 32-35 
No operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor in 2019.
Conflict Minerals Policy Statement
Form SD
California Transparency in Supply Chain Act of 2010 Compliance Statement
411 Rights of Indigenous Peoples
411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples No incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples.
412 Human Rights Assessment
412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments CSR Report: Responsible Supply Chain - p 32-35 
Slavery and Trafficking Risk Template implemented in 2019. 
412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures CSR Report: Responsible Supply Chain - p 32-35
412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that 
underwent human rights screeningCSR Report: Responsible Supply Chain - p 32-35 
Human rights clauses are included in terms and conditions for all new suppliers contracts.
413 Local Communities
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs CSR Report: p 44 - 47
414 Suppler Social Assessment
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria CSR Report: Responsible Supply Chain - p 31-34 
Slavery and Trafficking Risk Template implemented in 2019.
Conflict Minerals Policy Statement
Form SD
California Transparency in Supply Chain Act of 2010 Compliance Statement
415 Public Policy
415-1 Political contributions No financial and in-kind political contributions made directly and indirectly.
418 Customer Privacy
418-1 Substantiated complaints regarding concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of 
customer dataCSR Report: Business and Governance - p 14 
 
No substantiated complaints regarding concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data.Lam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201956
References
Annual Reports  
 
Code of Ethics
Community Relations
Corporate Social Responsibility  
 
Lam Research
Lam Research Global EHS Sustainability Commitment Policy 
Products  
Supply Chain Policies   
 
CREDITS  
Many employees supported the development of Lam’s CSR program 
and this reporting effort. We would like to thank them for their 
ongoing contributions as we continue to integrate CSR into our 
corporate culture. 
CONTACT INFORMATION  
If you have questions regarding this report  
or Lam’s CSR activities, please contact: 
CSR@lamresearch.com. ReferencesLam Research 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Report 2019
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201957
www.lamresearch.com
Lam Research Corporation
 4650 Cushing Parkway
Fremont, CA 94538
510.572.0200
Connect with us: