Act With 
Purpose for a 
Better World
2021 Environmental, Social, 
and Governance ReportContentsIntroduction
CEO message  ..................................................................... 2
About Lam Research  ...................................................... 3
Integrating ESG  ................................................................. 4
ESG goals  ............................................................................. 5
2021 ESG scores and recognition  ............................ 6
Business and governance
Highlights  ............................................................................... 8
ESG at Lam  ........................................................................... 9
Materiality  .............................................................................. 10
ESG governance  ................................................................ 11
Decarbonizing the world, together  ........................... 13
Ethics and compliance  .................................................... 15
Cyber, government affairs, and tax  .......................... 17
Product innovation
Highlights  ............................................................................... 19
Power of innovation .......................................................... 20
Focus on innovation  ......................................................... 21
Customer impact  ............................................................... 24
Collaboration  ...................................................................... 26
Sustainable operations
Highlights  ............................................................................... 30
Energy and climate  ........................................................... 31
Waste management  ......................................................... 34
Water management  .......................................................... 36
Employee engagement  ................................................... 37Our workplace
Highlights  ............................................................................... 39
Inclusion and diversity  .................................................... 40
Employee engagement  ................................................... 47
Benefits and well-being  ................................................. 48
Learning and talent development  ............................. 49
Employee health and safety  ......................................... 50
Responsible supply chain
Highlights  ............................................................................... 53
Supply chain ESG strategy  ........................................... 54
Supply chain management  ........................................... 55
Driving supplier environmental performance  ......57
Protecting human rights  ................................................ 58
Conflict minerals  ................................................................ 58
Supplier diversity  ............................................................... 59
Our communities
Highlights  ............................................................................... 61
Powering Breakthroughs Together  .......................... 62
Improving quality of life  .................................................. 63
Tomorrow’s technology leaders  ................................. 64
Employees giving back  ................................................... 65
Appendix
Performance summary  .................................................... 68
GRI index  ................................................................................ 69
SASB index  ........................................................................... 79
TCFD index  ............................................................................ 80
Assurance statement  ...................................................... 82
Cautionary statement  ..................................................... 88
Lam Research
| 1
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXUnleashing the power of innovation 
together for a better world
A message from our CEO
The nature of doing business has changed. Maintaining a leadership 
position has always meant producing leading edge products that 
solve our customers’ toughest problems and providing best-in-class 
service and support. Today, that is no longer enough. The impacts of 
big, global challenges like climate change and inclusion and diversity 
are much greater today than they have been in the past.
Climate change is having tangible impacts to businesses: Extreme 
weather events can cause operational disruption and the cost of 
energy, water, and waste is increasing. We are also faced with rapid 
industry growth, rising technological complexity, and a global talent 
shortage with a particularly large deficit in science, technology, 
engineering, and math (STEM) careers. Attracting and retaining 
the workforce of the future has never been more important, and it 
requires strategic investment in the right workplace policies and 
social and environmental programs.
Led by our Guiding Principle to act with purpose for a better world , 
we are reimagining what is possible for our future. Conserving finite 
resources, championing inclusion and diversity, and driving product 
sustainability efforts – simultaneous progress in all these areas is 
required to maintain leadership and strengthen the company.Our business model has evolved to reflect that ESG is now an 
imperative, and we are committed to progress. I am proud to say that in 
2021, for the first time, we were named to the North America Dow Jones 
Sustainability Index, which recognizes the top 20% of sustainability 
performers among the 500 largest companies in the U.S. and Canada.
We were among the first in the semiconductor industry to set a goal to 
reach net zero by 2050. In 2021, we took swift action to put a plan in 
place with a clear roadmap and strong governance and committed to 
setting a science-based target. We’re already making progress toward 
this goal, with our facilities in Ohio, US; Malaysia, China, and Austria 
operating on 100% renewable energy.
In keeping with integrating ESG into all that we do, we elevated Inclusion 
and Diversity to our Core Values, to formally reflect what we practice 
every day. We are rethinking philanthropic investments, recruiting tactics, 
and workplace practices to attract and retain the best people today and 
improve our STEM pipeline for the future. This includes a global, expanded 
parental leave program that puts Lam at the forefront of the industry, as 
well as a new On-Site and Flexible workplace policy designed to achieve 
our business goals, while supporting a better balance of how we live and 
where and when we work.
The stakes are high. Achieving net zero and creating a workforce 
representative of our population is a significant undertaking, on par with 
some of the biggest obstacles we’ve faced in semiconductor equipment 
manufacturing. At Lam, we have spent our first four decades, diligently 
solving the unsolvable - and we remain committed to proving what we 
believe is possible for a better and brighter future. We hope you’ll join us.
Tim Archer
President & Chief Executive OfficerLed by our Guiding Principle  to 
act with purpose for a better  world,  
we are reimagining what is 
possible for our future.
Lam Research
| 22021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXAt Lam, we drive semiconductor 
breakthroughs that define the 
next generation.Our customers are reaching new milestones of innovation with smaller and better-performing devices 
powered by ever-more-advanced microchips. And nearly every one of these chips is built with 
Lam technology. As a global supplier of innovative wafer fabrication equipment and services to the 
semiconductor industry, our technology is at the core of the world’s most exciting innovations. As we help 
transform the world with technology, we aspire to incorporate environmental, social, and governance (ESG) 
principles into everything we do. From our global operations, to our workplace practices, to how we source 
our materials and design our products, we act with purpose for a better world.
Lam Research around the world
We have 10 primary locations. 
This map highlights our headquarters, 
manufacturing, and lab locations.
Global employee distribution*
54.8%  United States
8.6%  South Korea
8.0%  India
7.2%  Southeast Asia6.5%  Taiwan
6.1% Europe
5.9%  China
2.9%  Japan
Global employee population
16,300+
*As of December 31, 2021. Sherwood, OR
Manufacturing site,  
opened in 2021Tualatin, OR
52-acre  
manufacturing and  
labs campus
Fremont, CA
Corporate 
heaadquarters, pilot 
manufacturing,  
and labs
Livermore, CA
2nd largest 
manufacturing  
siteEaton, OH
Silfex location, 
precision silicon 
component 
manufacturingSpringfield, OH
Silfex location, 
precision silicon 
component 
manufacturingVillach, Austria
Manufacturing site  
powered by 100% 
renewable energy
Gyeonggi-do,  
Korea
Home to both  
manufacturing and  
lab sites
Taoyuan City,  
Taiwan 
Lam acquired Talus 
in 2021, adding to our 
manufacturing  
footprint
Batu Kawan,  
Malaysia  
Largest manufacturing 
site globally, opened  
in 2021
Lam Research
| 32021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXWe aspire to integrate ESG 
into everything we do
In our workspaces  
and across our 
suppy chain
Inclusive culture
Our goal is to foster a diverse and equitable 
culture where every person feels valued, 
included, and empowered to achieve their 
full potential.Integrity
Our Ethics and Compliance program 
is rooted in our Core Values. We earn 
our customers’ trust by aiming to make 
everything we do reliable and accurate. We 
execute with the highest level of quality, 
integrity, and sound governance.
Responsibility
We approach our supply chain with  
the same focus on human rights, the  
environment, and diversity that we apply  
to our own business—and we work to hold 
our suppliers to these same standards.
Employee well-being
Our employees deliver success for Lam, and in return, we deliver the resources they 
need to thrive. We provide competitive benefits that foster professional and personal 
growth and well-being.Across our  
global operations
Net zero future
To contribute to a more sustainable world, 
we have established goals to operate on 
100 percent renewable energy by 2030 and 
become net zero by 2050.Sustainable operations
We are making progress toward our  
2025 sustainable operations goals in 
energy savings, water conservation, 
waste diversion, and greenhouse gas 
emissions reduction.Efficient products
We continually innovate to provide 
customers with sustainable solutions, like the 
Sense.i product family, which delivers energy 
reductions and uses less raw materials in its 
vertical, space-saving design.
In our collaborations
Strong communities
We invest in our communities to build a better  
world for generations to come.External engagements
Through academic and industry engagement, we align the global 
semiconductor technology community to accelerate innovation.
Lam Research
| 42021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXAchieving our ESG goals
Goals guide our focus and hold us accountable. That’s why we developed 19 goals across the six major pillars of our ESG program. We have worked hard to make 
progress against these goals, and we’re proud of how far we’ve come. We aim to achieve the majority of our ESG goals by 2025, unless otherwise stated.
Governance*
GOALGOAL STATUSSTATUS PROGRESS TO DATEPROGRESS TO DATE
Continue to expand our disclosure and 
alignment with industry-recognized 
frameworks and standards •Increased disclosure against 
Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
Product innovation*
GOALGOAL STATUSSTATUS PROGRESS TO DATEPROGRESS TO DATE
83% of customers by revenue set 
science-based targets •This goal was set in 2021 and 
progress will be reported in our 
2022 reportSustainable operations*
GOALGOAL STATUSSTATUS PROGRESS TO DATEPROGRESS TO DATE
Achieve net zero emissions by 2050 by 
meeting the following targets:
 -Achieve 100% renewable energy 
globally by 2030 •Sourced 54%  renewable 
energy globally in 2021
 -Reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 
(market-based) greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions 25% by 2025 and 46% by 
2030 from a 2019 baseline. Achieve net 
zero operations by 2040 •Achieved 9.5% reduction in 
Scope 1 and 2 (market-based) 
GHG emissions
 -Achieve 12 million kWh in total energy 
savings from a 2019 baseline •Achieved 4.7 million kWh in 
energy savings - 39% to goal
Achieve zero waste to landfill for 
hazardous waste •Diverted 99% from landfill  
in 2021
Achieve 17 million gallons of water savings 
(15%) in water-stressed regions from a 
2019 baseline •Saved 13.2 million gallons of 
water in water stressed regions 
- 79% to goal
Responsible supply chain*
GOALGOAL STATUSSTATUS PROGRESS TO DATEPROGRESS TO DATE
Achieve more than 90% compliance 
rate with our social and environmental 
expectations across our top-tier suppliers •Exceeded our goal with 92% 
supplier compliance in 2021
Engage with at least 50% of our top-tier 
suppliers on environmental sustainability 
opportunities •Exceeded our goal by engaging 
with 73% of top-tier suppliers in 
2021
Increase engagement with all suppliers 
on social and environmental topics 
through assessment, training, and 
capacity building •Undertook a variety of engagement 
activities such as one-on-one 
meetings, assigned trainings, and 
supplier events in 2021
80% of top direct suppliers by spend set 
science-based targets by 2025 and 95% 
by 2030 •This goal was set in 2021 and 
progress will be reported in our 
2022 reportWorkplace*
GOALGOAL STATUSSTATUS PROGRESS TO DATEPROGRESS TO DATE
Build on our high-performance 
culture with best-in-class employee 
engagement at the top-tier 
benchmark as measured by
our annual employee survey** •Achieved top 20% 
engagement in 2021
Maintain an OSHA recordable injury 
rate at or below 0.4*** •Realized recordable injury rate 
of 0.4 in 2021
Increase number of women and 
underrepresented employees  
across the company •Expanded proportion of 
women globally by 4.8% and 
underrepresented employee 
groups by 15.4% in 2021
Community*
GOALGOAL STATUSSTATUS PROGRESS TO DATEPROGRESS TO DATE
Determine key targets for  
larger-scale impact aligned to a  
new strategic focus •Goal achieved by launching 
strategic planning process to 
transform our philanthropic 
identity and targets
Implement measurement of 
outcomes for key program and  
large-scale grants •Not yet started
Increase annual unique employee 
participation rate from 10% to 30% •Reached 10% employee 
participation in 2021
Increase volunteer hours by 33% 
from 2019 baseline •Volunteer hours at 95% of 
2019 baseline due to COVID-19 
impact
*We aim to achieve goals by 2025, unless otherwise stated.
**Updated in 2021 to reflect change in methodology for measuring engagement benchmark.
***Updated in 2021 to clarify goal is at or below 0.4.
Lam Research
| 52021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIX2021 ESG scores and recognition
ESG RATINGS
 •Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI)—North America
 •CDP Climate Change Survey—B score
 •CDP Water Survey—B score
 •ISS QualityScore—Top rated in environment and governance
 •MSCI USA Semiconductors and Semiconductor Equipment 
Index—AA rating
 •Sustainalytics—14.7 low riskWORKPLACE AND COMMUNITY RECOGNITIONS
 •3D InCites—SemiSisterAward
 •American Heart Association—Gold Recognition
 •Forbes
 -Best Employers, Oregon, USA
 -World’s Top Female-Friendly Companies
 -World’s Best Employer
 -America’s Best Employer
 •Fortune Magazine—World’s Most Admired Companies
 •Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s 2021 Corporate Equality 
Index—100%
 •Fortune and Refinitiv—Measure Up Inclusion & Diversity Index
 •The Org—The Most Gender Diverse Executive Team
 •Taiwan’s Flu Prevention Alliance—Silver Award
 •United Negro College Fund (UNCF)—Corporation of the YearCORPORATE RECOGNITION
 •Institutional Investor—Top Ranking for Semiconductor 
industry by Sell-Side analysts for:
 -#1—ESG
 -#1—Investor Relations (IR) Team
 -#1—IR Professional (awarded to Ram Ganesh,  
managing director investor relations)
 -#2—IR Program
 -#2—Crisis Management
 -#3—Chief Executive Officer (awarded to Tim Archer)
Lam Research
| 62021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXBUSINESS AND  
GOVERNANCE
We build business 
resilience, customer 
trust, and long-term 
value through our 
ESG program.
Lam Research
| 7
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXWe are a company where potential is realized, and where the future of technology is defined. Our impact is exponential, 
going beyond what we do to what we enable—the continuous progress of society. That makes it our responsibility 
to ensure that everything we undertake—from sourcing and production to how we manage our business, to how we 
deliver for our customers—is executed with excellence.
To that end, we aspire to make ESG criteria part of everything we do. And when we consider the environmental and 
social impacts of our actions, we build business resilience and help raise the bar for our entire industry. We strive to 
exceed our customers’ expectations and launch cutting-edge products and technologies without compromising on our 
values or our responsibility. Amid ongoing change and continued, heightened demand for semiconductors in 2021, we 
are proud to have delivered with agility, compassion, and an unwavering commitment to ESG.
Contributing to the UN SDGs
We recognize the importance of the United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs). These goals play an important role in building a more equitable, inclusive, sustainable 
world. We have identified five SDGs as most relevant to Lam’s top material topics: #3 Good Health and Well-Being, 
#4 Quality Education, #8 Decent Work and Economic Growth, #10 Reduced Inequalities, and #13 Climate Action. In 
this report, we are proud to share how we’re contributing to these SDGs.Governance*
GOALGOAL STATUSSTATUS PROGRESS TO DATEPROGRESS TO DATE
Continue to expand our 
disclosure and alignment 
with industry-recognized 
frameworks and standards •Increased disclosure 
against Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD)
2021 highlights
 •Named on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for North 
America (DJSI North America) for the first time
 •Launched $1.5 billion sustainability-linked revolving credit 
facility to reinforce ESG goals
 •Established Ethics and Compliance Steering Committee
*We aim to achieve goal by 2025, unless otherwise stated.
Lam Research
| 82021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXESG at Lam: Delivering 
a positive impact
We put our business to work for a better world. Our ESG strategy, 
which provides a framework for our ESG investments and efforts, is 
composed of six key pillars reflective of the issues that matter most 
to our business and stakeholders.
From goal setting and regular progress assessments on material 
ESG topics, to investments in environmental and social responsibility 
initiatives, we actively involve our leadership in the efforts we put 
forward. Doing so ensures that we adopt ESG best practices to 
create a program that delivers value to all Lam stakeholders.
Being transparent about our ESG strategy and performance is a 
critical component in taking accountability and achieving our ESG 
goals. We continue to expand our disclosure and alignment with 
industry-recognized frameworks and standards and make measurable 
progress toward our ESG priorities in the short and long term.
Stacey MacNeil
chief communications  
officer and ESG  
executive sponsor
“Our holistic approach to ESG is key to 
providing a positive impact to the company 
and our world. Further integrating ESG 
into our operations — while managing 
ESG-related risks and opportunities — 
demonstrates our leadership  
and values.”
Doug Bettinger
executive vice president
and chief financial officer
“Lam’s new sustainability-linked credit facility 
is part of our overall management focus on 
financial performance while integrating ESG 
principles into day-to-day operations.  
We believe this will also add  
long-term value for 
Lam’s stakeholders.”
INNOVATION SPOTLIGHT
Giving ESG its credit: New financing structure links 
sustainability to our bottom line
Financial considerations shouldn’t hinder the pursuit of bold ESG 
goals—they should inspire them. That’s the vision behind our new 
financing structure consisting of a $1.5 billion, five-year sustainability-
linked line of credit, launched in May 2021. Over the credit facility term, 
Lam will receive a pricing adjustment if the company is above or below 
performance targets around annual energy savings and maintains our 
high standard of employee safety. This connection further promotes 
and engrains our ESG initiatives while providing access to potentially 
lower-cost financing.Act with purpose 
for a better world
OUR ESG MISSION:
We elevate human prosperity 
and protect the environment in 
our operations, supply chain,  
and the products we create.
Lam Research
| 92021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXMaking an impact where it matters most
We center our ESG strategy, investments, engagements, and reporting on the topics that reflect the most significant environmental, 
social, and economic impacts of our business and to our stakeholders. In this report, we refer to these as “material” topics1. To identify 
those topics, we conduct an ESG materiality assessment every three to five years, or when notable shifts happen in our business.
In our most recent assessment, conducted in 2018, we identified 13 material topics across six strategic pillars. These pillars provide the 
basis of our ESG strategy and priorities.
Strategic pillars Material topics
Business and governance
Integrate ESG into our business operations; foster 
ownership and accountability; set strategy and goals •Leadership participation in ESG
Products and customers
Innovate with ESG in mind; be a partner of choice 
for supporting our customers’ ESG goals; design for 
environment principles •New product pipeline
 •Product safety
 •Product compliance
 •Regulatory compliance and emerging regulations
Sustainable operations
Minimize our environmental impact through  
investments in energy, water, waste, and greenhouse  
gas emissions reductions •Energy efficiency
 •Greenhouse gas emissions
 •Waste and recycling
Our workplace
Build an inclusive, diverse, and engaged workplace  
while achieving top performance in health and safety •Employee wellness and professional growth
 •Health and safety
 •Inclusion and diversity
Responsible supply chain
Ensure an ethical and responsible business ecosystem 
focused on human rights and the environment •Supplier screening and managing negative impacts 
within the supply chain
Our communities
Be a responsible corporate citizen with programs focusing 
on transformative learning, resilient communities, and 
inclusive societies •Community engagement and charitable giving
1The identification of a topic or other matter as "material" for purposes of this report does not and should not be interpreted to mean that it is material for any other 
purpose, including for the purpose of our financial statements or the documents we file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Lam Research | 10
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXLeading with an ESG lens
Good governance—it’s the foundation of Lam’s business and critical to our success. This makes it 
imperative that the highest levels of our leadership are involved in our governance approach. Our 
leadership emphasizes financial performance while integrating ESG principles into day-to-day operations.
Given the breadth of ESG issues for a company of our size and reach, oversight of ESG issues occurs 
within our existing Board governance framework. Our CEO and members of the CEO staff participate in 
our ESG Executive Steering Committee. And members of our management team provide regular updates 
to the Board and its committees and engages them to discuss ESG strategy, gain alignment on goals, and 
report on progress.
In 2021, we formed a new net zero leadership team that is responsible for working with business units 
to integrate climate considerations into decision-making processes, driving progress on our net zero 
strategy, and tracking GHG performance on our climate goals.
Our Board believes that board diversity is important to serving the long-term interests of Lam’s stockholders. 
To underscore this, we adopted a change to Lam’s Corporate Governance Guidelines in 2021 that reflects 
the commitment of the Board’s Nominating and Governance Committee, when identifying potential 
director candidates outside the Company, to actively seeking out qualified candidates who reflect diverse 
backgrounds, skills and experiences. Under our current Corporate Governance Guidelines, diverse 
backgrounds are defined to include diversity of gender identity, LBGTQ+ identity, race, and ethnicity. We 
draw from this diverse pool from which Board nominees are chosen, and we instruct any third-party search 
firms retained for a related search to include such candidates for consideration. Learn more about inclusion 
and diversity at Lam in the Workplace  section of this report.Lam’s ESG governance structure and primary responsibilitiesOVERSIGHTLAM RESEARCH BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Overall ESG oversight
NOMINATING AND 
GOVERNANCE 
COMMITTEE
ESG prioritiesCOMPENSATION AND 
HUMAN RESOURCES 
COMMITTEE
Workforce-related issuesAUDIT  
COMMITTEE
Ethics and compliance and 
information securityMANAGEMENTESG EXECUTIVE STEERING COMMITTEE
Guides ESG strategy, approves and supports initiatives, drives accountability
ESG LEADERSHIP TEAM
Proposes goals, develops and  
executes strategy, and embeds ESG into 
operations management systemNET ZERO LEADERSHIP TEAM
Drives progress toward  
net zero goalIMPLEMENTATIONTOPIC-SPECIFIC WORKING GROUPS
Executes on key issues
Lam Research
| 112021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXEngaging our stakeholders
Through our materiality assessment and other activities, we 
engage with a diverse group of stakeholders around the world, 
including our employees and stockholders, the communities 
we work in, and the organizations that promote the sustainable 
growth of our industry. Their valued perspectives inform our 
ESG strategy and goals.
How we engage:
Community
 •Interactions through community 
collaborations and volunteerism
 •Participation in conferences and forums 
 •Philanthropic investmentsEmployees
 •All employee meetings
 •Employee resource groups
 •Employee surveys
 •Inclusion index
 •Performance and  
development discussions
 •Professional developmentPolicymakers
 •Direct engagement through our Global 
Government Affairs group
 •Trade organization participation 
such as the National Association 
of Manufacturers, SEMI, and the 
Semiconductor Industry AssociationSuppliers
 •Annual ESG supplier surveys
 •Annual Supplier Day (with  
Excellence Awards)
 •Monthly supplier scorecard reviews
 •Regular Supplier Town Halls
 •Strategic business reviews as needed
Customers
 •Customer Support Business  
Group interactions
 •Global Customer Operations 
engagement and support
 •Industry conferences
 •Regular business review meetingsIndustry organizations
 •Conference participation
 •Innovation collaborations
 •MembershipsStockholders
 •Annual meeting of stockholders
 •Participation in conferences and forums
 •Quarterly earnings conference calls
 •Regular calls and  
in-person meetings
Lam Research
| 122021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXDecarbonizing the  
world, together
Addressing climate change is one of the biggest challenges the world faces today, 
and we all have a role to play. Lam’s own R&D and manufacturing activities, and the 
manufacturing and transportation of goods in our supply chain, have climate impacts.  
So do our products when they are in use by our customers. Therefore, when we 
accelerate our own climate action, we help our customers do so, too.
We’re ready to prove it
When it comes to mitigating the impacts of climate change, time is of the essence. In 
2021, Lam announced a net zero goal to reduce GHG emissions along a science-based 
trajectory. Net zero is a climate action goal to balance the greenhouse gas emissions 
going into the atmosphere with the reduction and removal of gases from it. As we work 
toward this goal, we aim to enable our customers and suppliers to reach their own 
decarbonization goals, while supporting Lam’s cultural imperatives, corporate strategy, 
and business growth ambitions.
We’ve developed a net zero pathway that details how Lam’s business units, product 
teams, and supply chain vendors will contribute. Key milestones along our journey to net 
zero include:We plan to achieve our energy and climate goals by activating multiple 
strategies: investing in renewable energy and energy efficiency while 
working with our suppliers and customers to reduce upstream and 
downstream emissions . Supporting our progress will be several  
cross-cutting tools and practices:
 •Net zero governance and leadership support, including a net zero 
leadership team and cross-functional working groups
 •Funding mechanisms, which are embedded into Lam’s financial  
decision-making processes
 •Careful management of current and projected emissions data
 •Internal communications and employee engagement to help us  
build momentum
 •Standards and frameworks, such as SBTi and TCFD, that enhance  
Lam’s credibility among external stakeholders
 •Close collaboration with our customers and suppliers
Net zero roadmap
2021Announced 
science-based 
target (SBT) 
intention and net 
zero pathway
2025
 •Reduce Scope 1 and 2 (market-based) 
emissions by 25% from a 2019 baseline
 •Achieve 12 million kWh in total 
energy  savings
 •80% of top direct suppliers by spend 
set SBTs
 •83% of customers by revenue set SBTs2030 •Achieve 100% renewable energy
 •Reduce Scope 1 and 2 (market-based) 
emissions by 46% from a 2019 baseline
 •95% of top direct suppliers by spend 
set SBTs
2040
 •Achieve net zero operations 
(Scope 1 and 2)
 •Achieve absolute reduction 
in supply chain emissions 
(goal to be set in the future)2050Achieve net zero 
emissions
Lam Research
| 132021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXAssessing climate risk
Like all companies, Lam faces risks related to climate change. These risks include disruptions 
to our manufacturing facilities due to extreme weather events and laws and regulations 
imposed due to climate change concerns. In 2021, we worked with a third party to undertake 
a deeper analysis of the climate risks and opportunities that could have an impact on Lam.
These include:
Risks
 •Changing customer expectations
 •Competitors developing lower-impact 
products
 •Operational disruptions from flooding, 
natural hazards, rising temperatures, and/or 
water stress
 •Natural hazards leading to supply chain 
disruptions and/or preventing access to the 
operational workplace
 •Regulation of Lam’s direct operations, 
customer operations, and/or raw materials 
(e.g., carbon pricing)
 •Reputational impacts from poor 
performance on external climate-related 
engagements
 •Water stress impacting major  
customer operationsOpportunities
 •Expansion of end-use markets
 •Improving resilience of  
business operations through  
asset hardening
 •Operational footprint reduction
 •Reduced resource consumption  
of sold productsAs we learn more about the potential likelihood and impact of these risks, we will continue to share  
our management and mitigation efforts with stakeholders. The Appendix  to this report includes a full 
inventory of our disclosures to the TCFD, the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), and  
the Global Reporting Index (GRI). Our alignment with the following key TCFD categories is as follows:
TCFD CATEGORY ALIGNED PRACTICES AT LAM
Metrics and Targets 2025 and 2030 GHG reduction goals aligned with Science Based Targets 
Initiative (SBTi) methodology
Scope 3 emissions inventory to understand impacts in the value chain
2050 goal to achieve net zero across all emissions scopes, with interim goals for 
2030 and 2040
Risk Management Multiple leading enterprise risk management practices
Strong governance to manage and escalate risk to appropriate levels
Strategy Leadership involvement and oversight on ESG strategy
Governance Board-level ESG oversight
Regular ESG reports to the Board and the Nominating and Governance Committee
Net zero leadership team and cross-functional working groups
Annual net zero objectives integrated into corporate accountability systems  
and review
Reporting Consistent climate-related metrics reported to CDP and in our annual ESG Report
Lam Research
| 14
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXConducting business with integrity
Our business has thrived for more than 40 years by embracing innovation while 
remaining true to our Core Values. Our customers choose us because they trust our 
products, our people, and our performance. We aim to earn their trust by ensuring 
that what we do is reliable, accurate, and executed with a high level of quality, 
integrity, and sound governance.
Our Ethics and Compliance (E&C) program sets the standards and principles for 
how we do business. Our program is designed to meet evolving requirements and 
encompasses the following major areas: risk management, policies and procedures, 
training, communications, and investigations. Our chief compliance officer, who 
reports to the chief legal officer, with dotted-line reporting to the Chair of the Audit 
Committee of the Board, manages the E&C function and leads a global team. In 
2021, we formed an E&C Steering Committee to further strengthen our program. 
This Committee provides operational guidance on our E&C program and promotes 
an ethical and compliant culture throughout the organization by supporting the E&C 
function in achieving its program requirements.
Protecting and enhancing our culture promotes an ethical working environment 
for our employees. Last year we launched a global ethics culture employee survey 
to identify and measure strengths and areas of opportunity. The survey results, 
which were communicated at an all-employee meeting, will be used to prioritize 
enhancements to our program.Our Core Values
Our culture is built on our Core Values.
Achievement Honesty  
and integrity
Innovation and continuous 
improvementMutual trust  
and respect
Open  
communicationOwnership  
and accountabilityTeamworkThese values underpin our commitments 
to sustainable growth and to working together for a better world. In 2021, we 
added two new core values: Agility and Inclusion and diversity.
Kelley Kinney
senior director, ethics  
and compliance
“When faced with a challenging situation at 
work, our employees ask themselves not just 
the foundational question of whether the law 
and our policies permit the activity, but  
also whether the conduct is ethical  
and consistent with our  
Core Values.”
Lam Research
| 152021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXRisk management
Our dedication to continuous improvement means we assess internal and external risks, 
refine our programs, and adjust our goals. As we operate globally and continue to grow, 
we are exposed to a changing regulatory landscape, as well as bribery and corruption 
challenges, which make enhancing our risk management program a priority.
We take a risk-based approach to due diligence and we have strengthened our third-party 
risk management through our compliance questionnaire and Supplier Code of Conduct.
Policies and procedures
It’s not just what we do, but how we do it that matters. Our employees are dedicated to 
a values-driven culture. To reinforce this, we created our Global Standards of Business 
Conduct (GSBC), which outline expectations for ethical workplace behavior.
The GSBC address various issues such as: protecting confidential information, prohibiting 
bribery and corruption, and giving or receiving gifts, meals, travel, and entertainment. They 
also cover workplace conduct issues such as harassment, discrimination, and conflicts of 
interest created by relationships. We regularly review and update our GSBC so that they 
remain relevant to our business. Additional policies and procedures provide further guidance 
on specific ethics and compliance areas, including:
 •Anti-bribery and corruption
 •Anti-harassment
 •Conflicts of interest
 •Conflicts of interest created by relationships
 •Gifts, meals, travel, and entertainment
 •Insider trading
 •Reporting Concerns
Training
We are focused on training our employees to ensure they are empowered to make ethical 
decisions. Employees are required to complete an annual online training course that 
reinforces their understanding of selected topics covered by the GSBC. We exceeded 
99% completion rate* for this training. We also deliver targeted training sessions to further 
increase awareness of our policies and processes. In 2021, E&C delivered more than 50 
virtual training sessions to leadership teams, new hires, and employees whose role and/or 
location put them at higher risk.
Communications
We work diligently to communicate practical guidance and lessons learned from 
investigations with all employees. In 2021, we held “Ask Me Anything” sessions with our chief 
compliance officer. We also distributed four compliance bulletins providing guidance on our 
policies and specific risk areas, so our employees have the tools and knowledge to make 
ethical decisions.Investigations 
At Lam, employees have the right and responsibility to raise concerns to their managers, senior 
management, human resources, and E&C. Employees and third parties, including contractors, 
suppliers, and customers can make a report by phone or through the web by using our Ethics Helpline.
The Ethics Helpline is operated by an independent third party and is available to anyone who wants to 
ask a question about, or report potential violations of the GSBC, other policies, regulations or laws. It is 
accessible through both our external and internal websites, and interpreters covering over 75 foreign 
languages are available for phone submissions. Concerns may be reported anonymously, where 
allowed by law, and all reports are treated confidentially. Our Reporting Concerns Policy provides 
guidance to employees on raising concerns on a variety of issues, including financial concerns.
E&C investigates allegations involving alleged kickbacks, bribery, trade secret theft, insider trading, 
conflicts of interest, corporate card and expense abuse, among other issues. In 2021, our E&C team 
shared with employees its investigations reporting data for 2021, including trends compared to 
2020, report volume, claim types, anonymous reporting rate, the substantiation rate at which E&C 
concluded a violation occurred, and aggregated corrective action taken for substantiated cases.Over
99%   
of our employees completed 
our 2021 GSBC training*
*Employee completion rate was calculated by excluding: 1) employees who were on leave of absence during the reporting period; or 2) employees who left the company during the 
reporting period before completing the training.  The reporting period was from November 2021 to March 2022.
Lam Research
| 16
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXProtecting data and intellectual property
Safeguarding our corporate, employee, customer, and supplier data is a top priority 
for us. It is essential to maintaining our business and retaining stakeholder trust. 
Our global information security strategy proactively evolves in real time to address 
emerging threats, minimize cybersecurity risk, and incorporate the latest best 
practices and technologies. In 2021, we continued to expand and strengthen our 
information security program with a focus on protecting Lam’s intellectual property.
Our program is led by our chief information security officer, who reports on a 
regular basis to the Audit Committee and the full Board. To continually improve 
our program, we collaborate with world-class industry peers and global security 
researchers, and hold International Standards Organization (ISO) 27001 
certifications for information security for nine sites. In addition, we screen suppliers 
for information security controls that protect our information as well as that of our 
suppliers.
Employees also play a critical role in preserving information security. We educate 
employees on cyber threats, and all employees participate in mandatory information 
security and privacy training each year. We also conduct periodic tests of random 
user populations to determine which users are vulnerable to real attacks and 
reinforce security awareness training. In 2021, we did not experience any cyber 
incidents that resulted in a material adverse effect, nor any losses or breaches of 
customer data that resulted in a material adverse effect.
Pillars of our information security program
PRODUCT SECURITY AND ENGINEERING  
focused on driving enhanced security in products and  
applications development
GOVERNANCE, RISK AND COMPLIANCE,  
AND IDENTITY ACCESS MANAGEMENT   
focused on risk management, compliance, and identity 
governance for internal/external users and access control
SECURITY OPERATIONS CENTER  
responsible for detecting, analyzing, and responding to 
potential cybersecurity threatsGovernment affairs
Sound public policy is imperative to fulfilling our mission to drive breakthroughs that 
define the next generation. We pursue a collaborative approach to policy engagement, 
working alongside our industry, supplier, and customer stakeholders to advocate for our 
priorities at the local, state, and federal levels. We work to engage the policy process 
in the areas of taxes, trade, export control policy, research and development, business 
operations, and other areas key to our business strategy. This engagement is critical to 
ensure that the interests of our customers, employees, and stockholders are properly 
represented at all levels of government.
Our Global Government Affairs (GGA) group, led by our vice president of GGA, directs 
these efforts. Our lobbying and political activities are governed by our Global Standards 
of Business Conduct, and our Political Activity and Government Affairs Policy. As a 
matter of company policy, Lam makes no direct political contributions of any kind to 
political parties or candidates, nor does Lam engage in indirect political spending, such 
as through its supply chain, consultants, or third-party political organizations such as 
501(c)(4) entities. We remain active in various business and trade associations that 
align with our company imperatives, such as the National Association of Manufacturers, 
SEMI, and the Semiconductor Industry Association. Some portion of our trade 
association dues may be used, by the associations, for political advocacy efforts. Lam 
Research does not engage in undisclosed political spending, such as contributions 
above the cost of our membership dues to trade or business associations for political 
activities. For more details, please refer to our Public Policy Engagement and Political  
Activity statement  located in the Corporate Governance section of our website.
Global taxation
For all types of taxes, our approach is to consistently comply with legal, regulatory, 
and internal control requirements while supporting our business and commercial 
strategy. Our approach to global taxation is intended to ensure we:
 •Adhere to all applicable global tax laws, filings, and reporting disclosures
 •Account for tax risks in accordance with the applicable accounting standards and 
have internal controls in place over our tax reporting processes
 •Align our transfer pricing policies with the guidelines of the Organisation of 
Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), as well as with all of the 
jurisdictions in which we operate
 •Apply the arm’s length principle when conducting intercompany transactions
We have a network of internal and external tax and finance professionals who are 
knowledgeable in various direct and indirect taxes and who monitor ongoing tax law 
and business changes, so that we may adapt processes and deliverables accordingly. 
This network, along with our framework regarding internal policies and controls, 
seeks to ensure the complete and accurate communication of tax positions and risks 
through established governance and reporting processes to our management and 
Board of Directors.
Lam Research
| 172021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXPRODUCT  
INNOVATION
We enable our 
customers to reach 
new heights.
Lam Research
| 18
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXIn a market that demands ongoing innovation, big ideas are priceless. From initial 
product design to installation, we positively impact worldwide technology development 
by thinking critically, challenging assumptions, and defying conventions. In turn, we 
help our customers achieve what was once thought impossible.
We develop products and solutions with the belief that business success includes 
making a positive impact on society and the planet. For us, that means that 
environmental impact and social responsibility inform our product design and 
research and development, and that we accelerate innovation through collaboration. 
In 2021, we continued to deliver smarter and faster solutions that increase value, 
lower environmental impact, enhance product safety, and extend product life.
When it comes to sustainable product performance, our net zero strategy pushes 
us even further. Through it, we intend to accelerate the integration of environmental 
considerations into the design, manufacturing, delivery, and performance of our 
products to help us meet our carbon reduction goals.RELEVANT SDGSProduct innovation*
GOALGOAL STATUSSTATUS PROGRESS TO DATEPROGRESS TO DATE
83% of customers by revenue 
set science-based targets •This goal was set in 2021 and 
progress will be reported in 
our 2022 report
2021 highlights
 •Funded research collaborations at 23 universities in five countries 
through our Unlock Ideas program
 •Launched the Elevate Ideas program to accelerate product innovation
 •Hosted our Engineering & Technology Conference Virtual Experience 
for more than 1,200 Lam technical community members
*We aim to achieve goal by 2025, unless otherwise stated.
In 2021, we continued to deliver smarter 
and faster solutions that increase value, 
lower environmental impact, enhance 
product safety, and extend product life.
Lam Research
| 19
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXUnleashing the power of innovation 
together for a better world
What we do
Lam products and services are a catalyst for progress. We enable:
Computers and phones  
that connect usSmart cities that 
operate efficiently and 
improve quality of lifeEnergy efficient cloud 
computing servers
Electric vehicles that support 
the transition to cleaner, 
renewable energy sourcesCritical medical devices and 
technologies that save livesHow we do it
Our vast range of products 
and solutions include:
Deposition
Metal Films
Dielectric Films
Film Treatment
Strip & Clean
Wet Clean
Dry Plasma Clean
Customer Support
Service
Spares
Upgrades
Reliant Systems™
TrainingEtch
Conductor Etch
Dielectric Etch
Through-Silicon Via (TSV) Etch
Selective Etch
Advanced Equipment 
and Process Control
Mass Metrology
Integration Modeling Software
Lam Research
| 20
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXWe focus on innovation
We drive semiconductor breakthroughs that define the next generation. In relentless pursuit of 
this mission, we continuously innovate and connect technologies—artificial intelligence, smart 
manufacturing, big data, and others—to power more productive, responsive, and connected 
devices and solutions. We hold ourselves to the highest standards and reliability so that 
when we do what’s never been done, we don’t stop until we ensure success is achievable and 
repeatable at scale.
Inspiring an innovation culture
There’s no innovation without experimentation, and breakthroughs aren’t often achieved alone. 
When we innovate, we drive value, for ourselves and for our customers. We achieve this through:
 •Significant investments in R&D
 •A culture that embraces innovation and teamwork
 •Programs and initiatives designed to inspire new ideas and ways of working
 •Close, strategic collaborations with our customers, universities, and other stakeholders
In 2021, we launched a campaign to celebrate our employees’ innovation successes  
and show that innovation is everyone’s business. This campaign featured 35 stories  
that included 71 Lam employees from around the world. Select stories are featured as
“Innovation Spotlights” within this report.Annual R&D spend
19%  increase from 
FY20 to FY21
$0$300,000$600,000$900,000$1,200,000$1,500,000
 $1,191,320
FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 $1,252,412$1,493,408USD (in thousands)
Fiscal year
Note: Unless noted as fiscal year (FY), all the data in this report refers to the calendar year.
Lam Research
| 21
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXWith each industrial 
revolution, the rate of 
change has increased. 
At Lam, we don’t just 
witness this speed: 
we enable it.Enabling Industry 4.0
Industry 4.0 (i4.0) is a new phase in the industrial revolution that focuses heavily 
on interconnectivity, automation, machine learning, and real-time data. Even 
more so than the previous revolutions, i4.0 is transforming the way people live 
and work. Industries ranging from medicine to transportation to agriculture are 
reaping the benefits of machine intelligence.
To continue this transformation, the semiconductor industry must rapidly innovate. 
We need to move faster to design equipment, develop processes, and increase 
production yields. Lam is meeting these imperatives. Our i4.0 Steering Committee, 
led by our chief technology officer (CTO) and leaders across our business, 
guides the implementation of i4.0 across Lam. The committee focuses on strategic 
initiatives involving the connectivity of data, optimized workflows across the 
entire supply chain, human-machine interfaces, and intelligent systems that will 
create more time for people to focus on innovation.
Higher productivity, lower footprint
We strive to be the partner of choice for supporting our 
customers’ ESG goals. Two recent innovations that deliver on this 
objective include Dry Resist and the Sense.i product family.
 •Dry Resist  uses dry photoresist technology to deliver 
significant improvement in extreme ultraviolet (EUV) 
lithography resolution, productivity, and yield. By using  
five to ten times fewer chemicals and half as much energy  
to create the same result, Dry Resist saves resources and 
costs customers less.
 •The Sense.i™ product family increases energy efficiency by 
enabling customers to reduce the radio frequency power 
used by 10% to 20% for each wafer etched. Using less 
material is also significant: with new design and advanced 
manufacturing approaches, we eliminate 15,000 pounds of 
aluminum raw material per Sense.i™ tool, the equivalent of 
1.5 million pounds of aluminum per year. Its vertical design 
results in less space per tool within a fab, creating the 
potential for a smaller factory footprint.
INNOVATION SPOTLIGHT
Bundle up: Redesigned cables streamline a tedious task
While attending a training at our Tualatin, Oregon facility, Lohith Shetty—a mechanical 
designer from Lam India—noticed process module cables being installed one-by-one. 
Deciding that time-consuming task needed an upgrade, he developed a prototype of 
a new cable bundling tool. Used during the design process, the tool groups cables by 
routing path and signal while preparing them for manufacturers. Lam teams receive the 
bundles ready to install, cutting time by 40 percent while improving accuracy.
Lam Research
| 22
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXVahid Vahedi
senior vice president 
and general manager 
etch business unit
“We believe there is a lot to uncover at the 
intersection of innovation and product 
sustainability. We actively collaborate with our 
customers to identify the high value opportunities 
that reduce the environmental impact of 
our tools and support a more  
sustainable semiconductor  
industry.”Sustainability drives product innovation
Our ambition to drive breakthroughs comes to life with our net zero goals. We see the 
transition to a net zero economy as an opportunity to mitigate the worst impacts of climate 
change while spurring product innovation and creating competitive advantage for Lam, and 
most importantly generating new value for our customers.
Critical to achieving this vision is designing our products with climate action in mind. At  
62%, the majority of our total greenhouse gas (GHG) footprint lies in the product-use phase, 
so further integrating energy efficiencies and carbon reductions into product design and 
engineering processes while building on previous green accomplishments is critical.
Currently, our approach to reducing energy use is twofold: productivity improvements (reducing 
the amount of energy consumed in making each wafer) and pure energy savings (building 
our equipment with more energy-efficient heaters, radio frequency power sources, and 
other components). In 2021, we introduced new and also improved etch products to deliver:
 •Up to 15% improved generator efficiency on several toolsets for NAND and  
foundry logic
 •30% to 50% improved clean times via chamber modifications
 •Up to 80% decreased tool usages of helium
Since 2015, we have also achieved a cumulative reduction in energy use of approximately 
35% in multiple deposition product lines and a 25% reduction for our EOS® wet clean 
product lines. Our deposition products have environmental features offering up to 9% 
energy reduction by adding Eco pump and scrubber modes, optimizing exhaust flows, and 
adding more efficient chiller options.The product path to net zero
Lam’s Product Innovation Working Group is developing a net zero roadmap to achieve 
meaningful energy and GHG emissions reductions while meeting business growth 
objectives. To inform this roadmap and prioritize top emissions and consumption areas, we 
are currently conducting a data baseline and assessment of environmental and ESG-related 
elements in current product designs. In conjunction to establishing our technical roadmap to 
reach net zero, we also intend to engage with our customers on their own emissions reduction 
journeys. To that end, we are aiming for 83% of our customers by revenue to set a science-
based target by 2025. Read more about Lam’s decarbonization efforts and path to net zero 
in Business and Governance .
Designing with the planet in mind
We have begun to explore Design for Environment (DfE) and lifecycle assessment 
methodologies to reduce the environmental impact of our products. In 2021, we 
conducted a series of workshops focused on:
 •Equipping Lam product designers with the knowledge to discuss the environmental  
impact of specific products
 •Developing a methodology and tools to quantify environmental improvements and to 
evaluate past and future product design changes
 •Creating a repeatable environmental impact framework for use on future products
In the future, our product teams will leverage the findings of these workshops as we  
refine existing products and design new ones.
Leading product safety in our industry
Our product safety engineers ensure that the products and services we deliver are safe for 
their intended use and meet regulations and standards in the markets we serve.
We also advance product safety best practices in our industry through collaboration with 
customers and industry peers. Lam helps lead the SEMI Equipment Suppliers group to 
address new product regulations impacting the industry. For over 20 years, Lam has worked 
with stakeholders to develop, implement, and continuously improve the SEMI EHS Guidelines 
for Semiconductor Manufacturing Equipment. These standards are broadly used across 
the semiconductor industry and other industries to minimize hazards related to equipment, 
facilities, and work environments.
Lam Research
| 23
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXDelivering customer impact
Our customers include leading semiconductor memory, logic, and specialty technology chipmakers. Together, we prove that 
devices with ever-greater performance are possible. We aren’t satisfied with good enough. We hold ourselves to the highest 
reliability and quality standards. And we continuously improve to build a competitive edge.
Our commitment to quality
At Lam, we embrace quality. We don’t aim to just meet customer requirements; we strive to exceed their highest expectations. 
Our Quality Leadership Team, a cross-functional senior management team, drives our design teams to ensure that safety 
and quality are designed into every product, and that we react quickly for needed improvements to existing products. We are 
committed to deliver quality through systematic and continuous improvement of our processes. We are also certified under  
ISO 9001, an international standard that provides a framework for an effective quality management system.By the end of 2021, our installed 
base was approximately  
75,000  
chambers with a dedicated 
service team to maintain those 
tools for maximum productivity.
Elements of our Customer Support Business Group 
(CSBG) strategy
SERVICE
Customized service and software solutions that enhance productivity 
throughout the product lifecycle.
SPARES
High-quality, low-defect consumable and non-consumable spare parts 
designed to balance performance, availability, and cost of operation.
UPGRADES
Technology and productivity upgrades that increase productivity, 
reliability, and efficiency and reduce lifecycle costs.
RELIANTTM SYSTEMS
High-performance new and refurbished tools at 200 mm and 300 mm 
that allow customers to extend the productive life of fabs, increasing 
production capacity while decreasing waste.
TRAINING
Technical training that develops customer knowledge and technical 
expertise through expert instruction and training courses for both 
hardware and software.
Lam Research
| 24
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXEnabling customer success
To help our customers succeed, we must meet their needs today while anticipating what they’ll need tomorrow. CSBG provides 
solutions throughout the equipment lifecycle that help customers improve productivity and get the most out of their capital 
investments. Enabling customers to extend the life of their existing equipment is an important aspect of the CSBG strategy. We 
do this by offering spares, upgrades, and product refurbishment, as well as Advanced Services that combine tool data, software, 
and expertise to help optimize tools beyond the process results they deliver.
Extending the value of our products
Enhanced productivity. Extended product lifetimes. Our customers expect it, and we deliver. CSBG provides refurbished 
previous-generation equipment for applications that do not require the most advanced wafer processing capability, avoiding the 
environmental impacts of manufacturing a new tool.
Our spares offerings include the reuse of high-value spare parts such as electrostatic chucks, RF hardware, and showerheads 
through a variety of re-cleaning, repair, refurbishment, and re-coating services. Parts lifetime extension, enabled by re-cleaning 
services, translates to approximately $400 million of reduction in materials consumption per year. Parts reuse enabled by repair 
and refurbishment services translates to approximately $150 million of reduction in materials consumption per year.
Achieving faster technology transitions with Equipment Intelligence™
Customer demand for increasingly faster cycles of learning and lower cost of development and production are accelerating the 
adoption of i4.0 in semiconductor manufacturing. We address these demands through our Equipment Intelligence™ solutions. 
Equipment Intelligence™ uses machine learning, artificial intelligence, and big data, combined with our equipment and process 
expertise, to deliver improved productivity, efficiency, and performance for our customers, all while using fewer resources and 
generating less waste.
Enabling next-generation technologies with additive manufacturing
We leverage additive manufacturing (AM) as an innovation driver to enable our customers to build smaller, faster, more powerful, 
and power-efficient electronic devices for everyday use. AM aligns with our mission to continuously seek new technologies that 
push the limits of product design and manufacturing by allowing us to transition the production of parts typically manufactured 
by subtractive methods, to higher performing, innovative designs.
Continuously improving product performance
CorvusTM technology, available on our etch products, is a great example of technology innovation to 
reduce our products’ environmental footprint inside the customer fab. Corvus automates maintenance 
so that manual intervention is only needed yearly rather than weekly or monthly. At each of those 
maintenance events, parts are cleaned using a variety of chemicals and acids to restore the chamber 
to a pristine condition. Many of those parts are sent offsite to special facilities for cleaning. By using 
innovation to extend the productivity of our etch chambers, Corvus is a technology that allows our 
customers to achieve a 66% reduction in yearly chemical usage related to system maintenance.
Lam Research
| 25
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXGoing further together
Complexity excites us. Collaboration drives us. Lam’s Tech Vision is to develop solutions for grand 
challenges. Collaboration across the global technical community helps make that vision possible.
Technology  Vision
ACCELERA TE
INNO VATIONDISCO VER
TOGETHERREALIZE
OPPOR TUNITY
Our Tech Vision approach has two components:
 •Educational opportunities and events that embolden our technical community to share 
knowledge, collaborate, and spark new ideas
 •Internal and open innovation programs that leverage external collaborations—enabling better 
solutions and faster cycles of learning  
In 2021, most of our traditionally in-person events were held virtually due to the ongoing 
COVID-19 pandemic. While we missed being together in person, virtual formats enabled us to 
increase the participation size and global reach of our events.
Engaging with universities around the world
In the pursuit of proving what’s next, we need the strongest and smartest on our side. So when it 
comes to defining the future of technology, our collaborations with global universities play a critical 
role. We invest in a variety of university research projects to accelerate innovation and provide us 
with a pipeline of highly skilled talent. Additionally, our university engagements include capstone 
project sponsorships, scholarships, fellowships, thesis awards, scholarly competitions, events, and 
membership in research consortia.Unlock Ideas
All breakthroughs begin with an idea. Since 2015, our Unlock Ideas program 
has supported the testing of novel ideas through an annual call for research 
proposals that address challenges in the semiconductor industry. Through this 
program, the Lam global technical community and university faculty collaborate 
to submit proposals for the opportunity to receive a monetary donation to test 
and advance those ideas, which can relate to technologies across software 
and controls, subsystems, automation and robotics, process and materials, 
productivity, and sustainability. The annual Unlock Ideas and Elevate Ideas 
programs accounted for approximately 20% of Lam’s academic research funding 
in 2021. Unlock Ideas initiated 161 proposals funded by more than $4 million in 
awards over the past seven years. In 2021, Unlock Ideas funded research at  
23 universities in five countries led by employees across five Lam offices globally.
In the spirit of collaboration and shared insights, we hosted our University 
Collaboration Showcase in August 2021 to share outcomes of 2020 Unlock Ideas 
projects with our global technical community and give employees the opportunity 
to learn from our academic research collaborations. Further building on the 
program, we hosted our inaugural Unlock Ideas Showcase in November 2021. 
The virtual event featured a panel discussion on Lam’s collaboration on research 
projects with universities in Korea and was followed by a session on career 
opportunities at Lam Korea. We also piloted the Elevate Ideas program to bridge 
the gap between Unlock Ideas feasibility and product group development. Elevate 
Ideas provides an opportunity for continued funding of successful projects that 
show promise in accelerating innovation in the semiconductor industry.61
university collaborations 
across 15 countries
John Chen
director of technology,  
Silfex
“Unlock Ideas gives Silfex employees 
the opportunity to try disruptive
ideas, learn from one another 
and think deeper about complex 
challenges and solutions.”
Lam Research
| 26
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXStories can inspire 
innovation in work 
and in life, so we hold 
a regular company-
wide Innovation 
Book Series with 
virtual and regional 
group discussions.
At the forefront with industry collaborations and events that inspire
Open innovation and collaboration can deliver big rewards, so we engage with our industry 
peers and external experts through a variety of events and programs throughout the year. We 
also host several innovation programs and events that encourage our employees to connect, 
learn, innovate, and be inspired.
Innovation and technical seminars
Our Seminar Series, sponsored by the Office of the CTO, is an opportunity for our engineering 
community to share work with peers. In 2021, we hosted 46 technical seminars attended by 
7,400 participants.
Through our Innovation Speaker Series, we invite distinguished thought leaders to present 
their latest ideas and findings. Our 2021 Innovation Speaker Series featured:
 •A discussion between Pedro David Espinoza, author of Differences That Make a Difference: 
How Organizations Succeed by Focusing on Innovation through Inclusion , and Lubab 
Sheet-Davis, vice president of strategy and innovation at Lam, on how diversity fuels 
innovation
 •A roundtable focused on how chip startups are innovating in memory and compute to enable 
artificial intelligence with CEOs from three Lam Capital portfolio startups
 •A keynote by Shellye Archambeau, author of Unapologetically Ambitious: Take Risks,  
Break Barriers, and Create Success on Your Own Terms , on taking risks and failing fast  
Tech Scouting
Our Tech Scouting open innovation program identifies and co-develops technologies with 
third parties to drive innovation and growth, further enabling our product groups to deliver 
the highest-quality, highest-performing products. Tech Scouting focuses on prioritized 
technology needs from our business units, aligned with our Tech Vision. Tech Scouting  
remains an important part of our innovation strategy to leverage technologies outside of  
the semiconductor industry for speed to solution and competitive differentiation.Startup Pitch Competition
Technology and innovation play an important role in creating a more 
sustainable economy, which is why in 2021 Lam Capital teamed up with eight 
other SEMI member companies to seek out and support innovative startups to 
help solve our industry’s sustainability challenges faster, with a focus on:
 •Energy efficiency  at tool, manufacturing process, and supply chain levels
 •Water sustainability  technologies to increase manufacturing process efficiencies, 
reclamation, reuse, and restoration in industrial treatment centers
 •Material usage and sustainability,  including alternative chemistries for wafer 
processing, materials recycling, and waste stream abatement
The participating companies selected 18 startups to receive coaching by Lam and 
other industry experts on productization options and integration considerations 
within the semiconductor industry. In 2022, finalists will pitch their innovations to 
the world’s leading semiconductor companies and clean-tech investors.
Lam Research
| 27
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXNearly
7,500
employees attended our technical  
and innovation seminars in 2021
Engineering & Technology Conference
Our annual Engineering & Technology Conference brings together 
members of the Lam global technical community to participate in 
specialized learning opportunities that build skills and accelerate 
new ideas. In 2021, we hosted the event virtually and thus increased 
participation from 500 to more than 1,200. We collaborated with 
two internationally recognized leaders in broadcast media and 
gaming design to create an immersive, virtual world for attendees 
and optimized the broadcast for a global audience, running it 
continuously for 48 hours across global time zones.
Lam Research
| 28
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXSUSTAINABLE
OPERATIONS
There’s a
greener way.
Lam Research
| 29
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXWe live in an increasingly connected world. As technology advances and 
demand increases for more powerful semiconductors and the devices they 
make possible, our industry grows as well. This means a greater impact on the 
planet and natural resources that we all share.
Lam takes responsibility for our environmental impacts by integrating 
environmental considerations into our manufacturing and R&D activities. 
At facilities around the world, we are leveraging renewable energy sources, 
continuing to drive energy and water efficiency and responsibly managing 
waste and chemicals. Bold goals—including a new goal to achieve net zero 
emissions by 2050—hold us accountable.
We can’t do it alone. We are also driving change across our value chain, 
inspiring our suppliers to decarbonize and engaging with our customers to 
advance their sustainability efforts.RELEVANT SDGSSustainable operations*
GOALGOAL STATUSSTATUS PROGRESS TO DATEPROGRESS TO DATE
Achieve net zero emissions
by 2050 by meeting the  
following targets:
 -Achieve 100% renewable energy 
globally by 2030 •Sourced 54%  renewable 
energy globally in 2021
 -Reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 
(market-based) greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions 25% by 2025 and 
46% by 2030 from a 2019 baseline. 
Achieve net zero operations by 2040 •Achieved 9.5% reduction in 
Scope 1 and 2 (market-based) 
GHG emissions
 -Achieve 12 million kWh in total energy 
savings from a 2019 baseline •Achieved 4.7 million kWh in 
energy savings - 39% to goal
Achieve zero waste to landfill for 
hazardous waste •Diverted 99% from landfill  
in 2021
Achieve 17 million gallons of water 
savings (15%) in water-stressed 
regions from a 2019 baseline •Saved 13.2 million gallons of 
water in water stressed regions 
- 79% to goal
2021 highlights
 •Established global goals to achieve net zero by 2050 and 100% 
renewable energy by 2030
 •Reached 100% renewable energy at our Ohio, Malaysia, and China sites
 •Launched Lam Employee Sustainability Community and Green Teams
*We aim to achieve goals by 2025, unless otherwise stated.
Lam Research
| 30
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXOn the path to zero
Emissions reduction is the heart of our net zero goal. We address our carbon footprint through energy management, procurement of 
renewable energy, GHG abatement technologies, and, in the future, offsets of the emissions that we do not eliminate.
UPSTREAM ACTIVITIESScope 3
Indirect
2,276,504
MTCO2e
LAM FACILITIES AND OPERATIONSScope 2
Market-based 
indirect
56,521
MTCO2e
Scope 1
Direct
50,664  
MTCO2e
DOWNSTREAM ACTIVITIESScope 3
Indirect
4,409,176
MTCO2e
Scope 1 and 2: Focusing where we have the greatest impact
While only 2% of Lam’s GHG footprint is attributable to Scope 1 and 2 emissions, this is the aspect of our footprint over 
which we can make the most impact. Scope 1 and 2 encompasses the emissions that primarily result from our R&D, 
customer demonstrations, manufacturing, and other activities, as well as the electricity we purchase to power those 
activities. We are addressing these emissions by investing in energy efficiency  upgrades and grid-scale energy solutions, 
including onsite renewable energy , where we can. As we work toward our net zero goal, one of Lam’s new operating 
principles is that all new equipment investments will be made with Scope 1 and 2 emissions in mind.
We are working toward a 2025 goal to reduce Scope 1 and 2 (market-based) emissions by 25% from a 2019 baseline, and 
as of the end of 2021, we have reduced emissions by 9.5% from that baseline.Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions
27,415 36,162 38,788 50,664 64,02682,296 75,88456,5210.080.10
0.080.07
00.020.040.060.080.10.12
020,00040,00060,00080,000100,000120,000140,000160,000
2018 2019 2020 2021
Metric tons CO2e / US $1,000 R&D spending Metric tons CO2e 
Calendar year
Scope 1 Scope 2, market-based Normalized scope 1 + 2 emissions
107,185 MTCO2e Scope 1 and 2 (market-based) emissions
9.5%  decrease in Scope 1 and Scope 2 (market-based) emissions 
from 2019 baseline
30.6%  increase in Scope 1 emissions from 2020
25.5%  reduction in Scope 2 (market-based) emissions from 2020
Lam Research
| 31
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXScope 1
More than half of our Scope 1 emissions can be attributed to process gases used for customer 
demonstrations and R&D activity. Scope 1 emissions went up in 2021 due to increased R&D 
activity and concept and feasibility studies at our Fremont lab. We mitigate our Scope 1 emissions 
and minimize the emissions of toxic air contaminants and hazardous air pollutants, such as 
carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides (NOx), and sulfur oxides (SOx), through optimization of our 
semiconductor processes and the use of best-available emission control technlogies, including 
point-of use abatement devices and house abatement systems.
Scope 1 Greenhouse gas emissions
0100002000030000400005000060000
2021 2020 2019 2018Other refrigerants
Hydrofluorocarbons
Perfluorocarbons
Other flourinated
Non-flourinated
11,6686,8887,858662340
16,9487,75610,51391333
18,1198,53211,424
18,0719,64416,05471306,704192
Calendar yearMetric tons CO2e
2021 energy use by type
(kWh)
050100150200250300350400450
2021 2020 2019 2018
Normalized 
Energy UseOther (Solar + Diesel 
+ Propane + Vehicles)Natural Gas Electricity0.000210.000270.000290.00033
24089
25794
30794
196580.31.31.3
1.40.00035
million kWh per US $1,000 R&D SpendingMillion Kilowatt-hours (kWh)
00.0001
0.000050.000150.00020.000250.0003
Calendar year
1Energy data is based on estimated figures for the 2021 calendar year.
* Represents the annual energy savings equivalent, measured in millions of kWh, resulting from energy efficiency projects executed 
during 2021 for which the energy savings analysis was completed during 2021.Scope 2
Global demand for semiconductors is higher than ever and, with it, so is demand from 
customers for our wafer fabrication equipment and other products. Over the past five 
years, Lam has added new manufacturing space to keep up with this demand. In 2021, 
the addition of a new building and the build-out of our existing facility in Tualatin, Oregon; 
the use of Sense.iTM tools in Fremont, which are more efficient on a per wafer basis for 
customers but increase our lab energy use on an absolute basis; the addition of new 
equipment at our Springfield site; and the initiation of Lam Malaysia Manufacturing in 
Penang all contributed to increased energy use.
Energy efficiency
While increased manufacturing and lab expansion means more energy use, this is a 
relationship we must decouple as we work toward our energy and climate goals. Lam 
has a goal to achieve 12 million kWh of energy savings by 2025 compared to a 2019 
baseline. Since setting this goal, we have invested in energy efficiency projects such 
as LED lighting upgrades, retrofits, and improvements to HVAC equipment like air 
compressors. 2021 projects that helped us make progress toward this goal include:
 •Continuing to upgrade vacuum pumps and install LED lighting and commissioning our ultrapure 
and chilled water system in Tualatin, Oregon, which will save 1.1 million kWh per year
 •Addition of variable frequency drives on PCW3 pumps at our Fremont, California, facility, 
saving over 200,000 kWh of energy per year
 •Innovation in our crystal growing processes at our Springfield, OH site saving an estimated 
750,000 kWh per year
Renewable energy
Embracing renewable energy will also help us reach our net zero goal. We aim to use 100% 
renewable energy globally by 2030, and in 2021 we developed a strategy and roadmap to 
achieve this goal. Our roadmap will leverage a combination of available options at each 
site, including onsite solar, and market-based instruments.
Percent renewable electricity at  
U.S. labs and manufacturing sites
37%
33% 32%30%54%
0%10%20%30%40%50%
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021%  Renewable energy 
Calendar year402M  kWh in total energy use
14%  increase over 2020
2.08M  kWh in energy savings*
Silicon savings
Growing silicon ingots is an 
energy intensive process and our 
team in Springfield, Ohio looks 
for opportunities to optimize the 
equipment and process to save 
energy. In 2021, Abhinav Rao and 
Joshua Russell, research scientists, 
implemented process improvements 
that reduced the number of attempts 
to grow each crystal and increased 
the probability of growing a defect-
free crystal, which resulted in 
decreasing the energy consumption 
per mm of silicon grown.
Abhinav Rao
research scientist 
“Lam has a unique silicon growing process, which 
we continuously aim to improve upon by applying 
our Tech Vision principles. And in this case, our 
innovative approach resulted in not only  
growing better crystals but a significant  
reduction in energy use.”
Lam Research
| 32
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXFor example:
 •Our Villach, Austria plant continues to use 100% renewable energy through a combination of onsite solar and 
purchased energy. We expect to complete an expansion of the site’s onsite solar in 2022.
 •Our newest and largest manufacturing site in Penang, Malaysia will install onsite solar that is expected to generate 
over 4 million kWh of energy per year.
 •We purchase renewable energy certificates (RECs) that help us to achieve 100% renewable energy at our Ohio, 
Malaysia and China sites and 90% renewable at our India site.
Combining the energy we generate, RECs we purchase and the renewable energy from the local grids where we operate, 
54% of our domestic and global electricity consumption from our labs and manufacturing sites was renewable in 2021.
Scope 3: Driving down emissions together 
Most of our emissions occur from within our value chain, with our supply chain and use of our products being the 
highest contributors to our Scope 3 emissions. Over the long term, we plan to address these emissions by holding 
suppliers  accountable for setting and achieving emissions targets, improving logistics efficiency, and increasing the 
energy efficiency of our products . For Scope 3 categories where emissions reduction isn’t practicable, we plan to 
purchase emissions offsets to reach our net zero 2050 goal.
We conducted a Scope 3 inventory, using standard accounting protocols, to continue measuring our impact in 
this area and to serve as a launching point for our Scope 3 emissions reduction efforts. In 2021, we were able 
to further assess our average product lifetime using an updated dataset and methodology. This resulted in an 
increase of the product lifetime from eight years to 25 years. That significantly impacted our overall Scope 3 emissions 
and the proportion represented by the use of our products. The results of this inventory activity underscored the 
importance of focusing on the impact of our products. To do this, Lam’s Product Innovation working group 
is developing a roadmap  that will be integrated into product design, services, and industry collaboration. In 
the meantime, we plan to engage with our customers on setting their own science-aligned targets as well 
collaborating to support achievement of their sustainability objectives.
We also recognize how integral suppliers and their emissions reductions are to Lam’s success in reaching net zero. 
To ensure that our suppliers set their own SBTs to reduce emissions, we developed a supplier engagement plan that 
will build awareness and capability with our top direct suppliers over the coming years. To date, 10 of our top direct 
suppliers have already set or committed to setting SBTs. Our first Supplier ESG Forum in 2022 will encourage even 
more suppliers to join us on this journey.
Where possible, we aim to avoid and reduce Scope 3 emissions from business travel, including those associated 
with air travel, hotel stays, and car rentals. For those emissions that cannot be eliminated, we purchase the industry 
recognized gold-standard carbon offsets. In 2021, we offset 100% of our global air travel and rental cars, supporting 
renewable energy projects, distribution of efficient gas stoves, and biogas unit construction.Scope 3 represents
98%  of Lam’s total emissions
65%  from downstream emissions (primarily product use)
34%  from upstream emissions (primarily supply chain)INNOVATION SPOTLIGHT
Thinking locally: Leveraging language skills to make internal audits  
more efficient
Before the COVID-19 pandemic, Lam employees carried out internal audits by visiting our 
locations around the globe, which contributed to our Scope 3 emissions from business travel. 
In the wake of travel restrictions, senior internal audit manager Kristin Gallardo created a 
streamlined approach. Gallardo leveraged the diverse language skills of her team and their 
contractors to choose culturally relevant key words in Audit Command Language software to 
identify inappropriate expenses, duplicates in expense reports, and compliance with Lam’s 
policies. What used to take one to two weeks due to travel, manual processes, and random 
sampling can now be completed in a single day, with the added benefit of reducing travel and 
the associated carbon emissions.
Lam Research
| 33
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXMaking the most  
of every material
Lam generates waste in the research, development, and manufacturing of our 
products. We monitor and manage both hazardous and non-hazardous wastes, 
looking for ways to reduce, recover, reuse, and recycle materials. In addition, Lam 
maintains ISO 14001 certification at nearly all of our manufacturing and R&D facilities 
to reduce our environmental impact through more efficient use of resources.
 
Non-hazardous waste: Finding new recycling streams
Most of the waste that Lam generates is non-hazardous, consisting of materials  
like wood pallets, cardboard and packaging materials, and municipal wastes. In 
2021, our non-hazardous waste generation rose due to increased activities at our 
manufacturing and R&D facilities compared to the previous year and the addition  
of our Malaysia facility.
8,505  metric tons of non-hazardous waste
71%  recycling rateMaking a dent in waste
The facilities team at our Tualatin, Oregon 
plant initiated a recycling pilot in 2021 to 
dramatically increase recycling for hard-to-
recycle plastics.  
The pilot resulted in:
 •81 different types of plastics diverted  
from landfill
 •A reduction of trash compactor pickups 
from nine per month to one per month
 •Over 32,000 pounds of waste diverted 
from landfill since July 2021Non-hazardous waste
generation and recycling
6,939
6,528
5,8918,505
4,077
3,6134,1206,02059%
55%70%
71%
020%40%60%80%
02,0004,0006,0008,00010,000
2018 2019 2020 2021
(Total recycling / total generation) *100 Metric tons
Calendar year
Non-hazardous waste generated Non-hazardous waste recycled Recycling r ate
Non-hazardous waste recycling
Wood pallets 45%
Other recycling 3%Silicon scrap 4%Metal and 
electronic waste 8%
Paper 1%Mixed plastic 
and packaging 5% Mixed recycling 
and ca rdboard 22% 
Production waste 10%
Compost 2%
Note: In 2020, we updated our methodology in calculating recycling rate for solid wastes in order to align with SASB.
Lam Research
| 34
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXHazardous waste generation and recycling
1,7882,1132,4162,208
505642540 52428%30%
22% 24%
05%10%15%20%25%30%35%
05001,0001,5002,0002,5003,000
2018 2019 2020 2021
(Total recycling / total generation) *100 Metric tons
Calendar year
Hazardous waste generated Hazardous waste recycled Recycling r ate
Hazardous waste disposal
Offsite wastewater 
treatme nt 42% 
Thermal treatme nt 8%Deep-we ll 
injection 22%Recycled 24%
Landfill 1%Waste-to-en ergy 3%
Note: In 2020 we started tracking any wastes sent to waste-to-energyHazardous waste: Managing with care
The manufacturing of our products involves chemicals that produce 
corrosive wastes, flammable wastes, and lab debris, all of which 
are considered hazardous. We follow strict controls for responsible 
handling of these waste streams. Because this waste is an inherent 
part of our R&D and manufacturing processes, we do not have a 
goal to reduce this waste. Instead, we aim to find alternative disposal 
streams for all hazardous waste so that none goes to landfill.
We continue to divert most of our hazardous waste to offsite 
wastewater treatment and recycling facilities, which use treatment 
methods including fuel blending, solvent recovery, metal recycling, 
deep-well injection, and off-site wastewater treatment. In 2021, we 
sent 1% of our total global hazardous waste to landfill. This was slightly 
above the amount we sent in 2020 due to pandemic-related backlogs 
at the incineration facilities where some of our waste is managed.
Lam works with CHWMEG, a nonprofit trade association whose 
members strive to efficiently steward waste. CHWMEG audits our 
major offsite hazardous waste treatment, storage, and disposal 
facilities (TSDF). This audit is an integral part of our TSDF selection 
and risk assessment process.2,208  metric tons of hazardous waste generated
24%  recycling rate
Lam Research
| 35
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXProtecting people and the environment from chemical risks
Just as we manage waste generated during our production processes, we also carefully 
manage the chemicals that people encounter as part of manufacturing. Chemical 
management is part of our EHS standards, which also include guidelines related to:
 •Secondary containment of chemicals
 •Spill prevention control (e.g., safe valves, sumps, leak detection)
 •Prohibition of direct buried chemical tanks and pipes regardless of controls
 •Fall protection tie-off points
 •Confined space safety feature
Lam uses a chemical information management system (CIMS) to facilitate chemical use 
approval at each site and to track and monitor our chemical inventories.
Conserving our most  
precious resource
Water is essential to our business, our suppliers, and our customers. It’s also a critical part 
of Lam’s own R&D and manufacturing processes. We use freshwater in our chillers, house 
scrubbers, process cooling water system, and soft water treatment plant. The quality of 
the water is also important—the cleaner the water we use, the fewer chemicals we need 
to treat it, and the less maintenance is needed on our facility equipment.
In 2019, Lam used the World Resources Institute (WRI) Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas to 
identify areas with water stress. During this process we identified three facilities to focus 
on, which include our two sites in California and our manufacturing facility in South Korea. 
In 2021, we have also identified our new site in Malaysia, our leased facilities in India, and 
our new technology center in South Korea as water-stressed areas.
We have a goal to achieve 17 million gallons in water savings in water-stressed locations 
by 2025 using a 2019 baseline. Since setting this goal, Lam’s Global Workplace Solutions 
(GWS) team has explored new technology solutions and invested in efficiency upgrades 
in accordance with emerging best practices. These solutions include recycling of treated 
wastewater for house scrubbers and point-of-use abatement units, and use of brackish 
water for landscaping and fire suppression. We added eight water recovery units to our 
abatement systems in California in 2020 and another seven in 2021. In 2021, we saved 
6.3 million gallons of water at our water-stressed locations.Water use, treatment, and recycling
228276292378
142 150
126170
86 8772 750.000190.00023
0.000210.00024
00.000050.00010.000150.00020.00025
0100200300400
2018 2019 2020 2021
Millio n  gallons / $1,000 R&D spendingMillio n gallons
Calendar year
Water usage Wastewater treated Wastewater recycled Normalized water usage
Wastewater: Being a good steward
We monitor industrial wastewater and stormwater discharges in accordance 
with local regulatory requirements. In many cases, we reuse process 
wastewater for other aspects of our operations, allowing us to use less water 
overall. We are finishing the construction of wastewater reclamation and 
recycling systems and acid waste neutralization systems at our California and 
Korea facilities. These new systems are expected to be fully operable in 2022 
and will save over 20 million gallons of water per year once in use, exceeding 
Lam’s 2025 goal.
Going green at Lam Villach
Lam Villach takes its cues from the Austrian ‘smart city’ in which 
it’s located. From a planned neutralization plant that enables 
our operations to minimize acid concentrates and hazardous 
waste generation, to the use of 100% renewable energy through a 
combination of onsite solar and purchased energy, sustainability 
features permeate the campus. Seven new electric vehicle 
charging stations were added in 2021, bringing the total to 11. 
Outside, employees can enjoy fruit trees and pollinator plants, 
and harvest herbs and vegetables from the garden.378 million gallons of total  
water usage
38%  of usage occurs in  
water-stressed areas
6.3  million gallons of water  
savings realized towards our  
2025 goal
Lam Research
| 36
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXWorking together to 
care for the planet
Across the world, Lam employees take action to reduce their own environmental impacts 
and those of the company. Throughout the year, we offer programs to engage employees 
and build momentum for sustainability. These include:
Supporting employee-led action
Transformative change often comes from the grassroots. Lam’s Employee Sustainability 
Community (LESC), launched in 2021, invites all employees and contractors globally 
to collectively enact sustainable change inside and outside of Lam. The group meets 
monthly to hear from guest speakers and brainstorm new programs. To date, LESC has 
organized initiatives such as Plastic Free July, in which participants were challenged to 
use as little single-use plastic as possible. The group is also advocating for more plant-
based food in facility cafeterias to reduce food-related emissions.
Beyond LESC, Lam also has three employee Green Teams, which are site-specific groups 
that focus on improving our campuses’ ecological sustainability, including improving 
waste diversion, enhancing natural spaces, and conserving resources. Green Teams are 
currently active in Tualatin, Livermore, and Fremont.
A critical piece of our employee engagement strategy is rooted in the recognition and 
celebration of our employees’ environmental efforts. For the second year, Lam presented 
Environmental Stewardship Awards to individuals and groups who advocate for 
sustainable practices, both at Lam and in their communities. We’re proud to recognize 
the 2021 winners:
 •Angela Hartman, an administrative assistant from Fremont, who serves as volunteer 
program coordinator at the Ohlone Humane Society Wildlife Rehabilitation Center
 •John Niggley and Stacy Fortner, facilities professionals in Tualatin, who have 
adopted sustainable practices at the facility, including leveraging incentives for 
energy efficiency, increasing plastic recycling, and creating a pollinator garden on 
the campus
Celebrations around the globe
Throughout Asia, employees took part in World Environment Day events, including a beach 
cleanup at Pasir Ris Beach Park in Singapore and a litter cleanup day in Shanghai.
During Earth Month, employees participate in the EcoChallenge, a 30-day challenge 
organized by EcoChallenge.org . Throughout the month, participants can commit to reduce 
waste and water, use less energy, eat healthy meals, and spend more time outdoors. In 2021, 
the winner of the challenge was Lisa Thamer, an administrative support professional in 
Austria. Lisa adopted many new habits during the 30-day period, including wasting less food, 
switching to LED bulbs, planting trees, and learning about environmental practices.
Creating a buzz at  
our facilities 
Insects are small but mighty partners in 
protecting the health of ecosystems. Lam 
Research teams worldwide have taken 
steps to promote healthy local insect 
populations, such as:
 •Using ladybugs as a natural aphid 
control measure and alternative to 
pesticides and planting a pollinator 
garden in Tualatin, Oregon
 •Supporting the restoration of firefly habitats in Chungcheongbukdo, Korea, where fireflies are a 
natural indicator of pollution levels
 •Planting flowers in Villach, Austria, to provide a food source for local pollinators
Lisa Thamer
EcoChallenge winner
“The EcoChallenge makes 
participants stop and think about 
what they are doing for or against 
our planet. This can be a ‘wake-up 
call’ to change their ways.”
Lam Research
| 37
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXOUR WORKPLACE
We foster  
an innovative, 
achievement-oriented 
culture and celebrate 
the people who bring
it to life.
Lam Research
| 38
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXA tiny nudge in nanotechnology can move the whole world forward. That’s the idea 
that propels our employees as they push the boundaries of what’s possible. Bold 
innovators, masters of precision, and believers in process and proof—our employees 
represent the top talent in our industry and are at the heart of Lam’s success.
We support our employees by cultivating a safe and inclusive environment and 
investing in their wellness and development. Our commitment to inclusion and 
diversity (I&D) contributes to a culture where every employee is empowered to do 
their best work. We leverage diversity to fuel innovation—uniting unique individuals 
with broad perspectives to tackle complex challenges in new ways.
In 2021, around the world our employees rolled up their sleeves to meet increased 
production demands in the midst of a global health pandemic. At the same time, we 
expanded our global workforce dramatically, adding over 4,000 individuals to our 
team—a 33% increase over 2020. We did so with a focus on hiring diverse talent, 
including more female and minority workers, who are widely underrepresented in 
the fields of science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM). Through it all, our 
employees delivered tremendous results for our business and customers, driven by 
the question, “what’s next?”RELEVANT SDGSWorkplace*
GOALGOAL STATUSSTATUS PROGRESS TO DATEPROGRESS TO DATE
Build on our high-performance 
culture with best-in-class employee 
engagement at the top-tier 
benchmark as measured by
our annual employee survey** •Achieved top 20% 
engagement in 2021
Maintain an OSHA recordable injury 
rate at or below 0.4*** •Realized recordable injury rate 
of 0.4 in 2021
Increase number of women and 
underrepresented employees  
across the company •Expanded proportion of 
women globally by 4.8% and 
underrepresented employee 
groups by 15.4% in 2021
2021 highlights
 •Expanded benefits to include 16-week paid parental leave and up to 
six months for birth mothers
 •Established new relationships with Historically Black Colleges and 
Universities (HBCUs) and Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSIs)
 •Launched six new employee resource groups (ERGs), including four 
in our Asian regions
 •Created WorkWise, a global initiative to support employee wellness
*We aim to achieve goals by 2025, unless otherwise stated.
**Updated in 2021 to reflect change in methodology for measuring engagement benchmark.
***Updated in 2021 to clarify goal is at or below 0.4
Lam Research
| 39
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXPutting our people first:  
Our approach to human 
capital management
We’re building on our success in making Lam an outstanding global workplace. Our Board 
of Directors oversees the performance of our CEO and the succession of executive talent, 
and works with the Compensation and Human Resources Committee to engage with 
management across a broad range of human capital-related topics. Our CEO Staff and 
Global Human Resources teams drive the same objectives for our entire global workforce. 
Their focus areas include:
 •I&D to enable greater innovation and self-empowerment in the workplace
 •Recruitment, employee development, and retention
 •Employee engagement
 •Compensation and benefits
 •Health and safety
Since calendar year 2020, all of our named executive officers have had compensation 
goals related to culture, talent, and I&D to help ensure the members of our executive 
team are aligned with our corporate goals in these areas and are accountable for the 
results achieved.
Our commitment to non-discrimination
We aim to maintain and cultivate a workplace where every person has equal 
opportunities to thrive. In line with the highest ethical and legal standards of labor 
and employment laws in every country where Lam maintains our workforce, we are 
committed to equal opportunity and non-discrimination in all our employment practices. 
We prohibit discrimination, harassment, and retaliation in any aspect of employment—
including recruiting, hiring, promotion, and compensation.Leading from the top
In 2021, Lam’s CEO Tim Archer joined more 
than 2,000 signatories of the CEO Action for 
Diversity and Inclusion pledge , which aims 
to drive measurable action and meaningful 
change in advancing diversity, equity, and 
inclusion in the workplace.
Tim Archer
president and CEO
“The actions we take as an industry 
to increase the diversity of our talent 
pipeline today will dramatically 
improve our ability to drive new 
semiconductor breakthroughs in  
the future.”
Lam Research
| 40
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXMoving the needle on I&D
To underscore our ongoing focus on these important topics, we added inclusion 
and diversity as one of our Core Values in 2021. Our commitment to cultivating 
an inclusive environment and increasing diversity among our workforce has an 
influence in areas ranging from recruitment practices to benefits offerings to our 
company policies. Our global head of I&D, Antoinette Hamilton, leads our I&D 
strategy, which focuses on three core pillars: fostering inclusion, increasing diversity, 
and sharing our progress.
In 2021, we focused on deepening and expanding our commitments to accountability, 
transparency, gender equality, and supporting diverse communities through investments 
in leadership development, employee engagement, talent growth, and communication.
2021 workforce representation
As we continue implementing our I&D strategy, we’re committed to holding ourselves 
accountable and being transparent about our results and in 2021, we expanded our 
disclosure by publicly reporting our Equal Employment Opportunity EEO-1 data  for the 
first time.
To the right is a snapshot of the demographics of our U.S. and global workforce as of 
December 31, 2021. The scope of employee demographic data does not include our 
Talus employees, although they are included in our total headcount.
In 2021, we encouraged our employees to self-identify their disability status, and to 
date 34% of employees disclosed it. We will use these insights to inform the continuous 
improvement in our I&D initiatives.Antoinette  
Hamilton
global head of I&D
“When diverse voices come 
together to express support for 
equity and inclusion, it creates a 
unique power to make real and 
lasting cultural change.”
Global gender representation
Managers
Global and U.S. GenderGlobal
U.S.U.S.Executives
Global and U.S. GenderGlobal
U.S.Technical 
Employees
Global and U.S. GenderGlobal
New Hires
Global GenderGlobalNew College 
Graduates
U.S. GenderU.S.U.S.All Employees
Global and U.S. GenderGlobal
Board of Directors
Gender19.5%
Female80.3%
Male
22.0%
Female77.7%
Male
40.0%
Female60.0%
Male
16.9%
Female83.1%
Male
18.2%
Female81.8%
Male
17.3%
Female82.7%
Male
20.8%
Female79.2%
Male
11.7%
Female88.3%
Male
15.0%
Female85.0%
Male
25.4%
Female74.6%
Male
21.8%
Female0.5%
Other77.7%
Male0.2%
Other
0.3%
Other
Minimal rounding has been applied to this data.
Lam Research
| 41
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXU.S. ethnic diversity
All employees*
American Indian or Alaskan Native
Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander
Black or African American
Two or More Races
Hispanic or LatinxChose not to disclose
Asian
White0.4%0.7% 2.6%
2.9%
5.9%
7.0%
30.0%50.5%U.S. gender and ethnicity*
0.9%
Female3.0%
Male1.1%
Female
21.7%
Male8.3%
Female4.6%
Male
1.6% Female2.1% Male0.5% Female
5.4%
Male40.8%
Male
White Chose not to disclose Other Race/Ethnicity
Asian
Hispanic or LatinxBlack or African American9.7%
Female0.2%
Other
0.1%
Other
Other workforce diversity
U.S. Veteran status
U.S. Veteran 8% 
Non-U.S. Veteran 92% Global employees by generation*
9.8%
23.1%60.4%6.7%
1946-19641965-19 791980-19951996 o r afterBorn
*Minimal rounding has been applied to this data. Data does not include Talus.
Lam Research
| 42
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIX13 
GEM fellowships funded in 2021
38
GEM fellowships funded since 2019
$300,000
in GEM fellowship funding annuallyAdvancing I&D in our industry
Companies with increased diversity among their management teams reportedly drive an 
average of 19% more of their revenue from innovation than their less diverse counterparts.1 
Therefore, we are confident that attracting, retaining, and developing diverse talent helps 
us maintain a competitive edge. Despite ongoing evidence that an inclusive and diverse 
workforce boosts companies’ ability to drive value and fuel innovation, a lack of pathways 
persists in the U.S. for people of color and women to enter STEM fields. The time for 
progress is now, and we know it takes teamwork to move our industry forward.
In 2021, we launched and continued a variety of collaborations to support organizations 
advancing I&D in STEM. The organizations we work with include: 
 •Alliance for Global Inclusion
 •Conference for Engineering Diversity
 •DEI Board, founding member
 •EDGE in Tech Initiative at the University of California
 •National GEM Consortium
 •Out & Equal
 •Out in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (oSTEM)
 •United Negro College Fund
 •Women in Science, Engineering and Technology (WISET in Korea)
Around the world, we support organizations 
that build awareness and opportunities for 
underrepresented STEM talent, including but not 
limited to people of color, women, and members 
of the LGBTQIA+ community. One of our key 
relationships is with the National Consortium of 
Graduate Degrees for Minorities in Engineering 
(GEM), which provides graduate-level 
fellowships to underrepresented candidates in 
engineering and science. We're proud that our 
CEO, Tim Archer, has served as GEM’s Chairman 
since 2020, and our foundation provides 
$300,000 for GEM fellowships each year.
In 2021, Lam hosted a panel on the main stage of 
SEMICON West that highlighted why prioritizing 
diversity, equity, and inclusion is not just the right 
thing to do, it is a business imperative – crucial 
to combatting the existing tech talent shortage. 
The panel convened industry luminaries to 
promote accountability, share best practices, and 
increase opportunity around the path forward for 
advancing diversity, equity, and inclusion.
1Boston Consulting Group https://www.bcg.com/publications/2018/how-diverse-leadership-teams-boost-innovation
Lam Research
| 43
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXRecruiting diverse employees and helping them thrive
At Lam, we lean into complex challenges to move society forward. Today, 
surging chip demand is fueling industry growth, yet widespread labor shortages 
make it hard for companies around the world to keep up.2 With millions of job 
openings available across the tech and advanced manufacturing sectors, our 
industry faces stiff competition to attract, retain, and source new talent. At the 
same time, diverse candidates remain underrepresented in many industries 
powered by STEM.
In 2021, Lam launched several new relationships to support and engage 
diverse students and professionals throughout the U.S. and help close the 
representation gap in STEM. Our new engagements with INROADS creates 
opportunities for students from historically underserved communities to 
complete internships at Lam. And our collaboration with the United Negro 
College Fund (UNCF) provides $100,000 in funds through 20 new scholarships 
at UNCF schools including HBCUs. We also have student and alumni recruiting 
relationships with:
 •Howard University
 •Norfolk State University*
 •North Carolina A&T
 •The National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE)*
 •Society for Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE)*
*new in 2021
We continue to prioritize investments in our internship program, new college 
graduate (NCG) rotation program, campus events, and thesis awards and 
scholarships. Through the NCG rotation program, recent graduates gain 
educational training along with real-life experiences that help prepare them  
for successful careers.
Through these programs, we’ve transformed an industry-wide challenge into an 
opportunity for Lam. In 2021, 19% of our new hires were from underrepresented 
groups, and we will continue to promote diversity inside and outside our company.
From kindergarten to college, we’re 
increasing pathways to STEM
The talent pipeline starts long before the recruitment or application process. 
It begins by showing K-12 students just how fun and exciting STEM can be 
and continues through collaborations with universities and organizations 
fostering better career opportunities for underrepresented groups.
Core to our early outreach efforts, two of our ERGs—Black Employee 
Network (BEN) and Community of Latinx and African Americans for 
Student Success (C.L.A.S.S.)—volunteer in schools to encourage students 
in the African American and Latinx communities to explore STEM 
education and careers.
As students progress beyond their K-12 years, our ongoing and new 
relationships with HBCUs, HSIs, GEM, and other organizations create 
opportunities for diverse graduating high school seniors—as well as 
undergraduate and graduate-level university students—to discover 
their full potential. We continue to provide support through scholarships, 
internships, and opportunities to join our workforce.Tony Davis
product support 
engineer and Black
Employee Network chair
“An inclusive future is one in 
which everyone has a path 
to economic, social, and 
educational opportunities.”
2Lam Blog: https://blog.lamresearch.com/the-semiconductor-industrys-next-inflection-point/
Lam Research
| 44
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIX77
Our 2021 Inclusion  
Index Score compared to 
the technology industry 
benchmark of 73Tapping into the heart of Lam
Our ERGs harness the passion of employees around the world to contribute to a more inclusive 
and diverse company culture. They create opportunities for employees to connect, learn, and 
develop; volunteer in mentoring programs; support diverse recruitment; and engage in our 
local communities. Under our ERG model, each group develops its own charter, goals, and 
initiatives that align with the company’s I&D Vision, for every person to feel valued, included, 
and empowered to achieve their full potential. By bringing unique individuals and viewpoints 
together, we achieve extraordinary results.
In 2021, all members of the CEO staff participated in ERG activities throughout the year, achieving 
our goal of 100% engagement. And each of our ERGs has an engaged executive sponsor. In 2021, 
we launched several new groups, expanding our total to 14, which includes the following:
 •Black Employee Network*
 •Community of Latino/African Americans  
for Student Success Outreach
 •Lam India Women’s Network (LIWN)*
 •New Professionals Network*
 •PRIDE LGBTQ+ Allies
 •Lam’s Veteran Community
 •Women in CSBG •Women in Engineering
 •Women@Fremont
 •Women in Global Operations (WGOP)
 •Women in Leadership at Lam
 •Women in Global Operations Malaysia*
 •Women of Southeast Asia*
 •Women in Global Operations Korea
*New in 2021
Fostering an inclusive culture through ongoing training and engagement
We strive to embed I&D values throughout every aspect of our organization, including through 
trainings, engagement activities, and employee development resources. We provide cross-
cultural training and mentoring opportunities, and I&D training is required for all new employees.
Managers receive further trainings and support to help them cultivate a more inclusive 
workplace for the teams they lead. We also offer resources through our app-based Inclusion 
Every Day program, which features practical, accessible reminders to be inclusive in daily 
leadership and decision-making. In addition, we are requiring all managers to set an inclusion 
development goal on an annual basis beginning in 2022.
In 2021, we further focused on I&D engagement by launching an Inclusion Index within our 
annual employee survey. The index represents the combined score of three survey questions 
that address equal opportunity, inclusion, and authenticity. While these items have been 
included in previous surveys, the new combined measurement will allow us to hold ourselves 
accountable by more clearly assessing our progress and identifying opportunities to improve. 
We also kicked off a new quarterly speaker series titled “Inclusion and Diversity Talks,” which 
had participation from over 1,500 employees globally.
Lam Research
| 45
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXAdvancing equity at Lam
Women now outpace men in earning college degrees within the U.S.3, and they’ve achieved 
parity in the life sciences areas of work in many countries throughout the world.4 Yet when it 
comes to STEM fields beyond health sciences—such as engineering, computing, physics, and 
math—a stark gender gap remains. That gap highlights the persistent inequities facing women 
in STEM, and a critical missed opportunity for our in-demand industry.
To help address this gap, we’re committed to promoting gender equality and increasing 
the number of women in our workforce. To ensure accountability, we regularly measure the 
progress of our efforts to recruit, hire, and retain female employees. We also conduct an 
annual pay equity assessment of our compensation practices and systems to promote fair  
and equitable compensation in our workforce.Additionally, in 2021, we continued to focus on increasing the number of women in 
our workforce and advancing their development by engaging with organizations 
that support women in STEM, including the National Association of Women in 
Manufacturing; Society of Women Engineers; Watermark; WIN (Women in INnovation) 
Korea; Women in Science, Engineering and Technology; and several universities in 
India. From Korea to the U.S., our female leaders spoke at virtual events streamed 
around the world, and we sponsored and participated at numerous conferences and 
event series aimed at connecting and empowering women. Examples include:
 •Anita B.org: annual Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing event
 •Expanding Diversity and Gender Equity in Tech Initiative: Women in Tech 
Symposium
 •San Jose State University: Women in Engineering Conference
 •Singapore Semiconductor Industry Association: Semiconductor Women’s Forum
 •Women Impact Tech: event series
 •WIN (Women in INnovation) Korea: bi-annual conferences
Our employees celebrated International Women’s Day with a #ChooseToChallenge 
campaign, which called out gender bias and inequality while celebrating women’s 
achievements. Meanwhile, female employees leveraged our Yammer channels to 
cultivate connections by launching groups like Moms of Lam. ERGs remain a core 
mode of connection for female employees worldwide. 
As part of our efforts to reduce the gender gap in STEM, retain our female 
workforce, and provide family-supportive benefits (for both female and male 
employees), in 2021, we expanded our benefits offerings with inclusion and 
diversity in mind—including increasing paid parental leave and creating more 
workplace flexibility globally. We also collaborated with Pathforward to design 
and develop a Return-to-Work Program, which will launch in 2022 to help workers 
return to the workplace after a gap in their employment history and provide new 
recruitment channels for Lam.Representation of women in our workforce by level
Other 43%Managers 19%Executives 5% 
Technical 
employees 33%  
Pushing gender equality forward
Our Women in Global Operations (WGOPs) ERG reaches across 
continents to support and develop Lam’s female talent. In 2021, WGOPs 
continued their collaboration with FountainBlue, a change management 
consultancy, to deliver a series of year-round, women-in-leadership 
events and programs. This included 24 frontline manager meetings 
on topics such as communication, negotiation, and creativity in tech; 
12 panel meetings for middle to senior women leaders; and 12 VIP 
roundtables for leaders at the director level and above.3Pew Research: https://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2021/11/08/whats-behind-the-growing-gap-
between-men-and-women-in-college-completion/  
 
4World Economic Forum: https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2021/07/science-technology-gender-gap/
Lam Research
| 46
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIX80 
engagement score  
(top 20% of tech benchmark)
6.5 
Average years of service
93%
retentention rate
Engaging employees to create 
a great workplace for all
When employees feel engaged, they approach their jobs with a long-term commitment and 
perspective that helps them produce their best work. And when that happens, our customers 
benefit, and our business thrives. Over the last few years, our work dynamic has changed with a 
portion of our employees working remotely, so maintaining high levels of employee engagement 
has never been more important.
Listen, learn, improve: Our strategy for ongoing engagement
Employee feedback plays a critical role in shaping many of our workplace initiatives and priorities. 
We measure employee engagement and capture employee insights through a comprehensive 
annual survey, which is facilitated through an external vendor and incorporates our new 
Inclusion Index, employee onboarding and exit surveys, and employee listening sessions. 
With each new round of insights, we act on what we learn. For example, to maintain consistently 
high scores throughout Lam, we invited managers of consistent, highly engaged teams to share 
their stories and best practices at scale, igniting energy and inspiring action. We provided 
personalized coaching and support for new people managers to improve performance and 
help elevate teams to the Lam average. Over the past three years, we’ve also used employees’ 
feedback to develop and enhance some of our most valuable workplace programs, including:
 •Strengthening the Employee Resource Group community
 •Continuing data-driven leadership development programming (including resilience and 
communication)
 •Launching new programs including Better Up Coaching, Mentor Connect, and our U.S. Flexible 
Workplace policy
In 2021, our annual employee engagement index score of 80 put us in the top 20% of our 
survey vendor’s technology clients for the second year in a row. Lam survey scores exceeded 
the technology benchmark on all items in 2021 including manager support. We also expanded 
employee listening through two new surveys: in March, we re-launched our corporate exit survey 
to gain insights across the employee experience. And in September, we launched a new-hire 
experience survey, administered at 45 days of employment, and also streamlined our new hire 
training and improved the welcome experience.
Celebrating employees who go above and beyond
We celebrate each other’s success. Above and Beyond, our “everyone-to-everyone” recognition 
program, allows employees to acknowledge individuals or teams for great work or demonstration 
of our Core Values. In 2021, employees recognized fellow colleagues with more than 71,000 
awards. Individual and team accomplishments are also recognized through our Vista, 
Outstanding Technical Achievement, and Patented Innovation awards.
Erin Wixson
employee engagement  
senior manager
“While Lam employee engagement scores 
are top tier, focusing on engagement isn’t 
enough to be best-in-class. Which is why 
we are focused on our employee experience 
listening and measurement strategy to 
inform targeted investments in the  
overall employee experience.”
Lam Research
| 47
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXLooking out for our 
employees’ well-being
Our employees deliver results for Lam, and we strive to deliver great benefits and 
resources in return. The resources we provide help employees maintain strong 
physical health, manage their finances, and find a critical balance between 
work and life. We offer these benefits through on-demand platforms to ensure 
accessibility to our global workforce.
In 2021, we further integrated inclusive features into our global benefits and 
wellness offerings, with a focus on increasing support for families and parents. 
We added:
 •Expanded our paid maternity leave for birth mothers up to 6 months and 
provided all parents with up to 4 months of paid parental leave
 •Higher lifetime maximums for fertility treatments and prescriptions
 •Higher reimbursement for adoption expenses
 •Extended bereavement leave 
 •Expanded our elective legal insurance benefit to cover a broader range of needsOur global workforce was incredibly resilient throughout 2020 and 2021. However, in listening sessions and engagement 
surveys, we found that some employees were struggling with fatigue and isolation. This was due in part to the ongoing 
COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting shift to remote and hybrid work. We responded by hiring additional resources in key 
areas, outlining clearer organizational priorities, and expanding our benefits focused on physical, financial, and mental health. 
We also rolled out new trainings and initiatives through digital and on-demand platforms, including:
 •WorkWise:  A series of initiatives to support wellness and engagement, which added two new holidays, instilled better 
boundaries and best practices for video calls and included virtual events to create social connections among colleagues
 •Managing Medical and Leave Issues in the Workplace: An inclusivity-focused training to help managers support people 
with complex leave and disability issues
 •Mental Health First Aid certification:  A program to build practical skills to spot signs of mental health issues and learn 
strategies to support a person in distress
 •Remote meeting practices:  Protocols to support wellness including Workday Boundaries, which set expectations and 
boundaries for working hours, and Focus Fridays, which establish that Friday meetings are off-camera and should end by 
2:00 p.m. local time.
Employee benefits
Physical health
 •Telehealth access
 •Virtual Health Fair* enhanced to include 
sessions for children and family
 •COVID-19 tests and treatment covered at 100% 
with no co-payment
 •COVID-19 resources for those who are sick, in 
quarantine, or caring for others
 •Personalized nutrition plans, nutrition 
challenges, healthy cooking demonstrations, 
and webinars
 •Virtual fitness experts, classes, daily workout 
ideas, and personal training
 •Virgin Pulse app—a wellness platform for 
employees, families, and friends that provides 
resources for better sleep, lowering stress, and 
being more active
 •Wellness incentive*Financial well-being
 •Pay continuity for employees affected by closures for cleaning, 
social distancing, and other safety measures
 •Emergency pay of up to 80 hours for days when an employee 
stays home due to COVID-19-related absences
 •Penalty-free COVID-19 related 401(k) distributions allowed of  
up to $100,000
 •Financial seminars and webinars
Work-life management
 •Convenient access to licensed therapists via text through Talkspace
 •Personalized on-demand help for stress, anxiety and depression with 
the Sanvello app
 •Childcare support through Care.com (U.S. only)
 •Fully-paid leave of absence of up to 16 weeks paid family leave for baby 
bonding (U.S. only) (expanded by four weeks)
 •Webinars on stress management, family support, and family wellness
 •Lifestyle account allowance up to $500 for a variety of life-enhancing 
opportunities for employees and their families (U.S. only)
 •Employee Assistance Program (EAP)** that offers confidential, 
professional care and resources including information, advice, and 
support in 14 languages*new in 2021
**Increased from six to seven sessions
Note: Benefits offered to all global regular, full-time employees unless otherwise noted.
Lam Research
| 48
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXFocusing on employee development
Lam employees are curious. They are continuous learners who discover new ideas and test new possibilities. Our goal is to help employees build 
a dynamic, evolving career at Lam. To do so, we enlist our Learning Connect portal, iLearn on-demand training portal, and other platforms to 
create flexible development opportunities for remote workers and provide trainings customized by region. Additionally, in 2021 we launched the 
Lam Learning Series, which provides live trainings on current and relevant topics for Lam, delivered in local languages globally. Topics included 
building organizational resilience for people leaders, and managing and preventing burnout for all employees.
Further, we focus on offering existing employees opportunities for promotion and growth, as well as ensuring talent succession. In 2021, we 
promoted over 1,900 Lam employees, or 45% of our open positions.
Turning talent into leadership
At Lam everyone is a learner and everyone is a leader. As employees develop their skills and gain knowledge, we help them build their 
confidence to lead Lam’s global teams toward world-class results. Our leadership programs and our technical certification program are 
designed to meet Lam’s managers at different stages of their evolving careers. They include:
 •Grow : With a focus on first-time managers and effective communication, Grow allows us to scale leadership across our business, guiding new 
managers early on.
 •Lead:  Lead is designed to help experienced managers to up-level their leadership skills.
 •Edge:  Edge equips our executive leaders to drive positive change through a year-long cohort journey.
 •Leap:  Our technical program, Leap, provides new hires and current engineers with a comprehensive company overview and a four-level skill 
certification program across 12 disciplines to accelerate their development.
As our leaders grow their careers, they mentor others to share knowledge and increase their network and capabilities. In April 2021, we 
implemented Mentor Connect, a new technology that expands our ability to facilitate mentorship relationships across the company. In our 
first enterprise mentor program we had 317 mentoring participants, with a satisfaction score of 3.9/4. We also work with BetterUp, an online 
coaching platform, to provide external coaching to key talent, including 315 managers in 2021.Training and development in 2021
454,000
total employee training hours
$2M
reimbursement for educational expenses4,500
courses offered
680+
managers engaged through Grow, 
Lead, and Edge programs in 2021
Tuning in to the voice of our customers
Our Edge development program empowers Lam executives to drive positive change
in our organization. In 2021, one multidisciplinary Edge team set out to explore ways
to streamline our Voice of Customer (VoC) programs, which capture critical customer
feedback so that we can improve our customer experience.
By analyzing current VoC practices, the Edge team captured and summarized several areas 
for improvement. They then benchmarked Lam’s practices against industry peers and 
interviewed a key customer to capture their insights. Through an organized training program 
the team turned their findings into a set of recommendations for better organization-wide VoC 
practices and awareness. This set the foundation for a second phase of the project, in which 
they hope to capture additional VoC insights, such as customers’ views on ESG.Employees participated in 
over 16,000 Leap training 
classes representing 40,000 
learning hours. Since 2018, 
over 2,500 Leap certifications 
have been awarded to the 
technical community.
Lam Research
| 49
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXCommitted to safety
The products and services our employees deliver enable the devices on which our society relies. 
Never was that truer than in 2021, when global demand for chip technologies reached record heights. 
Keeping pace required a tremendous amount of work by our employees at manufacturing sites and 
labs, and offices around the globe. Protecting and supporting our employees is always paramount. 
We follow strict safety protocols, prioritize safety training, and use risk controls to enable employees 
to safely do their work while continuing to meet and exceed customer expectations.
Our global Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) Policy outlines our commitment to protect all 
Lam personnel and minimize risk through prevention of illness, injury, and environmental impact. 
It applies to every site and employee where we operate. To uphold our commitment to safety, we 
invest in prevention-based education, training, and awareness programs, as well as emergency 
preparedness procedures. Our safety programs are governed through a multi-tiered system—which 
includes corporate governance, site-based EHS leadership and business unit involvement, and 
additional committees and reviews. Likewise, we monitor our safety performance at the enterprise, 
regional, and site levels. Our corporate EHS team uses Lam’s global incident tracking system to 
assess and monitor safety trends, which it reports to business units and executive leadership 
through quarterly reviews. Our recordable injury rate is reported to the Board on a quarterly basis.
In 2021, Lam onboarded a large volume of new employees and ramped up production to meet 
increased customer demand. These factors, along with an aging workforce, contributed to a rise 
in our recordable injury rate. Strains and sprains continue to be our top mode of injury, and in 2021, 
we added a new physical training program, increased our general health and safety training, and 
performed more ergonomic assessments with the goal of reducing ergonomic injuries globally.
Our safety standards also extend to our contractors. We screen contractor safety performance 
and require their compliance with the safety standards set forth in our Contractor Handbook. 
Contractors must report safety incidents so that we can take formal actions if contractors fail to 
adhere to our standards.
We maintain multi-site certifications for ISO 45001, the 
globally recognized standard for occupational health 
and safety management systems.INNOVATION SPOTLIGHT
Holding steady: A handy solution improves quality and safety
We specialize in delivering big solutions through the smallest technologies. To do this, our metrology 
staff uses high-powered microscopes to examine each small wafer sample for quality control. The 
task requires them to physically prepare each sample and hold it steadily in place for test after 
test—potentially leading to repetitive motion injuries. For a more ergonomic and efficient solution, 
engineering technician Albert Wright designed a Sample Cradle Holder and Sample Preparation 
Station, which assist technicians like a “third hand.” The tools are currently in use at our Fremont, 
California, and Tualatin, Oregon, labs, enabling technicians to perform their tasks more comfortably 
and thoroughly while improving the image quality of each test result.
Lam Research
| 50
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXSafety performance
53,000
hours employee safety training
65%
injuries attributed to strains, sprains 
and slips, trips, and falls
All safety data is reflective of Lam operations with the 
exception of our Silfex sites.Our risk assessments and training programs
Our site and regional EHS teams use a layered approach to conduct annual safety risk assessments of their local operations. In 2021, these assessments comprised 
increased COVID-19 employee protection protocols, including face coverings use and social distancing. We conducted more than 206,000 Risk Management by Walking 
Around inspections—a process that we use to identify and track safety issues, as well as implement corrective actions at our offices and manufacturing sites. Similarly, 
our field teams use a Rapid Field Risk Assessment process to manage risks at customer sites.
Our people managers in field support, manufacturing, research and development, warehouse, and logistics operations all undergo formal safety leadership training 
to enhance their skills in safety management and communication. We also continued our Safety Awareness for Everyone (SAFE) program, which we use to update 
employees on emerging safety issues. We employ SAFE to prevent future issues by including lessons and stories based on incidents of the past.
Keeping employees safe during COVID-19
As the COVID-19 pandemic posed ongoing safety risks in 2021, we continued to take steps to protect our workers and reduce the risk of transmission in our workplaces. We 
continuously adapted our strategy and practices through a science-based approach, and we adjust to new governmental and regulatory regulations where and when needed.
Employees were informed of safety best practices through trainings, updated signage, videos, frequent communication from leadership, and updates via our dedicated internal 
COVID-19 website. For our onsite workers, we employed administrative, engineering, and environmental controls such as face masks, temperature monitoring, social distancing, 
sanitization, workforce segmentation, enhanced indoor air quality controls, and offered free onsite testing and vaccination clinics. We also focused on expanded workplace 
flexibility to improve and allow for remote work where possible.
Recordable injury rate (Lam vs. industry)
0.7 0.7 0.7
0.330.34
0.260.40At or Below
0.4
2018 2019 2020 2021Number of incidents per 100 employees per yearIndustry avg
Lam rate
Lam target
Note: Rate based on 100 employees working full time for one year. Data as of April 2022. Certain historical figures have 
been updated to reflect new reported cases received. 2021 industry average was not available at time of publication.
Lam Research| 51
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXRESPONSIBLE
SUPPLY CHAIN
We use our scale 
and influence to 
inspire positive 
change.
Lam Research
| 52
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXLam’s business is part of a complex global supply chain that propels technology forward. 
Over the past few years, surging consumer demand has led to shortages of integrated 
circuits and sub-tier components throughout the semiconductor ecosystem, as well 
as increased cost pressures. As we meet these challenges, we continue to prioritize a 
responsible supply chain and continually monitor and manage risks. We are committed 
to fostering a supply chain that is ethical, resilient, and diverse. Our focus on critical 
issues in our supply chain include human rights, conflict mineral sourcing, and the 
environmental impact of climate change. As part of our commitment to driving industry 
collaboration, we are an active participant in several multi-stakeholder organizations 
such as the Responsible Business Alliance.
In 2021, we established a new foundational supply chain strategy and began our 
engagement with suppliers to make progress toward our 2050 decarbonization goal. As 
we begin this journey, we are committed to providing ongoing support and resources to 
suppliers that create shared value for our business, our value chain, our customers, and 
the world. When our suppliers succeed, Lam and our customers succeed, too.RELEVANT SDGSResponsible supply chain*
GOALGOAL STATUSSTATUS PROGRESS TO DATEPROGRESS TO DATE
Achieve more than 90% 
compliance rate with our social and 
environmental expectations across 
our top-tier suppliers •Exceeded our goal with 92% 
supplier compliance in 2021
Engage with at least 50% of our 
top-tier suppliers on environmental 
sustainability opportunities •Exceeded our goal by engaging with 
73% of top-tier suppliers in 2021
Increase engagement with all 
suppliers on social and environmental 
topics through assessment, training, 
and capacity building •Undertook a variety of engagement 
activities such as one-on-one 
meetings, assigned trainings, and 
supplier events in 2021
80% of top direct suppliers by spend 
set science-based targets by 2025 
and 95% by 2030 •This goal was set in 2021 and 
progress will be reported in our 
2022 report
2021 highlights
 •Adopted supplier engagement platform
 •Featured ESG in our virtual Supplier Day
 •Developed net zero supplier engagement strategy
*We aim to achieve goals by 2025, unless otherwise stated.
Lam Research
| 53
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXEmbedding ESG across our 
global supply chain
A responsible, ethical supply chain is integral to our business strategy. It builds resilience, makes 
us more competitive, and supports workers throughout our value chain. Over the past several 
years, we have refined our approach to ESG management and performance in our supply chain. 
In 2020, we introduced a strategic framework with six pillars:
Transparency
Responsibility
GovernanceTraining
Risk Assessment 
and Audit
Supplier
Diversity
Building upon this framework, 2021 was a year of establishing baselines, planning resources, and 
aligning around our 2025 goals and ambitions. For example, we:
 •Created a baseline of current supplier performance using ESG criteria
 •Leveraged advanced technology solutions for supplier surveys, risk assessment, and 
engagement
 •Implemented an engagement strategy for communicating compliance, regulatory, and ESG 
challenges and trends
 •Established a cross-functional approach to supplier diversity
 •Identified opportunities within key commodities to address environmental impacts
Lam Research
| 54
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXProactively managing our supply chain
With a supply chain footprint that spans over 25 countries on  
six continents, Lam has a robust and active approach to engaging  
with suppliers, which begins with strong supply chain oversight  
and governance.
Our ESG Supply Chain team leads our compliance and risk assessment 
efforts to drive continuous improvement throughout our supply chain. 
We also maintain a cross-functional Supply Chain Committee 
comprised of representatives from our direct and indirect supply 
chain teams; environmental, health, and safety; ethics and compliance; 
and ESG. The Committee meets regularly to identify opportunities, 
develop plans, and provide input on the implementation of responsible 
supply chain initiatives throughout our business.We expect all third-party suppliers and contractors to operate in a legal, 
ethical, and compliant manner and abide by our Global Supplier Code 
of Conduct, which covers topics such as ethics, integrity, transparency, 
anti-corruption, conflict minerals, human trafficking, environmental 
sustainability, and social responsibility. Suppliers are required to 
acknowledge and agree to the Code during the onboarding process, 
and our standard terms and conditions of supplier purchase orders and 
purchasing contracts stipulate the Code as a contractual obligation. 
We expect our suppliers to adhere to the Responsible Business Alliance 
(RBA) Code of Conduct. This code is a set of standards that address 
labor and wages, environment, health, safety as well as ethics and 
management systems expectations in our supply chains. We expect 
adherence to our code of conduct and encourage our suppliers to 
become active RBA members and complete an annual RBA self-
assessment questionnaire (SAQ).
2021 Country of origin  
direct material spend
North America 52.2% Asia 41.9%European Union 5.9%
Our supply chain at a glance
1,450  
supplier families in over 25 countries
Minerals sourced from smelters in
54 countries1.7%
spend with diverse suppliers
269
human rights trainings as stated in 
UK Modern Slavery Act
Lam Research
| 55
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXHow we evaluate suppliers
We use a risk-based approach to conduct due diligence assessments on our highest risk suppliers. 
Our due diligence activities may involve audits, inspections, and corrective actions where needed. 
We are committed to driving continuous improvement throughout our supply chain.
As our supply chain becomes larger, more complex, and faces new disruptions, we are enhancing 
the tools we use to support suppliers and evaluate their performance. In 2021, we onboarded a new 
supplier engagement platform that will make ESG communication, surveys, and progress tracking 
simpler and more accessible. We will be able to import many types of data to this platform, including 
survey findings on conflict minerals, GHG emissions, and human rights issues.
Another way that we assess our suppliers’ performance is through our Quality Management System 
Assessment (QMS). This comprehensive assessment covers several topics such as forced labor/child 
labor, information security, foreign trade, and more conducted via survey and onsite visits. QMS is 
required for every new supplier and we reassess existing suppliers regularly. In 2021, we conducted 16 
QMS audits.
We utilize a monthly supplier scorecard and incorporate ESG components as bonus points. Currently 
designation as a diverse supplier, membership with the RBA, and ISO 14001 certification each count 
as a bonus point on the scorecard.
Ensuring our shared success
Lam works closely with suppliers to assess programs and policies, share best practices, and 
encourage collaboration to help them succeed. We host Town Halls with our top suppliers and 
hold an annual Supplier Day, an event designed to strengthen collaborative relationships and 
create opportunities to drive continuous improvements in the supply chain.
During Supplier Day 2021, Jami Haaning, Lam’s senior manager of ESG, spoke about our ESG 
commitment and expectations of suppliers related to these issues. We also announced the 
winners of our Supplier Excellence Awards, given since 2005, to companies demonstrating 
exceptional commitment to outstanding performance. The main award categories are for General 
Excellence, Ramp Performance, and Rapid Prototype Manufacturing Performance and Excellence. 
In 2020, we added an award for ESG. The 2021 winner of this award will be announced at our 
inaugural ESG Forum in 2022.
Lam Research
| 56
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXWorking together for a greener world: 
Our focus on supplier environmental 
performance
A critical issue on which we engage suppliers is their environmental performance, particularly their reduction of GHG emissions. 
Lam’s goal to achieve net zero emissions by 2050 is inclusive of the emissions in our supply chain. We have established interim 
goals to set us on the right track. By 2025, we aim for 80% of our top-tier suppliers by spend to set their own science-based 
targets for emissions reductions. By 2030, we expect 95% of top-tier suppliers to set these targets. Learn more about our goals 
for a responsible supply chain .
We are laying the foundation for future progress through technology, data collection, capacity building, and engagement. In 
2021, we expanded our environmental survey to our top 100 suppliers. This survey focuses on GHG emissions, CDP scores, 
environmental goals, ISO 14001 certification, and RBA membership status. We prioritized our supplier engagement based on their 
tier and the amount of Lam spend. Using our new supplier engagement platform, we will gather more information about suppliers’ 
GHG baselines and then work with suppliers to establish SBTs. Moving forward, we will engage with suppliers on our evolving 
expectations and build incentives to motivate them to meet emissions reduction goals.
Peter Holland
vice president, 
supply chain
“We believe that engagement and 
collaboration with our supply chain 
is one of the most effective ways 
to make a meaningful and lasting 
impact on our greenhouse  
gas emissions.”
Lam Research
| 57
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXActing with intention to uphold  
human rights
Dignified, safe work is a fundamental human right. Just as important as continuous improvement on environmental performance is ensuring 
the health and protection of workers in our extended supply chain. We are committed to upholding human rights in our operations and in 
our supply chain. We take action to prevent labor violations and promote better working conditions wherever we do business—this includes 
complying with laws such as the UK Modern Slavery Act of 2015, and the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010.
Our Global Supplier Code of Conduct lays out our expectations of suppliers, while our Global Employment Practices Statement declares our 
support of workers’ rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining, to the extent permitted under local laws. These documents 
are distributed via email, published through our intranet, and made publicly available on our external website.
A potential risk present in manufacturing supply chains is the exploitation of migrant workers who travel to places of work in different 
countries. We work with specific suppliers to understand workers’ journeys and require all suppliers to enact policies that prohibit forced 
and bonded labor in any form. To prioritize due diligence and risk mitigation, we use the Slavery and Trafficking Risk Template (STRT). We 
sent this survey to our top 100 suppliers located in countries identified as high risk for human trafficking in 2020. And in 2021, we followed 
up with suppliers based on their results, asking them to provide evidence of compliance with company policies, re-sign our Supplier Code of 
Conduct, and, as necessary, undergo training on Lam’s prohibition of forced labor.
Our suppliers and their employees are encouraged to use the Lam Ethics Helpline to report concerns related to human trafficking and 
forced labor, as well as any other ethical issues. We did not receive any reports from our suppliers regarding human rights issues in 2021.
Conducting due diligence on  
conflict minerals
As part of a responsible and ethical raw material sourcing strategy, Lam is a member of the Responsible Mineral Initiative (RMI). The 
objective of this multi-stakeholder organization is to help address egregious human rights issues in the mining of tin, tantalum, tungsten, 
gold, and other minerals of concern.
Since 2012, we have used the Conflict Minerals Reporting Template developed by RMI to assess our suppliers. From our 2021 smelter due 
diligence exercise, Lam suppliers used RMI approved smelters in 54 smelter countries. In 2021, 92% of suppliers in scope responded to 
this survey. In 2022, we plan to update our due diligence efforts to include additional minerals of concern (such as cobalt and mica), as 
recommended by RMI. Our conflict minerals disclosures are available here .Promoting supply chain excellence 
through RBA
Since 2019, Lam has been an affiliate member of the RBA, 
the world’s largest industry coalition dedicated to corporate 
responsibility in global supply chains. To ensure our own 
operations and supply chain adhere to RBA requirements, we 
conduct self-assessments to determine our greatest social, 
environmental, and ethical risks. We also encourage suppliers to 
join us in becoming RBA members.
In 2021, two of our top 10 suppliers, equating to 14% of our spend, 
joined the RBA. With these new additions, 31% of our total spend 
is now with RBA member suppliers.
Beyond general RBA membership, we participate in the multi-
industry Responsible Labor Initiative (RLI) and RMI, which 
guide our approaches to protecting human rights and ensuring 
responsible sourcing of conflict minerals, respectively.
Lam Research
| 58
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXFostering supply chain 
diversity
We recognize the value of building relationships with small and diverse suppliers, including 
minority-, women-, LGBTQIA+-, and veteran-owned businesses, and those owned by people with 
disabilities. These diverse businesses drive economic growth and stability in local communities, and 
our relationships with them help Lam build a more competitive and flexible supply base.
We use diverse suppliers that meet our company’s standards and customer needs and implement 
measures to identify diverse suppliers during the onboarding process. We include diversity performance 
in our supplier scorecard, and track and report spending with diverse direct material suppliers on a 
quarterly basis. We use this data to facilitate a cross-functional approach to supplier diversity.
The pandemic posed particular challenges with many of our suppliers globally. With KNT 
Manufacturing, Inc., with whom we’ve worked closely for many years, we were able to overcome 
many of those challenges together.
“ As we all know, the impact the COVID-19 pandemic has had and is still having on how 
businesses operate, and how employees and their families respond, is unparalleled. We found 
our employees feeling more anxious, somewhat isolated and overwhelmed, but still courageously 
motivated even through the pandemic as we grew over 55% from 2020 – 2021. Our growth can 
be attributed to the constant partnership and business opportunities provided to us by Lam.  
 
Although a lot of businesses felt the strain of the pandemic, we felt relieved as our customer-
supplier relationship with Lam remained intact and is still as strong as ever. Lam has always 
fostered a culture of connection with KNT which has constantly been so inviting it left us no 
alternative but to respond with growth, productivity, and excellence to meet their business and 
product needs.”
—Vincent Mays
senior director, business systems & compliance, KNT25
diverse suppliers
$113M
total spend with diverse suppliers
50%
increase in diverse supplier 
spending over 2020
Lam Research
| 59
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXOUR
COMMUNITIES
We endeavor to 
make a positive 
impact where 
we live, work, 
and play.
Lam Research
| 60
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXOur communities sustain us. They’re the schools that nurture our children, the 
hospitals that care for our loved ones, and the neighbors who make the places where 
we live and work feel like home. So, when we see an opportunity to lend a hand, we 
seize it. And when we see a path to advance underrepresented talent, we pave it. Our 
culture of caring drives us to inspire young learners, take a stand for what’s right, and 
deploy resources to those in need.
For maximum impact, we harness the knowledge and resources of philanthropic 
organizations on the ground and the passion and power of Lam employees across 
the world. In 2021, the Lam Foundation—administered in partnership with the 
Silicon Valley Community Foundation—focused on delivering K-12 STEM education 
and quality-of-life programs that address human needs, youth support,  health 
improvement, and disaster relief. We are proud to not only make an impact that we can 
measure, but one that we can also feel.
Our new social impact platform—Powering Breakthroughs Together—will further 
enable us to address pressing sustainability issues and achieve our company purpose 
to unleash the power of innovation together for a better world.RELEVANT SDGSCommunity*
GOALGOAL STATUSSTATUS PROGRESS TO DATEPROGRESS TO DATE
Determine key targets for  
larger-scale impact aligned to  
a new strategic focus •Goal achieved by launching 
strategic planning process to 
transform our philanthropic 
identity and targets
Implement measurement of 
outcomes for key program and  
large-scale grants •Not yet started
Increase annual unique employee 
participation rate from 10% to 30% •Reached 10% employee 
participation in 2021
Increase volunteer hours by 33% 
from 2019 baseline •Volunteer hours at 95% of 2019 
baseline due to COVID-19 impact
2021 highlights
 •Created Powering Breakthroughs Together social impact platform
 •Donated $6.2M to support our communities
 •Served 1,552 worldwide organizations
 •Contributed $30,000+ gifts in annual Deliver Joy campaign
*We aim to achieve goals by 2025, unless otherwise stated.
Lam Research
| 61
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXPowering Breakthroughs Together
At Lam, we realize potential and inspire innovation. Powering Breakthroughs Together is our new social impact 
platform that will help us do just that. Developed in 2021 and launching in 2022, this platform will empower people 
to make sustainable progress at scale, with the objective of making meaningful and measurable impact in three 
strategic focus areas:
Transformative learning
We know that curiosity and inspired 
learning power  breakthroughs, which 
is why we  invest in the ongoing 
foundational elements that lead to 
continuous  discoveries  
and innovations.Resilient communities
We invest in resilient communities 
—strengthening the relationships, 
technology, and preparedness 
and recovery plans that enable 
communities to succeed in  
the face of adversity.
Inclusive societies
We believe successful societies 
are inclusive societies. Through 
investments that facilitate equitable 
access and opportunity, we level the 
playing field and help communities 
reach their full potential.
We look forward to sharing progress against our social impact objectives as we 
leverage this new platform in 2022 and beyond.Christie Valdez
director of community 
relations, ESG
“In line with our guiding principles, we 
act with purpose for a better world. 
We’re excited to advance our ESG 
priorities even further through our  
new Powering Breakthroughs  
Together social  
impact platform.”
Our social impact manifesto
For more than forty years, we’ve defied conventions.
Challenged assumptions.
Pushed the boundaries of technical limitations.
But we know, technology alone doesn’t enable breakthroughs.
People do.
They think big to build better communities.
To create safer, more sustainable systems.
To relentlessly pursue innovation that delivers real impact.
When people are empowered to collectively reimagine tomorrow,
we power a better world for generations to come.
Lam Research
| 62
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXImproving quality of life so 
our communities thrive
As a global business that specializes in problem solving and innovation, we use our talent and 
resources to support underserved populations and improve quality of life for those in need. 
Through Lam Foundation grants and matching gift campaigns, we have a proud history of 
contributing to a stronger and more equitable society for all.
Standing with the AAPI community
Intolerance toward others has no place at Lam or in our communities. In response to acts of 
hate and discrimination against the Asian American Pacific Islander (AAPI) community, our 
company spoke out to condemn these actions and through our Foundation we donated  
$1 million to support programs and initiatives that fight racism and violence. The funds were 
dispersed between Asian Americans Advancing Justice-AAJC , Stop AAPI Hate , and the Asian 
Pacific Fund’s Solidarity Fund .COVID-19 relief and recovery
In 2020, we created a $7M COVID-19 relief and recovery fund that we continued to 
disperse in 2021 to provide much needed aid in countries around the world. In India, 
home to 8% of our employees, we were devastated to see the country experience one of 
the worst COVID-19 surges globally.
In response, we donated $1 million, which included $700,000 to Direct Relief and 
$300,000 to United Way Bengaluru (UWBe), to aid our communities in need. We worked 
with UWBe to organize four vaccination drives at local schools, during which nearly 900 
students, school staff members, and immediate family members received their first dose 
of the vaccine. Through UWBe, we also supported the creation of a state-of the-art 18-
bed pediatric intensive care facility at the Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences.
Additional COVID-19 recovery support:
 •Arizona  - Meals for front-line workers and volunteers in vaccine distribution areas
 •Austria  - Support for Caritas Carinthia Association’s housing, counseling, and 
childcare services for those experiencing the longer-term impact of COVID-19
 •Malaysia  - Treatment and medication subsidies for cancer patients with COVID-19 
related financial hardships
 •Ohio  - Technology and support resources for virtual and hybrid learning models for 
hundreds of students
 •Oregon  - Education, tutoring, and mental wellness resources to combat learning loss 
attributed to virtual learning as well as support for transition into hybrid learning
Giving at Lam
12%
employee participation13,000
employee hours volunteered
$1.1M
employee matching gifts$5.1M
total Lam donations$1 million
donated to fight racial intolerance 
against the AAPI community
$1 million
donated to provide COVID-19 
relief in India
Rajesh Krishnan
executive director,  
UWBe 
“What stands out to me while 
working with Lam is the intrinsic 
qualities that the team embodies, 
which speak volumes about the 
company’s culture.”
5National Geographic: https://www.nationalgeographic.com/science/article/how-indias-second-wave-became-the-worst-covid-19-surge-in-the-world
Lam Research| 63
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXPowering tomorrow’s  
technology leaders
Today’s young thinkers, dreamers, and creators will drive the future of our industry. To help them succeed, 
in 2021 we supported K-12 STEM programs that inspire and equip students to become the next generation 
of technology leaders. From scholarships to donations, our STEM education support shows young people 
just how fun and exciting a career in math and science can be, while providing opportunities and resources 
to build valuable skills.
K-12 STEM programs and scholarships
We proudly work with organizations to engage early learners with a focus on those underrepresented in 
STEM careers. Our support extends to programs around the world that address achievement and gender gap 
challenges, secondary education preparedness, education quality improvement, and workforce readiness.
Core Values scholarships
Each year, the Lam Foundation awards a series of $10,000 scholarships to graduating seniors from select 
schools near our headquarters and in the Pacific Northwest. Community leaders, along with Lam 
employees, review applications and choose students who perform exceptionally in academics, as well  
as in their communities.
Awardees can use the scholarship at the college or technical school of their choice. In our 18th year of the 
program, we awarded $110,000 in scholarships to 11 students from high schools in California and Oregon. 
Since 2003, we have awarded more than $1 million in scholarships to more than 100 promising students.
Saumya Chauhan
Core Values Scholarship 
recipient
“For me, coding has become a creative 
outlet that enables me to combine my 
passions for storytelling, design, and 
analytical thinking in a challenging, 
dynamic way. I want to continue to  
do just that at college and in  
the workforce.”Building brighter futures through STEM education support
North America
Eureka! program
In Oregon, we continued our relationship with Girls Inc. of the Pacific Northwest to enable 98 
girls, grades 8–12, in underserved communities to explore STEM through Eureka!, a five-year, 
personal development and sports program.
Latinx in Technology
In California, our ongoing relationship with the Hispanic Foundation of Silicon Valley provided 
146 Latinx students with scholarships in 2021 and a pipeline toward summer internships. The 
program has a goal of awarding 50% of its scholarships to women.
STEM Learning Academy
Founded in Springfield, Ohio, the Springfield High School STEM Learning Academy provides 
STEM education for its students. On behalf of our subsidiary Silfex, we supported STEM 
program supplies and experiences for more than 1,800 Springfield High School students.
Asia
Adream Centers
In Sichuan Province, China, we supported 
the Adream organization, which provides 
a quality education to primary school 
students in underprivileged communities. 
We funded the 5-year operation of two 
new Adream Centers—networks of 
multimedia classrooms where more than 
2,000 students can take lessons.
Hello Coding Camp
In South Korea, we partnered with the Kids & Future Foundation to support 83 Yongin City students' 
participation in the Hello Coding Camp afterschool program.
Robotics and Coding program
In Taiwan, we continued our support of the Science and Technology Museum’s coding and robotics 
programs for 161 elementary and junior high school students from remote and disadvantaged areas.
Crucial School Supplies
Through our India community program, we supported the Sri Sharadha Vidya Mandir school in their efforts 
to provide educational supplies and textbooks to more than 900 Bengaluru students.
Lam Research
| 64
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXHarnessing the passion of 
our employees
Our employees are passionate about making a positive impact in the communities where  
we live and work. To support the causes they care about, we offer a dollar-for-dollar match  
on employees’ monetary donations. The Lam Foundation also matches volunteer time at  
$10 per hour for all regular full-time employees. In 2021, we mobilized employees to raise  
$1.1M in employee-matched monetary and volunteer time donations and contribute  
12,781 volunteer hours to various organizations. Highlights include:
Giving back to communities in need
Our annual holiday giving campaign, Deliver Joy, continued with employees around the  
world donating gifts and resources to those in need. From coloring books for kids to care 
packages for seniors, here’s how Lam employees gave back to their communities during  
the 2020-21 holiday season:
China —In just two weeks, 33 Lam employees mobilized to donate over 500 books, 185 coloring 
books, and 60 sets of oil-painting sticks to students in Sichuan Province, where we recently 
funded two new Adream Centers.
Malaysia —To brighten the season for patients at a cancer hospital, Lam Manufacturing Malaysia 
employees delivered over 150 gifts to patients at Mount Miriam Hospital in Penang.
South Korea —In Icheon, Lam employees donated gift cards to 452 students at 19 children’s 
centers through ChildFund Korea, as well as heating supplies for 125 children at five local 
centers in Pyeongtaek. In Osan, employees involved in the Fun Makers program supported  
63 children from low-income families with their year-end toy drive.
U.S.—For an interactive giving opportunity that supports mental wellness, Lam employees 
distributed 500 Kynd Kits that included care packages for seniors in assisted living and sensory 
kits for children in foster care.
Setting students up for success
Despite the economic strength of Silicon Valley companies, the families of many 
students in the area struggle to meet basic needs—let alone afford backpacks and 
other school supplies. To narrow the equity gap, our Women in Leadership at Lam 
ERG supports Family Giving Tree’s annual Backpack Comeback drive in Milpitas, 
California. The 12-day virtual event, where employees filled backpacks at home, 
resulted in 1,200 filled backpacks for students, representing a 140% increase over 
the first drive in 2017. In total, Lam employees have assembled 4,330 backpacks 
over the past five years.Backpacks assembled
1,200
in 2021
4,330
since 2017
Lam Research
| 65
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXProtecting outdoor spaces
In Boise, Idaho, nine Lam employees volunteered with the Ridge to Rivers organization 
to spend half their day helping with shaping and finishing work for a new section of trail. 
The trail area was constructed to allow for better erosion protection in the Boise foothills 
and will lend itself to hikers, bikers, and other outdoor enthusiasts throughout the area.
Giving clothing a second life
In China, our employees organized a used clothing recycling program, collecting 167 
kilograms of used clothes and textiles which have been donated to a national recycling 
platform for reuse. These recycled fabrics will be given to those in need or made into 
regenerated cotton.
Promoting healthy habits
As the title sponsor of the Lam Research Heart & Soles Run, we support the Silicon 
Valley Leadership Group Foundation’s (SVLGF) work to promote increased physical 
activity and access to healthy foods among students in Silicon Valley—because kids 
who exercise and eat better, learn better. Though a virtual Run/Walk in 2021, 119 Lam 
employees supported this effort that benefited 8,000 Silicon Valley youth.Fighting back against hunger
In Villach, Austria, employees volunteered more than 10 hours with the local food pantry 
and humanitarian services organization, Westbahnhoffnug Villach, to prepare meals for 
those in need.
Planting trees
In Taiwan, employees organized a tree planting activity, enlisting the participation of 
colleagues and their families. The event focused on planting tree varieties that can resist 
erosion and protect coastline to preserve a sustainable habitat for migratory birds.
Bringing a smile to children and families
Lam Korea employees participated in a toy drive that benefited 300 children through 
our collaboration with the Korea Childhood Leukemia Foundation. Additionally, the 
Lam Korea Employee Council raised money for ChildFund Korea programs providing 
education needs and support for low-income families at local children’s centers.
Walking to make an impact
In Singapore, 140 employees laced up to support the Singapore Children’s Society’s 
annual Walk for Our Children to benefit programs and services for vulnerable youth. We 
have proudly sponsored the walk since 2015.
Wolfgang Hiden
CPG program manager, 
Lam Villach 
 “To cook together with Lam colleagues is an 
opportunity to positively impact  
our community and build relationships  
as a team. Volunteering at  
Westbahnhoffnug Villach always  
brings a strong sense of  
purpose—and a lot  
of laughter.”
Lam Research
| 66
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXAPPENDIX
Lam Research
| 67
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXPerformance Summary *
Data as of 12/31/2021.
Performance Area 2021 YOY Change 2020 2019
Business and Governance
Number of full-time employees (Approximate) 16,300 33% 12,228 10,750
Revenue1$14.6 46% $10.0B $9.7B
R&D spend (as percentage of operating expenses) $1.5B (64%) 19% $1.3B (63%) $1.2B (63%)
Products and Customers
Total number of installed base chambers (Approximate) 75,000 14% 66,000 61,000
Workplace
Gender Representation
Percent of employee population identifying as female (Global) 19.5% 5% 18.6% 17.7%
Percent of employee population identifying as female (U.S) 22.0% 3% 21.3% 20.4%
Percent of new hires identifying as female (Global) 21.8% -9% 23.9% N/A
U.S. Ethnicity
White 50.5% —% 50.5% 51.4%
Asian 30% -3% 30.9% 30.8%
Hispanic or Latinx 7.0% 6% 6.6% 6.1%
Two or more races 2.9% 30% 2.2% 1.9%
Black or African American 2.6% 24% 2.1% 1.9%
Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander 0.7% 30% 0.5% 0.5%
American Indian or Native Alaskan 0.4% 43% 0.3% 0.3%
Not stated 5.9% -15% 6.9% 7.1%
Employee Engagement, Recruitment, and Retention
Employee engagement score (Tech sector benchmark 74) 80 —% 80 new
Total new hires (Global) 4,507 54% 2067 712
Number of internal promotions 1,936 16% 1,626 1,370
Total number of training courses 4,548 -3% 4,700 3,042
Education reimbursement for U.S. employees $1.98M 20% $1.65M $1.36M
Employee retention rate 93% -2% 95% 91%
Average service years 6.5 -16% 7.7 8
Safety
Recordable injury rate 0.40 60% 0.26 0.34
Risk Management by Walking Around (RMBWA) reviews 206,000 20% 172,050 200,000Performance Area 2021 YOY Change 2020 2019
Responsible Supply Chain
Total number of supplier families 1,450 -1% 1,459 --
Percent of spending on local suppliers (N. America) 66% 34% 49% --
Total number of diverse suppliers 25 —% 25 4
Total spending on diverse suppliers $113M 49% $76M $34M
Sustainable Operations
Energy and Climate
Energy consumption (Million kWh) 402 14% 352 330
Percent renewables (U.S.) 54% 80% 30% 32%
GHG emissions Scopes 1 and 2 market-based (MTCO2e) 107,185 -7% 114,672 118,458
Scope 1 emissions (MTCO2e) 50,664 31% 38,788 36,162
Scope 2 emissions location-based (MTCO2e) 109,627 26% 87,170 83,513
Scope 2 emissions market-based (MTCO2e) 56,521 -26% 75,884 82,296
GHG emissions Scope 3 (MTCO2e) 6.7M N/A N/A 4.9M
Volatile organic compounds (Metric tons) 148 36% 109 26
Waste
Hazardous waste recycling rate 24% 6% 22.4% 30.4%
Non-hazardous waste recycling rate 71% 1% 70% 55%
Water
Water usage (Million gallons) 378 29% 292 276
Water usage in water-stressed regions (Million gallons) 144 27% 114 112
Ultra-pure water usage (Million gallons) 111  -8% 120 80 
Number of environmental fines 3 50% 2 0
Community
Total giving by the Lam Research Foundation $5.1M 42% $3.6M $3.4M
COVID-19 Relief and Recovery Fund giving $1.7M -67% $5.1M --
Employee volunteer hours 12,781 7% 11,993 13,400
Employee matching gifts $1.1M -35% $1.7M $971K
Number of charity organizations supported 1,552 -5% 1,640 1,936
* All figures are for calendar year, with the exception of revenue and R&D spend which are presented on a fiscal year basis. 2019 is for fiscal year ending June 30, 2019; 2020 is for fiscal year 
ending June 28, 2020; 2021 is for fiscal year ending June 27, 2021. K is defined as thousand, M is defined as million, and B is defined as billion.
Lam Research
| 68
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXGRI index
GRI Standard Disclosure Response, Page, or Link.
102 - General Disclosures
102-1 Name of the Organization Lam Research Corporation
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Introduction
Product
2021 10-K, Business, pp. 3-9
For additional information: https://www.lamresearch.com/products/products-overview/
102-3 Location of headquarters Fremont, California, USA
102-4 Location of operations Introduction
Country locations: United States, China, Korea, Austria, India, Japan, Malaysia, Singapore, Taiwan, Belgium, France, Germany, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Switzerland, The 
Netherlands, United Kingdom.
For additional information: https://www.lamresearch.com/company/locations/
102-5 Ownership and legal form The company's stock is publicly traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol LRCX.
102-6 Markets served Lam Research is a trusted, collaborative partner to the world’s leading semiconductor companies.
102-7 Scale of the organization Introduction
2021 10-K, Consolidated Statements of Operations, p. 41
102-8 Information on employees and other workers Workplace - U.S. gender and ethnicity
Appendix - 2021 Performance Summary
2021 10-K, Human Capital, p. 10
102-9 Supply chain Responsible Supply Chain
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Significant changes include: opening new manufacturing facilities in Bayan Lapas, Malaysia and Sherwood, Oregon.
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Lam affirms Principle 15 of the 1992 Rio Declaration that states, “...where there are threats of serious or irreversible damage, lack of full scientific certainty shall not be 
used as a reason for postponing cost-effective measures to prevent environmental degradation.”
102-12 External initiatives United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
Taskforce for Climate-related Financial Disclosure
Science-Based Targets Initiative
CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion Pledge
Alliance for Global Inclusion
Conference for Engineering Diversity
DEI Board
Anita B.org
Human Rights Campaign Foundation Corporate Equality Index
Responsible Minerals Initiative, Responsible Labor Initiative
Lam Research
| 69
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXGRI index  (continued)
GRI Standard Disclosure Response, Page, or Link.
102-13 Membership of associations East Bay Foundation, National Association of Manufacturers, Responsible Business Alliance, SEMI,  Semiconductor Industry Association,  Silicon Valley Community 
Foundation, and Watermark, US-India Strategic Partnership, Inc., US-Korea Business Council, US-Taiwan Business Council, US-China Business Council, Silicon Valley 
Leadership Group,
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Introduction - A message from our CEO
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Business and Governance
Sustainable Operations - Assessing climate risk
Refer to the Risk Factors disclosed in our public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Business and Governance - Our Values
Global Standards of Business Conduct
Global Supplier Code of Conduct
Code of Ethics
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Business and Governance - Conducting business with integrity - Investigations - Ethics Helpline
102-18 Governance structure https://investor.lamresearch.com/corporate-governance
Proxy Statement 2021 - pp. 13-16
102-19 Delegating authority Business and Governance - Lam’s ESG governance structure & primary responsibilities
Proxy Statement 2021 - pp. 18-19
102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, 
and social topicsCorporate Vice President of Corporate Communications
102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and 
social topicsBusiness and Governance - How We Engage Our Stakeholders
102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its 
committeeshttps://www.lamresearch.com/company/company-overview/#board-of-directors
https://investor.lamresearch.com/corporate-governance
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body The Chairman of the Board is an Independent Director
102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Proxy Statement 2021 - pp. 3, 4, 10-12, 57, 67-70
102-25 Conflicts of interest Proxy Statement 2021 - pp. 7, 9, 14, 29, 56
102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, 
and strategyBusiness and Governance - Leading with an ESG lens
102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Proxy Statement 2021 - p. 11
102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance Proxy Statement 2021 - p. 10
102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social 
impactsBusiness and Governance - Leading with an ESG lens
102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Business and Governance - Risk Management
Proxy Statement 2021 - pp. 14-16, 18
102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Business and Governance - Leading with an ESG lens
Lam Research
| 70
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXGRI index  (continued)
GRI Standard Disclosure Response, Page, or Link.
102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting Business and Governance - Leading with an ESG lens
Proxy Statement 2021 - pp. 18-19
102-33 Communicating critical concerns Critical concerns are elevated to the Board of the Directors by the executive management team.
102-35 Remuneration policies Proxy Statement 2021 - pp. 19-51
102-36 Process for determining remuneration Proxy Statement 2021 - pp. 19-51
102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration Proxy Statement 2021 - pp. 16-17, 27-28
102-38 Annual total compensation ratio Proxy Statement 2021 - p. 52
102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio Proxy Statement 2021 - p. 52, Proxy Statement 2020 - p. 50
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Business and Governance - How We Engage Our Stakeholders
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements No collective bargaining agreements
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Business and Governance - How We Engage Our Stakeholders
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Business and Governance - How We Engage Our Stakeholders
Creating an inclusive world involves valuing all perspectives and seeking insight from a variety of stakeholders. We regularly engage our key stakeholders in a  
spirit of collaboration and trust, seeking their feedback on ESG issues, and considering their perspectives when developing and managing our ESG objectives.  
Our engagement with stockholders on ESG topics continues to grow. It is a standard agenda item for our top stockholder meetings and in 2021, we met with  
19 stockholders holding approximately 35% of our shares outstanding.
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Business and Governance - How We Engage Our Stakeholders
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 2021 10-K, Exhibit 21
102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Business and Governance - Making an impact where it matters most
102-47 List of material topics Business and Governance - Making an impact where it matters most
102-48 Restatements of information 2020 Scope 3 upstream emissions increased from 1,327,895 MTCO2e to 1,329,984 MTCO2e due to updated methodology in calculating our CO2e emission from 
business travel.
2020 Scope 3 downstream emissions increased from 1,543,485 MTCO2e to 3,573,051 MTCO2e due to an updated dataset and methodology. We re-evaluated the 
electricity usage of a subset of our products and revised the average lifetime per product from eight years to 25 years.
2019 Scope 3 total emissions increased from 2.9M to 4.9M.
2020 Scope 1 emissions changed from 37,599 MTCO2e to 38,788 MTCO2e due to additional GHG usage from our manufacturing facility that was not  
previously accounted.
2020 total VOC emission changed from 107 metric tons to 109 metric tons based on updated solvent usage from one of our R&D facilities.
OSHA total recordable injury rate: 2018 - 0.29 to 0.33, 2019 - 0.33 to 0.34, 2020 - 0.25 to 0.26. Changes reflect data that was updated past the time of publication.
102-49 Changes in reporting No changes in reporting.
102-50 Reporting period January 1, 2021 - December 31, 2021
102-51 Date of most recent report June 2021
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report esg@lamresearch.com
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option.
102-55 GRI content index Yes. The GRI content index meets reporting requirements.
102-56 External assurance Environmental data is externally assured, with the exception of scope 3 emissions.
Lam Research
| 71
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXGRI index  (continued)
GRI Standard Disclosure Response, Page, or Link.
Economy
201 - Economic Performance
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary
103-2 The Management approach and its components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approachBusiness and Governance
2021 10-K, Consolidated Statements of Operations, p. 41
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Business and Governance
2021 10-K, Consolidated Statements of Operations, p. 41
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to 
climate changeBusiness and Governance - Leading with an ESG lens
Sustainable Operations - Decarbonizing the world, together
Appendix - TCFD Response
2021 10-K: pp. 16, 18, 21
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 2021 10-K: p. 70
We offer a competitive 401(k) benefit matching 50% of regular pre-tax contributions and/or regular Roth contributions on the first 6% of eligible pay that employees 
contribute to the plan. In 2021, 99% of our eligible employees received bonuses.
Stock awards are offered to senior and other selected employees. In 2021, 75% of our employees chose to invest in Lam through our employee stock purchase plan 
(ESPP). Eligible employees who work 20 hours or more per week may contribute up to 15% of their earnings to the ESPP (subject to statutory limits) and are eligible to 
purchase shares at a discount of at least 15%.
203 - Indirect Economic Impact
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary
103-2 The Management approach and its components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approachBusiness and Governance - Making an impact where it matters most
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Communities
205 - Anti-Corruption
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary
103-2 The Management approach and its components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approachBusiness and Governance - Conducting Business with Integrity
Global Standards of Business Conduct
Global Supplier Code of Conduct
Code of Ethics
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and 
proceduresBusiness and Governance
206 - Anti-Competitive Behavior
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary
103-2 The Management approach and its components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approachBusiness and Governance - Conducting Business with Integrity
Global Standards of Business Conduct
Global Supplier Code of Conduct
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and 
monopoly practicesNo legal actions  and $0 losses  as a result of  anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices.
Lam Research
| 72
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXGRI index  (continued
GRI Standard Disclosure Response, Page, or Link.
207 - Tax
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary
103-2 The Management approach and its components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approachBusiness and Governance - Global taxation
2021 10-K - pp. 8-9, 20, 41, 48, 55
United Kingdom Tax Strategy
207-4 Country-by-country reporting Lam Research does not provide country-by-country reporting on taxes, see 10-K references for overall reporting on taxes.
Environment
302 - Energy
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary
103-2 The Management approach and its components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approachBusiness and Governance - Making an impact where it matters most
Sustainable Operations
Responsible Supply Chain - Our focus on supplier environmental performance
2021 CDP Response
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Sustainable Operations - 2021 energy use by type
302-3 Energy intensity
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Sustainable Operations
Responsible Supply Chain - Our focus on supplier environmental performance
302 -5 Reduction in energy requirements of products and services Product - Sustainability drives product innovation
303 - Water and Effluents
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary
103-2 The Management approach and its components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approachSustainable Operations
2021 CDP Water Security
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Sustainable Operations - Protecting people and the environment from chemical risks
303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts Sustainable Operations - Protecting people and the environment from chemical risks, Wastewater: being a good steward
303-3 Water withdrawal Sustainable Operations - Water use, treatment and reclamation
303-4 Water discharge Sustainable Operations - Water use, treatment and reclamation
303-5 Water consumption Sustainable Operations - Water use, treatment and reclamation
Lam Research
| 73
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXGRI index  (continued)
GRI Standard Disclosure Response, Page, or Link.
305 - Emissions
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary
103-2 The Management approach and its components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approachBusiness and Governance - Making an impact where it matters most
Sustainable Operations
Responsible Supply Chain - Our focus on supplier environmental performance
2021 CDP Response
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions  Sustainable Operations - On the path to zero
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions  Sustainable Operations - On the path to zero
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions  Sustainable Operations - On the path to zero
305-4 GHG emissions intensity  Sustainable Operations - On the path to zero
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions  Sustainable Operations
306 - Waste
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary
103-2 The Management approach and its components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approachBusiness and Governance - Making an impact where it matters most
Sustainable Operations
306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts Sustainable Operations - Making the most of every material
306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts Sustainable Operations - Making the most of every material
306-3 Waste generated Sustainable Operations - Making the most of every material
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal Sustainable Operations - Making the most of every material
306-5 Waste directed to disposal Sustainable Operations - Making the most of every material
307 - Environmental Compliance
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary
103-2 The Management approach and its components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approachBusiness and Governance
Product
Sustainable Operations
Responsible Supply Chain
As of December 31, 2021, all Lam manufacturing and laboratory sites, with the exception of two recently opened or acquired sites, had been externally certified to be 
compliant with ISO International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001 certified, the recognized global standard for environmental management systems. We 
have two levels of environmental review:
* The corporate EHS team conducts regular assessments and audits of business risks, standards conformance, regulatory compliance, and management system 
effectiveness across Lam’s locations world-wide
* Our executive management reviews the findings of these assessments and audits and ensures non-conformances are adequately addressed A significant environmental 
aspect of our operations is chemical management, and we take all appropriate measures to keep our chemical operations safe and legally compliant. Our integrated 
inventory system connects real-time inventory to procurement, usage conditions, and regulatory reporting for our chemical users, handlers, and planners. We use this 
system to continuously identify and implement safety controls and report the use and treatment of chemicals in accordance with government regulations.
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations The global Lam sites had 25 regulatory agency inspections, including 18  health and safety inspections, and 7 environmental-related inspections. We received 3 
environmental Notice of Violations (NOVs) and paid $2,900 in total fines.
Lam Research
| 74
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXGRI index  (continued)
GRI Standard Disclosure Response, Page, or Link.
308 - Supplier Environmental Assessment
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary
103-2 The Management approach and its components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Responsible Supply Chain
We expect our suppliers to make every effort to  reduce impact on the environment by meeting standards established by applicable environmental legislation.
Social
103 - Management Approach to Social Topics
401 - Employment
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary
103-2 The Management approach and its components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approachBusiness and Governance - Making an impact where it matters most
Workplace
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Appendix - Performance summary
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided 
to temporary or part-time employeesWorkplace - Looking out for our employees’ well being
403 - Occupational Health and Safety
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary
103-2 The Management approach and its components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approachBusiness and Governance - Making an impact where it matters most
Workplace - Committed to safety
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system Workplace - Committed to safety
403-3 Occupational health services Workplace - Committed to safety
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on 
occupational health and safetyWorkplace - Committed to safety
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Workplace - Committed to safety
403-6 Promotion of worker health Workplace - Employee benefits
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety 
impacts directly linked by business relationshipsWorkplace - Committed to safety
403-9 Work-related injuries Workplace - Total recordable injury rate
404 - Training and Education
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary
103-2 The Management approach and its components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approachBusiness and Governance - Making an impact where it matters most
Workplace - Focusing on employee development
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Average hours of training per employee: 28 hours
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 
assistance programsWorkplace - Focusing on employee development
Lam Research
| 75
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXGRI index  (continued)
GRI Standard Disclosure Response, Page, or Link.
405 - Diversity and Equal Opportunity
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary
103-2 The Management approach and its components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approachBusiness and Governance - Making an impact where it matters most, Leading with an ESG lens
Workplace - Moving the needle on I&D
Corporate Governance Guidelines
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Workplace - Global gender representation, 2021 workforce representation https://www.lamresearch.com/company/company-overview/#board-of-directors
407 - Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary
103-2 The Management approach and its components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approachResponsible Supply Chain - Acting with intention to uphold human rights
Global Employment Practices Statement
407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of 
association and collective bargaining may be at riskLam is not aware of any operations or major direct suppliers in which right to freedom of association and collective bargaining (to the extent permitted under local 
laws) was at risk in 2021.
408 - Child Labor
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary
103-2 The Management approach and its components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approachResponsible Supply Chain - Acting with intention to uphold human rights, How we evaluate suppliers
Global Supplier Code of Conduct
408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of  
child laborLam is not aware of any operations or major direct suppliers that were at significant risk for incidents of child labor in 2021.
409 - Forced or Compulsory Labor
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary
103-2 The Management approach and its components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approachResponsible Supply Chain - Acting with intention to uphold human rights, How we evaluate suppliers 
Global Supplier Code of Conduct
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of 
forced or compulsory laborLam is not aware of any operations or major direct suppliers that were at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor in 2021. Lam respects human rights 
and is committed to adhering to humane business practices wherever the company does business, including complying with laws such as the UK Modern Slavery Act 
of 2015 and the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010.
Lam Research
| 76
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXGRI index  (continued)
GRI Standard Disclosure Response, Page, or Link.
412 - Human Rights Assessment
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary
103-2 The Management approach and its components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or 
impact assessmentsResponsible Supply Chain - Acting with intention to uphold human rights, How we evaluate suppliers
Global Supplier Code of Conduct
Our anti-slavery, child labor, and human trafficking due diligence includes compliance with the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA), 
which focuses on the prevention of North Korean forced labor.  As part of our supplier engagement, we require suppliers complete a self-assessment survey that 
supports our risk assessment process. We evaluate our top 100 suppliers with operations in high risk regions for human trafficking.
Since 2012, we conduct annual due diligence of our suppliers to determine the sources of any conflict minerals that may be contained in our products. We updated our 
conflict minerals due diligence program to include responsible sourcing of cobalt in 2019.
412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Responsible Supply Chain - Acting with intention to uphold human rights
412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include 
human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screeningResponsible Supply Chain - Acting with intention to uphold human rights, How we evaluate suppliers
Lam endeavors to include human rights provisions in contracts with its suppliers, as appropriate
413 - Local Communities
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary
103-2 The Management approach and its components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approachBusiness and Governance - Making an impact where it matters most
Community
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact 
assessments, and development programs Community
414 - Suppler Social Assessment
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary
103-2 The Management approach and its components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approachBusiness and Governance - Making an impact where it matters most
Responsible Supply Chain - Acting with intention to uphold human rights, How we evaluate suppliers
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Responsible Supply Chain - Acting with intention to uphold human rights, How we evaluate suppliers
Lam values a diverse supply chain and is committed to selecting diverse suppliers that offer goods and services that meet our company’s standards, supplier selection 
criteria, and customer requirements. Promoting a diverse supplier base is a priority for Lam, and we support a number of industry and customer initiatives around 
supplier diversity. Diversity is also included in our supplier scorecard, and we track and report spending with diverse direct material suppliers on a quarterly basis. We 
are using this data to facilitate a cross-functional approach to supplier diversity.
We are a member of the SEMI (formerly Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International) Manufacturing Ownership Diversity Task Force that promotes and 
shares best practices for manufacturing ownership diversity (more commonly known as “supplier diversity.”)"
Lam Research
| 77
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXGRI index  (continued)
GRI Standard Disclosure Response, Page, or Link.
415 - Public Policy
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary
103-2 The Management approach and its components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Business and Governance - Government Affairs
415-1 Political contributions Business and Governance - Government Affairs
No financial and in-kind political contributions made directly and indirectly. https://investor.lamresearch.com/static-files/7b18772f-f0be-4791-8800-f5118110f8d6
416 - Customer Health and Safety 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary
103-2 The Management approach and its components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approachBusiness and Governance - Making an impact where it matters most
Product - Leading product safety in our industry
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and 
service categoriesProduct - Leading product safety in our industry
418 - Customer Privacy
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary
103-2 The Management approach and its components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approachBusiness and Governance - Protecting data and intellectual property
418-1 Substantiated complaints regarding concerning breaches of 
customer privacy and losses of customer dataBusiness and Governance - Protecting data and intellectual property
In 2021, we did not experience any cyber incidents that resulted in a material adverse effect, nor any losses or breaches of customer data that resulted in a material 
adverse effect.
419 - Socioeconomic Compliance 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary
103-2 The Management approach and its components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approachBusiness and Governance - Making an impact where it matters most
419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and 
economic area2021 10-K, p. 71
Lam Research
| 78
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXSASB - Technology and communications - Semiconductors
Topic Code Accounting Metric Disclosure
Activity Metrics TC-SC-000.A Total production Approximately 9,000 chambers
TC-SC-000.B: Percentage of production from owned facilities All process modules are assembled, tested, and inspected for quality at Lam facilities.
GHG Emissions TC-SC-110a.1: (1) Gross global Scope 1 emissions
(2) amount of total emissions from perfluorinated compounds(1) 50,6644 MTCO2e
(2) 16,054 MTCO2e
TC-SC-110a.2: Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy or plan to manage Scope 1 
emissions, emissions reduction targets, and an analysis of performance against  
those targets.Sustainable Operations - Decarbonizing the world, together
Energy Management TC-SC-130a.1: (1) Total energy consumed
(2) percentage grid electricity
(3) percentage renewable(1) 406 million kWh
(2) 99%
(3) 54%
Water Management TC-SC-140a.1: (1) Total water withdrawn 
(2) total consumed percentage of each in regions with water High or Extremely High 
Baseline Water Stress(1) 377 million gallons
(2) 38%
Waste Management TC-SC-150a.1: (1) Amount of hazardous waste from manufacturing
(2) Percentage recycled"(1) 2,208 metric tons
(2) 24%
Employee Health and Safety TC-SC-320a.1: Description of efforts to assess, monitor, and reduce exposure of employees to human 
health hazards.Workplace - Committed to safety
TC-SC-320a.2: Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with 
employee health and safety violations$0
Recruiting and Managing a 
Global and Skilled WorkforceTC-SC-330a.1: Percentage of employees that are:  
(1) foreign nationals  
(2) located offshore"(1) Not disclosed.
(2) Not disclosed.
Lam Research does not believe this is a material metric to our business due to our global 
footprint. A breakdown of employees by region and other material human capital metrics are 
available in the Introduction section as well as in Workplace - Moving the needle on I&D.
Product Lifecycle 
ManagementTC-SC-410a.1: Percentage of products by revenue that contain IEC 62474 declarable substances Not disclosed.
Lam Research discloses information on our strategy and product value chains. We do not believe 
that percentage of revenue is a material metric to disclose.
TC-SC-410a.2: Processor energy efficiency at a system-level for: (1) servers, (2) desktops, and (3) 
laptopsNot Applicable.  Lam Research does not manufacture servers, desktops, or laptops.
Materials Sourcing TC-SC-440a.1 Description of the management of risks associated with the use of critical materials Product
Supply Chain
Intellectual Property 
Protection and Competitive 
BehaviorTC-SC-520a.1: Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with 
anticompetitive behavior regulations.$0
Lam Research
| 79
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXTCFD index
Disclosure Focus Area Recommended Disclosure Response Reference
Governance
Disclose the organization’s 
governance around climate-
related risks and opportunities.a) Describe the board’s oversight 
of climate-related risks and 
opportunities.Our Board is actively engaged in ESG oversight. The Nominating and Governance Committee has the primary 
responsibility for our ESG priorities, including reviewing our 2025, 2030, and 2050 climate and energy goals and 
our 2025 waste and water goals.  In 2021, management provided updates to the Board and its committees at 
least quarterly and engaged them to discuss ESG strategy, gain alignment on goals, and report on progress. The 
full Board reviews the annual ESG Report before it is published.CDP Climate Change 2021 C1.1a, C1.1b
b) Describe management’s role in 
assessing and managing climate-
related risks and opportunities.We formed a new Executive Steering Committee in 2020 to guide our ESG strategy, approve and support 
initiatives, and help keep us accountable. The CEO and members of the CEO staff participate on this 
committee which oversees the work driven by our cross-functional ESG Leadership Team.
In 2021, we formed a new net zero leadership team that is responsible for working with business units to 
integrate climate considerations into decision-making processes, driving progress on our net zero strategy, 
and tracking GHG performance on our climate goals. Each of our active working groups has an accountable 
executive responsible for the activity and progress toward our net zero goal.Introduction - Leading with an ESG lens
CDP Climate Change 2021 C1.1a, C1.1b, C1.2, C1.2a, 
C1.3, C1.3a
Strategy
Disclose the actual and potential 
impacts of climate-related 
risks and opportunities on the 
organization’s businesses, 
strategy and financial planning.a) Describe the climate-related risks 
and opportunities the organization 
has identified over the short, 
medium, and long term.Through a Climate Risk Analysis conducted in conjunction with a third-party, Lam Research has identified a 
range of potential physical, market/technology and policy/legal risks and opportunities.
Risks:
• Changing customer expectations
• Competitors developing lower-impact products
• Operational disruptions from flooding, natural hazards, rising temperatures, and/or water stress
• Natural hazards leading to supply chain disruptions and/or preventing access to the operational workplace
• Regulation of Lam’s direct operations, customer operations, and/or raw materials (e.g., carbon pricing)
• Reputational impacts from poor performance on external climate-related engagements
• Water stress impacting major customer operations
Opportunities:
• Expansion of end-use markets
• Improving resilience of business operations through asset hardening
• Operational footprint reduction
• Reduced resource consumption of sold products
Lam is factoring these potential risks and opportunities into the development of less energy intensive 
products, capital funding for climate-related operations projects, including energy conservation, and through 
engaging with suppliers on environmental sustainability opportunities. The physical risks are incorporated 
into the business continuity planning activities across the company and vary based on site-specific risk profiles.Sustainable Operations - Decarbonizing the world, 
together
CDP Climate Change 2021 C2.1a, C2.3, C2.3a, C2.3b, 
C2.4, C2.4a, C3.1, C3.3, C3.4
b) Describe the impact of climate-
related risks and opportunities 
on the organization’s businesses, 
strategy, and financial planning.Sustainable Operations - Decarbonizing the world, 
together
Responsible Supply Chain - Our focus on supplier 
environmental performance  
CDP Climate Change 2021 C2.4a, C3.1, C3.3, C3.4
c) Describe the resilience of the 
organization’s strategy, taking into 
consideration different climate-
related scenarios, including a 2°C or 
lower scenario.Lam has begun to undertake a qualitative scenario analysis with plans to add quantitative in the next two 
years. To bolster Lam's resilience against the various climate-related scenarios, the company is:
• Undertaking deeper analysis on the climate risks that may have the  potential to impact Lam such as 
reputational and customer expectation risks, along with potential regulation.
• Incorporating those risks into our risk management system
• Developing plans to mitigate those risks over time
• Setting short-, medium-, and long-term climate goals to mitigate our operational impacts
• Developing plans to address our carbon impacts across our value chain – including our supply chain, 
operations, and product useSustainable Operations - Decarbonizing the world, 
together
CDP Climate Change 2021 C3.2, C3.2a
Lam Research
| 80
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXTCFD index  (continued)
Disclosure Focus Area Recommended Disclosure Response Reference
Risk Management
Disclose how the organization 
identifies, assesses and manages 
climate-related risks.a) Describe the organization’s 
processes for identifying and 
assessing climate-related risks.Lam  conducted a qualitative climate risk analysis that involved engaging internal stakeholders, conducting 
research, and applying our internal risk rating system to assess the likelihood and impact of those potential 
climate risks.
Lam has an established enterprise risk management system, which we aim to utilize to address any identified 
material climate risks in the future. We also have a robust EH&S risk inventory system and process for 
evaluating our risks in accordance with our ISO 14001 certification. More details can be found in our  
CDP disclosure.Sustainable Operations - Decarbonizing the world, 
together
CDP Climate Change 2021 C2.
b) Describe the organization’s 
processes for managing climate- 
related risks.
c) Describe how processes 
for identifying, assessing, and 
managing climate-related risks are 
integrated into the organization’s 
overall risk management.
Metrics and Targets
Disclose the metrics and targets 
used to assess and manage 
relevant climate-related risks and 
opportunities.a) Disclose the metrics used by 
the organization to assess climate-
related risks and opportunities 
in line with its strategy and risk 
management process.Lam Research monitors several metrics to measure progress toward achieving our 2025, 2030 and 2050 net 
zero goals including emissions generated and energy consumption metrics.Sustainable Operations - Decarbonizing the world, 
together
Appendix - Performance Summary
b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, 
if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions, and the 
related risks.Please refer to our reporting on Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions on page 31 of the Sustainable Operations section.
See Strategy section for emissions-related risks.Sustainable Operations - Decarbonizing the world, 
together
Appendix - Performance Summary
c) Describe the targets used by the 
organization to manage climate-
related risks and opportunities and 
performance against targets.Targets:
- Achieve 100% renewable energy globally by 2030
- Reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 25% by 2025 and 46% by 2030 from a 
2019 baseline
- Achieve net zero carbon emissions by 2050
- Achieve 12 million kWh in total energy savings from a 2019 baseline
See Introduction - Achieving our ESG goals for performance against targets.Introduction - Achieving our ESG goals
Sustainable Operations - Decarbonizing the world, 
together
Lam Research
| 81
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXAssurance statement
 
DNV  Business Assurance USA, Inc.  (DNV ), 1400 Ravello Dr . Katy, TX 77449  
 
 
 
 
Independent Assurance Statement  
 
Introduction  
DNV Business  Assurance USA, Inc. (DNV) has been commissioned by the management of Lam Research  Corporation  (Lam)  to carry out an independent limited level 
assurance engagement of Selected Information for calendar year 2021 and, where marked, for Calendar Year s 2019 and 2020 , as presented in Lam’s 2021 Sustainability 
Disclosures (the “Report”) . The assurance was carr ied out March  through May  2022.  
 
Lam has sole responsibility for preparation of the data and external report. DNV, in performing our assurance work, is responsibl e to the management of Lam. Our 
assurance statement, however, represents our independent opini on and is intended to inform all stakeholders including Lam.  
 
Scope of Assurance  
The scope of work agreed with Lam includes the following:  
 
Organizational boundary  
• All global facilities under Lam’s operational control  
 
Data Verified for the period of January 1, 2021, to 
December 31, 2021 (CY 2021)  
• GHG Emissions Scope 1 and 2  
• Energy Consumption  
• Energy Savings  
• Waste & Waste Data Diversion Rate (including 
Hazardous Waste)  
• Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)  
 
Data Verified for the period of January 1, 2020, to 
December 31, 2020 (CY 2020)  
• GHG Emissions Scope 1 and 2 
 
Data Verified for the period of January 1, 2019, to 
December 31, 2019 (CY 2019)  
• GHG Emissions Scope 1 and 2  
 
We do not express conclusions on other information that may 
be published on Lam’s website or sustainability disclosures 
for the current reporting period or previous periods.  Topic  Accounting Metric  Unit of Measure  
Greenhouse 
Gas Emissions  (1) 2021 Gross global Scope 1 and 2 emissions  
(2) 2020 Gross global Scope 1 and 2 emissions  
(3) 2019 Gross global Scope 1 and 2 emissions  Metric tons (MT)  
CO 2e 
Energy 
Consumption  (1) 2021 Total energy consumed  Kilowatt hrs (kWh)  
Energy Savings  (1) 2021 Energy savings achieved  Kilowatt hrs (kWh)  
Waste 
Management  (1) 2021 Total amount of hazardous waste  
(2) 2021 Total amount non -hazardous waste generated  
(3) 2021 Total percentage hazardous waste recycled  
(4) 2021 Total non-hazardous waste recycled  Metric tons (MT)  
Percentage (%)  
Employee 
Health & Safety  (1) Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)   Rate per 200,000 hrs  
Progress 
towards 2025 
Goals  (1) 2021 GHG Scope 1 and 2 emissions (market -based) 
change against 2019 baseline   
(2) Hazardous waste to landfill  Percentage (%)  
  
 
 Topic Accounting Metric Unit of Measure
Greenhouse 
Gas Emissions(1) 2021 Gross global Scope 1 and 2 emissions
(2) 2020 Gross global Scope 1 and 2 emissions
(3) 2019 Gross global Scope 1 and 2 emissionsMetric tons (MT) 
CO2e
Energy 
Consumption(1) 2021 Total energy consumed Kilowatt hrs (kWh)
Energy 
Savings(1) 2021 Energy savings achieved Kilowatt hrs (kWh)
Waste 
Management(1) 2021 Total amount of hazardous waste
(2) 2021 Total amount non-hazardous waste generated
(3) 2021 Total percentage hazardous waste recycled
(4) 2021 Total non-hazardous waste recycledMetric tons (MT) 
Percentage (%)
Employee 
Health & 
Safety(1) Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) Rate per 200,000 hrs
Progress 
towards 2025 
Goals(1) 2021 GHG Scope 1 and 2 emissions (market-based) 
change against 2019 baseline
(2) Hazardous waste to landfillPercentage (%)
Lam Research
| 82
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXAssurance statement  (continued)
 
2 
 Level of Assurance  
We performed a limited assurance engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (revised ) – ‘Assurance 
Engagements other than Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information’ , issued by the Internationa l Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. This standard 
requires that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance.  
 
DNV  applies its own management standards and compliance policies for quali ty control, in accordance with ISO/IEC 17021:201 5-1 - Conformity Assessment Requirements  
for bodies providing audit and certification of management systems, and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quali ty control including documented policies 
and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requ irements.  
 
The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing and  are less detailed than those undertaken during a reasonable assurance 
engagement, so the level of assurance obtained is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement been 
performed. We planned a nd performed our work to obtain the evidence we considered sufficient to provide a basis for our opinion, so that the risk of  this conclusion 
being in error is reduced, but not reduced completely.  
 
DNV ’s assurance engagements are based on the assumption t hat the data and information provided by the client to us as part of our review have been provided in good 
faith . This includes but is not limited to  sales and acquisitions,  building occupancy rates and operating hours,  and financial/operational control . DNV expressly disclaims 
any liability or co -responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Independent Assurance Statement . 
 
 
Assurance Team  
Role  Name  
Project Manager /Verifier  Angela Reed  
Lead Verifier  Kyle Silon  
Lead Verifier  Stephen Carlson  
Technical Reviewer  Shruthi Bachamanda  
 
 
Assurance  Methodology  
DNV  is a leading provider of sustainability services, including verification of GHG emissions data  and other environmental metrics . Our environmental and social 
assurance specialists work in over 100 countries . 
 
In that respect, the environmental footprint  inventor ies have been evaluated against the following  reporting criteria : 
 
• World Business Council for Sustainable Development ( WBCSD) / World Resources institute (WRI) Greenhouse Gas Protocol , A Corporate Accounting 
and Reporting Standard  REVISED EDITION  
 
DNV  used a risk -based approach throughout the assurance engagement, concentrating on the areas that we believe are most material for both Lam and its stakeholders.  
DNV  applied a materiality threshold of five percent for all  data in scope .  
  Role Name
Project Manager/Verifier Angela Reed
Lead Verifier Kyle Silon
Lead Verifier Stephen Carlson
Technical Reviewer Shruthi Bachamanda 
2 
 Level of Assurance  
We performed a limited assurance engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (revised ) – ‘Assurance 
Engagements other than Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information’ , issued by the Internationa l Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. This standard 
requires that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance.  
 
DNV  applies its own management standards and compliance policies for quali ty control, in accordance with ISO/IEC 17021:201 5-1 - Conformity Assessment Requirements  
for bodies providing audit and certification of management systems, and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quali ty control including documented policies 
and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requ irements.  
 
The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing and  are less detailed than those undertaken during a reasonable assurance 
engagement, so the level of assurance obtained is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement been 
performed. We planned a nd performed our work to obtain the evidence we considered sufficient to provide a basis for our opinion, so that the risk of  this conclusion 
being in error is reduced, but not reduced completely.  
 
DNV ’s assurance engagements are based on the assumption t hat the data and information provided by the client to us as part of our review have been provided in good 
faith . This includes but is not limited to  sales and acquisitions,  building occupancy rates and operating hours,  and financial/operational control . DNV expressly disclaims 
any liability or co -responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Independent Assurance Statement . 
 
 
Assurance Team  
Role  Name  
Project Manager /Verifier  Angela Reed  
Lead Verifier  Kyle Silon  
Lead Verifier  Stephen Carlson  
Technical Reviewer  Shruthi Bachamanda  
 
 
Assurance  Methodology  
DNV  is a leading provider of sustainability services, including verification of GHG emissions data  and other environmental metrics . Our environmental and social 
assurance specialists work in over 100 countries . 
 
In that respect, the environmental footprint  inventor ies have been evaluated against the following  reporting criteria : 
 
• World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) / World Resources institute (WRI) Greenhouse Gas Protocol , A Corporate Accounting 
and Reporting Standard REVISED EDITION  
 
DNV  used a risk -based approach throughout the assurance engagement, concentrating on the areas that we believe are most material for both Lam and its stakeholders.  
DNV  applied a materiality threshold of five percent for all  data in scope .  
  
Lam Research
| 83
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXAssurance statement  (continued)
 
3 
 The assurance pro cess involved a series of 60-minute  interview s with the accountable party (ies)  and/or senior manager (s) responsible for collating the information at a 
corporate level to:  
• Perform a walkthrough to understand how data is managed and reported and the systems, legal registers, processes, and procedures used  
• Interview of managers and data users representing relevant functions for supporting the environmental inventory and safet y data 
management process  
• Review the controls in place to confirm data and information accuracy  
• Confirm the scope and boundaries of the data included  
• Requests for further evidence and documentation in support of testimony and system observations  
 
The assurance process includes desk review of the submitted documentation, data records and sources relating to the selected performance metrics and 
corporate environmental footprint  data claims .  
• Review of the processes and tools used to collect, aggregate , and report on all data and metrics  
• Assessment of environmental  and other  information systems and controls, including:  
o Selection and management of all relevant environmental and safety data and information  
o Processes for collecting, proce ssing, consolidating, and reporting the environmental and safety data and information  
o Systems and processes that ensure the accuracy of the performance  data and information  
o Design and maintenance of the environmental and employee workforce and safety information system  
o Systems and processes that support the environmental  and employee workforce and safety information system  
o Performed sample -based audits of the processes for generating, gatherin g, and managing the data  
• Perfo rmed key data recalculations to confirm accuracy  
• Examination of the social, governance , and environmental data and information to develop evidence for the assessment of the claims and 
assertions  made  
• Evaluation of whether the organization conforms to the reporting  criteria  
• Evaluation of whether the evidence and data are sufficient and support Lam ’s environmental , social and performance claims  
• Conducted remote site assessment at Fremont, California to review GHG emissions, energy, waste, and health and safety managem ent  
 
In addition to the above, specific to the environmental indicators, the following steps were conducted for Energy Savings and  Waste:  
 
Energy Savings  
• Review of energy conservation measures implemented in the reporting year  
• Conducted sample -based review of the process for quantifying energy savings performance including:  
o Evaluation of reasonableness and conservativeness of assumptions related to energy baseline and savings calculated from energ y 
conservation measures   
o Desk -based review of energy calculations provided by Lam and energy consultants  
 
Wast e 
• Review of the waste segregation methodology and description of waste categorization  
• Conduct data checks for the waste data collected, transferred,  and calculated  
• Perform  sample -based assessment of data reported against the source data (waste collected to landfill and waste diverted) provided by 
waste management companies.  
Lam Research
| 84
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXAssurance statement  (continued)
 
4 
 Data Verified 
 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions  – CY202 1 
• Scope 1 Emissions          50,664  MT CO 2e  
• Scope 2 Emissions  (location -based)        109,627  MT CO 2e  
• Scope 2 Emissions (market -based)         56,521  MT CO 2e 
 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions – CY20 20 
• Scope 1 Emissions          38,788 MT CO 2e  
• Scope 2 Emissions (location -based)        87,170 MT CO 2e  
• Scope 2 Emissions (market -based)         75,884  MT CO 2e 
 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions – CY20 19 
• Scope 1 Emissions          36,162  MT CO 2e  
• Scope 2 Emissions (location -based)        83,513 MT CO 2e  
• Scope 2 Emissions (market -based)         82,296 MT CO 2e 
 
Energy Consumption – CY202 1 
• Total Energy Consumed          402,343,642  kWh 
 
Energy Savings – CY2021  
• Energy Savings Achieved          Greater than 2,000 ,000  kWh 
 
Waste  – CY202 1 
• Total Hazardous Waste         2,208 MT 
• Hazardous Waste Recycled         24% 
 
• Total Non-Hazardous Waste         8,505 MT 
• Non-hazardous Waste Recycle d        71% 
 
Employee Health & Safety –  CY 2021 
• Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)        0.40 
 
Progress towards 2025  ESG Goals  
• CY 2021 Scope 1 and 2 (market -based) emissions against 2019 baseline           - 9.5%  
• CY 2020 Scope 1 and 2 (market -based) emissions against 2019 bas eline     - 3.2%  
• CY 2021 Hazardous Waste to Landfill        1% 
Lam Research
| 85
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXAssurance statement  (continued)
 
5 
 Inherent Limitations  
Due to the selective nature (sampling) and other inherent limitations of both procedures and systems of internal control, the re remains the unavoidable risk that 
errors or irregularities may not have been detected. Calculations of energy savings are subjec t to inherent limitations, given the nature and the methods used for 
determining such data. DNV did not conduct independent measurement of the energy savings variables. This is a limitation whic h can influence the accuracy of our 
opinion. Finally, the sele ction of different but acceptable measurement techniques, in particular related to the waste and energy savings performance,  may result 
in materially different measurements.  
 
Assurance Opinion  
Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us  to believe that the information 
and data with in the Report is not fairly stated and has not been prepared, in all material respect s, in accordance with the criteria stated.  This conclusion relates only 
to the information in the Report  and is to be read in the context of this Assurance  Statement.   
 
Independence  
DNV  was not involved in the preparation of any part of Lam’s data or report. This is our first year of providing assurance for Lam . We adopt a balanced approach 
towards all stakeholders when performing our evaluation.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DNV  Business Assurance USA, Inc.  
Katy , Texas  
June 22, 2022  
 
 
 
            
 
    
                                                   
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
This Statement is for the sole use and benefit of the party contracting with DNV Business Assurance USA, Inc. to produce this  Statement (the “Client”).  Any use of or reliance on this document by any party other than 
the Client shall be at the sole risk of such party. In no event will DNV or any of its parent or affiliate companies, or thei r respective directors, officers, shareholders, employees,  or subcontractors, be liable to an y other 
party regarding any statements, findings, conclusions,  or other content in this Statement, or for any use of, reliance on, accuracy, or adequacy of this Statement  
 
About DNV  
Driven by our purpose of safeguarding life, property,  and the environment, DNV enables organizations  to advance the safety and sustainability of their business. Combining leading technical and operational expertise, 
risk methodology and in -depth industry knowledge, we empower our customers’ decisions and act ions with trust and confidence.  We continuously invest in research and collaborative innovation to provide customers 
and society with operational and technological foresight . 
Lam Research
| 86
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXAssurance statement  (continued)
 
6 
 Appendi x. Selected Information’s Criteria  
 
Topic  Criteria  
Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions / Energy 
Consumption  World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) / World Resources institute (WRI) Greenhouse Gas Protocol, A Corpo rate 
Accounting and Reporting Standard REVISED EDITION  
Energy Savings  Description:  
(1) 2021 Energy savings achieved  
Energy savings achieved as a result of energy conservation measures 
(ECM) implemented at all global facilities under Lam’s operational 
control in the reporting year. Savings quantified in comparison to 
energy baseline (energy consumption occurring without 
implemented ECM.)  
 Methodology:  
Total sum of energy savings achieved across 
all ECMS implemented in the reporting 
year.  Unit of measure: 
Kilowatt hours  (kWh)  
Waste Management  Description:  
(1) 2021 Total a mount of hazardous waste  
Hazardous waste generated at all global facilities under Lam’s 
operational control in the reporting year.  
 
(2) 2021 Total amount non -hazardous waste generated  
Non-hazardous waste generated at all global facilities under Lam’s 
operational co ntrol in the reporting year.  
 
(3) 2021 Total percentage hazardous waste recycled  
Hazardous waste disposed by means of recycling across global 
facilities under Lam’s operational control in the reporting year.  
 
(4) 2021 Total non -hazardous waste recycled  
Non-hazardous waste disposed by means of recycling across global 
facilities under Lam’s operational control in the reporting year.  Methodology:  
(1) Total sum of hazardous waste generated 
cross global facilities in t he reporting year.  
 
(2) Total sum of non -hazardous waste 
generated across global facilities under 
Lam’s operational control in the reporting 
year.  
 
(3) Total metric tons of hazardous waste 
recycled / total metric tons of hazardous 
waste generated X 100  
 
(4) Total metric tons of non -hazardous 
waste recycled / total metric tons of non -
hazardous waste generated X 100  Unit of Measure:  
(1) Metric tons (MT)   
(2) Metrics tons (MT)  
(3) Percentage (%)  
(4) Percentage (%)  
Employee Health & 
Safety  (1) Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)  
Number of incidents reported per 100 full time employees against the 
number of hours worked. In 2021 reporting year, employee hours 
worked was assumed to be 2080, per Lam full time employees.  Methodology:  
(Total number of incidents X 200,000) / Full 
time equivalent headcount X 2080  
 Unit of measure:  
Rate per 200,000 hrs  Topic Criteria
Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions/ Energy 
ConsumptionWorld Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) / World Resources institute (WRI) Greenhouse Gas Protocol, A Corporate 
Accounting and Reporting Standard REVISED EDITION
Energy SavingsDescription:
(1) 2021 Energy savings achieved
Energy savings achieved as a result of energy conservation measures 
(ECM) implemented at all global facilities under Lam’s operational 
control in the reporting year. Savings quantified in comparison to 
energy baseline (energy consumption occurring without implemented 
ECM.)Methodology:
Total sum of energy savings achieved 
across all ECMS implemented in the 
reporting year.Unit of measure: 
Kilowatt hours (kWh)
Waste ManagementDescription:
(1) 2021 Total amount of hazardous waste
Hazardous waste generated at all global facilities under Lam’s 
operational control in the reporting year.
(2) 2021 Total amount non-hazardous waste generated
Non-hazardous waste generated at all global facilities under Lam’s 
operational control in the reporting year.
(3) 2021 Total percentage hazardous waste recycled
Hazardous waste disposed by means of recycling across global 
facilities under Lam’s operational control in the reporting year.
(4) 2021 Total non-hazardous waste recycled
Non-hazardous waste disposed by means of recycling across global 
facilities under Lam’s operational control in the reporting year.Methodology:
(1) Total sum of hazardous waste generated 
cross global facilities in the reporting year.
(2) Total sum of non-hazardous waste 
generated across global facilities under 
Lam’s operational control in the reporting 
year.
(3) Total metric tons of hazardous waste 
recycled / total metric tons of hazardous 
waste generated X 100
(4) Total metric tons of non-hazardous 
waste recycled / total metric tons of non- 
hazardous waste generated X 100Unit of Measure:
(1) Metric tons (MT)
(2) Metrics tons (MT)
(3) Percentage (%)
(4) Percentage (%)
Employee Health & 
Safety(1) Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)
Number of incidents reported per 100 full time employees against 
the number of hours worked. In 2021 reporting year, employee hours 
worked was assumed to be 2080, per Lam full time employees.Methodology:
(Total number of incidents X 200,000) / Full 
time equivalent headcount X 2080Unit of measure:
Rate per 200,000 hrs
Lam Research
| 87
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXCautionary statement
With the exception of historical facts, the statements contained in this ESG Report (“Report”) are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to the safe harbor provisions created by the Private 
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain, but not all, of the forward-looking statements in this Report are specifically identified as forward-looking by the use of words and phrases such as “aim,” “anticipate,” 
“aspire,” “believe,” “build,” “commitment,” “continue,” “could,” “expand,” “expect,” “future,” “goal,” “increase,” “intend,” “maintain,” “may,” “objectives,” “opportunities,” “path,” “plan,” “remain,” “should,” “strategy,” “strive,” 
“target,” “vision,” “will,” and “would.” However, our identification of certain statements as forward-looking does not mean that other statements not specifically identified are not forward-looking. Forward-looking 
statements include, but are not limited to, statements that relate to:  the role of our technology and innovations in the semiconductor industry and the world; our integration of ESG into our operations, workplaces, 
supply chain, and other activities; our ability to maintain workplace safety; our ESG strategy, approach and goals, including our net zero, energy usage and other climate-rated initiatives and goals, and our ability to show 
progress against those goals; our investment in ESG initiatives; the benefits of our ESG efforts to us and to our stakeholders; the governance and oversight of our ESG activities; our engagement with stakeholders; risks 
and opportunities related to climate change and our ability to identify, manage and mitigate risks; our ability to operate in an ethical and compliant manner, to provide an ethical working environment for employees, and 
to effectively manage ethics and compliance risk; our ability to protect data and intellectual property; our political activities; our technology and the success of our research and development efforts, including our ability 
to deliver products with increased value, lower environmental impact, enhanced safety or extended product life; the performance, quality and capabilities of our products; our research and development investments 
and activities and their impacts; our collaborations; the integration of environmental, climate and energy considerations into our manufacturing, R&D and facilities operations; our engagement with suppliers and 
customers on sustainability initiatives; our inclusion, diversity and equity initiatives; and our ability to promote resilience, ethics, human rights and responsibility in our supply chain. Such statements are based on current 
expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and changes in condition, significance, value and effect. Some factors that may affect these forward-looking statements include: supply chain disruptions have limited 
and are expected to continue to limit our ability to meet demand for our products; supply chain cost increases and other inflationary pressures have impacted and are expected to continue to impact our profitability; 
trade regulations, export controls, trade disputes and other geopolitical tensions may inhibit our ability to sell our products; business, political and/or regulatory conditions in the consumer electronics industry, the 
semiconductor industry and the overall economy may deteriorate or change; the actions of our customers and competitors may be inconsistent with our expectations; the severity, magnitude and duration of the COVID–19 
pandemic (and the related governmental, public health, business and community responses to it), and their impacts on our business, results of operations and financial condition, are evolving and are highly uncertain 
and unpredictable; and widespread outbreaks of illness may impact our operations and revenue in affected areas; as well as the other risks and uncertainties discussed under the headings “Risk Factors” and “Cautionary 
Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” within Item 1A and at the beginning of Part I, respectively, of our fiscal year 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K; and other documents we file from time to time with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission, such as our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Such risks, uncertainties and changes in condition, significance, value and effect could cause our actual 
results to differ materially from those expressed in this Report and in ways that are not readily foreseeable. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of 
the date of this Report and are based on information currently and reasonably known to us. We do not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, or to release the results of any revisions to these 
forward-looking statements, to reflect the impact of anticipated or unanticipated events or circumstances that occur after the date of this Report.
Lam Research
| 88
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIXReferences
Annual Reports
Code of Ethics
Community Relations
EEO-1 Report
Environmental Social Governance
Ethics Helpline
Global Standards of Business Conduct
Lam Research
Lam Research Global EHS Sustainability Commitment Policy
Products
Supplier Code of Conduct
Supply Chain Policies
Contact information
If you have questions regarding this report or Lam’s ESG activities, please contact:  
ESG@lamresearch.com .
Lam Research
| 89
2021 ESG Report INTRODUCTION BUSINESS AND GOVERNANCE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS OUR WORKPLACE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN OUR COMMUNITIES APPENDIX