Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 20181
Lam Research  
Corporate Social  
Responsibility  
Report 2018Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 20182
Contents
Letter from Our CEO    3
About this Report    4
Company Overview    7
 
Workplace     11
Community     17 
Operations: Environment and Safety  21
Performance Summary   27
GRI Index     28Contents
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 20183
Letter from Our CEO
This is Lam’s 5th annual corporate social responsibility 
(CSR) report, and it features updates on our continued 
progress against our 2020 environmental commitments, 
investments in our employees’ career development and 
wellbeing, and ongoing support for the communities 
where Lam employees live and work. Lam’s contributions 
to the growth of the semiconductor industry and the data 
economy have never been greater, but we don’t stop 
there. We strive to make a lasting, positive impact for 
all our stakeholders and commit to be a proactive and 
responsible corporate citizen. 
This year, to further integrate CSR into the business, we 
created a cross-functional CSR Team to develop and drive 
CSR objectives and strategies. The team’s activities are 
coordinated and driven by a dedicated CSR manager, a 
new position created in 2018.   
We have organized our CSR report into four main 
chapters: Company Overview, Workplace, Community, 
and Operations: Environment and Safety. We have 
addressed the topics that are priorities for our 
stakeholders and represent opportunities for Lam to make 
a positive environmental or social impact. Here are some 
highlights you’ll read more about in the pages to follow:
 • Company Overview – We continued to increase   
  our investments in research and development,  
  dedicating over 60% of our operating 
  expenses to providing our customers with best-in-
  class and innovative products and services.   
 • Workplace – We are increasing our focus on    
  inclusion and diversity in the workplace and for the  
  first time are publishing demographics of our 
  workforce; this underscores our commitment to 
  transparency as we address this important topic. 
 • Community – The Lam Research Foundation    
  increased its giving by 13% from 2017, with a 
  record $3.7 million in grants, scholarships, and 
  employee-matched donations to non-profits and 
  scholarship programs. 
 • Operations: Environment and Safety – We surpassed 
  our 2020 goals for greenhouse gas intensity and 
  renewable energy, and we maintained our strong 
  track record for worker safety.  
Lam is well-positioned to deliver on the CSR priorities 
for our employees, customers, shareholders, and 
communities. We are excited to be on this CSR journey 
and we hope this report offers valuable insight into Lam’s 
ongoing commitment to CSR.
 
Tim Archer
President and Chief Executive Officer
Letter from Our CEO
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 20184
About This Report
Lam Research Corporation has published this Corporate 
Social Responsibility (CSR) Report to provide an overview 
of our company’s products, services, and operations 
related to environmental, social, and economic 
performance. This report covers calendar year 2018, with 
some exceptions noted, including financial data that is 
Lam’s fiscal year 2018 (July 2017-June 2018). The report 
encompasses all wholly-owned subsidiaries across the 
globe, although some data may be limited to particular 
geographies which we note throughout the report.  
We self-declare that this report is in accordance with the 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standard framework at 
the Core level. As required, a GRI Index at the end of the 
report shows our alignment with GRI reporting elements 
and our material topics. We intend to continue to report 
annually.  
We have noted any significant changes in scope and 
boundary throughout the report that may vary from 
our 2017 report, which was published in 2018. External 
assurance is limited to our financial data certified in our 
2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K. This CSR report has 
been reviewed by the Compensation and Nominating and 
Governance Committees of our Board of Directors and 
has been reviewed and approved by our President and 
CEO. 
Questions and comments about this report can be 
addressed to CSR@lamresearch.com.  
Lam’s Approach to CSR  
Our Core Values help to guide the decisions we make in 
every aspect of our business, informing what we do and 
how we do it. They shape the way we define success in 
the marketplace as we create solutions for our customers; 
invest in our employees; incorporate environmental, 
social, and economic responsibility across our business; 
give back to our communities; conduct our business 
ethically through good governance; and deliver value to 
our shareholders.  
In 2018, we created a corporate CSR Team, led by a CSR 
Manager, to guide our corporate responsibility goals 
and activities, benchmark our programs against the 
expectations of our stakeholders and industry, establish 
and drive future CSR objectives, and deliver plans and 
progress updates to the CEO and Board of Directors. The CSR Team includes representatives from Global 
Customer Operations, Global Workplace Solutions, 
Environmental Health and Safety, Investor Relations, 
Global Human Resources (HR), Legal, the Office of 
the Chief Technology Officer (CTO), Global Supplier 
Management, Corporate Communications, and 
Community Relations.  
  
Materiality  
We used the GRI materiality assessment process to 
determine the content of the report and identify key 
issues and topics to address. 
In 2018, we conducted a new materiality assessment. 
Using a third-party firm, we reviewed important topics 
and risks published in our 2018 Proxy and Annual Report, 
consulted with senior management, and catalogued 
feedback from stakeholders, including investors. The 
results of this materiality assessment will inform 2019 CSR 
activities and the 2019 CSR Report. The CSR team also 
benchmarked our CSR program in part based on scores 
and rankings by third-party ratings organizations.About this Report
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
In September 2015, 193 member States of the United Nations adopted 17 new Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs) to make our world more prosperous, inclusive, sustainable and resilient. Lam recognizes the importance 
of these goals and the role businesses play in achieving them. Lam is committed to aligning our programs and 
initiatives and do our part towards achieving these global goals.
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 20185
The previous materiality assessment, conducted in 2013, 
produced the list of material topics within this report, but 
we have increased our coverage of inclusion and diversity 
topics due to emerging interests in 2018.  
For our 2013 assessment, feedback was solicited 
from these stakeholder groups: customers, investors, 
suppliers, policymakers, and communities. To collect this 
information, we leveraged the use of a survey, interviews, 
and technical reviews by management advisors. Based 
on this feedback, more than 74 material topics were 
identified, from which a list of 15 priority topics emerged.  
For the purposes of this report, we define our material 
topics below: 
Business continuity – Through a formal risk management 
process, we prepare for potential operational, 
environmental, regulatory, and marketplace risks and 
opportunities that might affect our ability to conduct 
business. 
Charitable giving – Our charitable giving is an extension 
of our Core Values, and our practices include global 
grant making, employee giving match, and employee 
volunteerism.   Community engagement – We meet with local 
government officials, regulators, and civic organizations to 
build partnerships that result in positive contributions to 
the local economy and community. 
Customer data protection and privacy – Our customers, 
employees, and business partners expect that our 
information technology systems and data are secure, 
and we are committed to protecting their information 
and privacy.  
Design for the environment – We provide product 
features at our customers’ requests that improve energy 
efficiency, lower waste and water use, reduce carbon 
footprint, extend longevity, and use less packaging.  
Emerging environmental regulations – We monitor, 
prepare for, and comply with emerging regulations 
regarding the environmental impact of our products. 
This includes regulations regarding the environmental 
impact of our manufacturing processes, research and 
development operations, and workplace.  
Employee wellness – We offer educational resources 
and empower our employees to cultivate healthy lifestyle 
choices, grow their careers, and prepare for retirement.  Energy efficiency – Energy is a significant contributor to 
our greenhouse gas (GHG) profile, and we set goals and 
implement projects to make significant improvements in 
our energy performance.  
Ethics – Our Global Standards of Business Conduct Policy 
provides guidance for ethical behavior, rooted in our 
Core Values. We provide global training on ethics and 
compliance, and maintain a global Ethics and Compliance 
Helpline for reporting issues or asking questions. 
Greenhouse gas emissions – As a global company with 
manufacturing operations, we recognize that our GHG 
emissions contribute to climate change, and we strive to 
reduce our GHG footprint.  
New product pipeline – Through continued investments 
in research and development (R&D), we remain a key 
enabler of emerging technologies like the Internet of 
Things (IoT), artificial intelligence, wearable devices, 
virtual reality, ubiquitous technology connectivity, 
augmented reality, autonomous vehicles, and machine 
learning.  Occupational health and safety – We are committed to 
providing our employees a safe and healthy workplace, 
whether they work in an office, a manufacturing or R&D 
facility, or in the field.  
Product safety – Safety is built into our product design, 
manufacturing, and workplace operational systems. 
Product compliance – Safety, environmental, labor, and 
regulatory compliance with local, national, international 
and industry standards are incorporated in our products. 
Regulatory compliance – We are diligent in our 
compliance with relevant environmental regulations 
around the world. We also require our suppliers to do the 
same. About this Report
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 20186
Stakeholder engagement  
We regularly engage with key stakeholders to gather 
feedback that is incorporated into daily decision making 
and long-term strategic planning. 
 • Lam encourages employees to provide 
  feedback and input through managers, HR,  
  the Ethics & Compliance team, including an Ethics 
  and Compliance Helpline, and formal surveys.  
 • Lam collaborates closely with customers to   
  identify emerging needs for their products and 
  services. These needs guide Lam’s service delivery  
  objectives, product research and development  
  efforts, and manufacturing plans.  
 • Lam works with suppliers to meet emerging 
  customer needs and collaborate as we develop  
  more stringent social and environmental   
  requirements, including screening and auditing  
  requirements regarding human trafficking, child  
  and forced labor, human rights, and workplace 
  safety. As a supplier, we participate in several 
  work groups and organizations to review best  
  practices regarding contractors/migrant workers,  
  human rights, cyber security, supplier diversity,  
  and workplace inclusion and diversity. 
 • Lam regularly communicates with policy makers and 
  community leaders. We interact to ensure a positive 
  impact in the communities where we operate.  
 • Lam proactively seeks out opportunities to engage,  
  ask questions, and understand the views of our 
  shareholders on environmental, social, and   
  governance (ESG) topics. We initiate opportunities 
  for direct investor input and mutual exchange of 
  ideas via investor conferences, earnings calls, one-
  on-one meetings, correspondence, and 
  through their votes with respect to proposals 
  presented at shareholder meetings. This   
  engagement approach ensures we proactively  
  review and address the ESG issues most relevant to 
  our shareholders.  About this Report
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 20187
Company Overview
Our Business
We are a global supplier of innovative wafer fabrication 
equipment and services to the semiconductor industry. 
We have built a strong global presence with core 
competencies in areas like nanoscale applications 
enablement, chemistry, plasma and fluidics, advanced 
systems engineering, and a broad range of operational 
disciplines. Our products and services are designed 
to help our customers build smaller, faster, and better 
performing devices that are used in a variety of electronic 
products, including mobile phones, personal computers, 
servers, wearables, autonomous vehicles, and data 
storage devices. Our customer support provides services, 
spares and upgrades to enable best tool performance, 
optimize productivity, and maximize value. We partner 
with our customers to help them solve their most critical 
manufacturing challenges in an era when the demands 
on semiconductor device performance are pushing past 
the boundaries of traditional 2D structures, and into more 
advanced 3D architectures.  
We believe Lam is uniquely positioned to address these 
unprecedented industry challenges because of our 
technology capabilities, values-based culture, disciplined and accomplished management team, experienced 
and effective Board of Directors, and commitment to 
our long-term growth objectives through our significant 
investment in research and development (R&D). In 
fiscal year 2018, we spent over $1.1 billion in R&D and 
approximately $4.7 billion over the last five fiscal years. 
Between fiscal years 2013 and 2018, on a quarterly basis, 
Lam has grown R&D at a faster pace than its peers in the 
U.S.
Our R&D focus when combined with demand and 
technology inflections in our industry, including 3D device 
scaling, multiple patterning process flow, and advanced 
packaging/chip integration will lead to an increase in our 
served addressable market for our products and services 
in deposition, etch, strip, and clean. Company Overview
DepositionProduct Offerings
Strip & CleanEtch
Customer SupportLam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 20188
Commitment to Quality
Lam is committed to embedding quality in our culture and 
operations. We drive a holistic approach to development, 
delivery, and continuous improvement of our products 
and services that results in positive differentiation with our 
customers. Lam maintains a certification for International 
Standards Organization (ISO) 9001, a voluntary 
international quality management standard that provides 
a framework for effective quality management systems. 
Our Customers
Our customer base includes leading semiconductor 
memory, foundry, and integrated device manufacturers 
(IDMs) that make products such as non-volatile memory 
(NVM), DRAM memory, and logic devices in wafer 
fabrication plants (wafer fabs). 
Our customers make semiconductors by fabricating 
multiple dies or integrated circuits (ICs) on a wafer. 
This involves the repetition of several core processes 
and can require hundreds of individual steps. Making 
semiconductors requires highly sophisticated process 
technologies to integrate an increasing array of new 
materials with precise control at the atomic scale. Along 
with meeting technical requirements, our customers 
expect Lam’s products and services to deliver high 
productivity and be cost-effective.
Our Customer Support Business Group (CSBG) provides 
products and services to maximize installed equipment 
performance, predictability, and operational efficiency. 
As of the end of 2018, we have an installed base of 
approximately 56,000 chambers with a dedicated team to 
serve and maintain those tools for maximum productivity. 
We offer a broad range of services to deliver value 
throughout the lifecycle of our equipment, including 
customer service, spares, upgrades, and refurbishment 
of our products. Many of the technical advances that we 
introduce in our newest products are also available as 
upgrades, which provide customers with a cost-effective 
strategy for extending the performance and capabilities 
of their existing wafer fabrication lines. Additionally, 
CSBG provides new and refurbished previous-generation 
equipment for those applications that do not require the 
most advanced wafer processing capability.Research and Development  
The market for semiconductor capital 
equipment is characterized by rapid 
technological change and product innovation. 
Our ability to achieve and maintain our 
competitive advantage depends in part 
on our continued and timely development 
of new products and enhancements to 
existing products. Accordingly, we devote 
a significant portion of our personnel and 
financial resources to R&D programs and 
seek to maintain close and responsive 
relationships with our customers and 
suppliers.
Our R&D expenses during fiscal years 2018, 
2017, and 2016 were $1.2 billion, $1.0 billion, 
and $914 million, respectively. Our R&D 
spend was 61% of our operating expenses 
in 2018, 61% in 2017, and 59% in 2016. The 
majority of R&D spending over the past three years 
has been targeted at deposition, etch, clean, and 
other semiconductor manufacturing products.
Company Overview
2018 Fiscal Year Highlights
Fiscal year 2018* was the strongest year in our history, with  
revenue of over $11 billion, representing a five-year compound 
annual growth rate, (CAGR) of 25%. Fully diluted earnings  
per share was $13.17 on a GAAP basis, with a five-year
CAGR of over 80% on a GAAP basis. Details of our financials  
can be found at http://investor.lamresearch.com. 
* The Lam Research fiscal year 2018 covers June 26, 2017 to June 24, 2018.0.0%20.0%40.0%60.0%80.0%100.0%
 $- $500,000 $1,000,000 $1,500,000
2016 2017 2018
Percent Thousands of DollarsAnnual Investments in Research and 
Development by Fiscal Year
(in thousands)
Research and Development as a percent of operating
expenses
Annual R&D Investment
Revenue by Region
Southeast Asia
7%
Korea
35%Taiwan
13%United States
7%China
16%
Europe
5%
Japan
17%Total of
$11,076,998
FY 2018FY 2017 FY 2018 % Change
(in thousands, except per share data and percentages)
Revenue $8,013,620 $11,076,998 38%
Gross margin $3,603,359  $5,165,032 43%
Gross margin as a percent of total 
revenue45% 47%
Total operating expenses $1,701,227  $1,951,733 15%
Net income $1,697,763  $2,380,681 40%
Net income per diluted share $9.24  $13.17 43%The Research and Development as a percentage of Operating Expenses is directly calculated from 
data found in our 10-K. In 2018, Lam invested $1,189,514 in R&D and total operating expenses were 
$1,951,733. In 2017, R&D spend was $1,033,742 and total operating expenses were $1,701,227. In 2016, 
R&D spend was $913,712 and total operating expenses were $1,544,666.Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 20189
Commitment to Responsible Governance
Lam governs our business to be responsible and 
responsive to our stakeholders and strives to meet or 
exceed current industry standards, legal, and regulatory 
requirements, and to match our own stated values and 
standards of business conduct. The company’s principles, 
policies, and procedures are summarized in the 2018 
Proxy Statement.
We engage with our top shareholders regarding their 
views on environmental, social, and governance topics. As 
part of our shareholder engagement, shareholders have 
shared their views on capital return, proxy access, director 
tenure, board refreshment, director skills and experiences, 
inclusion and diversity, and other environmental and social 
governance matters. Consistent with their feedback, 
we have adopted proxy access and have increased our 
proxy statement disclosure about director tenure, board 
refreshment, and directors’ skills and experiences. We are 
responding to their input on inclusion and diversity by 
providing additional resources and focus to our inclusion 
and diversity programs. In the Workplace section of this 
report, we are presenting a snapshot of our employee 
diversity data.  
Ethics and Compliance 
Ethics and good governance practices are developed, 
monitored and adhered to at every level of the 
Company. Our Ethics and Compliance Helpline reporting, 
investigations and trends are reported quarterly to the 
Board of Directors. Elements of our ethics and compliance 
policies and program include: 
Code of Ethics. We maintain a Code of Ethics that applies 
to all employees, officers, and members of the board.
The Code of Ethics establishes standards reasonably 
necessary to promote honest and ethical conduct, 
including the ethical handling of actual or apparent 
conflicts of interest between personal and professional 
relationships; and full, fair, accurate, timely, and 
understandable disclosure in the periodic reports we file 
with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in 
other public communications. We will promptly disclose 
to the public any amendments to, or waivers from, any 
provision of the Code of Ethics to the extent required by 
applicable laws. A copy of the Code of Ethics is available 
on the Investors section of our website.Global Standards of Business Conduct (GSBC) policy. 
We maintain written standards of appropriate conduct for 
a variety of business situations. Among other things, the 
GSBC addresses employee relationships with one another 
(including freedom from harassment and retaliation, 
workplace safety, and privacy), employee relationships 
within Lam (including conflicts of interest, financial 
integrity safeguarding of Company assets, and protection 
of confidential information), and relationships with other 
companies and stakeholders (including anti-corruption 
and fair competition). 
Insider trading policy. Our insider trading policy prohibits 
inappropriate trading of company stock by our directors, 
officers, and employees, provides for insider blackout 
periods and prohibits hedges and pledges of company 
stock.
Risk management. Lam strives to be attuned to both 
internal and external risks that must be managed 
to support responsible governance and ethics. We 
are transparent about these risks and present them 
extensively in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Training and Communication. Ethics and compliance 
(E&C) training ensures that employees and key suppliers 
are informed about their ethical responsibilities and 
are held accountable. In 2018, more than 99% of our 
approximate 11,000 employees completed online ethics 
and compliance training, which included topics such 
as anti-harassment and insider trading. Additional in-
person training sessions covering anti-corruption were 
held in high-risk geographies, and quarterly bulletins 
were published to all employees highlighting key areas 
of focus. In 2019, we will augment our communications 
with a series of short videos to increase employee 
engagement on relevant compliance topics.  
Helpline. We provide an Ethics and Compliance Helpline 
for employees to report issues or ask questions, on an 
anonymous basis if desired.Company Overview
Achievement
Honesty 
and integrityInnovation and  
continuous 
improvement
Mutual trust  
and respectOpen 
communication
Ownership  
and 
accountabilityTeamwork
Think:  
customer, 
company,  
individual
Our Values
Our Core Values guide our business conduct. They inform our Code of Ethics and our Global 
Standards of Business Conduct, which extend beyond employees into our supply chain. 
Concerns about ethics violations can be reported through our Ethics and Compliance email 
address or sent anonymously through our third-party managed EthicsPoint Helpline.
These values are reinforced and held consistently throughout the company in all geographies 
and at all employee levels. Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201810
Supply Chain Responsibility and Governance   
Lam is a strong proponent of maintaining an ethical 
supply chain and adhering to industry standards, 
including the guidelines published by the Institute for 
Supply Management and the Responsible Business 
Alliance Code of Conduct. These standards are designed 
to ensure that working conditions in the supply chain are 
safe, that workers are treated with respect and dignity, 
and that manufacturing processes are environmentally 
responsible. 
Lam utilizes a reputable third party to certify our top tier 
suppliers for adherence to our Global Supplier Code 
of Conduct, which addresses conflict minerals, anti-
slavery, and human trafficking requirements. For our 
conflict minerals reporting survey, the response rate from 
materials suppliers exceeded the industry average. Our 
top spend suppliers are also subject to audits and facility 
inspections by Lam. Auditing and mitigation processes 
include verification, training, auditing of compliance, and 
corrective action, if required. 
Additionally, in 2018 Lam participated in a new customer 
pilot program to ensure the human rights of contract, 
migrant, and temporary workers of our suppliers that 
are located in high risk geographies. This new program 
requires a comprehensive policy that prohibits forced 
and bonded labor; it includes such topics as freedom of 
movement, fees, voluntary separation, and humane work 
conditions. Oversight of this program also requires an 
internal cross-functional team with representatives from 
legal, audit, procurement, human resources, and risk 
management. 
Supply chain and purchasing teams also receive 
specialized training. In 2018, Lam provided ethics training 
certified by the Institute of Supply Management (ISM) 
to more than 300 supply chain employees. The course 
presents ethical principles and standards to guide 
individual and group decisions and actions with modules 
on personal behavior, laws and regulations, interactions 
with others, and ethical leadership skills. 
Web-based human trafficking and anti-slavery training is 
also mandatory for all global operations and supply chain 
management. 
In 2018, we also joined a special interest group, managed 
by SEMI™ (a global industry association serving the 
manufacturing supply chain for the electronics industry) that promotes and shares best practices for diversity 
and inclusion in the manufacturing workforce. The goal 
of the group is to support the desired state that every 
certified diversely-owned company in the industry has an 
opportunity to compete and win business. In support of 
this effort, we will add diversity metrics to our existing 
supplier performance scorecard in 2019. 
Protection of Customer Data, Individual Privacy, 
and Cyber Security  
The protection of information about our employees, 
customers, and suppliers is of paramount importance. We 
maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems 
for the effective operation of our business and make use 
of Software-As-A-Service (SAAS) products for certain 
important business functions that are provided by third 
parties and hosted on their own networks and servers. 
In 2018, Physical Security, Cybersecurity, and Business 
Continuity functions were consolidated under the Chief 
Security Officer’s (CSO) organization to improve efficiency 
and control of our security management processes. 
During the year, we developed new processes to more 
stringently identify at-risk suppliers for security audits 
and our Chief Security Officer reports quarterly to the 
Board of Directors Audit Committee. In 2018, we did not 
experience any cyber incidents that resulted in a material 
adverse impact.
Lam enhanced current processes to manage risk and has 
achieved ISO 27001 certification for information security 
for selected sites. This ensures that our information 
security management system and programs are in 
compliance with global best practices.
Lam collaborates with industry groups to address 
preventative measures and standards for data breaches 
in manufacturing lab facilities, especially as it relates to 
malware that might affect manufacturing operations. We 
also implemented clean room training to ensure that our 
computers and equipment were secure and meeting their 
standards. Lam selectively audits suppliers for information 
security controls to protect Lam and our partners’ 
information.Company Overview
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201811
Workplace
Management Approach  
Lam strives to provide a work environment that ensures 
every voice is heard and enables employees to achieve 
their full potential. We provide our employees with 
tools, information, and systems that are scalable, 
consistent, and easily accessible. To ensure consistency 
in our employment practices, policies and processes 
are consolidated into a single global approach. This is 
intended to provide Lam employees with a consistent 
experience and equitable treatment anywhere in the 
world. We embrace inclusion and diversity and proactively 
create opportunities to attract, retain, and reward a 
multidimensional workforce. Our Core Values, mission, 
and vision objectives provide the common goals, 
framework, and language to help employees interact 
effectively and allow us to scale efficiently.
Our People  
Our innovative and talented people are at the heart 
of our success as a company, fueling our progress and 
the unique and powerful ways we serve our customers, 
communities, and other stakeholders. Our employees 
enable the innovation behind some of the world’s most 
advanced consumer technology devices and computing 
architectures. A global presence brings a diversity of 
perspectives, culture, and expertise, which is leveraged to 
provide high quality customer service and products. Inclusion and Diversity  
Lam is committed to fostering inclusion and diversity 
because we believe that the diverse backgrounds, 
perspectives, talents, and expressions of our employees 
promote creativity and innovation, accelerate 
performance, and are critical to our long-term success. 
Our vision is for every employee to feel valued, included, 
and empowered to achieve their full potential. To that 
end, we invest in initiatives and practices to attract, 
engage, and retain employees with diverse viewpoints 
and experiences that are important to unlocking new 
innovations and achieving our mission of being a world-
class provider of innovative technology and productivity 
solutions to the semiconductor industry.   
We also recognize that a commitment to inclusion and 
diversity requires continual resources, focus, and efforts. 
Therefore, we are investing in strategies and programs 
built around four platforms: leadership, employee 
engagement, talent development, and communications. 
Under these platforms there are ongoing and planned 
programs relating to recruiting, onboarding, mentoring, 
training, and networking opportunities. For example, 
the importance of inclusion and diversity is emphasized 
in our employee onboarding sessions, in employee 
and management training programs, and in our regular 
communications across all company work groups and 
geographies. We encourage employee-driven initiatives 
where diverse communities can share, network, learn, 
and support each other. Employee Resource Groups 
(ERG) include Women in Leadership at Lam, Women in 
Global Operations, the Community of Latino/African 
Americans for Student Success (CLASS), the Lam Veterans 
Community, and Women in Engineering. We also monitor 
diversity metrics and conduct employee engagement 
surveys. We have resources to support these important 
initiatives and will expand those resources in 2019, by 
hiring a dedicated manager to own our inclusion and 
diversity programs. Workplace
Company &
Culture
Total
Package
Base SalaryCareer
OpportunityLong-Term
Incentives
Short-Term
IncentivesBenefits &
Wellness
United States
59%
Headquarters
Fremont, CA10,933 Total Employees in Offices World-Wide
China
5%
Japan
4%
Taiwan
7%Korea
9%Europe
8%Southeast Asia
8%
2018 Employee Hiring and Service
New Hires
in 2018
1,551Average Years
of Service
7.2Workforce 
make-up
by years 
of service
Retention
Rate
93%More than
10 Years
29%10-20
20%20+
9%< 1
13%
1-3
29%
5-10
16%3-5
13%
All employee data is as of December 2018.Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201812
Our Tualatin Women in Engineering ERG is a very active 
group. Their stated mission is “To share our experiences 
as women working in engineering and science fields, 
and provide resources to enhance not only our own 
careers but those of future women engineers through 
career enrichment events, workshops, outreach activities, 
mentoring, and networking.” Monthly activities include 
networking and career enrichment events, sessions on 
mindfulness and financial health, community outreach 
supporting Science, Technology, Engineering and Math 
(STEM) education for girls, and social events. 
Lam also seeks to increase diversity of our workforce 
through partnerships with external programs. In 2018, 
we became a member of the National Consortium for 
Graduate Degrees for Minorities in Engineering and 
Science (GEM Consortium). The GEM Consortium 
is a network of leading corporations, government 
laboratories, universities, and research institutions that 
enables qualified students from under-represented 
communities to pursue graduate education in applied 
science and engineering. As part of the program, Lam 
is funding 12 GEM fellowships for students starting 
graduate school in 2019.
A significant enhancement to our CSR report this year 
is the inclusion of workforce demographics relating to 
gender and ethnic diversity. Driven by our desire to 
increase transparency and an understanding that our 
key stakeholders care about diversity, we are including 
demographic information about the U.S. ethnic and U.S. 
and global gender diversity of our workforce. In addition, 
we expanded the leadership disclosure on our website. Our 2018 demographic data reflects opportunities to 
increase gender and ethnic diversity at Lam. In 2019, we 
plan to utilize our data to develop longer-term strategies 
that invest in inclusion and diversity within the company. 
Employee Relations  
As part of Lam’s commitment to maintaining a positive 
work environment where all employees can achieve 
their full potential, Global Human Resources launched 
the Employee Relations group in October 2018. The 
team supplements the Human Resource services already 
available with specific responsibility for addressing and 
bringing resolution to workplace challenges including 
co-worker conflict, behaviors inconsistent with our 
Core Values, working through medical accommodation 
requests, and more. 
Compensation and Benefits 
We take pride in our ability to attract and retain top talent 
with our strong values-based culture and opportunities 
for professional growth for new graduates, outside 
candidates, and those within our existing employee base.  
An annual review of salaries and benefits packages 
using third-party benchmarking surveys ensures that our 
packages are aligned with the marketplace. In addition 
to competitive salaries, we offer bonus incentives based 
on both individual and company performance. In 2018, 
99% percent of eligible employees received bonuses. In 
addition to bonuses, we offer stock awards to senior and 
other selected employees. Workplace
Workforce Demographics
0.4%
33.0%
2.1%
2.1%
6.8%0.4%55.2%U.S. Ethnicity
Global gender data includes all regular 
Lam employees. U.S. gender and ethnicity 
data includes regular Lam and Silfex
employees located in the United States.
 
All demographic data is self-reported by 
employees.81%19%
U.S. Employee Gender83%17%
Global Employee GenderAmerican Indian/Alaskan Native
AsianAfrican American
Two or More RacesHispanic
Native Hawaiian or Pacfic IslanderWhite
0%10%20%30%40%50%60%70%80%90%100%Employee Gender 
Male Female
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201813
We are very proud that many of our employees choose 
to invest in Lam through our Employee Stock Purchase 
Program (ESPP). Employees who work 20 hours or more 
per week may contribute up to 15% of their earnings and 
are eligible to purchase shares at a discount of at least 
15%. Additionally, we offer a competitive 401k benefit 
with a 3% match annually. 
One way of measuring our success in being a company 
where successful people want to work is in our ability to 
recruit and retain talent. 29% of our workforce has been 
with the company for more than 10 years, and 13% has 
been here less than a year. Our average years of service 
for full-time employees is 7.2 years, and our annual 
retention rate in 2018 was 93%.  
Training and Development  
Lam’s Core Values of achievement, innovation, and 
continuous improvement drive us to invest in training 
and development opportunities for our workforce. In 
2018, we offered 483,880 training sessions across 1,854 
different courses, totaling more than 481,381 employee-
training hours. We offer both on-site classroom learning 
and online courses to improve access to professional 
development and education. Our employees receive 
training on core topics such as technical knowledge, 
management, ethics and compliance, and situational 
leadership. We also provide specialized training suited to 
an employee’s role and function within the company. We 
offer training for employees at all levels of their career. 
For example, the New College Graduate program offers 
training on emotional intelligence skills and mid-level 
and senior leaders received tailored training for both 
leadership and technical skill development.
When employees seek professional development beyond 
the scope of our internal programs, we reimburse their 
education expenses up to $15,000 per year in the U.S. 
In 2018, Lam reimbursed $1.4 million in educational 
expenses to support employees’ professional growth, up 
from $1.1 million in 2017. 
Finally, we know that positive recognition can be a 
powerful tool to promote employee engagement and 
satisfaction. In 2018, we launched a new platform that 
empowers employees and managers to easily recognize 
contributions of their colleagues and share it with the 
rest of the company. Awards are available through 
four programs, all of which align with our Core Values: 
the Above and Beyond Award recognizes employees 
for going above and beyond their typical job duties; the Cash Spot Award recognizes individuals for an 
outstanding achievement; the Vista Award recognizes 
a team’s accomplishment; and the Milestone Award 
recognizes employees’ key service milestones. The initial 
participation on the platform was positive, with more than 
10,500 awards given in 2018.
Innovation Investments that Empower Employees  
In response to our 2017 employee engagement survey, 
Lam invested in the design and launch of programs and 
training to drive more innovation. This includes targeted 
training to encourage managers to be architects of 
positive change through enhanced communication, 
effective prioritization, and decision-making, as well as 
programs and tools that allow prototyping of innovative 
approaches.  Here are some programs that received additional 
resources in 2018.  
Leap: Technical Certification for Engineers  
Leap provides 
engineers with four 
levels of technical 
certification, across 
11 disciplines. 
The classes foster 
knowledge transfer, 
cross-functional collaboration, speed to solutions, and 
personal development. In 2018, over 2,000 employees 
were enrolled into the program, with 300 live sessions 
offered, along with 117 web-based courses. A mid 
program survey shows that a majority of respondents 
agreed that Leap is effective in facilitating career and skills 
development, builds consistency in technical capability, 
and improves productivity. Edge: Senior Executive Leadership Development   
Edge provides 
executive training 
for our most senior 
leaders across all 
business groups 
and regions with 
a world-class 
curriculum designed in cooperation with faculty members 
from the University of California at Berkeley Haas 
School of Business. The curriculum is intended to equip 
leaders with the skills needed to drive positive change. 
Each participant has a 12-month journey through the 
program that includes a mix of class sessions, professional 
coaching, peer learning, and daily practices in targeted 
development areas. The curriculum includes leading high-
performance teams, strategic thinking, and executive 
communications through continuous practice. Each 
participant is challenged to collaborate on a large cross-
functional team project selected to improve or increase 
competitive differentiation. Edge graduates cascade their 
learning through project sponsorships and leadership 
presentations. During 2018, 141 leaders completed the 
Edge program. 
Workplace
Gaining an Edge  
Christopher Wong is a senior director of customer service in Singapore 
and a 2018 graduate of the Edge leadership program. The program 
expanded his internal network and allowed him to work on teams 
addressing opportunities across the business. The curriculum provided 
critical business insights and the tools and motivation to better articulate 
Lam’s vision, mission, and objectives to employees in his organization. 
According to Wong he learned “the importance of growing consistently.” 
As a result of his participation, he has taken on additional responsibilities 
supporting Lam’s Customer Support Business Group. 
PMS 7462 C
Cool Gray 9 CSkills & Career 
DevelopmentCross 
Functional 
CollaborationSpeed to 
SolutionKnowledge 
TransferIncrease your technical knowledge 
and advance your career.
Leap is a four-level          
certification program for 
the technical community 
focusing on:
Leap
94%of employees would stay 
at a company longer if it 
invested in their career*
68%
of employees prefer 
to learn at work*
56%
of employees say that 
they would spend more 
time learning if their 
manager suggested a 
course to improve skills*
*2018 LinkedIn Workplace Learning ReportLearn more about available programs and enroll today. Visit The Point > Resources > Leap Program >  
Available Programs  
Share your passion for technology. Email Leap@lamresearch.com to become a mentor, coach or instructor.
Process Product
ME/EE Systems
SW & Controls Analytics
Product MgmtTech Prog 
MgmtCore DisciplinesLeap Program Worldwide Adoption Status  
3000+
as of  
Q1 2019
Lam is committed to fostering a culture of learning 
and development for all our employees. The Leap 
program not only offers courses to learn new skills 
for your career development, but also enables you 
to share your knowledge and expertise with peers.
- Rick Gottscho, CTOTotal engineers enrolled 
Training at Lam
Number of training sessions  
enrollments
483,880
43% increase over 2017
Number of different courses
1,854
28% increase over 2017
Dollars in reimbursement 
for educational expenses
$1,362,210
19% increase over 2017Number of management 
training participants
976
24% increase over 2017
$Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201814
Tech Vision: Realizing Opportunity with Innovation 
and Collaboration  
Tech Vision was launched in March 2018 to provide 
shared purpose across the Lam global technical 
community around areas of strategic relevance, customer 
grand challenges, and critical enabling technologies. The 
platform provides opportunities for our employees to 
learn, connect, innovate, and inspire through “Accelerate 
Innovation” and “Discover Together” initiatives. 
Accelerate Innovation: We offer a unique lab 
infrastructure that supports creativity and enables fast 
cycles of learning. Our Leap program offers tailored 
certification courses for the technical community to 
help build skills that encompass both depth of expertise and broad knowledge across other disciplines to foster 
career development and advancement. We support 
open innovation programs that harness disruptive ideas 
for co-development to drive speed to solution for our 
customers.  
Discover Together: We invest in a series of educational 
opportunities and events that allow our engineers to 
showcase their research with peers and management to 
inspire one another, and encourage knowledge sharing 
and collaboration. Customers, university faculty, and 
students as well as leaders of innovation are frequently 
invited to present and participate in these events 
to provide exposure on the latest research and best 
practices to encourage more innovation.Workplace
My Tech  
VisionLam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201815
University Engagements  
Lam collaborates with universities and academic 
consortia around the globe by supporting leading-
edge research and building strong relationships with 
graduate and undergraduate students and professors. 
These relationships support emerging technologies and 
innovations, provide a pipeline of highly-skilled talent 
and encourage thought leadership around disruptive 
technologies that fuel innovation. In 2018, 64% of the 
year’s new college graduate hires in the U.S. were from 
schools where we have academic collaborations or 
consortia memberships, and some of those candidates 
were directly involved in Lam-funded projects or events.
Lam’s university engagements include scholarships and 
fellowships, research projects, thesis awards and scholarly 
competitions, sponsored events, research consortia 
and lab affiliations, and industry tours. In 2018, Lam 
had research engagements with universities across 18 
countries. Many of these programs and activities are 
conducted jointly between the Lam Foundation and the 
Office of the CTO. 
Specific examples of Lam-sponsored activities include:  
Unlock Ideas is a university grant program to support 
feasibility testing of innovative ideas, funded jointly by 
the Lam Foundation and the Office of the CTO. Winning 
proposals received a seed donation to conduct research 
collaborations with professors.   Tech Symposium is an annual event in collaboration with 
our strategic university partners, Massachusetts Institute 
of Technology (MIT), Stanford University, Tsinghua 
University, and University of California, Berkeley. The 
2018 event was co-sponsored by Tsinghua University in 
Beijing, China. More than 150 students, professors, and 
industry executives participated in keynote presentations, 
plenary talks, discussion panels, a student poster session, 
and networking opportunities to strengthen relationships 
across academia and industry. The 2019 event will be held 
at MIT in the fall. 
Lam Days are annual events held at key university 
campuses to promote networking and technical exchange 
with students and faculty. The 2018 Lam Day at MIT 
featured a Lam keynote, events with students from under-
represented communities, including a breakfast with 
graduate women at MIT, and engagement with three 
research centers: MIT.nano, Microsystems Technology Lab 
(MTL), and the Computer Science & AI Lab (CSAIL). 
MEMS Design Contest is sponsored by Cadence Design 
Systems, Coventor (a Lam subsidiary), and X-FAB in 
conjunction with Reutlingen University. The contest 
featured 10 qualifying and three finalist teams from 
universities and research institutions located worldwide. 
The goal of the contest was to test new micro-electro-
mechanical systems (MEMS) design technologies and train 
the next-generation of MEMS designers. The winner of 
the 2018 Global MEMS Design Contest was announced 
at CDNLive EMEA 2018, a Cadence® annual user 
conference.  
College Scholarships include thesis award competitions, 
Innovation Design Center awards, and fellowships in 
support of engineering and chemistry. Lam provided 
scholarships to college students in the U.S. and Asia in 
2018. 
Textbook Donations are another way that Lam supports 
university students. Lam donated over 350 textbooks 
to Hanyang University, Yonsei University, Chung Ang 
University, and Kwangwon University students in Korea. 
The donation provided Solid State Electronic Devices and 
Electronic Materials textbooks required for core classes.    
Celebrating Achievement - Leaders in Technical 
and Patented Innovation 
Lam Research celebrates and recognizes the employees 
who exemplify ground-breaking technical innovation and 
expertise. We give two annual awards to recognize these 
contributions:  Outstanding Technical Achievement Award   
This award recognizes sustained technical contributions of 
significant impact and exemplary leadership. It is awarded 
to those employees who embody Lam’s mission, vision, 
and Core Values. To be considered, an employee must: 
 • Participate as a leader in our technical community 
 • Consistently deliver technical contributions to our   
  customers and the company 
Patented Innovation Award  
This award recognizes outstanding patented technology 
issued in the U.S. in the last five years. Evaluation criteria 
include: 
 • Highly innovative technology 
 • Competitive differentiation 
 • Proven or anticipated (with high confidence)  
  commercial successWorkplace
2018 University 
Engagement Locations
United States Asia Europe South America20%20%2%
58%Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201816
Live Well Program  
The health and well-being of employees is critical to 
Lam’s sustainable success. The global Live Well program 
is designed to support the physical and mental health of 
employees in enriching ways at work, at home, and in the 
community. The program is focused around four areas: 
Eat, Move, Be Mindful, and Learn. The simplicity of these 
areas helps make wellness relatable and achievable for all 
employees. In 2018, we were honored with two awards 
from the American Heart Association. 
An online platform, launched in 2017, monitors 
employee participation. In 2018, 5,000 employees partic              
ated on that platform. Activities include both online 
and in-person training, education, health screens, fairs, 
speakers, and fitness programs.  
Employee challenges have been a particularly popular 
way to encourage employees to achieve positive 
health outcomes. Examples include a Winter Olympics 
Challenge, Blood Pressure Challenge, and Global Steps 
Challenge. More than 1,200 employees signed up for 
these competitions. 
This year, we focused on three major health problems 
in the U.S.: musculoskeletal, neoplasms (cancer), and 
behavioral health (mental health/depression). We 
offer a variety of programs to employees that directly 
address these health problems, including: lifestyle 
health coaching, personalized nutrition plans, biometric 
screenings, genetic testing to identify potential health 
issues, onsite blood pressure machines and 39 seminars 
on topics such as heart health, financial well-being and 
managing stress.Workplace
5,000
employees participating 
in Live Well program
67%
increase in participation
over 2017
39
wellness events 
in 2018
1,200
participants in 
Live Well challenges
Stepping Up for Wellness
Prateek Muchhal, software engineer in India 
was one of 1,200 employees to participate 
in the Global Steps Challenge in 2018. This 
annual challenge motivates individuals to set 
daily activity goals and motivate one another 
to achieve their goals. Lam’s wellness activities 
are designed to help employees build healthy, 
long term habits.  
Prateek tells us that he likes to have a balance 
of work and fitness, participating in a variety 
of activities such as cricket and marathons. 
Participating in the Global Steps Challenge and 
other Lam wellness activities ensures he stays 
accountable and consistent with his exercise. 
Prateek says, “I maintained a routine, even 
after completion of the challenge, to get up 
early and jog for at least five kilometers. I feel 
fresh when I come to work, have better mind 
control, and am more productive.”Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201817
Community 
 
Management Approach  
Through our global philanthropy programs, Lam supports 
organizations impacting issues that our employees care 
about. It is through these programs that the company 
extends its Core Values into the communities where our 
employees live and work. Our charitable giving includes 
grantmaking for education and quality of life initiatives, 
employee gift matching, volunteer activities, and disaster 
relief and recovery support. 
Grants to non-profits are primarily distributed through 
the Lam Research Foundation (“the foundation”) and are 
administered through partnerships with the Silicon Valley 
Community Foundation and the East Bay Community 
Foundation. In addition, some international grants are 
managed by Lam’s local offices. In 2018, foundation 
giving totaled $3.7 million, up 13% from $3.3 million 
in 2017. Altogether more than 1,154 unique charity 
organizations were supported. This includes grants, 
scholarships, and matching gifts.  
Employee Engagement   
Lam’s employee participation programs - matching dollars 
for employee donations and volunteer time, volunteer 
opportunities, and employee-sponsored grants to local 
charities - seek to support employees as they give back 
to their local communities around the globe and amplify 
their impact. 
In 2018, the foundation donated more than $800,000 in 
matching gifts to charities around the world. This was 
an expected reduction from 2017, when the total was a 
record $1.7 million because of a one-time, double-match 
campaign that contributed two dollars for every dollar 
match and doubled the volunteer hour match to $20 for 
every employee volunteer-hour.  
Employees volunteered 11,321 hours, up from 9,770 
hours in 2017. Activities ranged from helping families 
with school supplies, delivering meals, restoring the 
environment, mentoring and tutoring, supporting children 
and seniors in need, and fund-raising for charities.In Villach, Austria, Lam employees purchased and 
installed playground equipment for Hause Hernhilf youth 
home that supports children in difficult situations. In Osan City, Korea, employees participated in a “Clean-
up Campaign” of environmental conservation activities 
in the local community in commemoration of World 
Environment Day. During the 2018 annual holiday giving campaign, more 
than 2,100 employees all over the world provided food, 
toy, and clothing donations, and volunteered almost 
1,300 hours. Community
$100,000
Dollars distributed in Core Values Scholarships2018 Giving by the Numbers
$3.7M
Total dollars in donations
11,321
Number of hours volunteered$400K
Total dollars in scholarships$128K
Dollars in 
employee-sponsored 
grants2,044
Number of employee 
donations
LAM RESEARCH FOUNDATION
AND EMPLOYEE MATCHING1001
$PAY TO THE 
ORDER OF
DOLLARS
MEMO
| 001001 | 00009999 | 12345678 |2017
~3.3 Million 
Nearly three point three million 
 Lam Research Community SupportCharitable Donations$811K
Dollars in matching 
donations1,154
Number of charity 
organizations supported
2018 Giving by the Numbers
$3.7M
Total Dollars 
in Donations
$811K
in Matching
Donations$1.7M
in Quality of 
Life Grants$1.25M
STEM and
Education Grants;
Scholarships
2,044
Number of employee donations
11,321
Number of hours volunteered
1,154
Number of charity organizations supported
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201818
Charitable Grantmaking  
Our charitable grantmaking is focused on two key areas: 
Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) 
education/education support programs and “Quality 
of Life” grants for social impact. The achievement 
of students and young leaders in our communities is 
important to us, and by meeting community educational 
needs with sustainable programs, we expect to advance 
the quality of education and support the cultivation 
of a well-trained workforce. We are also committed to 
supporting our local communities around the world by 
investing in organizations that share our Core Values. 
STEM Education. A highly-skilled workforce is essential 
for the success of Lam today, and we believe that 
advancing student achievement in math and science 
education now will contribute to the future success of the 
semiconductor manufacturing industry. 
In addition to grants and volunteerism in support of K-12 
and university STEM-related initiatives, we also invite 
students to interact with our employees at our workplace 
and in the community to share their passion for STEM 
careers.
Grants support elementary, middle, and high school 
programs to address achievement gaps in underserved 
communities. In 2018, we increased funding for STEM 
and educational programs to more than $1.25 million, 
representing 34% percent of our total foundation giving 
in 2018.
Some of the programs that received these additional 
resources included: 
For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and 
Technology (FIRST) – a non-profit that engages youth 
in research and robotics programs. Lam provided a new 
$30,000 grant for a FIRST® Lego League program (for 
grades 4-8) in Fremont/Silicon Valley, California and our 
support of FIRST Robotics high school teams in Oregon 
and New York increased to $75,000. 
 
 Girls, Inc. – a non-profit aiming to inspire and empower 
girls and young women in Oregon. Lam supports the 
Eureka! program, a STEM-based approach to engaging 
and empowering 8th to 12th grade girls. We increased 
grant support from $15,000 to $25,000 to support the 
demand for that popular and successful program. 
As we expand our impact around the world, new 
education program partnerships include:  
Child Fund Korea – a non-profit that provides financial, 
physical and emotional support for children. Lam sponsors 
a program that teaches children how to code. 
Vidya Poshak in India – a non-profit that supports 
underprivileged students to pursue higher education.  
Lam sponsors the educational expenses of 25 students.
Community
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201819
National Science and Technology Museum in Taiwan –  
an organization that offers science and technology 
education for kids. Lam supports the museum’s robotic- 
related and coding programs. 
Saturday Academy in Oregon – a non-profit that 
connects students with community mentors and 
educators with a focus on STEM. Lam provides funding 
for their Girls Engage Technology (GET) program.
In addition to grantmaking for STEM/education programs, 
employees host manufacturing site visits so that, students 
can learn about Lam’s high-skill, high-paying jobs and 
its positive economic impact in the region. Visitors also 
get hands-on exposure to an advanced manufacturing 
environment to complement their STEM education. 
One such student tour is sponsored by a Lam employee 
group, “Community of Latinos and African Americans 
for Student Success” (CLASS) based in Fremont. Tours 
hosted by CLASS expose African American and Latino 
students to STEM careers and bring students from the 
Bay Area to Lam in Fremont to learn about the company’s 
technology and gain exposure to engineers and other 
professionals of similar ethnic backgrounds.  Quality of Life. Through the foundation, we contribute 
to local, national, and international organizations that 
help to improve people’s lives. This includes grantmaking 
to charities that support underserved populations and 
civic needs such as food and water security, support for 
disadvantaged children and senior citizens, assistance 
for economically disadvantaged communities, health 
improvement, and environmental protection.
In 2018, foundation giving for quality of life initiatives 
totaled almost $1.7 million to organizations such as the 
Singapore Children’s Society in support of their services 
for vulnerable youth, the American Heart Association 
for heart and stroke support programs, and numerous 
community food banks providing meals for those in need. Community
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201820 Community
Core Values Scholarship Alumni Share Their Achievements 
Each year, Lam awards scholarships of $10,000 each to graduating high school seniors from local high schools in 
California and Oregon. Students are chosen for exemplifying Lam’s Core Values. In 2018, we reached a significant 
milestone – awarding more than $1 million to over 100 students since 2003. Two of our recent Core Value Scholarship 
Alumni share their stories: 
Adam Mitchell was a Core Values Scholarship winner in 
2014 from Tualatin High School in Oregon. He graduated 
from Pomona College in Claremont, CA as a physics and 
astrophysics major. Currently he is at Georgetown University 
Law School. His most recent job was as a research assistant 
at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, CA. Adam 
is the first in his family to attend college and overcame 
obstacles associated with an autism diagnosis at the age 
of six. He sees himself as a role model for those with 
overlapping or similar identities.
Adam says, “I wish to pursue careers that I believe are noble, socially beneficial, and helpful to other people.” He thinks 
that it is important for anyone considering a STEM degree to know that multiple career options are available and that 
“STEM can be one of the most fulfilling and interesting subjects that you ever study.”  
Maryann Gong received her Core Values scholarship in 
2013 when she graduated from Granada High School 
in Livermore, California. She graduated from the 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and then 
earned a Master of Engineering degree in January of 2018. 
Currently she is a software engineer at Peloton Interactive in 
New York, NY .
Maryann shares how Lam’s Core Values influenced her in 
school and work: “During school, the values of teamwork, 
achievement, and honesty and integrity helped me keep 
a healthy mindset. Today, at work, I practice the values 
of open communication, which is key for working on a 
successful project.”
Maryann believes it is never too late to start a career in 
a STEM field. When she got to college she hadn’t taken 
any formal computer science courses. She initially felt very 
behind her peers, but she quickly overcame any perceived 
disadvantage. MIT was a formative place for Maryann. There 
she met many entrepreneurial individuals. She says, “They 
inspired me to do more and make an impact!” 
Core Values Scholarships Milestones
# of students 
that received 
Core Values Scholarships 
since 2003
118
Dollars awarded 
in Core Values 
Scholarships 
cumulative since 2003
$1,002,341Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201821
Operations: Environment  
and Safety
Environment   
Management Approach
Lam utilizes energy, water, and hazardous chemicals 
and generates waste in our operations. Accordingly, we 
carefully monitor and manage our environmental impact 
across the business – in manufacturing, during research 
and development and product design, and throughout 
a product’s lifecycle. We commit to complying with 
all applicable laws and regulations and protecting the 
health and safety of our employees, contractors, and 
customers. This commitment to environmental health and 
safety is foundational to our overall operations and how 
we manage our supply chain, risk, and compliance with 
government regulations. It also influences our energy, 
waste, and water management practices.
Lam maintains corporate level certification for the 
International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 
14001, a voluntary international environmental 
management standard that provides a framework for 
effective environmental management systems. We have 
maintained this certification since 2003. Responsibility 
for the overall environmental program and related 
sustainability initiatives are assigned to the global 
Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) group at Lam. 
Global EHS reports through Global Customer Operations 
to the CEO. Additionally, the global workplace solutions 
(GWS) group is responsible for energy efficiency and 
renewable energy projects. GWS has key performance 
indicators (KPI) on energy conservation and savings that 
are tied to their annual performance monitoring process. 
GWS reports through Global Operations (GOps) to the 
CEO.
Risk Management
Risk management is an important part of the 
management philosophy at Lam. The purpose of risk 
management is to identify and evaluate the hazards 
and risks faced by the organization, and to responsively 
monitor and manage those risks. As part of our formal 
risk management process, we monitor potential safety, 
environmental, and regulatory issues. Our teams also 
determine how environmental and climate change regulations impact our business operations and what 
operational control methods we must apply to mitigate 
the risks and ensure compliance.
Global EHS has developed and implemented a global 
EHS risk management program to standardize Lam’s EHS 
risk assessment process. In 2018, the program included 
EHS risk assessments at our factory sites at Osan, Villach, 
Livermore, Tualatin, and Fremont campuses, Silfex 
sites (both Eaton and Springfield) as well as Tualatin’s 
warehouse operations. No unmitigated high-risk activities 
or processes were identified during these assessments.
Regulatory Compliance
Lam is subject to a variety of governmental regulations 
related to the management of hazardous materials 
that we use in our business operations. In 2018, we 
had no pending notices of violations, fines, lawsuits, or 
investigations arising from environmental matters that 
would have a material effect on our business.Operations: Environment and Safety
Commitment to Addressing Climate Change  
Lam recognizes that as a global business with manufacturing operations our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
contribute to climate change, and we strive to reduce those impacts. We also support climate initiatives asserted 
by SEMATECH and transparently report on our environmental performance in this annual CSR report and the CDP 
(formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) Questionnaire.
In support of the American Business Act on Climate Pledge enacted in 2015, we identified and publicly committed 
to achieve the following goals by 2020: 
 • Reduce our GHG intensity by 20% from a 2012 baseline 
 • Achieve an accumulated 14 million kilowatt hours (kWh) of energy savings through implementation  
  of energy-efficiency projects among our global facilities compared to a 2012 baseline
 • Build all new buildings to EPA ENERGY STAR standards
 • Have our U.S. operations rely on 25% renewable energy sources by 2020
 • Consistently expand the product and service offerings that enable customers to curb GHG emissions 
  and chemical consumption within their operations 
In 2018, we made significant progress towards our Climate Pledge goals to save energy and reduce emissions 
through a variety of activities. We also made further investments in managing and measuring our environmental 
impacts by adopting a new technology platform. This new platform will help ensure consistency and accuracy in our 
data collection, streamline data analysis, and support future goal setting. Our operational and sustainability teams 
are actively engaged to ensure we meet our energy goals, which we are currently on track to achieve. Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201822
Responsible Business Alliance Evaluation
Lam evaluates our corporate headquarters in Fremont and 
our major manufacturing sites in Livermore, California; 
Tualatin, Oregon; Villach, Austria; and Osan, Korea 
annually using the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) 
self-assessment questionnaire. This assessment covers 
a set of standards on labor, environmental, health and 
safety, and ethical issues. We use this tool to gauge our 
progress and continuously improve in these areas. In 
2018, Lam was determined to be low-risk with overall 
scores ranging from 87% to 90%.Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Lam’s Scopes 1, 2, and 3 emissions increased over 2017. 
The 4% increase in Scope 1 emissions in 2018 is mainly 
due to the increased usage of process nitrous oxide for 
research and development at the Tualatin campus. The 
23% increase in Scope 2 emissions in 2018 is primarily due 
to the addition of Korea and Silfex utility consumption. 
Korea and Silfex data were previously not included in the 
CSR report. Scope 1 & 2 Emissions 
Lam pledged to decrease our Scope 1 and 2 emissions 
by 20% using an intensity metric tons of carbon dioxide 
equivalent (MTCO2e) per $1,000 of R&D spend. In 2018, 
Lam’s GHG intensity metric was 30% below our 2012 
baseline, surpassing our stated goal.
Scope 3 Emissions 
The calculated Scope 3 emissions are 34,565 MTCO2e, 
which are attributed to our global business travel. The 
emissions associated with business travel are for global 
employees’ air travel, car rentals, and campus shuttle 
buses. Lam offset 23,743 MTCO2e from business travel, 
via carbon credits, representing 69% of our measured 
Scope 3 emissions, see inset for further details. Lam’s 
global site distribution creates difficulties in capturing 
100% of our emissions associated with business travel. 
The travel data Lam collects and currently offsets 
represents approximately 80% of total travel for the 
company.  Lam utilizes multiple suppliers to design, assemble, test, 
and install semiconductor equipment. Calculating Scope 
3 emissions from purchased goods and services and 
upstream transportation is difficult to quantify due to the 
number of suppliers, variability in our operations, and 
various geographic locations. Operations: Environment and Safety
0.0000.0200.0400.0600.0800.1000.120
 - 10,000 20,000 30,000 40,000 50,000 60,000 70,000 80,000 90,000 100,000
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018Metric Tons CO2e/$1,000R&D spend Metric Tons CO2e
Calendar YearScope 1 & 2 GHG Emissions and Intensity
Scope 1 total Scope 2 total  (Market-Based) Scope 1 and 2/$R&D spend2020 Goal
Carbon Offsets Mitigate Scope 3 Emissions 
In 2018, Lam purchased carbon credits offsetting 
23,743 MTCO2e of our global employees’ air and 
rental car travel and the employee shuttle. The 
carbon credits fund the following sustainability 
projects:
Lam offsets a portion of air travel through the 
Tonk Biomass Project. This Gold Standard project 
generates clean energy from mustard crop residues in 
Tonk, India. Since 2008, Kalpataru Power Transmission 
Limited (KPTL) and Atmosfair cooperate in the Tonk 
Biomass Project. Their goal is to produce renewable 
energy at comparable prices to electricity from 
coal power plants. To reach this goal they have 
continuously improved the efficiency of the power 
plant as well as streamlined operations in the biomass 
storage and delivery system. In 2018, this resulted 
in 44,596 MWh of renewable electricity fed into 
the grid, which equals 43 MTCO2e mitigated by 
the project. Until 
2022, additional 
funding generated 
will ensure that 
the power plant 
generates clean 
electricity along with 
additional income 
for local farmers 
who sell their crop 
residues to KPTL.
Lam offsets a 
portion of car 
rentals and shuttles 
with credits from Big Smile Wind Farm at Dempsey 
Ridge, Oklahoma. This project delivers enough clean 
energy to power more than 46,000 U.S. homes.
Lam will continue to fund both projects in 2019. 
Certificate
for offsetting greenhouse gas emissions
Lam Research has offset 5,824,000 kg 
of CO 2 greenhouse gases from flights between Oct 01, 
2017 and Dec 31, 2017.
What does your climate protection contribution accomplish?
With your climate protection contribution of 40,476.80 USD, you are supporting the 
following project:
India: electricity from crop residues 
atmosfair supports thousands of small farmers to sell their previously worthless crop 
waste to biomass plants. Thereby, fossil fuels are replaced by renewable energy sources.
atmosfair operates its projects according to the Clean Development Mechanism
(CDM) outlined in the Kyoto Protocol as well as the “Gold Standard” established by
international environmental organisations. Independent organisations approved by
the United Nations (e.g., TÜV) audit the projects’ actual CO2 reductions.
See more at
www.atmosfair.de/en
GHG Emissions Scope12018 MTCO2e % change (Y/Y)  
Scope 1 Emissions227,426 4% increase 
Scope 2 Location Based 
Emissions65,137 23% increase 
Scope 2 Market Based 
Emissions364,026 23% increase 
Scope 3 Emissions 34,565 24% decrease 
1 2018 data include Fremont, Livermore, Tualatin, Villach, Korea, and Silfex.  
2 Scopes 1-2: We use the Austria National Emission Factors to calculate the Scope 1 and 2 emissions from 
their operations. In 2018, our Scope 1 emission for U.S. facilities are calculated using Fourth Assessment 
(AR4) Global Warming Potentials.   
3 Our facility in Austria obtains 100% of its electricity from a renewable energy market-based instrument. 
As per the market-based method of the Scope 2 Protocol, we are reporting 0 MTCO2e for Scope 2 
market-based emission at this facility.  
CDP  
Lam discloses our carbon footprint, water data, and 
climate-and-water-related risks and opportunities 
through CDP .  In 2018, Lam received a “B” grade on 
the Climate Change Survey and “B-“ on the Water 
Survey.  These scores are higher than the general 
sector average and North America regional average 
and have shown improvement over 2017. 
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201823
Energy Savings 
Lam pledged to achieve an accumulated 14 million kWh 
of energy savings through implementation of energy-
efficiency projects among our global facilities compared 
to a 2012 baseline. We are currently at 75% of our 2020 
goal. To date, our accumulated energy savings are 10.4 
million kWh, up from 4.4 million kWh in 2017. In 2018, we 
invested in a variety of energy efficiency projects to make 
significant progress toward our goal. 
Energy efficiency projects in 2018 included:
 • LED lighting. Upgrades installed in May of 2018 at 
  our Fremont campus produced 1.8 million kWh 
  savings. More than 7,000 lighting fixtures were  
  replaced with energy-efficient LED lighting, and 
  100% of old lamps were recycled. In addition,  
  employees have expressed increased satisfaction  
  with their workplace lighting. Lam estimates future  
  savings of 2.2 million kWh annually from this project.
 • Gas burner system upgrades. At our Tualatin site,
   we installed a modulating burner system for   
  building heating using natural gas that is more 
  efficient and produces fewer GHGs than the original 
  steam boiler. The new unit saved 31,000 kWh in 
  2018 and will achieve savings of more than 
  120,000 kWh annually. 
In 2019, we plan to implement new energy efficiency 
projects to meet our 2020 goals. Planned projects in 2019 
include:
 • Process cooling water system. Two process cooling 
  water systems in our Osan, Korea plant will be 
  consolidated in 2019. The system will store and 
  recirculate water used in the manufacturing process.  
  Lam estimates annual savings from this project of 
  147,000 kWh. • Compressor consolidation. In our two 120,000 
  ft2 manufacturing facilities in Livermore, California 
  we will consolidate two compressors and dryers. 
  These compressors support clean dry air in our clean 
  room environments. Lam estimates annual savings  
  from this project of 600,000 kWh. 
Overall energy use from our facilities continues to 
increase mainly due to increased production capacity. The 
significant increase in our energy consumption in 2018 
was primarily driven by including energy consumption at 
our Silfex facilities for the first time. 
ENERGY STAR Standards  
Lam pledged to build all new buildings to Environmental 
Protection Agency ENERGY STAR standards. Currently, 
twelve Lam facilities incorporate ENERGY STAR certified 
products and standards and one new building has been 
built to ENERGY STAR standards. Renewable Energy  
Lam pledged to have our U.S. operations rely on 25% 
renewable energy sources by 2020.
Our data indicates that renewable energy makes up 
35% (or 68.7 million kWh) of our 2018 global energy use 
and approximately 33% (or 60.2 million kWh) of our U.S. 
energy use. In the base year 2012, the percentage of 
renewable energy sources in the U.S. was 15%.
In Villach, Austria, we completed our largest solar project 
to date: the installation of 3,904 solar photovoltaic panels 
(pictured above). In 2019, we estimate that 2.4 million 
kWh will be produced. This will provide approximately 15-
17% of our total energy consumption for that site.Lam provides onsite electric vehicle charging stations at 
three facilities that contribute to reduction in emissions 
associated with commuting. Lam currently has 34 
charging stations in operation, a 42% increase over 2017. 
In 2018, employee usage of the stations equaled over 
23,000 gallons in gasoline savings and a reduction of 77 
MTCO2e.
Products and Services with Environmental Features  
Lam pledged to design our products to use less energy, 
water, and chemicals; extend the life of products to 
ensure less waste; and adopt production techniques that 
minimize energy use. To respond to customer demand, 
we have a goal of 30% energy reduction per wafer by 
2020 (from a 2015 baseline). We approach the reduction 
of power usage of our products in two ways: productivity 
improvements (reducing the amount of energy consumed 
in making each wafer) and pure energy savings (building 
our equipment with more energy-efficient heaters, radio 
frequency power sources, and other components). Eco-
mode is now offered as an optional feature that places 
pumps and scrubbers in idle mode when not in use. 
Our spare parts, systems upgrades, and refurbishment 
programs help our customers increase productivity and 
extend the longevity of their manufacturing equipment.
We continue to invest in R&D to extend the life and 
productivity of our products, which ultimately saves 
materials and energy. One ongoing project is the energy 
reduction features in our deposition products which 050,000,000100,000,000150,000,000200,000,000250,000,000
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018Kilowatt Hours
Calendar YearAnnual Energy Consumption05101520253035
2012 2016 2017 2018Percent of Total 
Calendar YearEnergy From Renewable Sources in U.S.
2020 Goal
25%Operations: Environment and Safety
2020 Goal, 
14,000,000
02,000,0004,000,0006,000,0008,000,00010,000,00012,000,00014,000,00016,000,000
2015 2016 2017 2018Kilowatt Hours
Calendar YearAccumulated Energy SavingsLam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201824
gained momentum in 2018. An estimated 11% energy 
reduction related to process cooling water and exhaust 
can be achieved in certain configurations.
Lam’s Customer Support Business Group (CSBG) focuses 
significant attention on delivering solutions that meet our 
customers’ technical requirements as well as productivity 
needs during the equipment lifecycle. This growing 
business of Lam enables our customers’ success by 
delivering world-class service and lifecycle solutions for 
their most critical equipment and process challenges. 
Through our product buy-back program, we’re able 
to lessen the environmental impact and extend the 
service life of our tools. Used products from customers 
are refurbished, repurposed, reconfigured, and either 
re-sold to other customers or re-used for research and 
development in our labs.   
Waste: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle
Lam carefully monitors and manages hazardous and non-
hazardous waste generation as a result of our operations. 
We report our impact and have operational programs in 
place to ensure that we comply with applicable laws and 
regulations.
Non-Hazardous Waste  
Solid waste at Lam’s facilities is segregated with the 
primary intention of diverting waste from landfills and 
other disposal sites through recycling and reuse. In 
2018, 57% of non-hazardous solid waste was recycled, 
a decrease from 70% in 2017. The total mass of non-
hazardous recycled waste was 3,986 Metric Tons (MT) 
in 2018, an increase of 76% from 2,260 MT in 2017. The 
total mass of non-hazardous waste generated was 6,939 
MT in 2018, an increase of 114% from 3,236 MT in 2017. 
These changes are primarily due to the addition of Silfex 
data in 2018. Foam packaging is one of the major non-hazardous 
waste streams at our Livermore location. Lam installed 
a foam densifier in 2011 that grinds and melts the foam 
packaging and forms it into ingots which are then sold 
to manufacturers of polyethylene products. In 2018, we 
recycled 89 metric tons of densified foam, a 13% increase 
over 2017. 
Use a Cup. Save the Earth
Lam Korea employees launched a Save the Earth 
Campaign to replace bottled water with personal mugs 
and cups. Since the start of the campaign in August, the 
operation has cut plastic water bottle consumption by 
36%, from a base of more than 2,400 water bottles per 
month. 
Hazardous Waste  
Lam is aware of environmental risks and legal obligations 
related to hazardous materials and chemicals and takes 
all appropriate measures to keep operations safe. 
The majority of Lam’s hazardous wastes are corrosive 
inorganic and heavy metal wastes, flammable solvent 
wastes, and lab debris from semiconductor processes in 
our R&D operations. The overall recycling diversion rate for our hazardous 
waste in 2018 was 28% compared to the previous 
year’s diversion rate of 23%. The total mass of recycled 
hazardous waste was 505 MT in 2018, an increase of 78% 
from 284 MT in 2017. The total mass of hazardous waste 
generated was 1,788 MT in 2018, an increase of 47% from 
1,219 MT in 2017. The significant increase is due to an 
increase in concentrated mixed heavy metal wastewater 
generated at the Tualatin site; the waste is sent to a 
recycling facility for metal recovery.
In 2018, as part of our due diligence and environmental 
efforts, Lam initiated a risk assessment of our major 
hazardous waste management vendors and their transportation, storage, and disposal facilities (TSDFs). 
Lam partnered with CHWMEG, a non-profit trade 
association, to conduct comprehensive reviews of 
commercial TSDFs. In 2018, we audited six major TSDFs 
in the U.S., which resulted in no major findings. In 2019, 
we will continue our assessment of eight more TSDFs 
used by our manufacturing sites. The main objective 
is to identify and mitigate potential liability related to 
hazardous waste generated by our manufacturing and 
R&D activities.  Operations: Environment and Safety
 - 20 40 60 80
 - 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000
2015 2016 2017 2018Diversion RateMetric Tons
Calendar YearNon-hazardous Waste Generation 
and Diversion
Total non-hazardous waste Non-hazardous waste diversion rate - 5 10 15 20 25 30
 - 500 1,000 1,500 2,000
2015 2016 2017 2018Diversion rateMetric Tons
Calendar YearHazardous Waste Generation and Diversion
Total hazardous waste Hazardous waste diversion rate
Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201825
Packaging  
In 2018, Lam laid the foundation with several key 
suppliers to implement new thermoformed packaging 
technology. Initial volume was minimal, representing an 
estimated reduction of 2.7 MTCO2e. With planned roll 
outs of the new packaging in 2019, Lam is estimating a 
packaging emissions reduction of 72.3 MTCO2e. 
Chemical Management System
In 2018, Lam began developing an integrated chemical 
inventory management system. When fully implemented 
in 2019, this system will connect physical real-time 
inventory to procurement, usage conditions, and 
regulatory reporting for chemical users, handlers, and 
planners. The result will be improved chemical usage 
efficiency, reduced waste, and greater transparency 
across lab locations. 
Water  
In 2018, globally we used 191 million gallons of water. As 
part of the permit requirements, we monitor and measure 
total discharge to the sanitary sewer, and the data are 
included in our semi-annual self-monitoring reports to the 
regulatory agencies.
Our Fremont facility received a Certificate of Merit from 
its regional water management utility, the Union Sanitary 
District, a distinction it has earned for eight consecutive 
years. The District recognized the Fremont site for its 
consistent compliance with pretreatment regulations, 
implementation of pollution prevention measures, and 
demonstration of its awareness and understanding of 
environmental issues. 
 Operations: Environment and Safety
Tualatin Facility Leads in Reuse and Reclaimed Water Use
Our Tualatin facility reclaims treated process wastewater and uses it as feed water to the house scrubbers 
and point-of-use abatement units in the research and development labs. For the past three years, 87% 
of total treated wastewater in Tualatin has been reclaimed. In 2018, we reclaimed 86 million gallons an 
increase of 8% from 2017. The reclaimed water helps reduce our total global water withdrawals and the 
volume of municipal water needed to support our facility infrastructure.   Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201826
Health and Safety
Management Approach
At Lam, the safety of our employees is critical. We 
aim to protect the health and safety of our personnel 
throughout our entire operation, including in our 
offices, manufacturing sites, R&D centers, and our field 
teams working at customer sites. We recognize that 
behavior and training are the most important factors 
in preventing injuries and safety incidents. Therefore, 
we have a rigorous health and safety program that 
uses consultation, education, behavior monitoring, and 
awareness to reinforce that safety is the responsibility 
of every employee, contractor, customer, supplier, and 
visitor. This culture forms the basis of our strong record of 
safety performance.
We believe that all workplace injuries and safety incidents 
are preventable. With continued investment in injury 
prevention and education programs, we strive to achieve 
an incident-free workplace and ensure that our employees 
return home safe every day. 
Our EHS management system in Fremont is externally 
certified to the internationally recognized Occupational 
Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001 
standard. In 2019, Lam will begin preparation at our 
Osan and Fremont sites to achieve third-party validation 
to ISO 45001, the new international standard for safety 
management systems, published in March 2018. The goal of ISO 45001 is to help organizations achieve further 
reduction of occupational injuries and diseases, and it 
is based on OHSAS 18001 conventions and guidelines 
which will be replaced once 45001 certification is 
achieved in 2020. 
Injury Rates and Risk Management  
Lam ended 2018 with a global recordable injury rate 
of 0.29, less than half the semiconductor equipment 
manufacturing industry average of 0.6. There were no 
fatalities. The most common injuries, representing nearly 
90% of all injuries in 2018 include: strains and sprains; 
slips, trips and falls; struck by or against objects; and 
pinched by or caught in objects.Much of our success in sustaining our low recordable 
rate is due to our proactive prevention and awareness 
programs. A key element of these programs is our 
employee- and management-driven Risk Management 
By Walking Around (RMBWA) inspection process. The 
RMBWA inspections not only help us identify and track 
corrective actions for potential health and safety risks, 
they drive active engagement by our workforce. We use 
the inspection findings to identify areas for additional 
focus and training and to inform what topics we include 
in our regular safety updates to employees. In 2018, we 
logged 191,822 RMBWA inspections worldwide, up from 
132,320 RMBWA inspections in 2017. 
Another key EHS tool is the global Rapid Field Risk 
Assessment (RFA), which is designed to help our field 
personnel assess and mitigate risks associated with 
non-standard tasks at customer sites. In addition, Lam’s 
Safety Awareness for Everyone (SAFE) program engages 
employees in safety training that is topical and relevant 
and directly addresses issues identified in our RMBWA 
process. We share safety messages monthly with our 
employees who work in manufacturing, laboratories, 
operations, and at customer sites. Other employees 
receive SAFE messages quarterly, which are mandatory 
for all employees.
In 2018, our safety programs focused on four areas 
to continue our move beyond regulatory compliance 
and management systems to an even more proactive 
approach of risk prevention: 
 • Risk assessments and audits of critical sites, such as 
  manufacturing facilities and field-service offices.  
 • Risk audits of waste management service 
  provider facilities  
 • Developing the ability of contractor management  
  to assess risks
 • Increasing auditing processes and programs 
Utilizing these tools and focusing on preventative action 
contributed to Lam receiving seven awards from five 
customers for safety performance. One customer named 
Lam as an outstanding vendor for EHS Management. 
This recognition is an appreciated reinforcement of our 
commitment to safety. Operations: Environment and Safety
0.81.1 1.1
0.6
0.42
0.330.280.350.29
0.000.250.500.751.001.25
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018Rate per 100 Employees
Calendar YearRecordable Injury Rate (Lam vs Indus try)1 
Industry Avg Lam Rate
1 2018 industry average for recordable injury rates data not available at time of publicationLam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201827
Performance SummarySummary
Performance Area 2016 2017 2018
Company Overview
Number of full-time employees ~8,200 ~10,200 ~10,950
Revenue1$5.9B $8.0B $11.1B
R&D spend (as percentage of 
operating expenses)1~$914M (59%) ~$1.0B (61%) ~$1.2B (61%)
Workplace
Employee retention rate 94% 95% 93%
Average service years 8.3 7.3 7.2
Giving by the Lam Research 
Foundation$2.1M $3.3M $3.7M
EHS Management System
RMBWA 77,256 132,320 191,822
OSHA recordable incident rate 0.33 0.28 0.35
GHG emissions Scopes 1 and 2 (MT 
CO2e)73,082 78,370 92,563
GHG emissions Scope 3 (MT CO2e) 33,275 241,032 34,565 
Hazardous waste diversion 18% 23% 28%
Recycling diversion 61% 70% 57%
Water usage (cubic meters) 609,101 586,870 723,013
Number of environmental fines 0 0 0
_______________________________________________________ 
1. All figures are for calendar year, with the exception of 
revenue and R&D spend which are presented on a fiscal year 
basis: 2016 is for the fiscal year ending June 26, 2016; 2017 is 
for the fiscal year ending June 25, 2017; 2018 is for the fiscal 
year ending June 24, 2018. M is defined as million  
and B is defined as billion.Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201828
GRI IndexGRI Index
GRI 102 General Disclosures
Disclosure 102-1 Name of the organization Company Overview, p.7 
Disclosure 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Company Overview, p.7 
Disclosure 102-3 Location of headquarters Fremont, Calif. USA 
Disclosure 102-4 Location of operations Company Overview, p.8 
Disclosure 102-5 Ownership and legal form Company Overview, p.8 -The company’s stock is publicly traded on the Nasdaq under the symbol LRCX.  
Disclosure 102-6 Markets served Company Overview, p.8 
Disclosure 102-7 Scale of the organization Company Overview, p.8 
Disclosure 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Workplace, p.11 
Disclosure 102-9 Supply chain Company Overview, p.10 
Disclosure 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain About This Report, p.10 
Disclosure 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Yes 
Disclosure 102-12 External initiatives Company overview, p.10. ; Community, p.17-20; Environment and Safety, p.21-22 
**Confirm Disclosure 102-13 Membership of associations Institute of Supply Chain Management, p.11; SEMI,  p.11; GEM Consortium, p.13; University Engagements, p.15; East Bay and Silicon V alley Foundations, p.17; ISO, p. 21.27; RBA, p.21; SEMATECH, p 21; 
CDP , p.22-23; CHWMEG, p.25.
Disclosure 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO Letter, p.3 
Disclosure 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 2018 10-k, p.13  ; Letter to Stockholders 
Disclosure 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Company Overview, p.9 
Disclosure 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Company Overview, p.9 
Disclosure 102-18 Governance structure 2018 Proxy Statement, Governance Matters , p.7+ 
Disclosure 102-19 Delegating authority About This Report, p.4 
Disclosure 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics Yes 
Disclosure 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics About this Report,  p.4 
Disclosure 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 2018 Proxy Statement, Governance Matters, p.10+ 
Disclosure 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Stephen G. Newberry 
Disclosure 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 2018 Proxy Statement, Governance Matters, p.7 
Disclosure 102-25 Conflicts of interest 2018 Proxy Statement, Governance Matters, p.7 
Disclosure 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy About This Report, p. 4 
Disclosure 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 2018 Proxy Statement, p.2 , p.46, p.52
Disclosure 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 2018 Proxy Statement, Compensation Matters, p. 16+ 
Disclosure 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts About this Report, Lam’s Approach to CSR, p.4 
Disclosure 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 2018 10-k, p.12 , p.13+  
Disclosure 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics About this Report, Lam’s Approach to CSR, p.4 
Disclosure 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting About This Report, p.4 
Disclosure 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Critical concerns are elevated to the Board of Directors at the discretion of the Executive Committee 
Disclosure 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns Not available.  
Disclosure 102-35 Remuneration policies 2018 Proxy Statement, Exec. Compensation Highlights, p.16+ 
Disclosure 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 2018 Proxy Statement, Exec Compensation Highlights, p.16+ 
Disclosure 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 2018 Proxy Statement, p.53+ 
Disclosure 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 2018 Proxy Statement, p.40 
Not in 2017. Disclosure 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio 2018 was the first disclosure.  
Disclosure 102-40 List of stakeholder groups About This Report, Stakeholder Engagement, p.5 
Disclosure 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements None 
Disclosure 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders About this Report, p.5 
Disclosure 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement About this Report, Stakeholder Engagement, p.6 
Disclosure 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised About this Report, p.5 
Disclosure 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 2018 10-k, Exhibit 21 
Disclosure 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries About This Report, p.4 
Disclosure 102-47 List of material topics About This Report, p.5 Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201829
GRI Index (continued)GRI Index
Disclosure 102-48 Restatements of information None. 
Disclosure 102-49 Changes in reporting Workplace, p.12 
Disclosure 102-50 Reporting period Calendar Year 2018, Exceptions noted 
Disclosure 102-51 Date of most recent report 2017 
Disclosure 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 
Disclosure 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report CSR@lamresearch.com 
Disclosure 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards About This Report, p.4 
Disclosure 102-55 GRI content index Yes 
Disclosure 102-56 External assurance No 
GRI 103 Management Approach   
Disclosure 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary About This Report, p.4-5 
Disclosure 103-2 The management approach and its components Workplace, p.11.; Environment, p.21; Safety, p. 26; Community, p. 17 
Disclosure 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Workplace, p.11.; Environment, p.21; Safety, p.26; Community, p.17 
GRI 201 Economic Performance   
Disclosure 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed investor.lamresearch.com, CSR Report, p.8 
Disclosure 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change CSR Report, p.21; 2018 CDP Report, section 5.1  
Disclosure 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 2018 10-k, p.47 
Disclosure 201-4 Financial assistance received from government None 
GRI 202 Market Presence  
Disclosure 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage We consider this information confidential. 
Disclosure 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community All executives leading international operations are local.  
GRI 203 Economic Impacts   
Disclosure 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported None 
Disclosure 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Community, p.17 
GRI 204 Procurement Practices   
1. Management approach disclosures Company Overview, p.10 
2. Topic-specific disclosures Company Overview, Global Supply Chain, p.10  
GRI 205 Anti-corruption   
Disclosure 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 00% 
Disclosure 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Company Overview, p.10 
Disclosure 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken We consider this information confidential. 
GRI 206 Anti-competitive Behavior   
Disclosure 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices None 
Environment   
GRI 301 Materials   
   
Disclosure 301-2 Recycled input materials used Environment and Safety, p.24 
Disclosure 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials Environment and Safety, p.25 
GRI 302 Energy   
Disclosure 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Environment and Safety, p.23  
Disclosure 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization We do not track this information. 
 c Environment and Safety,Scope 2 intensity metric , p.22 
Disclosure 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Environment and Safety, p.23 
Disclosure 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Environment and Safety, p.23 
GRI 303 Water Environment and Safety, p.23-24
GRI 304 Biodiversity   
Disclosure 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high 
biodiversity value outside protected areasNone known 
Disclosure 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity None knownLam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201830
GRI Index (continued)GRI Index
   
Disclosure 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by 
operationsNone known
GRI 305 Emissions   
Disclosure 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Environment and Safety, p.22 
Disclosure 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Environment and Safety, p.22 
Disclosure 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Environment and Safety, p.22 
Disclosure 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Environment and Safety, p.22 
Disclosure 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Environment and Safety, p.22 
   
   
GRI 306 Effluents and Waste   
Disclosure 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Environment and Safety, p.25 
Disclosure 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Environment and Safety, p.24 
Disclosure 306-3 Significant spills None 
   
Disclosure 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff Minimal impact to the Tualatin River in OR, Arroyo Las Positas Creek in CA,  Coyote Creek in CA, Mud Slough in CA, and the Greater Miami in OH.  
GRI 307 Environmental Compliance    
Disclosure 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations None 
GRI 308 Supplier Environmental Assessment   
Disclosure 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria None 
Disclosure 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken None known
Social   
GRI 401 Employment   
Disclosure 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Workplace, p.11 
   
   
GRI 402 Labor/Management Relations   
Disclosure 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes Varies by Local Law. 
GRI 403 Occupational Health and Safety  
Disclosure 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees Employees of all levels are extensively involved in safety monitoring and initiatives. 
Disclosure 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and 
number of work-related fatalitiesEnvironment and Safety, p.26 
Disclosure 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation None 
   
GRI 404 Training and Education   
Disclosure 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Workplace, p.13 
Disclosure 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Workplace, p.13-15 
   
GRI 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity  
Disclosure 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Workplace, p.12 
Disclosure 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Not reported
GRI 406 Non-discrimination   
   
GRI 407 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining   
Disclosure 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining 
may be at riskNone
GRI 408 Child Labor   
Disclosure 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor About this Report, p.6 Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201831
GRI Index (continued)GRI Index
GRI 409 Forced or Compulsory Labor   
Disclosure 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor Company Overview, p.10 
   
   
GRI 411 Rights of Indigenous Peoples   
Disclosure 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples None 
GRI 412 Human Rights Assessment   
Disclosure 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments Company Overview, p.10 
 Disclosure 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Company Overview p.10 
   
GRI 413 Local Communities   
Disclosure 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development 
programsCommunity, p.17 
   
GRI 414 Supplier Social Assessment   
Disclosure 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Company Overview, p.10 
   
GRI 415 Public Policy   
Disclosure 415-1 Political contributions None
GRI 416 Customer Health and Safety   
Disclosure 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories Environment and Safety,  p.21 
   
GRI 417 Marketing and Labeling   
   
Disclosure 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling None 
   
GRI 418 Customer Privacy   
Disclosure 418-1 Substantiated complaints regarding concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of 
customer dataNone Lam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201832
References
Lam Research 
Products  
 
Annual Reports  
 
Corporate Social Responsibility  
 
Code of Ethics 
Supply Chain Policies  
 
Lam Research Global EHS Sustainability Commitment 
Policy  
 
CREDITS   
Many employees supported the development of Lam’s 
CSR program and this reporting effort. We would like 
to thank them for their ongoing contributions as we 
continue to integrate CSR into our corporate culture. 
CONTACT INFORMATION   
If you have questions regarding this report  
or Lam’s CSR activities, please contact: 
CSR@lamresearch.com. ReferencesLam Research | Corporate Social Responsibility Report 201833
www.lamresearch.com
Lam Research Corporation
 4650 Cushing Parkway
Fremont, CA 94538
510.572.0200
Connect with us: