SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 201683          Attachments
84          The company
85          Strategy
86          Environment
88          People
89           About the report
91           Credits60         People
61          Greater preparation and efficiency55          Safety
56          Integration and excellence33         Strategy
34         Anticipating trends
36         Financial and operating results03          Presentation
04         2016 highlights
07          Message from the chairman 
of the Board of Directors
09         Message from the CEO
Summary
Click on the buttons to 
navigate the PDF.65         Generating value for society
66         Latin America in focus
69         Corporate citizenship and philanthropy73          About the report
74           Reporting process and materiality
75          GRI content index
81          Global Compact
82          Assurance
11         The company
12         From South America to the world
15         Dialogue and joint construction
18          Supply chain
21         Awards and recognition
22         Governance
23         Constant improvement
27         Evolving risk management
29         Managing for sustainability49         Clients
50         Enhancing relations38         Environment
39         Addressing climate change
43         Growing eco-efficiency
46         Policies and systems
2
Cover: Chiloé, ChilePresentation
In this chapter
 04 2016 HIGHLIGHTS
  07 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN   OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
 09   MESSAGE FROM THE CEO
32016 Highlights
67 
millionLAUNCH OF NEW LATAM BRAND DURING 
THE 2016 RIO OL YMPIC GAMES
944,000 
metric tons passengers 
transported to 135 destinations US$ 69.2 
          million
US$ 1.5 
          millionRESILIENCE TO ECONOMIC 
CONJUNCTURE
Ebitda in net income
of cargo transported to 138 destinationsCLIENT FOCUS
Among the best in the world
In 2016, for the third year running 
LATAM was listed on the Dow Jones World Sustainability Index. Only two airlines in the world are in this group.Digital check in (via application or website): 
50.1%App LATAM: 
4 million users
26.1 
million members in loyalty programs: 
15.4% up on 201514 
new routes and 
reinforcement of strategic hubsEMPLOYEES (%)
Total
45,91650.9
5.7
25.4Brazil
Peru                Argentina
ChileColombia              Ecuador                                                                                   Others                             
3.43.23.1
8.3 60
25nationalities
countries
4ENVIRONMENTAL CARE
8.3% 
2.3% 
91%  more efficient than 
the industry average
reduction in greenhouse gas emissions 
of the operations 
have environmental management systemsCARE IN SUPPLIER CHAIN
100% 
of the supplier chain is submitted to significant 
social risk assessment, such as participation in cor -
ruption schemes, financing of terrorism and drug traffic, exploitation of child and slave labor and oth-ers. This is monitored via international data bases.
14,204  
assessments  
conducted  
in 2016TRANSPARENT  
SOCIAL ACTIONS
LATAM has a corporate policy that clearly sets forth the criteria, validation stages and responsibilities for charitable donations.
Fuel savings: enough for  
1,244 return flights from Santiago (Chile) to New York (USA) SCL             JFK
Fleet renewal, with aircraft that consume up to 25% less fuel and generate 50% less noisefuel use
5,460 hours dedicated to volunteer workCommunity  
              investments
Commercial 
initiativesCharitable 
donations
1 Includes: donation of air tickets, free or discounted cargo transportation, free 
advertising space for social initiatives, financial contributions for institutions and 
investments in management and infrastructure for company's own social programs.14.50%
25.89%59.61%US$ 4.8 million   
in philanthropic actions1 
5AFFILIATES
95% Enhancing its commitment to punctuality, 
LATAM Airlines Argentina achieved a rate of LATAM Airlines Brazil was the first company to receive the Airbus A320neo aircraft. The inaugural flight was in September. In May, one of the first aircraft bearing the new LATAM brand landed in the country carrying the torch for the 2016 Rio Olympic Games.
To promote tourism and the country's economic 
development, a non-stop flight was inaugurated 
between Quito and Baltra (South Seymour) Island in the Galapagos archipelago.  
LATAM Airlines Ecuador was also involved in transporting humanitarian aid after the 
earthquake that hit Ecuador in April.From March 2017 , LATAM Airlines Colombia started operating flights between Cartagena-
San Andrés and Medellin-Santa Marta, driving tourism in the north of the country and decentralizing the company's domestic operations.According to the local civil aviation authority worthy of note was the company's  Incentivizing tourism, LATAM Airlines Chile increased the number of 
seats available on tourist routes by  
To ensure ongoing improvement in the services offered to clients, LATAM Airlines Peru incorporated five Airbus A320s into its fleet. The model enables 
the transportation of a higher number of passengers in greater comfort.Argentina Brazil Chile
Peru Colombia Ecuadorof flights with delays not 
exceeding 15 minutes 
with delays of under  
60 minutes86%
96%punctuality rate17% 
Worthy of note is the direct flight to Puerto 
Natales, in Patagonia, Southern Chile, inaugurated in December.
6The year 2016 was characterized by a low growth 
period for the countries of Latin America and the Caribbean, which had a reduction of regional gross domestic product of the order of 1.1%, according to data from the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC). It should be noted that the region already came from a contrac -
tion of 0.4% in its economy.
South America was the most affected sub-region, 
with an expected decline of 2.5% of GDP in 2016. In the years 2015/2016 Brazil was responsible for the greatest negative impact on economic activity in the region. The country’s GDP fell 3.8% in 2015 – the biggest drop in history – and 3.6% in 2016, es-tablishing the largest wealth loss in Brazil’s history.
Brazil is going through one of the biggest political 
crises in its history, with the consequences of the impeachment of the former President of the Re-public amplified by an anti-corruption action, Lava Jato operation. As a result, the private sector has adopted defensive strategies, postponing invest -
ments, increasing unemployment and reducing stock replenishment in factories, which contributed sharply to the persistence of the recession in 2016.Despite the poor performance of the Brazilian econ-omy, it is important to note that government poli-cies aimed at balancing public finances and struc -
tural reforms were initiated, not only approved by the markets, but have also revised their projections favorably for 2018.
Therefore, we can say that Brazil is emerging from 
a serious turbulence to have a more stable flight, which aims at a GDP growth that although still modest, has a highly positive effect on the econo-my of the whole continent.
One of the creative and renovating actions carried 
out by the group during the year was the design of a new model to reduce the costs of passenger transportation. In it, customers can choose to fly by paying for additional services according to their needs. This initiative will put us in a more competi-tive position with any of our competitors, and may represent a 50% increase in the volume of passen-gers transported in the coming years.MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD  
[102-14] 
Simpler, more efficient 
and more competitive
7In the area of sustainability, whose adherence and 
improvement are necessary conditions for competi-tion in the market, we are rapidly advancing in new practices and the improvement of old ones, in order to maintain a leading position and create the bases for its permanence. A stimulating recognition was our inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the third consecutive year as one of the leading companies in sustainability, based on economic, social and environmental criteria.
Our long-term strategy has not changed. It can be 
mentioned in three cardinal points: a continent, a wide network of destinations and a brand. These three points are interconnected by common premises: be-ing simpler, more efficient and more competitive.
In LATAM, constant attention to reducing costs to 
replace processes and equipment that have be-come costly and unproductive is an essential re-quirement. The restructuring of our fleet allowed a reduction of US$ 2.2 billion of our fleet assets projected for 2018 during the last 12 months. In Brazil, where we are implementing changes due to the intense importance of that market for the com-pany, the reduction of flight capacity reached 12% in 2016, preparing the way for a market recovery.
All the setbacks that emerged in this very complex 
period for the economy of our continent, and in particular for the civil aviation sector, only rein-force my conviction that the union of TAM and LAN could not have been more successful. I am very proud to have participated in the construction of this great group, which represents a milestone in the history of aviation. I think it was the most im-portant experience of my professional and busi-ness life. If not for the creation of LATAM, the wind of the crisis could have shaken the structure of the founding companies and divert them to other non-successful routes.
In LATAM, my story had a new beginning. Starting 
with my friends and partners, the Cueto family, fol-lowed by executives and professionals from differ -
ent areas, from TAM and LAN, or those who later joined us. They were enriching relationships from all angles – business, work and affection. I have learned a lot. I think I collaborated a lot too. I will always collaborate. But for LATAM, renewal is the first word of our informal nature, our conviction as shareholders and managers, the principle that gov-erns the philosophy of the group.
Mauricio Rolim Amaro
Chairman of the Board  
of LATAM Airlines Group
82016 will be remembered as one of the most challeng-
ing years in our company’s history, with us continuing to adapt to the volatile environment of recent years. We initiated big changes and major projects, so we can better deal with the evolving airline industry landscape and the slowdown of Latin American economies.
We seek to consolidate ourselves as the leading air -
lines group in the region, connecting the continent 
with an expansive network under a single brand. Guided by this long-term vision, we are proud to have successfully launched the unified brand LATAM, which combines the best of LAN and TAM and provides the client with a single image.
We have continued to strengthen our network – de-
spite modest growth in the region – with the launch of 14 new routes in 2016 and the announcement of a further eight for this year; a record number for the group. Of these routes, we inaugurated four new des-tinations that improve connectivity both within the region and with the rest of the world: Puerto Natales, Jaén, Washington D.C., and Johannesburg. In doing so, we became the only Latin American airline to offer a direct service between Latin America and Africa.
Furthermore, as part of our commitment to further 
expand our network of flights and connections in South America, we continue to make progress to-wards achieving our ‘Joint Business Agreements’ with IAG (the holding company of British Airways and Ibe-ria) and American Airlines, so we can connect more people in Latin America with the rest of the world. We are convinced that these agreements will strengthen the connectivity of our region and deliver access to a wider destination network, more flights, better con-necting times and lower prices as well as contribute to the development of tourism in the region with the arrival of more travelers from the USA and Europe.
In 2016, we worked on one of the most significant 
changes for the group and our customers in our his-tory with the renewal of the domestic flight model for the six countries in the region where we have na-tional operations. The new model, which is already being gradually implemented in some markets, will give our customers the flexibility to choose how they want to fly, by only paying for the additional services they use. As a result, we will be able to offer fares up to 30% cheaper, allowing more people to choose flight as a means of transport as well as helping those who already fly, to do so more often. 
All of this will be supported by a new digital experi-
ence, where passengers can control their own flight experience using only their phone. In addition to the benefits for passengers, this change will allow us to better compete with the increasing number of low 
MESSAGE FROM THE CEO   
[102-14]
9cost operators in the region. With the new travel 
model, we project to increase our passenger num-bers for domestic flights by 50% by 2020, helping to consolidate flight as a widely-accessible means of transport in the region and boost economic growth in the markets where the company operates.
The last three years have been very challenging. 
However, thanks to the work over this time, we have seen a significant improvement in our profitability, achieving a 6% EBIT margin in 2016 and the first positive net profit in five years. This improvement in profitability in a tough year showcases the resilience of our business model and demonstrates that we are on the right path with the strategic initiatives we have put in place. These positive results, together with the restructuring of our fleet plan and the strengthening of our balance sheet, have also been recognized by the financial markets, as demonstrated by the 53% recovery of the LATAM share in 2016.In 2016, we also made progress in our sustainabil-ity practices, which increasingly cut across the en-tire organization, driving advances in the social and environmental spheres as well as financial and ef -
ficiency gains for the business. During the year, the LATAM Sustainability Policy was approved, ensuring a unified approach to the group's sustainable devel-opment strategies. Simultaneously, we are seeking to strengthen relations with our supply chain, driv-ing best practices among our partners and enhancing monitoring processes among this stakeholder group. 
Progress was also made in key questions for the air -
line sector, such as our ongoing pursuit of efficiency 
in the use of fuel and reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, with concrete results in the indicators for these areas. Fuel economy translated into con-sumption avoidance of 6,050 TJ, the equivalent of 440,300 t CO
2e in emissions. These advances gain 
even greater significance in tandem with the organi-zation's carbon footprint management measures: to-tal emissions decrease by 2.3% and emissions inten-sity by 0.95%.
In the social area, worthy of note are LATAM's philan-
thropic initiatives, which accounted for more than US$ 4.8 million. These include making the LATAM opera-tions available for social and humanitarian aid  – such as providing air tickets and cargo space –, financial contributions to institutions and investment in corpo-rate citizenship programs.
With specific focus on sustainable tourism, we main-
tained the Cuido mi Destino program, which foments social and economic development while preserving the historical, natural and cultural heritage of diverse regions in South America. Since it was created in 2009, the initiative has benefited 26 destinations in 66 in-terventions that mobilized 3,515 students.
These are some examples that demonstrate our 
commitment to generating value in the long term and which undoubtedly contributed to LATAM's in-clusion in the Dow Jones World Sustainability Index for the third year running. Our presence on the in-dex is confirmation that we are on the right path.
In conclusion, I would like to thank our teams for all 
their work this year. Without their commitment and dedication it would have not been possible to carry out these significant changes we are currently im-plementing. I would also like to especially thank our shareholders – both new and long-standing – for their patience during the challenges of recent years, for their support in this period of adjustment and for the faith they have placed in our project. Our challenge and what motivates us is to maintain our industry leadership, strengthen our financial posi-tion and secure our long-term sustainability. For this reason, I invite everyone in the LATAM family to maintain their trust in this project and to continue moving forward together towards these objectives.
Enrique Cueto
CEO, LATAM Airlines GroupLong-term 
focus to generate shared value
10The company
In this chapter
 12 FROM SOUTH AMERICA TO THE WORLD
 15 DIALOGUE AND JOINT CONSTRUCTION
 18  SUPPLY CHAIN
 21 A W ARDS AND RECOGNITION
11The LATAM Airlines Group is the largest airline group in 
Latin America. In 2016, around 67 million passengers flew with the group, which also carried 944,000 met -
ric tons of cargo. The operation covers 135 passenger and 138 cargo destinations (11 of which exclusively for cargo), totaling 139 different destinations.
The group is headquartered in Chile with a work force 
of 45,900 people, comprising more than 60 nationali-ties. It has domestic operations in six countries in South America – Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador and Peru. The international operation includes regional flights within South America and the Caribbean and long-haul services to North America, Europe, Africa and Asia-Pacific. To facilitate access to these different destinations, the group uses a hub model, concentrat -
ing connections in larger airports, such as Guarulhos in São Paulo (Brazil) and Lima (Peru).
In 2016, the group inaugurated 14 new routes – in-
cluding 12 international services such as the new flight between São Paulo and Johannesburg, South Africa’s largest city, making LATAM the only company in Latin America with a direct connection to Africa. In October 2017, the group will also operate a non-stop flight be-tween Santiago (Chile) and Melbourne (Australia), which at 15 hours, will become LATAM’s longest ever flight.The group has a presence worldwide via the oneworld global alliance, which comprises 15 airlines with flights throughout Latin America, North America, Europe, Africa and the Middle East. During the year progress was made towards commercial agreements with American Airlines and International Airlines Group (IAG), the parent company of British Airways and Iberia. These alliances will further strengthen the network of connections open to LATAM clients, providing them with more flights, better connection times and more competitive prices to destinations not operated directly by the group. The agreements have yet to be approved by the relevant authorities.
FROM SOUTH AMERICA TO THE WORLD   
[102-1, 102-2, 102-3, 102-4, 102-6 and 102-7]
67
million passengers 
flew with LATAM in 2016With cargo and passenger services, domestic and international flights and ones 
operated in partnership with other companies, LATAM connects 29 countries 
The best fleet
Committed to always providing its clients with the best possible experience, LATAM has a fleet of 332 aircraft, with an average age of seven years. In 2016, it became the first company in Latin America to take delivery of Airbus’s lat -
est model, the A320neo. For long-haul flights, LATAM also incorporated six more Airbus A350 aircraft into its fleet, totaling seven.
12With the increase in passenger traffic during the 
event in August, the group scheduled an additional 140 flights. During the month, the Rio de Janeiro-São Paulo route operated with an occupancy rate of 81% – compared with 68% in the same period of 2015.
The new visual identity is gradually being applied 
to the fleet and to the operational units. In 2017, the new brand will be applied to the uniforms of all client-facing employees. The visual renovation pro-cess is scheduled to conclude by mid-2019.Airbus A320neoIn 2016, LATAM became the first airline group in the Americas to receive the Airbus A320neo. Worldwide, it was the fourth company to operate this model. The A320neo has advanced technology and the lat -
est generation engines that enable a 15% decrease in fuel consumption and a positive impact on CO
2 
emissions. LATAM Airlines Brasil was the first to incorporate the model with an inaugural flight on September 19 between São Paulo/Guarulhos and Porto Alegre. It is expected that LATAM will be op-erating seven A320neo aircrafts by the end of 2017, increasing to a total of 11 by the end of 2018.The LATAM Airlines Group (formerly LAN Airlines) comprises affiliates in Peru, Argentina, Colombia and Ecuador, as well as LATAM CARGO and its subsidiar -
ies; TAM S.A and its subsidiaries, TAM Linhas Aéreas S.A. (LATAM Airlines Brasil) and its business units TAM Transportes Aéreos Del Mercosur S.A. (LATAM Airlines Paraguay) and Multiplus S.A.
As a publicly traded company, in 2016 Qatar Air -
ways became a shareholder with a 10% stake in 
LATAM, reinforcing its financial sustainability and global presence. The group ended the year with an EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, deprecia-tion and amortization) of US$1.5 billion, a 5.5% in-crease compared with 2015.
New brand makes its debut in 
the 2016 Rio Olympic Games
The 2016 Olympics were the event chosen to show-
case the single LATAM brand, designed to incorpo-rate the best attributes and the cultures of LAN and TAM. As the official airline for the 2016 Rio Olympic Games and the 2016 Rio Paralympic games, the group was responsible for transporting the Olympic torch from Geneva (Switzerland) to Brasilia (Brazil). The aircraft that carried the Olympic flame was one of the first in the fleet with the new branding. After its arrival in the Brazilian capital, the LATAM aircraft flew another 8,000 kilometers, carrying the torch to 13 cities in the north, northeast and midwest re-gions of the country over 15 days.
13Affiliates
LATAM has affiliates 
in six countries in South America, that account for 95% of the region’s air traffic
LATAM IN NUMBERS 2014 2015 2016
Passenger operation
Passengers transported 67 million 67 million 67 million
Destinations 135 137 135
Cargo operation Cargo transported (t) 1 million 1 million 944 thousandsTotal
165
international 
flights (LATAM and codeshare)
 International flights   Cargo only operations   
1 Revenue Passenger Kilometers: number of paying passengers transported multiplied by the distance flown.  2 Available Seat Kilometers: number of seats available multiplied by the distance flown.84 
North America
4 
Africa9 
Asia
22 
Australasia  
(Australia,  New Zealand  and New Guinea)Brazil  
This is the largest domestic market in South America and the third largest in the world. LATAM Airlines Brazil operates in 41 airports, with an average of 580 flights a day.
35%29 million passengers (-9.7%)
- 10.7% RPK
1-11.5% ASK
282.3%Amsterdam (Holland)Basel (Switzerland)Guadalajara and Merida (Mexico) Guatemala City (Guatemala) San Jose (Costa Rica)Panama City (Panama)Kingston (Jamaica)Santo Domingo (Dominican Republic)Valencia (Venezuela)Cabo Frio (Brazil)46  
Europe
INSTANT SNAPSHOTArgentina  
Present in the country for 11 years, LATAM Airlines Argentina is the second largest opera -
tor of domestic flights after state-owned Aerolineas Argentinas, which has 75% of the market. It serves 15 domestic destinations.
25%2.6 million passengers (+ 7%)
+ 7 .2% RPK
1+ 5.5% ASK
277%Colombia  
LATAM Airlines Colombia has operated in Colombia, Latin America's third biggest market, for five years. It covers 14 local destinations and is the second largest airline in the country, after the Colombian company Avianca.
21.1%4.8 million passengers (+ 4.4%)
+ 8.9% RPK
1+ 6.8% ASK
280.3%
Ecuador  
Present in the country since 2009, LATAM Airlines Ecuador operates in five cities.
30.5%1 million passengers (- 8.3%)
- 2.4% RPK
1- 0.7% ASK
279.3%
Peru  
LATAM Airlines Peru has been in  Peru for 17 years. The company is market leader and operates in  17 domestic destinations.
61.4%6.6 million passengers (+ 6.7%)
+ 6.5% RPK
1+ 8% ASK
280.4%Chile  
As the market leader, LATAM oper -
ates 16 destinations from the north to the south of the country.  
73.1%7 .8 million passengers (+ 8.8%)
+ 9.6% RPK
1+ 10% ASK
283%
 Domestic flights     Occupancy rate     Market share     Consolidated traffic      Capacity
14DIALOGUE AND JOINT CONSTRUCTION  
Relations with strategic stakeholders are underpinned by transparency and a 
commitment to enhancing business dynamics and the evolution of the industry
For LATAM, relations with different social actors 
represent an opportunity for joint construction and permanent growth. Systematic integration and engagement with key stakeholders is in ac -
cordance with the global guidelines set forth in the group's Corporate Stakeholder Relationship Policy.
The document sets forth 19 stakeholder groups 
and the priority focuses for engagement, which are reviewed periodically. There are specific re-lationship channels (see below) and engagement plans for each group, under the responsibility of different LATAM areas. 
[102-40, 102-42 and 102-43]
►  Publications (Annual Report and 
Sustainability Report)
►  Satisfaction surveys and improve-ment groups
►  Tender processes
►  Call Center
►  Report channels
►  Web platformEmployees Passenger 
clientsPrimary suppliers Investors Communication media Unions
►  Internal communication
►  Periodic meetings (Breakfast with 
executives and LATAM News)
►  Committees and extended committees
►  Surveys (perception, organizational climate, satisfaction)
►  Performance appraisal
►  Internal standards and regulations►  Newsletter
►  Website, application and social networks
►  Commercial offices and contact centers
►  Service teams
►  Satisfaction surveys
►  Loyalty programsPublic and regulatory 
agencies
► Monthly meetings 
► Specific agendas►  Interviews (individual or press conferences) and disclosure events
►  Press releases
►  Social networks 
►  Fam and press
►  Visits to maintenance base
►  Telephone and email► Website►  Publications (Annual Report and Sustainability Report, specific studies and reports)
►  Form 20F
►  Presentation of quarterly results
►  Conference calls
►  Periodic meetings
►  EmaillEnhancing the sector
The strategic stakeholders mapped by the group include public and regulatory authorities, sector as-sociations and sustainability-oriented initiatives.
LATAM maintains close relations with these bod-
ies to ensure it does business responsibly and in alignment with legal frameworks, developing joint initiatives and influencing best practices. There is emphasis on the group's positioning in the main discussions in the air industry and, in line with its environmental strategy, participation in the main discussion forums on the industry’s environmen-tal impacts, in particular those related to climate change and other emissions. 
[102-12 and 102-13]
►  Publications (Annual Report and 
Sustainability Report)
►  Meetings and working groups
►  Reports 
►  Websites and social networks
►  Press releases
►  Email and telephone contacts
►  Compliance Program19
stakeholder 
groups were mapped
RELATIONSHIP CHANNELS
15In 2016, LATAM’s involvement was focused on:
 −IATA (International Air Transport Association): as 
a member of the association, LATAM prioritizes participation in environmental discussions such as climate change, noise and environmental man-agement. In 2016, the association had a positive influence on the discussions that culminated in the approval of the CORSIA (Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Avia-tion), which establishes reduction and mitigation measures up until 2035. The aviation sector was a pioneer in approving a global level agreement aimed at carbon neutral growth.
 −ALTA (Latin American and Caribbean Air Trans-port Association): LATAM has been playing a leading role in regional discussions on emis-sions reduction and climate change, especially through the Enviromental Group.
 −CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project): The group partici-pates in CDP discussions on climate change, as well as regularly reporting its emissions to the entity.
 −Reforestemos Patagonia: With the intermedia-tion of LATAM Airlines Chile, the group is one of the founders of this initiative to reclaim the Pa-tagonian ecosystem in Chile. 
 −BAM (Bosques Amazónicos): LATAM Airlines Peru offsets the emissions of itsground operations by means of a REDD (Reducing Emissions from De-forestation and forest Degradation) project run by the organization. The partnership has been in place since 2012 and has so far offset more than 24,000 metric tons of CO
2 emissions. −Abraba (Brazilian Alliance for Aviation Biofuels):  
LATAM Brasil is part of this group formed in 2010 with the goal of promoting public and private initiatives aimed at the development, certification and commer -
cial production of sustainable biofuels for aviation.
 −CEBDS (Conselho Empresarial Brasileiro para o Desenvolvimento Sustentável): a non-profit civil association that promotes the sustainable development of companies operating in Brazil in association with government and civil society, in addition to disseminating the most up-to-date concepts and practices in this field.
 −WWF – Brasil Business Network: LATAM Brasil is a member of this group of companies which is committed to ensuring that Brazilian society values and conserves biodiversity and promotes the rational use of natural resources to drive sus-tainable development.
 −FGV-GvCes Brazilian GHG Protocol Program: this is aimed at encouraging a corporate culture engaged in publishing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in-ventories, providing participants with access to world class instruments and quality standards.
 −SAFUG (Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group): SAFUG is focused on accelerating the develop-ment and commercialization of sustainable bio-fuels for the aviation industry. The group is rep-resented by LATAM Airlines Brasil in the initiative.MATERIAL TOPIC 
Government relations, 
fair competition and regulatory specificities
— Permanent dialogue
— Legal compliance—  Development of the  
air industry
2016 HighlightBy means of IATA (International Air Transport Association), LATAM par -
ticipated in the negotiations for the CORSIA agreement, an unprecedent -
ed move to reduce and offset the GHG emissions of airline companies (see page 39)
Engagement plans with priority stake-holder groupsDialogue to drive 
sector growth
16Membership of associations [102-13]
Peru
 −Asociación de Empresas de Transporte Aéreo Internacional (AETAI)
 −Asociación Peruana de Empresas Aéreas (APEA)
 −Cámara Binacional de Comercio Peruano Uruguaya
 −Cámara Binacional Perú-Brasil (CAPEBRAS)
 −Cámara de Comercio Americana del Perú (AMCHAM)
 −Cámara de Comercio Peruano-Chilena
 −Cámara Nacional de Turismo (CANATUR)
 −Sociedad de Comercio Exterior del Perú (COMEXPERU)Argentina
 −Cámara de Comercio Argentino Brasilera
 −Cámara de Compañías aéreas de Argentina (JURCA)
 −Centro de Implementación de Políticas Públicas para la Equidad 
y el Crecimiento (CIPPEC)
 −Consejo Empresario Argentino para el Desarrollo Sustentable (CEADS)
 −Instituto para el Desarrollo Empresarial de la Argentina (IDEA)
 −Pacto Global de las Naciones Unidas
Brazil
 −Associação Brasileira de Agências de Viagens (Abav)
 −Associação Brasileira de Anunciantes (ABA)
 −Aliança Brasileira para Biocombustíveis de Aviação (Abraba)
 −Associação Brasileira de Comunicação Empresarial (Aberje)
 −Associação Brasileira dos Consolidadores de Passagens Aéreas e Serviços de Viagens (AirTKT)
 −Associação Brasileira das Empresas Aéreas (Abear)
 −Associação Brasileira de Franchising (ABF)
 −Associação Brasileira de Logística (Abralog)
 −Associação Brasileira das Operadoras de Turismo (Braztoa)
 −Associação Brasileira de Relações Empresa-Cliente (Abrarec)
 −Associação Latino-Americana de Gestão de Eventos e Viagens Corporativas (Alagev)
 −Câmara Americana de Comércio (Amcham Brasil)
 −Conselho Empresarial Brasileiro para o Desenvolvimento Sustentável (CEBDS)
 −Rede Empresarial WWF
 −Conselho Nacional de Auto-regulamentação Publicitária (Conar)
 −FGV-GvCes – Programa Brasileiro GHG Protocol Brasileiro
 −Flight Safety Foundation (FSF) 
 −Grupo de Estudos Tributários Aplicados (Getap)
 −Instituto Brasileiro de Executivos de Finanças (Ibef)
 −Instituto Brasileiro de Hospitalidade Empresarial (BHE)
 −Interactive Advertising Bureau (IAB Brasil)
 −Junta de Representantes das Companhias Aéreas Internacionais  
do Brasil (Jurcaib)
 −São Paulo Convention Bureau – Fundação 25 de Janeiro
 −Sindicato Nacional das Empresas Aéreas (SNEA)
 −Pacto Global da Organização das Nações Unidas
 −Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group (SAFUG)Colombia
 −Asociación de transporte Aéreo de Colombia (ATAC)
 −Cámara Colombo ChilenaChile
 −Asociación Chilena de Aerolíneas (ACHILA)
 −Acción RSE 
 −Cámara Chileno-Brasileña de Comercio
 −Cámara Chileno Norteamericana de Comercio (Amchan – Chile)
 −Cámara de Comercio Chileno-Argentina
 −Cámara Chileno-Colombiana
 −Cámara de Comercio Chileno- Peruana
 −Cámara de Comercio de Santiago
 −Cámara Oficial Española de Comercio de Chile
 −Corporación de Estudios para Latinoamérica (CIEPLAN)
 −Comunidad Mujer
 −Federación de Empresas de Turismo de Chile (Fedetur)
 −Instituto Chileno de Administración Racional de Empresas (ICARE)
 −Sociedad de Fomento Fabril
Ecuador
 −Asociación de Representantes de Líneas Aéreas del Ecuador (ARLAE)
 −Cámara Ecuatoriana Americana de Comercio
 −Cámara de Industrias y ProducciónAlliances and codesharing  [206-1]
In 2016, an agreement was reached between LATAM 
and the Chilean tax authority (Fiscalía Nacional Económica) related to detailing the company's obli-gations under codeshare agreements. The agreement was approved by the Chilean antitrust authority TDLC (Tribunal de Defensa de la Libre Competencia), annulling the fine requested by the FNE.
LATAM may maintain its codeshares with Asian airlines 
in diverse alliances. A small minority of alliances on other continents were affected. Two codeshares with Aeroméxico, which were under review, were excluded. One codeshare with Turkish Airlines, which was never actually implemented, and a number of operated with Lufthansa were also excluded. LATAM will be able to request these codeshares again at a later date.
It should be noted that the agreement does not 
constitute recognition on the part of LATAM that it committed any illegal anti-competitive act, in-fraction or violation of conditions imposed by the TDLC related to the merger between LAN and TAM.
17To shape and guide relations with suppliers – an-
other key LATAM stakeholder group –, the group developed its Procurement and Supply Chain poli-cy. The document is based on the contents of other internal standards such as the Code of Conduct and Anti-Corruption policy, as well as taking into ac -
count regulatory requirements in the countries in which the group operates. The new policy standard-izes the financial, social and environmental crite-ria adopted in contracting and monitoring partners at all group units, establishing common guidelines for managing risks in the value chain and ensuring transparency and ethical conduct in negotiations.
To sign a contract with LATAM, the supplier must 
adhere to the group’s Code of Conduct, which in-cludes directives on ethics, anti-corruption, occu-pational health and safety, social and environmen-tal responsibility and human rights, in particular the guarantee of proper working conditions and non-use of slave and child labor. The Code of Conduct is available online for all stakeholders.  
https://goo.gl/foPg9i
Contracts also contain environmental clauses re-
quiring that suppliers be compliant with all per -tinent legal environmental provisions, assume responsibility for any breaches and sanctions and inform LATAM of any environmental damage caused, among other points. It should be noted that the environmental question is a selection criterion, with priority given to suppliers who manage the greenhouse gas emissions, energy and water con-sumption and waste disposal related to their activi-ties efficiently. 
[+ Attachment]
During the year, no supplier contracts were termi-nated in function of the identification of social and environmental impacts.—  Ethical relations based on transparency and trust
—  Compliance with standards and legislation and encouragement of best practices
—  Sustainability and risk management parameters (mapping and monitoring)
2016 Highlight—  Corporate Procurement Policy: standardization, transparency and sustainability criteria
—  Risk management and monitoring: cross checking data on all suppliers via international systems for con-trolling corruption, child and slave labor, financing of drug traffic etc.Suppliers work in 
alignment with the LATAM Code of ConductMATERIAL TOPIC 
Value chainSUPPLY CHAIN  
[308-2 and 414-2]
A focus on compliance, best practices and proactive risk 
management strengthens relations and underpins joint growth
18Cross-checking data
In June, LATAM started using a system that cross checks information on its suppliers with international data bases, enabling the identi-fication of supplier involvement in schemes of corruption, financing terrorism and drug traffic, and the exploitation of child and slave labor in the supply chain. The information on potential new business partners is assessed before any contract is validated. The process of cross checking supplier data is repeated on a monthly basis. For providers who deal with government authorities on behalf of LATAM or who have higher value contracts, a more in-depth analysis is undertaken.
The measures to be adopted when any ir -
regularity is identified have already been 
established in conjunction with the Compli-ance area. These guidelines have been in-corporated into the Procurement and Sup-ply Chain policy.
In 2016, 14,204 supplier assessments were 
carried out. In 600 cases, these were specific assessments conducted based on alerts gen-erated by the system; no cases of non-com-pliance were identified.Risk management and monitoringThe LATAM risk matrix monitors the most signifi-cant risks and impacts in each supplier category, examples being risks related to compliance with la-bor, tax, industry and sanitary laws and standards, the financial health and ethical conduct of the com-pany, respect for human rights and the adoption of best environmental and social practices. Preventive risk identification processes encompass all catego-ries of product and service providers.
For suppliers considered critical, the group also carries 
out periodic audits to ensure compliance with corporate ethical, sustainability and legal compliance parameters. Third-party suppliers and sub-contractors are also au-dited for labor compliance. Suppliers of components that are essential for the operation and difficult to re-place, as well as those with annual contracts in excess of US$ 1 million, are classified as critical. These include suppliers of fuel, aircraft parts, airport equipment, back up and passenger tracking systems. This segment ac -
counts for 11% of the total supplier base, but repre-sents up to 72% of the purchase volume.
In 2016, LATAM conducted 42 audits aimed specifically 
at financial matters. No irregularities were found, but in two cases deemed to be higher risk the company opted not to renew its contracts.
Technical partners' performance is appraised on a 
monthly basis, with suppliers classified in three cate-gories: red, yellow and green. The red and yellow classi-fications generate action plans, with defined improve-ment targets and deadlines.
RED
YELLOW
GREEN  −Request for urgent top executive visit with action plan
 −Reduction in business, with exclusion from any future bids
 −Excluded from operational quotations
 −Quarterly review visit for action plans
 −Low evaluation on Airbus survey if applicableCategories
3 months to go Yellow
6 months to go Green −Marked as a less competitive supplier on any bid
 −Executive visit with action plan
 −Low evaluation on Airbus survey if applicable
 −Two-month basic visit from customer support
 −Public recognition (1 year in this category)
 −LATAM vice-president letter to senior management
 −Top supplier for any future business
14,204 
assessments using 
international data bases
19Supplier base
Currently, the LATAM supplier base comprises 30,628 partners broken down into different cat -
egories within two major groups: technical and non-technical purchases. The technical purchases encompass fuel suppliers; engineering services; consumables and rotables; PMA (part manufac -
turer approval); wheels, brakes, tires and avionics; in-flight entertainment; seats, materials and trim; sales; larger components (landing gear and oth-ers); pool (repair, exchange and rental of certain components made available via a pool system) and non-pool purchases (tools and other types of components). Non-technical purchases com-prise categories indirectly related to the LATAM operation: administration; airports; infrastructure; catering; hotels and uniforms; marketing; pro-fessional services; technology and systems; and transportation. 
[102-9]
SUPPL Y CHAIN – TOTAL PURCHASES
(%)
Total: 
30,628
suppliers39
13528
15Fuel
Infrastructure   Technology 
and systems        
               Other technical 
purchasesOthers                 SUPPL Y CHAIN 2016
LATAM supplier base (21 categories) 30,628
Critical suppliers1
Percentage of supplier base 11%
Percentage of LATAM purchase volume 72%
Identification of potential risks
% of categories undergoing sustainability risk 
assessment100%
% of suppliers screened for sustainability criteria100%
Monitoring and management of compliance
Preventive assessments conducted (interna-
tional data base system)14,204
In-depth assessments (based on system-generated alerts)614
Contracts terminated for non-compliance 0
 
1 Includes companies with contracts in excess of US$ 1 million, that 
deal with government authorities on behalf of LATAM or that supply the 
operation with components that are essential or difficult to replace.INSTANT SNAPSHOT
SUPPL Y CHAIN – GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION1
Continent Total %
America 29,097 95.0
Asia 120 0.4%
Europa 1,200 3.9
Oceania 211 0.7
1 Based on location of headquarters.
20AWARDS AND RECOGNITION  
Service quality and variety, sustainability and organizational 
reputation were some of the LATAM attributes that received recognition in 2016. Highlights include:
World Line Airline Awards – Skytrax 
2016, the most important award in the air industry
 −LAN: 1
st place in the Best Company in 
South America category
 −TAM: 4th place in the Best Company 
in South America category
 −LAN: 2nd place in the Best Service in 
South America category 
 −TAM: 4th place in the Best Service in 
South America category
Global Traveler’s 2016 - Tested Reader Survey awards
 −1
st place in the Best Airline Company 
in South America category for the 3rd 
year runningDow Jones Sustainability Index
 −Listed for the third consecutive year in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index, which includes only two airline companies worldwide
Alas20 Award – Sustainable leaders
 −1
st place in the Leader in Sustainability 
category
 −2nd place in the Leader in Investor Relations 
category
Socially Responsible Company  – Peru 2021
 −Award of Socially Responsible Company seal for its culture of sustainable and re-sponsible competitiveness
Capital magazine – Chile 
 −2
nd place in the Corporate Sustainability 
Index (ISC)
2016 Corporate Transparency Report – Busi-ness Intelligence (IdN) – Chile 
 −1
st place in the category Most Transparent 
Service Sector Company – Publicly Traded Companies
 −3
rd place in the category 2016 Best Prac -
tices – Publicly Traded CompaniesMost Admired Companies in 2016  Peru (EMA 2016) – Management Guide and PwC
 −Outstanding commercial strategy
Merco Companies and Merco Leaders – Chile (7
th edition)
 −2nd place in Best Corporate Reputa-
tion category
IF Design Awards – World Design Guide, the most important interna-tional design award
 −LATAM and Interbrand: 1
st place in 
New Brand Identity category for the creation of the new LATAM brand
eCommerce Awards 2015, the most important e-commerce award
 −LAN Chile: e-commerce leader in the tourist industry
 −LAN Peru: e-commerce leader in the tourist industry
 −LAN Ecuador: e-commerce leader in the tourist industry2016 Folha Top of Mind  – Brazil
 −TAM: brand with highest recall in the Airline Company category for the 8
th 
year running
Hall of Fame Grupo Valora – Chile 
 −Recognition as a major Chilean brand because of its prominence overseasServices Sustainability Other awards
21Governance
In this chapter
 23 CONSTANT IMPROVEMENT
 27 EVOL VING RISK MANAGEMENT
 29 MANAGING FOR SUSTAINABILITY
22CONSTANT IMPROVEMENT 
New corporate policies and wide-reaching internal engagement initiatives reinforce 
ethical conduct and commitment to legal compliance in day to day operations
In its day to day business, LATAM is guided by the 
principles of ethics and transparency. Using best practices as a reference, the group constantly strives to enhance the internal instruments, pro-cesses and structures that ensure legal compliance and alignment with LATAM values.
The internal compliance and accountability policies are 
aligned with the laws applicable to companies whose shares are traded on the stock exchanges of New York and Santiago de Chile. In the diverse countries in which LATAM Airlines Group operates, the local head of the Legal area provides support to the Senior Vice Presi-dent, who has overall responsibility for legal questions.
In 2016, the group’s self-regulatory framework was 
reinforced by four new corporate policies (see next page). In parallel, there was a company-wide effort to drive the active engagement of all company areas in training and communication initiatives related to the policies and standards that guide employee con-duct and relations with other stakeholders. By April 2017, around 200 staff should be trained to act as "compliance ambassadors" at all company units. This exercise involved the direct participation of 14 areas: Airports, Public Affairs, Audit, Supplier Management, Infrastructure, Legal, LATAM Travel, Marketing, Cargo Operations, Operations and Maintenance, Personnel, Network and Fleet, Treasury and Sales.Ethics, compliance, anti-corruption, antitrust and other related matters are integrated into the com-pany's training programming from the induction of new employees to the periodic reviews required as part of the performance appraisal process. 
The different training programs are planned in two-
year cycles, depending on the area of activity. In the most recent cycle, from 2014 to 2016, 44,000 people were trained. These included almost 1,800 leaders and senior managers and 1,300 professionals from areas in which risk is considered to be more accentuated.
Consolidated coverage in 2015 and 2016 encom-
passed 99.9% of the designated staff, with a 99.9% approval rate. Specific compliance-related email communications were sent to 92% of the total work force. To ensure external audiences are aligned with the company's standards and procedures, all business partners must sign a Term of Commitment to comply with the Code when they are contracted.  
[205-2]
Employees are submitted to 
mandatory periodic training in ethics and compliance200
“compliance 
ambassadors”  in training
23Confidential channel
The company's Ethics Channel website receives reports 
of breaches of laws and internal standards of profes -
sional and personal conduct, covering compliance with the LATAM Code of Ethics, labor issues, all forms of ha -
rassment or discrimination, fraud, corruption or bribery.
The channel is managed by a third-party provider to ensure independence, integrity and objectivity in analyzing and responding to reports. All reports are examined and investigated by committees in each country. In the event that an irregularity is confirmed, the Code of Conduct Management Committee in each location, comprising the Personnel, Compliance, Legal and other areas, decides on the measures to be taken.
These processes are certified externally.CORPORATE STANDARDS [102-16]
A series of internal policies applicable to all the 
business units orientates employee and senior management conduct and alignment with best practice in ethics and transparency. The main policies are:
–  Code of Conduct
–  Management Committee Code of Conduct
–  Policy on executives’ Roles and Responsibilities
–  Anti-corruption Compliance policy 
–  Scale-Up policy
–  Special Services for Civil Servants Policy
–  Procurement Policy
1
–  Policy on Presents, Hospitality and Entertain-
ment for government representatives and third-parties
–  Safety, Quality and Environment Policy
1 (see 
page 87)
–  Donations Policy1 (see page 70)
–  Sustainability Policy1 (see page 29)Voluntary agreement [419-1]
In 2016, LATAM consented to the entry of a cease-and-desist order by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) related to payments made by LATAM Airlines Group S.A. (formerly LAN Airlines S.A.) to a consultant who assisted in the resolution of labor issues in Argentina in 2006-2007 . The investigation of this case by  the SEC and by the United States De-partment of Justice (DOJ) was initiated in 2011 with LATAM's active cooperation. The company agreed to pay a US$75,000 penalty to the SEC, in accordance with the company's compliance structure and inter -
nal accounting controls and to ensure observance of SEC book and records requirements. In July 2016, af -
ter multiple and prolonged exchanges of opinions and discussions with the DOJ and the SEC, LATAM reached definitive agreements with both authorities.
In the case of the DOJ, the agreement took the form 
of a Deferred Prosecution Agreement (DPA), pursuant to which the DOJ will dismiss the charges after the ex -
piration of a three-year period if LATAM complies with all terms of the DPA. As part of the agreement, LATAM has admitted that the accounting for the payments made to the consultant in Argentina was incorrect and that at the time these payments were made (2006-2007) the company lacked adequate internal controls.
LATAM has also accepted monitoring by an inde-
pendent consultant for the period of 27 months. The consultant's function will be to evaluate, and report to the DOJ on the effectiveness of LATAM’s compliance program. Similarly, LATAM committed to reporting to the DOJ on the effectiveness of the 
1 These were the four new policies approved in 2016. 4
new internal 
policies reinforce self-regulation
24aforementioned compliance program for 9 months 
after the work of the independent consultant has finished. Lastly, LATAM agreed to pay a fine of US$12,750,000 to the DOJ.
The settlement with the SEC included the issuance 
by the SEC of a cease-and-desist order, which is an administrative order closing the investigation upon LATAM's acceptance of certain obligations and state-ments of fact. The order also refers to the obligations related to the monitoring arrangement agreed upon under the Department of Justice's Deferred Prosecu-tion Agreement. LATAM agreed to pay the amount of US$6,700,000 plus interest to the SEC. As of De-cember 31, 2016, a balance of US$ 4,718,894 was payable to the SEC.The group’s main corporate governance body is the Board of Directors, which has nine members elected for a two-year term. The Board is responsible for es-tablishing the group’s strategic directives and is bound by the legislation for publicly traded corporations and the respective standards of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In the decision mak-ing process it is supported by the Board of Directors’ Committee. The governance structure also includes specific committees: Strategy; Finance; Leadership; and Brands, Products and Loyalty Programs.
At the executive level, the CEO, corporate vice pres-
idents and senior executives of the diverse busi-ness areas are charged with executing the strategic directives in alignment with regulatory standards and the standards of ethics and transparency es-tablished by the Board.
The Board of 
Directors is the highest governance bodyDecision making structure [102-18]
Internal AuditCEO LATAM
Human 
ResourcesCorporate 
AffairsSafetyTechnologyPlanningLegal
LATAM Airlines 
Brazil
LATAM Airlines 
Ecuador
LATAM Airlines 
PeruLATAM Airlines 
Argentina
LATAM Airlines 
Chile
LATAM Airlines 
ColombiaDirectors’ 
CommitteeVice president 
Clients
Vice president 
Operations and 
Fleet
Vice president 
Commercial
Vice president 
FinanceBoard of 
Directors
25Market relations
The Investor Relations areas is responsible for re-lations with LATAM shareholders and other capital market agents, adopting a transparent communica-tion policy employing specific channels.
The website www.latamairlinesgroup.net provides 
financial and governance information on the group in English, Spanish and Portuguese. The group makes its results available to the market on a quarterly ba-sis by means of reports and teleconferences.
28.3
17. 413.1
10
10
5.95.5Cueto Group
AFP (Chilean 
Pension Fund Managers)   ADR (American Depositary Receipts)Overseas investors
Amaro Group  
Bethia Group               Qatar 
Airways2
                  Ebien GroupOthers                 OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE1 (%) 
[102-5 and 102-10]
1 Information referring to December 31st, 2016.
2 Corresponding to 9.99% of all the shares issued.Total: 
606,407 ,693 subscribed and paid sharesLATAM Airlines Group is a 
publicly traded company with shares on the Santiago Stock Exchange, the Bolsa Electrónica de Chile, the Valparaíso Stock Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE).
54.7
26The company's risk maturity has evolved year on year, 
and social and environmental risk is no exception. Analysis has been refined, for example, distinguishing emissions that affect climate change from ones im -
pacting local communities, permitting greater under -
standing  of consequences and effects on society. This enables a more effective, in-depth accompaniment of each risk and its potential impacts. For 2017, there will be greater focus on reputation and image risks, with the development of a standardized methodol -
ogy across the company that will permit any eventual risks to be visualized in a more tangible manner.Risk management is a deemed to be a key enabler for the company to accomplish its strategic goals. It is supported by a framework of processes in continuous evolution. After the preparation of the strategic risk matrix in 2015 conducted by the Risk area, which mapped the group’s risks based on the probability of occurrences and potential financial and reputational liabilities, LATAM Corporate Risk Policy was approved by the Board and published at the beginning of 2016. The document formalizes the question of risk internally, reinforcing the moni-toring systems and allocates roles and responsibili-ties in the organization.
Risk mapping indicates cross-cutting risks that af -
fect more than one business category and those 
considered to be emerging risks. Examples of emerging risks are more restrictive legislation that could be passed on greenhouse gas emissions, af -
fecting the group’s economic results adversely in the medium term, and the propagation of infectious diseases which, in extreme cases, could impact de-mand for services. To minimize these, LATAM main-tains a permanent dialogue with the competent au-thorities and in the event of epidemics, conducts awareness and preventive campaigns. This kind of incident is also covered in the group’s emergency response plan.The structure for identifying and mitigating risks cuts 
across the entire operation, considering different aspects of the business and the specificities of each operating unit
EVOL VING RISK MANAGEMENT 
All units follow the same 
corporate policy
27From global to local
The logic implanted in the corporate sphere to manage cross-cutting strategic risks was ex -
tended to all the local operations in 2016, ensur -
ing standardization of risk identification, moni-toring and reporting systems. 
In relevant countries the group operates, the fi-
nancial area is responsible for the local imple-mentation of the LATAM risk management sys-tem, identifying specific risks in the unit and updating them periodically based on the meth-odology used throughout the company. The risks are reported to the head of the responsible unit and to the Risk area, which meets regularly with each unit. 
The degree to which the risk management sys-
tem has been implanted varies from country to country, with consolidation scheduled to take place during the course of 2017 .Permanent monitoringThe strategic cross-cutting and emerging risks are monitored by the Risk Management Team. The Board of Directors' Committee validates the risk management model deployed in the company. In its monthly meetings, the committee undertakes a more detailed analysis of each risk depending on the agenda, following an annual program that is ad-justed in accordance with events and trends.
Also engaged in managing risk is the Risk Desk, com-
manded by the Risk area with support from profes-sionals from different areas (Sales, Safety, Environ-ment, Legal, Compliance, Strategic Planning, Finance, Corporate Affairs and Internal Audit), driving a more integrated overall vision of risk and helping to identify synergies. These meetings occur every two months. 
On a regular basis the risks monitored and any re-
sulting action plans are reported to the group's In-ternal Audit area, which incorporates the relevant information into its monitoring program.
New advances 
are plannedAll the countries jointly 
drive enhanced mitigation
28A corporate policy, approved by the highest governance 
body, establishes the directives for putting the group's vision of sustainable development into practiceMANAGING FOR SUSTAINABILITY 
LATAM’s commitment to generating shared value 
for shareholders, the market, employees, clients, suppliers and society as a whole is incorporated into company strategy and informs decision mak-ing. Advances in sustainability, which cut across all business practices, constitute a key driver in the organization’s aspiration to be one of the three big-gest airline groups in the world.
In 2016, practices that were already a reality in the 
day to day operations of the group became corpo-rate policy with the approval of LATAM’s Sustain-ability Policy. The document was validated by the Board of Directors, the highest body in the gover -
nance structure, setting forth the main directives and principles to be followed by executives in the development of sustainable development strate-gies and initiatives for the entire group.The policy took into account a series of internation -
al references and commitments which will guide the organization’s activities (see page 31), making the correlation between managing the diverse as -
pects of sustainability and running the business explicit. The clearest example is risk management: the matrix for mitigating risks includes a series of sustainability-related topics such as the environ -
ment, labor relations, stakeholder relations and reputation, ensuring integrated management in conjunction with other types of risk, such as finan -
cial and operational ones.
Based on a long-term perspective, the company’s sus-tainability strategy is organized in three dimensions:
 −Governance for sustainability: the company adopts a clear, transparent positioning in relation to its commitments and targets, and the decision making, execution and results monitoring struc -
tures support the implementation of strategy;
 −Climate change: to drive a balanced vision of risk mitigation and the pursuit of new opportunities in managing the business’s actual and potential environmental risks, underscoring eco-efficiency and the reduction of LATAM’s carbon footprint;
 −Corporate citizenship: to make LATAM and the relationship network in its value chain – 
3
dimensions 
underpin management for sustainability
29encompassing suppliers, employees, clients and 
society – catalysts in driving social and economic development and environmental balance in the region by means of developing employees, fo-menting tourism, promoting best practices and private social investment.
These dimensions encompass the company’s main development objectives and are broken down into goals and targets, helping to systematize the con-tinuous improvement process and to quantify the results achieved. The group's performance on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) is the main tool for measuring this development.
The DJSI is the key global gauge for measuring the 
economic, social and environmental components of long-term value generation. Selection is based on Best in Class methodology, which analyzes the economic, social and environmental performance of large publicly traded companies in different indus-tries. Only leading companies enter the list, which is disclosed on an annual basis. The selection process for the DJSI listing is conducted by RobecoSAM, an investment consultancy specialized in sustainability.
LATAM has been listed since 2012, when it was se-
lected for the Emerging Markets segment. Since 2014, it has been listed on the World index, which comprises the top 10% of the entire ranking. In 2016, the 2,500 largest companies (according to the S&P Broad Market Index) from 28 countries were analyzed and 316 were selected. There are only two airline companies in this group.Alignment and informationTo ensure the alignment of information and the stra-tegic vision of senior management regarding goals and targets and monitoring progress, the Board of Directors will track data on an annual basis. This new strategic validation stage complements the oversight already conducted periodically by the Board Committee.
Furthermore, whenever senior management incorpo-
rates a new member, this individual undergoes an im-mersion in business strategy, which includes a module focused specifically on managing for sustainability.ECONOMIC DIMENSION
(%)SOCIAL DIMENSION
(%)87
7886
8274
6480
71
2015 2015 2016 2016
85ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION
(%)TOTAL
(%)90
859076
7284
79
2015 2015 2016 2016
 LATAM performance
 Best in sectorThe Dow Jones 
Sustainability Index is a reference for continuous improvement
30To drive improvements in managing for sustainabil -
ity, LATAM is guided by a series of standards, refer -
ences and commitments of international importance.
The main ones are described here:
 −ISO 26000 standard: the first international Cor -
porate Social Responsibility standard
 −Global Compact: a United Nations Organization 
initiative to encourage the adoption of corporate responsibility practices in the areas of human rights, human rights at work, the environment and anti-corruption.
 −Sustainable Development Goals: a global de-velopment agenda promoted by the UN, which defines goals and targets for the eradication of poverty, food security, health, education, gender equality, reduction of inequality, energy, water, sanitation, sustainable production standards, protection and sustainable use of ecosystems and inclusive economic growth, among others.
 −Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights: a guide prepared by the special representative of the United Nations General Secretariat, John Rug -
gie. which sets forth parameters and guidelines to protect, respect and remedy human rights in the business world.  −Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Multinational Companies and Social Policy: this was drafted by the International Labor Organiza-tion (ILO) aimed at promoting the active partici-pation of multinational companies in driving eco-nomic and social progress, while simultaneously minimizing the negative effects of their activities.
 −The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development’s (OECD) Guidelines for Multina-tional  Companies: this provides a series of rec -
ommendations for companies and governments with principles and voluntary standards to ensure business conduct adherent to the law and best international practices.
 −GRI Methodology: the main reference in report -
ing sustainability. This was drafted by the Global Reporting Initiative, an international multistake-holder organization that seeks to drive standard-ization and ongoing improvement in managing and communicating sustainability in companies and organizations of different sizes and in differ -
ent sectors worldwide.The LATAM Sustainability 
Policy takes international parameters into accountInternational references
Standards and 
best practices guide conduct
31Focus on what is most relevant
To ensure focus for its performance improvement efforts, LATAM employs a structured process for defining the most relevant sustainability-related topics, taking into account the operation’s actual or potential impacts on its diverse stakeholder groups, the expectations of these groups, the company’s future vision, the commitments it has assumed, in-dustry and international sustainability drivers and global trends (further information on page 7 4).
There follows a list of the organization’s material topics:
 −Mitigating climate change: continually reduce emissions intensity and research new energy technologies;
 −Eco-efficient management: to achieve levels of excellence in the rational use of fuel;
 −Reducing noise and other emissions: control aircraft noise emissions in communities close to airports and the impacts of emissions on air quality;
 −Client connectivity and relations: invest in service quality, in transparent, ethical communications and in meeting clients’ new demands. Pay atten-tion to opportunities and technological trends and client demands, investing in service quality and in transparent, ethical communication;
 −Health and safety in the air and on the ground: manage potential risks, including cyber risks, and ensure the highest safety standards for clients, employees and the community; −Managing talent and productivity: enhance perfor -
mance and career management in the different busi -
ness units, with a view to driving professional growth 
and to maintaining a high performance culture;
 −Government relations, healthy competition and specific regulatory matters: maintain permanent 
dialogue with governments, local authorities and industry associations, focused on compliance and the creation of responsible business solutions;
 −Value chain: promote best ethical, sustainability and eco-efficiency practices among suppliers and drive the development of the communities with which the group relates;
 −Economic-financial sustainability: strive for syner -
gy in cost and asset management, planning current and future investments focused on driving value for the group and for its providers of capital.
Each material topic has one or more indicators (see page 89) through which the company monitors its progress against goals and targets. All are directly or indirectly related to the macro objectives of the business and are backed by defined strategies and 
people responsible 
for their execution.9
material topicsActions are 
concentrated on
32Strategy
In this chapter
 34 ANTICIPATING TRENDS
 36 FINANCIAL AND OPERATING RESUL TS
33New value proposition transforms the LATAM client 
experience and bolsters the group to face airline industry challenges ANTICIPATING TRENDS 
Being attentive to the evolution of the market and 
society and acting rapidly with flexibility to adjust to changes are indispensable for guaranteeing a busi-ness’s future and generating value for sharehold-ers, the market, employees, clients, suppliers and society as a whole. This concern drives the LATAM Airlines Group’s strategic planning and in 2016 led to an intense transformation with the potential to modify the way in which the group manages its business, as well as its relations with clients.Known as Change to One, the process is aimed at en-hancing the intensity, depth and speed of the chang-es underpinned by the group’s strategic pillars (see next page), making LATAM a leaner, more agile and more competitive company. The idea is to lay the groundwork that will enable LATAM to maintain and strengthen its leading role in the airline industry in Latin America and worldwide. 
Around 1,300 initiatives are being implanted, involving 
more than one thousand employees. These have been organized in 18 lines of work, each divided into five development stages programmed to run until Decem-ber 2018. It is expected that 80% of these initiatives will be implanted in 2017, generating concrete results mainly in terms of reducing costs, boosting revenues and adapting to the new market reality. 
One of the most visible facets of Change to One is the 
new value proposition for short-haul flights, which takes into account the current reality of the airline market, the different profiles and expectations of clients and the way they relate to the airline com-panies in an ever more digital world. Moreover, the macroeconomic context in the region has changed. After a period of growth, Latin America has been experiencing stagnation and economic recession in recent years. This has resulted in greater efforts on the part of the airlines to become more efficient and competitive and to seek out new markets or niches.1,300
initiatives to leverage 
the transformation
Towards  
the future
34Within this context, the LATAM Airlines Group has 
designed a new model for its domestic flights in the six countries in which the affiliated airlines of the group operate, which represent approximately 40% of the group's sales and 80% of the passengers transported annually. The goal is to provide a more flexible offering for these flights by breaking down the components of the price that are currently com-mercialized in closed “packages”: the actual flight, the possibility of choosing specific seats, dispatch-ing baggage, and in-flight meals.
On shorter flights of up to three and a half hours, 
the prices of these components will be presented separately in a transparent manner so that clients can adjust their fare based on the services they ac -
tually use. In-flight meals will be acquired during the flight based on an extensive menu implement -
ed with the new service “Mercado LATAM” . It is ex -
pected that the minimum fare will decrease by be-tween 10% and 20% compared with current prices, enabling the company to attract even more clients.
The gradual implantation of the new model began with 
LATAM Airlines Colombia in February 2017 . All other affiliates are scheduled to be adapted by July, after which the model will be extended to short flights within Latin America.“Mercado LATAM” , the new on board 
beverage and food purchase service is being implemented in LATAM Airlines Group and its affiliates domestic flights. The objective is to improve the travel experience for passengers, who have access to a broad gastronomic selection of more than 50 products designed to suit all tastes.STRATEGIC PILLARS
LATAM’s development strategy is underpinned by five pillars. Here are some of the main mea-sures undertaken in each of them in 2016.
 −Destination network: inauguration of 14 new routes; consolidation of hubs in key airports in the region.
 −Leading brand and client experience: launch of the LATAM brand; expansion of actions in the Twist project to drive a cultural transformation in client service with a positive impact on sat -
isfaction; definition of the new domestic flight business model based on a new value propo-sition enabling clients to acquire the services they want on each trip.
 −Costs: pursuit of synergy and efficiency in pro-cesses; financial management and review of fleet plan; identification of new revenue op-portunities. 
 −Organizational strength: reinforcement of the company’s single culture; engaging employees in the main strategic initiatives; managing or -
ganizational climate.
 −Risk management: integrated approach; approval of corporate risk management policy; systematization of manage-ment of emerging and strategic risks in the local operations.
35FINANCIAL AND OPERATING RESUL TS 
A proactive stance and assertive handling of the manageable aspects 
of the adverse economic conjuncture ensure positive results, with a net income of US$ 69.2 million and a reduction in financial leverage
LATAM ended 2016 with positive results: operating 
result reached US$ 567 .9 million, 10.5% up on 2015, and the operating margin was 6.0%, 0.9 p.p. high-er than the previous year and in line with the upper limit of the company’s guidance. Net income was US$ 69.2 million, the first positive annual result since 2011. 
[+ Attachment]
The strategy of rationalizing passenger capacity on domestic and international routes in the Brazilian market proved to be effective and in the two opera-tions boosted the relative revenue indicator (mea-sured by available seat kilometers or ASK).
Throughout the year, LATAM also progressed in its 
plan to reduce total assets and fleet commitments. The commitments for 2017 and 2018 are the lowest ever in the company’s recent history and ensure a US$ 2.2 billion reduction in fleet assets for 2016-2018, in line with planning.
The indebtedness indicator also improved during the 
year and the company’s level of financial leverage (net debt to EBITDAR ratio) decreased from 5.8 in 2015 to 5.3 in 2016. Liquidity reached US$ 1.8 billion (including a US$325 million revolving credit facility fully available as of December 2016), reinforced by MATERIAL TOPIC 
Economic-financial sustainability
—  Value generation for the group and its financiers
—  Seek synergies in cost and asset management
2016 highlight—  Adjustments in cargo and passenger capacity
—  Review of fleet plan: US$ 2.2 billion reduction in projected expenditure to 2018
— Cost rationalization
—  Change to one
—  New domestic model, with 
potential to boost passenger volume by 50% in the  coming yearsUS$ 69.2  millionNet income
0.537 .87               Passenger
Cargo                      Others              REVENUE 2016
(US$ billion)
1.11Total: 
US$ 9.52  billionthe capital increase of US$ 608.4 million concluded on December 28
th 2016 with Qatar Airways’ acquisi-
tion of 10% of LATAM’s total stock.
36INSTANT SNAPSHOT
MAIN INDICATORS 2015 2016 ∆%
Financial (US$ thousands)
Operating revenues 10,125,826 9,527,088 -5.9%
Operating expenses (9,611,907) (8,959,185) -6.8%
Operating result 513,919 567,903 10.5%
Net income (219,274) 69,220 131.6%
Net margin (-2.2%) 0.7% 2.9 p.p1.
EBITDA21,448,325 1,528,231 5.5%
EBITDA margin214.3% 16.0% 1.7 p.p.1
Cash and cash equivalents/revenue 13.4% 15.6% 2.2 p.p1
Financial leverage35.8 X 5.3 X -
OperationalPassengers (ASK)
4 – million 134,167 134,968 0.6%
Passengers (RPK)5 – million 111,510 113,627 1.9%
Occupancy rate (based on ASK4) 83.1% 84.2% 1.1 p.p.1
Revenue per ASK4 (cents of US$) 6.3 5.8 -6.9%
Cargo (ATK5) – million 7,0 83 6,704 -5.3%
Cargo (RTK6) – million 3,797 3,466 -8.7%
Occupancy rate (based on ATK5) 53.6% 51.7% -1.9p.p.1
Revenue per ATK5 (cents of US$) 18.8 16.6 -11.7%
1 P.p.: percentage point.
2 EBITDA: Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.3
 Leverage: adjusted net debt /adjusted EBITDA.
4 ASK (Available seat kilometers): measurement of passenger transportation capacity.
5 ATK (Available ton-kilometers): measurement of cargo capacity.6 RTK (Revenue ton-kilometers): revenue generated in metric tons per kilometer.
37Environment
In this chapter
 39 ADDRESSING CLIMATE CHANGE
 43 GROWING ECO-EFFICIENCY
 46 POLICIES AND SYSTEMS
38Climate change issues are particularly important in 
LATAM’s management for sustainability. This is be-cause while airline operations represent 2% of the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions caused by human activity
1, they constitute the sector’s main environ-
mental impact. The company is committed to this question and has a structured continuous perfor -
mance improvement strategy in place, comprising reduction and offsetting measures. The strategy also takes into account operational risks arising from extreme climatic events, as well as those re-lated to costs stemming from alterations in regula-tory frameworks governing emissions.
 [201-2]
Through its participation in the Air International Transport Association (IATA), LATAM was closely in-volved in the CORSIA (Carbon Offsetting and Re-duction Scheme for International Aviation) negotia-tions to limit CO
2 emissions. The document, which 
was signed by the 191 member-states of the In-ternational Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) at a meeting held in 2016 in Montreal, Canada, made the aviation industry the first to assume a public commitment on this scale.CORSIA is the evolution of the Carbon Neutral Growth (CNG2020) voluntary initiative led by IATA aimed at limiting air industry emissions from 2020, with a focus on international flights. The goal for the global airline industry is to achieve carbon neu-tral growth by 2035, in parallel with potential future technological advances and other operating mea-sures that may have a positive impact on reduc -
ing the sector’s emissions. With the approval of CORSIA, the next step will be the definition of ways to measure, report and verify (MRV)
2 emissions re-
lated to the international flights operated by airline companies in countries that are signatories to the agreement, as well as the rules for compensation.
1 Data from the International Panel on Climate Change (IPCC).
2 Principle introduced by the 13th annual Conference of Par -
ties (COP 13), the decision making body of the United Nations Organization Conference on Climate Change. The goal is to ensure transparent mechanisms and monitoring and com-munication systems for the performance of the organizations in their efforts to manage GHG emissions.ADDRESSING CLIMATE CHANGE 
Mitigating greenhouse gas emission impacts in the 
airline operation is a strategic topic for the group, which drives reduction and offsetting initiatives, as well as joint improvement commitments with the sector as a whole
The goal for 
CORSIA is to achieve carbon neutral growth by 2035Civil aviation accounts 
for 2% of GHG emissions generated by mankind
39The schedule allows for an initial pilot phase from 
2021 to 2023, to which countries may adhere on a voluntary basis. So far, 65 countries, accounting for 85% of the world’s air traffic, have adhered to the commitment. In Latin America, Mexico, Costa Rica and Guatemala have formalized their participation. The first stage of the implantation, also voluntary, is scheduled to occur between 2024 and 2026. From 2027, CORSIA will be mandatory for all countries whose airline operations exceed 0.5% of global air traffic. In the mandatory phase, the countries’ re-duction targets will be reviewed every three years, which will reflect the advances in the implementa-tion of the agreement.
In addition to the environmental aspects associated 
with climate change, emissions management in the company also takes into account potential impacts for the business. The question is integrated into the company’s risk matrix and drives a series of mea-sures aimed at ensuring the operation’s resilience to extreme climatic events and changes in the legal and regulatory environment.
MATERIAL TOPIC 
Mitigating climate change
— Reducing emissions intensity
— Limiting growth of total emissions—  Achieving carbon neutral 
growth by 2020 (IATA target)
2016 HighlightUnprecedented industry commitment: CORSIA (Carbon Offsetting and Reduc -
tion Scheme for International Aviation)
Refinement of systems for the rational 
use of fuels
1 Air Transport Action Group (ATAG), 2014. Aviation – Benefits beyond borders,  p.7.
2 Air Transport Action Group (ATAG), 2014. Aviation – Benefits beyond borders, p.23.
3 RTK: revenue tonne-kilometres. Total weight multiplied by the distance travelled.The airline industry 
in the context of climate change
The airline industry is the only one in the world to have an agreement aimed 
at achieving carbon neutral growth.
2% 
80% 
70% Around
Around
On averageof the total GHG emissions 
generated by human activities are related to airline operations.
of the industry’s greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are related to flights of more than 1,500 kilometers, for which air travel is the most efficient alternative.
1
Since the beginning of the air industry
2, relative fuel consumption 
(measured in RTK3) has dropped
Flights are also more efficient with 
respect to emissions: while total passenger numbers have grown at around 5% a year, the annual increase in emissions has been around 3%.The airline industry is 
the only one that has a voluntary emissions reduction agreement
40What LATAM already does
The commitment to achieving the CORSIA targets is yet another step in LATAM’s ongoing progress in managing its GHG emissions. The group had already been aligned with CNG2020, the sector’s voluntary commitment to offset all flight operation emis-
sions above the 2018-2020 average from 2020. The group’s target is to achieve carbon neutral growth by 2020 and to (IATA targets 1 and 2) halve its car -
bon footprint by 2050 against base-year 2005.
Regarding emissions generated by its ground op-
erations, in the period from 2012 to 2016, the group 
reduced emissions by 27%, while offsetting mea-sures totaled 13,873 t CO
2e. The total compensa-
tion undertaken by the company during the period, including travel by employees and other indirect emissions, was 26,573 t CO
2e. Diverse initiatives 
contributed towards this result.In Peru, since 2012 ground operation emissions have been offset by the acquisition of carbon credits from the Bosques Amazónicos (BAM) initiative. Compen-sation to date has totaled 24,138 metric tons of CO
2.
In Colombia, 2016 was the third consecutive year in which the company neutralized the CO
2 emissions 
from all its ground operations through the purchase of 1,335 carbon credits related to a project to reclaim de-graded areas in Cáceres in the northeast of the country.  
In total, 3,346 metric tons of CO
2 related to emissions 
from 2013 to 2015 have already been offset. Now the company is studying means of also offsetting emis-sions from its domestic flights in accordance with leg-islation recently approved in the country.The group's entire air 
operation is engaged in a continuous effort to reduce emissions, focused on the target of carbon neutral growth by 202027% reduction 
in GHG emissions in the ground operation from 2012  to 2016
41[305-1, 305-2, 305-3 and 305-4]
GREENHOUSE GASES (t CO2e) 2013 2014 2015 2016∆ 2016/2015
Direct emissions111,844,687 11,716,772 11,610,378 11,343,650 -2.30%
Indirect emissions218,597 18,003 20,660 15,767 -23.68%
Other indirect emissions34,282 7,092 4,214 7,718 83.14%
Total 11,867 ,567 11,741,868 11,635,252 11,367 ,134 -2.30%
Emissions intensity  
(kg CO2e/100 RTK4)84.11 83.36 83.82 83.02 -0.95%
1 Direct emissions (Scope 1): fuel consumption in flight operations, fixed sources and LATAM fleet vehicles, as well as fugi-
tive refrigerant gas emissions.2 Indirect emissions (Scope 2): purchase of electricity. The increase in 2015 refers to changes in Ecuador due to the expan-sion of coverage from 28% to 88%, and in Brazil, due to new constructions and to the opening of new units.3 Other indirect emissions (Scope 3): ground transportation related to the operations (employees, suppliers and waste) and employee business-related air travel (using other companies).4 Emissions intensity, specific indicator for air operations only.Obs.: the formula for calculating revenue ton kilometers (RTK) revenue was adjusted and the weight of revenue passenger kilometers (RPK) in its composition was reduced by 10%, affecting the intensity indicator. To ensure comparability, the data for previous years were restated in this table.To track its performance, LATAM monitors its green-
house gas (GHG) emissions on an annual basis. The calculation takes into account international refer -
ence data and information collected from the man-agement systems of diverse areas of the group. Whenever necessary, data from utility bills are also incorporated into the estimates.
The emissions inventory has been conducted since 
2010, but for purposes of comparison and for mea-suring annual progress, the data from 2012 is used. This was the year when LAN and TAM were merged and when the ISO 14.064 standard was introduced as a monitoring tool. In the most recent inventory, for 2016, the intensity of GHG emissions corre-sponded to 83.02 kg CO
2/100 RTK, a decrease of 
0.95% compared with 2015.
For more detailed technical information about the 
emission factors used for the calculation, the scope of data coverage and the references used, see the the Attachments.Eco-efficiency 
initiatives focused on fuel consumption also provoked a positive impact on GHG emissions, with a 440,300 t CO
2e reduction in 
emissions in 2016
[305-5]0.95% drop in 
emissions intensity
42To progress towards its target of a 1.5% annual in-
crease in fleet fuel efficiency by 2020, LATAM invests continuously in improving flight procedures and in fleet renewal, with positive year on year results. LATAM is the world leader in fuel efficiency. The group’s median fuel consumption is 8.3% lower than the IATA average
1, 
which encompasses around 260 airlines worldwide, representing more than 80% of international air traffic.
In addition to representing important environmen-
tal gains, such as savings of non-renewable re-sources and a reduction in greenhouse gas emis-sions, efficient fuel use also ensures competitive advantages for LATAM from a financial standpoint and in terms of market positioning. In 2016, these measures generated fuel savings of 6,050 TJ, with cost avoidance of US$ 76.1 million. 
[302-4]
Among clients, the group’s robust environmental per -
formance is a key differential, particularly in the cargo transportation sector. Around 25% of LATAM’s rev-enues in this segment come from clients who apply environmental criteria in the selection of suppliers.
The company’s strategy of eco-efficiency in the use 
of fuels is based on two key fronts: improved flight procedures and the periodic renovation of the fleet.GROWING ECO-EFFICIENCY 
LATAM does more with less based on investment in 
a modern fleet, reduced aviation fuel consumption and the rational use of natural resourcesCurrently comprising 332 aircraft, the average age of 
the aircraft in the LATAM fleet is seven years and these models are equipped with efficient engines that em-ploy leading edge technology to avoid wastage of fuel. In addition to reducing CO
2 and nitrogen oxide (NOx) 
emissions, fleet renewal also ensures a decrease in noise generation, another priority topic for the group, especially given the expansion of urban zones, the growth in populations living in areas around airports and the increase in air traffic over recent years.
In relation to improvements in procedures, the initia-
tives are concentrated in the LATAM Fuel Efficiency program, a corporate effort in place in all group units that ensures 3.9% less fuel consumption per flight in comparison with 2010. This performance positions LATAM at world class levels of excellence and very close to the estimated maximum savings of 5%.
Young fleet
 −Average age: 7 years.
 −In 2016, the Airbus A330 models, which have low environmental performance, were withdrawn from service.
 −During the year, the fleet received six Air -
bus A350 aircraft, totaling seven in the fleet. This model consumes up to 25% less fuel than other similar-sized models and 
generates 40% less noise;
 −Two Airbus A320neo aircraft were also in-corporated into the fleet. They have lat -
est generation engines that use 15% less fuel and generate 50% less noise.1 Comparison with the IATA 
2015 average. The data for 2016 
were not available at the time of publication.Among the 
world leaders  in efficiency
43During the course of 2016, after achieving world 
class levels of excellence in fuel consumption during the take off and landing phases, work was focused on seeking efficiency during the cruise phase, which can account for up to 95% of total fuel consumption. A high technology system was introduced to process flight information and cross reference it with pre-established plans, enabling the identification of reduction opportunities on a route by route basis.
Based on this system it is possible to optimize speed 
during the cruise phase; alter, when necessary, route plans, and drive efficient fuel consumption, as well as standardizing the approach and landing opera-tions, providing a more accurate estimate of the amount of fuel necessary for these stages. 
The new measures complement the initiatives which 
have already been incorporated into the company’s routines, such as:
 −Only activating the external lights in approach and landing procedures at lower altitudes, decreasing energy consumption by the lighting system;
 −Coordination of aircraft inspection and mainte-nance activities with flight operations to avoid need for aircraft to fly to a different location to carry out inspections or maintenance.
Satellite navigationLATAM was the first airline in South America to implant Required Navigation Performance (RNP) in its aircraft and in the airports in which it op-erates. The satellite navigation system permits the predefinition of landing routes, reducing the need for maneuvers, which in turn increases safety for passengers and crew members and reduces fuel consumption. The tool is particu-larly useful for landing procedures in adverse weather conditions, such as low visibility.[302-1]
ENERGY  
CONSUMPTION 
(TJ) - INTERNAL2013 2014 2015 2016
Aviation fuel 163,009.44 159,801.37 158,889.43 155,310.60
Gasoline 4.98 5.43 10.07 24.48
Diesel 86.52 79.65 351.70 161.33
Liquefied petro-
leum gas (LPG)6.30 8.57 7 .23 6.88
Natural gas 0.04 0.04 1.28 0.01
Ethanol - - 0.26 -
Electricity 218.04 228.36 214.92 165.39
Total 163,325.31 160,123.42 159,474.89 155,668.69Internal energy 
consumption dropped by  2.4% from 2015 to 2016, driven especially by reduced fuel consumption
Total: 
6,050 TJENERGY SA VINGS – FUELS (2016) (%)  
[302-4]
1 E.g.: route reviews, engine washing focused on aerodynamic performance, 
satellite enabled approach procedures.Rationalization of use of 
auxiliary power unit (APU)
32.7
15.6 8.47. 15.025.1
Approach, landing and taxiing proceduresReduction of weight on boardOptimization of speedCorrective measures for deviations in standard consumptionOptimization of use of onboard air conditioning and pressurization equipmentOther measures
1The diverse 
efficiency measures in fuel use led to a 6,050 TJ reduction in energy consumption
6.1
44Alternatives to non-renewable fuels
After pioneering two commercial flights with bio-fuel in South America in 2012 and 2013, LATAM continues to support efforts and studies for the use of more sustainable fuels in the air industry in the future. The company is actively engaged in dis-cussions on this question. In Brazil, for example, it participates in the debates on the legal framework for biofuel production, including biokerosene, pro-moted by the Ministry of Mines and Energy.
[305-6 and 305-7] 
SIGNIFICANT ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS 2013 2014 2015 2016 ∆ 2016/2015
Ozone layer depleting gases1 (t CFC11e) 3.86 2.18 4.96 6.44 29.84%
Nitrogen oxides (NOx)
Total (t) 40,752 40,022 39,722 38,828 -2.25%
Total intensity (g NOx/RTK2) 2.89 2.84 2.86 2.84 -0.91%
Intensity in passenger operation 0.28 0.26 0.26 0.27 0.47%
Intensity in cargo operation 1.57 2.02 2.13 1.85 -13.36%
Sulfur oxides (SOx)Total (t) 1,805 1,776 1,759 1,720 -2.22%
Total intensity (g SOx/RTK
2) 0.13 0.13 0.13 0.13 -0.91%
Intensity in passenger operation 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.47%
Intensity in cargo operation 0.07 0.09 0.09 0.08 -13.36%
1 Includes: HCFC-22; PFC-218; HCFC-141b; HCFC-142b; HFC-134a; R507A; R410A; R422D; R438A; Halon-1211 and Halon 1301.
2 RTK (Revenue tonne-kilometers): revenue generated in metric tons per kilometer.
Obs.: the formula for calculating revenue ton kilometer (RTK) was adjusted and the weight of revenue passenger kilometer (RPK) in its composition was reduced 
by 10%, affecting the intensity indicator. To ensure comparability, the data for previous years were restated in this table.Currently, it is the group’s understanding that the 
large-scale adoption of this type of fuel still depends on an integrated strategy that would include fuel pro-ducers, aircraft engine manufacturers, the airlines and the pertinent regulatory authorities. Up until now, the use of alternative fuels by the group has encountered difficulties, such as the discrepancy between the vol-ume produced and the potential demand, as well as high prices and complicated distribution logistics. 
LATAM does not invest directly in biofuels, but will be 
interested in using them when prices, production con-ditions and commercial terms are similar to those for aviation fuel.
MATERIAL TOPICS 
Eco-efficient management
Reducing noise  and other emissions
—  Maintain levels of excellence in the 
rational use of fuels
—  Continuous improvement and in-vestment in technology
—  Managing compliance in noise generation
2016 highlightsRenewal of fleet to include models with lower fuel consumption, lower GHG and noise emissions
Information technology applied to pursuit 
of efficient fuel use during all flight stages
Initial steps towards the integrated man-
agement of other impacts, such as water consumption and effluent disposalNOx, SOx and ozone 
layer depleting gases are monitored
45In 2016, LATAM progressed in unifying procedures 
for managing all aspects of the business, publishing its global Safety, Quality and Environment Policy. The document was validated by senior manage-ment and establishes guidelines for the integrated management and monitoring of progress by the pe-riodic appraisal of performance and the review of targets, goals and resources allocated. 
[+ Attachment]
Focused specifically on the environmental area, the policy determines the adoption of best practices with a view to preventing any kind of contamination and driving the efficient management of LATAM’s carbon footprint.
Environmental management at LATAM spans all the 
operation’s activities, including maintenance services, logistics and waste disposal. It is underpinned by the adoption of structured systems based on internation-al standards, both in flight and ground operations.
In the operational area, the group is certified under 
the IATA Environmental Assessment (IEnvA) voluntary program, a wide-ranging system created by the Inter -
national Air Transport Association (IATA) to drive im-provements and progress in environmental manage-ment. The international operation in Chile obtained this certification in 2015, making LATAM the first company in Latin America and the third worldwide to have the seal. Currently LATAM is studying the possi-bility of seeking certification for other operations.
The IEnvA program is aligned with ISO 14.001 environ-
mental management standards and takes into account the specificities of the aviation industry, covering as-pects related to the legal requirements at the certified company's destination network and enabling the de-velopment of improvement processes customized for each organization's most relevant environmental as-pects. In addition to minimizing legal non-compliance risks, driving greater transparency in governance, im-proved communication of environmental questions and promoting continuous improvement, the certification enables LATAM to manage resource allocation more efficiently, generating financial gains for the company.
Currently, 91% 
of the group’s operations have environmental management systems in place, and 25% of these are certified under an international standard
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT  (US$) 2013 2014 2015 2016
Investments (Capex) 12,522,000 2,522,000 911,691 148,297
Operational expenditures (Opex) 817,760 983,110 1,925,418 2,168,387
Total 13,339,760 3,505,110 2,837 ,108 2,316,684
Costs avoided172,140,601 93,786,247 79,155,500 76,176,514
1 Takes into account savings based on efficiency measures, costs avoided because of non-compliance and other factors.The LATAM 
environmental management systems enable greater accuracy in tracking environmental investments and the results achieved in terms of gains in efficiency and cost avoidance.POLICIES AND SYSTEMS 
Clear corporate directives, structured environmental management 
systems and international certifications and references that drive integrated process improvements and impact reductions
46Best practices
IEnvA certification also serves as a parameter for the integrated management of other potential company environmental impacts. LATAM pursues conformance with the IEnvA Best Environmental Management Practices Manual to enhance procedures related to water, effluents and waste.  
[+ Attachment]
In relation to water, for example, LATAM has moni-tored consumption and adopted rational usage measures for a number of years. In 2015, when Southeastern Brazil was affected by a water sup-ply crisis, the company adopted a contingency plan whereby its planes avoided filling up with water in airports located within the region affected by the drought. As part of a more integrated vision based on the IEnvA manual, the group included the com-plete consumption and discharge cycle for its di-verse operations in the monitoring process. This analysis was the reason behind the decision taken in 2017 to not discharge water from aircraft in cer -
tain specific locations, such as Easter Island (Chile).Analysis of environmental risksLATAM’s environmental performance is incor -
porated into the group’s risk matrix, which guides leaders in the definition of business strategies and other decisions. Considerations include any potential operational impacts on the environment, the capacity to adapt to in-creasingly rigorous standards and legislation, management of the supply chain and even-tual climatic changes, such as temperature in-creases and variations in rainfall volumes.
In constant evolution, in 2016 the risk analysis 
process incorporated possible costs related to emissions in the countries in which the com-pany operates, for example Colombia, which recently approved a tax on the emissions gen-erated by domestic flights. To enhance man-agement, the decision was made to separate the risks related to CO
2 emissions from nitro-
gen oxide (NOx) and noise emissions. In the course of the year, the company also incorpo-rated the potential risks of soil contamination from fuel and lubricant spills into its matrix.
The integrated vision 
of the topics fortifies management Social and 
environmental aspects are incorporated into the risk matrix
47INSTANT SNAPSHOT
ENVIRONMENTAL 
PERFORMANCE2013 2014 2015 2016
Climate change
Emissions intensity 
(kg CO2e/100 RTK)1 84.11 83.36 83.82 83.02
Total emissions  (t CO
2e)11,867,567 11,741,868 11,635,252 11,367,134
Eco-efficiency, reduction of noise and other emissions
Rational fuel use 
(reduction compared with IATA average)7 .68% 7 .42% 7 .44% 8.30%
Average age of fleet (years)7 7 7 7
Noise (% compliance with chapter 4 of ICAO
2)100 100 100 100
Energy consumption (TJ)
3 163,325.31 160,123.42 159,474.89 155,668.69
Energy intensity (MWh/100 RTK)0.32 0.32 0.32 0.32
Policy and systems
Units with EMS
4 
implanted7 7 7 7
Units with EMS4 
certified0 0 2 2
1 Takes only flight operations into account. 
2 International Civil Aviation Organization.  3 Takes flight and ground operations into account. 4 Environmental management system.13% 1.5% 1.5% 
reduction in fuel use per 100 RTK3 since 
2012, when LATAM's consolidated 
monitoring was initiated.
Systematic, gradual reduction in carbon 
footprint. In comparison with 2012, the decrease is as high as 
8%a year by 2020
Emissions 
stabilized at 2005 levelsimprovement in fuel 
consumption efficiency by 2020 (IATA
1 target nº 1)
Halve net CO2 emissions by 
2050 against base-year 2005 (IATA
1 target nº 3)2009/2012
Systematic, gradual reduction in carbon footprint. In comparison with 2012, the decrease is as high as 
8%Carbon growth 
stabilized by 2020Carbon Neutral 
Growth (CNG) in 2020 (IATA
1 target nº 2) 2009/2012
4% 10% 10% 
reductionenergy intensity reduction target in buildings (MWh/FTE
4)improvement in infrastructure energy efficiency by 2020 2014
20142009/2012
10% 10% 
In 2016, 91%  of the main hubs operated by 
the company had an EMS, and the company 
continues to work on ensuring implantation in all of them.It has not yet been possible to establish the systematic monitoring of this indicator in the ideal coverage scope, but LATAM has been working on enhancing the measurement systems to enable this. The data for 2016 indicate a drop in total generation.
Full 
implementationreduction in waste 
generation
Implement an Environmental Management System (EMS)less waste by 2020COMMITMENT BASE-YEAR
2TARGET 2016 RESULTS
2012
2012Mitigation measures resulted in a 27% reduction 
in ground operation emissions compared with 2012. Additionally 13,873 t CO
2e were offset 
from 2012 to 2016.Zero 
carbon in ground operationsCarbon neutral ground operations by 2020
1 International Air Transport Association.
2 Base line used to establish the evolution in the company's consolidated performance. In some cases, in addition to the base year defined by LATAM at corporate level – 2012 or 2014, depending on the commitment –, monitoring also encompasses comparisons with performance prior to the merger.3 RTK: revenue ton-kilometers. Total weight multiplied by the distance traveled.4 Full Time Employee.
48Clients
In this chapter
 50 ENHANCING RELATIONS
49ENHANCING RELATIONS 
The group is developing a series of initiatives to 
fulfill client expectations and to enhance their experience prior to, during and after each trip
LATAM is committed to enhancing the way it re-
lates to clients and to anticipating the ever faster transformation in consumer demands and habits. Focused on proximity and quality, the aim is to offer a differentiated experience prior to, during and after each trip.
During the course of 2016, the group consolidated 
a new approach to interacting with clients in all service areas – airports, contact centers and crew members. This is based on the three pillars of the LATAM culture – efficiency, safety and care – and is aimed at establishing a new level of delivery for clients, defined based on a global strategy and ad-justed to the specifics of each operation.
Routine processes, team organization and demand 
flows were reviewed, analyzing information about client profiles and needs. In this new dynamic, em-ployees gained autonomy to take decisions, while leaders received specific training to enable them to manage their teams more effectively, driving engagement, recognizing outstanding performance and identifying points demanding attention and re-quiring adjustment. 
This change began in 2015, with the implantation of 
the Twist pilot project in the Estado Contact Center, in Santiago, Chile, and Brasilia Airport in Brazil, the fourth largest in the group operation. Throughout 2016, the new culture was extended to other units and by the end of the year, eight different contact centers had experience the transformation – en-compassing both, company teams and service pro-viders. 45 airports were involved (60% of the total), including all the larger ones; the new way of work-ing was introduced first among crew members. The target is to reach all LATAM airports and all flight attendants by the end of 2017 .
The actions have 
a positive impact on clients and the LATAM team
45
airports and  8 contact centers have already taken part in the change
50The locations in which the cultural transforma-
tion has already taken place have shown positive changes in the main indicators monitored. In the airports, the impact rate during the year reached 87%, exceeding the target (85%). The index takes into account performance of four key indicators: adherence to the new procedures, team efficien-cy– based on service rendered, punctuality at the airports and baggage dispatch management–, em-ployee satisfaction and client satisfaction.
The level of client satisfaction increased at all the 
airports in which the group operates, with the final result per country ranging between 80% and 93% against a target of 85% for the period. With respect to team adherence and satisfaction, results im-proved steadily over the months, varying between 80% and 110% of the targets established; however, there is further room for improvement.
Increasingly digital
To offer clients new forms of connectivity and com-munication, LATAM continues to invest in technol-ogy. Via the company website and smartphone application, it is possible to buy tickets, make res-ervations, check in, obtain a virtual boarding pass and access real time flight status information. A significant advance in 2016 was the expansion of the online service enabling passengers to alter trav-el and check in dates to all countries, even for tick-ets using different flight codes (LA and JJ). Today, over half the check ins are done digitally, directly in the app or on the website; almost 9% take place via self-service totem.Connectivity and 
client relations
—  New technology 
—  Attention, communication and care
—  Service excellence MATERIAL TOPIC 
LATAM App New service culture
+ than 4 
million
The largest number of 
clients who used the app were concentrated in Brazil, Chile and Peru+ than 
2.3 
million
active users during the year  clients downloaded the LATAM app  in 20162016 Highlights
7 mil  employees impacted 
(15%  of the total)increase of up to
39% in team 
satisfactionteam efficiency:
96%-101%client satisfaction: 
80%-93%
51During the flight, passengers can also access LATAM 
Entertainment, an application that offers a menu with films, television series, news programs, music and books that users may access directly on their cell phones, tablets or laptops. The service is of -
fered on short haul domestic flights that are nor -
mally operated with smaller aircraft that do not have individual screens.
In the post-flight satisfaction survey there was an 
increase in the number of passengers who recom-mend the company, indicating the onboard enter -
tainment service as the main reason.
Satisfaction
LATAM tracks passenger satisfaction via an on-line survey using Net Promoter Score (NPS) methodology. In 2016, the degree of satisfaction was 41 points, on a scale from 100 negative to 100 positive. The diminutive one point increase is highly significant. This was the first consoli-dated satisfaction survey since the launch of the new LATAM brand, and it demonstrates the migration of the positive attributes and level of excellence of the former LAN and TAM brands in the perception of clients. 
[102-43]
The increase in the overall satisfaction rate was influenced mainly by the improved punctuality of flights, but there were variations between the dif -
ferent operations. In Brazil and in Chile, the degree of satisfaction increased by 5 and 7 percentage points respectively. In Colombia and Peru, there was a decrease due to alterations in the in-flight meal service. New adjustments to this service are scheduled for the first half of 2017 and should im-pact the rating positively. 
[102-44]
As a result of the cultural change implemented during the course of 2016, the frequency with which client satisfaction is measured was increased and expand-ed to include different interaction times with LATAM. At the airports after finishing the check in, the user can now evaluate the service provided on electronic panels at the check in counter. The data is monitored in real time by supervisors and is used as an input for team management on each shift. The reduction in time between the actual experience and the clients’ feedback is helping the company to identify devia-tions and to drive process improvements in a faster and more segmented manner. The surveys to rate the flight experience are also more straightforward. Currently, they are sent to the passengers the week after the flight; however, a new platform that will provide the passenger with the survey questionnaire on the day of the flight is under development.
The client 
surveys drive improvement measures
52Cargo segment
In 2016, LATAM adopted Net Promoter Score (NPS) methodology to survey client preferences related to LATAM Cargo services. The methodology was already in use to monitor passenger satisfaction and enables the more accurate identification of the positive attri-butes of the service provided and those which need to be improved.  The consolidated result for 2016 was 14 points, on a scale from minus 100 to plus 100. In the group's domestic operations, the index reached 20 points, with variations among the coun-tries. The best result was in Brazil: 24 points. In the group's international operations, particularly worthy of note was Miami with a score of 48 points. Per -
formance in Asia and Europe was rated negatively, and specific action plans to improve this are being undertaken in 2017 . 
[102-43]
The positive attributes indicated in the most recent survey include the product and service portfolio (up-dated in 2016 in accordance with client needs), the capillarity of the destination network, the quality of the attention paid to clients, the LATAM brand image, the speed of commercial processes and fulfillment of reservations (times, itineraries and care with the car -
go transported). The opportunities for improvement identified are concentrated on greater agility in op-erating processes and digital tools for clients to track and manage processes. Strategies for addressing these demands will be determined in 2017 . 
[102-44]
As part of the consolidation of the LATAM brand, in 2017 the group launched the new website: www.latamcargo.com, which includes a section for posting complaints. LATAM has a Customer Care team which proactively tackles any problems in cargo operations. It is also responsible for ad-dressing customer complaints.
Monitoring of the cargo 
and passenger segments is based on the same methodologyThe Miami cargo 
operation is the champion in client satisfaction
53As part of the LATAM brand unification process, in 
2016 the company’s two loyalty programs were re-named. The LAN Pass program, valid in the Spanish speaking countries, is now LATAM Pass, and the TAM Fidelidade in Brazil, is now called LATAM Fidelidade.
Highly valued by clients, the programs are still 
aimed at rewarding passengers who fly more by means of a series of benefits, such as free tick-ets and products and faster access to check in and boarding.  They have also incorporated a number of improvements. These include the possibility of receiving confirmation of upgrade requests with 12 hours notice – previously the confirmation depend-ed on the availability of seats in the aircraft and only occurred after the flight closed. This benefit is valid for all the routes operated by LATAM, regard-less of the user’s loyalty program. 
Another change was the unification of the mem-
bership categories (Gold, Platinum, Black and Black Signature) in alignment with the airlines in the one-world global alliance. However, the loyalty program “currencies” remain distinct: miles in LATAM Pass and points in LATAM Fidelidade.Now the loyalty 
programs are LATAM
At the end of 2016, LATAM had 26,1 million mem-
bers in its loyalty programs, an increase of 15.4% over the previous year. Of these, 13 million were members of LATAM Pass and 13.1 million, mem-bers of LATAM Fidelidade.
LATAM Fidelidade is part of Multiplus, the largest 
loyalty network in Brazil. A publicly traded com-pany, Multiplus is listed on the BM&FBovespa ex -
change and its controlling shareholder is TAM.26.1 million 
members in the loyalty programsINSTANT SNAPSHOT
CONNECTIVITY AND SATISFACTION 2015 2016
Active users of the LATAM app12,535,214 4,021,213
Auto check in  
(as a percentage of total check ins) 5 7.7% 59.0%  
Digital check in (via app or website)  44.9% 50.1% 
Check in via self-service totems 12.8% 8.9%
Passengers– Satisfaction (NPS)240 41
Cargo – Satisfaction (NPS)2 3- 14
1 Used the app at least once during the period of one year.
2 Scale from -100 to + 100.
3 NPS methodology was adopted in the cargo sector in 2016.
54Safety
In this chapter
 56 INTEGRATION AND EXCELLENCE
55Safety is a high priority at LATAM, which invests 
in high technology systems and drives team compliance with all established procedures INTEGRATION AND EXCELLENCE 
Care for employees, passengers and communities is 
a constant concern at LATAM. Using technology as an ally, risk management in the company is focused on pursuing continuous improvement and involves the systematic monitoring of every stage of the op-eration, enabling the group to evolve its processes and practices year on year while simultaneously boosting employee engagement in this area.
After the advances achieved in standardizing pro-
cedures and the integration of information in 2015, last year was marked by the consolidation of inte-grated safety risk management. LATAM is aligned with the most rigorous international standards and participates actively in diverse working groups and forums for the exchange of experiences and knowl-edge aimed at improving safety in the industry. Worthy of note among these is the International Air Transport Association (IATA) and the Latin American and Caribbean Air Transport Association (AL TA).
Safety at LATAM is managed on four different lev-
els: operational or flight safety, corporate or infra-structure, occupational and emergency response.Operational safetyIn 2016, LATAM enhanced the monitoring and anal-ysis of information about all the flights it operates. A system centralizes data on all the aircraft operat -
ed by the company, covering up to 96% of flight in-formation. In the most modern aircraft in the fleet, which are equipped with wireless networks, infor -
mation is transmitted on a fully automated basis as soon as the aircraft lands, ensuring even greater efficiency in the process.
2.6 TB 
of data analyzed  per yearAn automated system 
provides support for integrated flight analysis
56Every day, 10 GB of information are processed and 
analyzed by specialized teams. The integrated view of this information provides an accurate diagno-sis of the state of the company’s equipment, the situations encountered during the flight and the at -
titudes adopted by the flight crews, enabling the definition of improvement plans. The data gathered in 2016 indicate full air crew compliance with com-pany standards, the result of constant investment in training. Furthermore, this information enables a proactive stance in anticipating possible problems with equipment.
This monitoring drives one of the main advances 
in management, providing an integrated view of all flight stages: take off, the cruise phase and landing. In line with industry trends and the increasing tech-nological sophistication of the aircraft, the compa-ny has been applying the learning acquired during years of identifying and systematically managing risks to the cruise stage of flights. In parallel with the evolution in the equipment, since 2010 LATAM has been reinforcing training in manual flight pro-cedures to ensure that the crews are prepared to act rapidly in the event of any failure in automatic protection processes. Tracking of the new indicators demonstrates that the air crews comply fully with all recommendations and best practices.
Dynamic scenario At LATAM, the pilot training program is ex -
tremely dynamic. Pilots undergo periodic re-training, with the course contents updated every year to incorporate experiences within the company or reported by other airlines and disclosed by the competent authorities. The objective is to ensure that the pilot is al-ways prepared to act assertively when faced with adverse situations, which are mutable and demand flexibility.MATERIAL TOPIC 
Health and safety in the 
air and on the ground
— Managing potential risks
— Ensuring the highest standards—  Focus on employees, clients and 
communitiesSystematic risk 
management drives continuous improvement
96% aroundIntegration of flight information moni-
toring systems: LATAM processes
of flight information, enabling 
more effective monitoring of air crew compliance with established procedures
Internal public: risk management and 
promoting a safety mindset2016 HighlightApproval of the LATAM Safety, Quality and Environment Policy (page 87)
57Managing safety at LATAM is a cross cutting 
process that takes a wide-ranging series of risks and variables into account, supported by knowledge and technology to leverage ongo -
ing improvement. This enabled the group to effect a veritable turnaround in air operations in environments with volcanic ash – particles of rock and minerals expelled during volcanic eruptions which remain suspended in the air. This is a recurrent problem in some regions of South America, representing a threat for air -
craft engines.
Armed with scientific information about the precise characteristics – size and concentra-tion – of the particles which could compromise aircraft, allied with investments in measuring equipment and monitoring of eruptions and air currents, LATAM managed to reduce deviations from routes and flight cancellations caused by the problem. In 2016, for example, LATAM was the only airline that was able to maintain nor -
mal operations in complete safety in the re-gion affected by the cloud of ash that hovered in the air for 15 days after the eruption of the Cabulco volcano in Southern Chile.
The process of enhancing operations in environ-
ments with volcanic ash was initiated in 2013, after a series of eruptions from the Copahue volcano located on the border between Chile and Argentina impacted LATAM’s activities in the region for almost 40 days. The learning pro-cess involved the exchange of information with air authorities in Europe who deal with this kind of situation and contracting a specialist in the area. The company also installed a network of sensors that monitor the presence of particles in more than ten airports in regions with active volcanoes in Argentina, Chile and Ecuador. Volcanic ash
Knowledge and 
technology reinforce safety
58
Safety infrastructure
LATAM adopts standardized processes at the air -
ports in which it operates, in line with corporate cri -
teria and local regulations. One focus of attention is 
monitoring the boarding of passengers without valid documentation (expired or fraudulent) or who are barred from entry at the destination. Another refers to inappropriate passenger behavior during the flight – frequently cause by alcohol or drug abuse before boarding. In addition to inconveniencing the other passengers and presenting a potential safety risk, these situations can lead to delays or deviations from the route. In these cases, LATAM follows the law and is prepared to adapt to any new measures that may be introduced by the competent authorities.Occupational safety
The main risks of accidents mapped by the com -
pany are those involving work at height or in con -
fined spaces, exposure to noise and handling mobile 
equipment, hydraulic systems and aircraft engines. Risks of disease range from exposure to glass fiber, ultraviolet radiation, solvents, dust mites, vibrations, manipulation of metals, manual work involving cargo and psychosocial risk which may cause asthma, aller -
gies, skin cancer, stress, tendinitis and other injuries.
Even having a culture that prioritizes proactive risk prevention, there was one fatal accident involving an LATAM employee during maneuvers by an air -
craft at the Salgado Filho airport in Porto Alegre, in the South of Brazil. The company provided the victim’s family with all possible assistance and co-operated with the investigation conducted by the Rio Grande do Sul police. The final report indicated a communication failure in the team.
After the accident, the company reviewed all air -
port maneuvering and maintenance procedures, 
modifying processes and retraining ground crews worldwide. As a result of the case an awareness workshop was organized for leaders in Brazil.
In the consolidated results for the operations, 
LATAM maintained the trend towards a reduction in the total number of injuries (from 739 in 2015 to 542 in 2016) and in the corresponding rate (from 1.42 to 1.18). The number of days lost, however, was higher than that for the last two years, due to the fatal accident in Brazil. 
[403-2]Emergency response
LATAM has in place a unified emergency response plan, overseen by the Emergency Committee, which reports directly to the CEO. The plan, which provides for the mobilization of 5,000 people organized in 11 local committees, is based on the following directives:
 −care for passengers and family members, includ-ing psychological support;
 −support for the authorities in investigation pro-cesses;
 −provision of information to the communication media;
 −guarantee of execution of operational activities.
In 2016, the group adopted a new system for ac -
tivating the emergency response plan, decreasing the time needed to mobilize the 5,000 people to be involved in this type of incident. Now, all are noti-fied in just 4.5 minutes.
During the year, LATAM initiated the organization of 
an Emergency Week in each one of its 11 branches (Chile, Brazil, Argentina, Peru, Colombia, Ecuador, the United States, Paraguay, Spain, Mexico and LATAM Cargo Brasil). This involved training for the team and for leaders. A total of 2,391 people took part. At the end, there was an emergency drill to assess compliance with the guidelines set forth in the response plan.
EMERGENCY RESPONSE 2014 2015 2016
Emergency team members 4,287 5,000 3,723
People trained 1,987 2,129 2,391OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH 
AND SAFETY2014 2015 2016
Number of injuries 1,234 739 542
Injury rate12.40 1.42 1.18
Number of days lost 12,764 12,072 13,4862
1  Total injuries /average number of employees x 100.
2  6,000 days lost were added to the calculation due to the occur -
rence of a fatal accident, in accordance with Brazilian regulations 
governing this question.
Safety management is based  on four perspectives:  operational (in flight), infrastructure, occupational  and emergency responseINSTANT SNAPSHOT
59People
In this chapter
 61 GREATER PREPARATION AND EFFICIENCY
6061
LATAM is fully aware of the important role its work 
force plays in growing the business and achieving the company’s future vision. For this reason, the group’s personnel management model is focused on team de-velopment and encompasses structured talent attrac -
tion and retention actions, performance monitoring, training and development, health and safety (further information in chapter Safety) and succession plan-ning. The company ended 2016 with 45,916 employ-ees, representing more than 60 nationalities in the 25 countries in which it operates. 
[102-8] [+ Attachment]
In 2016, the year the LATAM brand was officially launched, the group maintained its commitment to consolidating a unified culture. In parallel, the initia-tives aimed at simplifying the company and making it more efficient, productive and agile were main-tained, the objective being to resume growth and remain competitive in a delicate economic conjunc -
ture, particularly in certain markets such as Brazil.
In the initial stage, the changes were concentrated 
particularly on the support areas, pursuing efficiency and opportunities to simplify processes by means of the standardization or centralization of activities in order to avoid overlapping responsibilities. An exam-ple was the restructuring of the Human Resources area with the creation of a unified call center for all the countries and areas to clarify doubts regarding GREATER PREPARATION AND EFFICIENCY 
The group invests in enhancing management to gain agility and 
sustainability, driving closer ties between leaders and employees
routine processes, maintaining a dedicated team to 
deal with strategic issues in a more focused manner. An in-depth analysis was also undertaken to iden-tify possible adjustments to the company’s benefits policy, focused on senior management.
Considered necessary to ensure the long-term sus-
tainability of the business, the measures affected the entire work force. During the year, the staff  turnover rate was 14.8%, slightly less than in 2015 (15.5%). 
[401-1]  [+ Attachment]
Due to its complexity, the transformation plan, which will impact the way the business is managed through-out the organization, will be continued in 2017 .
LATAM Recognition PlatformThe LATAM Recognition Platform was launched as a means of enhancing existing forms of rec -
ognition and encouraging engagement in the group’s culture. This mechanism permits any employee to recognize and to be recognized for good conduct and best practices in safety, efficiency and caring for people. The platform is open to all employees and, exceeding ex -
pectations, received more than 17,000 recog-nitions from May to December.Focus  
on process 
simplification and standardization of training for the entire groupLATAM’s work force 
comprises 45,916 professionals
62
GENDER (%)  
Women
38
62Men
COUNTRY (%)  FUNCTION (%)
Operations
35
17118209Other crew 
members
Pilots and co-pilotsSales
AdministrationMaintenanceAlignment 
and high performanceThe people behind LATAM  [102-8]
50.9
5.7
25.4Brazil
Peru                         Argentina
ChileColombia                       Ecuador                                                                                   Others                                  
3.43.23.1
8.363
Closer ties with leaders
The cultural change initiated in 2015 in the LATAM service areas, which include the operational teams (airports, contact centers, and in flight services), is serving as inspiration for the implantation of new relationship dynamics with leaders.
The model is aligned with the transformation that 
is taking place throughout the company – the Twist project –, and was devised collaboratively during workshops with leaders at all levels. The goal is to bring leaders and their teams closer together, with a focus on engagement, development and recogni-tion. Appraisal and feedback tools - used by man-agers with their employees and vice-versa – are also faster and more straightforward.
As a result of the model a new communication 
practice has been implanted for leaders and their teams. In LATAM News, leaders meet with their employees on a weekly basis to report on the main occurrences in the company and to give a preview of important upcoming matters.  
The leader is also at the team’s disposal to clarify any doubts.
Another novelty is the online Barometer platform 
– in which employees respond to a survey on the performance of their immediate chief. The survey is applied three times a year for teams with a mini-mum of five people. The information gathered is discussed in a meeting with the whole team and is used to feed improvement plans.MATERIAL TOPIC 
Talent management and 
controlling staff turnover 
— Professional development 
— High performance culture
— Strengthening leaders
2016 highlight
—  Tools to bring leaders and their teams closer and promote stra-tegic alignment: LATAM News, Barometer
—  New training programs for client facing leaders and teams, in line with the cultural transformation strategy: assertive communica-tion and managing emotions
—  Advances in the succession planClimate surveyLATAM carries out an annual internal climate survey. Since 2014, the assessment has been based on the Organizational Health Index methodology, which goes beyond questions related to satisfaction, en-compassing engagement and degree of alignment with the company’s strategic drivers. Around 71% of the employees took part in the survey in 2016, and the result remained stable compared with the pre-vious year at 63%.
Training and development
In 2016, the training program was enhanced with new courses aimed at supporting the new client care model, which drives the entire business. 34 workshops on assertive communication were at -
tended by 362 leaders. The Managing Emotions course was developed for client facing employees with the objective of further enhancing service lev-els. 90% of the staff who work at the airports and in the LATAM contact centers completed the course.362
leaders attended 
workshops on assertive communicationINSTANT SNAPSHOT
64
PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT 2014 2015 2016
Total employees153,072 50,413 45,916
Turnover114.6% 15.5% 14.8%
Employee satisfaction 62.0% 63.0% 63.0%
Average number of hours 
training per employee36 41 36
Career management
Performance appraisal 
(among employees eligible 
for assessment2)NA 95% 99%
Performance appraisal (considering the complete work force)74% 73% 70%
Internal recruitment for leadership positionsNA 85% 65%
Succession plan
Critical positions with 
successors mappedNA 78% 81%
1The numbers reflect the adjustments made by the group in pursuit 
of greater efficiency and competitiveness.2Takes into account employees eligible for appraisal during the pe-riod, which excludes temporary contracts, special cases, employees on leave in excess of 180 days and pilots and copilots. Although other crew members are submitted to the general appraisal process, they follow a different schedule which extends to the first months of the year following the appraisal period.NA: data not available.The updates regarding regulatory contents and internal 
procedures proceeded, incorporating revisions aimed at the simplification and standardization of processes. 
Overall, more than 1.6 million hours of technical, behavioral and leadership training were given, re-sulting in an average of 36 hours training per em-ployee. 
[404-1] [+ Attachment]
Performance appraisal and career progressionThe group has a unified employee appraisal and feed-back process, undertaken in accordance with pre-established criteria and involving leaders in the stage known as the calibration forums. In 2016, the com-pany appraised 99% of its eligible employees. This corresponds to 70% of the work force.
The results of the performance appraisal serve as 
a reference for career advancement. In the course of the year, 65% of leadership position vacancies were filled internally and 35.7% of the executives classified as high potential and high performance assumed new positions in the group.
With a structured succession plan, currently 81% of the 
critical positions in the company have potential suc -
cessors mapped among employees considered to be ready to assume a new position immediately (66%) and others still at the preparation and development phase (15%). The result for 2016 is aligned with the projected target for the period, which corresponded to 70%.
Remuneration and benefits
LATAM remuneration policy comprises a fixed sal-ary and variable remuneration, calculated based on the company's financial performance, achievement of corporate targets, area targets and individu-al performance. As a talent retention tool, senior management receives a bonus linked with LATAM share prices. The bonuses are cumulative and re-demption is progressive, reaching 100% two years after being granted.
The company benefit plan also includes life insur -
ance, insurance for business travel, health plan 
and discounts on air tickets for the employee and spouse or companion. Discounts are up to 75% for tickets with prior guarantee of seat and up to 100% for those subject to confirmation at time of travel.
All legal benefits are guaranteed, such as maternity 
and/or paternity leave in each country, and those determined by Chilean law: medical assistance, ac -
cident insurance and private pension plan. 
[401-2]1,663,571 hours  
of technical, behavioral  and leadership training
US$ 20.3 million investedGenerating 
value for society
Neste capítulo
 66 LATIN AMERICA IN FOCUS
 69  CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP AND 
PHILANTHROPY
65The continent is a source of inspiration for and a 
driver of sustainable tourism, as well as business initiatives that value and help preserve the region’s cultural and environmental heritage 
[203-1]LATIN AMERICA IN FOCUS 
By means of its relationship network, LATAM acts 
as a catalyst for the development of the countries in which it operates. This involves the promotion of sustainable tourism, environmental care, as well as a social and economic balance aimed at valuing local culture. These actions are driven by values in-tegrated into the company’s culture, such as a ge-nuine care for people.
With a focus on sustainable tourism, since 2009 
the company has run its Cuido mi Destino program, which engages employee volunteers, students, re-presentatives of public authorities and civil society organizations in projects to repair or rebuild tourist spots and to provide training for local community members. The program generates immediate re-flexes on local economies, boosting commerce and other services.In 2016, the program was active in all the South American countries in which LATAM operates, with the exception of Brazil, which will implement a pro-ject in São Luís (Maranhão) in the Northeast of the country in 2017 . The amount invested in 2016 was US$ 181,612. Total investment since the launch of the program is US$ 1.8 million.
There follows a description of some of the measu-
res undertaken:
Argentina: The community chosen for the Cuido mi 
Destino program in Argentina was San Pedro de Co -
lalao, in Tucumán province. Involving an investment of US$ 51,562 and the participation of around 60 stu -
dents, the program restored the People’s Theater. This included painting the interior, repairing the boxes and recuperating the gardens. Another measure in which 50 community members participated was the revitaliza -
tion of the gardens in one of the city’s squares.
invested in  
Cuido mi destino since 2009US$ 
1.8 
million
Local culture  
and development
66Chile: With help from students, teachers and com-
pany employees, LATAM built an exclusive area for the guides at the Huilo Huilo nature reserve, located in the village of Neltume in the province of Valdívia. 38 new guides were also certified to work in the re-serve. The investment totaled US$ 30,000.
In the Quemchi region on the island of Chiloé, LATAM provided support for the construction of a space to provide the local community and tourists visiting the region with free handicraft workshops. In addi -
tion to LATAM, the project involved the local govern -
ment and civil society organizations. The company’s investment in the project was US$ 17,000.
Colombia: In Colombia, an important pedestrian trail 
was revitalized on the island of San Andrés, including the planting of seedlings, painting bridges and cle -
aning up the beach. Cuido mi Destino also reached Pereira, in the province of Risaralda, with the ins -
tallation of an open air work of art created by a group of artists. In the two locations, some 90 student and LATAM volunteers were involved, receiving support from the local governments, the Gran Colombiano Polytechnic University  and the Academy of Innova -
tion for Sustainability (AISO). A series of workshops and dialogues on business models for sustainable tourism, leadership, conscious tourism and tourism in the digital age, among other topics, was also orga -
nized. The investment totaled US$ 44,019.Ecuador: In 2016, the third edition of the program in 
Ecuador focused on the Guayllabamba zoo in Quito. Benefiting the local population and tourists visiting the country’s capital, the zoo received new signa-ge and trash cans. Its public areas were smartened up and a rest area for visitors was revitalized. The measures, which involved an investment of more than US$ 17,000, were undertaken by 40 LATAM employees and 50 students from a high school in the city. 
Peru: In Cusco, the Taray Gazer belvedere, from 
which it is possible to view the Sacred Valley of the 
Incas, was the tourist spot that benefited from the Cuido mi Destino program. Signs and new handrails were installed and exclusive paths for pedestrians were laid out to increase safety for visitors and com-munity members. Stands were also installed for the artisans who sell their work at the site. Additionally a tourist map of the city was elaborated. Moreover, talks on environmental education and sustainable tourism given by specialists from the Peruvian mi-nistries of the Environment, Foreign Trade and Tou-rism were organized for 60 young people in the re-gion. The investment totaled US$ 28,000.Awareness to 
drive sustainable tourismThe sustainable tourism 
initiatives supported by LATAM strengthen  local economies
67Tourism and development [203-2]
In 2016, LATAM inaugurated various non-stop fli-
ghts to tourist destinations in South America. These included one between Santiago and Puerto Natales, in Chilean Patagonia, another from Quito to the is-land of Baltra or South Seymour in the Galapagos archipelago, Ecuador,and the route from Lima to Jaén, a region in Peru with important archeologi-cal sites. The new routes, which facilitate travel for visitors to these regions, are aligned with LATAM strategy of fomenting sustainable tourism through measures that boost the development of the local economy while preserving cultural heritage and the environment.
These initiatives are made possible thanks to par -
tnerships between the group and other companies, 
non-governmental organizations and public au-thorities and further leverage tourism as an agent of economic foment in the region. According to local estimates of the average amount each tou-rist spends, the more than 8.2 million passengers transported by LATAM on international flights wi-thin and to and from South America injected more than US$ 8.2 billion into local economies. The calculation includes international flights between countries on the continent.The pursuit of shared value and the commitment to provide clients with differentiated offerings were the key elements of a project which reviewed the meals served on board LATAM’s international flights in 2016. The route chosen was to focus on the cuisine of the different destinations and, in close collaboration with suppliers, to redesign the menus based on the following five factors:
 −choice of ingredients and dishes characteris-tic of the region in which the flight originates;
 −local produce (short distance);
 −preference for organic foods;
 −to optimize the use of animal products, with non-traditional cuts and forms of preparation;
 −seasonal products.
The definition process involved testing more than 500 different dishes and applying the concept in full to the meals served on the Buenos Aires (Argentina)-Miami (United States) route in an ei -
ght-month long pilot project. This change boosted passenger satisfaction with the meal service by 25%. Adjusted for the specificities of the situation and the limitations imposed by the large scale, the new menu is now a reality on all executive class flights, changing in two-month cycles in line with the seasonality of the ingredients.Gastronomy and 
sustainability
 
ChilePeruLATAM PASSENGERS –  
TOURIST SPENDING IN 2016 (%)1  
Total: 
US$ 8.251
billion2515
22
BrazilArgentina     29Colombia         45Ecuador                        8.2 million passangers 
transported on international flights within and to and from  South America
1 Based on the average spend per tourist as informed by the different local 
tourism and statistics bureaus: Department of Tourism, Chile (2015); Empresa Brasileira de Turismo – Embratur (2016); Instituto Nacional de Estatística e Censo – INDEC, Argentina (2016); Peru Export and Tourism Promotion Com-mission – PROMPERU (2015); National Administrative Statistics Department – DANE, Colombia (2014); and Ecuadorian Ministry of Tourism (2015).
68One of LATAM’s corporate responsibility measures 
is free or subsidized transportation for people and cargoes involved in initiatives driving a positive im-pact for society and the environment. These inclu-de the donation of air tickets benefiting individu-als and social organizations, the transportation of recyclable materials and support for seminars and other social and environmental events, to mention but a few. In parallel, the group encourages its em-ployees to engage as volunteers to ensure the con-tinuity and growth of these and other initiatives.
In 2016, the entire group was mobilized after an earthquake hit Ecuador in April, leaving more than 650 people dead and 2,000 missing. LATAM acti -
vated its Solidary Aircraft program, that transports humanitarian aid in the event of natural catastro -
phes and other emergency situations. This was the first time that the plan took on an international scope, involving the mobilization of volunteers, permanent contact with authorities, including em -
bassies, and partnerships with non-governmental organizations and other civil society bodies. More than 672 metric tons of humanitarian aid were transported – a part in three exclusive flights or -
ganized by LATAM immediately after the tremors. In a commercial operation, the volume transpor -
ted would have generated around US$ 1.9 million in revenues for the company. LATAM also trans -
ported doctors, firemen and other professionals to the scene of the disaster. The group’s proactive initiative earned it tributes from the Ecuadorian Red Cross and the Quito Metropolitan Region Fire Brigade.
LATAM also partnered with DIRECTV in a volunta-ry movement to build 10 houses (more resistant to seismic tremors) in the Manabí region, one of the most affected by the earthquake. The company donated air tickets for groups of people participa-ting in the rescue efforts. The experience resulted in a documentary that will be available on the LATAM Entertainment app and on the individual screens in some aircraft.CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 
AND PHILANTHROPY 
Humanitarian aid, the donation of air tickets and the transportation 
of recyclable materials are some of the social measures LATAM promotes in the six South American countries in which it operatesPartnerships with governments 
and social organizations boost the effectiveness of the measures
PHILANTHROPIC INITIATIVES IN 20161  
[203-1]
Community  
              investments
Commercial 
initiativesCharitable 
donations
1 Includes: donation of air tickets, free or discounted cargo transportation, free 
advertising space for social initiatives, financial contributions for institutions and 
investments in management and infrastructure for company's own social programs.14.50%
25.89%59.61%
Total: 
US$ 4,824,879
5,460 hours dedicated 
to volunteer work
69Transparency in the 
donation processSupporting health care iniciatives
By means of ticket donations, LATAM provides travel assistance for people involved in social initiatives and individuals who need to travel for some kind of medi-cal treatment. In 2016, the company provided tickets in the six countries in which it operates. LATAM also responded to the requests of certain organizations that have partnered with the group for years, provi-ding tickets for low-income individuals requiring me-dical treatment in other locations. 
In Colombia and Peru, for example, a significant por -
tion of the donated tickets went to doctors and vo-
lunteers participating in the Operación Sonrisa, whi-ch provides special care for children with cleft lip or palate, as well as to the actual patients and family members. In Colombia, 1,078 children were exami-ned and 445 were operated on. In Peru, there were 380 consultations, with 199 surgical interventions.At the end of 2016, the Board of Directors ap -
proved the LATAM Group donations policy. This is valid for all company units and objectively es -
tablishes the criteria for donations, as well as the validation stages, with the proper definition of roles and responsibilities. 
In accordance with the document, donations 
should be made by means of the provision of services (free transportation for individuals and cargos), goods or cash contributions. In line with the group’s sustainability strategy, the funds raised should benefit works and projects that will provoke positive social, environmental, edu -
cational and/or cultural impacts and should be directed primarily at low-income individuals in the regions in which the company operates.
All donations must be analyzed and validated by the Vice President of Corporate Affairs and the CEO; donations in excess of US$ 10,000 require the approval of the Executive Board. The approval flow also involves the Legal and Compliance areas, to ensure that the LATAM principles of ethics and transparency and any pertinent legislation are being observed. To fur -
ther guarantee propriety, the donation contract must include the anti-corruption clauses in the company’s Anti-Corruption Compliance policy.
The transportation of doctors and 
volunteers in Operación Sonrisa enabled the treatment of 1,458 children in Colombia and Peru and the execution of 644 surgical procedures
70Environmental protection
The only airline operating on Easter Island, located in the Pacific Ocean some 3,700 km from the west coast of Chile, LATAM transports the recyclable wa-ste collected by the island’s local government. In addition to helping preserve a fragile habitat and free up space on the island, this ensures that the waste is disposed of properly.
A total of 143 metric tons of waste were returned to 
the continent in 2016, including cardboard, plastic and aluminum – the separation of the latter was initiated at the beginning of the year. The funds raised from the recycled materials are invested in environmental preservation projects on the island.
In San Andrés, in Colombia, LATAM is finalizing a coo -
peration agreement to transport used tires. The goal is to remove these tires over a period of six months, transporting 5 metric tons per week. The material will be disposed of by means of co-processing.Wishes come true
The partnership with the non-governmental organization Make-a-Wish was maintained in Brazil. This project aims to make the wishes of children with serious diseases and who would like to travel to somewhere special in the world come true. Thanks to the work done by employee volunteers, 51 children benefited from the initiative in 2016.  A different kind of wish also came true when a girl who dreams of being a flight attendant spent a day immer -
sed in this universe at the company’s corpora -
te academy. The project was also run in Peru, where 39 children made a trip with LATAM.
Partnerships with public authorities
In Brazil, LATAM has an agreement with the 
Ministry of Health to provide free transpor -
tation for medical teams, as well as donated organs and tissues nationwide. During the year, 195 organs and 658 tissues involved in transplant procedures were transported.
In partnership with the Brazilian environmen -
tal authority Ibama (Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Naturais Reno -
váveis), LATAM helped 15 animals to return to their natural habitats, including jaguars, par -
rots, toucans, macaws and even a penguin.The actual cargo and 
passenger transportation operation is used for philanthropic purposes and to promote corporate citizenship
143 tons of 
recycled waste removed from Easter Island (Chile) in 2016
71Other actions
 −Un Día en LATAM (One Day in LATAM): the pro-
gram, which has been run in Chile for 20 years, 
brings children closer to the aviation universe by opening the company’s doors to primary and se-condary school children from the Santiago Me-tropolitan region and other cities. Around 4,000 children visit the group’s headquarters every year.
 −Donation of 50 notebooks to the social enterpri-se Laboratoria, based in Lima and Arequipa, Peru, which provides free training in graphic design and web development for young women, driving their insertion in the labor market.
 −Donations: two collection campaigns benefited charity organizations in Brazil. The Winter Clo-thing Campaign collected approximately 5,000 garments; another campaign resulted in the col-lection of more than 8,400 toys, foods, school materials and personal objects.
 −In flight cinema (focused on raising awareness): in Argentina, short films on the environment were shown; in Brazil the theme was the exploi-tation of children. −In partnership with Airbus, LATAM promoted a guided tour of the A350 aircraft at Guarulhos airport in São Paulo (Brazil) for 62 children who receive support from the NGO Instituto Cultural Gotas de Flor.
 −Donation of furniture no longer used by the com-pany to Más Tecnología, a Guayaquil local gover -
nment program that provides computer rooms for disadvantaged schools in this Ecuadorian city. Since 2015, LATAM has been part of this project and has donated more than 50 computers.
 −Volunteer measures for children, elderly people and the victims of violence in Peru, including the dona -
tion of aircraft blankets restored by volunteers.GENERATING V ALUE FOR SOCIETY 2015 2016
Foment for sustainable tourism: Cuido mi Destino
Locations benefiting 9 7
Students involved 516 358
Total investment (US$) 228,913 181,612
Corporate citizenship and philanthropyTickets donated 4,558 4,059
Humanitarian aid transported 
(metric tons)139 678
Recycled materials transported (metric tons)303 143
Children who flew in the Make-a--Wish projectNA 90
Total investment (US$)
4,055,424 4,824,879
NA: data not available.Support for 
different initiatives
Different strategies combine to 
make the operation a catalyst for generating shared value in the countries in which LATAM and its affiliates operateINSTANT SNAPSHOT
72About  
the report
In this chapter
 74 REPORTING PROCESS AND MATERIALITY
 75  GRI CONTENT INDEX
 81  GLOBAL COMPACT
 82  ASSURANCE
73REPORTING PROCESS AND MATERIALITY  
The 2016  LATAM Sustainability Report presents the 
advances and challenges in managing sustainability 
in all the LATAM Airlines Group companies during the period from January 1 to December 31 2016. The content was defined based on the principles of balance, completeness, materiality and stakehold-er inclusion determined in Global Reporting Initia-tive (GRI) methodology, the main reference used for reporting on sustainability and was subject to an independent verification conducted by Deloitte.
The definition of materiality applied in the report took 
into account internal company elements, its commit -
ment to generating shared value, its strategic risk map, the context of its activities, trends identified and stakeholder expectations and needs, including:
 −the results of the broad-based stakeholder con-sultation process conducted in December 2013, which involved individual interviews, meetings, panel discussions, online surveys to gather the opinions and perceptions of executives, employ-ees, clients, suppliers, market analysts and avia-tion industry specialists;
 −global reference documents on the sector’s criti-
cal impacts and topics, such as the publications Sustainability Topics for Sectors – What do Stake-holders Want to Know, from the Global Report -
ing Initiative (GRI) and the Airlines Sustainability Accounting Standard from the Sustainability Ac -
counting Standards Board (SASB); −internal LATAM policies, including its Sustain-
ability Policy, strategic business pillars and the strategic risk matrix;
 −external company commitments, such as Carbon 
Neutral Growth 2020, an agreement with the In-ternational Air Transport Association (IATA), and the Carbon Offsetting Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA);
 −principles and references for companies, such as the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the Sustainable Development Goals;
 −analysis of the company’s performance in the economic, social and environmental spheres as reflected in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index;
 −analysis of group leaders focused on the extent of the company’s influence on each topic and the po-tential impact on LATAM and on its stakeholders;
 −strategic evaluation and revalidation of the topics, undertaken at the beginning of 2017 by the teams directly involved in managing sus-tainability. 
[102-43 and 102-46]
Full commitmentThe group’s performance in sustainability topics is one of the components used in calculating the variable re-muneration of leaders having responsibility for results in the organizational matrix. For example, safety per -
formance, and specifically the non-occurrence of any accidents, is the trigger for the payment or not of an annual bonus. A second stage of the calculation takes into account performance against corporate targets, directly im-pacting the variable remuneration of the Executive Committee and the variable component of all em-ployees’ remuneration. Among the targets monitored, worthy of note are aspects related material sustain-ability topics, such as client satisfaction, linked with the topic connectivity, and talent management and controlling employee turnover, which are part of the Organizational Health Index (OHI). The topic of eco-nomic-financial sustainability is also part of this stage of the calculation and is monitored via financial result and cost efficiency indicators.
The third stage considers specific topics and indica-
tors for each area. 
Information on the management of material top-
ics and the results achieved is disclosed in the 2016  LATAM Sustainability Report, which is designed to 
inform the diverse stakeholder groups about the or -
ganization’s performance in integrating the economic, social and environmental dimensions of the business, balancing the goals of economic growth, managing en-vironmental impacts and generating social progress in the communities in which the organization operates.
74GRI CONTENT INDEX   
[102-55]
TOPIC DISCLOSURE PAGE/RESPONSE OMISSIONS
Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization 12
102-2 Activities, brands, products and servicesThe main services provided are passenger and cargo transportation; there are no cases of banned services 
in any of the markets in which the company operates. There is a complete description on page 12.
102-3 Location of headquarters Chile
102-4 Location of operations 12
102-5 Ownership and legal form 26
102-6 Markets served 12
102-7 Scale of the organization 12
102-8 Information on employees and other workers 61, 62 and 88
102-9 Supply chain 20
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chainThere were changes in the ownership structure (see page 26). Other information regarding changes in the operations or the administration can be found in 2016 LATAM Annual Report  (http://memoria2016.marketinglatam.net /).
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approachLATAM does not formally adopt the precautionary principle, but takes the potential risks and impacts for consumers and society into account in its planning. All the group's services, including routes, itineraries, maintenance activities and loyalty programs are in compliance with applicable legislation.
102-12 External initiatives 15
102-13 Membership of associations 15 and 17
Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision maker 7 and 9
Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 24
Governance 102-18 Governance structure 25
75TOPIC DISCLOSURE PAGE/RESPONSE OMISSIONS
Stakeholder engagement102-40 List of stakeholder groups 15
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 39% of the work force are union members and 73% are covered by collective bargaining agreements.
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 15
102-43 Approach to stakeholders engagement 15 and 74
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 89
Reporting practice102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial 
statementsAll the subsidiaries were covered by the report.
102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 74 and 89
102-47 List of material topics 89
102-48 Restatements of informationThe formula for calculating revenue ton kilometer (RTK) was adjusted, affecting all the indicators dependent on it. To ensure comparability, data from recent years were recalculated in the indicators: Significant atmospheric emissions, Emissions intensity and Energy intensity.  The amounts for effluents and waste in the 2015 LATAM Sustainability Report were corrected.
102-49 Changes in reporting There were no significant alterations.
102-50 Reporting period From January 1 to December 31, 2016.
102-51 Date of most recent report 2016
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding  the report
investor.relations@latam.com
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with GRI Standards This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option.
102-55 GRI content index 75 and 89
102-56 External assurance The report was subject to external assurance. For more details, see page 82.
76TOPIC DISCLOSURE PAGE/RESPONSE OMISSIONS
Economic performance103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 34 and 89
103-2 The management approach and its components 36
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 27
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 85 
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities 
due to climate change39
Indirect economic impacts103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 66 and 89
103-2 The management approach and its components 70
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 70
203-1 Infrastructure investments  and services supported 66 and 69
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 68
Anti-corruption103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 23 and 89
103-2 The management approach and its components 24
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 25
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 23 
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions takenNo cases of corruption were confirmed, neither were any supplier contracts terminated due to corrupt practices.
Anti-competitive behavior103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 23 and 89
103-2 The management approach and its components 24
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 25
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practicesIn 2016, LATAM did not receive any significant fines, defined by the company as amounting to more than US$ 40 million or having the potential to affect its image or operations. The company has made provisions for the pending monetary sanctions, which are disclosed transparently in the company's Annual Report.  
For information on pending suits, see page 90. Details about the company's agreement with the Chilean tax authority Fiscalía Nacional Económica related to the use of codeshares may be found on page 17 .
77TOPIC DISCLOSURE PAGE/RESPONSE OMISSIONS
Energy103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 39 and  89
103-2 The management approach and its components 43 and 46
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 46
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 44
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 43 and 44
Emissions103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 39 and 89
103-2 The management approach and its components 41 and 46
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 46
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 42
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 42
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 42
305-4 GHG emissions intensity 42
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 42
305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 45
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other 
significant air emissions45
Effluents and waste103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 39 and 89
103-2 The management approach and its components 47
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 46
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 87
78TOPIC DISCLOSURE PAGE/RESPONSE OMISSIONS
Environmental compliance103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 23 and 89
103-2 The management approach and its components 25 and 46
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 24 and 46
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and 
regulationsIn 2016, LATAM received four fines totaling US$ 4,329.75 from the Brazilian environmental authority Ibama (Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Naturais Renováveis). None of these were considered significant.  LATAM defines significant fines as ones with the potential to affect the group's image, the continuity of operations or provoking a significant financial impact (fines in excess of US$ 40 million).
Supplier environmental assessment103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 29 and 89
103-2 The management approach and its components 18
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 19, 29 and 46
308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken18
Employment103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 61 and 89
103-2 The management approach and its components 61 and 64
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 25
401-1 New employees hires and employee turnover 61 and 88
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part time employees64
Occupational health and safety103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 56 and 89
103-2 The management approach and its components 56 and 57
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 24
403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities59
79TOPIC DISCLOSURE PAGE/RESPONSE OMISSIONS
Training and education103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 61 and 89
103-2 The management approach and its components 63
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 25
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 64 and 88
Supplier social assessment103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 29 and 89
103-2 The management approach and its components 18
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 19 and 29
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions 
taken18
Marketing and labeling103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 50 and 89
103-2 The management approach and its components 23 and 24
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 24 and 25
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communicationsIn 2016,  LATAM did not receive any significant fines.  The group defines significant fines as ones with the potential to affect the group's image, the continuity of operations or provoking a significant financial impact (fines in excess of US$ 40 million). 
Socioeconomic compliance103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 23 and 89
103-2 The management approach and its components 23 and 24
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 25
419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic areaIn 2016, LATAM did not receive any significant fines. LATAM defines significant fines as ones with the potential to affect the group's image, the continuity of operations or provoking a significant financial impact (fines in excess of US$ 40 million). Details about the other fines disclosed by the company may be found on page 24 and in the LATAM financial statements.
80GLOBAL COMPACT  
LATAM is a signatory to the Global Compact, a 
United Nations Organization initiative aimed at mobilizing the international business community to adopt a series of fundamental and internationally accepted values in the areas of human rights, labor relations, the environment and anti-corruption in business practices.
PRINCIPLE PAGE
Human rights
1. Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 24 and 31
2. Ensure non-complicity in human rights abuses 18 and 19
Labor3. Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to 
collective bargaining76
4. Support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor 18 and 19
5. Support the effective abolition of child labor 18 and 19
6. Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 24
Environment
7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 27, 39, 40, 41, 46 and 47
8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 15, 16, 18 and 19
9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 43 and 45
Anti-corruption10. Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 23, 24 and 25The following table indicates the location in the re-
port of the main actions undertaken.
The group is committed to the 
goals expressed in the iniciative’s 10 principles and is mobilizing efforts to achieve them
81ASSURANCE  
Mr. Enrique Guzmán 
Sustainability Senior Manager Present
Dear Mr. Guzmán,
Hereby, you can find the outcomes of the revision of LATAM 
Sustainability Report 2016 according to the following aspects:
Scope
Limited security revision of the contents and indicators’ adap-tation of the 2016 Sustainability Report according to the GRI Standards, related to the organizational profile and material indicators arisen from the materiality process developed by the Company following the GRI Standards related to economic, social and environmental dimensions.
Standards and Assurance Process
We have carried out our task according the guidelines of the International Standard on Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (ISAE 3000) issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standard Board (IAASB) of the International Federation of Ac -
countants (IFAC).
Our review has consisted in an enquiring process to different 
units and management areas of LATAM, which have been in-volved in the developing process of the report, as well as in the application of analytic procedures and checking tests, which are described in the following items: 
 −Meeting with the Corporate Social Responsibility Chief, Miss María Loreto Silva.
 −Meeting with the entire team which has led the materiality process.Deloitte Advisory SpA
Rosario Norte 407Las Condes, Santiago,ChileFono: (56) 227 297 000Fax: (56) 223 749 177deloittechile@deloitte.comwww.deloitte.cl
 −Analysis of the adaptation of the 2016 Sustainability Re-
port’s contents to the GRI Standards: Core option, and the review of the indicators included in the report in order to verify that they are aligned with the established protocols in the standard. We also check whether the character of not applicable or not material indicators is justified. 
 −Verification, through checking tests of quantitative and qualitative information according to the GRI Standards indi-cators included in the 2016 report, and its adequate gather -
ing from the data provided by LATAM information sources. 
Conclusions
 −The assurance process was based in the indicators estab-lished in the materiality process carried out by LATAM. Once those indicators were identified, prioritized and validated they were included in the report. The reported and verified indicators appear in the following table:  
102-1 102-2 102-3 102-4 102-5 102-6 102-7
102-8 102-9 102-10 102-11 102-12 102-13 102-14
102-16 102-18 102-40 102-41 102-42 102-43 102-44
102-45 102-46 102-47 102-48 102-49 102-50 102-51
102-52 102-53 102-54 102-55 102-56 103-1 103-2
103-3 201-1 201-2 203-1 203-2 205-2 205-3
206-1 302-1 302-4 305-1 305-2 305-3 305-4
305-5 305-6 305-7 306-2 307-1 308-2 401-1
404-2 403-2 404-1 414-2 417-3 419-1
 −Regarding the verified indicators, we can say that has not revealed any attention that causes us to believe that the Sustainability Report 2016 LATAM has not been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards in those areas identified in the scope.Improving Opportunities ReportAdditional to this letter, Deloitte is presenting to LATAM a spe-cial report including improvement opportunities in order to re-inforce management aspects, and the ability of the Company in the elaboration of future sustainability reports. 
LATAM Direction and Deloitte Responsibilities
 −The preparation of the 2016 Sustainability Report as well as 
its content is under LATAM responsibility, which is in charge of the definition, adaptation and maintenance of the man-agement and internal control systems from which the infor -
mation is obtained.    
 −Our responsibility is to emit an independent report based on the applied procedures in our review. 
 −This report has been prepared exclusively by LATAM inter -
est, in accordance with the terms established in the Engage-ment Letter.
 −We have developed our work according to the Independence norms established in the Code of Ethics of the IFAC. 
 −The conclusions of the verification made by Deloitte go for the last version of the 2016 LATAM Sustainability Report re-ceived on May 22, 2017 .  
 −The scope of a limited security revision is essentially inferior to a reasonable audit or security revision, thus, we do not give any audit opinion about the 2016 LATAM Sustainability Report.  
Fernando Gaziano 
Partner
May 22, 2017 .INDEPENDENT REVISION REPORT OF LATAM 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016
82Attachments
In this chapter
 84 THE COMPANY
 85  STRATEGY
 86 ENVIRONMENT
 88 PEOPLE
 89 ABOUT THE REPORT
83THE COMPANY 
Dialogue and joint construction
c.  Heed the observations and apply the corrective 
or preventive measures proposed by the client or any other inspection authority.
d.  Provide all the information requested by the Cli -
ent to facilitate audits and verification of com -
pliance with client guidelines and environmental regulations.
Suppliers’ failure to comply with this clause may re -
sult in termination of the contract. ”
Source: LATAM standard contract.Environmental clause
“Once selected, the supplier must sign a contract, which 
contains an environmental clause. By this clause, pro-viders are compelled to comply with all environmental legal requirements and to take responsibility for any sanctions in this regard. Also, contractors are bound by this clause to safeguard the environment and to avoid actions that may harm it, taking any preventive measures needed. The clause applies to all types of providers, especially those working with hydrocarbons, fuels, effluent discharges, atmospheric pollutants and waste, in particular hazardous varieties.
Also, by this clause the supplier agrees to:a.  Report any event that may cause real or poten-
tial environmental damage to the client.
b.  In the event of an environmental incident, to act strictly in accordance with the guidelines pro-vided by the client (LATAM Airlines Group or any of its subsidiaries), including the application of controls and mitigation measures.
84 [201-1]
DIRECT ECONOMIC V ALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED  
(US$ THOUSANDS)
Revenues 9,527,088.00
Sales of goods, products and services 8,988,340.00
Provision for doubtful debts -  
reversal/constitution0.00
Non operational values 538,748.00
Goods acquired from third-parties -6,049,694.00
Raw materials consumed 0.00
Cost of goods and services sold -3,993,051.00
Materials, energy, third-party services and others-2,056,643.00
Loss/Profit from assets 0.00
Gross economic value 3,477,394.00
Retentions -960,328.00
Depreciation, amortization and exhaustion -960,328.00
Net economic value 2,517,066.00
Economic value received in transference 74,949.00
Equity result 0.00
Financial income 74,949.00
Total economic value to be distributed 2,592,015.00STRATEGY 
DISTRIBUTION OF ECONOMIC V ALUE  
(US$ THOUSANDS)
Distribution of economic value 2,317,044.81
Employee wages and benefits 1,951,133.00
Taxes and contributions -163,204.00
Interest and rent 416,336.00
Interest on capital and dividends 0.00 
Retained earnings/losses 110,670.00
Community investments 2,109.81
Retained economic value 1,169,349.19Financial and operating results
85ENVIRONMENT 
Addressing climate change
DATA COVERAGE 2015 2016
Fuel in air operations Jet Fuel 100% 100%
Fuel for fixed sourcesDiesel 95% 96%
Natural Gas 100% 100%
Gasoline 95% 100%
LPG 100% 94%
Fuel in mobile sourcesDiesel 86% 79%
Gasoline 82% 93%
LPG 100% 100%
Refrigerating gases Various 100% 100%
COBUS in other airlines Jet Fuel 100% 96%
Electricity Electricity 96% 93%
Water consumption Water consumption 90% 89%
WasteNon-hazardous waste 94% 87%
Hazardous waste 95% 99%EMISSION SOURCE EMISSION FACTOR SOURCE1
Jet fuel 3.15 kg CO2/kg fuel EU Regulation (EU) N° 601/2012
Gasoline 69,300 kg CO2/TJ Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 2006
Diesel Gas oil 74,100 kg CO2/TJ IPCC 2006
Natural gas 56,100 kg CO2/TJ IPCC 2006
Liquefied Petroleum 
Gas63,100 kg CO2/TJ IPCC 2006
Electricity (Chile) 326.26 g CO2/kWh http://www.iea.org/co2highlights/
Electricity (Argentina) 540 g CO2/kWhhttp://energia3.mecon.gov.ar/contenidos/verpagina.php?idpagina=2311
Electricity (Peru) 547 g CO
2/kWh http://www.fonamperu.org/general/mdl/bienvenida.php
Electricity (Ecuador) 731.1 g CO2/kWhhttp://web.ambiente.gob.ec/sites/default/files/users/gre-inoso/Informe%20de%20Factor%20de%20Emision%20de%20CO2%202011.pdf
Electricity (Colombia) 284.9 g CO
2/kWhhttp://www.minminas.gov.co/minminas/kernel/usuario_ex -
terno_normatividad/form_consultar_normas_energia.jsp?parametro=2266&site=1
Electricity (Miami) 555.9 g CO
2/kWh http://www.iea.org/co2highlights/
Electricity (Brazil) 81.7 g CO2/kWh http://www.mct.gov.br/index.php/content/view/321144.html
1 Information accessed on May 24, 2017 .
86Policies and systems
Latam’s safety, quality and environment policy
 −Appraise the action and unsafe condition re-
ports by ensuring that no penalties will be applied to those who make them, considering that the error is inherent to the human con-dition, but without accepting intentional and deliberate deviations to the Company’s op-erational standards or processes, in this way we are ensuring the correct compliance with the LATAM Airlines Group’s Code of Conduct.
 −Develop a Safety, Quality and Environmental Management System to regularly review the performance of goals, objectives and resources provided, by implementing the best environ-mental practices, prevent any type of pollution and efficiently manage our carbon footprint.
At LATAM Airlines Group we apply the principles of ethics, excellence and continuous improvement in our Operator and/or Repair Station management processes, in order to move towards our goal of positioning LATAM Airlines Group as the best air -
line in Latin America and one of the best in the world, by reinforcing our commitment to provide a good value for our customers, shareholders, sup-pliers, authorities, employees and places where we develop our operational activities.[306-2]
W ASTE DISPOSAL (t)  2015 2016 ∆ 2016/2015
Hazardous waste 6,592.7215,823.53 -12%
Sanitary landfill 92.21 69.80 -24%
Recycling 132.96 211.08 59%
Incineration 92.04 97. 3 1 6%
Co-processing 223.55 226.69 1%
Controlled deposit 238.14 236.28 -1%
Effluent treatment 5,795.61 4,849.41 -16%
Others 18.21 132.96 630%
Non-hazardous waste 3,014.36 2,211.23 -27%
Sanitary landfill 1,606.30 1,302.94 -19%
Recycling 1,210.85 871.42 -28%
Incineration 0 0 0
Co-processing 19.18 23.67 23%
Controlled deposit 0 0 0
Effluent treatment 0 0 0
Others 178.03 13.20 -93%
TOTAL 9,607 .08 8,034,76 -16%
1 There were errors in the data on hazardous waste published in the previous 
report; these were corrected in this edition.LATAM Airlines Group is committed in achieving 
the highest standards of Safety, Quality and Environment in all its operational and adminis-trative activities, facilities and locations where it operates, providing the necessary resources for this purpose.
For that, we are committed to:
 −Declare Safety as a non-negotiable value of 
our Company, by encouraging a culture of self-care between our employees, develop-ing prevention-oriented processes, identify-ing hazards, assessing and mitigating the risks associated with the various operational and administrative activities, inherent to the Com-pany’s operations and ensuring that the opera-tional staff is psychophysically and medically suitable for the performance of their functions.
 −Comply with all applicable laws and regulations while also observing the internal procedures established by the company and the voluntary commitments to which it is a signatory.
 −Promote the development of a Safety Man-agement System for all the employees in-volved in operational activities.
 Hazardous
 Non-hazardous
2015 20169,607 .08t
8,034.76t
72.5%27 .5%
68.6%31.4%WAST E
87PEOPLE 
Greater preparation and efficiency
[102-8] 
EMPLOYEES 2016 
By countryBrazil 23,338
Chile 11,671
Peru 3,818
Argentina 2,597
Colombia 1,564
Ecuador 1,487
Others 1,441
By genderMen 28,327
Women 17,589
By functional categoryAdministration 8,010
Maintenance 4,895
Operations 15,924
Crew 3,882
Other crew members 8,970
Sales 4,235
By age groupUp to 30 years 15,006
From 31 to 40 years 19,095
From 41 to 50 years 8,329
From 51 to 60 years 2,967
Over 60 years 519
Total
145,916
1 All work contracts are permanent and involve full-time employment.[401-1] 
STAFF TURNOVER RATE (%) 2015 2016
By gender
Men 15.77 13.47
Women 15.05 16.97
By age groupUp to 30 years 19.90 18.17
From 31 to 40 years 14.28 13.47
From 41 to 50 years 10.40 11.71
From 51 to 60 years 9.77 12.74
Over 60 years 24.56 28.52
By countryArgentina 5.81 7 .59
Brazil 16.82 11.18
Chile 14.43 23.61
Colombia 19.52 16.24
Ecuador 16.26 14.32
Peru 15.89 12.91
Others (includes the United States) 12.54 19.22
Total 15.49 14.81[404-1]
TRAINING ( h) PER EMPLOYEE - 2016
By professional category
Administration 14.56
Maintenance 47 .04
Operations 39.47
Crew 42.67
Other crew members 45.83
Sales 26.32
By genderMen 37 .66
Women 33.93
Total 36.23STAFF TURNOVER  [401-1]
(%)
2015 2014 201614.6
15.5
14.8
88ABOUT THE REPORT 
GRI content index
[102-44, 102-46, 102-47 and 103-1]
MATERIAL TOPIC STAKEHOLDER GROUP 
INDICATING RELEV ANCE OF TOPICGRI TOPIC BOUNDARIES DISCLOSURE1CHAPTER2
Where does the impact occur? Organization involvement
Client connectivity and relationshipSenior management, Society, Employees and  ClientsGeneral disclosures
The impact occurs at the points of contact between the company and clients, affecting both groups, mainly where commercial activities are conducted (physical stores and the virtual environment) and in operational service activities (airports and aircraft).
The impact is the result of the company’s operations.102-43
The Company ClientsAbout the ReportAttachmentsGeneral disclosures 102-44
Marketing and labeling 417-3
Health and safety in the air and on the groundSenior management and EmployeesOccupational health and safetyThe impact occurs within the organization, mainly in the aircraft and in airports. The impact is the result of the company’s operations.403-2 Safety
Talent management and controlling staff turnoverSenior management and SocietyEmployment The impact occurs in all the organization’s facilities, affecting all employees and executives.The impact is the result of the company’s operations.401-1
People
Training and education 404-1
Eco-efficient managementSenior management and EmployeesEnergy
The impact occurs in the environment and in the diverse company areas engaged in this topic.The impact is the result of the company’s operations.302-1 and 302-4
Environment Effluents and waste 306-2
Environmental compliance 307-1
Mitigating climate changeSenior management, Employees and SocietyEmissionsThe impact occurs in the environment and in the diverse company areas engaged in this topic.The impact is the result of the company’s operations.305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5, 305-6 and 305-7Environment
Noise reduction
3Senior management, Employees and SocietyThere is no related GRI topic.The impact occurs in airports and in urban areas the aircraft fly over during landing and take off.The impact is the result of the company’s operations.- Environment
1 GRI disclosure whereby LATAM monitors performance in each material topic. In addition to these priority topics, other GRI disclosures relevant for company management are presented in the report.
2 Chapter in which the topic is addressed in this report.3 Although not directly related to any GRI topic, the material topic was covered in the report by collecting information on how it is managed in LATAM, the group’s goals and targets and the results achieved.
89MATERIAL TOPIC STAKEHOLDER GROUP 
INDICATING RELEV ANCE OF TOPICGRI TOPIC BOUNDARIES DISCLOSURE1CHAPTER2
Where does the impact occur? Organization involvement
Government relations, healthy competition and regulatory specificitiesSenior management and SocietyAnti-corruption The impact occurs within the organization affecting all employees and executives and outside the organization, affecting the whole of society.The impact is the result of the company’s operations.205-2 and 205-3
The CompanyGovernance Anti-competitive behavior 206-1
Economic-financial sustainabilitySenior managementEconomic performanceThe impact occurs within the organization affecting all employees and executives and outside the organization, affecting the whole of society.The impact is the result of the company’s operations.201-1 and 201-2
Governance
Generating value 
for societyIndirect economic impactsThe impact occurs outside the 
organization, affecting the  whole of society.The company contributes to the impact.203-1 and 203-2
Socioeconomic complianceThe impact occurs outside the organization, affecting the  whole of society.The impact is the result of the company’s operations.419-1
Value chainSenior managementSupplier social assessment
The impact occurs at suppliers, mainly in activities related directly with LATAM.The company contributes to the impact.414-2
The CompanySupplier environmental assessment308-2
FREE COMPETITION  [206-1]
LATAM acts in compliance with the guidelines es-
tablished by regulatory and antitrust authorities. It received no definitive sanctions related to this question in 2016 and continues to monitor the suits in progress, seeking judicial revision from the com-petent bodies.
Among the processes pending, there is a 
EUR$ 8.2 million fine imposed by European Com-mission on LAN Cargo and its parent company LATAM, for alleged violations of free competition in 2010. This fine had been annulled by the European Court of Justice in 2015. The suits brought by users based on the original fine are still pending and are at the presentation of evidence phase.
In Brazil, the obligation of publishing the sentence 
passed by the anti-trust authority Cade in a mass circulation newspaper remains suspended. The suspension is the result of a request for annulment with injunctive relief in the investigation of alleged violations of free competition – in particular related to fuel surcharges – by air cargo companies. Ini-tially the investigation resulted in the imposition of four fines, the amount of which is under review.
1 GRI disclosure whereby LATAM monitors performance in each material topic. In addition to these priority topics, other GRI disclosures relevant for company management are presented in the report.
2 Chapter in which the topic is addressed in this report.
90Overall coordination
Enrique GuzmánLoreto Silva LavínDaniela StangeJosé Miguel Nuñez
GRI Consulting
Paulo Mindlin – Gestão Origami
Editorial coordination
Judith Mota and Talita Fusco
Translation to English
Raymond Maddock
Graphic design
Naná de Freitas
Layout
Flavia Ocaranza, Gisele Fujiura,  Gustavo Inafuku and Naná de Freitas
Photography
LATAM archiveCredits 
9191