INTEGRA TED REPORT 20204
PRESENTATION
5
HIGHLIGHTS
12
LETTER FROM THE CEO
14
PROFILE  
15  Who we are
17 Value generation model
18 Timeline
21 Fleet
23 Passenger operation
25 LATAM Cargo
27 Awards and recognition70
SECURITY
71 Everyone’s commitment
74
LATAM GROUP EMPLOYEES
75 Joint challenge
78 Who makes up LATAM group
81 Team safety
83
LATAM GROUP CUSTOMERS
84  Connecting people
86 More digital travel experience
88
LATAM GROUP SUPPLIERS
89 Partner network320
SWORN STATEMENT
321
CORPORATE STRUCTURE
322
CREDITS28
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
29 Policies and practices
31 Governance structure
35 Ownership structure
38 Policies
42
OUR BUSINESS  
43 Industry context
44 Financial results
47 Stock information
48 Risk management
50 Investment plan
51
SUSTAINABILITY  
52 Strategy and commitments
57 Solidary Plane program 
62 Climate change 
67  Environmental management 
and eco-efficiency92
METHODOLOGY
93 Construction of the report
96 GRI content index
102 Global Compact
103 External assurance
104 Glossary
105
APPENDICES
179
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
180 Financial statements 2020
270  Affiliates and subsidiaries
312  RationaleINDEX
This is a 
navigable PDF. 
Click on the 
buttons.INT020
3
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsThe LATAM Integrated Report 2020 presents, transparently 
and objectively, the main results and challenges faced by the 
business on the economic, social, and environmental fronts. 
The publication covers all the companies in the group in the 
period between January 1 and December 31, 2020. It has 
been prepared in accordance with two international reporting 
benchmarks: the guidelines from the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) and the integrated reporting principles of the 
International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC).
The group’s financial statements  are an integral part 
of the report. LATAM Airlines Group S.A.and most of its 
affiliates maintain their accounting records and prepare 
their financial statements in US dollars; some use Chilean 
pesos, Colombian pesos, or Brazilian reals. LATAM Airlines 
Group S.A. consolidated financial statements include the 
results of these affiliates translated into US dollars. The 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued 
by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), 
require assets and liabilities to be translated at period-end 
exchange rates, while revenue and expense accounts are translated at the exchange rate of each transaction date, 
although a monthly rate may also be used if exchange rates 
do not vary widely.
Conventions adopted
*  Unless the context otherwise requires, references to 
“LATAM Airlines Group” are to LATAM Airlines Group S.A., 
the unconsolidated operating entity, and references to 
“LATAM, ” “the group” , “we, ” “us” , or the “Company” are to 
LATAM Airlines Group S.A. and its consolidated affiliates: 
Transporte Aéreo S.A. (“LATAM Airlines Chile”), LAN Perú S.A. 
(“LATAM Airlines Peru”), Aerolane, Líneas Aéreas Nacionales 
del Ecuador S.A. (“LATAM Airlines Ecuador”), LAN Argentina 
S.A.(“LATAM Airlines Argentina, ” formerly Aero 2000 S.A.), 
Aerovías de Integración Regional, Aires S.A. (“LATAM Airlines 
Colombia”), TAM S.A. (“TAM” or “LATAM Airlines Brazil”), 
LAN Cargo S.A. (“LATAM Cargo”) and the two regional cargo 
affiliates: Linea Aerea Carguera de Colombia S.A. (“LANCO”) 
in Colombia and Aerolinhas Brasileiras S.A. (“ABSA”) in Brazil.
•  Other references to “LATAM” , as the context may require, 
are to the LATAM brand, which was launched in 2016 
and brings together, under one internationally recognized 
name, all of the affiliate brands, such as LATAM Airlines 
Chile, LATAM Airlines Peru, LATAM Airlines Argentina, 
LATAM Airlines Colombia, LATAM Airlines Ecuador, and 
LATAM Airlines Brazil.
•  References to “LAN” are to LAN Airlines S.A., currently 
known as LATAM Airlines Group S.A., in connection with 
circumstances and facts occurring prior to the completion 
date of the combination between LAN Airlines S.A. 
and TAM S.A.Any suggestions, comments, or questions 
regarding the report may be submitted via 
e-mail to investorrelations@latam.com  and 
sostenibilidad@latam.com . 102-53Presentation•  Unless the context otherwise requires, references to “TAM” 
are to TAM S.A., and its consolidated affiliates, including 
TAM Linhas Aereas S.A. (“TLA”), which operates under the 
name “LATAM Airlines Brazil” , Fidelidade Viagens e Turismo 
Limited (“TAM Viagens”), and Transportes Aéreos Del 
Mercosur S.A. (“TAM Mercosur”).
•  Throughout the text, the GRI indicators  are mentioned 
between brackets, ordered in the GRI contents index, in the 
Methodology chapter.
Enjoy your reading!
4 Presentation
Integrated Report 2020Presentation       Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsHIGHLIGHTS 2020
CONNECTING PEOPLE AND REGIONS
During the pandemic, LATAM’s role took 
on even greater relevance in the logistics 
of South AmericaSOLIDARY AIRPLANE PROGRAM
The group’s experience in passenger and 
cargo transport brings support, care, and 
hope to those in need
NEW DIGITAL  
EXPERIENCE  
Services and information 
for easy and fast access to 
the customer’s preferred 
platform (app, website, 
or message)
2018 2019 20202,259,612 2,211,578
-275,902 
EBITDA: earnings before interest, 
taxes, depreciation, amortization, and 
aircraft leasing. 
The values from 2018 were discloses 
pursuant to IFRS 2016 accounting 
standards.EBITDA (US$ thousand)
 EBITDA Margin 
21.8%  21.2%
-6.4%STRENGTH IN FACE OF ADVERSITY
LATAM responded quickly and responsibly to the 
greatest crisis in the history of aviation
It gained access 
up to US$2.45 
billion  to prepare 
its restructureDIP (Debtor In Possession) 
FINANCING
 Passengers: 2,713,774 
 Cargo: 1,209,892 
 Others: 411,002
Total: 4,334,668Revenues  2020 
(US$ thousand)Over 160 thousand  stranded 
people were transported back 
to their place of origin, 20% of 
them on flights exclusively for 
repatriation
86 flights  from China to South 
America with medical materials 
and equipment, such as face 
masks and respirators
Transport of 1,000 tons of 
medical materials  and Covid-19 
detection tests to the countries 
of South America1.3 thousand  tickets donated 
to healthcare professionals 
on the frontlines against the 
pandemic and to patients under 
treatment for other diseases
39.5 tons  of medical materials 
transported
129.2 tons  of humanitarian 
aid for the region of San 
Andres (Colombia), affected by 
hurricane Iota
Transport of stem cells, organs, 
and tissue for transplants63%9%
28%
Assistance against 
the fires in 
Pantanal (Brazil)Supply to isolated 
regions of Brazil, Chile, 
Colombia, Ecuador, 
and Peru
5
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights       Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsNone of 
this would 
be possible 
without the 
people who 
make up 
LATAM
6 Highlights
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights       Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsMaría José Bravo-de-Rueda Alarcón
Cabin Crew Trainee –In-Flight Service
Lima, Peru
3 years at LATAMSeeing the airport empty, the 
airplanes parked, stores and 
restaurants closed, everyone 
wearing a face mask, feeling people’s 
fear of becoming infected and not being 
able to get as close as before to one’s 
coworkers and passengers was tough 
and sad. Not flying for nearly 6 months 
was even harder. The day when they 
said that the Jorge Chavez [Lima, Peru] 
airport was opening its doors again 
was a day of joy. We were finally back! 
Putting on my uniform after such a long 
time was exciting. I was returning to 
“my office” , I was returning to do what I 
love so much.
I hope we will come out of this bigger 
and stronger after the pandemic. Both 
we and LATAM had plans that were 
forced into pause, and I hope that they 
can be restarted soon.
The hardest thing in the last year has 
been seeing how the pandemic affected 
LATAM in terms of operation, closing 
and decreasing frequencies, and even closing 
subsidiaries. The most beautiful thing is that it 
generated acts of solidarity. In Ecuador, LATAM 
was one of the airlines that provided support 
for humanitarian flights and, with the Solidary 
Airplane, allowed the transfer of essentials 
and medical supplies throughout the region, 
making it possible to help millions of people 
when they needed it most.
The company also kept us abreast of the 
situation. They were always transparent and 
sincere. Communication was always open, 
which showed respect for us, generating a job 
motivation that influenced the commitment to 
our work.Esteban Tonini
Cabin Crewmember –In-Flight Service
Quito, Ecuador
2 years at LATAM
7 Highlights
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights       Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsThe hardest thing experienced 
in 2020 was when the CEO 
announced that staff reductions 
would have to be made and many 
families would be affected. Seeing that 
we had to stop most of the passenger 
fleet and that we would be entering 
Chapter 11, something we never thought 
could happen. This hit us hard because 
of the uncertainty we were facing.
But it has been wonderful to see people 
react in a very positive way giving 
the best of each to come through, 
hearing gratitude comments towards 
the company in different areas and 
teams for looking for ways to keep jobs, 
seeing how, in a short time, passenger 
operations resumed, which required a lot 
of effort and teamwork.Itook this photo on a flight from New York 
(United States) to Guayaquil (Ecuador). 
When I operated several humanitarian 
flights, I was filled with joy to see hundreds 
of passengers whom we were able to 
transport to their homes. The union of all of 
us who make up LATAM, in those months, 
was very valuable. We all did our best to 
come through.
I have already had the opportunity to take 
a group of children with cancer to the 
Galapagos. Seeing their young faces with 
such excitement at realizing their dream 
of traveling is indescribable. Transporting a 
stretcher on board from the Galapagos to 
Guayaquil was another rewarding experience. 
The beauty in these experiences is seeing 
passengers’ gratitude and having the feeling 
of adding something positive to the lives of 
these people.Maria Fernanda Castro
Senior In-flight Service Manager
Quito, Ecuador
20 years at LATAMJuan Carlos Szenkman
Head of Maintenance Department
(Miami – New York – Los 
Angeles – Orlando Line)
Miami, United States
20 years at LATAM
8 Highlights
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights       Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsIn Argentina, the pandemic meant the 
paralyzing of the entire economy for 
several consecutive months. The cessation 
of domestic operations in Argentina was a 
very harsh blow that not only filled me with 
uncertainty, but also marked the end of a 
cycle, a great sense of loss. Despite this, 
LATAM maintained communication with 
all its officials virtually, providing us with 
information and the opportunity to clarify all 
our questions. Despite everything, I also set 
out to get positive things out of the crisis. It 
was very gratifying to have been considered 
to continue in a new cycle, reunite with some 
of my colleagues, have the chance to venture 
into other areas, and see the company from a 
different perspective.
Andrés Zagabria
Special Services Executive
Buenos Aires, Argentina
18 years at LATAM
We have experienced mergers, natural 
disasters such as earthquakes and 
floods; but in all those situations 
we relied rather on our actions to get through. 
This time, we faced something unknown; we 
lived through a situation of vulnerability that 
we had never felt. But, as everything in life is 
bittersweet, it left us a great lesson: humility 
and the way of understanding that in the face 
of great monsters like a pandemic, we are 
this small and that all that's left is to come 
together to face it, use our creativity, get out 
of our comfort zone.
We are the people who build this organization. 
Our diversity in age, culture, experiences, our 
flexibility, have allowed us as a whole to seek 
creative, efficient, and agile ways out.Laura Gherardi Binaghi
Staff Services Manager
Santiago, Chile
23 years at LATAM
9 Highlights
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights       Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsOne day, in mid-April, I got a call from 
my boss: "We need you to go to 
China, do you dare to go?" My answer: 
"When do we leave?" Five days later, we were 
on our way to China for the first time, with a 
LATAM aircraft and the urgent task of filling 
it with everything necessary to distribute and 
supply people in South American countries. 
I spent practically two months touring the 
world to transport medical supplies from 
China to South America. 
I was able to see in several countries the 
joy in people's eyes when we landed and 
unloaded the products that were needed. 
Hearing the sincere "thank you," that's a 
sign of how people see us as company. 
More than a form of transportation, we 
allow dreams to reach their destination and 
transport a hope for life.Sebastián Antonio Millar Ulloa 
Head of Ground Operations
South America South – LATAM Cargo
Santiago, Chile
12 years at LATAMIt was very hard to be apart from my family 
and have a constant sense of uncertainty 
about what would happen, as the pandemic 
was something new for everyone. The best thing 
about 2020 was learning to value every moment 
when I flew and know that we are connecting 
people with their loved ones. I feel enormous 
joy every time I see passengers boarding our 
planes, now that we are flying again.
LATAM is the airline that has seen me grow, it 
was the first company where I worked, and I 
feel proud to belong to this family. We have the 
best talents working day after day, we support 
each other, and never lose faith that we will 
become stronger from this moment on. I want 
us to continue to grow, gaining strength and 
doing our best to be one of the top ten airlines 
in the world.María Camila Pérez
First Officer
Bogota, Colombia
3 years at LATAM
10 Highlights
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights       Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsWe essentially felt the team spirit in 
2020 and 2021. Making the China 
project feasible, reconfiguring 
the Boeing 777 and 787 to carry more 
cargo, adapting passenger flights to carry 
only cargo, adjusting our network, was only 
possible thanks to the individual effort for 
the collective good, with a lot of empathy, 
resilience, and care. Another gesture occurred 
in January 2021, when we saw the collapse 
of the health system in Manaus (Amazonas) 
and were able to donate time, effort, 
attention, and excitement to send cylinders, 
respirators, and concentrators oxygen 
through the Solidary Airplane.
The changes, reductions, and expansions, 
at the rate at which they happened, make 
me see how brave, strong, and capable we 
are to meet the countless challenges of this 
industry.LATAM is much more to me than a job 
or a source of income; it helps people 
realize their dreams. In the last year, 
the group had to make difficult decisions to 
survive; it went into bankruptcy proceedings 
(Chapter 11), carried out a major restructure, 
and cut costs. Very competent and beloved 
colleagues left the company. But in the 
midst of this, it was very nice to see the 
employees’ efforts to help the company 
get through the crisis. We stayed close 
to customers, listening to them, being 
transparent and empathetic, and striving to 
find the best solution for each one. When all 
this is over and we fly again as before, I am 
sure our customers will remember LATAM 
for the good relationship we built.
Bruna Montolar Westphal
Sales executive
Lisbon, Portugal
5 years at LATAMOtávio Meneguette
Director of Domestic Markets - LATAM Cargo
São Paulo, Brazil
5 years at LATAM
11 Highlights
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights       Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsLetter from 
the CEO 102-14
The Covid-19 pandemic represented the greatest challenge 
in history for the airline industry and for LATAM in 2020. The 
impact of this crisis brought entire economies to a standstill 
for months and the restrictions on movement and social 
distancing imposed by the vast majority of countries led 
to the near-total cease of the group's operations. Between 
mid-to-late March, in just 15 days, we were forced to halt 
virtually all of our passenger operation and, during the 
second quarter of the year, we flew at 6% of our original 
capacity. In the second half of 2020, we experienced a slow 
and erratic recovery, ending December with less than 40% of 
our planned operation.
During most of the year, our efforts focused on 
strengthening the group and creating the necessary 
conditions to cope with the crisis, including painful decisions, 
such as letting employees go, reducing operations, canceling 
routes, adjusting our fleet, and asking our workers to 
voluntarily reduce their compensation. One of the most 
complex decisions that we faced, in May 2020, was to begin 
the voluntary restructuring process under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Act. Today, an important part of our focus is 
on preparing a new stage for LATAM through a reorganization 
plan that we will submit to the New York Court.
Beyond this unprecedented crisis, we did not neglect the 
long-term view, and have worked to improve our service. We 
recently launched a new digital experience for our customers 
in Ecuador, Colombia, Chile, and Brazil, allowing passengers 
themselves to have control over their itinerary for most of 
their trip. At the same time, we have worked on listening 
more to our customers to understand how we can improve 
and offer a closer, more transparent, and simpler service.
Despite the impact of the pandemic, our effort to execute 
our operations impeccably has paid off. In 2020, we achieved 
the highest on-time performance indices in our history—
higher than those of previous years in which we had already 
been acknowledged as the most punctual airline group 
in the world. We also achieved the highest satisfaction 
ratings from our customers, measured by the Net Promoter 
Score (NPS) indicator, since its implementation in 2008. 
Passengers rated the safety measures taken since the start 
of the pandemic, the in-flight service, and flight punctuality.
While, given the extraordinary circumstances, our financial 
results showed a sharp slowdown compared to previous 
years, they also made it clear that we are on the right track, 
with a strong and agile company, able to adapt to the new 
scenarios. We closed the year with US$3 billion in liquidity 
(US$1.7 billion in cash and US$1.3 billion in a DIP financing facility)—a solid position to address the pandemic. At the 
same time, we made significant efforts to reduce the group's 
cost structure, resulting in an annual decrease of 38.1% 
compared to 2019. 
The pandemic led us to play a role, with great dedication and 
effort, in contributing to the countries where we operate. 
During 2020, we repatriated more than 160,000 people, in 
coordination with the authorities of various countries and, 
through our Solidarity Plane program, managed to keep 
South America connected to the world, even in the midst of 
border closures. We transported over 440 tons of medical 
supplies benefiting Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, 
Ecuador, and Peru. We mobilized more than 1,100 organs 
and tissues within South America, and completed the 
transfer of stem cells for eight people with blood cancer, 
who received a second chance at life. Finally, we supported 
the transport of over 900 health professionals for different 
needs related to Covid-19.
For the first time, we flew to China and made about 100 
flights. We did this to bring ventilators, protective masks, 
Covid-19 diagnostic tests, medications, vaccines, and other 
supplies to the South American continent. We also ensured 
the continuity of operations in various export industries and 
prevented shortages in isolated regions. And at the end of 
the year, our flights had become synonymous with hope 
for the population as we transported Covid-19 vaccines to 
South America and distributed them at no cost within the 
countries where we operate.
12
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO       Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsI am proud of what we have achieved as a group and how 
our people have been able to cope with this crisis. We never 
stopped flying, keeping alive our purpose of ensuring that 
our customers' dreams reach their destination. 
Although faced with an adverse scenario, we took advantage 
of this time as an opportunity to review our future outlook. 
We have come from a process of deep reflection on what 
kind of group we want to be when the pandemic ends and 
demand is reactivated. We put all paradigms, emotions, and 
beliefs as a group on the table and realized that our role 
must go beyond the operations of an airline. We want to 
be a social player in the societies where we participate. We 
conducted 29 dialogues in Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, and 
Chile on topics as diverse as climate change management, 
gender equality, and consumer relations, among others. We 
listened to 145 experts on these issues and, of course, to 
our customers and our own teams, as well.
And we have taken action on these conversations. We are 
sowing the seeds of this transformation, which will make 
us an even more connected group with the demands of our 
customers, with the aspirations of society, and with the 
socio-environmental challenges of today. We want to be a 
better group of post-Chapter 11 airlines.
I want to take this opportunity to thank, once again, all the 
team members that make up LATAM. We are almost 30 
thousand people from 46 different nationalities, spread 
across 21 countries. We were certainly heavily affected by 
the pandemic, but we rolled up our sleeves so that LATAM 
could keep flying. It has been a privilege to share this path with such a committed team, and I am proud of the group 
we have, despite the difficulties.
Without a doubt, the best witnesses to what this year has 
been, are our employees. That is why, at the beginning of 
this Integrated Report, in the space traditionally dedicated 
to the summary of the year, we have chosen to include 
testimonies from some of these professionals, who relate 
their experiences and their expectations for the future. In this 
way, we show a small sample of this great group of people, 
talent, and hope that make LATAM the group that it is.
The only thing left to say is that we are laying the 
groundwork for a better LATAM and, at the same time, 
we are prepared to do what we love again, to continue 
connecting people and Latin America with the world.
Together, we are LATAM, and we will emerge strengthened 
from this crisis.
Roberto Alvo Milosawlewitsch
LATAM Airlines Group CEO
Constanza Toro and Carmen Pérez, 
both coordinators of Ground 
Operations, next to Roberto Alvo on 
the airport tarmac.
13 Letter from the CEO
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO       Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsPROFILE
14  Who we are  102-1, 102-2, 102-6, 102-7 and  102-10
LATAM group is the main airline group in Latin America, 
present in the domestic markets of Brazil, Chile, Colombia, 
Ecuador, and Peru, and with international passenger 
and air cargo operations. The group is a benchmark for 
connectivity, given its broad destination network (117, 
considering passenger and cargo operations), flight 
frequency, and connection possibilities, boosted in South 
America through the hubs in São Paulo (Brazil), Santiago 
(Chile), and Lima (Peru). LATAM Group stands out for 
its commitment to punctuality, security, and operating 
excellence, which is part of the ongoing effort to improve 
the experience of all its passengers, whether they travel 
for business or pleasure, companies in South America 
exporting their products to other continents, and clients 
coming from countries that transport their products.
In 2020, LATAM faced the greatest challenge in its history, 
following the impact of Covid-19, which forced the 
borders of countries worldwide to be shutdown, triggering deep effects in the aviation sector. As a result of the 
unprecedented effect of the pandemic on passenger 
and cargo operations, LATAM Airlines Group S.A. and its 
affiliates in Chile, Peru, Colombia, Ecuador, the US, and 
Brazil filed for voluntary bankruptcy protection under 
the financial reorganization statute of the US Chapter 
11. This reorganization process provides LATAM with the 
opportunity to work with the group’s creditors and other 
stakeholders to reduce its debt, convert its costs, access 
new sources of financing, and continue operating, even 
as it enables the group to adapt its business to the new 
reality. The group seeks to ensure financial sustainability 
and continue to generate shared value for its 
stakeholders: employees, suppliers, clients, shareholders, 
investors, communities, and society. (Read more about 
the process in Financial Results, on page 44). 
Despite the adverse scenario, LATAM maintained 
connectivity in the region. On the group’s flights, over 160 
thousand citizens, stranded as a result of the restrictive 
measures by the authorities, were able to return home. 
Of this total, 20% were transported on flights exclusively 
for repatriation. LATAM also enabled the transportation of 
medical supplies and healthcare professionals to deal with 
the pandemic, and it guaranteed the supply of essential 
products to various regions, even as it supported the 
export of perishable products from South America. As 
the restrictions were removed, LATAM was able to resume 
its passenger operations.ProfileLATAM Pass 102-2
The group runs the LATAM Pass 
frequent flyer program, the fourth 
largest in the world, with 38 million 
members. The points accrued can 
be exchanged for airfare tickets or 
other services, which vary between 
categories, such as cabin upgrades 
and checked baggage.
 Find out more:  
•  Legal incorporation and Group’s 
purpose: page 106;
•  Physical structure (property, units, 
and equipment): pages 106 and 107; 
•  Company information: page 107 .LATAM Airlines Group S.A. ’s shares are currently traded on 
the Santiago Stock Exchange (Chile). Due to the Chapter 
11 financial restructuring proceedings, the group’s ADRs 
(American Depositary Receipts) were delisted from the 
New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), but they continue to 
trade in the OTC (over the counter) market in the US.
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile       Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      Credits
15Economic boost for the region 203-2
According to the Oxford Economics study “The economic 
impact of LATAM Airlines in South America” , published in 
May 2020, LATAM’s operation drives the economy of various 
industries in the countries where it operates. The group’s 
activities contributed US$33.2 billion in 2019 to the GDP 
(Gross Domestic Product) of 13 sectors in those countries: 
industry, mining, commerce, transportation and storage, 
bonds and insurance, food and lodging services, health, and 
entertainment, among others. The calculation considers 
the direct and indirect impacts, and those derived from the 
operations, as well as the benefit generated by the spending 
of passengers transported in the six countries where LATAM 
had affiliates in 2019.
Each job at LATAM group generates another 46 indirect 
jobs, totaling 1.9 million jobs in 2019. The most benefited 
sectors were tourism (with 502.7 thousand jobs), commerce 
(321.7 thousand jobs), and personal services, including 
entertainment (277 .1 thousand jobs).
Sectoral dialogue
LATAM group fosters the development of South America through its 
participation in various associations and representative entities in Brazil, 
Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru (see the full list on page 108).Main impacts in 2019:
•  LATAM group’s activities represented nearly 1% 
of the GDP in South America and supported 1.9 
million indirect jobs .
•  US$33.2 billion  contributed to 13 economic 
sectors.
•  Indirect jobs: US$13.5 billion  in compensation 
to workers in those chains, and US$5.4 billion  
in fiscal revenue.
16 Profile
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile       Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsCustomer-
focused value 
proposition
Connectivity
 
Safety and 
Security
 
Eco-efficiency
 
Commitment  
to the region 
 
 
Strategic debateV ALUE GENERATION MODEL
Financial capital  
Revenues | Capital | 
Assets
Natural capital 
Aircraft Fuel
Human Capital 
Employees
Industrial capital  
Fleet |Maintenance 
Base | HangarsINPUTSIntellectual capital 
Knowledge of the region 
and business | Operating 
license and slot rights at 
airports | Management 
systems (environmental; 
safety) | Analytics (customer 
experience personalization)Social and 
relational capital 
Frequent flyer programs | 
LATAM Brand | Relations 
with authorities and 
the industryGOVERNANCE AND 
MANAGEMENT
• Ethics
• Financial liability
• Safety and efficiency
• Developing employees
CUSTOMER FOCUS
• Digital experience and 
innovation
• Flexible sales model
• Commercial 
agreements and 
associations
• Loyalty program
             ACTIVITIESThrough its 
activities , LATAM 
transforms those 
inputs  into results 
and impacts .
What we 
do and how 
we do it• Broad destination 
network
• Financial results
• Diversity in the client 
base
• Operating excellence
• Organizational health 
and development 
opportunities
For stakeholders
• Different profiles  
and segments
• Revenue diversification
• Market share
• Leadership in the region
• Credibility
• Competitive spread
• Cost reduction
 
• Being a relevant player  
in society
• Identity and purpose
• Knowledge exchange
• Sector development
• Compliance
• Access
• Autonomy
• Freedom of choice
• Mobility
• Economic drive
• Trust 
 
• Natural resource economy
• Less environmental impact 
and noise
• Economic development
• Social strengthening
• Care of the environment
• Joint construction
• Agenda of the various 
stakeholders’ interests
2
The results are 
the most visible 
facet of the 
operation; the 
materialization 
of the work 
done.3
However, the com -
pany’s main value deli -
very lies in its capacity 
to generate positive 
long-lasting impacts 
for the business and 
its stakeholders.To materialize its 
business, LATAM uses 
capitals of various 
natures that serve as 
an input for work.
IMPACTS
For LATAM
SUSTAINABILITY 
• Solidary Airplane Program
• Climate change
• Environmental management 
and eco-efficiency
4 1RESULTS
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile       Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      Credits
17194619561958
1961
1970
1975
1976
1983
1985
19861994
1993
1990
19891929Timeline
First LAN international 
flight: Santiago 
(Chile) – Buenos Aires 
(Argentina).Start of LAN
services to
Lima (Peru).Start of LAN services to
Miami (United States).
TAM – Taxi Aéreo
Marília created
by five charter
flight pilots.LAN begins 
flights to Europe.
Foundation of TAM – 
Transportes Aéreos 
Regionais by capitan 
Rolim Adolfo Amaro.
Launch of TAM services 
in brazilian cities, 
especially Mato Grosso 
and São Paulo.Constitution of 
Linea Aerea Nacional 
– Chile Limitada, 
through CORFO.LAN becomes
a joint stock
company.
TAM acquired Brasil 
Central Linhas Aéreas 
VOTEC, a regional 
airline that served 
the North and Central 
West regions of Brazil.Privatization of LAN 
completed with the 
acquisition of a 98.7% 
stake by its current 
controllers and other 
shareholders.Launch by TAM of 
TAM Fidelidade, 
Brazil’s first frequent 
flyer program.
Brasil Central
renamed TAM –
Transportes Aéreos
Meridonais.
Start of privatization 
of LAN: the Chilean 
government sells a 51% 
stake to local investors 
and Scandinavian 
Airlines System (SAS).Linea Aerea
Nacional de Chile
(LAN) founded by
Comandante Arturo
Merino Benítez.
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile       Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      Credits
181996
1997
19982004
2003
2002
20012005
2000
19992006
2007
2008• Acquisition by TAM of 
Lapsa Airline from the 
Paraguayan government 
and creation of TAM 
Mercosur.
• Start of São Paulo 
(Brazil) – Asuncion 
(Argentina) flights.LAN lists on 
the New York 
Stock Exchange, 
becoming the first 
Latin American 
airline to trade 
ADRs on this 
important market.Arrival of first A330;
first TAM international
flight from São Paulo
(Brazil) to Miami
(United States).• Launch of the new 
executive class for flights 
to Paris (France) and 
Miami (United States).
• Launch of new 
corporate image as LAN 
Airlines S.A.
• Start of TAM flights to 
Santiago (Chile).LAN continues its 
expansion plan: 
start of operations 
of LAN Ecuador.
LAN Alliance
with Qantas and
Lufthansa Cargo.
• LAN Alliance with 
Iberia and inauguration 
of Miami (United 
States) cargo terminal.
• Creation of TAM 
Technology Center and 
Service Academy in São 
Paulo (Brazil).• Further step in 
LAN’s regional 
expansion plan: 
start of operations 
of LAN Argentina.
• TAM S.A. lists on 
the Bovespa Stock 
Market.
• Start of flights 
to New York and 
Buenos Aires.
LAN joins the
oneworld® alliance.
LAN’s expansion 
begins: start of 
operations of 
LAN Perú.• Start of flights 
to London (United 
Kingdom) and, through 
agreement with Air 
France, to Zurich and 
Geneva (Switzerland).
• Launch of new LAN 
Premium Business 
Class.
• TAM S.A. lists on the 
NYSE.• Start of TAM flights to 
Milan (Italy) and Córdoba 
(Spain).
• Authorization from Brazil’s 
National Civil Aviation 
Agency (ANAC) to start 
flights to Madrid (Spain)  
and Frankfurt (Germany).
• Implementation of low-
cost model in domestic 
markets.• Completion of 
renewal of LAN’s short-
haul fleet with aircraft 
from the Airbus A320 
family.
• TAM receives its first 
Boeing 777-300ER.
• Capital increase of US$320 million.
19 Timeline
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile       Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      Credits2018
2017
2016
2015
201420102009
2011
20122013• Announcement of 
strategic agreement 
with Delta Air Lines 
to provide more and 
better options to 
passengers through 
a complementary 
network of connections 
between Latin and 
North America.
• LATAM announces 
its exit from the 
oneworld alliance as of 
May 1st, 2020.
1 Qatar holds 9.999999918% of LATAM’s total subscribed and paid-in shares.• LATAM Airlines Group S.A. 
and its affiliates in Chile, 
Peru, Colombia, Ecuador, 
the US, and Brazil enter 
the financial restructuring 
process under Chapter 11 
of the US Law, and gains 
access to up to US$2.45 
billion in DIP (Debtor In 
Possession) financing.20202019
• Launch of the E-Business 
unit, in order to improve 
customers’ digital experience.
• Implements various 
initiatives to support the 
fight against Covid-19 in 
South America.
• Solidary plane: 1,374 tickets 
donated (health professionals, 
patients, and others); 1,174 
organs, tissues, and stem cells 
transported for transplants; 
over 524t of cargo to support 
health and humanitarian 
aid initiatives.• Acquisition of 
Colombia’s Aires airline.
• TAM officially joins  
Star Alliance.• Start of cargo 
operations in Colombia 
and domestic passenger 
operations in Ecuador.
• Launch of Multiplus 
Fidelidade.
LAN and TAM sign 
binding agreements 
related to the 
business combination 
of the two airlines.• Inauguration of the first 
flight to Asia.
• New sales model 
comes to international 
flights.Implementation of 
the new travel model 
by the affiliates of the 
domestic markets.Capital increase of 
US$608 million with 
which Qatar Airways 
acquires 10%1 of the total 
of paid and subscribed 
shares of LATAM.• LATAM is born: the 
New Brand for LAN 
Airlines, TAM Airlines 
and Affiliates.
• EETC structured bond 
issue for MMUS$1,020: 
first in Latin Capital 
increase for America.• TAM joins oneworld® 
alliance, which becomes 
LATAM Airlines Group 
global alliance.
• LATAM launches its  
2015–2018 Strategic Plan.Capital increase 
for America. 
US$940.5 million
• LATAM Airlines 
Group is born as a 
result of the business 
combination between 
LAN and TAM. 
• Issuance of 2.9 
million shares.
20 Timeline
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile       Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsLATAM closed 2020 with a total fleet of 300 aircraft, keeping 
296 in the operational fleet. In its international operations, 
LATAM has 59 aircraft, 10 of which are Airbus A350-900 and 22 
are Boeing 787 Dreamliner (versions 8 and 9). The models are 
world benchmarks of efficient fuel consumption and reduction 
of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and noise. For the domestic 
and regional operations in South America, LATAM mainly uses 
narrow-body aircraft, of which it has 137 Airbus airplanes; most 
are from the Airbus family, A320, A321, and A320-Neo. The 
latter consumes 15% less fuel and generates 50% less noise 
than the equivalent model of the previous generation. LATAM 
Cargo and the cargo affiliates in Colombia and Brazil have 11 
Boeing 767 available.
In 2021, LATAM announced a three-year growth plan for the 
cargo fleet that includes the conversion by Boeing of up to eight 
Boeing 767-300ER, following which the group would increase 
its combined cargo capacity by nearly 80%. Through this plan, it 
seeks to expand its service options and take advantage of the 
synergies of operating a homogenous fleet of cargo planes.The growth will take place in two gradual stages. The first stage 
is based on four confirmed orders with Boeing for conversions 
between 2021 and 2022. With these Boeing 767–300BCF 
(Boeing Converted Freighter), LATAM group’s cargo operators 
will go on to have a total of 15 cargo aircraft. The second, on 
the other hand, comprises four conversion options with Boeing 
between 2022 and 2023, with which the carriers would total a 
fleet of 19 Boeing 767-300ER cargo planes.
Maintenance
In Chile and Brazil, LATAM has Maintenance, Repair, and 
Operation (MRO) bases, certified to service the Boeing and 
Airbus fleet. The units give maintenance to the group’s aircraft, 
plan and execute the airplane returns, in line with the group’s 
fleet plan, and occasionally give maintenance services to 
third parties.
The Chilean base is located in Santiago and has the capacity 
to simultaneously serve two narrow body aircraft and one wide 
body aircraft. In Brazil, the maintenance base is located in São Fleet
Carlos, within São Paulo, and it can service up to eight aircraft 
at the same time.
Both of LATAM’s MRO bases performed 315 maintenance 
services throughout the year, which translates into 86% of the 
maintenance of the total fleet. The remaining aircraft were 
serviced by external suppliers. The services performed on the 
company’s own units totaled 1,000,000 man-hours worked.
The line maintenance network (smaller, preventive, and 
corrective tasks) is distributed among the LATAM hangars in 
Santiago (Chile); São Carlos, Congonhas/São Paulo, and Brasilia 
(Brazil); Lima (Peru), Aeroparque/Buenos Aires (Argentina), and 
Miami (USA), among others. The network offers a series of 
automated and integrated services that ensure compliance with 
all safety requirements and local and international regulations.
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile       Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      Credits
21Cargo fleet
LENGTH (M) WINGSPAN (M) SEATSCRUISE SPEED 
(KM/H)MAXIMUM TAKE-
OFF WEIGHT (KG)
Boeing 767-300 F 54.9 47. 6 445.3 851 186,880Alcance
LENGTH (M) WINGSPAN (M) SEATSCRUISE SPEED 
(KM/H)MAXIMUM TAKE-
OFF WEIGHT (KG)
Short-haul fleet/ narrow-body aircraft
Airbus A319-100 33.8 34.1 144 830 70,000
Airbus A320-200 37. 6 34.1 156-168-174 830 77,000
Airbus A320-200-Neo 37. 6 34.1 174 830 77,000
Airbus A321-200 44.5 34.1 220 830 89,000
Long-haul fleet/ wide-body aircraft
Airbus A350-900 66.8 64.8 348 903 280,000
Boeing 767-300 54.9 47. 6 221-238 851 186,880
Boeing 777-300 ER 73.9 64.8 379 894 346,500
Boeing 787-8 56.7 60.2 247 903 227,900
Boeing 787-9 62.8 60.2 313 903 252,650Operating Fleet
AT DECEMBER 31, 2020 OFF BALANCE ON BALANCE TOTAL
Passenger fleet
Airbus A319-100 7 37 44
Airbus A320-200 38 94 132
Airbus A320-Neo 6 6 12
Airbus A321-200 19 19 38
Airbus A350-900 7 3 10
Boeing 767- 300 - 17 17
Boeing 777-300 ER 6 4 10
Boeing 787-8 4 6 10
Boeing 787-9 10 2 12
Total 97 188 285
Cargo fleet
Boeing 767-300F 1 10 11
Total 1 10 11
Total operating fleet 98 198 296
SUBLEASES
Airbus A320-200 - 2 2
Airbus A350-900 - 1 1
Boeing 767-300F - 1 1
Total subleases - 4 4
TOTAL FLEET 98 202 300
22 Fleet
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile       Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsPassenger 
operation  102-6
International market
The international passenger operation includes regional 
flights and long-haul flights towards other continents, 
covering 17 destinations through its own flights and 178 
through code-sharing. Affected by the pandemic, the 
operation was reduced to around 5% of the group’s capacity 
(measured in available seat kilometers or ASK) in April, 
and following a gradual recovery, LATAM ended the year at 
38.3% of its operation, compared to the same period in the 
previous year.Throughout the year, 28.3 million passengers traveled with 
LATAM group to international destinations—61.8% fewer 
than in 2019.
Passenger demand, measured in RPK (revenue passenger 
kilometers), which is equivalent to the number of paying 
passengers by the distance flown, decreased 53.6% 
compared to 2019. Supply or capacity, measured in ASK, 
which is equivalent to the number of seats available, 
multiplied by the distance flown, decreased 70.6% compared 
to the previous year. Load factor was 73.8%, 11.1 percentage 
points lower than in 2019.
Domestic market
Domestic passenger transportation is done in five countries: 
Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru. The operations 
of LATAM Airlines Argentina were suspended indefinitely 
as of June, as a result of the challenging scenario for the 
aviation sector in the country, which was worsened due to 
the pandemic.
As was the case for international flights, domestic 
operations decreased until April. Demand rose gradually 
throughout the year, particularly in the second half of the 
year, and LATAM Airlines Argentina ended the year operating 
at 46.9% of its capacity compared to 2019.Agreement with Azul
LATAM Brazil signed a code-share agreement with 
Azul, boosting the connectivity of both airlines, 
and the value proposition for passengers. The 
alliance includes various routes and considers 
the accumulation of points on both frequent 
flyer programs.
Greater connectivity
In November, LATAM Airlines Brazil and LATAM Airlines 
Colombia announced a code-share agreement with 
Aeromexico, and once they have the necessary 
approvals, the offer of flights to Mexico and the 
connectivity offered to customers will be increased.LATAM group transported 24.3 million people on its domestic 
flights in 2020, a 58.1% decrease compared to the previous 
year. Passenger demand, measured in RPK, decreased by 
62.2% in Spanish-speaking countries (SSC), while supply, as 
measured in ASK, showed a decrease of 59.9%, and the load 
factor corresponded to 76.1%, 4.7 percentage points less 
than in 2019. In the Brazilian domestic market, demand fell 
by 50.1%, and supply by 48.5%. Load factor was down 2.5 
percentage points compared to 2019 settling at 80.0%.
In the consolidated figure for the year, LATAM remained the 
market leader in Chile and Peru, with 61% and 66% market 
share, respectively. In Brazil and Colombia, it had the second 
largest operation.
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile       Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      Credits
23LATAM IN SOUTH AMERICA AND IN THE WORLD  102-4, 102-6 and 102-7
LA TAM Airlines Chile
12 domestic destinations
3.6 million passengers 
transported
 Sky and JetSmartLA TAM Airlines Ecuador
7 domestic destinations
0.5 million passengers 
transported
 TAME and Avianca
LA TAM Airlines Brasil
44 domestic destinations
14.4 million passengers 
transported  
 GOL and Azul19 domestic destinations
3.1 million passengers 
transportedLA TAM Airlines Peru
  Sky Airlines Peru,  
Viva Airlines Peru, 
Star Peru and AviancaINTERNATIONAL 
OPERATION
Consolidated traffic (RPK)
17 .6 million RPK
Capacity (ASK) 
23.9 million ASK
Occupancy rates-international 
market  
73.8%4 million passengers
  
17 destinations LATAM
 
178 code shares
  Market share
 Main competitors
  Destinations (LATAM codes)
  Code sharesDOMESTIC OPERATION
  
94 domestic destinations  
Consolidated traffic (RPK)
 25 million RPK 
SSC: 8.3 million
Brazil: 16.7 million  
Capacity (ASK)  
31.8 million  
SSC: 11.0 million
Brazil: 20.8 million  
Occupancy rates-domestic 
market 
SSC: 76.1%
Brazil: 80.0%24.3 million 
passengers
  75%12 domestic destinations
2.2 million passengers  
transportedLA TAM Airlines Colombia
  25%
  66%
  61%  30%Europe
AfricaNorth America
Latin America and 
the Caribbean
Asia and 
Australasia 5   12
 8 4   52
  21 (Asia)  
17 (Australasia)
  8  Avianca, Viva Colombia 
EasyFly, Satena, and Copa 
Airlines Colombia (“Wingo”)
24
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile       Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsPassenger operationLATAM Cargo S.A. and the cargo affiliates in Colombia and 
Brazil is the main cargo air carrier in Latin America, and 
thanks to the synergies between the company’s cargo 
and passenger operations, the group offers its clients 
transportation in 117 destinations and 20 countries. During 
the pandemic, it played an important role in guaranteeing 
local supplies and exports gained greater relevance.
To meet the demand, cargo operators bolstered the fleet 
of 11 cargo planes with the adaptation of passenger planes 
for the operation. The group’s fast reaction was essential 
for the region’s producers. To serve the demand from the 
salmon industry, for instance, LATAM Cargo came to operate 
more than 35 weekly flights from Santiago (Chile) to Miami 
(US), being responsible for transporting over half of the 
annual salmon exports. Meanwhile, for flower exports, flight 
frequencies between Bogota (Colombia) and Miami (US) 
increased from six to 18 per week. Fruit-producing industries 
in Chile and asparagus producers in Peru are other examples 
of productive sectors that benefited.
Additionally, the operation also helped to prevent shortages 
of food and medication in difficult to reach regions, such as 
the Colombian Amazonia and the Peruvian Amazonia, the 
Galapagos Islands (Ecuador), the State of Arce (Brazil), and 
the Chiloe archipelago in Chile.
Fight against the pandemic
LATAM Cargo S.A. and the cargo affiliates in Colombia and 
Brazil played an active role in facing the pandemic, transporting 
ventilators, facemasks, Covid-19 detection tests, medication, 
and other materials from China to South America. LATAM 
landed in China, for the first time, on April 15, completing 86 
flights to that destination throughout 2020.At yearend, the first lot of coronavirus vaccines to be used in 
Chile was transported and, through the Solidary Plane Program, 
vaccines were distributed for free throughout the country by air 
in 2021. The program also transported vaccines free of charge 
to 24 states in Brazil early in March 2021.
Broad portfolio
LATAM Cargo and the cargo affiliates in Colombia and Brazil 
perform the personalized transportation of various types of 
cargo: perishables—e.g., fruit, flowers, and fish—medication 
and vaccines, large volume cargoes, high-value goods and 
merchandise, dangerous merchandize (such as flammable 
or corrosive substances), postal cargo, and live animals, 
among others.LATAM  
Cargo
2020 Results
In the consolidated figures for 2020, 785 thousand 
tons of cargo were transported—a 13.2% decrease, 
compared to the previous year. Cargo revenues 
increased by 13.7% compared to 2019 and accounted 
for 27 .9% of the group's total. In the period, revenues 
per ATK (available ton-kilometers) increased by 
53.5%, cargo capacity decreased by 26% and load 
factor reached 65%—an increase of 9.9 percentage 
points compared to 2019.CEIV Pharma
LATAM Cargo and the cargo affiliates in Colombia 
and Brazil were the first airlines in the American 
continent to be certified in the Center of Excellence of 
Independent Validators (CEIV Pharma) program, from the 
International Air Transport Association (IATA). In 2020, 
the year when the transport of pharmaceutical products 
with temperature control took on a relevant role, 
the company successfully renewed this certification. 
CEIV Pharma guarantees international and national 
compliance with safeguarding the product’s integrity all 
the way to its final destination, and it also tackles the 
specific needs of air cargo.
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile       Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      Credits
25785,000   
tons 
transported in 
2020
28%  
of LATAM 
group’s total 
revenues11  
cargo freigh-
ter planesPanama City 
PanamaGuatemala City   
Guatemala
Ciudad del Este 
ParaguayAmsterdam   
Netherlands
Cabo Frío   
BrazilChicago  
United States
1. According to the study “Economic 
Impact of LATAM Airlines in South 
America” , carried out by Oxford Econo -
mics and published in May 2020.SUPPORT TO KEY 
INDUSTRIES IN 
SOUTH AMERICA207 .2 mil  
thousand tons/year 
imported 
HIGHLIGHTED 
PRODUCTS:   
Industrial machinery, 
telecommunications 
and technology 
equipment, 
auto parts1
Transport of  
1,000 tons  
of medical 
materials and 
tests imported 
by South 
American 
countries.ChileEcuador Colombia
Brazil 
ArgentinaPeruChile 
Guaranteeing 
supply  to 
difficult to reach 
regions during 
the pandemic.LeticiaGalapagos
Iquitos
Punta ArenasChiloéAcreChileColombia
Peru297 .3 mil 
thousand tons/
year exported1
 
HIGHLIGHTED 
PRODUCTS:
asparagus
flowers
salmon
New Zealand  
Auckland China  
Shangai
Chile  
Santiago86 flights to 
transport medical 
materials from 
China to South 
America.DESTINATIONS 
EXCLUSIVELY  
FOR CARGOCOVID-19 OPERATION
117 destinations 
in 20 countries, 
including  6 
destinations 
(4 countries) 
exclusively 
for cargoTransport of the first 
doses of the vaccine  
against coronavirus 
to Chile.LATAM CARGO AND THE CARGO AFFILIATES IN COLOMBIA AND BRAZIL OFFER TRANSPORTATION
26 Latam Cargo
Integrated Report 2020 26Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile       Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsIn 2020, LATAM was once again recognized for the service rendered 
to its clients and for its commitment to sustainability.
• OAG (OFFICIAL AIRLINE GUIDE) 2020 : recognized as the most 
punctual among the 20 largest airlines in the world in number of 
flights scheduled.
• CIRIUM ON-TIME PERFORMANCE REVIEW 2020 : voted the 
most punctual airline in the world (1st place in the Global Airlines—
Network category).
• WORLD TRA VEL A W ARDS 2020 (WTA) : winner of the awards 
to Leading Airline in South America and Leading Airline Brand 
in the region.
• APEX 2020 (AIRLINE PASSENGER EXPERIENCE ASSOCIATION) : 
Best Service on Board and Best Entertainment on Board in 
South America.
• THE SUSTAINABILITY YEARBOOK 2021 : selected in the Silver 
category. The publication is prepared by S&P Global.Awards and 
recognition
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile       Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      Credits
27CORPORA TE  
GOVERNANCE
28Policies and 
practices 102-5 and 102-16
[+] For further information on the 
guidelines for LATAM’s corporate 
governance, visit this website .LATAM Airlines Group S.A. is a Joint Stock Corporation, 
registered before Chile’s Financial Market Council (CMF, for 
its Spanish acronym) under registration number 306, and its 
shares are traded on the Santiago Stock Exchange and the 
Chilean Electronic Stock Exchange, and on the OTC (over the 
counter) market in the US as ADRs. Its corporate governance 
model is in line with Securities Market Act (nº 18.045) and 
Corporations Act (nº 18.046), and with the rules of the CMF 
in Chile, as well as with US regulation from the Securities and 
Exchange Commission (SEC), and the specific regulation of 
the countries where the group operates. 
A series of corporate guidelines direct employees’ behavior, 
based on standards of ethics, transparency, compliance 
and integrity, accountability, and fight against illicit acts 
(corruption, bribery, antitrust, and money-laundering). The 
Compliance Program, managed by the Legal Affairs and 
Compliance Vice-Presidency, guides the monitoring and 
control processes and its ongoing evolution.Ethics channel
the ethics channel receives reports on breaches of laws and internal rules, 
such as breaches of the Code of Conduct, labor irregularities, discrimination, 
moral and sexual harassment, fraud, corruption, and bribery, among 
others. The channel is guaranteed to be confidential, and is managed by 
an external specialized provider, that performs the initial assessment of all 
records. When necessary, the cases are transferred to the Code of Conduct 
Management Committee in each country (comprised of representatives 
from various areas), which is responsible for ensuring that the cases are 
channeled as required.
29
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance       Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsRelations with authorities 102-40
The aviation sector is regulated and supervised by the 
National Civil Aviation Agency (ANAC) in Brazil, and by the 
General Directorate of Civil Aviation (DGAC) and the Civil 
Aviation Board (JAC) in Chile. Ethics and integrity are the 
frame of LATAM’s interaction with those agencies and other 
regulatory entities. All meetings held are recorded on a 
platform monitored by the Compliance department.
[+] For further information on the Regulatory Framework, 
please refer to the Appendices .
Training on ethics and compliance  
Training sessions on topics regarding ethics, compliance, 
prevention of corruption, and fair practices are part of 
LATAM’s annual agenda; training on the Code of Conduct 
is compulsory and must be renewed every two years. The 
onboarding process for new employees also follows the 
guidelines related to integrity and compliance. 
In 2020, 88.3% of the total employees and 94.7% of 
the executives and members of the Board successfully 
completed the e-learning on the Code of Conduct, and the 
test to assess the effectiveness of the course.
The contracts and purchase orders contain information 
regarding anticorruption. Among suppliers, 75.9% were 
informed of the anticorruption procedures by accepting the 
Supplier Code of Conduct.Training on the Code of Conduct1 205-2
Argentina2
Brazil
Chile
Colombia
Ecuador
United States
Peru
Others
LATAM average42.2%
95.8%
97 .6%93.5%
96.8%
74.3%78.4%
84.5%
88.3%
1 Annual percentage of employees trained in 
the Code of Conduct in each country where 
LATAM operates. The total includes all emplo -
yees on extended medical leave.
2 Considering trainings held between January 
and June, when the domestic operations in the 
country were suspended.Related-party transactions
LATAM has a Policy to Control Transactions with Related Parties 
applicable to LATAM and all its affiliates, which states that 
all transactions with a related party must adhere to the law, 
contribute to benefit society, and be carried out under market 
conditions. It also establishes the cases in which, in accordance 
with the law, it is appropriate to submit such operations for 
evaluation by the Directors Committee and for the approval of 
the Board or the Shareholders' Meeting, as appropriate.
Transactions carried out in 2020 between LATAM and its 
subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial 
statements for the financial year ended on December 31, 
2020. 
[+] For further information, please refer to note 33 of the   
Financial Statements . 
Political contributions
The Policy on Political Contributions establishes the 
guidelines regarding eventual financial aid to parties and 
candidates during electoral campaigns in each of the 
countries where the group operates. Contributions must 
adhere to current local legislation and be in line with LATAM’s 
Code of Conduct. Since the creation of the policy, in late 
2016, the group has made no political contributions.  415-1
30 Policies and practices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance       Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsThe main governing body in LATAM Airlines Group S.A. is the 
Board of Directors , which defines and monitors the group’s 
strategic guidelines. It is comprised of nine directors, elected 
individually for 2-year terms, through an accumulative voting 
system. Each shareholder has one vote per share and may 
cast all their votes in favor of a single candidate or distribute 
them among several. This practice ensures that shareholders 
of 10% of the shares on the market may choose at least one 
representative.
The Board holds regular monthly meetings and, whenever 
necessary, extraordinary meetings. In 2020, attendance 
averaged 97 .7% attendance to the 44 ordinary and 
extraordinary sessions. Board members Carlos Heller, 
Eduardo Novoa, and Patrick Horn attended 95.5% of the 
meetings, Enrique Cueto and Sonia Villalobos attended 
97 .7%, and the other members of the Board attended 100%.Directors’ Committee
The Directors’ Committee also acts as Audit Committee, and 
it is comprised of Board members. This composition meets 
the requirements of the Chilean Corporations Act (LSA, for 
its Spanish acronym), the standards of the Sarbanes-Oxley 
Act, and the guidelines of the US Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC).
As of December 31, 2020, the members of the Directors’ 
Committee, Eduardo Novoa Castellón, Nicolás Eblen Hirmas, 
and Patrick Horn García were considered independent, pursuant 
to article 10A of the US Securities Exchange Act. For purposes 
of Chile’s LSA, which requires that the Board include two 
independent members, Mr. Nicolás Eblen Hirmas does not 
qualify for independent board member status.
In Chile, the independence of directors is defined by the LSA. A 
board member is considered independent when, among other 
characteristics, he or she has no links, interests, economic, 
professional, credit, or commercial dependence of any relevant Governance 
structure 102-18
nature or volume on the company, the other subsidiaries of the 
group, its controller, or the main executives, nor any family ties 
with the latter.
The Directors’ Committee is charged mainly with reviewing and 
assessing the reports by external auditors and other financial 
statements and proposing to the Shareholders’ Meeting the 
names of external auditors and risk rating agencies, among 
other duties.
Board Committees
The Board is supported by four committees in its decision-
making processes: Strategy and Sustainability, Leadership, 
Finance, and Clients. Moreover, the Directors Committee was 
assigned the supervision of the implementation of the Risk 
Pillar in LATAM’s strategic plan, and particularly, to monitor 
the Group’s risk management and ensure the structuring of a 
corporate risk matrix and its management.
31
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance       Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsExecutive sphere
The executive sphere is divided into four large areas: Clients; 
Operations; Commercial, and Finance, with clearly divided 
responsibilities to execute and monitor the strategy. The 
executives in those four areas and the vice-presidents of 
Legal Affairs and Compliance and of Corporate Affairs form 
an Executive Committee, which meets on a weekly basis 
with the CEO. The Strategic Planning areas support the 
Executive Committee and other vice-presidents participate 
in the meetings to discuss specific topics.
The Security, Legal Affairs and Compliance, Corporate Affairs, 
Audit, Technology, and Strategic Planning departments are 
transversal.
Each affiliate has a CEO who is in charge of the subsidiary’s 
operation.Organizational chart
[+] For further information:
- Board composition, résumés and experience: page 109;
- Annual Report on the Board’s Management: page 112;
-  Composition of the senior management sphere and résumés of its members: page 119.Commercial  
vice-presidency Legal Affairs and 
Compliance  
Strategic 
Planning
Digital and IT
Security
Corporate 
Affairs
Human 
ResourcesClients  
vice-presidencyOperations and Maintenance  
vice-presidencyFinance  
vice-presidency
LATAM Airlines Chile
LATAM Airlines PeruLATAM Airlines EcuadorLATAM Airlines ColombiaLATAM Airlines Argentina
LATAM Airlines BrazilBOARD
CEO LATAMDirectors’ Committee
Internal Audit
32 Governance structure
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance       Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsCompensation (US$) – 2020
NAME POSITION BOARD STIPENDDIRECTORS’  
COMMITTEE STIPENDSUBCOMMITTEE 
STIPENDTOTAL
Ignacio Cueto Chairman 29,328.64 - 8,373.9 37,702.04
Enrique Cueto Plaza Vice-chairman 10,967 .97 - 6,854.19 17,822.16
Henri Philippe Reichstul Board member 10,689.95 - 6,970.61 17,660.56
Patrick Horn Garcia Board member 14,664.32 19,552.43 5,237 .93 39,454.68
Enrique Ostalé Cambiaso Board member 7,997 .93 - 7,507 .00 15,504.93
Eduardo Novoa Castellón Board member 14,664.32 19,552.43 8,373.39 42,590.14
Nicolás Eblen Hirmas Board member 14,664.32 19,552.43 8,811.67 43,028.42
Sonia Villalobos Board member 10,689.95 - 6,425.50 17,115.45
Alexander Wilcox Board member 2,302.68 - 956.81 3,259.49
Juan José Cueto Plaza Former board member 3,696.35 - 1,519.20 5,215.56
Carlos Heller Solari Former board member 1,899.00 - - 1,899.00
Giles Agutter Former board member 7,294.50 - 2,602.72 9,897 .22
Compensation (US$) – 2019
NAME POSITION BOARD STIPENDDIRECTORS’  
COMMITTEE STIPENDSUBCOMMITTEE 
STIPENDTOTAL
Ignacio Cueto Chairman 42,238.87 - 16,895.54 59,134.4 1
Carlos Heller Solari Vice-chairman 21,208.20 - 3,224.35 24,432.55
Eduardo Novoa Castellón Board member 23,320.31 31,093.75 18,656.25 71,244.60
Giles Agutter Board member 10,574.56 - 5,971.80 16,546.36
Henri Philippe Reichstul Board member 16,842.44 - 12,202.34 29,044.78
Juan José Cueto Plaza Board member 19,216.76 - 17,006.80 36,223.56
Nicolás Eblen Hirmas Board member 23,320.31 31,093.75 18,656.25 73,070.30
Sonia Villalobos Board member 16,842.44 - 13,473.96 30,316.40
Patrick Horn Garcia Board member 16,643.54 22,191.39 11,625.14 50,460.08
Georges Antoine de Bourguignon Arndt Former board member 6,676.77 8,902.36 5,341.41 20,920.53Board Compensation
The value of figures reported below represents a monthly 
stipend for the Board and the Directors’ Committee, 
approved in the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting held on April 
30, 2020. During 2020, the Board and Directors’ Committee 
had no additional expenses from advisory services.
33 Governance structure
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance       Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsExecutives compensation
In 2020, LATAM's top executives received a total of 
US$18,436,960, in addition to US$13,343,991, as a 
share of results, in March. Gross compensation totaled 
US$31,780,951. In 2019, US$26,498,537 were paid as 
compensation and US$10,332,268 related to the share of 
results, totaling US$36,830,805 as gross compensation.Compensation plans
Compensation plans implemented through the awarding of 
stock options to buy and pay for shares offered by LATAM 
Airlines Group to the employees of the Company and its 
affiliates are acknowledged in the Financial Statements 
pursuant to IFRS 2 "Share-Based Payments” . These plans 
report the effect of the fair value on the options awarded 
as a linear charge to remunerations between the date 
when said options are granted and the date when they 
become irrevocable.
a) LP3 compensations plan (2020–2023)
The company implemented a program for a group of 
executives, lasting until March 2023, with a vesting period 
between October 2020- and March 2023, where the collection 
percentage is annual accumulative.
The bonus is activated if the price target of the stock, defined 
each year, is met. Should the bonus be accrued, until the last 
year, the total shall be doubled (if the stock price is activated). 
This compensation plan has not been provisioned yet, as the 
callable stock price stands below the initial target.
34 Governance structure
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance       Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsOwnership 
structure
Ownership
The goal of LATAM Airlines Group is to maintain a suitable 
level of capitalization that will enable it to ensure safe 
access to financial markets to develop its medium- and 
long-term objectives, optimizing returns to its shareholders 
and maintaining a sound financial position. 
The Company’s paid-in capital at December 31, 2020, 
totaled ThUS$3,146,265 divided among 606,407,693 
nominative, and ThUS$3.146.265 divided among 
606,407,693 of these same shares at December 31, 2019. 
There are no special series of shares, nor privileges. The 
form of the stock certificates, their issuance, exchange, 
disablement, loss, replacement, and any other circumstance 
concerning them, as well as the transfer of shares, will be 
ruled by the provisions included in the Chilean Corporations 
Act and its Regulations.
At December 31, 2020, the Company had no 
controlling shareholder.20201
20191MAIN SHAREHOLDERS TOTAL SHARES %
 a - Delta Air Lines 121,281,53820.00
  b - Cueto Group  99,381,777 16.39
 c - Qatar Airways260,640,768 10.00
 d - Amaro Group 3 38,792,870 6.40
  e - Eblen Group 27,644,702 4.56
  f - Hirmas Group 1,488,971 0.25
 g - Bethia Group 1,000,000 0.16
 h - ADRs 53,057,983 8.75
 i - AFP s 10,803,877 1.78
  j - Foreign investors 9,939,708 1.64
  k - Others 182,375,499 30.07
Total 606,407,693 100
1 The figures of the Cueto Group’s stake in this table no longer consider 
the 21.88% stake held by the Amaro Group in Costa Verde Aeronáutica 
S.A., after the transfer of these shares to a new company, owned by 
Grupo Amaro, TEP Aeronáutica S.A.
2 Qatar owns 9.999999918% of total issued shares of LATAM.
3 The figures of the Amaro Group's stake in this table consider the 
addition of TEP Aeronáutica S.A.
Total: 606,407 ,693
subscribed and paid-in shares.MAIN SHAREHOLDERS1TOTAL SHARES %
  a - Cueto Group 86,012,057 14.18
 b - Qatar Airways260,640,768 10.00
 c -  Hirmas Group 1,488,971 0.25
  d - ADRs 25,266,673 4.17
  e - AFP s 141,957,014 23.41
  f - Foreign investors 65,507,452 10.80
 g - Others 225,534,758 37. 19
Total 606,407,693 100
1 At the end of 2019, the market was preparing to participate in Delta 
Airlines' public offering of shares, so it is possible that several shareholders 
had their shares in a broker to participate.
2 Qatar owns 9.999999918% of total issued shares of LATAM.Total:  606,407 ,693
subscribed and paid-in shares.a
b
c
defghijkSHAREHOLDER 
STRUCTURE 
(%)  102-10
a
b
c
d
efg
35
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance       Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsMain shareholders as at December 31, 2019
NAMESUBSCRIBED AND PAID-IN 
SHARES AT 12/30/2020%
Santander Corredores de Bolsa Limitada 97,716,892 16.1
Costa Verde Aeronáutica S.A. 67,878,651 11.2
Qatar Airways Investments (UK) Ltd.160,640,768 10.0
BCI Corredores de Bolsa S.A. 26,194,579 4.3
JP Morgan Chase Bank 25,266,673 4.2
Consorcio Corredores de Bolsa S.A. 24,966,247 4.1
Itaú Corredores de Bolsa Limitada 23,162,008 3.8
Banco Itaú Corpbanca por cuenta de inversionistas extranjeros 21,316,631 3.5
Banco Santander por cuenta de inversionistas extranjeros 21,033,689 3.5
Banchile Corredores de Bolsa S.A. 18,812,790 3.1
Inversiones Nueva Costa Verde Aeronautica Ltda. 18,133,406 3.0
All shares are part of the same series. LATAM has only one series of shares.
1 Qatar owns 9.999999918% of total issued shares of LATAM.Main shareholders as at December 31, 2020
NAMESUBSCRIBED AND PAID-IN 
SHARES AT 12/30/2020%
Delta Airlines Inc. 121,281,538 20.00%
Costa Verde Aeronáutica S.A. 82,376,937 13.58%
Qatar Airways Investments (UK) Ltd.160,640,768 10.00%
Banchile Corredores de Bolsa S.A. 53,835,781 8.88%
JP Morgan Chase Bank 53,057,983 8.75%
Santander Corredores de Bolsa Limitada 30,845,675 5.09%
TEP Aeronáutica S.A. 26,783,613 4,42%
BCI Corredores de Bolsa S.A. 19,042,479 3.14%
Inversiones Andes SpA 13,187,037 2.17%
Consorcio Corredores de Bolsa S.A. 12,502,262 2.06%
TEP Chile S.A. 12,009,257 1.98%
Costa Verde Aeronáutica SpA 9,228,949 1.52%
All shares are part of the same series. LATAM has only one series of shares.
1 Qatar owns 9.999999918% of total issued shares of LATAM.
[+] The Shareholder 
Agreement is in the Appendices .
36 Ownership structure
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance       Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsDividends
LATAM Airlines Group S.A. determined that the dividends 
should be equal to the minimum required by law; that is, 
equivalent to 30% of the profits, pursuant to the current 
regulation. This does not prevent dividends above said 
mandatory minimum from eventually being paid, depending 
on the particularities and circumstances that may arise 
throughout the year.
Dividends for the 2019 profits were not paid during 2020, as 
a result of the financial reorganization process.Investor relations
LATAM maintains an ongoing dialogue with its 
shareholders and other players of the capital market. On 
the Investor Relations website, which contains updated 
financial statements and quarterly reports, the group 
offers details on the corporate governance structure, and 
other relevant data to assist shareholders, investors, 
and market analysts in their decision-making process. 
All the stages of the restructuring plan under the US 
law’s Chapter 11 proceeding are also published on the 
site. The contents are available in English, Spanish, 
and Portuguese.
[+]  To learn more, please visit: 
latamairlinesgroup.net  y  
latamreorganizacion.com .
37 Ownership structure
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance       Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsFinancing policy
The scope of LATAM’s Financing Policy is to cover the 
Company’s financing needs, including the acquisition of fleet 
assets, such as aircraft and engines, financing non-fleet 
investments, and financing working capital.
During the year, within the context of the restructuring 
proceedings under Chapter 11 of the US Bankruptcy law that 
are ongoing, the Company obtained a Debtor In Possession 
financing for US$2.45 billion maturing on April 8, 2022. Of 
this sum, US$1.15 billion was drawn on October 8, 2020. 
Thus, the Company was able to support and strengthen the 
operation of LATAM and all its subsidiaries.
Moreover, the Company had, at the beginning of the period, a 
syndicated loan with 12 banks for US$600 million (Revolving 
Credit Facility – RCF). This line is guaranteed by a collateral 
consisting of aircraft, spare engines, and spare parts. During 
the year, as a result of the impact from the Covid pandemic, 
LATAM drew 100% of this line.Policies
This year, LATAM has reduced most of its recurring 
investments, which usually pertain to the fleet acquisition 
programs. Normally, LATAM finances between 70% and 
85% of the value of the assets through bank loans, 
covered bonds from export promotion agencies, or 
commercial loans, capital investments, or through its 
own funds. The payment schedules of the various aircraft 
financing structures are mostly for 12 years. Moreover, 
LATAM contracts a large percentage of its fleet purchase 
commitments through operating leases as an additional 
source of financing. 
During 2020, LATAM did not acquire new airplanes, and it 
has focused its resources on maintaining the operation and 
adjusting the size of the fleet in accordance with the current 
demand and the demand projected for the next few years, 
considering the effects of the pandemic on the industry. 
Therefore, and given the current restructuring process, 
LATAM has devoted significant efforts to reviewing its fleet 
contracts with the aim of restructuring them as well. One of the main objectives of the Financing Policy is to 
ensure a stable debt maturity and leasing commitment 
profile, including debt servicing and the payments on fleet 
leasing, which should be consistent with LATAM’s operating 
cash flow generation, considering the effect of the 
pandemic on the company.
Market risk policy
Given the nature of its operations, LATAM Airlines Group 
is subject to market risks, such as: (i) fuel price risk, (ii) 
interest rate risk, and (iii) exchange rate risk. In order to 
hedge fully or partially against these risks, LATAM uses 
financial derivatives to reduce the adverse effects that 
these risks could cause. Market Risk is managed integrally 
and considers the correlation with each market factor to 
which the Company is exposed. In order to operate with 
each counterpart, the Company must have an approved line 
and a framework signed with it.
 
38
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance       Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsFuel price risk : Variations in fuel prices depend significantly 
on oil supply and demand in the world, as well as on the 
decisions made by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting 
Countries (OPEC), the refining capacity worldwide, inventory 
levels, and the occurrence or absence of climatic phenomena 
or geopolitical factors. LATAM purchases aircraft fuel, known as 
Jet Fuel. In order to execute fuel hedges, there is a benchmark 
index on the international market for this core asset, which 
is Jet Fuel 54 US Gulf Coast. This index was mainly used by 
LATAM Airlines Group for its hedges during 2020. LATAM also 
undertook hedging through NYMEX Heating Oil, whose core 
index is included in the Fuel Risk Hedging Policy, given the high 
correlation between this core index and Jet Fuel 54.
The Fuel Hedging Policy sets a minimum and a maximum 
hedging range for the Company’s fuel consumption, based on 
the capacity to pass through fuel price variations to airfares, 
anticipated sales, and the competition scenario. Moreover, 
this Policy sets hedging zones, a premiums budget, and 
other strategic restrictions that are assessed and presented 
periodically before the LATAM Finance Committee.
With regard to fuel hedging instruments, the Policy makes it 
possible to contract combined Swaps and Options only for 
hedging purposes, and does not allow the net sale of options.
Interest rate risk on cash flows : Interest rate variations 
depend largely on the state of the global economy. An 
improvement in the long-term economic outlook pushes 
long-term rates upwards, whereas a drop causes a decline 
due to market effects.
However, considering government intervention, during periods 
of economic contraction, reference rates are usually cut in order to boost aggregate demand by making credit more 
affordable and increasing production (just as there are hikes in 
the reference rates during periods of economic expansion).
The uncertainty surrounding how the market and the 
governments will behave, and thus, how the interest rate 
will change, leads to a risk related to LATAM’s debt subject 
to variable interest, its investments, and the new issuances 
it may make. Interest rate risk on existing debt materializes 
in the impact on future cash flows related to financial 
instruments, given the interest rate fluctuations. Thus, a 
higher interest rate could translate into a higher cash flow 
from interest payments, and vice versa.
LATAM’s exposure to the risk from market interest rate 
fluctuations is mainly related to long-term obligations with 
variable rates.
In order to reduce the risk from an eventual hike in interest 
rates, LATAM Airlines Group can use interest rate swap 
contracts or other derivatives. These positions were closed 
in advance by the corresponding counterparts, once the 
company entered the Chapter 11 restructuring process.
Exchange rate risks : The functional currency used by the 
parent Company is the US dollar. There are two types of 
exchange risks: Cash flow and balance sheet risks. 
Cash flow risk is a consequence of the net revenue position 
and costs in currencies other than US dollars. LATAM sells 
most of its services in US dollars, in local currencies, and in 
prices indexed to the US dollar. In the international passenger 
business, most of the fares are linked to the US dollar and, to 
a lesser extent, the Euro. In the domestic businesses, most fares are in local currency without any sort of indexation to 
the US dollar, except for the domestic businesses of Peru and 
Ecuador, where both fares and sales are recorded in US dollars. 
On the other hand, a major part of the group’s expenses is 
denominated in US dollars or equivalent to the USD, particularly 
fuel costs, aviation taxes, aircraft leases, insurance, and 
aircraft components and accessories. Other expenses, such as 
compensation, are denominated in local currencies.
Thereby, LATAM is exposed to the fluctuations in various 
currencies, but mainly the Brazilian Real. LATAM Airlines 
Group has hedged against exchange rate risks involving 
the Brazilian Real mainly through forwards contracts and 
currency options during 2020. However, these positions were 
closed in advance by the corresponding counterparts, once 
the company entered the Chapter 11 restructuring process. 
Therefore, at December 31, 2020, LATAM had no active 
hedges for any currency.
On the other hand, balance sheet risks appear when 
entries in the balance sheet are exposed to exchange 
rate fluctuations, given that said entries are expressed in 
a currency unit other than the functional currency. While 
LATAM may sign hedging derivatives contracts to protect 
against the impact of a potential currency appreciation or 
depreciation vs. the functional currency used by the parent 
Company, during 2020, LATAM made no hedges against 
balance sheet risk.
The main mismatch factor is seen in TAM S.A., whose 
functional currency is the Brazilian Real, and as most of its 
liabilities are stated in US dollars; however, its assets are 
stated in local currency. At December 31, 2020, TAM S.A. ’s 
liabilities surpassed its assets by US$150 million.
39 Policies
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance       Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsFinancial policy
The Corporate Finance Department is responsible for 
managing the Company’s Financial Policy. This Policy makes 
it possible to effectively face changes in conditions outside 
the business’ normal operation and thus maintain and 
anticipate a stable flow of funds to ensure the operation’s 
continuity and fulfilment of the financial obligations.
Moreover, the Finance Committee, comprising the Vice-
Presidency and members of LATAM’s Board, meets 
periodically to review and propose to the Board the approval 
of issues that are not regulated by the Financial Policy. 
LATAM Airlines Group’s Financial Policy aims to achieve the 
following goals:
•  To preserve and maintain suitable cash flow levels to 
ensure the requirements of the operations, to support 
growth, and to fulfill the group’s financial obligations.
•  To maintain a suitable level of credit lines with local and 
foreign banks to gain access to additional liquidity to face 
contingencies.
•  To maintain an optimal debt level, diversify financing 
sources, manage the debt maturity profile, and minimize 
the cost of financing.
40 Policies
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance       Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      Credits•  Capitalize excess cash flow through financial investments 
that will guarantee a risk and liquidity level consistent with 
the Financial Investment Policy.
•  To reduce the effects of market risks, such as variations 
in fuel prices, exchange rates, and interest rates on the 
Company’s net margin and cash position.
•  To manage counterparty risk through the diversification and 
limits on investments and transactions with counterparties.
•  To maintain, at all times, a long-term visibility of the 
Company’s projected financial situation to anticipate 
situations of low liquidity, deterioration of the financial 
ratios agreed with rating agencies, etc.
•  The Financial Policy delivers guidelines and restrictions to 
manage Liquidity and Financial Investment transactions, 
Financing Activities, and Market Risk Management.Liquidity and financial investment policy
LATAM seeks to maintain a suitable liquidity position to 
safeguard from potential external shocks, and the volatility 
and cycles inherent to the industry. In this sense, it ended 
2019, as of December 31st, with suitable liquidity, and a 
19.7% liquidity ratio over total revenues earned in the last 12 
months. This liquidity considered cash at hand and short-
term liquid investments, in addition to a revolving credit 
facility (the “RCF”) for a total of US$600 million with 12 
financial institutions, both local and international. 
During 2020, as a result of the pandemic caused by 
Covid-19, the aviation industry in general was severely 
affected. Specifically, revenues from passengers decreased 
sharply, at the same time requests for refunds increased. To 
deal with the situation initially, LATAM drew the "RCF" in full 
between March and April. 
Later, on May 26, LATAM Airlines Group and some of its 
subsidiaries entered into the judicial proceeding under 
Chapter 11 of the US Bankruptcy Law. On July 9, LATAM 
Airlines Brazil and some of the group’s other affiliates joined 
the process as well. Within this process, LATAM obtained 
a financing known as Debtor In Possession, or DIP, whose hallmark is that it provides its creditors with priority of 
payment over the company’s other unsecured obligations. 
On October 8, 2020, LATAM closed the DIP, which has a 
committed facility worth US$2.45 billion with different 
investors. On that same day, it made its first draw of 
US$1.15 billion, whereby this facility was left with US$1.30 
billion committed and available to be withdrawn, based on 
the company’s needs. Measured as cash plus DIP available as 
a percentage of the total revenues for 2020, LATAM ended 
the year with a liquidity index of 68%.
With regard to the Financial Investment Policy, the goal is 
to centralize investment decisions to optimize profitability, 
adjusted for currency risk, subject to maintaining suitable 
security and liquidity levels. Moreover, the aim is to manage 
risk through the diversification of counterparties, maturities, 
currencies, and instruments. In terms of interest rates, 
2020 was a year globally marked by very low interest 
rates. Moreover, the Chapter 11 proceeding, paragraph 
345(b), regulates the holding of cash from companies 
under a restructuring process. In compliance with this norm, 
at the end of the year, LATAM held most of its deposits 
in depository banks authorized by the US Trustee of the 
Southern District of the New York Bankruptcy Court.
41 Policies
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance       Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      Credits42  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business       Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      Credits
OUR   
BUSINESS
[+] Other relevant information is 
available in the Appendices :
Regulatory framework ; Material facts .
1 According to report published in January 
2021: https://www.imf.org/en/Publications/
WEO/ Issues/2021/01/26/2021-world-eco -
nomic-outlook-update .Industry 
context
In order to analyze the economic environment in which the 
group operates, below we present a brief explanation of the 
situation and evolution of the main economies that affect it 
nationally, regionally, and worldwide.
Even though the economy is starting to leave behind the 
lower levels of activity that were seen in the first months 
of 2020, during the year, the Covid-19 pandemic has had a 
huge impact on the whole world. To protect people’s lives 
and enable the healthcare systems to deal with the situation, 
countries have resorted to isolation, confinement, and 
generalized shutdowns to contain the spread of the virus. 
This caused the growth of the global economy to slowdown 
throughout 2020.
Although the world growth forecast is subject to great 
uncertainty, for 2020, the International Monetary Fund 
(IMF)1 expects the global economy to contract 3.5%, 0.9 
percentage points higher than the previous estimate, given 
an improvement that took place in the second half of the 
year, before it was expected. The IMF is expecting global growth in 2021 to reach 5.5%, 0.3 percentage points higher 
than previously estimated, due to the same acceleration 
seen in late 2020, and positive expectations related to the 
vaccination process worldwide, together with additional fiscal 
relief announced by various governments.
For the US, the IMF estimated a 3.4% contraction for 2020 
and 5.1% growth for 2021 (2.0 percentage points more 
growth than previously expected for 2021). Likewise, 
the IMF’s transversal estimates for the European Union’s 
countries have dropped, with a 7 .2% contraction in 2020 and 
4.2% growth in 2021 (1.0 percentage point less of growth 
than formerly expected for 2021).
On the other hand, it estimated a 7 .4% contraction for the 
Latin American economy in 2020, and 4.1% growth for 
2021, 0.5 percentage points more growth compared to 
the previous IMF estimates for 2021. Brazil’s economy is 
expected to grow 3.6% in 2021, and as for Chile, the Central 
Bank expects the economy to expand between 5.5% and 
6.5% in 2021.
43
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business       Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsFinancial 
results
At December 31, 2020, the controller reported a negative 
result of ThUS$4,545,887, translating into a negative 
variation of ThUS$4,736,317 compared to the ThUS$190,430 
profit from the previous year. Net margin went from 1.8% in 
2019 to -104.9% during 2020.
Operating result for 2020 totaled a loss of ThUS$1,665,288 
which, compared to the ThUS$741,602 profit as at 
December 31, 2019, shows a negative variation equivalent 
to 324.6%, whereas operating margin reached -38.4%, 45.5 
percentage points below the figures for 2019.
Operating revenues for the twelve months of 2020 
decreased by 58.4% compared to 2019, settling at 
ThUS$4,334,669. This decrease is largely due to a 69.9% 
drop in Passenger revenues; on the other hand, Cargo 
revenues and the Other revenues item increased by 13.7% 
and 13.9%, respectively. The effect of the Brazilian real’s 
depreciation represents lower ordinary revenues worth 
around US$360 million.In June 2020, LATAM Airlines Argentina S.A. ’s operations were 
indefinitely suspended, due to the conditions of the local 
industry, worsened by the Covid-19 pandemic, whereby 12 
destinations are no longer operated. By the end of 2019, 
LATAM Airlines Argentina S.A. reported US$229 million in its 
individual Operating revenue results.
Passenger revenues totaled ThUS$2,713,774 which, 
compared to the ThUS$9,005,629 of the twelve months 
of 2019, represents a 69.9% decrease. This variation is 
mainly due to the 62.7% drop in capacity measured in ASK, 
as well as an 18.8% decrease in RASK, as a result of a 7 
percentage-point decrease in load factor, together with 
a 12% drop in yields compared to the previous year. The 
drop in load factor is explained by the implementation of 
quarantines, travel restrictions, and lower demand as a 
result of the Covid-19 outbreak.
At December 31, 2020, Cargo revenues totaled 
ThUS$1,209,893, which translates into a 13.7% increase 
from 2019, despite the 12.7% drop in traffic measured 
in RTK and a 25.9% decline in capacity measured in ATK. 
Yields increased 30.2%, mainly driven by the change in the 
competitive scene, due to the Covid-19 crisis. Moreover, 
passenger plane cabins were refurbished for cargo 
transportation, and the frequencies and destinations of 
cargo flights were increased.
The Other income line item shows an increase of 
ThUS$50,138, mainly due to ThUS$62,000 received as 
compensation from Delta Air Lines Inc. for the cancellation of four A350 aircrafts and ThUS$9,240 from the 
anticipated return of planes leased to Qatar Airways, both 
in the second half of 2020.
At December 31, 2020, Operating costs totaled 
ThUS$5,999,957 which, compared to 2019, translate into 
ThUS$3,689,368 lower costs, equivalent to a 38.1% drop, 
whereas unit cost per ASK increased by 65.8%. Furthermore, 
the effect of the Brazilian Real’s depreciation on this line 
item translates into lower costs by roughly US$440 million. 
Item variations are explained as follows:
a) Compensations and benefits decreased by ThUS$832,702 
due to the voluntary salary reduction, agreed upon in March, 
for over 90% of the employees. This resulted in around 
US$130 million in savings, together with the drop in the 
average provision and the depreciation of local currencies, 
particularly the Brazilian real and the Chilean peso.
b) Fuel decreased by 64.3% equivalent to ThUS$1,883,665. 
This drop is mainly the result of a 22.8% reduction in 
unhedged prices, and a 53.9% decrease in consumption 
measured in gallons. During 2020, the company reported 
a loss of ThUS$14,316 from fuel hedges, compared to the 
ThUS$23,110 loss from the twelve months of 2019.
c) Commissions present a ThUS$129,974 decrease as a 
result of the drop in passenger traffic.
d) Depreciation and Amortization declined by ThUS$80,590 
at December 31, 2020. This variation is mainly explained 
44
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business       Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      Credits Argentina: 20%
 Brazil: 33%
  Chile: 10%
 Colombia: 13%
 Ecuador: 5%
  Peru: 19%  
Total: US$855,649,857Indirect economic 
impact—economic 
contribution generated 
by passengers 203-1
20
33
1013519
1 Sources consulted:  
yvera.tur.ar
dadosefatos.turismo.gov.br
subturismo.gob.cl
banrep.gov.co
turismo.gob.ec
promperu.gob.peIn 2020, LATAM transported 
nearly 855.3 thousand 
passengers on international 
flights to South America. 
Based on the average spend 
per tourist reported by 
the tourism and statistics 
agencies1 in Argentina, Brazil, 
Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, and 
Peru, travelers contributed 
US$855.7 million to the 
economies of the region.by the drop in maintenance depreciation, as a result of the 
decrease in flight hours of the passenger fleet during the last 
nine months of 2020. 
e) Other Leases and Landing Fees decreased by 
ThUS$555,854, mainly in airport and handling service fees, 
impacted by the decreased operation.
f) Passenger Services decreased by ThUS$163,642, 
translating into a 62.6% variation, mainly explained by a 
61,9% reduction in the number of passengers. 
g) Maintenance costs increased by ThUS$27,771, equivalent 
to a 6.2% rise. Despite the decrease in operation, during 
the last months of 2020, necessary costs were incurred for 
the preservation of the grounded aircraft. In addition, in the 
fourth quarter, the values of commitments from scheduled 
returns of leased aircrafts were updated.
h) Other Operating Costs show a decrease of ThUS$70,712, 
mainly due to lower crew costs and reservations systems as 
a result of the decreased operations and demand.
45 Financial results
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business       Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsMAIN INDICATORS 102-7 201812019 2020
Financial (US$ thousand)
Operating income 10,368,214 10,430,927 4,334,668
Operating expenses (9,663,095) (9,689,325) (5,999,957)
Operating result 886,984 741,602 -1,665,289
Operating Margin 8.8% 7. 1% -38.4%
Net Profit 181,935 190,430 -4,545,887
Net Margin 1.8% 1.8% -104.9%
EBITDA 2,259,612 2,211,578 -275,903
EBITDA Margin 21.8% 21.2% -6.4%
Cash and cash equivalents2/revenues last 12 months 19.3% 19.7% 39.0%
Leveraging 3 3.9x 4.0x NM
Operations
Passenger Operations
Capacity (ASK)—million 143,265 149,116 55,718
Consolidated traffic (RPK)—million 119,077 124,521 42,624
Load factor (ASK) 83.1% 83.5% 76.5%
Revenue/ASK (US$ cents) 6.1 6.5 4.9
Total PAX transported (thousands) 68,806 74,189 28,299
Cargo Operations
Capacity (ATK)—million 6,498 6,357 4,708
Consolidated traffic (RPK)—million 3,583 3,526 3,078
Load factor (ATK) 55.1% 55.5% 65.4%
Revenue/ATK (US$ cents) 18.3 17. 1 25.7
Tons transported (thousands) 921 903.8 785.0SNAPSHOT
1 2018 values have been restated in observance of the 2016 International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS).
2 Includes the revolving credit facility.
3 Adjusted net debt/EBITDAR (last 12 months).
NM: not meaningful.
46 Financial results
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business       Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsVOLUMES TRADED BY QUARTER—LOCAL STOCK (SANTIAGO 
STOCK EXCHANGE)
2020N° OF SHARES 
TRADEDA VERAGE 
PRICE (CLP)TOTAL V ALUE 
(MILLION CLP)
First 
quarter77,877,242 4,437 .42 345,574.22 
Second 
quarter488,890,208 1,535.04 750,464.40 
Third 
quarter72,951,392 1,264.02 92,211.73 
Fourth 
quarter30,303,763 1,220.17 36,975.86 
VOLUMES TRADED BY QUARTER—ADR
2020N° OF SHARES 
TRADEDA VERAGE 
PRICE (CLP)TOTAL V ALUE 
(MILLION CLP)
First 
quarter85,039,681 5.82 397,141.56
Second 
quarter599,335,086 2.12 1,036,566.93
Third 
quarter31,326,685 1.56 37,878.90
Fourth 
quarter10,251,935 1.68 12,615.68Stock 
information
LATAM Airlines Group S.A. is an open Joint Stock 
Corporation registered before the Financial Market 
Commission under no. 306, whose shares are traded on 
the Chilean Electronic Exchange—Stock market, and the 
Santiago Stock Exchange in Chile. As a result of filing 
for Chapter 11 protection, LATAM was delisted from the 
NYSE on June 10. Since then, LATAM’s ADRs are traded in 
the United States of America on the OTC markets.
The ADR’s price series (and annual return) consider the 
ADR prices on the NYSE and later, on the OTC market.ANNUAL RETURN
-83.17% 16.26% -83.22% -10.55%
ADR S&PX Index Local stock IPSA Index
 ADR (USD)          S&P 500 (points) Local share (CLP)         S&P IPSA (points)     6,0007,0008,0009,000
5,000
4,000
3,000
2,000
01,000
01/2020 02/2020 03/2020 04/2020 05/2020 06/2020 07 /2020 08/2020 09/2020 10/2020 11/2020 12/20206.000
5.000
4.000
3.000
2.000
01.000
4,000
3,500
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,0001,500
500
0
01/2020 02/2020 03/2020 04/2020 05/2020 06/2020 07 /2020 08/2020 09/2020 10/2020 11/2020 12/202012.0
10.0
8.0
6.0
4.0
2.0
0Local share – 2020
ADR – 202012/2019
12/2019
47
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business       Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsLATAM’s risk management is based on the guidelines of the 
Corporate Risk Policy, which defines the main aspects to be 
monitored, the mitigation instruments, action plans, and the 
roles and responsibilities of those involved in the process. By 
late 2020, the Risks and Internal Audit areas came together 
under the Audit and Internal Control Directorate, which reports 
directly to the Directors’ Committee.
In the year, the risk matrix, which considers the likelihood of 
incidence against the risk’s potential impact on the operation, 
comprised 55 transversal and emerging risks, distributed 
among 14 categories (financial, environmental, operational, 
safety, and regulatory, among others). Specific areas, such as 
Procurement and Safety, have their own matrixes.
Among the emerging risks identified are cybersecurity and 
the slow recovery of the aviation industry as a result of the 
pandemic and possible resurgences of Covid-19. Agility
To vest the decision-making process with greater speed and 
assertiveness in this pandemic period and given the drafting of 
LATAM’s reorganization plan, the group increased the frequency 
of the meetings with leaders and vice-presidents of the various 
areas. The Risk Board was temporarily suspended and will be 
reactivated in 2021. It will contain the lessons learned under the 
new format, including scenarios where various risks materialize 
simultaneously and the analysis of the related impacts.
In 2020, the updating of the LATAM risk map began, with 
the participation of all the vice-presidencies. The process 
will be completed in 2021, and includes an analysis of the 
effectiveness of the action plans set in motion in 2020.
Information security
Information security is a strategic issue for LATAM group: it 
represents a reputational risk and it may cause significant 
financial losses. The Information Security Management, linked 
to the Information Technology Directorate, is responsible for 
the processes, tools, and policies, in a coordinated task with 
other teams. The topic is also discussed by a committee 
dedicated to analyzing technological risks, comprised by 
representatives from different areas: Internal Control, Legal 
Affairs and Compliance, among others.
The ongoing improvement of protection mechanisms was 
fundamental in 2020 when, despite an increase recorded 
in the number of attempted cyberattacks, there were no 
significant breaches of customer data.Risk 
management
[+] The full list 
of the main risk 
factors is in the 
Appendix  section.PCI DSS 
Certification
LATAM received the 
recertification pursuant to the 
PCI DSS international standard, 
a benchmark in the payment 
channel industry, that certifies 
that the group has all the controls 
to protect the data of credit and 
debit card holders and reduce/
prevent related frauds. The process 
expanded the scope of the previous 
certification, with the inclusion of 
LATAM’s digital platform and of the 
Brazilian operation of the frequent 
flyer program.
48
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business       Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsAdditional information
Aviation insurance: LATAM has Aviation, Hull, and Legal 
Liability Insurance, which covers all risks inherent to 
commercial aviation, such as the loss or damage of aircraft, 
engines, spare parts, and third-party liability (passengers, 
cargo, baggage, airports, etc.).
After the association between LAN and TAM, LATAM group’s 
insurance is jointly managed with IAG (which comprises 
British Airways, Iberia and its subsidiaries, and franchisees).
The increase in business volumes translated into better 
coverage and lower operating costs.
General insurance:  covering various risks that could affect 
the company’s equity, which is protected by a multi-risk 
insurance (including risk of fire, theft, information equipment, 
security remittances, and others, based on the coverage of 
all risks), car insurance, air and maritime transport insurance, 
and civil liability insurance. Moreover, the company has life 
and accident insurance contracts covering its staff.
Customers:  none of LATAM’s clients individually represents 
over 10% of its sales.General Data  
Protection Law
Since September 2020, the General Data Protection 
Law (LGPD for its Spanish acronym) has been in place 
in Brazil, with the guidelines that should guide the 
companies and other agents regarding the handling of 
personal data from clients, employees, suppliers, and 
other stakeholders.
With the support of the Information Security area, 
LATAM Airlines Brazil adapted its processes to guarantee 
compliance with the law and its alignment with the 
best practices.Suppliers:  in 2020, eight suppliers individually represented 
over 10% of their category: Orbital and Acciona Airports 
Americas SpA (airport), Unilode Aviation Solutions (local 
administration), Gate Gourmet (supply), Kuehne Nagel 
(transportation), Google Inc. and Facebook (Marketing), Hotel 
Miami BL Partners (hotels), CAE (employee services), and 
Everfit S.A. (uniforms).
Trademarks and patents:  the group uses various 
trademarks, which are duly registered before the relevant 
bodies in the various countries where they carry out their 
operations or which are their origin and/or destination, in 
order to distinguish and market their products and services 
in said country. Among the main brands are: LATAM 
Airlines, LATAM Airlines Brazil, LATAM Airlines Chile, LATAM 
Airlines Colombia, LATAM Airlines Ecuador, LATAM Airlines 
Peru, LATAM Cargo, LATAM PASS, and LATAM Travel, to 
name a few.  102-2
49 Risk management
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business       Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsInvestment 
plan
LATAM’s capital expenditures are related to the acquisition of 
aircraft, aircraft-related equipment, IT equipment, support 
infrastructure, and the funding of pre-delivery deposits. 
LATAM’s capital expenditures totaled US$324.3 million in 
2020, US$1.27 billion in 2019 and US$660.7 million in 2018, 
and purchases of intangible assets totaled US$140.2 million 
in 2019, US$96.2 million in 2018 and US$87 .3 million in 2017 .
The following chart sets forth the Company’s estimated 
capital expenditures for 2021, which are subject to change 
and may differ from the actual capital expenditures.ESTIMATED CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (MMUS$) 2021
Fleet commitments1773
PDPs2259
Other expenditures3822
1 The amount of Fleet Commitments presented includes all the com -
mitted deliveries with estimates regarding (i) changes in scheduled 
delivery dates; (ii) conversion of certain aircraft types; and (iii) aircraft 
for which we do not expect to take delivery, regardless of the financing 
arrangement upon arrival, thus representing the sum of aircraft capex 
and future sale and leasebacks.
2 Represents pre-delivery payments (PDPs) made by LATAM, or inflows 
received by LATAM after the delivery of the aircraft is made. All unpaid 
PDPs are assumed to be payable during 2021.
3 Other Expenditures include estimates of capital expenditures on 
spare engines and parts, maintenance of on balance fleet, projects, and 
others, plus purchases of intangible assets.At this time, LATAM is not able to fully determine the 
adjusted levels of estimated capital expenditures in light 
of the lower demand for air travel. The actual amount and 
timing of future capital expenditures may be materially 
lower than the Company’s estimates as a result of the 
impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on demand for air travel in 
the regions where LATAM operates.
50
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business       Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsIntegrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability       
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      Credits
SUSTAINABILITY
51The LATAM Corporate Sustainability Policy is based on 
the principles that should guide executives in defining and 
executing the strategies and initiatives for sustainable 
development, strengthening the risk management and 
accountability processes. Its contents are aligned with 
various external standards, commitments, and principles, 
such as the United Nations’ Global Compact and the 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), the Guiding 
Principles on Companies and Human Rights, and the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI).
The document is the basis for the Board and Executive 
Committee to make decisions regarding the sustainability 
issues. In 2020, sustainability became one of the five 
priorities for LATAM, after a thorough analysis of its way of 
generating value and relating with its stakeholders. Changes 
in the industry and the growing social and environmental 
challenges worldwide supported this analysis, together with 
LATAM’s commitment for the future.This ongoing process, seeks to strengthen the links with 
clients, employees, suppliers, communities, sectoral 
and civil society organizations, public organizations and 
regulatory bodies. For this purpose, LATAM has encouraged 
dialogues with external stakeholders, such as specialists 
and representatives of non-government organizations in the 
five countries where it has domestic operations, with the 
participation of the group’s CEO and VPs.
Within this framework, LATAM reviewed its sustainability 
strategy focused on growing sustainably in the long term 
and generating and sharing value with all its stakeholders. In 
addition to expanding the positive impacts on society, the 
new guidelines have the potential to generate a competitive 
advantage for the group and consolidate it as a relevant asset 
in all the communities where it operates.
The strategy was approved by the Board at yearend and will 
be launched in 2021, when the goals and concrete initiatives 
to meet such goals will be disclosed.Dow Jones Sustainability Index
LATAM uses the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), one of 
the main standards to evaluate organizations’ performance 
in terms of sustainability, as an internal management, 
measurement, and benchmark tool. Annually, the DJSI selects 
publicly-traded companies with the best performance in 
financial-economic, social, environmental, governance & 
compliance, and customer relations topics, and lists them in 
various indices.
For six consecutive years, the group was selected as one of 
the most sustainable in the world, being included in the World 
index. In 2020, despite having performed well (see graphs), 
LATAM was not included in the list of selected companies 
because the index excludes companies undergoing a financial 
restructuring process. Nonetheless, the group will continue 
to use the result of the analysis as a guideline to implement 
improvements in its processes.Strategy and 
commitments 102-9 and 102-12
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability       
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      Credits
5280
60
40
20100Economic dimension Social dimension
 LATAM   Industry averageEnvironmental dimension
80
60
40
20100100
80
2060
40
Financial Times Stock Exchange (FTSE)
For the second consecutive year, LATAM was included in the FTSE4Good, which comprises the series of indices of 
the London stock market’s Financial Times Stock Exchange (FTSE). The FTSE4Good evaluates close to 300 indicators 
related to environmental, social, and corporate governance topics. It was created in 2001, through the alliance formed 
by the FTSE, the United Nations’ Children’s Fund (Unicef), and the Ethical Investment Research Service (EIRIS), and 
it lends support to the decision-making of members of the financial markets interested in investing in organizations 
committed to sustainability.Environmental 
reporting
Environmental 
policy and 
management 
systems
Operational  
eco-efficiencyClimate 
strategyCorporate 
governance
Materiality Reliability
Privacy 
Protection
Policy influenceFleet 
management
Information 
Security/
Cybersecurity 
& System 
AvailabilityCustomer relationship 
managementRisk and crisis 
management
Codes of business 
conduct
Supply chain 
managementBrand 
managementEfficiencyCorporate 
citizenship and 
philanthropyPassenger 
safety
Human 
rights 
Talent 
attraction 
and retentionHuman 
capital 
developmentLabor 
practice 
indicatorsSocial 
reporting
53 Strategy and commitments
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability       
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsAlignment with the SDGs
The group maintains its commitment to the UN’s Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDG), since the launch of the global 
agenda in 2015, and in 2019, it selected the SDGs and goals 
that are most related to its activities and the business’ 
strategic guidelines. 
Below, we present the main initiatives that LATAM advanced 
in 2020, and that contribute to the achievement of 22 of the 
169 goals in the covenant.7 .2 Increase the share of renewable 
energy within the global energy gridAffordable and 
clean energy• Support and monitor the agenda that seeks to foster 
the production of fuels with a lower environmental im -
pact, such as biofuels or green hydrogen (page 65)
Industry, 
innovation, and 
infrastructure9. Modernize infrastructure and make 
industries sustainable (more efficient 
and with clean technologies and indus -
trial processes)• LATAM Fuel efficiency program, to optimize jet fuel 
consumption, reducing the operation’s environmental 
impacts (page 63)8.4 Improve the efficiency of global re -
sources and decouple economic growth 
from environmental degradationDecent work 
and economic 
growth • Focus on value generation for all stakeholders 
(page 52)
• Decent work practices and commitment to salary 
equality (page 77)
• Matrix of risks related to human rights, applied by 
the operations and sponsoring action plans (page 56)8.7 Eradicate bonded labor, contem -
porary slavery, human trafficking, and 
eliminate child labor
8.8 Protect labor rights and foster safe 
work environmentss
1 The wording of the goals has been edited; the full sentence 
is available at: https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/
sustainable-development-goals/ GOAL FOR 20301 LATAM INITIATIVE48
17 ICONS: COLOUR VERSIONICONS
When an icon is on a square, that square must be proportional 1 x 1.
The white icon should be contained by its defined colour, or black 
background.
Do not alter the colours of the SDG icons.ICONS
NO 
POVERTYZEROHUNGERGOOD HEALTHAND WELL-BEINGQUALITYEDUCATIONGENDEREQUALITYCLEAN WATERAND SANITATION
AFFORDABLE AND 
CLEAN ENERGYDECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTHINDUSTRY, INNOVATIONAND INFRASTRUCTUREREDUCEDINEQUALITIESSUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIESRESPONSIBLECONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION
LIFE ON  LANDPEACE, JUSTICEAND STRONGINSTITUTIONSCLIMATEACTIONLIFE BELOW WATERPARTNERSHIPSFOR THE GOALS48
17 ICONS: COLOUR VERSIONICONS
When an icon is on a square, that square must be proportional 1 x 1.
The white icon should be contained by its defined colour, or black 
background.
Do not alter the colours of the SDG icons.ICONS
NO POVERTYZEROHUNGERGOOD HEALTHAND WELL-BEINGQUALITYEDUCATIONGENDEREQUALITYCLEAN WATERAND SANITATION
AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY
DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH INDUSTRY, INNOVATIONAND INFRASTRUCTUREREDUCEDINEQUALITIESSUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIESRESPONSIBLECONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION
LIFE ON  LANDPEACE, JUSTICEAND STRONGINSTITUTIONSCLIMATEACTIONLIFE BELOW WATERPARTNERSHIPSFOR THE GOALS
48
17 ICONS: COLOUR VERSIONICONS
When an icon is on a square, that square must be proportional 1 x 1.
The white icon should be contained by its defined colour, or black 
background.
Do not alter the colours of the SDG icons.ICONS
NO POVERTYZEROHUNGERGOOD HEALTHAND WELL-BEINGQUALITYEDUCATIONGENDEREQUALITYCLEAN WATERAND SANITATION
AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGYDECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH
INDUSTRY, INNOVATIONAND INFRASTRUCTURE REDUCEDINEQUALITIESSUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIESRESPONSIBLECONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION
LIFE ON  LANDPEACE, JUSTICEAND STRONGINSTITUTIONSCLIMATEACTIONLIFE BELOW WATERPARTNERSHIPSFOR THE GOALS
54 Strategy and commitments
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability       
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      Credits12.4 Chemical product and waste ma -
nagement throughout their lifecycle
12.5 Reduce waste generation GOAL FOR 20301 LATAM INITIATIVE
12.2 Sustainable management and 
efficient use of natural resourcesResponsible 
production and 
consumption • Reduction and offset of GHG emissions; proper waste 
management and rational use of natural resources 
(pages 62 to 69)
Climate action 13.1 Resilience and ability to adapt to 
climate change
13.2 Incorporate measures related to 
climate change into national policies, 
strategies, and plans
13.3 Improve education, sensitization, 
and human and institutional capacity 
regarding climate change• Identification of related risks and opportunities 
(page 65)
• Adhesion to sectoral initiatives (page 63)
• Efficient use of jet fuel (page 63)
• GHG emissions offset (page 66)
Life on land 15.5 Reduce the degradation of natu -
ral habitats, halt the loss of biodiversi -
ty; protect and prevent the extinction 
of threatened species• Solidary Plane program – Environment (page 57)
1 The wording of the goals has been edited; the full sentence 
is available at: https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/
sustainable-development-goals/48
17 ICONS: COLOUR VERSIONICONS
When an icon is on a square, that square must be proportional 1 x 1.
The white icon should be contained by its defined colour, or black 
background.
Do not alter the colours of the SDG icons.ICONS
NO 
POVERTYZEROHUNGERGOOD HEALTHAND WELL-BEINGQUALITYEDUCATIONGENDEREQUALITYCLEAN WATERAND SANITATION
AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGYDECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTHINDUSTRY, INNOVATIONAND INFRASTRUCTUREREDUCEDINEQUALITIESSUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES
RESPONSIBLE
CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION
LIFE ON  LANDPEACE, JUSTICEAND STRONGINSTITUTIONSCLIMATEACTIONLIFE BELOW WATERPARTNERSHIPSFOR THE GOALS48
17 ICONS: COLOUR VERSIONICONS
When an icon is on a square, that square must be proportional 1 x 1.
The white icon should be contained by its defined colour, or black 
background.
Do not alter the colours of the SDG icons.ICONS
NO POVERTYZEROHUNGERGOOD HEALTHAND WELL-BEINGQUALITYEDUCATIONGENDEREQUALITYCLEAN WATERAND SANITATION
AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGYDECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTHINDUSTRY, INNOVATIONAND INFRASTRUCTUREREDUCEDINEQUALITIESSUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIESRESPONSIBLECONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION
LIFE ON  LANDPEACE, JUSTICEAND STRONGINSTITUTIONS
CLIMATEACTION LIFE BELOW WATERPARTNERSHIPSFOR THE GOALS48
17 ICONS: COLOUR VERSIONICONS
When an icon is on a square, that square must be proportional 1 x 1.
The white icon should be contained by its defined colour, or black 
background.
Do not alter the colours of the SDG icons.ICONS
NO POVERTYZEROHUNGERGOOD HEALTHAND WELL-BEINGQUALITYEDUCATIONGENDEREQUALITYCLEAN WATERAND SANITATION
AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGYDECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTHINDUSTRY, INNOVATIONAND INFRASTRUCTUREREDUCEDINEQUALITIESSUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIESRESPONSIBLECONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION
LIFE ON  LAND PEACE, JUSTICEAND STRONGINSTITUTIONSCLIMATEACTIONLIFE BELOW WATERPARTNERSHIPSFOR THE GOALS
55 Strategy and commitments
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability       
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsHuman rights
In its Human Rights Commitment Declaration, LATAM defines 
the guidelines for action in its operations and relations, such 
as rejection of child labor, bonded labor, and slave labor, and 
situations of moral, physical, and sexual harassment; and 
the commitment to union freedom, to health and safety, to 
fair compensation and adequate work conditions, regardless 
of gender, race, age, sexual orientation, or nationality. 
The document, drafted in observance of the international 
standards, such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 
the United Nations Charter, and the Fundamental Principles 
and Rights at Work of the World Trade Organization (WTO), 
also includes the consequences established in case of any 
breach of these principles.
To manage this, LATAM is identifying and classifying, based on 
impact and likelihood of occurrence, risks related to human 
rights throughout the operation. This work began in Peru, with 
the creation of a risk matrix, the definition of priorities, and the 
establishment of plans of action. The document is available at 
https://www.latamairlinesgroup.net/
system/files-encrypted/nasdaq_
kms/ assets/2019/07 /18/16-31-44/
Declaration%20of%20Human%20
Rights.pdf.One of the measures adopted by LATAM Airlines Peru was 
the creation of a committee to deal specifically with the 
issue of harassment. This is a committee of peers, and 
has representatives appointed by management and by the 
employees. They also held talks to generate awareness among 
the leaders of the commercial area. This work was interrupted 
due to the pandemic, and should be resumed in 2021, adding 
other teams. 
In 2020, the methodology allowed for the creation of a risk 
matrix on Human Rights in LATAM Airlines Ecuador and LATAM 
Airlines Colombia. The work will be extended to the operations 
in Brazil and Chile in 2021.
56 Strategy and commitments
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability       
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsThrough the Solidary Plane program, LATAM offers its 
services and the structure, connectivity, and capacity of both 
its business lines (cargo and passengers) free of charge to 
society. The program is enhanced through agreements with 
various organizations, foundations, and government agencies, 
and it represents one of the main contributions that the 
company can make.There are three lines of action:
•  Health : the company has unique characteristics in the 
region that enable it to offer solutions to the communities 
to address various health needs, by either transporting 
passengers, health professionals, or medical materials, or 
connecting a diseased person with a donor, transporting 
organs, tissues, and stem cells, which allows others to get 
a second chance at life.
•  Environment : transporting scientists and members of 
environmental NGOs, traveling for professional reasons, 
such as research, or transporting animals in vital risk, 
danger of extinction, or that need rehabilitation. Moreover, 
the program transports waste materials from remote areas 
to destinations where they can be recycled.Solidary Plane 
programIn order to add value to the South American 
community through LATAM group’s expertise 
the Solidary Plane offers its air transportation 
services, free of charge, to benefit society 
when it needs it most.
•  Natural disasters : transporting affected victims, 
professionals in offering support after the catastrophe, 
and humanitarian aid in case of floods, fires, earthquakes, 
tsunamis, mudslides, or volcano eruptions.
The Solidary Plan has been in existence since 2012, and 
in 2020, it was active in the five countries where LATAM’s 
affiliates have domestic operations: Brazil, Chile, Colombia, 
Ecuador, and Peru.
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability       
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      Credits
57SOLIDARY PLANE  203-1
Transport of 
humanitarian aid  
(129.2 t ) for the victims 
of hurricane Iota.
In 2021, LATAM 
group placed itself at 
the disposal of the 
governments to distribute, 
free of cost, the vaccines 
in the countries where 
it has regular domestic 
flights.
ChileEquadorColombiaSan Andres ProvidenciaSanta Catalina
Easter Island ArgentinaBrazil Germany Europe
Peru1,374  
tickets donated   
(health professionals 
fighting Covid-19, 
patients of other 
diseases for treatments, 
surgery, and others).
Support for the 
animal rescue 
actions during the 
fires in Pantanal, 
Brazil.For the first time, a 
LATAM cargo plane 
transported stem 
cells from a donor 
in Germany, saving 
the life of a girl 
in Chile.In the year, there 
were eight transfers, 
covering routes 
from Europe to 
Chile, from Chile to 
Europe, and from 
Brazil to Argentina.395.5 tons   
of medical 
materials 
transported.
Transported 143.5 tons . 
Including: recyclable 
materials from Easter 
Island (Chile) and the San 
Andres Island (Colombia), 
and 4 animals  rescued in 
Brazil and Chile.SOLIDARY PLANE ENVIRONMENT
Transport of 392kg of 
fodder, 20kg of tilapia 
skins for treating burns, 
206 crates for animal 
transportation.SOLIDARY PLANE COVID-19
58 Solidary Plane
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governanc      Our business      Sustainability       
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsFlights that cannot wait
In April, during the height of the Covid-19 infections in South 
America and amid the shutdown of borders for passengers, 
the LATAM Solidary Plane spread its wings to transport, 
from Frankfurt (Germany) to Santiago (Chile), stem cells so 
that a 9-year-old girl with leukemia could receive stem cells 
to keep fighting her disease. This milestone is within the 
framework of the LATAM alliance with Fundación DKMS, an 
organization that has a bone marrow donors bank worldwide.
The flight was planned by a multidisciplinary team 
comprising over 30 people. The whole crew was trained 
following international protocols for the transport and 
handling of stem cells. The pilot of the flight was responsible 
for ensuring the preservation of the genetic material.
During the year, there were nine transfers of stem cells that 
gave a second chance at life to patients with cancer in Chile, 
Argentina, and Europe.Dealing with health needs
In 2020, the Solidary Plane program transported doctors and other health 
professionals to different locations in South America to serve the needs 
related to Covid-19 and other diseases. In total, 1,374 tickets were donated 
for doctors and patients.
In Brazil, 1,165 organs and tissues were transported thanks to the alliance 
between LATAM Airlines Brazil and the Health Ministry, formed in 2013. By 
yearend 2020, LATAM Airlines Group signed a cooperation agreement with the 
Health Ministry in Chile. In the future, the airline hopes to complete similar 
alliances in the other countries where it operates.
Transport of recyclable materials
LATAM group transports recyclable materials from Easter Island, six hours 
away by plane from Santiago (Chile), and from the San Andres archipelago, 
in the Colombian Caribbean. This action is a contribution to the local waste 
management in vulnerable habitats.
Due to the cancellation of passenger flights to Easter Island as a result of 
the pandemic, the initiative was interrupted. Through LATAM Cargo, which 
guaranteed supplies for isolated regions during the pandemic (read more on 
page 25), it was possible to continue transporting the recycled materials. 
The revenues generated through the commercialization of the recyclables are 
reinvested in environmental preservation projects on the Island.
Overall, during 2020, the Solidary Plane focused on the environment 
transported 143.5 tons, including recyclables and rescued animals.
59 Solidary Plane
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability       
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsHurricane Iota: humanitarian aid for San Andres
In mid-November, the Colombian archipelago of San Andres, 
Providencia, and Santa Catalina was severely affected by category 
5 Hurricane Iota. Thanks to the Solidary Plane and the commitment 
of the LATAM teams, over 70 tons, including food, water, and 
facemasks, were transported on three flights, made by a LATAM 
Cargo Boeing 767 plane, and by two LATAM Airlines Colombia Airbus 
A320 planes. The passenger cabins on the Airbus planes were 
adapted for transporting cargo.
The materials were gathered by Fundación Pro-Archipiélago and by 
the Colombian National Disaster Risk Management Unit. This was 
the first time that a cargo plane landed on the island.
Fighting the fires in the Brazilian Pantanal
The Solidary Plane program was also activated to fight the forest 
fires that affected the Brazilian Pantanal in mid-2020. Through the 
alliance signed with NGO Ampara Animal/Ampara Silvestre, which 
coordinated the Pantanal en Llamas campaign  (Pantanal on Fire), 
LATAM took to the region 392 kilos of animal feed and 20 kg of 
tilapia skins, used to treat burns, and 206 animal transport crates.
This region is considered natural world heritage by Unesco (United 
Nations Education, Science, and Culture Organization). Pantanal is 
the largest marshland in the world, rich in plant and animal life, and 
is the home to animals in danger of extinction, including the jaguar.
The transport of animals to sanctuaries—Animal Rescue 
program—is a regular activity for the Solidary Plane, focused on the 
environment. In 2020, four animals were transported.SOLIDARY PLANE 2018 2019 2020
Health
Air tickets donated 4,606 4,149 1,374
Organs, tissues, and stem cells transported 598 807 1,174
Medical materials (t) –Covid-19 NA NA 395.5
Natural disasters
Cargo transported as humanitarian aid (t) 16 87 524.7
Environment
Animals transported 25 93
143.5
Recyclable materials and animals transported (t)1170 204
NA: information not available.
1 Since 2020, both indicators are reported in a consolidated manner.SNAPSHOT
60 Solidary Plane
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability       
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsEven during the pandemic, the 
Solidary Plane did not stop, 
and it continued to sail across 
the South American skies to 
support health, environment, and 
humanitarian aid initiatives.
61 Solidary Plane
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability       
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsTotal: 5,655,551 t CO2e
 LATAM Airlines Argentina1
 LATAM Airlines Brazil
  LATAM Airlines Group
  LATAM Airlines Colombia
 LATAM Airlines Ecuador
  LATAM Airlines Perú
  LATAM Cargo
1. Regarding emissions up to June 2020, when the group 
closed down its domestic operations in the country.  Total carbon 
footprint  
 (t CO2e)
2,564,406
According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 
(IPCC), aviation represents 3% of greenhouse gas emissions 
(GHG). To reduce its impact on climate change, LATAM is 
working on two priority topics: improving fuel use efficiency 
and compensating its emissions through various initiatives.
Annually, the group performs its GHG emission inventory 
based on the guidelines established in ISO 14.064. Given the 
decrease in flights during the pandemic, LATAM’s total carbon 
footprint was 5,655,551 tons of CO2e, a 54% reduction 
compared to 2019. The net carbon footprint represented 
5,521,062 tons of CO2e—a 55% decrease compared to the 
previous year’s performance.Climate 
change 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4 and 305-5Total carbon footprint
5,655,551 t CO2e
Total net carbon footprint
5,521,062 t CO2e
Intensity of air emissions 
81 kg CO2e per 100 RTK
Intensity of total net emissions  
79.7 kg CO2e per  100 RTK
[+] Detailed information on the 
greenhouse gas (GHG) inventory, 
available starting on page 175 , in the 
Appendix  section.
[+] For information regarding the 
emission of gases that affect the 
ozone layer, nitrogen oxide (NOx) and 
sulfur oxide (SOx), view page 175 .68,28584,933
1,420,879134,489625,956756,602
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability       
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      Credits
62Scientific base
Early in 2020, LATAM was the first airline group in the 
Americas to adhere to the Science Based Target initiative 
(SBTi), a coalition formed by the Global Compact, Carbon 
Disclosure Project (CDP), World Resources Institute 
(WRI), and World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF).
The coalition advocates the use of scientific bases 
in defining the goals that contribute towards the 
achievement of the Paris Agreement: Limit the increase 
of the planet’s temperature to 1.5°C above preindustrial 
levels, as recommended in the fifth IPCC report 
from 2013.
Throughout the year, the SBTi was devoted to 
developing specific calculation tools for the aviation 
industry. LATAM participated in public consultations 
held. With the tools defined, the group will set its goals 
and validate them with the coalition.CORSIA: the aviation industry’s commitment
The aviation industry, coordinated by IATA and the 
International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), has taken a 
series of steps to tackle the increase in emissions, including 
CORSIA (Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for 
International Aviation), the only one of its kind worldwide. 
CORSIA regulates the greenhouse gas emissions of 
international civil aviation, and its purpose is to achieve 
the carbon-neutral growth goal as of 2020, and reduce 
emissions by 50% over 2005 levels by 2050. The agreement 
is only applicable to international flights, which are 
responsible for 60% of the total emissions from aviation; the 
other 40% is due to domestic flights.
LATAM is guided by CORSIA to define its commitments. 
The scheme was endorsed by the 191 member states of 
ICAO and will be implemented in two stages. The domestic 
operations of LATAM’s affiliates have not yet adhered to 
the voluntary participation stage (phase 1), which begins in 
2021. The mandatory phase (phase 2) will begin in 2027 .
Jet fuel  302-4 and 305-5
LATAM Fuel Efficiency is the corporate program for the 
efficient use of fuel, which has a positive impact on the 
reduction of the carbon footprint and of costs, as fuel is the 
most important operating cost for the whole aviation sector. 
Since 20121, the program has increased the group’s efficiency 
by 6.52%.
The 20201 results were impacted by the new procedures 
implemented during the pandemic: greater use of auxiliary power units (APU) on activities on the ground, increase 
in ground times for sanitization; use of air conditioning 
throughout disembarking to ensure the renewal of the cabin 
air. All the group’s airplanes have an air recirculation system 
and HEPA (High-Efficiency Particulate Arrestor) filters, that 
remove 99.97% of the particles, viruses, and bacteria.
Throughout the year, LATAM continued to invest in new 
efficiency initiatives. It concluded the retrofitting project on 
narrow-body planes. This adjustment allows the use of a 
single engine when taxiing at airports, and prevents the use 
of APUs.
The efforts to optimize the amount of fuel established for 
each route also continued, reducing the total weight of the 
aircraft. Barring LATAM Airlines Brazil, the fleet’s APUs were 
also renewed. By yearend, an analytics tool was launched, 
which will make it possible to crosscheck and analyze 
data to support the decisions regarding the ideal amount 
on each flight.
The gross savings achieved in 2020 totaled 32.1 million 
gallons of fuel (4,207 TJ of energy), equivalent to US$63.8 
million. The figures are smaller than in previous years, as a 
result of the pandemic, but in percentage terms, the group’s 
level of efficiency increased by 0.52 percentage points 
compared to 2019.
1 Although the program has been in existence since 2010, LATAM only 
has externally verified information as of 2012
63 Climate change
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability       
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsIATA TARGET LATAM PERFORMANCE
Increase fuel efficiency by 1.5% an -
nually in the 2005-2020 period.15% in fuel use per 100 RTK in 20121, with 
an annual average of 2%.
1 While the IATA target sets 2005 as the base year, LATAM compares against 2012 to monitor 
its progress.LATAM Fuel Efficiency 302-3 y 302-4
Balance 2012–2020
•  A 6.52%  gain in fuel efficiency;
•  Avoided consumption of 353,377 ,266 million  gallons of fuel, 
equivalent to 3,370,583 tons  of greenhouse gases;
• US$853,267 ,247  saved.
With responsibility, scientific 
information, and a sense of urgency, 
the group collaborates to face 
climate change.
64 Climate change
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability       
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsRisks and opportunities 201-2
LATAM assesses the risks and opportunities in a world 
moving towards a low-carbon economy. One of the most 
important risks is the adoption of restrictive laws and 
regulations in the countries where the group operates, with 
the implementation of taxes for organizations that cannot 
compensate their greenhouse gas emissions (GHG), as is 
already the case in Colombia.
In 2020, LATAM Airlines Colombia neutralized 100% of the 
emissions of its domestic aviation operations, guaranteeing 
exemption from the US$5 charge per ton of CO2 emitted. 
In Europe, some countries are already taxing the emission 
of gases that affect the ozone layer, such as NOx (nitrogen 
oxide), whereas in Latin America, Brazil and Chile are making 
progress in the discussions regarding the matter.
Another mapped risk is extreme weather phenomena, 
such as cyclones and hurricanes, caused by the increase 
in the Earth’s temperature. Those events can cause flight 
cancellations, temporary interruptions of operations and, in 
the medium term, a decrease in demand for flights to the 
affected region.
On the outlook regarding opportunities, the group’s 
performance in the face of climate change may represent 
a competitive advantage impacting passengers’ preference, 
new investments in the companies that manage the ESG 
aspects, as well as fostering a sense of pride and belonging 
in people.Legal momentum
Brazil has a national policy (RenovaBio) to promote the production of 
biofuels. Currently, fossil fuel distributors in the country follow the emission 
reduction goals and are compelled to buy the so-called decarbonization 
credits (CBIOs), operated by the Brazilian Stock Exchange (B3).Biofuels
Brazil is considered a benchmark worldwide in terms of 
biofuel, given its geographic extension, its consolidated 
agriculture sector, and its expertise in the production of 
sugarcane-based ethanol.
LATAM Airlines Brazil participates actively in the discussions 
on the large-scale production of biofuels for aviation, 
both individually and through the Associação Brasileira de 
Empresas Aéreas (ABEAR, the Brazilian Association of Airline 
Companies). The goal is to foster that clean energy source. 
The group also monitors the National Green Hydrogen 
Strategy, launched by the Chilean Energy Ministry in 
November 2020, with the aim to boost green hydrogen 
production for the next few years.  
65 Climate change
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability       
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsEmissions offsetting
In 2020, given the sector’s context amid the Covid-19 
pandemic, the investment in offsetting projects was limited 
to LATAM Airlines Colombia, with the neutralization of 143.1 
thousand tons of CO2. The branch is carbon neutral in ground 
and domestic aviation operations. The projects developed in 
the year were:
•  Reforestation of 2,234 hectares in the Mapiripán, Puerto 
Gaitán, and Puerto López municipalities of the Meta 
department, and 
•  Recovery of degraded soils through financial incentives in 
the center and east of Colombia.CLIMATE CHANGE  302-3 and 305-4 2018 2019 2020
Total emissions (t CO2e) 11,535,117 12,386,323 5,655,551
Net emissions (t CO2e) 11,178,625 12,253,203 5,521,062
Emissions intensity in air operations (kg CO2e/100 RTK) 80.1 82.1 81.0
Net emissions intensity in total operations (kg CO2e/100 RTK) 77 .9 82.8 79.7
Energy intensity (MWh/100 RTK)10.3 0.4 0.6
Rational fuel use (reduction compared with IATA average)27 .9% 5.7% 7 .2%
LATAM fuel efficiency (liters/100 RPK) 31.8 32.6 32.0
Passenger Operations 3.0 3.0 3.2
Cargo Operations 19.8 21.7 20.7
Energy consumption (TJ)3340,440 383,583 218,521
1 Considering internal and external consumption.
2 Based on average consumption in 2019, according to IATA data, which represents 80% of the global air traffic.
3 Includes ground and air operations.SNAPSHOT
66 Climate change
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability       
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsLATAM Group has implemented an internal environmental 
management system (SGA), and it has externally certified 
systems in three units.
•  LATAM Cargo in Miami (USA) is certified under standard ISO 
14001/2015.
•  LATAM Airlines Chile and LATAM Airlines Colombia have a 
IEnvA (IATA Environmental Assessment) certificate, created 
by IATA for the aviation sector. Adhesion is voluntary and 
comprises two stages. The first one covers the scope 
of the ESG, top management’s commitment, and the 
mapping of relevant legal environmental requirements and 
of the environmental aspects and impacts of the activities. 
The second, and more advanced stage, includes defining 
goals, audits, operational programs and controls, and 
training of the teams.Environmental management 
and eco-efficiency
•   LATAM Airlines Chile has the IEnvA stage 2 certificate 
for its international operations and LATAM Airlines 
Colombia is certified under stage 1, considering 
domestic and international operations, administrative 
offices, and the Maintenance Base.
Eco-efficiency
The group seeks to reduce its environmental impacts, 
focusing on the rational consumption of water and 
energy, and on reducing and eliminating waste.
In 2020, water consumption decreased 62% compared to 
2019, while energy consumption decreased by 35%. The 
variation in both is due to a drop in operations, caused by 
the pandemic.
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability       
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      Credits
67 
Water consumption  (m3)1 303-1
314,285
220,833216,626
82,480
2017 2018 2019 2020Electric energy consumption (MWh) 
and energy intensity (MWh/FTE)2
2017 2018 2019 202066,769 
50,641 60,178 
39,329 
1.5
1.21.4 1.4
2 FTE:  Full time employee. 1 Supply comes through the municipal 
networks of the various countries of operation, 
without LATAM’s direct water harvesting. The 
indicator covers 100% of the operation. Renewable sources
 Non-renewable sources
Total: 39,329 MWhElectric energy 
consumption  
(%) – 2020
 The information 
regarding total 
energy consumption 
is found in the 
Appendix .25%
75%
68 Environmental management and eco-efficiency
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability       
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsDestination of waste (t) 2020  306-3, 306-4 and 306-5
W ASTE TO BE DIVERTED FROM DISPOSAL 
Hazardous waste 120
Recycling 120
Non-hazardous waste 642
Recycling 642
Total waste to be diverted from disposal 742
W ASTE DIRECTED TO DISPOSAL
Hazardous waste 4,699
Incineration (with energy recovery) 177
Incineration (without energy recovery) 76
Landfilling 38
Other disposal operations 4,4 08
Non-hazardous waste 1,122
Incineration (with energy recovery) 4
Landfilling 1,016
Other disposal operations 103
Total waste directed to disposal 6,583Waste disposal
In 2020, LATAM registered an 84% decrease in the generation 
of waste compared to 2019. The total settled 31% below 
2015, the base year for the reduction target (10%) defined by 
the group.Recycle Your Trip
Recycle Your Trip is the group’s global program that enables 
it to sustainably manage the waste generated on flights. 
Crew and passengers participate in the selective collection 
of product wrappers from Mercado LATAM, in-flight sales 
program, allowing for the recycling of plastics, aluminum, and 
glass. The initiative began in 2019 on the domestic flights in 
Chile, but was suspended in March 2020, in order to meet the 
new safety protocols arising from the pandemic, and which 
led to less interaction between the crew and passengers. The 
program is expected to resume in Chile’s domestic operations 
in 2021, and to be implemented on the domestic flights of 
LATAM Airlines Brazil, LATAM Airlines Colombia, LATAM Airlines 
Ecuador, and LATAM Airlines Peru in 2022.
ENVIRONMENTAL 
MANAGEMENT AND  
ECO-EFFICIENCY2018 2019 2020
Units with EMS implemented 94% 91% 91%
Units with certified EMS 3% 3% 3%
Water consumption (m3) 220,833 216,626 82,480
Waste disposal (t) 33,351 41,047 6,583SNAPSHOTWaste (%) 306-3
Note: The indicator covers 100% of the 
operations.
 Hazardous
 Non-hazardous2017 = 8,663 t
2018 = 33,351 t
2019 = 41,047 t
2020 = 6,583 t68% 32% 
94% 
92% 
73% 8% 
27% 6% 
69 Environmental management and eco-efficiency
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability       
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      Credits70 Everyone’s commitment
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security       Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      Credits
SECURITYEveryone’s 
commitment
The safety of passengers, employees, and communities is 
one of LATAM's fundamental values, and it is guided by the 
Safety, Quality, and Environment Policy, which follows the 
parameters established by the International Civil Aviation 
Organization (ICAO). The ongoing fine-tuning of procedures, 
the constant monitoring of performance, and the teams’ 
commitment comprise the group’s safety culture.
Indicators of safety on flights, maintenance and cargo 
activities, ground operations, and those regarding airport 
infrastructure are monitored by the Safety vice-presidency, 
reported monthly to the CEO, and are part of the 
Board’s agenda.
Internal campaigns generate awareness in the teams 
regarding the importance of safe behaviors and an online 
platform receives notices of incidents and deviations. The 
information is used for risk-mapping and improvement 
plans. In 2020, the platform received an average of 5.6 
reports per 100 flights.Managing safety
The Safety Management System is comprised of a set of 
tools, programs, and audit processes that enable the group 
to monitor its safety performance on every front, identify 
risk situations in advance, and make decisions to minimize 
them in a fast and coordinated manner. The matrix of risk 
factors and criticality levels is updated systematically, 
considering both the data from internal analyses and the 
information on episodes outside the company.
Opportunities for improvement are also sought by 
monitoring monthly goals established based on the six best 
results achieved in the last two years.Tools
An informatics system captures 96% of the information from 
each flight, automatically processes the data to identify 
deviations from the operating procedures, and preventively 
indicates maintenance actions. LATAM analyzes in detail the 
causes of the deviations and adopts rectification plans.
Since its implementation in 2016, it has continued to 
be improved: coverage increased from 1,280 to 3,000 
parameters per second, measurements became more 
precise, and the time between the plane’s landing and the 
processing of the information decreased. On the planes that 
have Wi-Fi/3G coverage (close to 40% of the fleet in 2020), 
the processing is immediate. For the remainder, 80% of 
the flight information is available in a period of up to three 
days—less than half the time required four years ago.
71
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security       Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsThe data feeds the safety monitoring dashboard, where it 
is possible to see performance per route, airport, fleet, type 
of deviation, and other categories. The reports are sent on a 
weekly basis to the people in charge of each fleet. There is 
also information segmented by pilot, whose data is available 
through the Pilot LATAM app. Through it, the pilot can view 
the details on their performance, compare them with the 
average of the fleet they are in, and have access to incidents 
identified during the flights. Data per pilot is treated with 
absolute confidentiality.
Programs 403-7
Focused on the psychological wellbeing of pilots and 
copilots, LATAM has the SeguraMente program, which offers 
support for cases of personal and family problems, through 
medical consultation and psychological support. The program 
exists for the passenger and cargo operations in the Brazil, 
Colombia, and Chile affiliates, and it will be implemented in 
the Ecuador, Peru, and Paraguay affiliates in 2021.
LATAM Airlines Brazil also has the ProAjuda program, which 
offers support in case of addictions. In addition to pilots 
and copilots, other crew members and employees that work 
in maintenance, flight dispatch, and baggage loading and 
unloading can also have access to it. We should note that 
LATAM has an alcohol and drug check at all its affiliates 
through sample testing done without prior notice. In 2020, 
the guidelines of the process in LATAM Airlines Chile were 
updated, in line with the changes defined by the country’s 
legal authorities.Technology in 
favor of safety
In 2020, LATAM started the Safety II project, which 
uses advanced analytics tools to crosscheck and 
process information regarding various aspects of 
safety, such as: human factors, weather conditions, 
and aircraft maintenance. This information will also 
make it possible to improve the predictive model for 
managing operational safety.
With a broad database and automated analysis of 
the relations between the different variables, it will 
be possible to identify more precisely the factors that 
could have a positive effect on performance, as well 
as those that raise risks or must be managed.Audits
LATAM’s Safety Management System is also comprised of 
audits divided in three groups.
1.  Periodic internal audits, that evaluate the maturity of the 
operational processes implemented.
2.  Internal audits based on the guidelines of IOSA (IATA 
Operational Safety Audit), whose goal is to guarantee that 
all the affiliates meet the parameters for certification.
3.  IOSA recertification audits, that can be performed every 
two years, if on-site, or annually if done remotely. All 
LATAM affiliates have been certified since 2007 .
Fatigue control
LATAM uses a specific software to structure pilots’ and 
copilots’ work shifts, preventing them from operating 
when they have high levels of fatigue. This technology 
crosschecks variables of the Circadian cycle (wake and 
sleep states) with the team planning. Based on the 
results, they arrive at an ideal composition of the shifts.
72 Everyone’s commitment
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security       Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      Credits• The safety procedures for remote check-in were created and 
validated with the aviation authorities, and are available in 
airports of Brazil and Chile.
• Temperature control and other biosecurity procedures were 
adopted in various of the group’s facilities, such as hangars, 
cargo warehouses, and offices.
• In the cargo operations, in line with the new US directive, 
LATAM started scanning 100% of the cargo shipped to the 
United States.
• The remote monitoring system was adopted in the ware -
houses, strengthening security for high-value cargo.Emergency response plan
The Emergency Response Plan defines the resources and 
groups of people that are to be activated in case of an 
aviation emergency, considered as an accident with deaths. 
The goal of that plan is to support the affected people and 
their families, assist the aviation authorities in their inquiries, 
maintain communication with the various stakeholders, and 
guarantee the continuation of the operation.
Emergency Committees, workgroups of ground teams, and 
volunteers are activated to assist the affected people and 
their families. There are local committees in eight of the 
group’s affiliates: Chile, Brazil, Peru, Colombia, Ecuador, 
United States, Paraguay, and Spain.
Emergency drills and trainings are held annually in all the 
affiliates under the framework of the Safety Weeks. As a 
result of the pandemic, in 2020, LATAM was forced to reduce 
this event to a single day and trained over 700 employees.Airport security
LATAM works in line with national and international 
airport security standards. The group invests in ongoing 
improvements of the processes so the cargo and passengers 
transported reach their destinations safely, without being 
affected by complications.
With the Covid-19 pandemic, LATAM adjusted some of its 
procedures, as described below.
• The directives related to disruptive passengers now includ -
ed specific guidelines on how to address clients who refuse 
to wear their individual protective gear.
• To prevent passenger inadmissibility situations in the des -
tination airports, the team’s guidelines regarding the health 
requirements for boarding were strengthened.EMERGENCY RESPONSE 2018 2019 2020
Members of the emergency team 2,954 3,787 2,814
People trained 991 1,563 746SNAPSHOT
73 Everyone’s commitment
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security       Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsLA TAM GROUP  
EMPLOYEES
74  In its 91 years of history, 2020 stood out as the most 
challenging for LATAM as a result of the global context. 
At the height of the pandemic, the group decreased its 
operations up to 5% of its capacity. Domestic routes were 
reduced in all the countries of operation; international 
ones were kept for flights originating in Brazil and 
Chile, while at other affiliates, international operations 
remained shut down due to health restrictions. This drastic 
drop in demand required that the group take austerity 
measures in management, where its employees’ support 
was fundamental.
In negotiating with the local workers’ unions, and under the 
legal framework of each country, flexibilization measures 
were agreed, such as a reduction of the workday with a pay 
cut and the granting of non-remunerated leave.
In March, the companies in LATAM group proposed a 
voluntary pay cut for employees for a period of three 
months, which was accepted by 95% of the employees. The 
strategy was adjusted over the following months, given that the group was gradually able to resume operations, it began 
its restructuring process, and due to the external scenario. By 
the end of 2020, the decrease was 15%.
Turnover
These initiatives were essential to reducing the group’s 
operating expenses, but they were not enough to preserve 
all the jobs. Given the expanse of the pandemic and the 
significant decrease in demand—mainly in the international 
operation—LATAM was forced to lay off close to 15,262 
thousand employees throughout the year. The turnover rate 
settled at 53.7% in 2020—in 2019, it stood at 13.7%. 401-1
In the process of shutting down the domestic operations of 
LATAM Airlines Argentina in June, 1,522 employees accepted 
the voluntary retirement plan, while 193 had to be dismissed.
The layoff process adhered to the labor law and was 
accompanied by careful work to mitigate the impact 
for the dismissed employees (see figure) and keep the 
staff committed.Joint 
challenge
Support for professional relocation
To support the job relocation of the dismissed professionals, 
the group designed an initiative called Talent Market. The 
people management teams introduced and referred former 
employees to human resource consultancy firms and 
other companies.
In addition, LATAM launched a web platform, with 
information and the CVs of these people, that other 
companies and consultancy firms can access. Tutorials and 
other support tools for the professional reintegration of 
former workers in Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and 
Argentina were also included. By November 2020, there had 
been over 125 thousand visits to the site.
[+] View detailed information on staff 
turnover in the Appendices .
75
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees       Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsOrganizational climate
Despite the challenges that the group faced, the 
Organizational Health Index (OHI) rose one point to 75—
the best result for the group since it started using this 
methodology, in 2014. The survey measures the teams’ 
perception on various dimensions, such as coordination and 
control, and innovation and learning, and 75% employees 
participated in it.
Dialogue and transparency
In this exceptional scenario, LATAM bet on an ongoing 
dialogue with its employees. Leaders intensified internal 
communications and meetings with their teams to keep 
them informed, answer questions and concerns, and 
strengthen the relationship of trust.The tools for dialogue and engagement, already 
systematized in the group, supported the process, with 
virtual meetings, as home office was generally adopted by 
the administrative teams when the first cases of the disease 
began. Among the tools, we find:
•  LATAM News:  Weekly meeting between leaders and teams;
•  Extended : Periodic meetings hosted by the 
vice-presidents;
•  1 : 1 Accompaniment : specific conversations between 
the employee and their leader, supporting the individual 
development process; and 
•  Recognition Platform : leaders and colleagues can publicly 
acknowledge employees with an outstanding performance.To address the great challenge of 2020, LATAM had the 
commitment of its more than 28,000 employees. With 
strength and determination, each one collaborated to pull 
the group through and keep connecting people and regions.
Internal 
movements  
Throughout the year, of the 
vacancies in middle management 
(heads and analysts), 91% of the 
executive positions were covered 
through internal movements.
76 Joint challenge
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees       Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsTeam development
Investments in training were decreased in the year, totaling 
US$13.6 million. The average hours of training decreased 
from 37 .1 in 2019 to 30.9 in 2020. 404-1
In Brazil, with most of the teams working under the home 
office model, LATAM Airlines Brazil signed alliances to offer 
self-development courses online, such as English as a foreign 
language and stress management.TRAINING (h) PER PROFESSIONAL 2018 2019 20201
By professional category
Management 0.7 11.2 20.3
Maintenance 25.2 41.2 31.7
Operations 178.4 32.4 36.0
Command crew 11.1 66.4 10.1
Cabin crew 50.7 52.7 43.2
Sales 5.0 18.0 11.2
By gender
Men 30.3 36.5 30.2
Women 42.5 38.2 32.0
Total 35.0 37. 1 30.9
1 The figures include the Argentina affiliate, whose operations were 
closed down in June 2020.SALARY COMPARISON WOMEN/MEN1
Board Members21.00
Top management: CEO, vice-presidents, directors, and 
senior management0.76
Managers and assistant managers (considering financial 
incentives as well as the base salary)0.91
Managers and assistant managers (only base salary) 0.93
Middle management (heads and analysts) and other 
employees1.01
1 The calculation uses the average salary for women/average 
salary for men.
2 The Board’s salary is determined by the Shareholders’ Meeting. It is 
equal for all board members, except the chairman, and it is based solely 
on their participation in the meetings.
To strengthen its commitment to salary 
equality and non-discrimination for gender, 
LATAM approved its Compensations Policy in 
2019. In 2020, women’s average salary went 
from 76% to 101% of men’s average salary.PEOPLE MANAGEMENT 2018 2019 2020
Total employees 102-7 41,170 41,729 28,396
Turnover rate 14.2% 13.7% 53.7%
Average hours of training 35.5 37. 1 30.9
Internal movements
Middle management (heads and analysts) 71% 74% 84%
Executives 87% 91% 91%
OHI survey
Result 64 74 75
Quartile 3 1 1SNAPSHOT
77 Joint challenge
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees       Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsWho makes up 
LATAM group
 Operations: 14,947 | 52.6%
 Support: 4,475 | 15.8%
 Pilots and co-pilots: 3,056 | 10.8%
 Other crew members: 5,918 | 20.8%Country of 
operation 
Function
 Argentina: 2.9%
 Brazil: 54.5%
  Chile: 25.2%
  Peru: 9.5%
 Colombia: 3.9%
 Ecuador: 1.7%
 United States: 0.7%
 Others: 1.7%
Total: 28,396 employees
Note: 98.9% of the contracts are permanent and 99.4% of 
employees work full time.LATAM group and its affiliates  102-8
52.6 15.810.820.82.9
3.91.70.71.7
54.525.29.5
78
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees       Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsTOTAL EMPLOYEES (2020) TOTAL %
By gender
Men 17,638 62.1
Women 10,758 37. 9
By age group 
Up to 30 years 6,338 22.3
From 31 to 40 years old 11,931 42.0
From 41 to 50 years old 7,324 25.8
From 51 to 60 years old 2,420 8.5
Over 61 years old 383 1.3
By seniority
Up to 3 years 6,805 24.0
From 3 years and a day to 6 years 3,872 13.6
From 6 years and a day to 9 years 4,461 15.7
From 9 years and a day to 12 years 4,648 16.4
More than 12 years and a day 8,610 30.3
Total 28,396 100.0%MANAGEMENT LEVEL EMPLOYEES1 (2020) TOTAL %
By gender
Men 475 69.6
Women 207 30.4
By age group 
Up to 30 years 27 4.0
From 31 to 40 years old 341 50.0
From 41 to 50 years old 224 32.8
From 51 to 60 years old 79 11.6
Over 61 years old 11 1.6
By seniority
Up to 3 years 66 9.7
From 3 years and a day to 6 years 94 13.8
From 6 years and a day to 9 years 172 25.2
From 9 years and a day to 12 years 97 14.2
More than 12 years and a day 253 37. 1
Total 682 100.0
1 Management level: includes assistant manager, manager, senior manager, director, 
and vice-president.BOARD (2020) TOTAL %
By gender
Men 8 98.9
Women 1 11.1
By age group 
Up to 30 years 0 0
From 31 to 40 years old 1 11.1
From 41 to 50 years old 1 11.1
From 51 to 60 years old 4 44.4
Over 61 years old 3 33.3
By seniority
Up to 3 years 5 55.6
From 3 years and a day to 6 years 3 33.3
From 6 years and a day to 9 years 1 11.1
From 9 years and a day to 12 years 0 0
More than 12 years and a day 0 0
Total 9 100LATAM  group and affiliates 
79 Who makes up LATAM group
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees       Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsLATAM  group and affiliates
DISTRIBUTION BY GENDER IN THE COUNTRIES (2020)  102-8 WOMEN MEN
Total employees
Argentina 456 369
Brazil 5,138 10,330
Chile 2,885 4,270
Colombia 457 649
Ecuador 237 238
United States 88 119
Peru 1,266 1,423
Others 231 240
Management level employees1
Argentina 4 7
Brazil 56 111
Chile 114 279
Colombia 6 16
Ecuador 2 5
United States 12 26
Peru 8 16
Others 5 15
Board Members
Chile 2 22,2
Brazil 6 66,7
UK 1 11,1
1 Management level: includes assistant manager, manager, senior manager, director, 
and vice-president.Gender (%)
DIVERSITY IN THE WORKFORCE – 2020 (%)
Women (% of total employees) 37. 9
Women in management positions (% of management positions) 34.0
Managers and assistant managers 28.7
Vice-presidents and CEO 5.3
Women in revenue generation positions (Sales managers and assistant managers) 32.51. Management level: includes assistant manager, mana -
ger, senior manager, director, and vice-president.
 Men 
 Women Gender – by country (%)
Argentina   
Brazil
Chile
Colombia
Ecuador
Peru
United States
Others44.7 55.3
66.8 33.2
59.7 40.3
58.7 41.3
50.1 49.9
52.9 47. 1
57 .5 42.5
51.0 49.0Total employees
Management level1  
Board Members  62.1 37. 9
30.5 69.5
98.9 11.1
80 Who makes up LATAM group
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees       Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsEmployee safety is a priority for LATAM and its management 
involves awareness programs, risk analysis, key indicator 
monitoring, prevention and mitigation plans, and periodic 
inspections and audits.
The group identifies and creates control measures for 
operating risks and harmful agents for employees’ health, 
such as personal or collective protective systems. The safety 
inspections, the risk management system report, and the peer 
committees, which include representatives from the employee 
base and from LATAM, collaborate to identify the dangers.Team  
safety 403-9
Risks considered critical
Risks that can cause people's death or permanent 
disability in the workplace are considered critical risks. 
These are:
•  Working at height;
•  Work in confined spaces;
•  Operation of mobile equipment; 
•  Exposure to noise; 
•  Handling aircraft engines; and
•  Handling hydraulic systems.
To minimize teams’ exposure to these risks, inherent to 
the operation and to more complex activities, LATAM 
has defined “golden rules” that must be adopted and 
observed by all.100% of the operations are in line with the 
noise limits, defined in Chapter IV of the 
International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO).
2020 Results
LATAM showed positive performance in safety indicators 
in 2020. The rate of days lost, which measures work 
interruptions due to accidents, dropped 52.1% compared to 
2019. The rate of injuries remained on the same downtrend 
seen in the last few years. The indicator stood at 0.42, with a 
43.2% decrease compared to the previous year, and 70.4% in 
the last five years.
81
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees       Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsPreventive measures against the pandemic
In order to reduce the risk of infection by coronavirus 
among workers, LATAM implemented a series of preventive 
initiatives. Among them, we should note:
•  Strengthening of the cleaning and sanitation measures;
•  Identification of professionals in at-risk groups;
•  Monitoring of the areas in the company and the regions 
with increases in cases and performance of tests to 
detect the disease: in Chile, the test was done on all the 
Operations team;SNAPSHOTOCCUPATIONAL HEAL TH AND SAFETY 403-9 2018 2019 2020
Number of accidents1 390 310 148.5
Injury rate2 0.93 0.74 0.42
Days lost3 6,164 5,232 1,943
Lost days rate4 14.7 12.5 5.47
Deaths (total | rate) 0 | 0 0 | 0 0 | 0
Injuries due to work accidents with large consequences 
(total | rate)5 NA NA 3 | 0.01
Recordable injuries due to work accidents (total | rate)6NA NA 145.5 | 0.41
•  The supply of personal protective equipment (PPE);
•  Taking temperature upon accessing the LATAM facilities; and
•  Internal communication with information on the disease.
In addition, a team was appointed permanently to serve and 
guide whoever was suspected of being infected. Employees 
with a confirmed diagnosis were monitored until they were 
given a medical release.
In the second half of the year, on-site work was resumed at 
the administrative offices following specific protocols.2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
1 Total accidents with lost time/average no. of employees x 100.Injury rate1
 1.42
1.12
1.03
0.93
0.74
0.42 NA: information not available.
1 Accidents related to some critical risk and high-impact events (accidents resulting in over 100 
days lost) represent 1.5 of the total calculation.
2 Total injuries with work interruptions/average no. of employees x 100.
3 The days lost are computed in accordance with the local legislation in each country. Argentina, 
Colombia and the United States start to count from the day after the accident; the other countries 
count from the day when the accident occurred. The indicators do not cover commuting accidents.
4 Total days lost / average no. of employees x 100. Includes work interruptions related to occu -
pational diseases, accidents, or deaths.
5 The calculation does not include deaths. The calculation of the rate uses the formula injuries/
average employees x 100. This GRI indicator started to be monitored in 2020.
6 The calculation does not include deaths. The calculation of the rate uses the formula injuries/
average employees x 100. This GRI indicator started to be monitored in 2020.
[+] Indicators by gender and country of 
operation are available in the Appendices .
82 Team  safety 
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees       Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsIntegrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers       Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      Credits83  
LA TAM GROUP  
CUSTOMERSSafety
With regard to the safety and protection of its passengers 
and crew, LATAM follows all the recommendations from 
the World Health Organization (WHO), the regulations 
established by the health authorities of the countries where 
it operates, and the International Air Transport Association 
(IATA). In addition, it has a comprehensive safety protocol 
covering the check-in, boarding, in-flight, and disembarking.
Among the measures implemented by the LATAM teams to 
guarantee customer security, we find:
•  Since May 2020, mandatory use of facemasks by 
passengers and crew on all flights; LATAM was the first 
airline group in the region to announce this measure;
•  Availability of sanitizing gel on all flights;
•  Distancing measures on boarding and disembarking;
•  Temporary suspension of on-board services on domestic 
and short-haul flights;•  Decrease in the number of interactions between the crew 
and passengers on long-haul flights and the premium 
business class; and 
•  Segmentation of employee transportation to the airports.
In turn, LATAM launched an innovative sanitation process 
developed by the team at the Maintenance Base in São 
Carlos (São Paulo), in Brazil. This is an autonomously-
operating robot that applies ultraviolet light to sanitize 
surfaces, such as folding chairs and tables, thus reducing the 
use of chemical products. The efficacy of this technology 
was proven by microbiology specialists from the São Paulo 
University (USP).Air quality
The whole LATAM fleet’s ventilation systems have 
HEPA filters, that remove 99.97% of the viruses and 
bacteria. In addition to cleansing the air, they renew 
it every three minutes, mixing a portion of filtered 
air in the cabin with air extracted directly from the 
atmosphere.
The aviation industry was one of the most affected sectors by 
the Covid-19 pandemic, following the sharp drop in demand 
and the restrictive measures on people’s movement worldwide. 
Despite the adverse scenario, LATAM group remained faithful 
to its purpose of connecting people and regions, enabling 
essential transfers in the countries where it operates.
Following the start of the health contingency, the group 
focused on guaranteeing the return of passengers to their 
place of origin with the maximum safety and speed. Over 
162 thousand people were repatriated, in a coordinated 
effort with various governments.
In turn, LATAM provided its clients with greater commercial 
flexibility, extending the validity of the tickets with trip start 
dates in 2020 until December 2021, and enabling them to be 
rescheduled, without fines or additional charges.Connecting 
people
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers       Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      Credits
84LATAM group’s On-time performance 
2020 was an extremely challenging year from an operational 
viewpoint. Due to the pandemic, LATAM had to adjust various 
operational processes, such as cleaning and disinfecting its 
aircraft, boarding and disembarking passengers and checking 
in, among others. Despite these adjustments, LATAM 
maintained its commitment to flight punctuality by obtaining 
90% DEP15 punctuality during 2020 (a standard that 
measures industry punctuality). This result placed the group 
3 percentage points above its 2019 results, when it was 
recognized as the most punctual airline group in the world 
by consultancy firms OAG and Cirium, global benchmarks in 
information and analytics for the airline industry.
Satisfaction
Concerned for its passengers, LATAM constantly monitors its 
levels of perception of the operation and service. Proactively, 
the group carries out several surveys within the “Voice of 
the Customer” program. These are activated at various 
points of interaction with the client, and mainly measure 
the Net Promoter Score (NPS) and satisfaction regarding 
different processes. 
Faced with the pandemic, it became necessary to shift 
gears downward and maintain distancing, but LATAM 
stayed close to its clients, offering safe transport for 
those who needed to return home, perform essential 
activities, or connect with faraway places.Within the aspects considered are Digital Experience, 
In-flight experience, and Contact Center, which makes it 
posible to understand strengths, weaknesses, and generate 
ongoing process improvements.
The results for 2020 were positive. Our NPS achieved a 
7-point hike vs. 2019, reaching 40 points, and when only 
looking at 2H20, it reached 45 points, settling 10 points 
above the same period of the previous year.
In the context of the pandemic, a new question was 
included in the post-flight survey, whose goal is to gauge 
the level of protection that passengers feel when traveling 
with LATAM. Since its implementation in May, up to 
December 2020, it managed to improve by 11 pp, reaching 
levels of 30 pp.
Among the attributes explaining the hikes in our customers’ 
satisfaction, based on their own comments, they highlighted 
the service rendered, the kindness of our teams, on-time 
performance on our flights, and the preventive measures 
implemented due to the pandemic.The survey was taken by 8% of the passengers traveling with 
LATAM group in 2020.
LATAM Cargo and the cargo affiliates also use the NPS 
methodology to gauge customer satisfaction. In 2020, 
as a result of the pandemic, the operation was affected, 
which was reflected in a 14-point decrease. Nonetheless, 
this remains a positive result, with more promoters than 
detractors. Moreover, the company’s customers in Latin 
America valued the role that it played in transporting 
products amid the health crisis.
Cabin transformation
As part of the ongoing improvements for the travel 
experience, LATAM continued with the modernization of the 
aircraft cabins to offer greater flexibility and customization 
and better serve the various needs of its passengers. Until 
December 2020, the cabins on 84 airplanes had been 
refurbished, following an investment of US$105 million. Given 
the extraordinary conditions due to the pandemic, the project 
was temporarily interrupted, while the group remains focused 
on its clients with other innovation and care initiatives.
85 Connecting people
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers       Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsThe changes with passengers in mind gained momentum in 
2020, with the launch of the new LATAM digital experience, 
which seeks to simplify the processes so passengers can 
access information or the service they need directly from 
their phones or their preferred devices (app, website, 
WhatsApp, or SMS).
An example of this was the elimination of the check-in 
process for domestic flights. Passengers no longer need to 
reconfirm their flight 48 hours before, but the ticket is now 
automatically updated and the most recent information is 
provided as the takeoff time approaches, such as boarding 
gate, seat selection, and any schedule modifications.
The new LATAM digital experience was taken to some 
airports, with the renovation of the facilities, prioritizing the 
self-service kiosks. 
This transformation began in the Chile and Ecuador 
affiliates, and by late 2020, it reached Colombia and Brazil. 
The launch in Peru is scheduled for 2021.More digital travel 
experience
28
1359Ease in 
checking in
 28% automatic check-ins 
  13% check-ins done by an agent 
at the airports
  59% digital check-ins (via App, website, 
or self-service kiosks)The efforts focused on improving passengers’ digital 
experience gave rise to LATAM group’s E-Business unit.
Remote check-in at airports
LATAM was the first airline group in Latin America to offer 
remote assistance in airports. Through this measure, already 
operational in Brazil and Chile, passengers interact with an 
agent via a digital screen. The initiative strengthened passenger 
safety during the pandemic and increased the service level 
offered. Without needing to be physically present at a service 
point, agents can easily be relocated, based on the demand 
variations at the various airports.With the new digital experience, 28% of the 
check-ins were done automatically in 2020. 
This share is expected to increase as the project 
progresses throughout the operation. 
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers       Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      Credits
86Analytics
Analytics tools enable improvements in over 30 
processes, such as more assertively directing 
campaigns, based on passenger profile and identifying 
potential fraud attempts on the LATAM Pass program. 
They are also used to cross-check information from 
aircrafts and maintenance centers to identify and 
manage in advance the factors that could affect the 
operation’s on-time performance.
Self-bag drop : In December 2020, the service was available 
at nine airports: São Paulo, Brasilia, Río de Janeiro, 
and Salvador de Bahía (Brazil), Puerto Montt (Chile), 
Bogotá (Colombia), Quito (Ecuador), London (England), 
and Lima (Peru).
Facial recognition through biometrics during boarding:  with 
this technology, passengers present their documents only once 
to the police authorities. LATAM is testing this technology at 
the airports of Montevideo (Uruguay), Santiago (Chile), Orlando 
and New York (USA), and Florianopolis (Brazil).
Augmented reality tool:  available through the App, it 
enables passengers to confirm whether their carry-on 
baggage meets the dimensions allowed on board.
LATAM Play platform:  App that gives access to series, films, 
news, and other entertainment content in flight.CUSTOMERS 2018 2019 2020
LATAM Pass1 (registered) 30 million 30 million 38 million
Technology
LATAM app users 5,468,600 8,052,136 NA
Easy check-in 78.5% 79.4% 87%
Automatic check-in2- - 28%
Digital self-service check-in (app, website, or kiosk) 78.5% 79.4% 59%
On-time performance
OTP 15 82% 88% 90%
Satisfaction3
NPS – Passenger 23 33 40
NPS – Cargo 23 32 18
1 2018 considers the sum of both programs run at the time by the group: LATAM Fidelidade  
(in Brazil), LATAM Pass (in the other countries).
2 The function was implemented in 2020.
3 The NPS methodology uses a scale from -100 to +100.
NA: information not available.SNAPSHOTCAR010
SIG156
FFP011INT002Other solutionsLATAM reinvents itself and bets on a digital experience to 
make the whole process of customers’ interaction with 
the company even more simple and accessible, from 
choosing a flight to disembarking.
87 More digital travel experience
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers       Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      Credits88 Partner network
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers       Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      Credits
LA TAM GROUP  
SUPPLIERSLATAM group does business with 9 thousand suppliers, with 
a total acquisition volume of around US$3.82 billion in 2020. 
These companies are mainly in South America (see image), 
where the supply chain linked to the operation involved over 
28 thousand workers1 in 2019. Supplier relations are based on 
transparency, commitment, and the search for joint evolution.
With the start of the voluntary restructuring process (see 
page 44), all payments pending were temporarily suspended, 
remaining subject to the US court’s approval. To prevent 
supply interruptions, the LATAM teams reached agreements 
with suppliers, and thus, the relationship of trust made it 
possible to continue operating.
With the approval of the DIP financing and the reception of 
the funds, LATAM was able to finalize some negotiations.
The US court also authorized payment to the micro, small, and 
medium sized companies.Partner 
network
1   Sourc e: Economic Impact of 
LATAM Airlines in South America, a 
study done by Oxford Economics in 
May 2020.
2 Based on the location of the 
company’s headquarters. 
3 Ground handling services for 
aircrafts, passengers, and cargo.2682
644
41
21111053221Geographic 
distribution2Purchase 
volumes 
  64% Brazil, Chile, Colombia and Peru
  26% Other countries in America
  8% Europe and Africa
  2% Asia and Oceania
9,013 suppliers  41% Fuel
  21% Engines, fleet, financiers 
and LATAM Travel
  11% Other non-technical purchases
  10% Technical purchases
  5% Ground handling3
  3% Technology and systems
  2% Infrastructure
  2% Supply and caterin g
  1% Management
  4% Others
US$3.82 billion
89
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers       Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsActions during the pandemic
The business’ allies were fundamental in the logistics to 
supply isolated regions and transport medical materials (see 
page 25). The work implied the coordination with suppliers 
in various areas, and was supported by their relationship of 
trust in LATAM.
It is also worth noting the work done by companies that 
target customers, such as catering, for instance. Together 
with LATAM, those suppliers developed new safety protocols 
for in-flight service, to prevent the risks of the disease and 
communicate an even greater feeling of safety to passengers.
Chain profile 102-9
Product and service suppliers are divided into 21 categories, 
between technical and non-technical purchases.
Purchases related to operations are considered technical, 
such as suppliers of fuel; fleet and engines; engineering 
services; consumables and spare parts; PMA (Part 
Manufacturer Approval); wheels, brakes, tires and avionics; 
in-flight entertainment; seats, materials and trim; sales; 
larger components, such as landing gear; repair, exchange, 
and rental of certain components made available via a pool 
system by the suppliers; and non-pool purchases (tools and 
other types of components).
The non-technical purchases category includes: airport 
suppliers; administration; supply and catering; infrastructure; 
hotels and uniforms; marketing; professional services; 
technology and systems; and transportation.Audits  
In 2020, LATAM audited 122 
suppliers, which resulted in 
717 improvement plans, to be 
monitored over the next year.Main suppliers  
LATAM’s main suppliers are aircraft manufacturers: 
Airbus and Boeing. Suppliers of aircraft accessories, 
spare parts, and aircraft components are also 
relevant partners, including: Pratt & Whitney, MTU 
Maintenance, Rolls-Royce, Pratt and Whitney Canada, 
CFM International, General Electric Commercial Aviation 
Services Ltd., General Electric Celma, General Electric 
Engines Service, Honeywell, Israel Aerospace Industries 
(engines and auxiliary power units– APU); Zodiac 
Seats US, Recaro, Thompson Aero Seating (seats); 
Honeywell and Rockwell Collins (avionics and APU); 
Air France / KLM, Lufthansa Technik (maintenance, 
repair, and operations components- MRO); Zodiac 
Inflight Innovations, Panasonic and Thales (in-
flight entertainment); Safran Landing Systems, AAR 
Corporation (landing trains and brakes); UTC Aerospace 
and Nordam (engine mount).
Among fuel suppliers, the main ones are: Raízen, 
Petrobras, Air BP-Copec, World Fuel Services, AirBP PBF, 
YPF, Terpel, Repsol, CEPSA, and Vitol.
Good practices
Supplier management follows the guidelines of quality and 
regularity in supply, competitive prices, legal compliance, 
and good social and environmental practices.
Fuel suppliers, ground handling, supply and catering 
undergo periodic audits and the group encourages the 
alignment of the whole chain to its principles and values.Participants in bidding processes must adhere formally to 
the Supplier Code of Conduct, which discusses anticorruption 
and antitrust practices, access to privileged information, 
privacy, security of confidential and client data, digital and 
cybernetic crime, financial and money-laundering crimes, and 
socioenvironmental, labor, and human rights issues.
Engagements are ruled by the Corporate Procurement 
Policy, which is aligned to the group’s Anticorruption Policy 
and establishes the financial, social, and environmental 
requirements for the partners. Moreover, all contracts 
have a specific clause demanding the communication of 
environmental incidents or damages.
90 Partner network
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers       Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsRisk management 308-2 and 414-2
The chain’s risk matrix includes economic, social, and 
environmental criteria for all the product and service 
categories. To identify risks of unfair competition, 
corruption, child or slave labor, financing to terrorism and 
drug trafficking, and environmental nonconformities, LATAM 
uses an international database lookup system. All suppliers 
undergo a preventive analysis in the engagement stage and 
active suppliers are monitored on a monthly basis.
LATAM verifies in detail all cases of alert in the system, 
and if the risk or legal breach is confirmed, it defines the 
measures to be taken, including suspension of the contract.
In 2020, nearly 6.7 thousand suppliers were subjected to 
evaluation; in 3% of them, risks were found and mitigation 
plans were designed. No contracts were interrupted.Third-party 
intermediaries
For third-party intermediaries (TPIs), suppliers 
that interact on behalf of LATAM with national and 
international public officials, there is a due diligence 
process before engaging them. The contract also 
includes anticorruption and antibribery clauses and, 
during the life of the contract, these suppliers are asked 
to prove their adherence to the Code of Conduct and 
Anticorruption Policy.SUPPLY CHAIN 2019 2020
Total LATAM suppliers 15,341 9,013
Most representative suppliers1
Share of the supplier base 13% 11%
Share in the acquisitions volume 69% 89%
Identification of potential risks  308-2 and 414-2
% of categories subjected to sustainability risk analysis 100% 100%
Preventive analyses carried out in the international 
database systems (% of the total base)9,427 (61%) 6,680 (74%)
Suppliers considered as high risk in sustainability aspects 
(% of those analyzed)110 (1.1%) 178 (3%)
Detailed evaluations based on the system alerts  
(% of the high-risk group)110 (100%) 178 (100%)
Monitoring and management
Audits performed 249 122
Suppliers with agreed mitigation plans 
(% of the audited group)192 (77%) 112 (92%)
Action plans 1,616 717
Contracts terminated due to noncompliance 0 0
1 Includes companies with contracts worth over US$1 million, interacting with government agen -
cies on behalf of LATAM or supplying the operation with essential or difficult to replace elements. 
The information released in the 2019 Report was adjusted to that definition.
Note: as an exception, it is not possible to present the historical 3-year series, given that the 
calculation formula for the total supplier base was corrected in 2019, which makes it impossible 
to compare to 2018.SNAPSHOT
91 Partner network
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers       Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      Credits92
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology       Appendices      Financial information      Credits
METHODOLOGYConstruction 
of the report
LATAM Materiality matrix 102-47
1  Health and safety in the air and on 
the ground
2 Ethics and anti-corruption
3 On-time performance
4 Economic and financial sustainability
5 Developing employees
6 Mitigating climate change
7 Customer focus
8  Developing the destination network 
to offer greater connectivity
9 Relations with authorities
10 Sustainable tourismRelevance for LATAM and the sector
40 00 50 1050
10
00
60 2060
20
70 3070
30
8080
40
9090
100100
12
34
56789
10Relevance for stakeholder groupsThe LATAM 2020 Integrated Report covers all the companies 
in the LATAM Airlines Group and the period from January 1 
to December 31, 2020. The publication has been prepared 
in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
standards, Core option and the integrated reporting 
principles of the International Integrated Reporting Council 
(IIRC), as well as with the legal and accounting standards for 
annual financial result reports.
The contents and indicators linked to the GRI standards have 
been subjected to external verification by Deloitte (see page 
103). PwC (see page 181) was responsible for auditing the 
Consolidated Financial Statements of LATAM Airlines Group 
and its affiliates, which include the consolidated financial 
statements as at December 31, 2019 and 2020, available 
starting on page 180. 102-56
The content selection considered the coverage of the 
10 topics deemed as the most relevant for the group 
and its stakeholders.102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-46, 102-47, 102-50, and 102-54
93
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology       Appendices      Financial information      CreditsDefinition of materiality
The process of defining the material topics for LATAM, 
which concluded in early 2018, analyzed the main economic, 
environmental, and social impacts of the business, as well as 
the expectations of LATAM’s main shareholders. Nearly 2,400 
responses from individuals, employees, clients, and suppliers 
were considered. 
Below, we have prioritized the most relevant (material) 
topics, obtained from the evaluation of the degree of 
relevance and impact. The consolidated view of the external 
publics and the group’s leaders comprises the materiality 
matrix, validated by the CEO.STAKEHOLDER GROUP1  102-40 and  102-42 CONSUL TATION METHODOLOGY
Employees Online survey
Customers Online survey
Suppliers Online survey
Investors and shareholdersResearch into the sustainability topics incorporated into the investment policies 
of the group’s seven main investors and shareholders2
Society (civil society organizations and the 
press)Research into the sustainability topics in the publications of 14 organizations3 
with whom LATAM maintains relations and sustainability topics involving LATAM 
published in the press in the course of 2017
AuthoritiesResearch into the sustainability topics raised in the publications of ten 
regulatory authorities4
Aviation industryResearch into the sustainability topics raised in the publications of six 
competitors5, ten industry associations6, and three specialists7
 
 
1The selection of the stakeholders consulted was conducted in accordance with LATAM’s Sustainability Policy. The groups with which 
LATAM interacts directly or indirectly and that are impacted positively or negatively by its activities were taken into consideration.
2 Banco de Chile (Citi in the US); JP Morgan; Deutsche Bank; Santander; Larraín Vial; Raymond James; and BTG Pactual.
3 América Solidaria; TECHO; Chilenter; Fundacion la Nacion; Fundación Sí; Cimientos; SAFUG (Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users 
Group); Junior Achievement; Amigos do Bem; Make a wish; Instituto Rodrigo Mendes; Operación Sonrisa Colombia; Operación 
Sonrisa Peru; and Fundación Pachacutec.
4 AC Chile (Civil Aeronautics Board); Nuevo Pudahuel – Chile; Easter Island Municipality – Chile; ANAC Argentina (Adminis -
tración Nacional de Aviación Civil); ANAC Brasil (Agência Nacional de Aviação Civil); SAC Brasil (Secretaria Nacional de Aviação 
Civil); INFRAERO Brasil; Aerocivil Colômbia (Aeronautica Civil – Unidad Administrativa Especial); CNAC Ecuador (Consejo Nacio -
nal de Aviación Civil); and DGAC Peru (Dirección General de Aeronáutica Civil).
5 China Airlines; Gol; Lufthansa; ANA (All Nippon Airways); Delta Airlines; and Airfrance/KLM.
6 IATA (International Air Transport Association); AL TA (Latin American and Caribbean Air Transport Association); Amcham Chile 
(American Chamber of Commerce); Idea (Instituto para el Desarrollo Empresarial de la Argentina); JURCA (Cámara de las Com -
pañías Aéreas em Argentina); ABEAR (Associação Brasileira das Empresas Aéreas); ABRABA (Aliança Brasileira Para Biocom -
bustíveis de Aviação); ATAC (Asociación del Transporte Aéreo en Colombia); ARLAE (Asociación de Representantes de Líneas 
Aéreas en el Ecuador); and AETAI Peru (Asociación de Empresas de Trasporte Aéreo Internacional).
7 SASB (Sustainability Accounting Standards Board) – Airlines Materiality Map; GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) — Sustainabili -
ty Topics for Sectors: What do stakeholders want to know?  – Air Transportation – Airlines; and DJSI Company Benchmark Report.
94 Construction of the report
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology       Appendices      Financial information      CreditsMaterial topic
102-44 and  103-1Stakeholder group indicating 
relevance of topicBOUNDARIES CHAPTER OF 
THE INTEGRATED 
REPORT Where does The impact occur? Organization’s involvement
Health and safety in the air 
and on the groundGovernment, customers, employees and 
suppliersThe impact is seen inside the organization, mainly affecting the 
aircraft, airports, and other operational facilities.LATAM determines different levels of management according to the type 
of event. There is a dedicated team that prepares the organization to 
manage emergencies on an ongoing basis.Employees
Security
Ethics and anti-corruptionPress, customers, employees, suppliers 
and investorsThe impact is seen inside the organization, affecting all employees 
and third parties, as well as the overall society.LATAM has implemented a wide-ranging compliance program to manage 
impacts and minimize risks.Corporate governance
On-time performance Customers, employees and suppliersThe impact is on LATAM’s main activity; that is, the flights it oper -
ates, affecting passenger perceptions and the business as a whole.LATAM can manage a significant portion of the impacts, such as delays due 
to maintenance, managing air crews, and others. Some impacts are external 
to the organization, such as weather conditions, air traffic limitations, and 
congestion at airports.Clients
Economic and financial 
sustainabilityPress, customers, employees, suppliers 
and investorsThe main impact is seen inside LATAM, and it can affect the 
brand, the loyalty program, the implementation of the business 
strategy, commercial relations, and others.LATAM can adjust or restructure its strategy, even if most of the fac -
tors are beyond its control. The Group has a policy to manage and 
mitigate financial risksOur business
Employee development Customers, employees and suppliersThe impact is throughout LATAM’s operations. Human resources 
management is directly linked with corporate performance.LATAM manages employee talent and fosters commitment to 
corporate strategy.Employees
Mitigating climate change Customers, employees and suppliersThe main impact is on the environment and comes mainly from 
the use of fuel, which contributes to overall greenhouse gas emis -
sions and, to a lesser extent, to the worsening of local air quality.The impact is the result of the Group’s operations, which is the reason why 
LATAM has a strategy for monitoring and managing climate change. More -
over, the Group is attentive to opportunities to incorporate new technolo -
gies and best practices that influence this issue.Sustainability
Customer focus Press, customers, employees and suppliersThe impact occurs inside LATAM and with its customers, affect -
ing market share and customer spending on the Group.LATAM plays a key role in managing this impact, mainly with regard to its 
capacity to anticipate existing risks.Clients
Destination network and 
connectivityPress, customers, employees and suppliersThe development and growth of the destination network bene -
fits the cities served, generating economicdevelopment through 
the reduced cost of doing business and transporting cargo, as 
well as increasing tourism.LATAM plays a key role in managing and monitoring the factors that may 
influence this issue.Profile
Relations with authoritiesCivil society organizations, industry asso -
ciations, customers, employees, suppliers 
and investorsThe impact from a change in the regulatory environment is seen 
inside the organization, affecting all the operations, and outside 
the organization, affecting the sector as a whole.LATAM’s role is to identify and monitor how decisions by public authorities 
may affect the Group’s development and the airline industry, as well as 
connectivity in a country or region, and consumers.Profile  
Corporate governance
Sustainable tourism Customers and employees The impact is on the destinations served by LATAM.The capacity to manage this question varies in accordance with LATAM’s 
share in the totalpassenger traffic to a determined location. The Group 
strives to play an active role in promot- ing a balance between tourism and 
the preser- vation of the local culture and environment.Sustainability
95 Construction of the report
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology       Appendices      Financial information      CreditsGRI  
content index 102-55
GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2016
GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016
DISCLOSURE PAGE/ ANSWER
102-1  Name of the organization 15 and 106
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and servicesThe main services offered are the transportation of passengers and cargoes, and the frequent flier program; there are 
no cases of banned services in any of the markets operated. A full description is included on pages 15, 49 and 106.
102-3 Location of headquarters Chile, page 106.
102-4 Location of operations 24 and 106
102-5 Ownership and legal form 106
102-6 Markets served 15, 23 and 24
102-7 Scale of the organization 15, 24, 46 and 47
102-8 Information on employees and other workers 78 and 80
102-9 Supply chain 90
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 15 and 35
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approachLATAM does not formally adopt the precautionary principle, but it does incorporate potential operational impacts 
and risks to consumers and society into its planning. All Group services–routes, itineraries, maintenance activities, 
and loyalty programs–comply with current legislation.
96
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology       Appendices      Financial information      CreditsGRI 101: FOUNDATION 2016
GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016
DISCLOSURE PAGE/ ANSWER
102-12 External initiatives 52
102-13 Membership of associations 108
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 12
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 29
102-18 Governance structure 31
102-40 List of stakeholder groups 30 and 94
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 64% of employees are unionized and 86% are covered by collective bargaining agreements.
102-42 I dentifying and selecting stakeholders 93 and 94
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagementIn addition to the approach described in Construction of the Report, LATAM's management of its relations with its 
stakeholders is presented in the Sustainability, Employees, Customers, and Suppliers chapters.
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 95
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements All the subsidiaries were covered by the report.
102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 93
102-47 List of material topics 93
102-48 Restatements of information Cases of restatement are clearly indicated.
102-49 Changes in reporting None.
102-50 Reporting period From January 1 to December 31, 2020.
102-51  Date of most recent report April 2020.
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual.
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report investorrelations@latam.com and sostenibilidad@latam.com.
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option.
102-55 GRI content index 96
102-56 External assurance 103
97 GRI  content index
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology       Appendices      Financial information      CreditsGRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE/ ANSWER
Material topic: Health and safety in the air and on the ground
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 95
103-2 The management approach and its components 71 and 81
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 71 and 81
GRI 403:  Occupational health and safety 2018403-7   Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety 
impacts directly linked by business relationships72
403-9 Work-related injuries 82
Material topic: Ethics and anti-corruption
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 95
103-2 The management approach and its components 29 and 30
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 29 and 30
GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016205-2  Communication and training about anti-corruption policies 
and procedures30
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions takenNo relevant cases on the matter. We should note that LATAM uses the definition 
of corruption from the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), according to which 
an act of corruption is incurred when there is an offer, promise, or authorization of 
payment, or a payment in fact, made to a public official, with the aim to induce the 
receiver to abuse their position, regardless of whether the corrupt act succeeds in 
its purpose.
GRI 206:  Anti-competitive behavior 2016206-1  Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and 
monopoly practicesThere were no significant fines; that is, worth over US$50 million, or that could 
paralyze the operation or affect the group’s image.
GRI 417: Marketing and labeling417-3  Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing 
communicationsThere were no significant fines; that is, worth over US$50 million, or that could 
paralyze the operation or affect the group’s image.
GRI 419:  Socioeconomic compliance 2016 419-1  Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and 
economic areaThere were no significant fines; that is, worth over US$50 million, or that could 
paralyze the operation or affect the group’s image.
98 GRI  content index
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology       Appendices      Financial information      CreditsGRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE/ ANSWER
Material topic: On-time performance
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 95
103-2 The management approach and its components 85
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 85
Not applicable On-time performance (OTP) 87
Material topic: Economic and financial sustainability
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 95
103-2 The management approach and its components 44 and 45
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 44 and 45
GRI 203:  Indirect economic impacts 2016 203-2  Significant indirect economic impacts 16
Material topic: Developing employees
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 95
103-2 The management approach and its components 75
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 75
GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 177
GRI 404: Training and education 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 77
Material topic: Mitigating climate change
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 95
103-2 The management approach and its components 62, 63, 65, 66, 67 and 69
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 62, 63, 65, 66, 67 and 69
GRI 201: Economic performance 2016201-2  Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due 
to climate change65
99 GRI  content index
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology       Appendices      Financial information      CreditsGRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE/ ANSWER
Material topic: Mitigating climate change
GRI 302: Energy 2016302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 176
302-3 Energy intensity 64 and 68
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 63 and 64
GRI 305: Emissions 2016305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 62 and 175
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 62 and 175
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 62 and 175
305-4 GHG emissions intensity 62 and 175
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 62 and 175
305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 175 
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other signifi -
cant air emissions175
GRI 306: Waste 2020306-3 Waste generated 69
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal 69
306-5 Waste directed to disposal 69
Material topic: Customer focus
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 95
103-2 The management approach and its components 85, 86 and 87
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 85, 86 and 87
Not applicable Net Promoter Score (NPS) 87
100 GRI  content index
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology       Appendices      Financial information      CreditsGRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE/ ANSWER
Material topic: Destination network
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 95
103-2 The management approach and its components 23 and 25
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 23 and 25
Not applicable Connectivity 24 and 26
Material topic: Relations with authorities
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 95
103-2 The management approach and its components 30
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 30
GRI 415: Public policy 2016 415-1  Political contributions 30
Material topic: Sustainable tourism
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 95
103-2 The management approach and its components 16 and 45
103-3  Evaluation of the management approach 16 and 45
GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts 2016 203-1  Infrastructure investments and services supported 45 and 58
Other GRI standards monitored
GRI 303: Water and effluents 2018 303-3  Water withdrawal 68
GRI 308:  Supplier environmental assessments 
2016308-2   Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and 
actions taken91
GRI 414:   Supplier social assessment 2016414-2   Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions 
taken91
101 GRI  content index
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology       Appendices      Financial information      CreditsGlobal 
Compact
LATAM is a signatory to the Global Compact, a United 
Nations Organization (UN) initiative aimed at mobilizing 
the international business community to adopt, in 
their business practices, a series of fundamental 
and internationally accepted values in the areas 
of human rights, labor relations, the environment, 
and anticorruption.
The table shows the location, within this document, of 
the main actions developed.Human rights
1  Support and respect the protection of internationally 
proclaimed human rights.  
(page  56)
2  Ensure non-complicity in human rights abuses 
(page  56)
Labor
3   Uphold the freedom of association and the effective 
recognition of the right to collective bargaining 
(page 96)
4  Support the elimination of all forms of forced and 
compulsory labor (pages 56, 90 and 91)
5  Support the effective abolition of child labor (pages 
56, 90 and 91)
6  Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment 
and occupation (pages  29 and 77)Environment
7  Support a precautionary approach to environmental 
challenges (from the page 62 to 69)
8  Undertake initiatives to promote greater 
environmental responsibility (pages 62 to 69)
9  Encourage the development and diffusion of 
environmentally friendly technologies (pages  63, 
64 and 65)
Anti-corruption
10  Work against corruption in all its forms, including 
extortion and bribery (pages 29 and 30)
102
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology       Appendices      Financial information      Credits 102-56      
 
Deloitte Advisory SpA – Rosario Norte 407 – Las Condes, Santiago
– Chile – Fono: (56) 227 297 000 – Fax: (56) 223 749 177
deloittechile@deloitte.com – www.deloitte.cl
INDEPENDENT REVISION OF LATAM 
INTEGRATED REPORT 2020
Mr.
Juan José Tohá
Director of Corporate Affairs and Sustainability
Present
Dear Mr. Tohá,
Please find herein the outcomes of the revision of LATAM´s 
Integrated Report 2020 according to the following aspects:
Scope
Limited assurance engagement of the adherence of the contents 
and indicators included in the 2020 Integrated Report to the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, regarding the organization’s 
profile and material indicators arising from the materiality process 
that the Company carried out following said Standards related to 
the economic, social, and environmental dimensions.
Standards and Assurance Process
We have carried out our task in accordance with the guidelines of 
the International Standard on Assurance Engagements Other than 
Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (ISAE 3000) 
issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standard Board 
(IAASB) of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC).Our review has consisted in an inquiry process involving 
different LATAM units and management areas, involved in the 
process of developing the Report, as well as in the application 
of analytic procedures and verification tests, which are 
described in the following items:
•  Meeting with Sustainability management.
•  Requirements and review of evidence with the areas 
participating in the preparation of the 2020 Integrated Report.
•  Analysis of the adherence of the contents of the 2020 
Integrated Report to the GRI Standards: Core option, and 
review of the indicators included in the report in order to verify 
that they are aligned with the protocols established in the 
Standards, and whether the fact that some indicators are not 
applicable or not material is justified.
•  Verification, through tests of quantitative and qualitative 
information corresponding to the GRI Standards indicators 
included in the 2020 Report, and its adequate gathering from 
the data provided by LATAM information sources.
Conclusions
•  The assurance process was based on the indicators 
established in the materiality process carried out by LATAM. 
Once those indicators were identified, prioritized, and 
validated, they were included in the report. The reported and 
verified indicators appear in the following table:
102-1, 102-2, 102-3, 102-4, 102-5, 102-6, 102-7, 102-8, 102-9, 102-10 , 
102-11 , 102-12 , 102-13 , 102-14 , 102-16 , 102-17 , 102-18 , 102-40 , 102-41 , 
102-42 , 102-43 , 102-44 , 102-45 , 102-46 , 102-47 , 102-48 , 102-49 , 102-50 , 
102-51 , 102-52 , 102-53 , 102-54 , 102-55 , 102-56 , 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 
201-2, 203-1 , 203-2 , 205-2 , 205-3 , 206-1 , 302-1 , 302-3 , 302-4 , 303-1 , 
305-1 , 305-2 , 305-3 , 305-4 , 305-5 , 305-6 , 305-7 , 306-3 , 306-4 , 306-5 , 
308-2 , 401-1, 403-7 , 403-9 , 414-2, 415-1, 417-3, 419-1•  Regarding the verified indicators, we can say that no aspect 
has arisen to lead us to believe that the Integrated Report 
2020 LATAM has not been prepared in accordance with the 
GRI Standards in those areas identified in the scope.
LATAM Management and Deloitte Responsibilities
•   The drafting of the 2020 Integrated Report, as well as its 
contents are under LATAM responsibility, which is in charge 
of the definition, adaptation, and maintenance of the 
management and internal control systems from who the 
information is obtained.
•   Our responsibility is to issue an independent report based on 
the procedures applied in our review.
•   This report has been prepared exclusively by LATAM's 
request, in accordance with the terms established in the 
Engagement Letter.
•   We have developed our work according to the standards of 
Independence established in the Code of Ethics of the IFAC.
•   The conclusions of the verification made by Deloitte apply to 
the latest version of the LATAM Integrated Report received 
on March 23, 2021.
•   The scope of a limited assurance engagement is essentially 
inferior to a reasonable assurance engagement, thus, we 
are not hereby providing opinion about the 2020 LATAM 
Integrated Report.
Fernando Gaziano
Partner
March 24, 2021
103
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology       Appendices      Financial information      CreditsABEAR:  Brazilian Airlines Association
ADR:  American Depositary Receipt
AENOR:  Spanish Standards and Certification Association
AFP:  Chilean Pension Fund Managers
AL TA:  Latin American and Caribbean Air Transport Association
ANAC: National Civil Aviation Agency — Brazil
API: Action Plan Index
APU:  Auxiliary Power Unit (engines and auxiliary power units)
ASK:  available seat-kilometers — equivalent to the number of 
seats available multiplied by the distance flown
ATAC:  Colombian Air Transportation Association
ATAG:  Air Transport Action Group
ATK:  available ton-kilometers —  equivalent to the capacity 
available in tons multiplied by the distance flown
B3: Brazilian Stock Exchange
CEIV Pharma:  Center of Excellence of Independent Validators 
Pharma
CEO:  Chief Executive Officer
CMF:  Financial Market Commission (Chile)
CORSIA:  Carbon Offsetting Reduction Scheme for International 
Aviation
CVM:  Brazilian Securities Commission
DIP: Debtor In Possession, financing mechanism provided in 
Chapter 11 of the US Bankruptcy law, where creditors of the 
loan take precedence to receive the securities.GLOSSARY
EBITDA:  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and 
amortization
EBITDAR:  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortiza -
tion, and aircraft rentals
EMS:  Environmental Management 
GEI: Greenhouse gases
GLP:  Liquefied petroleum gas
GRI: Global Reporting Initiative
HEPA:  High-Efficiency-Particulate Arrestors, high-efficiency 
filters that retain particles. They are used in air circulation sys -
tems on aircraft and remove over 99.9% of impurities, such as 
virus and bacteria, from the air.
IAG: International Airlines Group
IASB: International Accounting Standards Board
IATA: International Air Transport Association
ICAO:  International Civil Aviation Organization
IEnvA:  IATA Environmental Assessment
IFRS:  International Financial Reporting Standard
IIRC: International Integrated Reporting Council  
ILO: International Labour Organization
IOSA:  IATA Operational Safety Audit
IPCC:  Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
JBA: Joint Business Agreement
LSA: Chilean Corporations Act
MRO:  Maintenance, Repair, and OperationNPS:  Net Promoter Score
NYSE:  New York Stock Exchange
OCDE:  Organization for Economic Co-operation and 
Development
OHI: Organizational Health Index
OPA:  Public tender offer
OPEC:  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries 
OTC:  Over-the-counter market, where financial instruments are 
traded directly between the parties concerned, outside the or -
ganized markets.
OTP:  on-time performance
PMA:  Parts Manufacturer Approval
RASK:  revenue per available seat-kilometer – gauges the ef -
ficiency of the airline; it is obtained by dividing the operating in -
come by the ASK
RPK:  revenue passenger-kilometers – total paying passengers 
and cargo multiplied by distance traveled
RTK:  revenue ton-km— ton transported multiplied by the dis -
tance traveled
SDG:   Sustainable Development Goals
SEC:  Securities and Exchange Commission  
SSC:  Spanish-speaking countries
TDLC:  Chilean Antitrust Court
TPI: third-party intermediary
UN: United Nations
104
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology       Appendices      Financial information      CreditsAPPENDICES106  Legal incorporation, Company purpose and Property, 
plant and equipment
107 Corporate information
108 Membership of associations
109 Board: composition and résumés
112  Annual Report Of The Board Committee’s Administration
119 Main Executives
121 Shareholders’ Agreements
126 Regulatory Framework
135 Material Facts
151 Risk factors
175 Climate change
176 Environmental management and eco-efficiency
177 Joint challenge
178 Team safety
105
Integrated Report 2020APPENDICES: PROFILELegal incorporation
It was established as a limited liability company via a pu -
blic deed dated December 30, 1983 before Notary Eduar -
do Avello Arellano; an excerpt of this deed is recorded in the 
Santiago Commerce Registry on page 20,341 number 11,248 
of the year 1983, and published in the Official Gazette on 
December 31, 1983.
Pursuant to the public deed dated August 20, 1985, granted 
by Notary Miguel Garay Figueroa’s Office, the company be -
came a joint-stock corporation known as Línea Aérea Na -
cional Chile S.A. (now, LATAM Airlines Group S.A.) which, by 
express provision of Law N° 18,400, has the quality of legal 
follower of the state-owned company created in the year 
1929 under the name Línea Aérea Nacional de Chile, pur -
suant to the aeronautical and radio communications conces -
sions, traffic rights, and other administrative concessions.LATAM Airlines Group S.A. is ruled by the standards 
applicable to open stock companies, and registered to 
this effect under Nº 0306, dated January 22, 1987, in the 
Securities Register of the Financial Market Commission 
(Comisión para el Mercado Financiero or CMF), formerly 
the Superintendence of Securities and Insurance (SVS).
Company purpose
 a)  To market air and/or ground transportation in any of its for -
ms, be it for passengers, cargo, mail, and anything direct -
ly or indirectly related to that activity within or outside the 
country, on its own behalf or for third parties; 
b)  To render services related to the maintenance and repair of 
its own or third parties’ aircraft; 
c)  To develop and operate other activities derived from and/or 
related, connected, contributing, or complementary to the 
company’s corporate purpose; 
d)  Trade and development of activities related to travel, tou -
rism, and lodging; and
e)  To participate in partnerships of any kind that will enable 
the company to fulfill its goals.LATAM Airlines Group S.A.
RUT: 89.862.200-2
Address: Santiago
Trade names: “LATAM Airlines” , “LATAM Airlines Group” , 
“LATAM Group” , “LAN Airlines” , “LAN Group” and/or LAN” .Property, plant and equipment
 
Chile
•  Headquarters:  LATAM’s main facilities in Chile are located 
near the Comodoro Arturo Merino Benítez International 
Airport in Santiago. The compound has offices, meeting 
rooms, training areas, dining rooms, and simulation 
cockpits used in the processes to instruct the crew. In turn, 
the corporate offices are located in the central region of 
the capital, Santiago.
•  Maintenance Base:  part of the International Airport in 
Santiago. It includes a hangar for airplanes, warehouses, 
and offices, as well as parking space for airplanes with 
capacity for 30 short-haul and 10 long-haul aircrafts.
•  For more information regarding the activities carried out, 
see page 15 .
•  Other Facilities: LATAM also has a flight training center and 
a recreational area for employees, created with the aid of 
Airbus. Both are located near the Santiago airport.
Brazil
•  Headquarters: The main facilities of LATAM Airlines Bra -
zil are located in the city of São Paulo, in hangars located 
in the Congonhas Airport and its surroundings, which are 
leased from Infraero, the local airport administrator. The 
Service Academy is also near the airport; this is where the 
selection, training, and simulation processes, as well as 
medical care, are carried out.Who we are 102-1, 102-2, 102-3, 102-4 and 102-5
106 Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 106
APPENDICES: PROFILE•  Maintenance Base: The MRO base is in São Carlos, within 
São Paulo. Its activities and capacity are described on page 
21. In addition to that unit, LATAM Brazil also has spaces 
for aircraft maintenance, acquisition, and logistics of ae -
ronautical materials within the hangars of the Congonhas 
airport.
•  Other Facilities:  commercial branch, uniforms building, 
Morumbi Office Tower building, Contact Center building, 
and offices of the LATAM Travel subsidiary, all located wi -
thin the city of São Paulo.
Other localities
LATAM also has facilities in the Miami International Airport 
(US), leased by the airport through a concession agreement. 
These include a corporate building, cargo warehouses, a refri -
gerated area, an aircraft parking platform, and a maintenance 
hangar with workshops, warehouses, and its own offices.
In Argentina, Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru, LATAM’s affilia -
tes have leasing contracts for administrative and commer -
cial offices, hangars, and maintenance areas through airport 
concessions.Corporate information
Headquarters
5711 Presidente Riesco Ave., 19th floor
Las Condes, Santiago, Chile
Phone: (56) (2) 2565 2525
Maintenance base
Arturo Merino Benitez Airport
Santiago, Chile
Phone: (56) (2) 2565 2525
Ticker symbol
L TM CI – Santiago Stock Exchange
L TM US – New York Stock Exchange
Investor relations
Investor Relations | LATAM Airlines Group S.A.
5711 Presidente Riesco Ave., 20th floor
Las Condes, Santiago, Chile
Phone: (56) (2) 2565 2525
E-mail: investorRelations@LATAM.com
Shareholder queries
Central Securities Depository
1730 Los Conquistadores Ave., 24th floor, Providencia
Santiago, Chile
Phone: (56) (2) 2393 9003
E-mail: atencionaccionistas@dcv.clADR depositary bank
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
P.O. Box 64504
St. Paul, MN 55164-0504
General phone: (800) 990-1135
Phone: Outside the US (651) 453-2128
Phone: Global Invest Direct (800) 428-4237
E-mail: jpmorgan.adr@wellsfargo.com
ADR custodian bank
Banco Santander Chile
Bandera 140, Santiago
Custody Department
Phone: (56) (2) 2320 3320
Independent auditors
PwC
2711 Andrés Bello Ave., 5th floor
Santiago, Chile
Phone: (56) (2) 2940 0000
Further information about LATAM  Airlines Group
www.latamairlinesgroup.net
www.latam.comWho we are
 
107 Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 107
APPENDICES: PROFILEBrazil
• Asociación Internacional de Transporte Aéreo (IATA)
• Associação Brasileira de Agências de Viagens (Abav)
• Associação Brasileira de Anunciantes (ABA)
• Associação Brasileira de Comunicação Empresarial (Aberje)
• Associação Brasileira dos Consolidadores de Passagens
• Aéreas e Serviços de Viagens (AirTKT)
• Associação Brasileira das Empresas Aéreas (Abear)
•  Associação Brasileira de Agências de Viagens Corporativas 
(Abracorp)
•  Associação Brasileira das Empresas do Mercado de 
Fidelização (Abemf)
• American Chamber of Commerce (Amcham Brasil)
• Flight Safety Foundation (FSF)
• G100 Brasil
•  Junta de Representantes das Companhias Aéreas 
Internacionais do Brasil (Jurcaib)
•  Oficina de Convenciones de Sao Paulo – Fundação 25 de 
Janeiro
• Sindicato Nacional das Empresas Aéreas (SNEA)Chile
• Acción Empresas
• Asociación Chilena de Aerolíneas (ACHILA)
• Asociación Internacional de Transporte Aéreo (IATA)
• Asociación Latinoamericana y del Caribe de Transporte
• Aéreo (AL TA)
•  Cámara Chileno Norteamericana de Comercio 
(Amcham – Chile)
• Cámara de Comercio Chileno-Argentina
• Cámara de Comercio Chileno-Peruana
• Cámara de Comercio de Santiago
• Cámara Oficial Española de Comercio de Chile
• Centro de Estudios Públicos
• Corporación de Estudios para Latinoamérica (Cieplan)
• Federación de las Empresas de Turismo de Chile (Fedetur)
• Fundación Chilena del Pacífico
• I nstituto Chileno de Administración Racional 
de Empresas (ICARE)
• Pacto Global
• Sociedad de Fomento Fabril (SOFOFA)
Colombia
• Asociación de Transporte Aéreo de Colombia (ATAC)
• Asociación de Aerolínea Internacionales en Colombia (ALAICO)Ecuador
•  Asociación de Representantes de Líneas Aéreas del 
Ecuador (ARLAE)
• Cámara de Industrias de Guayaquil
• Cámara de Industrias y Producción de Quito
Peru
•  Asociación de Empresas de Transporte Aéreo Internacional 
(AETAI)
• Asociación Peruana de Empresas Aéreas (APEA)
• Cámara de Comercio Americana del Perú (AmCham)
• Cámara Nacional de Turismo (CANATUR)
•  Confederación Nacional de Instituciones Empresariales 
Privadas (CONFIEP)
• Sociedad de Comercio Exterior del Perú (COMEX PERÚ)
• Perú 2021Membership of associations 102-13
108 Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 108
APPENDICES: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
Enrique Cueto Plaza
Vice-Chairman of the Board
RUT:  6.694.239-2
Mr. Enrique Cueto has served as a member of LATAM Airlines 
Group’s board of directors since April 2020. Formerly, he held 
the position of LATAM Airlines Group’s Chief Executive Offi -
cer (“CEO”), since the combination between LAN and TAM in 
June 2012. From 1983 to 1993, Mr. Cueto was Chief Execu -
tive Officer of Fast Air, a Chilean Cargo airline. From 1993 to 
1994, Mr Cueto was a member of the board of LAN Airlines. 
Thereafter, Mr. Cueto held the position of CEO of LAN un -
til June 2012. Mr. Cueto is member of the International Air 
Transport Association (“IATA”) Board of Governors. He is also 
member of the Board of the Endeavor foundation, an orga -
nization dedicated to the promotion of entrepreneurship in 
Chile, and Executive Member of the Latin American and Cari -
bbean Air Transport Association (“AL TA”). Mr. Cueto is the bro -
ther of Mr. Ignacio Cueto, Chairman of the board. Mr. Cueto is 
also a member of the Cueto Group. As of February 28, 2021, 
Mr. Cueto shared in the beneficial ownership of 99,381,777 
common shares of LATAM Airlines Group (16.39% of LATAM 
Airlines Group’s outstanding shares) held by the Cueto Group.
Ignacio Cueto Plaza
Chairman of the Board
RUT:  7 .040.324-2
Mr. Ignacio Cueto has served as a member of LATAM Airlines 
Group’s board of directors and as Chairman since April 2017 and 
was re-elected to the board of directors of LATAM in April 2019 and 
April 2020. Mr. Cueto’s career in the airline industry extends over 30 
years. In 1985, Mr. Cueto assumed the position of Vice president of 
Sales at Fast Air Carrier, a national cargo company of that time. In 
1985, Mr. Cueto became Service Manager and Commercial Mana -
ger for the Miami sales office. Mr. Cueto later served on the board 
of directors of Ladeco (from 1994 to 1997) and LAN (from 1995 to 
1997). Mr. Cueto served as President of LAN Cargo from 1995 to 
1998, as Chief Executive Officer-Passenger Business from 1999 to 
2005, and as President and Chief Operating Officer of LAN since 
2005 until the combination with TAM in 2012. Mr. Cueto later served 
as LAN’s CEO until April 2017 . Mr. Cueto also led the establishment 
of the different affiliates that the Company has in South America, 
as well as the implementation of key aliances with other airlines. Mr. 
Cueto is a member of the Cueto Group. As of February 28, 2021, Mr. 
Cueto shared in the beneficial ownership of 99,381,777 common 
shares of LATAM Airlines Group (16.39% of LATAM Airlines Group’s 
outstanding shares) held by the Cueto Group.
Enrique Ostalé Cambiaso
Director
RUT:  8.681.278-9
Mr. Enrique Ostalé joined LATAM Airlines Group’s Board of 
Directors in April 2020. He is also Chairman of the Board 
of Walmart Mexico and Central America SBA, and Walmart 
Chile S.A. Prior to this role, he was Executive Vice president 
and Regional Chief Executive Officer – U.K, Latin America 
and Africa, at Walmart International. Mr. Ostalé assumed this 
expanded regional role in April 2017 after serving previous -
ly as CEO of Walmart Latin America, India and Africa (2016- 
17), as CEO of Walmart Mexico, Central America and Latin 
America (2013-16) and President and CEO of Walmart Chile 
(2006-13), when he led the successful transition of D&S S.A 
into what is today Walmart Chile, following its acquisition by 
Walmart Inc. in 2009. Mr. Ostalé holds an undergraduate de -
gree in economics and business administration from Adolfo 
Ibáñez University and a Master of Science in Accounting and 
Finance from the London School of Economics.
Governance structure
BOARD: composition and résumés
109 Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      CreditsAPPENDICES: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
Henri Philippe Reichstul
Director
RUT:  48.175.668-5
Mr. Henri Philippe Reichstul joined LATAM's board of directors 
in April 2014 and was reelected to the board of directors of 
LATAM in April 2019 and April 2020. Mr. Reichstul is a Brazilian 
citizen and has served as President of Petrobras and the IPEA 
(Institute for Economic and Social Planning) and Executive Vice 
president of Banco Inter American Express S.A. Currently, in 
addition to his roles as Administrative Board member of TAM 
and LATAM Group, he is also a member of the board of direc -
tors of Repsol and chairman of the board of Fives, among oth -
ers. Mr. Reichstul is an economist with an undergraduate degree 
from the Faculty of Economics and Administration, Universi -
ty of São Paulo, and postgraduate work degrees in the same 
discipline–Hertford College–Oxford University.
Nicolás Eblen Hirmas
Director
RUT:  15.336.049-9
Mr. Nicolás Eblen has served on LATAM's board of directors 
since April 2017 and was re-elected to the board of direc -
tors of LATAM in April 2019 and April 2020. Mr. Eblen current -
ly serves as CEO of Inversiones Andes SpA, a position he has 
held since 2010. In addition, he serves on the board of directors 
of Granja Marina Tornagaleones S.A., Río Dulce S.A., Patago -
nia SeaFarms Inc., SalmonChile A.G., and Sociedad Agrícola La 
Cascada Ltda. Mr. Eblen holds a Bachelor's degree in Industrial 
Engineering, major in Computer Science from Pontificia Univer -
sidad Católica de Chile and a Master in Business Administra -
tion from Harvard Business School. As of February 28, 2021, 
the Eblen Group had the beneficial ownership of 27,644,702 
common shares of LATAM Airlines Group (4.56% of LATAM Air -
lines Group's outstanding shares).
Patrick Horn
Director
RUT:  6.728.323-6
Mr. Patrick Horn has served on LATAM Airlines Group's board 
of directors since April 2019 and was reelected in April 2020. 
He is currently a Member of the Economic Council of the 
Universidad de los Andes and director of non-profits such as 
Aportes Chile. He has more than 35 years' experience as an 
executive, both in Chile and abroad, in companies including 
British American Tobacco Co., Unilever, Compañía Sudamer -
icana de Vapores and Grupo Ultramar, where he was also di -
rector of subsidiaries. Mr. Horn graduated as an Industrial Civil 
Engineer from the Pontificia Universidad Católica de Valparai -
so and holds a Master of Science in Industrial Engineering 
from the Georgia Institute of Technology, U.S. He has partici -
pated in executive programs at the training centers of British 
American Tobacco Co. and Unilever in London, and at Kellogg 
Business School. He also completed a business management 
program (PADE) at the Universidad de los Andes business 
school (ESE).
Governance structure
BOARD: composition and résumés
110 Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      CreditsAPPENDICES: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
Eduardo Novoa
Director
RUT:  7 .836.212-K
Mr. Eduardo Novoa has served on LATAM’s board of directors 
since April 2017 and was reelected to the board of directors 
of LATAM in April 2019 and April 2020. In addition, Mr. Novoa 
serves on the board of directors of Cementos Bio-Bio, Grupo 
Ecomac, ESSAL and is a member of the advisory board of 
STARS and Endeavor. He was also a member of the board of 
directors of Esval, Soquimich, Grupo Drillco, Techpack, Ende -
sa-Americas, Grupo Saesa, Grupo Chilquinta, and several com -
panies in the region that were subsidiaries of Enersis and AFP 
Provida. He has also been a member of the board of Am -
cham-Chile, the Association of Electric Companies, YPO-Chile, 
Chile Global Angels and several Start-Ups. Between 1990 and 
2007 he was an executive of several companies such as Corp -
Group, Enersis, Endesa, Blue Circle, PSEG and Grupo Saesa. Mr. 
Novoa has a Bachelor of Business and Administration from the 
Universidad de Chile and a Master in Business Administration 
from the University of Chicago. He has participated in executive 
programs at Harvard, Stanford and Kellogg and was professor 
of finance and economics at several universities in Chile.
Alexander Wilcox
Director
RUT:  foreigner
Mr. Alexander Wilcox has served on LATAM Airlines Group’s 
board of directors since October 2020. Mr. Wilcox resides in 
the United States and has broad experience in the aviation in -
dustry where he held executive positions in several airlines be -
tween 1996 and 2005. Mr. Wilcox is a cofounder and the CEO 
of JSX, a public charter commuter air carrier in the U.S. Mr. 
Wilcox attended the University of Vermont and earned a BA in 
Political Science and English.
 
Sonia Villalobos  
Director
RUT:  21.743.859-4
Mrs. Sonia J.S. Villalobos joined the Board of LATAM Airlines 
in August 2018 and was reelected to the board of directors of 
LATAM in April 2019 and April 2020. Mrs. Villalobos is a Brazil -
ian citizen and a regular member of the board of directors of 
Petrobras and Telefónica Vivo. She is a founding partner of the 
company Villalobos Consultoria since 2009 and a professor of 
post-graduate courses in finance at Insper since 2016. Between 
2005 and 2009, she was the Manager of Funds in Latin America, 
in Chile, managing mutual and institutional funds of Larrain Vial 
AGF. From 1996 to 2002, she was responsible for Private Equi -
ty investments in Brazil, Argentina and Chile for Bassini, Play -
fair & Associates, LLC. As of 1989 she was Head of Research 
of Banco Garantia. She graduated in Public Administration from 
EAESP/FGV in 1984 and obtained a Master in Finance from the 
same institution in 2004. She was the first person to receive the 
CFA certification in Latin America, in 1994. As a volunteer, she 
participates in the Board of the CFA Society Brazil, a non-profit 
association that brings together nearly 1,000 professionals who 
hold the CFA (Chartered Financial Analyst) certification in Brazil.
Governance structure
BOARD: composition and résumés
111 Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      CreditsAPPENDICES: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
Pursuant to item number 5 of section 8 of article 50 bis 
of Law N° 18046 Regarding Stock Corporations, the Board 
Committee of LATAM Airlines Group S.A. (the “Company” or 
“LATAM”) proceeds to issue the following annual report of its 
administration for 2020.
I. Composition of the directors’ committee
The Company’s Directors’ Committee comprises Messrs. 
Eduardo Novoa Castellón, Patrick Horn García, and Nicolás 
Eblen Hirmas, who are deemed independent members under 
US legislation. Under Chilean legislation, the former two are 
deemed independent members. The Directors’ Committee is 
chaired by Mr. Eduardo Novoa Castellón.
The members were chosen in the Ordinary Shareholders’ 
Meeting held on April 30, 2020, for a two-year term, pursu -
ant to provisions in the Company’s bylaws.
II. Committee’s activity report
During 2020, the Directors’ Committee met 41 times, in 
order to exercise their powers and fulfill their duties, pur -
suant to article 50 Bis of Law no. 18046 on Stock Corpo -
rations, as well as to review or evaluate any other affairs 
that the Directors’ Committee deemed necessary which, in 
a year marked mainly by the Covid-19 pandemic, focused 
mostly on issues regarding the Company’s entering Chap -ter 11 proceedings in the US, and securing financing to deal 
with the drop in revenues as a result of the decrease in 
operations.
Below, is a report of the main issues discussed.
Examination and Review of Balance 
Sheet and Financial Statements
The Directors’ Committee examined and reviewed the Com -
pany’s financial statements as at December 31, 2019, as well 
as at the end of the quarters ended on March 31, June 30, 
and September 30, 2020, in extraordinary Committee meet -
ings on March 3, May 29, August 18, and November 6, 2020, 
respectively, including the examination of the corresponding 
reports from the Company’s external auditors, as explained 
below. In the 4 sessions, PriceWaterhouseCoopers Consultores, 
Auditores y Cía. Limitada  (“PWC”) participated to issue their 
opinion as the Company’s External Auditors. 
Review of Reports on Impairment 
of Cash Generating Units
In the meetings held on March 3, April 6, May 28, October 15, 
and December 21, 2020, the Directors’ Committee discussed 
topics related to the impairment test and analysis of signs of 
impairment of certain assets included in the financial state -
ments in the Air Transportation cash generating unit.
In detail, they discussed the results of the impairment test 
as at December 2019, the analysis of evidence of impair -
ment as at March 31, 2020, the impairment test as at March 
31, analysis of evidence as at September 30, 2020, and pre -
liminary calculations of the test as at December 31, 2020, 
respectively, concluding that there is no evidence of impair -ment warranting the need for the Company to conduct ad -
ditional tests at such dates, or carry out an asset accounting 
adjustment in addition to the one made in March 2020.
Executive and Workers’ Compensation Systems
In the session held on January 20, 2020, the Committee 
reviewed existing remuneration systems and policies and 
compensation plans for the Company's chief executives 
and the workers.
Internal Audit
At the regular Directors’ Committee sessions held on Janu -
ary 20 , March 9, May 4, June 8, July 13, August 10, Septem -
ber 7, and December 21, 2020, issues relating to the Internal 
Audit were reviewed. The status of the Internal Audit Plan 
carried out during 2019 was revised, highlighting the num -
ber of projects that were addressed, the relevant aspects in 
the work carried out, and the presentation of audit reports 
analyzing the highest risks, as well as the presentation and 
approval of the 2020 work plan and the progress of the work 
on that plan.
Audits under SOX regulations
The Directors’ Committee sessions on March 3 and June 8, 
2020, set forth the planning to be followed with regard to 
SOX regulations for the 2020 certification. They also dis -
cussed the results obtained in the SOX certification during 
2019, the most relevant issues to be considered during 2020, 
the Company's projects that, because of their relevance, can 
generate an impact regarding SOX regulations, the main im -
pacts on the control environment of the Covid-19 and Chap -
ter 11 contingencies, and a schedule to be followed in con -
nection with this certification during 2020.Governance structure
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD  
 COMMITTEE’S ADMINISTRATION
112 Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      CreditsAPPENDICES: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
External Audit Services
External Audits Work Plan
•  In the session held on July 13, 2020, External Auditors 
PWC presented the work plan to be followed in the 
field of External Auditing throughout 2020, addressing 
issues related to the regulatory requirements in terms 
of communication and deliverables of the work, the 
composition of the PWC team that renders services to the 
Company, the consolidated audit approach, the progress 
made during the year in the internal control review, and the 
schedule of activities and communications to be followed 
with the members of the Committee. 
•  In the regular session held on November 9, 2020, the 
External Auditors Ernst & Young ("EY"), in charge of the 
external audit of LATAM Brazil, presented on the team, 
scope, and schedule of work of said audit, the results of 
the limited review up to September 30, 2020, the main 
issues to be addressed during 2020, the internal control 
issues–SOX and the next steps to be taken.
Corporate Risk Management
In the session held on September 7, 2020, the Company's 
risk map in the new environment of low activity, Covid-19 
pandemic, and Chapter 11 was reviewed.
Safety and Security
In the Directors’ Committee sessions held on 6 April, Sep -Governance structure
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD COMMITTEE’S ADMINISTRATIONtember 7, and October 5, 2020, a number of information 
security issues were discussed, including the PCI Compliance  
certification process, which validates the protection that the 
company gives to its customers’ credit and debit card infor -
mation, and a presentation on cybersecurity. The session 
held on July 13, 2020, covered issues relating to on-board 
medical safety and Covid-19 protocols.
Compliance
In the regular sessions held on January 20 and September 7, 
2020, The Directors’ Committee received the reports of the 
current Compliance program and its main contents, including 
the commitment of senior management, the rules and laws 
most relevant to the Organization, the development of poli -
cies and standards, training and communications, the coun -
try controls of the status of the Third Party Intermediaries 
("TPIs"), the identification and management of Compliance 
risks, and the Compliance report at the corporate level.
In the session held on November 9, 2020, the MC Compli -
ance team made a presentation to the Committee regarding 
the criminal liability of legal entities and reported and issued 
certification on the new crimes established by law.
LATAM policies
In the session held on January 20, 2020, the proposal for a 
new policy to select external audit services was discussed. In 
that session, the Committee was tasked with assessing the 
proposed policy in detail. Subsequently, in the session held 
on March 9, 2020, this new policy was approved.
Examination of reports pertaining to the Related-
Party Transactions Policy (RPT)  In the committee session held on June 8, 2020, the report -
ing obligation set forth in the RPT Policy was fulfilled; the 
administration informed the Directors’ Committee on: (i) the 
usual transactions held by the LATAM group with those sub -
sidiaries where its stake is less than 95%, (ii) the main trans -
actions held among the LATAM group companies in general, 
and (iii) those transactions disclosed in the note in the finan -
cial statements on related-party transactions. 
Specifically, in the Committee session held on on April 6, 
2020, Qatar's request to defer payment on the subletting 
of five Airbus A350 aircraft that LATAM had subleased to it 
was discussed. After analyzing the matter, it was decided 
to recommend to the Board to make a counterproposal to 
Qatar consisting of transferring to it the conditions that the 
aircraft lessee had proposed to LATAM, the details of which 
were deemed convenient for the Company and adjusted to 
reasonable market terms and conditions, given the circum -
stances at the time. 
In the session held on May 11, the Committee was informed 
that Qatar had replaced the request for deferral in the lease 
payment indicated above with a proposal for early return 
of the five Airbus A350 aircraft that LATAM had sublet to it, 
plus a compensatory payment as a result of the early re -
turn. After analyzing the proposal, the Committee decided to 
propose its approval to the Board, as it was convenient for 
LATAM and the prices, terms, and conditions were reasonable 
and in line with the market, given the prevailing conditions.
In the May 4 session, the JBA with Delta was discussed in 
the context of Article 147 of Law No. 18046 on Joint Stock 
Corporations as Delta joined as a shareholder of the Compa -
113 Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      CreditsAPPENDICES: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
ny. After a detailed analysis, it was concluded that the JBA 
with Delta Airlines is convenient for the Company, among 
other reasons, for the following considerations: (i) Delta's 
very good connectivity in the United States of America; (ii) 
the elimination of "double marginalization" to improve fares; 
(iii) the implementation of a "profit sharing"  plan to incentivize 
and share all the efficiencies achieved in a more competitive 
environment; (iv) the low overlap in the route network of both 
companies; and (v) the possibility of improving the offer to 
customers with competitive prices, a better network of flights 
with lower delays in connections, better customer service, 
and a more robust FFP program. Considering that the trans -
action contributes to the company’s interest and conforms to 
reasonable and market terms and conditions, it was agreed to 
submit to the Board the recommendation to approve the JBA 
with Delta under the terms and conditions described.
Subsequently, in the November 9, 2020 session, and because 
the Company was in the midst of the Chapter 11 proceeding, 
the Committee was informed that a motion of acceptance of 
the JBA with Delta was submitted to the court that knows of 
the Chapter 11, including certain easing clauses related to the 
implementation and termination of said Agreement, consid -
ering the circumstances that LATAM was in; all of the above, 
in the context of Article 147 of Law No. 18046 on Joint Stock 
Corporations. The members of the Committee again agreed 
to submit to the Board the recommendation to approve the 
motion regarding the JBA with Delta.In addition, in the May 24, 2020, session, the Committee 
discussed the proposal to cancel in advance the contract for 
the sale of Airbus A350 airplanes to Delta, with a cancella -
tion penalty that Delta would pay to LATAM. In the adminis -
tration's view, said fine represented a fair value with regard 
to the market prices of the planes. It was further noted that, 
although low risk, not accepting the transaction would call 
jeopardize the reception of outstanding balances from Del -
ta. It was concluded that the transaction contributed to the 
company’s interest and provided for reasonable and market 
price, terms, and conditions, in view of the special circum -
stances at the time. As a result of the above, the Commit -
tee agreed to submit to the Board the recommendation to 
approve the early cancellation of the contract for the sale of 
the Airbus A 350 airplanes to Delta on the terms indicated.
Background Review concerning the 
DIP (Debtor In Possession) Financing 
under the Chapter 11 Proceeding.
In the Directors’ Committee sessions held on on May 25, 24 
June, 4 July, 7 July, 8 July, 15 July, 24 July, 27 July, 28 July, 
29 July, 2 August, 10 August, 11 September, 13 September, 
September 14, September 15, September 16, September 16 , 
October 8, and November 9, 2020, the Directors’ Committee 
reviewed and analyzed the background presented with regard 
to the DIP (Debtor In Possession) Financing under the Chapter 
11 Proceeding, complying with the regulations on related-party 
transactions, in the relevant cases. 
In the session held on May 25, 2020, it is noted that it is nec -
essary to comply fully with the RPT regulations to move for -
ward with the DIP Financing. The Committee concludes that 
the signing of the term sheet Tranche B (current Tranche C) is in the company’s interest and is under conditions comparable 
to market conditions. 
In the session held on May 29, 2020, the committee analyz -
ed the background received from the Costa Verde and Qatar 
shareholders regarding the DIP financing structure. It is tak -
en into account that The Tranche C financing: (a) is open to all 
shareholders, (b) provides that better options/alternatives can 
arise, and (c) that everything must be approved by the judge 
involved in the Chapter 11 proceeding, who can directly receive 
alternative proposals until the time of making the ruling. It is 
set forth that, the DIP Financing under analysis considers rea -
sonable and market price, terms, and conditions for this very 
particular type of transaction. 
In the July 4, 2020 session, they discussed the Support Agree -
ment with Delta, and since it is believed to contribute to the 
company’s interest and consider market prices, terms, and 
conditions for such transactions, they agreed to recommend its 
approval to the Board. 
In the session held on July 8, 2020, the Committee discussed 
the proposal for the DIP Funding for Tranche A. In this regard, 
the Committee concluded that the signing of the Tranche A of 
the DIP Financing agreement with Oaktree is in the company’s 
interest, since it allows LATAM access to the financing that it 
requires to overcome the crisis caused by the Covid-19 pan -
demic, and is in conditions comparable to current market con -
ditions, as it has been the best option after a detailed selection 
process among several bidders.
In the session held on July 28, 2020, the Committee reviewed 
an alternative financing proposal for Tranche C, which contains Governance structure
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD COMMITTEE’S ADMINISTRATION
114 Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      CreditsAPPENDICES: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
improvements on the first offer, and concludes that this trans -
action (Tranche C of the DIP financing by Costa Verde share -
holders, which also considers the Amaro Group and the Eblen 
Group, and Qatar) contributes to the company’s interest, and is 
key to the continuity of the business. In addition, it provides for 
reasonable and market price, terms, and conditions for this very 
particular type of transaction since, on this occasion, it has also 
been possible to compare it to another competitive alternative 
and has proven to be, the most beneficial for the Company.
In the sessions held on July 29 and August 2, 2020, the Com -
mittee analyzed certain changes and improvements to the 
alternative offer and decided to maintain the recommendation 
made in the session held on July 28, 2020.
In the September 11, 2020 session, the Committee was in -
formed of the New York Bankruptcy Court's ruling, as it decided 
not to approve the DIP Financing proposal. However, the same 
ruling also notes that the terms of the DIP Financing are fair 
and reasonable, session the standard of being entirely fair ( en-
tire fairness ), and reflect LATAM's exercise of prudent business 
judgment, consistent with its fiduciary duties.
In the September 16, 2020 session, after reviewing a new DIP 
Financing proposal involving the shareholders headed by Cos -
ta Verde and Qatar and other investors, headed by Jefferies/
Knighthead Capital, the Committee commented on the new 
DIP Financing proposal regarding the requirements of the Joint Stock Corporations Act, concluding that this DIP Financing 
transaction contributes to the company’s interest, as it is key 
to the continuity of the business. In addition, it provides for 
a reasonable and market price, terms, and conditions for this 
very particular type of transaction.
Corporate governance practices
In the sessions held on January 20 and November 9, 2020, 
the Directors’ Committee reviewed the work plan and the 
necessary adjustments to the questionnaire provided for in 
Appendix I to CMF General Standard (NCG, for its Spanish 
acronym) No. 385, under which LATAM's corporate govern -
ance practices for the period are analyzed, for the subse -
quent remittance of this document to the CMF with a view 
to complying with those regulations.
Directors’ Committee Recommendations
On the other hand, the Board Committee issued the recommen -
dations stated further ahead in this annual report regarding the 
appointment of the Company’s external auditors and private risk 
rating agencies for 2020.
Report of Activities by Board Committee Session
The Directors’ Committee met and discussed the opportuni -
ties described below, with a brief example of the topics ex -
amined at each of these sessions:
1) Ordinary session N°206 01/20/2020
•  Remuneration Systems and Compensation Plans for 
Executives and Workers of the Company. 
•  Accounting analysis associated with transaction with Delta 
Airlines. •  Analysis of new policy for the selection of external audit 
services. 
•  Corporate Topics (proposal of external auditors and private 
risk rating agencies for 2020, and approval of Appendix No. 
1 to comply with the CMF’s NCG No. 385). 
• Compliance matters. 
• Status of the Internal Audit Plan 2019.
2) Extraordinary session N°79 03/03/2020
•  Impairment test of the Air Transportation cash generating 
unit (at 12.31.19).
• SOX certification.
• Review of financial statements as at 12.31.2019.
3) Ordinary session N°207 03/09/2020
• HR presentation regarding the exit of the CEO.
• Annual report of the Directors’ Committee’s administration.
•  Approval of the new policy for the selection of external 
audit services. Proposal of external auditors and private risk 
rating agencies for 2020. 
• Internal Audit reports.
4) Ordinary session N°208 04/06/2020
•  Signs of impairment with regard to the Financial Statements 
as at 03.31.2020. Governance structure
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD COMMITTEE’S ADMINISTRATION
115 Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      CreditsAPPENDICES: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
•  Deferral of aircraft lease with Qatar Airways Q.E.S.C. 
("Qatar"). 
•  Treatment of purchases that are not made through the 
Procurement area.
• PCI Compliance 2020 Project.
5) Ordinary session N°209 05/04/2020
• Installing and election of the Committee Chairman. 
•  Trans-American Joint Business Agreement (“JBA”) with 
Delta Air Lines (“Delta”). 
• Internal Audit reports.
6) Extraordinary session N°80 05/11/2020
• Early return of aircraft leased by Qatar.
7) Extraordinary session N°81 05/24/2020
•  Early cancellation of the contract for the sale of A350 
aircraft to Delta.
8) Extraordinary session N°82 05/25/2020
Recommendation concerning the approval and signing of the 
Term Sheet for the so-called Tranche B) of the DIP Financing 
(Debtor In Possession) in the framework of the Chapter 11 
Proceeding.9) Extraordinary session N°83 05/29/2020
•  Impairment test of the Air Transportation cash generating 
unit (at 03.31.20).
• Review of Financial Statements up to March 31, 2020.
10) Ordinary session N°210 06/08/2020
• Internal audit plan 2020.
• SOX plan 2020. 
•  Presentation of tax issues and reporting obligations for 
compliance with the Related-Party Transactions Policy.
11) Extraordinary session N°84 06/24/2020
•  Analysis of the DIP Financing proposal by shareholders Costa 
Verde Aeronáutica S.A. ("Costa Verde") and Qatar.
12) Extraordinary session N°85 07 /04/2020
•  Analysis of progress on the DIP Financing of Tranche A and 
the Support Agreement with Delta.
13) Extraordinary session N°86 07 /07 /2020
• Analysis of progress on the DIP Financing of Tranche A.
14) Extraordinary session N°87 07 /08/2020
•  Analysis of the DIP Financing of Tranche A and 
recommendation to the Board.
15) Ordinary session N°211 7 /12/2020
• Internal Audit reports.•  Protocols for on-board medical safety and Covid-19 
requirements. 
• External auditor PWC plan for 2020.
• Monitoring of a tax issue.
16) Extraordinary session N°88 07 /15/2020
•  Analysis of a new proposal received for Tranche C of the 
DIP financing.
17) Extraordinary session N°89 07 /24/2020
•  Analysis of a new proposal received for Tranche C of the 
DIP financing.
18) Extraordinary session N°90 07 /27 /2020
• Analysis of progress on Tranche C of the DIP Financing.
19) Extraordinary session N°91 07 /28/2020
•  Analysis of progress on Tranche C of the DIP Financing and 
recommendation to the Board.
20) Extraordinary session N°92 07 /29/2020
• Analysis of news on Tranche C of the DIP Financing.
21) Extraordinary session N°93 07 /29/2020
• Analysis of news on Tranche C of the DIP Financing.
22) Extraordinary session N°94 08/02/2020
•  Analysis of news on Tranche C of the DIP Financing and 
recommendation to the Board.Governance structure
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD COMMITTEE’S ADMINISTRATION
116 Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      CreditsAPPENDICES: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
23) Ordinary session N°212 08/10/2020
• Analysis of news on Tranches A and C of the DIP Financing.
•  Relevant accounting topics related to the Financial 
Statements as at June 30, 2020.
• Internal Audit reports and work plan.
24) Extraordinary session N°95 08/18/2020
• Review of Financial Statements up to June 30, 2020.
•  Review of the Monthly Operating Report (MOR) for June 
2020 in the framework of compliance with obligations 
under the Chapter 11 Proceeding.
25) Extraordinary session N°96 08/28/2020
•  Review of the MOR for July 2020 in the framework 
of compliance with obligations under the Chapter 11 
Proceeding.
26) Ordinary session N°213 09/07 /2020
• Compliance matters. 
• PCI Compliance certification. 
• Corporate Risk Management. 
• Internal Audit work plan.27) Extraordinary session N°97 09/11/2020
• Analysis of news on the DIP Financing.
28) Extraordinary session N°98 09/13/2020
• Analysis of news on the DIP Financing.
29) Extraordinary session N°99 09/14/2020
• Analysis of news on the DIP Financing.
30) Extraordinary session N°100 09/15/2020
• Analysis of news on the DIP Financing.
31) Extraordinary session N°101 09/16/2020
•  Analysis of news on the DIP Financing and 
recommendation to the Board.
32) Extraordinary session N°102 09/29/2020
•  Review of the MOR for August 2020 in the framework of 
compliance with obligations under the Chapter 11 Proceeding.
33) Ordinary session N°214 10/05/2020
•  Review status of internal audit carried out on the 
commercial area of LATAM Airlines Brazil Presentation on 
Cybersecurity.
• Presentation on Digital XP.
34) Extraordinary session N°103 10/08/2020
• Analysis of news on the DIP Financing.
35) Extraordinary session N°104 10/15/2020
•  Analysis of signs of Impairment of air transport cash 
generating unit (as at 09.30.20).36) Extraordinary session N°105 10/30/2020
•  Review of the MOR for September 2020 in the framework 
of compliance with obligations under the Chapter 11 
Proceeding.
37) Extraordinary session N°106 11/06/2020
• Review of Financial Statements up to September 30, 2020.
38) Ordinary session N°215 11/09/2020
• Analysis of news on the DIP Financing and fleet negotiation.
• Presentation by firm EY. 
•  Motion for acceptance of the JBA with Delta Airlines and 
recommendation to the Board. 
•  Revision of Appendix No. 1 to the CMF’s NCG No. 385 and 
recommendation to the Board.
•  Presentation by MC Compliance concerning criminal liability 
of legal entities.
39) Extraordinary session N°107 11/30/2020
•  Review of the MOR for October 2020 in the framework of 
compliance with obligations under the Chapter 11 Proceeding.
40) Ordinary session N°216 12/21/2020
•  Review conclusions on the internal audit report carried out 
on the commercial area of LATAM Airlines Brazil.
• Update of fleet negotiations.
• Impairment test as at December 31, 2020.Governance structure
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD COMMITTEE’S ADMINISTRATION
117 Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      CreditsAPPENDICES: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
•  Provisions for Financial Statements as at December 31, 
2020.
• Update on internal audit topics.
41) Extraordinary session N°108 12/29/2020
•  Review of the MOR for November 2020 in the framework 
of compliance with obligations under the Chapter 11 
Proceeding.
III. Directors’ committee 
compensation and expenditures
The Company’s Ordinary Shareholders’ meeting held on April 
30, 2020, agreed that each member of the Directors’ Com -
mittee should receive the equivalent to 80 Unidades de Fo -
mento  (development units, or UF for its Spanish acronym) as 
a monthly stipend for attending the Directors’ Committee’s 
sessions, regardless of the number of sessions. This pro -
posal meant maintaining the compensation approved for the 
previous financial year.
For the operation of the Directors’ Committee and their 
advisers, Law No. 18046 on Joint Stock Corporations pro -
vides that its expenditure budget shall be at least equal to 
the sum of the annual compensation of the members of the 
Committee. In this regard, the Ordinary Shareholders' Meet -
ing approved a budget of 2,880 UF. During 2020 this ex -
penditure budget was not used.As a result, the Directors’ Committee’s spending is related to 
the monthly stipend for attending the sessions, and for fees 
for any counseling that the Directors’ Committee determine.  
IV. Directors’ committee recommendations
IV.1 Proposal for Appointment of External Auditors
In the session of the Directors’ Committee held on March 9, 
2020, and in accordance with the provisions of item (2) of 
article 50 Bis of Law No. 18046 on Joint Stock Corporations, 
it is agreed to propose to the company’s Board of Direc -
tors, based on an analysis of the work of the external au -
ditors and the performance assessment 2019 of the audit 
firms submitted by the Administration, to continue with the 
external auditors already elected and ratified at the Compa -
ny's Ordinary Shareholders' Meeting held on April 25, 2019, 
which is PWC for the parent company, EY for Brazil, and 
PWC for SSCs (in English, other Spanish-speaking countries 
where LATAM operates), further considering that the contract 
signed with PWC is currently in force as a result of the ten -
dering of External Audit services carried out in 2018 by the 
Company, and which includes the rendering of those services 
for the years 2019, 2020, and 2021.
IV.2 Proposal for Private Risk Rating Agencies
In the Board Committee’s session held on April 9, 2020, and 
pursuant to the provisions of item 2), section eight of Arti -
cle 50 Bis of Law N° 18.046 on Joint Stock Corporations, the 
Directors’ Committee agreed to propose to the Board the 
Risk Rating Agencies for the Company’s Ordinary Sharehold -
ers’ Meeting, to be held on April 30, 2020. In this regard, the 
Committee decided to propose to the Company’s Board the appointment of the following local Risk Rating firms: Fitch 
Chile Clasificadora de Riesgo Limitada, Feller-Rate Clasifi -
cadora de Riesgo Limitada, and International Credit Rating 
(ICR) Compañía Clasificadora de Riesgo Limitada. With re -
gard to the international risk rating agencies, the Directors’ 
Committee agreed to propose to the Board the appoint -
ment of the following firms: Fitch Ratings, Inc., Moody's In -
vestors Service, and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services.Governance structure
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD COMMITTEE’S ADMINISTRATION
118 Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      CreditsAPPENDICES: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
Roberto Alvo
CEO LATAM Airlines Group
RUT:  8.823.367-0
Mr. Roberto Alvo is LATAM’s Chief Executive Officer 
(“CEO”), a position he holds since March 31, 2020, prior 
to which he worked as LATAM’s Chief Commercial Offi -
cer (“CCO”), since May 2017, and was responsible of the 
Group’s passenger and cargo revenue management, with 
all the commercial units reporting to him. Previously, 
he was Vice president of International and Alliances at 
LATAM Airlines since 2015, and Vice president of Strate -
gic Planning and Development since 2008. Mr Alvo joi -
ned LAN Airlines in November 2001, where he served as 
Chief Financial Officer of LAN Argentina, as Manager of 
Development and Financial Planning at LAN Airlines, and 
as Deputy Chief Financial Officer of LAN Airlines. Before 
2001, Mr. Alvo held various positions at Sociedad Quími -
ca y Minera de Chile S.A., a leading Chilean non-metallic 
mining company. He is a civil engineer, and holds an MBA 
from IMD in Lausanne, Switzerland.Ramiro Alfonsín
Chief Financial Officer
RUT: 22.357 .225-1
Mr. Ramiro Alfonsín is LATAM’s Chief Financial 
Officer (“CFO”), a position he holds since July 
2016. Over the past 16 years, before joining 
LATAM, he worked for Endesa, a leading uti -
lity company in Spain, Italy and Chile, having 
served as Deputy Chief Executive Officer and 
Chief Financial Officer for their Latin American 
operations. Before joining the utility sector, he 
worked for five years in Corporate and Invest -
ment Banking for several European banks. Mr. 
Alfonsín holds a degree in business adminis -
tration from Pontificia Universidad Católica.Paulo Miranda
Customers Vice president 
RUT: foreigner
Mr. Paulo Miranda is LATAM’s Customers Vice 
president, a position he holds since May 2019. 
Mr. Miranda has over 20 years of experience in 
the aviation industry with different positions 
first at Delta Air Lines in the United States and 
then at Gol Linhas Aereas in Brazil. In his last 
role, Mr. Miranda was responsible for customer 
experience, having previously worked in finan -
ce, alliances as well as on the negotiation and 
implementation of joint ventures. Mr. Miranda 
holds a Business Administration degree from 
the Carlson School of Management at the Uni -
versity of Minnesota, USA.Martin St. George
Chief Commercial Officer 
RUT: foreigner
Mr. Martin St. George joined LATAM Airlines 
Group in 2020 as Chief Commercial Officer 
after a 30+ year career in the airline industry 
in both North America and Europe. Prior to 
joining LATAM, he operated an airline strategy 
consulting practice, where he served airline 
and travel-industry clients in the United 
States, the Caribbean and Europe, including 
a role as interim Chief Commercial Officer at 
Norwegian Air Shuttle ASA. From 2006 to 2019, 
he worked for JetBlue Airways, filling roles in 
marketing, network and ultimately serving as 
Chief Commercial Officer at JetBlue. Mr. St. 
George holds a degree in Civil Engineering from 
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Governance structure
MAIN EXECUTIVES
119 Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      CreditsAPPENDICES: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
Juan Carlos Menció
Vice president of Legal 
Affairs and Compliance
RUT: 24.725.433-1
Mr. Juan Carlos Menció is Vice president of Le -
gal Affairs and Compliance for LATAM Airlines 
Group a position he holds since September 
1, 2014. Mr. Menció previously held the posi -
tion of General Counsel for North America for 
LATAM Airlines Group and its related compa -
nies, as well as General Counsel for its world -
wide Cargo Operations, both since 1998. Prior 
to joining LAN, he was in private practice in 
New York and Florida representing various in -
ternational airlines. Mr. Menció obtained his 
Bachelor’s Degree in International Finance and 
Marketing from the School of Business at the 
University of Miami and his Juris Doctor De -
gree from Loyola University.Hernán Pasman
Chief Operating Officer
RUT: 21.828.810-3  
Mr. Hernán Pasman has been the Vice president 
of Operations, Maintenance and Fleet of LATAM 
airlines group since October, 2015. He joined LAN 
Airlines in 2005 as a head of strategic planning 
and financial analysis of the technical areas. 
Between 2007 and 2010, Mr. Pasman was the 
Chief operating officer of LAN Argentina, then, in 
2011 he served as Chief Executive Officer for LAN 
Colombia. Prior to joining the company, between 
2001 and 2005, Mr. Pasman was a consultant at 
McKinsey & Company in Chicago. Between 1995 
and 2001, Hernan held positions at Citicorp Equity 
Investments, Telefonica de Argentina and Argentina 
Motorola. Mr. Pasman holds a Civil Engineering 
degree from ITBA (1995) and an MBA from 
Kellogg Graduate School of Management (2001).Emilio Del Real
Human Resources Vice president
RUT:  9.908.112-00
Mr. Emilio del Real is LATAM’s Vice president 
of Human Resources, a position he assumed 
in August 2005. Between 2003 and 2005, Mr. 
del Real was the Human Resources Manager 
of D&S, a Chilean retail company. Between 
1997 and 2003 Mr. del Real served in various 
positions at Unilever, including Human Re -
sources Manager of Unilever Chile, and Ma -
nager of Training and Recruitment and Mana -
gement Development for Latin America. Mr. 
del Real has a degree in Psychology from the 
Universidad Gabriela Mistral.
Governance structure
MAIN EXECUTIVES
120 Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      CreditsAPPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS Following the combination of LAN and TAM in June 2012, 
TAM S.A. continues to exist as a subsidiary of Holdco I and a 
subsidiary of LATAM, and LAN Airlines S.A. has been redesig -
nated as “LATAM Airlines Group S.A. ”
Prior to the consummation of the business combination, LATAM 
Airlines Group, the Cueto Group, today a major shareholder, 
entered into several shareholders’ agreements with TAM, the 
Amaro Group (acting through TEP Chile) and Holdco I, establi -
shing agreements and restrictions relating to corporate gover -
nance in an attempt to balance LATAM Airlines Group’s inte -
rests, as the owner of substantially all of the economic rights 
in TAM, and those of the Amaro Group by prohibiting the taking 
of certain specified material corporate actions and decisions 
without prior supermajority approval of the shareholders and/or 
the board of directors of Holdco I or TAM. These shareholders’ 
agreements also set forth the parties’ agreement regarding the 
governance and management of the LATAM Airlines Group fo -
llowing the consummation of the combination of LAN and TAM.
Governance and Management 
of LATAM Airlines Group
We refer to the shareholders’ agreement among the Cueto 
Group and the Amaro Group (acting through TEP Chile), which 
sets forth the parties’ agreement concerning the governance, 
management and operation of the LATAM Airlines Group, and 
voting and transfer of their respective LATAM Airlines Group 
common shares and TEP Chile’s voting shares of Holdco I, as the “Cueto Amaro shareholders’ agreement. ” We refer to the 
shareholders’ agreement between LATAM Airlines Group S.A. 
and TEP Chile, which sets forth agreements concerning the 
governance, management and operation of the LATAM Airlines 
Group, as the “LATAM Airlines Group-TEP shareholders’ agree -
ment. ” The Cueto Amaro shareholders’ agreement and the 
LATAM Airlines Group-TEP shareholders’ agreement set forth 
the parties’ agreement on the governance and management of 
the LATAM Airlines Group following the effective time.
This section describes the key provisions of the Cueto Amaro 
shareholders’ agreement and the LATAM Airlines Group-TEP 
shareholders’ agreement. The description of the LATAM Airli -
nes Group-TEP shareholders’ agreement summarized below 
and elsewhere in this annual report on Form 20-F is qualified 
in its entirety by reference to the full text of such sharehol -
ders’ agreements, which has been filed as exhibit to this an -
nual report on Form 20-F.
Composition of the LATAM Airlines Group Board
Since April 2017, there are no restrictions in the Cueto Amaro 
shareholders’ agreement nor in the LATAM Airlines Group-TEP 
shareholders’ agreement regarding the composition of LATAM 
Airlines Group’s board of directors. Therefore, once elected in 
accordance with Chilean regulation, members of the LATAM 
Airlines Group’s board of directors have the right to appoint 
any member as the chairman of LATAM Airlines Group’s board 
of directors, from time to time, in accordance with the LATAM 
Airlines Group’s by-laws. Accordingly, on May, 2017, on May 
14, 2019 and on April, 30, 2020, Mr. Ignacio Cueto Plaza was 
elected as President of the Board.
On April 1, 2020 and on April 17, 2020 respectively Mr. Juan José Cueto Plaza and Mr. Carlos Heller Solari resigned from the 
LATAM Airlines Group’s board of directors, and as their repla -
cements, the board of directors appointed Mr. Enrique Cueto 
Plaza and Mr. Enrique Ostalé Cambiaso respectively. Both of 
them were elected by the shareholders on the Ordinary Mee -
ting of April, 30th 2020.
Recently, on September 7, 2020 Mr. Giles Agutter resigned 
from the LATAM Airline’s Group’s board of directors, and as his 
replacement, the board of directors appointed Mr. Alexander 
D. Wilcox on October 6, 2020 until the next Ordinary Share -
holders’ Meeting of LATAM which should take place during the 
first quarter of 2021, instance in which the election and re -
newal of the whole Board of Directors will take place.
Management of the LATAM Airlines Group
On September 10, 2019, LATAM announced that Enrique Cueto 
Plaza, Chief Executive Officer of LATAM (“CEO LATAM”) since 
June 2012, who left this position as of March 31, 2020, was be -
ing replaced as of such date by Mr. Roberto Alvo, current Chief 
Commercial Officer of LATAM. The CEO LATAM is the highest 
ranked officer of LATAM Airlines Group and reports directly to 
the LATAM board of directors. The CEO LATAM is charged with 
the general supervision, direction and control of the business 
of the LATAM Airlines Group and certain other responsibilities 
set forth in the LATAM Airlines Group-TEP shareholders’ agree -
ment. After any departure of the current CEO LATAM, our board 
of directors will select his or her successor after receiving the 
recommendation of the Leadership Committee.
The head office of the LATAM Airlines Group continues to be 
located in Santiago, Chile.Ownership structure
SHAREHOLDERS’ AGREEMENTS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 121
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS Governance and Management 
of Holdco I and TAM
We refer to the shareholders’ agreement between us, Holdco I 
and TEP Chile, which sets forth our agreement concerning the 
governance, management and operation of Holdco I, and vo -
ting and transfer of voting shares of Holdco I, as the “Holdco I 
shareholders’ agreement” and to the shareholders’ agreement 
between us, Holdco I, TAM and TEP Chile, which sets forth our 
agreement concerning the governance, management and ope -
ration of TAM and its subsidiaries following the effective time, 
as the “TAM shareholders’ agreement. ” The Holdco I sharehol -
ders’ agreement and the TAM shareholders’ agreement set forth 
the parties’ agreement on the governance and management of 
Holdco I, TAM and its subsidiaries (collectively, the “TAM Group”) 
following the combination of LAN and TAM.
This section describes the key provisions of the Holdco I share -
holders’ agreement and the TAM shareholders’ agreement. The 
description of the Holdco I shareholders’ agreement and the 
TAM shareholders’ agreement summarized below and elsewhere 
in this annual report on Form 20-F are qualified in their enti -
rety by reference to the full text of the aforementioned share -
holders’ agreements, which have been filed as exhibits to this 
annual report on Form 20-F.
Composition of the Holdco I and TAM Boards
The Holdco I shareholders’ agreement and TAM shareholders’ agreement generally provide for identical boards of directors 
and the same chief executive officer at Holdco I and TAM, with 
LATAM appointing two directors and TEP Chile appointing four 
directors (including the chairman of the board of directors).
The Cueto Amaro shareholders’ agreement provides that the 
persons elected by or on behalf of the Cueto Group or the 
Amaro Group to our board of directors must also serve on the 
boards of directors of both Holdco I and TAM.
Management of Holdco I and TAM
The day-to-day business and affairs of Holdco I will be mana -
ged by the TAM Group CEO under the oversight of the board of 
directors of Holdco I. The day-to-day business and affairs of 
TAM will be managed by the TAM Diretoria under the oversight 
of the board of directors of TAM. The TAM Diretoria will be com -
prised of the TAM Group CEO, the TAM CFO, the TAM COO and 
the TAM CCO, currently the CEO of TAM, will be the initial CEO 
of Holdco I and TAM, or the “TAM Group CEO” and any successor 
CEO will be selected by LATAM from three candidates proposed 
by TEP Chile. The TAM Group CEO will have general supervision, 
direction and control of the business and operations of the TAM 
Group (other than the international passenger business of the 
LATAM Airlines Group) and will carry out all orders and resolu -
tions of the board of directors of TAM. The initial chief financial 
officer of TAM, or the “TAM CFO, ” has been jointly selected by 
LATAM and TEP Chile and any successor CFO will be selected by 
TEP Chile from three candidates proposed by LATAM. The chief 
operating officer of TAM, or the “TAM COO, ” and chief commer -
cial officer of TAM, or the “TAM CCO, ” will be jointly selected and 
recommended to the TAM board of directors by the TAM Group 
CEO and TAM CFO and approved by the TAM board of directors. These shareholders’ agreements also regulate the composition 
of the boards of directors of subsidiaries of TAM.
Following the combination, TAM continues to be headquarte -
red in São Paulo, Brazil.
Supermajority Actions
Certain actions by Holdco I or TAM require supermajority appro -
val by the board of directors or the shareholders of Holdco I or 
TAM which effectively require the approval of both LATAM and 
TEP Chile before the specified actions can be taken. Actions 
that require supermajority approval of the Holdco I board of di -
rectors or the TAM board of directors include, as applicable:
•  to approve the annual budget and business plan and the 
multi-year business (which we refer to collectively as the 
“approved plans”), as well as any amendments to these plans;
•  to take or agree to take any action which causes, or will 
reasonably cause, individually, or in the aggregate, any capital, 
operating or other expense of any TAM Company and its 
subsidiaries to be greater than (i) the lesser of 1% of revenue 
or 10% of profit under the approved plans, with respect to 
actions affecting the profit and loss statement, or (ii) the 
lesser of 2% of assets or 10% of cash and cash equivalents 
(as defined by IFRS) as set forth in the approved plan then 
in effect, with respect to actions affecting the cash flow 
statement;
•  to create, dispose of or admit new shareholders to any 
subsidiary of the relevant company, except to the extent 
expressly contemplated in the approved plans;Ownership structure
SHAREHOLDERS’ AGREEMENTS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 122
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS •  to approve the acquisition, disposal, modification or 
encumbrance by any TAM company of any asset greater 
than $15 million or of any equity securities or securities 
convertible into equity securities of any TAM Company 
or other company, except to the extent expressly 
contemplated in the approved plans;
•  to approve any investment in assets not related to the 
corporate purpose of any TAM company, except to the 
extent expressly contemplated in the approved plans;
•  to enter into any agreement in an amount greater than $15 
million, except to the extent expressly contemplated in the 
approved plans;
•  to enter into any agreement related to profit sharing, joint 
ventures, business collaborations, alliance memberships, 
code sharing arrangements, except as approved by the 
business plans and budget then in effect, except to the 
extent expressly contemplated in the approved plans;
•  to terminate, modify or waive any rights or claims of a 
relevant company or its subsidiaries under any arrangement 
in any amount greater than $15 million, except to the extent 
expressly contemplated in the approved plans;
•  to commence, participate in, compromise or settle any material action with respect to any litigation or proceeding in 
an amount greater than $15 million, relating to the relevant 
company, except to the extent expressly permitted in the 
approved plans;
•  to approve the execution, amendment, termination or 
ratification of agreements with related parties, except to the 
extent expressly contemplated in the approved plans;
•  to approve any financial statements, amendments, or any 
accounting, dividend or tax policy of the relevant company;
•  to approve the grant of any security interest or guarantee to 
secure obligations of third parties;
•  to appoint executives other than the Holdco I CEO or the 
TAM Director or to re-elect the then current TAM CEO 
or TAM CFO; and to approve any vote to be cast by the 
relevant company or its subsidiaries in its capacity as a 
shareholder.
Actions requiring supermajority shareholder approval include:
•  to approve any amendments to the by-laws of any relevant 
company or its subsidiaries in respect to the following 
matters: (i) corporate purpose; (ii) corporate capital; (iii) the 
rights inherent to each class of shares and its shareholders; 
(iv) the attributions of shareholder regular meetings or 
limitations to attributions of the board of directors; (v) 
changes in the number of directors or officers; (vi) the term; 
(vii) the change in the corporate headquarters of a relevant 
company; (viii) the composition, attributions and liabilities of management of any relevant company and (ix) dividends 
and other distributions;
•  to approve the dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of a 
relevant company;
•  to approve the transformation, merger, spin-up or any kind 
of corporate re-organization of a relevant company;
•  to pay or distribute dividends or any other kind of 
distribution to the shareholders;
•  to approve the issuance, redemption or amortization of any 
debt securities, equity securities or convertible securities;
•  to approve a plan or the disposal by sale, encumbrance or 
otherwise of 50% or more of the assets, as determined by 
the balance sheet of the previous year, of Holdco I;
•  to approve the disposal by sale, encumbrance of otherwise 
of 50% or more of the assets of a subsidiary of Holdco I 
representing at least 20% of Holdco I or to approve the sale, 
encumbrance or disposition of equity securities such that 
Holdco I loses control;
•  to approve the grant of any security interest or guarantee 
to secure obligations in excess of 50% of the assets of the 
relevant company; and
•  to approve the execution, amendment, termination or 
ratification of acts or agreement with related parties but 
only if applicable law requires approval of such matters.Ownership structure
SHAREHOLDERS’ AGREEMENTS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 123
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS Voting Agreements, Transfers and Other 
Arrangements
Voting Agreements
The Cueto Group and TEP Chile have agreed in the Cue -
to Amaro shareholder’s agreement to vote their respective 
LATAM Airlines Group common shares as follows:
•  the parties agree to vote their LATAM Airlines Group 
common shares to assist the other parties in removing and 
replacing the directors such other parties elected to the 
LATAM Airlines Group board of directors;
•  the parties agree to consult with one another and use their 
good faith efforts to reach an agreement on all actions 
(other than actions requiring supermajority approval under 
Chilean law) to be taken by the LATAM board of directors 
or the LATAM shareholders, and if unable to reach such 
agreement, to follow the proposal made by our board of 
directors;
•  the parties agree to maintain the size of the LATAM Airlines 
Group board of directors at a total of nine directors and 
to maintain the quorum required for action by the LATAM 
Airlines Group board of directors at a majority of the total 
number of directors of the LATAM Airlines Group board of 
directors; and•  if, after good faith efforts to reach an agreement with 
respect to any action that requires supermajority approval 
under Chilean law and a mediation period, the parties do 
not reach such an agreement, then TEP Chile has agreed to 
vote its shares on such supermajority matter as directed 
by the Cueto Group, which we refer to as a “directed vote. ”
The parties to the Holdco I shareholder’s agreement and TAM 
shareholders agreement have agreed to vote their voting 
shares of Holdco I and shares of TAM so as to give effect to 
the agreements with respect to representation on the TAM 
board of directors discussed above.
Transfer Restrictions
Pursuant to the Cueto Amaro shareholders’ agreement, the 
Cueto Group and TEP Chile are subject to certain restrictions 
on sales, transfers and pledges of the LATAM Airlines Group 
common shares and (in the case of TEP Chile only) the vo -
ting shares of Holdco I beneficially owned by them. Except 
for a limited amount of LATAM Airlines Group common sha -
res, neither the Cueto Group nor TEP Chile were permitted 
to sell any of their LATAM Airlines Group common shares, 
and TEP Chile was not permitted to sell its voting shares of 
Holdco I, until June 2015. Since then, sales of LATAM Air -
lines Group common shares by either party are permitted, 
subject to (i) certain limitations on the volume and frequen -
cy of such sales and (ii) in the case of TEP Chile only, TEP 
Chile satisfying certain minimum ownership requirements. 
On or after December 31, 2021, TEP Chile may sell all of its 
LATAM Airlines Group common shares and voting shares of 
Holdco I as a block, subject to (x) approval of the transferee 
by the LATAM board of directors, (y) the condition that the sale not have an adverse effect, and (z) a right of first offer 
in favor of the Cueto Group, which we refer to collectively 
as “block sale provisions. ” An “adverse effect” is defined in 
the Cueto Amaro shareholder’s agreement to mean a ma -
terial adverse effect on our and Holdco I’s ability to own or 
receive the full benefits of ownership of TAM and its sub -
sidiaries or the ability of TAM and its subsidiaries to opera -
te their airline businesses worldwide. The Cueto Group has 
agreed to transfer any voting shares of Holdco I acquired 
pursuant to such right of first offer to LATAM for the same 
consideration paid for such shares.
In addition, TEP Chile may sell all LATAM Airlines Group com -
mon shares and voting shares of Holdco I beneficially ow -
ned by it as a block, subject to satisfaction of the block sale 
provisions, if a release event (as described below) occurs or 
if TEP Chile is required to make two or more directed votes 
during any 24-month period at two meetings (consecutive or 
not) of the shareholders of LATAM Airlines Group held at least 
12 months apart and LATAM Airlines Group has not yet fully 
exercised its conversion option described below. A “relea -
se event” will occur if (i) a capital increase of LATAM Airlines 
Group occurs, (ii) TEP Chile does not fully exercise the pre -
emptive rights granted to it under applicable law in Chile with 
respect to such capital increase in respect of all of its res -
tricted LATAM Airlines Group common shares, and (iii) after 
such capital increase is completed, the individual designated 
by TEP Chile for election to the board of directors of LATAM 
Airlines Group with the assistance of the Cueto Group is not 
elected to the board of directors of LATAM Airlines Group.
In addition, after December 31, 2021 and after the occu -Ownership structure
SHAREHOLDERS’ AGREEMENTS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 124
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS rrence of the full ownership trigger date TEP Chile may sell 
all or any portion of its LATAM Airlines Group common sha -
res, subject to (x) a right of first offer in favor of the LATAM 
Controlling Shareholders and (y) the restrictions on sales of 
LATAM Airlines Group common shares more than once in a 
12-month period.
In addition, after December 31, 2021 and after the occurren -
ce of the full ownership trigger date, TEP Chile may sell all 
or any portion of its LATAM Airlines Group common shares, 
subject to (x) a right of first offer in favor of the Cueto Group 
and (y) the restrictions on sales of LATAM Airlines Group 
common shares more than once in a 12-month period.
The Cueto Amaro shareholders agreement provides certain 
exceptions to these restrictions on transfer for certain ple -
dges of LATAM Airlines Group common shares made by the 
parties and for transfers to affiliates, in each case under cer -
tain limited circumstances.
Restriction on transfer of TAM shares
LATAM agreed in the Holdco I shareholders’ agreement not to 
sell or transfer any shares of TAM stock to any person (other 
than our affiliates) at any time when TEP Chile owns any vo -
ting shares of Holdco I. However, LATAM will have the right to 
effect such a sale or transfer if, at the same time as such sale 
or transfer, LATAM (or its assignee) acquires all the voting sha -res of Holdco I beneficially owned by TEP Chile for an amount 
equal to TEP Chile’s then current tax basis in such shares and 
any costs TEP Chile is required to incur to effect such sale or 
transfer. TEP Chile has irrevocably granted us the assignable ri -
ght to purchase all of the voting shares of Holdco I beneficially 
owned by TEP Chile in connection with any such sale.
Conversion Option
Pursuant to the Cueto Amaro shareholders’ agreement 
and the Holdco I shareholders’ agreement, we have the 
unilateral right to convert our shares of non-voting stock 
of Holdco I into shares of voting stock of Holdco I to the 
maximum extent allowed under law and to increase our 
representation on the TAM and Holdco I boards of directors 
if and when permitted in accordance with foreign ownership 
control laws in Brazil and other applicable laws if the 
conversion would not have an adverse effect. In February 
2019, we completed the procedures for the exchange 
of shares of Holdco I S.A., through which LATAM Airlines 
Group SA increased its indirect participation in TAM S.A., 
from 48.99% to 51.04%. This transaction was undertaken 
pursuant to the Provisional Measure 863/2018 of December 
13, 2018, through which the participation of up to 100% 
of foreign capital in airlines in Brazil is permitted.
On or after December 31, 2021, and after we have fully 
converted all of our shares of non-voting stock of Holdco 
I into shares of voting stock of Holdco I as permitted by 
Brazilian law and other applicable laws, we will have the 
right to purchase all of the voting shares of Holdco I held 
by the controlling shareholders of TAM for an amount equal 
to their then current tax basis in such shares and any costs incurred by them to effect such sale, which amount we 
refer to as the “sale consideration. ” If we do not timely 
exercise our right to purchase these shares or if, after 
December 31, 2021, we have the right under applicable 
law in Brazil and other applicable law to fully convert all 
the shares of non-voting stock of Holdco I beneficially 
owned by us into shares of voting stock of Holdco I and 
such conversion would not have an adverse effect but 
we have not fully exercised such right within a specified 
period, then the controlling shareholders of TAM will have 
the right to put their shares of voting stock of Holdco I 
to us for an amount equal to the sale consideration.
Acquisitions of TAM Stock
The parties have agreed that all acquisitions of TAM com -
mon shares by LATAM Airlines Group, Holdco I, TAM or any 
of their respective subsidiaries from and after the effective 
time of the combination will be made by Holdco I.Ownership structure
SHAREHOLDERS’ AGREEMENTS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 125
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS Industry context
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
Below is a brief reference to the material effects of aeronau -
tical and other regulations in force in the relevant jurisdictions 
in which LATAM group operates. LATAM group is subject to the 
jurisdiction of various regulatory and enforcement agencies in 
each of the countries where we operate. We believe we have 
obtained and maintain the necessary authority, including au -
thorizations and operative certificates where required, which 
are subject to ongoing compliance with statutes, rules and 
regulations pertaining to the airline industry, including any 
rules and regulations that may be adopted in the future.
The countries where the group does most of its operations 
are contracting states and permanent members of the ICAO, 
an agency of the United Nations established in 1947 to assist 
in the planning and development of international air trans -
portation. The ICAO establishes technical standards for the 
international aviation industry. In the absence of an appli -
cable local regulation concerning safety or maintenance, the 
countries where LATAM group operates have incorporated 
by reference the majority of the ICAO’s technical standards. 
LATAM group deems that it is in material compliance with all 
such relevant technical standards.Environmental and Noise Regulation
There are no material environmental regulations or controls 
imposed upon airlines, applicable to aircraft, or that other -
wise affect us, except for environmental laws and regulations 
of general applicability.
In Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru and the United 
States, aircraft must comply with certain noise restrictions. 
LATAM’s aircraft substantially comply with all such restric -
tions. Chilean authorities are planning to pass a noise-relat -
ed regulation governing aircraft that fly to and within Chile, 
observing a standard known as “Stage 3 requirements. ” Our 
fleet already complies with such standards, so we do not 
believe that enactment of the proposed standards would im -
pose a material burden on us.
In 2016, the ICAO adopted a resolution creating the Carbon 
Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation 
(CORSIA), providing a framework for a global market-based 
measure to stabilize CO2 emissions in international civil avi -
ation (i.e., civil aviation flights that depart in one country 
and arrive in a different country). With the adoption of this 
framework, the aviation industry became the first industry to 
achieve an agreement with respect to its CO2 emissions. The 
scheme, which defines a unified standard to regulate CO2 
emissions in international flights, will be implemented in var -
ious phases by ICAO member states starting in 2020.Safety and Security
Our operations are subject to the jurisdiction of various 
agencies in each of the countries where we operate, which 
set standards and requirements for the operation of aircraft 
and its maintenance.
In the United States, the Aviation and Transportation Secu -
rity Act requires, among other things, the implementation 
of certain security measures by airlines and airports, such 
as the requirement that all passenger bags be screened for 
explosives. Funding for airline and airport security required 
under the Aviation Security Act is provided in part by a 
US$5.60 per segment passenger security fee, subject to a 
US$11.20 per roundtrip cap; however, airlines are respon -
sible for costs in excess of this fee. Implementation of the 
requirements of the Aviation Security Act has resulted in 
increased costs for airlines and their passengers. Since the 
events of September 11, 2001, the United States Congress 
has mandated, and the TSA has implemented, numerous 
security procedures and requirements that have imposed 
and will continue to impose burdens on airlines, passen -
gers and shippers.
Below are some specific aeronautical regulations related 
to route rights and pricing policy in the countries where we 
operate.
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 126
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS Chile
Aeronautical Regulation
Both the DGAC and the Junta de Aeronáutica Civil (“JAC”) 
oversee and regulate the Chilean aviation industry. The DGAC 
reports directly to the Chilean Air Force and is responsible 
for supervising compliance with Chilean laws and regulations 
relating to air navigation. The JAC is the Chilean civil aviation 
authority. Primarily on the basis of Decree Law No. 2,564, 
which regulates commercial aviation, the JAC establishes the 
main commercial policies for the aviation industry in Chile 
and regulates the assignment of international routes and 
the compliance with certain insurance requirements, while 
the DGAC regulates flight operations, including personnel, 
aircraft and security standards, air traffic control and airport 
management. We have obtained and maintain the neces -
sary authority from the Chilean government to conduct flight 
operations, including authorization certificates from the JAC 
and technical operative certificates from the DGAC, the con -
tinuation of which is subject to the ongoing compliance with 
applicable statutes, rules and regulations pertaining to the 
airline industry, including any rules and regulations that may 
be adopted in the future.
Chile is a contracting state, as well as a permanent mem -
ber, of the ICAO. Chilean authorities have incorporated ICAO’s 
technical standards for the international aviation industry into Chilean laws and regulations. In the absence of an appli -
cable Chilean regulation concerning safety or maintenance, 
the DGAC has incorporated by reference the majority of the 
ICAO’s technical standards. We believe that we are in material 
compliance with all such relevant technical standards.
Route Rights
Domestic Routes:  Chilean airlines are not required to obtain 
permits in order to carry passengers or cargo on any domes -
tic routes, but only to comply with the technical and insur -
ance requirements established respectively by the DGAC and 
the JAC. There are no regulatory barriers that would prevent 
a foreign airline from creating a Chilean subsidiary and en -
tering the Chilean domestic market using that subsidiary. 
On January 18, 2012 the Secretary of Transportation and 
the Secretary of Economics of Chile announced a unilateral 
opening of the Chilean domestic skies. This was confirmed 
on November 2013, and has been in force since that date.
International Routes:  As an airline providing services on in -
ternational routes, LATAM is also subject to a variety of bi -
lateral civil air transportation agreements that provide for 
the exchange of air traffic rights between Chile and various 
other countries. There can be no assurance that existing bi -
lateral agreements between Chile and foreign governments 
will continue, and a modification, suspension or revocation of 
one or more bilateral treaties could have a material adverse 
effect on our operations and financial results.
International route rights, as well as the corresponding land -
ing rights, are derived from a variety of air transportation 
agreements negotiated between Chile and foreign govern -ments. Under such agreements, the government of one 
country grants the government of another country the right 
to designate one or more of its domestic airlines to oper -
ate scheduled services to certain destinations of the former 
and, in certain cases, to further connect to third-country 
destinations. In Chile, when additional route frequencies to 
and from foreign cities become available, any eligible airline 
may apply to obtain them. If there is more than one appli -
cant for a route frequency, the JAC awards it through a pub -
lic auction for a period of five years. The JAC grants route 
frequencies subject to the condition that the recipient airline 
operate them on a permanent basis. If an airline fails to 
operate a route for a period of six months or more, the JAC 
may terminate its rights to that route. International route 
frequencies are freely transferable. In the past, we have 
generally paid only nominal amounts for international route 
frequencies obtained in uncontested auctions.
Airfare Pricing Policy
Chilean airlines are permitted to establish their own domes -
tic and international fares without government regulation. 
For more information, see “—Antitrust Regulation” below. 
In 1997, the Antitrust Commission approved and imposed 
a specific self-regulatory fare plan for our domestic opera -
tions in Chile consistent with the Antitrust Commission’s di -
rective to maintain a competitive environment. According to 
this plan, we must file notice with the JAC of any increase or 
decrease in standard fares on routes deemed “non-compet -
itive” by the JAC and any decrease in fares on “competitive” 
routes at least 20 days in advance. We must file notice with 
the JAC of any increase in fares on “competitive” routes at 
least 10 days in advance. In addition, the Chilean authorities Industry context
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 127
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS now require that we justify any modification that we make 
to our fares on non-competitive routes. We must also ensure 
that our average yields on a non-competitive route are not 
higher than those on competitive routes of similar distance.
Argentina
Aeronautical Regulation
Both the (ANAC Argentina and the Ministry of Transport over -
see and regulate the Argentinean aviation industry. ANAC 
regulates flight operations, including personnel, aircraft and 
security standards, air traffic control and airport manage -
ment, and reports directly to the Ministry of Transport. ANAC 
also is responsible for supervising compliance with Argentine -
an laws and regulations relating to air navigation. The Ministry 
of Transport regulates the assignment of international routes 
and matters related to tariff regulation policies. We have ob -
tained and maintain the necessary authorizations from the 
Argentinean government to conduct flight operations, includ -
ing authorization certificates and technical operative certifi -
cates from ANAC, the continuation of which is subject to the 
ongoing compliance with applicable statutes, rules and reg -
ulations pertaining to the airline industry, including any rules 
and regulations that may be adopted in the future.
Argentina is a contracting state and a permanent member 
of the ICAO, an agency of the United Nations established in 1947 to assist in the planning and development of interna -
tional air transport. The ICAO establishes technical stand -
ards for the international aviation industry, which Argen -
tinean authorities have incorporated into Argentinean laws 
and regulations. In the absence of applicable Argentinean 
regulation concerning safety or maintenance, the ANAC has 
incorporated by reference the majority of the ICAO’s tech -
nical standards. We believe that we are in material compli -
ance with all such relevant technical standards.
Route Rights
International Routes: As an airline providing services on in -
ternational routes, LATAM Argentina is also subject to a va -
riety of bilateral civil air transport agreements that provide 
for the exchange of air traffic rights between Argentina and 
various other countries. There can be no assurance that ex -
isting bilateral agreements between Argentina and foreign 
governments will continue. Furthermore, a modification, 
suspension or revocation of one or more bilateral treaties 
could have a material adverse effect on our operations and 
financial results.
International route rights, as well as the corresponding land -
ing rights, are derived from a variety of air transport agree -
ments negotiated between Argentina and foreign govern -
ments. Under such agreements, the government of one 
country grants the government of another country the right 
to designate one or more of its domestic airlines to oper -
ate scheduled services to certain destinations of the former 
and, in certain cases, to further connect to third-country 
destinations. In Argentina, when additional route frequen -
cies to and from foreign cities become available, any eligible airline may apply to obtain them. ANAC grants route fre -
quencies subject to the condition that the recipient air -
line operate them on a permanent basis. If an airline fails 
to operate a route for a period of six months or more, the 
ANAC may terminate its rights to that route.
Airfare Pricing Policy
Argentine airlines are permitted to establish their own 
international fares without government regulation, as 
long as they do not abuse any dominant market position 
they may enjoy. In the case of domestic flights, govern -
ment-fixed maximum prices were in place until February 
3, 2016, when the government eliminated the controls 
that limited maximum prices. However, there remain gov -
ernment-fixed minimum prices for one-way tickets, and 
also for tickets sold within 30 days before the flight. Pric -
es for roundtrip tickets sold 30 days or more before the 
flight were de-regulated on July 31, 2018.
Peru
Aeronautical Regulation
The Peruvian Dirección General de Aeronáutica Civil  (the 
“PDGAC”) oversees and regulates the Peruvian aviation 
industry. The PDGAC reports directly to the Ministry of 
Transportation and Communications and is responsible for 
supervising compliance with Peruvian laws and regulations 
relating to air navigation. In addition, the PDGAC regulates 
the assignment of national and international routes, and 
the compliance with certain insurance requirements, and it 
regulates flight operations, including personnel, aircraft and 
security standards, air traffic control and airport manage -Industry context
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 128
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS ment. We have obtained and maintain the necessary au -
thorizations from the Peruvian government to conduct flight 
operations, including authorization and technical operative 
certificates, the continuation of which is subject to the on -
going compliance with applicable statutes, rules and regu -
lations pertaining to the airline industry, including any rules 
and regulations that may be adopted in the future.
Peru is a contracting state and a permanent member of the 
ICAO. The ICAO establishes technical standards for the interna -
tional aviation industry, which Peruvian authorities have incor -
porated into Peruvian laws and regulations. In the absence of 
an applicable Peruvian regulation concerning safety or mainte -
nance, the PDGAC has incorporated by reference the majori -
ty of the ICAO’s technical standards. We believe that we are in 
material compliance with all relevant technical standards.
Route Rights
Domestic Routes: Peruvian airlines are required to obtain 
permits in connection with carrying passengers or cargo on 
any domestic routes and to comply with the technical re -
quirements established by the PDGAC. Non-Peruvian airlines 
are not permitted to provide domestic air service between 
destinations in Peru.
International Routes:  As an airline providing services on in -
ternational routes, LATAM Peru is also subject to a variety of bilateral civil air transport agreements that provide for 
the exchange of air traffic rights between Peru and various 
other countries. There can be no assurance that existing bi -
lateral agreements between Peru and foreign governments 
will continue, and a modification, suspension or revocation 
of one or more bilateral treaties could have a material ad -
verse effect on our operations and financial results.
International route rights, as well as the corresponding 
landing rights, are derived from a variety of air transport 
agreements negotiated between Peru and foreign govern -
ments. Under such agreements, the government of one 
country grants the government of another country the right 
to designate one or more of its domestic airlines to oper -
ate scheduled services to certain destinations of the former 
and, in certain cases, to further connect to third-country 
destinations. In Peru, when additional route frequencies to 
and from foreign cities become available, any eligible airline 
may apply to obtain them. If there is more than one appli -
cant for a route frequency, the PDGAC awards it through a 
public auction for a period of four years. The PDGAC grants 
route frequencies subject to the condition that the recipient 
airline operate them on a permanent basis. If an airline fails 
to operate a route for a period of 90 days or more, the PD -
GAC may terminate its rights to that route. In the last two 
years the PDGAC has revoked the unused route frequencies 
of a couple Peruvian operators.Ecuador
Aeronautical Regulation
There are two institutions that control commercial aviation 
on behalf of the State: (i) The Consejo Nacional de Aviación 
Civil (the “CNAC”), which directs aviation policy; and (ii) ( the 
“DGAC”), which is a technical regulatory and control agen -
cy. The CNAC issues operating permits and grants operat -
ing concessions to national and international airlines. It also 
issues opinions on bilateral and multilateral air transportation 
treaties, allocates routes and traffic rights, and approves joint 
operating agreements such as wet leases and shared codes.
Fundamentally, the DGAC is responsible for:
•  ensuring that the national standards and technical 
regulations and international ICAO standards and 
regulations are observed;
•  keeping records on insurance, airworthiness and licenses 
of Ecuadorian civil aircraft;
• maintaining the National Aircraft Registry;
• issuing licenses to crews;
• controlling air traffic control inside domestic air space;
• approving shared codes; and
• modifying operations permits.Industry context
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 129
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS The EDGAC also must comply with the standards and rec -
ommended methods of ICAO since Ecuador is a signatory of 
the 1944 Chicago Convention.
Route Rights
Domestic Routes: Airlines must obtain authorization from 
CNAC (an operating permit or concession) to provide air 
transportation. For domestic operations, only companies in -
corporated in Ecuador can operate locally, and only Ecuado -
rian-licensed aircraft and dry leases are authorized to oper -
ate domestically.
International Routes: Permits for international operations 
are based on air transportation treaties signed by Ecuador 
or, otherwise, the principle of reciprocity is applied. All air -
lines doing business in Latin America that are incorporated in 
countries that are members of the Comunidad Andina de Na -
ciones  (the Andean Community, or “CAN”) obtain their traffic 
rights on the basis of decisions currently in force under that 
regime, in particular decision N°582 of 2004, which guaran -
tee free access to markets, with no type of restriction except 
technical considerations.
Airfare Pricing Policy
On October 13, 2011, The Statutory Law of Regulation and 
Control of the Market Power was passed with a purpose to 
avoid, prevent, correct, eliminate and sanction the abuse of economic operators with market power, as well as to sanction 
restrictive, disloyal and agreements involving collusive practices. 
This Law creates a new public entity as the maximum authority 
of application and establishes the procedures of investigation 
and the applicable sanctions, which are severe. Rates are not 
regulated and are subject only to registration. In general, bilat -
eral treaties regarding air transportation provide for airfares to 
be regulated by the regulation of the country of origin.
Brazil
Aeronautical Regulation
The Brazilian aviation industry is regulated and overseen 
by the ANAC. The ANAC reports directly to the Civil Avia -
tion Secretary, which is subordinated by the Federal Exec -
utive Power of this country. Primarily on the basis of Law 
No. 11.182/2005, the ANAC was created to regulate com -
mercial aviation, air navigation, the assignment of domestic 
and international routes, compliance with certain insurance 
requirements, flight operations, including personnel, air -
craft and security standards, air traffic control, in this case 
sharing its activities and responsibilities with the Depar -
tamento de Controle do Espaço Aéreo  (Department of Air -
space Control or “DECEA”), which is a public secretary also 
subordinated to the Brazilian Defense Ministry, and airport 
management, in this last case sharing responsibilities with 
the Empresa Brasileira de Infra-Estrutura Aeroportuária  (the 
Brazilian Airport Infrastructure Company, or “INFRAERO”), 
a public company that was created by Law No. 5862/72, 
and is responsible for administrating, operating and explor -
ing Brazilian airports industrially and commercially (with the 
exception of airports granted to private initiative).We have obtained and maintain the necessary authori -
ty from the Brazilian government to conduct flight opera -
tions, including authorization and technical operative cer -
tificates from ANAC, the continuation of which is subject 
to ongoing compliance with applicable statutes, rules and 
regulations pertaining to the airline industry, including any 
rules and regulations that may be adopted in the future.
ANAC is the Brazilian civil aviation authority and it is re -
sponsible for supervising compliance with Brazilian laws 
and regulations relating to air navigation. Brazil is a con -
tracting state and a permanent member of the ICAO. The 
ICAO establishes technical standards for the international 
aviation industry, which Brazilian authorities, represented 
by the Brazilian Defense Ministry, have incorporated into 
Brazilian laws and regulations. In the absence of an ap -
plicable Brazilian regulation concerning safety or mainte -
nance, ANAC has incorporated by reference the majority of 
the ICAO’s technical standards.
Route Rights
Domestic Routes: Brazilian airlines operate under a public 
services concession, and for that reason Brazilian airlines are 
required to obtain a concession to provide passenger and 
cargo air transportation services from the Brazilian author -
ities. In addition, an Air Operator Certificate (“AOC”) is also 
required for Brazilian Airlines to provide regular domestic 
passenger or cargo transportation services. Brazilian Airlines 
also need to comply with all technical requirements estab -
lished by the Brazilian Aviation Authority (ANAC). Based on 
the Brazilian Aeronautical Code (“CBA”) established by Bra -
zilian Federal Law No. 7,565/86, there are no limitations to Industry context
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 130
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS ownership of Brazilian airlines by foreign investors. The CBA 
also states that non-Brazilian airlines are not authorized to 
provide domestic air transportation services in Brazil.
International Routes:  Brazilian and non-Brazilian airlines 
providing services on international routes are also subject to 
a variety of bilateral civil air transport agreements that pro -
vide for the exchange of air traffic rights between Brazil and 
various other countries. International route rights, as well as 
the corresponding landing rights, are derived from a varie -
ty of air transport agreements negotiated between Brazil 
and foreign governments. Under such agreements, the gov -
ernment of one country grants the government of another 
country the right to designate one or more of its domestic 
airlines to operate scheduled services to certain destinations 
of the former and, in certain cases, to further connect to 
third-country destinations. In Brazil, when additional route 
frequencies to and from foreign cities become available, any 
eligible airline may apply to obtain them. If there is more 
than one applicant for a route frequency ANAC must car -
ry out a public bid and award it to the elected airline. ANAC 
grants route frequencies subject to the condition that the 
recipient airline operate them on a permanent basis. ANAC’s 
resolution 491/18 indicates the requirements to establish 
the underuse of a frequency, and how it could be revoked 
and reassigned. This provision of the resolution came into 
force on September 2019.Airfare Pricing Policy
Brazilian and non-Brazilian airlines are permitted to establish 
their own international and domestic fares, in this last case 
only for Brazilian airlines, without government regulation, 
as long as they do not abuse any dominant market posi -
tion they may enjoy. Airlines may file complaints before the 
Antitrust Court with respect to monopolistic or other pricing 
practices by other airlines that violate Brazil’s antitrust laws.
Colombia
Aeronautical Regulation
The governmental entity in charge of regulating, directing 
and supervising civil aviation in Colombia is the Aeronáutica 
Civil (the “AC”), a technical agency ascribed to the Ministry of 
Transportation. The AC is the aeronautical authority for the 
entire domestic territory, in charge of regulating and super -
vising the Colombian air space. The AC may interpret, apply 
and complement all civil aviation and air transportation regu -
lation to ensure compliance with the Colombian Aeronautical 
Regulations (“RAC”). The AC also grants the necessary per -
mits for air transportation. 
Route Rights
The AC grants operation permits to domestic and foreign 
carriers that intend to operate in, from and to Colombia. In 
the case of Colombian airlines, in order to obtain the op -
erational permit, the company must comply with the RAC 
and fulfill legal, economic and technical requirements, to 
later be subject to public hearings where the public con -
venience and necessity of the service is considered. The 
same process must be followed to add national or interna -tional routes; whose concession is subject to the bilateral 
instruments entered into by Colombia. The only excep -
tion for not complying with the public hearing procedure is 
that the application comes from a country member of the 
CAN, or that the route or permit being applied for is part 
of a deregulated regime. Even if it does not go through 
the public hearing process, the airline must submit a com -
plete study to the AC and the request is made public on 
the website of the authority. Routes cannot be transferred 
under any circumstance and there is no limit to foreign in -
vestment in domestic airlines.
Airfare Pricing Policy
Since July 2007, as stated in resolution 3299 of the Aero -
nautical Civil entity, bottom level airfares for both interna -
tional and domestic transportation were eliminated. Under 
resolution 904 issued in February 2012, the Aeronautical 
Civil authority ceased to impose the obligation of charging 
a fuel surcharge for both domestic and international trans -
portation of passengers and cargo. As of April 1, 2012, air 
carriers may now freely decide whether or not to charge a 
fuel surcharge. In the case that a fuel surcharge is charged, 
it must be part of the fare, but shall be informed separate -
ly on the tickets, advertising or other methods of marketing 
used by the company.
In the same line, as of April 1, 2012, there is no longer any 
restriction on maximum fares published by the airlines or 
with respect to the obligations for air carriers to report to 
the Aeronautical civil authority the fares and conditions the 
day after being published.Industry context
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 131
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS Administrative fares are not subject to any changes, and its 
charge is mandatory for the transport of passengers under 
Aeronautical Civil Regulations. Differential administrative 
fares apply to ticket sales made through Internet channels.
Antitrust Regulation
The Chilean antitrust authority, which we refer to as the 
National Economic Prosecutor Office (“FNE” by its Spanish 
name), oversees and investigates antitrust matters, which are 
governed by Decree Law No. 211 of 1973, as amended, or the 
“Antitrust Law. ” The Antitrust Law states as anticompetitive, 
any conduct that prevents, restricts or hinders competition, 
or sets out to produce said effects.
The Antitrust Law continues by giving examples of the fol -
lowing anticompetitive conducts: (i) cartels; (ii) abuse of 
dominance; and (iii) interlocking. The Antitrust Law defines 
abusive practices as “The abusive exploitation on the part of 
an economic agent, or a group thereof, of a dominant position in 
the market, fixing sale or purchase prices, imposing on a sale the 
acquisition of another product, allocating territories or market 
quotas or imposing similar abuses on others; as well as predato -
ry practices, or unfair competition, carried out with the purpose 
of reaching, maintaining or increasing a dominant position.”
An aggrieved person may sue for damages arising from a 
breach of Antitrust Law by suing in the Chilean Competition Court (the “TDLC” by its Spanish name). The TDLC has the 
authority to impose a variety of sanctions for violations of 
the Antitrust Law, including: (i) the amendment or termina -
tion of acts and contracts; (ii) the amendment or dissolu -
tion of legal entities involved in the punished conducts; and/
or (iii) the imposition a fine up to 30% of the sales of the 
infringing entity corresponding to the line of products and/
or services associated to the infraction, during the entire 
term for which the infringement lasted; alternatively, a fine 
equal to the double of the economic benefit obtained by 
the infringing company; and when none of these alternatives 
can be applied, a fine up to USD 50,000,000 approximately 
(60,000 UTA).
In the Resolution N°445 of August 1995, within the context 
of a merger control transaction, the TDLC approved the right 
to require (OR THE REQUIREMENT FOR) the merged airline to 
be held to a specific self-regulatory fare plan for the domes -
tic air passenger market, consistent with the TDLC’s directive 
to maintain a competitive environment within the domestic 
market. This Airfare Pricing Policy Plan was updated by the 
TDLC particularly to maintain it objective which consists of 
a tariff regulation, through which maximum rates are estab -
lished on non-competitive routes under a monthly compli -
ance scheme.
Since October 1997, LATAM and LATAM Chile follow a 
self-regulatory plan, which was modified and approved by the 
TDLC in July 2005, and further in September 2011. In Febru -
ary 2010, the FNE closed the investigation initiated in 2007 
regarding our compliance with this self-regulatory plan and 
no further observations were made.As a condition to the combination between LAN and TAM in 
June 2012, the antitrust authorities in Chile and Brazil each 
imposed certain mitigation measures as part of their ap -
proval of the merger transaction. Furthermore, the asso -
ciation was also submitted to the antitrust authorities in 
Germany, Italy and Spain. All these jurisdictions granted un -
conditional clearances for this transaction. The merger was 
filed with the Argentinean antitrust authorities; which ap -
proval is still pending. For more information regarding these 
mitigation measures please see below:
Chile
On September 21, 2011, the TDLC issued a decision (the 
“Decision”) with respect to the consultation procedure ini -
tiated on January 28, 2011 in connection with the combi -
nation between LAN and TAM. The TDLC, in the Decision, 
approved the proposed combination between LAN and TAM, 
subject to 14 conditions, as generally described below:
1.   exchange of certain slots in the Guarulhos Airport at São 
Paulo, Brazil;
2.  extension of the frequent flyer program to airlines oper -
ating or willing to operate the Santiago-São Paulo, San -
tiago-Río de Janeiro, Santiago-Montevideo and Santia -
go-Asunción routes during the five-year period from the 
effective time of the combination;
3.  execution of interline agreements with airlines operat -
ing the Santiago-São Paulo, Santiago-Río de Janeiro and 
Santiago-Asunción routes;Industry context
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 132
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS 4.  certain capacity and other transitory restrictions applica -
ble to the Santiago-São Paulo route;
5.  certain amendments to LAN’s self-regulatory fare plan ap -
proved by the TDLC with respect to LAN’s domestic pas -
senger business;
6.  the obligation of LATAM to renounce to one global airline 
alliance within 24 months from the date in which the com -
bination becomes effective, except in the case that the 
TDLC approves otherwise, or to elect not to participate in 
any global airline alliance;
7.  certain restrictions on code-sharing agreements outside 
the global airline alliance to which LATAM belongs for routes 
with origin or destination in Chile or that connect to North 
America and Europe, or with Avianca/TACA or Gol for inter -
national routes in South America, including the obligation 
to consult with, and obtain approval from, the TDLC prior to 
its execution of certain of those codeshare agreements;
8.  the abandonment of four air traffic frequencies with fifth 
freedom rights between Chile and Peru and limitations on 
acquiring in excess of 75%, as applicable, of the air traf -
fic frequencies in that route and the period that certain 
air traffic frequencies may be granted by the Chilean air 
transport authorities to LATAM;9.  issuance of a statement by LATAM supporting the uni -
lateral opening of the Chilean domestic skies ( cabotage ) 
and abstention from any actions that would prevent such 
opening;
10.  promotion by LATAM of the growth and normal opera -
tion of the Guarulhos (Brazil) and Arturo Merino Benítez 
(Chile) airports, to facilitate access thereto to other 
airlines;
11.  certain restrictions regarding incentives to travel 
agencies;
12.  to maintain temporarily 12 round trip flights per week 
between Chile and the United States and at least seven 
round trip non-stop flights per week between Chile and 
Europe;
13.  certain transitory restrictions on increasing fares in the 
Santiago-São Paulo and Santiago-Río de Janeiro routes 
for the passenger business and for the Chile-Brazil routes 
for the cargo business; and
14.  engaging an independent consultant, expert in airline op -
erations, which for 36 months, and in coordination with 
the FNE, will monitor and audit compliance with the con -
ditions imposed by the Decision.
On or about June 2015, the FNE initiated a legal claim 
against LATAM before the TDLC alleging that LATAM was 
not complying with certain mitigation conditions related to 
the code share agreements with airlines outside LATAM’s global alliance as referenced above. Although LATAM op -
posed this allegation and responded the claim according -
ly, a settlement agreement was reached between the FNE 
and LATAM (the “Settlement Agreement”). The Settlement 
Agreement approved by the TDLC on December 22, 2015 
terminated the legal proceeding initiated by the FNE and 
did not establish any violation of the TDLC resolutions or 
any applicable antitrust regulations by LATAM. The Set -
tlement Agreement did establish the obligation of LATAM 
to amend/terminate certain code share agreements and 
contract an independent third party consultant, which 
would act as an advisor to the FNE to monitor the compli -
ance by LATAM of the Seventh Condition and the Settle -
ment Agreement.
On October 31, 2018, the TDLC approved the joint busi -
ness agreements between LATAM and American Airlines, 
and between LATAM and IAG, subject to nine mitigation 
measures. On May 23, 2019 the Supreme Court of Chile 
revoked the TDLC decision, and both agreements were 
rejected. On September 26, 2019, LATAM announced that 
the JBA with American Airlines would be terminated and, 
on December 6, 2019, LATAM announced that the JBA with 
IAG would not be implemented.
On October 15, 2019, LATAM Airlines Group S.A. received 
the resolution issued by the FNE advising of the start of a 
review investigation to analyze the implementation of the 
agreement between LATAM Airlines Group S.A. and Delta 
Air Lines, Inc. (Case number 2585-19). The Company is co -
operating in this investigation, which is ongoing.Industry context
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 133
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS Brasil
The CADE approved the LAN/TAM merger by unanimous 
decision during its hearing on December 14, 2011, subject 
to the following conditions: (1) the new combined group 
(LATAM) should leave one of the two global alliances to 
which it was part (Star Alliance or oneworld); and (2) the new 
combined group (LATAM) should offer to swap two pairs of 
slots in Guarulhos International Airport, to be used by an 
occasional third party interested in offering direct non-stop 
flights between São Paulo and Santiago, Chile. These impo -
sitions are in line with the mitigation measures adopted by 
the TDLC, in Chile.
On February 24, 2021 the CADE approved without remedies 
the joint venture between Delta Air Lines and LATAM Airline 
Group. Previously, in a separate case, the CADE approved 
without remedies the acquisition by Delta of up to 20% of 
LATAM common shares on March 18, 2020.Uruguay
On December 14, 2020 the antitrust authority of Uru -
guay ( Comisión de Promoción y Defensa de la Competencia ) 
approved the joint venture between LATAM and Delta Air 
Lines. The same agreement was filed before the aeronau -
tical authority of Uruguay ( the Dirección Nacional de Aviación 
Civil e Infraestructura Aeronáutica ) on September 21, 2020 
and approved by default on December 20, 2020, as the 
timeframe provided by the Aeronautical Code Law to the 
authority in order to resolve on the matter expired (90 days 
after filing).
United States
On July 8, 2020 LATAM and Delta Air Lines filed their joint 
venture before the DOT applying for approval of and antitrust 
clearance for all the alliance agreements. 
Colombia
On September 4th, 2020 LATAM and Delta filed their joint 
venture agreement before Aerocivil applying for an approval 
of the agreement.Industry context
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 134
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS January 31, 2020
Material Fact report
In accordance with the provisions of Article 9 and 10 of 
the Securities Market Law and in General Rule No. 30, duly 
authorized, I inform as a Material Fact of LATAM Airlines 
Group S.A. (“LATAM Airlines”), Securities Registration No. 
306, the following:
By means of a material fact dated September 26, 2019, 
LATAM Airlines informed that it would terminate its member -
ship in the oneworld alliance. With this date, LATAM Airlines 
informs that it has reached an agreement with oneworld, 
in which the effective departure of LATAM Airlines from the 
oneworld alliance will be on May 1, 2020, keeping its pas -
sengers all the benefits of this alliance until April 30, 2020.
March 12, 2020
Material Fact report
In accordance with the provisions of Article 9 and 10 of the Se -
curities Market Law and in General Rule No. 30, duly authorized, 
I inform as a Material Fact of LATAM Airlines Group S.A. (“LATAM 
Airlines”), Securities Registration No. 306, the following:
LATAM Airlines announces the suspension of its guidance 2020 in light of the uncertainty due to the Covid-19 (corona -
virus) outbreak that is affecting the demand for air traffic. As 
of this date, it is not possible to quantify the exact impact 
on demand or how long it may take to recover, making it im -
possible to estimate results for the full year.
LATAM is taking immediate measures to minimize possible 
effects of the current scenario, including cost reduction and 
capacity adjustments. Along these lines, and in addition to 
the significant efforts being made by LATAM to protect the 
health and safety of its passengers and workers, the LATAM 
group announces a decrease in capacity of approximately 
30% of international operations.
The situation will continue to be monitored day by day and 
LATAM will maintain the flexibility to make the necessary ca -
pacity adjustments or other additional measures depending 
on the development of the situation generated by Covid-19.
March 16, 2020
Material Fact report
In accordance with the provisions of Article 9 and 10 of the Se -
curities Market Law and in General Rule No. 30, duly authorized, 
I inform as a Material Fact of LATAM Airlines Group S.A. (“LATAM 
Airlines”), Securities Registration No. 306, the following:
LATAM Airlines and its affiliates continue to take immediate 
measures to minimize possible effects of the current sce -nario and the uncertainty caused by the Covid-19 (coro -
navirus) outbreak.
Along these lines, and in addition to the significant ef -
forts it is making to protect the health and safety of its 
passengers and workers, the LATAM group announces an 
update of the reduction in capacity of 70% of the total 
operations, corresponding 90% to international opera -
tions and 40% to domestic operations.
The situation will continue to be monitored day by day 
and the LATAM group will maintain the flexibility to make 
the necessary capacity adjustments or other additional 
measures depending on the development of the situation 
generated by Covid-19.
April 2, 2020
Material Fact report
In accordance with the provisions of Article 9 and 10 of 
the Securities Market Law and in General Rule No. 30, 
duly authorized, I inform as a Material Fact of LATAM 
Airlines Group S.A. (“LATAM Airlines”), Securities Regis -
tration No. 306, the following:
LATAM Airlines and its affiliates continue to take im -
mediate measures to minimize possible effects of the 
current scenario, and to protect the health and safety 
of its passengers and workers.Industry context
MATERIAL FACTS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 135
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS As a consequence of the situation caused by the Covid-19 
(coronavirus) outbreak and the governmental restriction for 
air operations, the LATAM group announces an update of 
the reduction in capacity of approximately 95% of the total 
operations.
The situation will continue to be monitored day by day and 
the LATAM group will maintain the flexibility to make the 
necessary capacity adjustments or take other additional 
measures depending on the development of the situation 
generated by Covid-19.
April 2, 2020
Material Fact report
In accordance with the provisions of Article 9 and 10 of the 
Securities Market Law and in General Rule No. 30, duly au -
thorized, I inform as a Material Fact of LATAM Airlines Group 
S.A. (“LATAM Airlines”), Securities Registration No. 306, the 
following:
The Board of LATAM acknowledged the resignation present -
ed by Mr. Juan Jose Cueto Plaza to the position of board 
member of the Company, effective as of April 1, 2020. In 
his replacement, and in use of the faculty contained in the Article 32 of Law N°18,046, on Corporations Law, the Board 
of Directors agreed in an extraordinary meeting held yes -
terday, April 1, 2020, to appoint Mr. Enrique Cueto Plaza as 
board member of LATAM. Consequently, at the next Ordinary 
Shareholders’ Meeting of LATAM, it will be necessary to pro -
ceed to elect and renew its board of directors.
April 14th, 2020
Material fact report - Proposition regarding 
Definitive Dividend Distribution
In accordance with the provisions of Circular No. 660, dated Oc -
tober 22, 1986, of the Commission, , I inform this Commission 
as a Material Fact, that in the Board Meeting held today and in 
relation with the definitive dividend distribution from profits for 
the year 2019, which correspond to the second point of the no -
tice, for the consideration of the Ordinary Shareholders Meet -
ing (the “Shareholder´s Meeting”) of LATAM Airlines Group S.A. 
(“LATAM”) to be held on April 30, 2020, the Board agreed to:
1. Differ, that related to the distribution of the profit and 
specially to the payment of the minimum mandatory div -
idend, corresponding to the 30% of the profit for the year 
2019, to what the Shareholders Meeting may decide, accord -
ing to its sovereign authority.
2. State that the minimum mandatory dividend on the first 
paragraph above, if approved, corresponds to the Definitive 
Dividend No. 51, equivalent to the amount in Chilean pesos of USD 57,129,119.64 which means to distribute a dividend 
of USD 0,094209094475 per share, which, if approved, will 
be payable on Thursday, May 28, 2020, in its equivalent in 
Chilean pesos according to the exchange rate "observed" 
published in the Official Journal on the fifth business day 
prior to the distribution day, that is, on May 22, 2020. In 
case the dividend is approved, the shareholders registered at 
the Shareholders' Register at midnight of May 22, 2020 will 
be entitled to receive the dividends; and,
3. Lastly, the Board set forth that considering the crisis af -
fecting the entire world and especially the airline industry, as 
well as the uncertainty level of the crisis and its consequenc -
es, it is of the opinion that payment of any dividends from 
profits for the year 2019 should be deferred to when circum -
stances make it more advisable.
April 17, 2020
Material Fact report
In accordance with the provisions of Article 9 and 10 of the 
Securities Market Law and in General Rule No. 30, duly au -
thorized, I inform as a Material Fact of LATAM Airlines Group 
S.A. (“LATAM Airlines”), Securities Registration No. 306, the 
following:
The Board of LATAM acknowledged the resignation presented 
by Mr. Carlos Heller Solari to the position of board member 
of the Company, effective as of today. The Board of LATAM Industry context
MATERIAL FACTS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 136
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS did not appoint a replacement at this moment, which could 
occur in a next session, in use of the faculty contained in 
the Article 32 of Law N°18,046 on Corporations Law. Conse -
quently, and as planned, at the next Ordinary Shareholders’ 
Meeting of LATAM, it will be necessary to proceed to elect 
and renew its board of directors.
April 21, 2020
Material Fact report
In accordance with the provisions of Article 9 and 10 of the 
Securities Market Law and General Rule No. 30, duly author -
ized, I inform as a Material Fact of LATAM Airlines Group S.A. 
(“LATAM” or the “Society”), Securities Registration No. 306, 
the following:
LATAM informs that on this date the Board appointed Mr En -
rique Ostale Cambiaso as board member in the position left 
vacant by the resignation of Mr Carlos Heller Solari on April 
16, 2020, position that remained vacant until today.
Notwithstanding the above, and as was previously informed 
on the date of Mr Heller’s resignation, at the next Ordinary 
Shareholders Meeting of LATAM, it will be necessary to pro -
ceed to elect and renew its Board of Directors.April 30th, 2020
Material fact report – Definitive Dividend Distribution
In accordance with the provisions of Circular No. 660 of your 
Commission, dated October 22, 1986, and duly authorized, I 
hereby inform you that at the Ordinary Shareholders Meeting 
of LATAM Airlines Group S.A. (“LATAM”) held today, April 30, 
2020, it was approved the distribution of Definitive Dividend 
No. 51, Minimum Mandatory, up to complete the 30% of net 
income for the year 2019, that is, the equivalent amount in 
Chilean pesos of US$57,129,119.64 which means to distrib -
ute a dividend of US$0,094209094475 per share, payable 
on Thursday, May 28, 2020, in its equivalent in Chilean pesos 
according to the exchange rate "observed", published in the 
Official Journal on the fifth business day prior to the distri -
bution day, that is, on May 22, 2020.
The shareholders of the Company shall be entitled to receive 
the dividend in proportion to their respective shareholding 
in the share capital, according to the number of shares they 
have registered in the Shareholders' Register at midnight of 
the fifth business day prior to the distribution date, that is, at 
midnight on May 22, 2020.
The notice referred to in Section II of the aforementioned Cir -
cular 660 will be published on May 19, 2020, in the newspa -
per "La Tercera" of Santiago.
Form No. 1 is attached, which establishes the same Circular 
No. 660, duly completed and signed by the undersigned.Form no. 1 Dividend distribution
1. Identification of the Company and of the Movement:
1.01 R.U.T. N°: 89.862.200-2
1.02 Original submitted on: 04.30.2020
1.03 Name of the company: LATAM Airlines Group S.A.
1.04 N° in Securities Register: 0306
1.05 Series affected: Sole
1.06 Ticker: L TM
1.07 Movement individualization 51
2. Agreement and sum of the dividend:
2.01 Date of agreement: 04.30.2020
2.02 Agreement version: 1
2.03 Sum of the dividend: 57,129,119.64
2.04 Currency: USD
3. Shares and shareholders with rights:
3.01 Number of shares: 606,407,693
3.02 Deadline: 05.22.2020
4. Dividend character:
4.01 Dividend type: 2
4.02 Yearend close: 31.12.2019
4.03 Form of payment: 1
5. Dividend payment in cash:
5.01 Payment in cash: 0.094209094475
5.02 Currency: USD
5.03 Payment date: 05.28.2020Industry context
MATERIAL FACTS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 137
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS 6. Optional dividend distribution in shares: 
This section is not applicable.
7 . Observations:
7. 01 The exchange rate to be used shall be the "Observed 
Dollar", published in the Official Journal on May 22, 2020.
7 .02 The payment of the dividend will be made through the 
Credit and Investment Bank, in any of its branches through -
out the country, from Monday to Friday, from 9:00 to 14:00 
hours, for a period of 90 days counted from May 28, 2020, 
by promissory note payable to order.  Shareholders who so 
request in writing will receive a deposit into the current or 
bank savings account of the shareholder.  The respective 
bank deposit receipt or notice will be sent to these share -
holders.  Any request or change that a shareholder should 
wish to make with regard to the method of payment as in -
dicated, must be communicated by May 21, 2020.  Follow -
ing said period of 90 days counted from May 28, 2020, the 
funds will be placed into the custody of DCV Records S.A. 
until they are withdrawn by the shareholders, by check or 
promissory note payable to order.  
   Shareholders may be represented by proxy, by granting a 
power of attorney signed before a Notary.  For any inquiries, 
shareholders may call +562 2393-9003; or write to   
atencionaccionistas@dcv.cl .7 .03 The notice referred to in Section II of Circular 660, dat -
ed October 22, 1986 from the Commission for the Financial 
Market, shall be published on May 19, 2020 in the newspa -
per "La Tercera" in Santiago.
7 .04 The reporting company is public.
7 .05 The dividend is paid against the profits for the year 
2019.
7 .06 At the ordinary shareholders' meeting of the reporting 
company, the distribution of a dividend was approved for 
30% of the profits for financial year 2019, which is equivalent 
to an amount of US$57,129,119.64.
7. 07 The tax effects of the dividend payment shall be re -
ported in a timely manner to the shareholders.
The information contained in this form is the faithful ex -
pression of the truth, so I assume the corresponding legal 
responsibility.
April 30th, 2020
Material fact report - Appointment of Chairman 
And Vice President and Board Committee
In accordance with the provisions of articles 9 and 10 of Law 
No. 18,045 on the Securities Market, and on the General Rule 
No. 30, duly authorized, I inform you the following as materi -
al facts of LATAM Airlines Group S.A.:
I. Chairman and Vice President.  At a Board Session held 
today, Mr. Ignacio Cueto Plaza and Mr. Enrique Cue -
to Plaza were appointed as Chairman and Vice President, 
respectively.II. Board Committee.  In the same session, and as disposed 
in the Article 50 bis of Corporations Law N°18,046, it was 
registered that the Board Committee will be composed by 
the Board Members Mr. Eduardo Novoa Castellon (inde -
pendent), Mr. Patrick Horn Garcia (independent) and Mr. 
Nicolas Eblen Hirmas.
April 30th, 2020
Material fact report - New Board
In accordance with the provisions of articles 9 and 10 of Law 
No. 18,045 on the Securities Market, and on the General Rule 
No. 30, duly authorized, I inform you as a material fact that in 
the Ordinary Shareholders' Meeting of LATAM Airlines Group 
S.A. held today, the shareholders of LATAM elected the new 
Board of Directors of the company, which will last for two 
years. The following persons were elected as board members:
i) Enrique Cueto Plaza;
ii) Nicolás Eblen Hirmas;
iii) Ignacio Javier Cueto Plaza;
iv) Henri Philippe Reichstul;
v) Giles Edward Agutter;
vi) Sonia J.S. Villalobos;
vii) Enrique Ostalé Cambiaso;
viii) Eduardo Novoa Castellón (independent); and
ix) Patrick Horn García (independent)Industry context
MATERIAL FACTS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 138
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS May 7, 2020
Material fact report - Subscription of Joint Venture for 
the implementation of the Strategic Alliance with Delta
In accordance with the provisions of Article 9 and 10 of the 
Securities Market Law and General Rule No. 30, duly author -
ized, I inform the as a Material Fact of LATAM Airlines Group 
S.A. (“LATAM” or the “Company"), Securities Registration No. 
306, the following:
In accordance with the announcement of a Material Fact 
made on September 26, 2019, LATAM informs that on this 
date it has signed a contract entitled “ Trans-American Joint 
Venture Agreement ” with Delta Air Lines Inc. (“Delta”), for the 
purpose of implementing a strategic alliance in the routes 
between the United States of America and Canada, and the 
countries of South America with open skies agreements, and 
the connections of such routes (“Strategic Alliance”).
Likewise, as informed on the abovementioned Materi -
al Fact, it is reiterated that is the intention of LATAM and 
Delta to implement the Strategic Alliance simultaneous -
ly in every country of South America, United States and 
Canada in which regulatory authorizations are not required 
and/or where regulatory authorizations have already been 
obtained. In Chile, the regulatory authorizations will be re -
quested within the coming weeks.May 26, 2020
Material fact report
In accordance with the provisions of articles 9 and 10 of Law 
No. 18,045 on the Securities Market Law, and on the General 
Rule No. 30, duly authorized by the Board on May 25, 2020, 
I inform you the following as material facts of LATAM Airlines 
Group S.A. (“LATAM Airlines” or the “Company”):
•  As informed, LATAM Airlines started today a reorganization 
process in the United States of America according to the 
rules established in Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the Code 
of the United States of America, presenting a voluntary 
petition for relief in accordance with the same (the “Chapter 
11 Procedure”). 
•  The Chapter 11 Procedure grants an automatic stay at the 
beginning of the process. Said automatic stay protects 
LATAM Airlines’ cash position while restructures its balance 
sheet and right-size its operations.
•  The cash outflow involved in the dividend payment and 
agreed in the last Shareholders Meeting of LATAM Airlines is 
within the cash flows affected by the automatic stay.
•  In fact, the rules of the Chapter 11 Procedure prohibit the 
Company to distribute dividends to its shareholders during 
the time it is renegotiating its debt to ensure the continuity 
of its operations and future viability.
•  Considering the above, LATAM Airlines will not pay the 
dividend planned for May 28, 2020.•  To this date it is not possible to determine the moment 
or source of the mentioned dividend to the Company’s 
shareholders.
May 26, 2020
MATERIAL FACT report 
In accordance with the provisions of Article 9 and Article 10 
item 2 of Law No. 18045, and pursuant to the provisions 
of General Rule No. 30, duly authorized by the Board in the 
meeting held on May 25, 2020, I hereby inform the Commis -
sion for the Financial Market, as a Material Fact of LATAM 
Airlines Group S.A. (“LATAM Airlines” or the “Company” , terms 
including, when appropriate, its affiliates), the following:
•  Since the beginning of the crisis affecting the airline industry 
as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, which for LATAM 
Airlines has meant the paralyzing of more than 95% of its 
operations, the Board has analyzed the alternatives that may 
exist to strengthen the Company's liquidity and thus mitigate 
the impact on the continuity of its ongoing business.
•  Under this scenario, LATAM Airlines has considered and 
attempted to implement a conventional one-on-one 
renegotiation with its creditors and other stakeholders.  
On parallel, the Company has studied the options for a 
restructure under insolvency proceedings.
•  In the Board's view, the times of the conventional bilateral 
process, the possibility that during it, creditors could decide Industry context
MATERIAL FACTS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 139
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS to exercise actions of forced collection, the impossibility 
of redressing breaches, and the need to implement a 
comprehensive restructuring of LATAM Airlines to which 
all its creditors and other stakeholders must adhere, lead 
to the consideration as a better alternative of a formal 
restructuring.
•  Given the situation in which the Company stands today, 
it is necessary to obtain a temporary suspension of 
execution that will protect it from the demands of its 
creditors and other stakeholders; and, at the same 
time, allow it to continue operating with its main assets, 
suppliers, financial parties, regulators and workers, while it 
structures a binding reorganization to be financially viable 
in a post-pandemic scenario.
•  Because of the foregoing, and having consulted the 
Company's administration and legal and financial advisors, 
the Board’s members have unanimously determined that 
LATAM Airlines should begin a reorganization process in the 
United States of America in accordance with the rules set 
forth in Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the US Code, submitting 
a voluntary application for protection under it (the "Chapter 
11 Proceeding").•  The Chapter 11 Proceeding, which grants an automatic 
suspension of execution for at least 180 days, represents 
the Company's best opportunity to ensure its stability 
and fulfill its obligations to its counterparties.  LATAM 
Airlines intends to use the substantive and procedural tools 
available in under Chapter 11 to maximize the efficiency 
of its ongoing operations and renegotiate certain key 
contractual relationships, adjusting them to current market 
conditions. Under The Chapter 11 Proceeding, LATAM 
Airlines will have the opportunity to restructure its financial 
balance sheet and adjust the size of its operations to the 
new reality.
•  This restructuring under Chapter 11 involves the parent 
company in Chile and the subsidiaries in Chile, Colombia, 
Peru, Ecuador, the United States of America, the 
Cayman Islands, and the Netherlands.  The subsidiaries 
of Argentina, Brazil—including its intermediate parent 
company in Chile, Holdco I S.A.—and Paraguay are not 
included in the Chapter 11 Proceeding.
•  On parallel, LATAM Airlines has negotiated and obtained 
financing commitments from shareholders linked to 
the Cueto and Amaro families, and Qatar Airways for 
US$900 million, the availability of which is subject to the 
negotiation of final agreements and their being approved 
as Debtor In Possession  under the Chapter 11 Proceeding.
•  More details are available on the website  
www.LATAMreorganization.com•  At this time, it is not possible to determine the financial 
effects that the reported subject matter will have for LATAM 
Airlines.
May 27, 2020
Supplementing MATERIAL FACT – Response to 
Resolution No. 22.012 dated May 26, 2020  
In accordance with the provisions of Article 9 and Article 10 
item 2 of Law No. 18.045, and pursuant to the provisions of 
General Rule No. 30, and in compliance with the provisions 
of the Commission for the Financial Market (“CMF”) in Res -
olution No. 22.012, 26 dated May 26, 2020, I hereby com -
plement the MATERIAL FACT with the same date of LATAM 
Airlines Group S.A. (“LATAM Airlines” or the “Company” , terms 
including, when appropriate, its affiliates):
•  The voluntary application for protection (the "Application") 
under Chapter 11 (“Chapter 11”) of Title 11 of the US Code 
was filed by LATAM Airlines on May 26, 2020.
•  The laws of the United States of America do not establish 
the requirement or a procedure for acceptance of 
such Application by the applicable court.  Thereby, the 
mere submission of the Application (i) commences the 
proceedings under Chapter 11 (the "Chapter 11 Proceeding"), 
and (ii) grants the requested protection without the need for 
a resolution from the corresponding court.
•  Unlike reorganization procedures in other jurisdictions, 
Chapter 11 does not lay down specific time limits in which 
a reorganization plan must be confirmed or in which LATAM 
Airlines is to exit the Chapter 11 Proceeding.  Nonetheless, Industry context
MATERIAL FACTS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 140
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS Chapter 11 does set limitations on the timeframe within 
which debtors have the exclusive right to propose and 
request acceptances of a reorganization plan.  Under 
these provisions, LATAM Airlines has the exclusive right 
to propose a reorganization plan within 120 days of 
submission of the Application, a period that may be 
extended for a term of up to 18 months.
•  In Chapter 11 Proceedings, all creditors will be treated fairly, 
regardless of whether they are foreign or local.  In this regard, 
all creditors will be provided with the same information 
and the same opportunity to file petitions, claims, and 
objections; and ultimately, to make an informed judgment on 
any proposed reorganization plan.
•  After the Application is filed, most charges against LATAM 
Airlines prior to filing, as well as enforcement actions, are 
automatically suspended for at least 180 days.
•  The Company will request acknowledgment of the Chapter 
11 Proceeding, as the main foreign proceeding, before the 
Civil Courts of Santiago, in accordance with Article 316 of 
Law No. 20.720.
•  The Subsidiaries in Argentina and Paraguay do not 
participate in the Chapter 11 Proceeding because of their 
specific financial situation.•  The Subsidiaries in Brazil (including the intermediate parent 
company in Chile, HoldCo I S.A.) do not participate in the 
Chapter 11 Proceeding because of their specific financial 
situation and the ongoing negotiations that TAM S.A. has 
with financial institutions in that country.
•  Chapter 11 provides for the possibility that entities subject 
to a Chapter 11 Proceeding may obtain funding under 
the debtor-in-possession  modality in order to continue 
their operations.  Debt incurred under this financing takes 
precedence over most of the obligations that debtors subject 
to Chapter 11 maintained prior to the Application.
•  The terms and conditions of debtor-in-possession  funding 
shall be established in the contracts awarded for this 
purpose, which shall be negotiated during the following 
weeks, as the Chapter 11 Proceeding progresses and which, 
prior to being enforced, shall be approved by the judge 
before whom the Application is processed in accordance 
with Chapter 11 Proceedings. As soon as accurate 
information is available, it will be promptly disclosed.
•  The background to the case is public and can be found and 
monitored in https://cases.primeclerk.com/LATAM/ .
July 9, 2020
Material fact report
In accordance with the provisions of Article 9 and 10 of the 
Law 18,045 and General Rule No. 30, duly authorized by the 
Board in the session held on June 30, 2020, I inform as a 
Material Fact of LATAM Airlines Group S.A. (“LATAM” or the “Company", terms that include its subsidiaries, when applica -
ble), the following:
1. Formalizing of the second tranche of DIP 
financing (Debtor In Possession financing):
Today, LATAM formalized the second tranche called Tranche 
A of the DIP financing proposal (Debtor In Possession financ -
ing) before the Court of the Southern District of New York in 
the framework of the Procedure of Chapter 11. The Tranche A 
amounts to US$1,300 million, which has been committed by 
the investment group Oaktree Capital Management L.P. and its 
subsidiaries.
This proposal must be reviewed and approved by the Court of 
New York in the coming days, as well as the first tranche pre -
viously announced to the market, called Tranche C, which con -
sists of US$900 million committed by the shareholders Qatar 
Airways and the Cueto and Amaro families, and that includes 
an upsize of US$250 million so that other shareholders can 
subscribe in Chile, once it is approved by the Court.
2. Incorporation of LATAM Airlines Brazil 
to Chapter 11 in the United States:
LATAM Airlines Brazil, a Company's subsidiary, announced to -
day that it will join the Company's financial reorganization in 
the United States, including its intermediate parent company 
in Chile, Holdco I S.A., its parent company in Brazil, TAM S.A., 
and its subsidiaries Multiplus Corretora de Seguros Ltda., 
ABSA - Aerolinhas Brasileiras S.A., Prismah Fidelidade Ltda., 
Fidelidade Viagens e Turismo S.A. and TP Franchising Ltda.Industry context
MATERIAL FACTS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 141
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS As informed on May 26, 2020, LATAM began a reorganization 
process in the United States of America in accordance with 
the regulations established in Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the 
Code of the United States of America, presenting a voluntary 
request for protection (the “Chapter 11 Procedure”), which 
did not include the Brazilian subsidiary at that time.
Due to the prolongation of the Coronavirus pandemic, LATAM 
Airlines Brazil announced its integration to the Chapter 11 
Procedure of the Company, to restructure its financial liabil -
ities and efficiently manage its fleet, maintaining its opera -
tional continuity, in addition to facilitating its access to DIP 
financing (Debtor In Possession financing).
August 18, 2020
Material fact report 
In accordance with the provisions of articles 9 and 10 of Law 
No. 18,045 on the Securities Market Law, and on the Gen -
eral Rule No. 30, duly authorized by the Board as of today, I 
inform you the following as material facts of LATAM Airlines 
Group S.A. (“LATAM Airlines” or the “Company”):
•  As informed, LATAM Airlines started a reorganization process 
in the United States of America according to the rules established in Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the Code of the 
United States of America, presenting a voluntary petition 
for relief in accordance with the same (the “Chapter 11 
Procedure”).
•  As part of the reporting obligations that LATAM has to comply 
under the Chapter 11 Procedure, there is a Monthly Operating 
Report (MOR).
•  In virtue of the abovementioned, we made available for 
you and for the market the MOR corresponding for the 
month of June and submitted as of today, included in 
the following link: https://www.latamreorganizacion.com/
en/publications/ .
•  This MOR does not replace in any way the financial 
information that the Company provides regularly according 
the securities law or the applicable regulation and has 
been prepared for the sole purpose to comply with the 
obligations under the Chapter 11 Procedure.
In consequence and without prejudice of the limitations de -
tailed in the MOR, we state that the information contained 
in this report, solely prepared for complying with obliga -
tions under the Chapter 11 Procedure, has not been audit -
ed, has a limited scope and covers a limited period of time 
for it is subject to material changes as the quarter advances 
along with the regulatory processes of the quarterly financial 
statement’s preparation, included the limited revision by the 
external auditors.August 28, 2020
Material fact report
In accordance with the provisions of articles 9 and 10 of Law 
No. 18,045 on the Securities Market Law, and on the General 
Rule No. 30, duly authorized by the Board as of today, I inform 
you the following as material facts of LATAM Airlines Group 
S.A. (“LATAM Airlines” or the “Company”):
•  As informed, LATAM Airlines started a reorganization process 
in the United States of America according to the rules 
established in Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the Code of the 
United States of America, presenting a voluntary petition 
for relief in accordance with the same (the “Chapter 11 
Procedure”).
•  As part of the reporting obligations that LATAM has to 
comply under the Chapter 11 Procedure, there is a Monthly 
Operating Report (MOR).
•  In virtue of the abovementioned, we made available for 
you and for the market the MOR corresponding for the 
month of July and submitted as of today, included in the 
following link  https://www.latamreorganizacion.com/en/
publications/.
•  This MOR does not replace in any way the financial 
information that the Company provides regularly according 
the securities law or the applicable regulation and has 
been prepared for the sole purpose to comply with the 
obligations under the Chapter 11 Procedure.Industry context
MATERIAL FACTS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 142
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS •  In consequence and without prejudice of the limitations 
detailed in the MOR, we state that the information 
contained in this report, solely prepared for complying with 
obligations under the Chapter 11 Procedure, has not been 
audited, has a limited scope and covers a limited period 
of time for it is subject to material changes as the quarter 
advances along with the regulatory processes of the 
quarterly financial statement’s preparation, included the 
limited revision by the external auditors.
September 7, 2020
Material fact report
In accordance with the provisions of articles 9 and 10 of Law 
No. 18,045 on the Securities Market, and as established in 
the Commissions’ General Rule No. 30 of 1989, I inform you 
as a material fact of LATAM Airlines Group S.A. (“LATAM Air -
lines” or the “Company”) the following MATERIAL FACT:
As of today, LATAM Airlines’ Board acknowledged the resig -
nation presented by Mr Giles Agutter for the position of 
board member of the Company, effective as of the end of 
today’s business day. The Board has not yet agreed on the 
designated replacement, which may take place on a next 
session pursuant to Article 32 of the Law No. 18,046, rel -ative to corporations. In accordance, in the next Ordinary 
Shareholder Meeting the company should proceed to renew 
the totality of the Board.
September 10, 2020
Material fact report
In accordance with the provisions of articles 9 and 10 of Law 
No. 18,045 on the Securities Market, and as established in 
the Commissions’ General Rule No. 30, I inform you as a ma -
terial fact of LATAM Airlines Group S.A. (“LATAM Airlines” or 
the “Company”) the following MATERIAL FACT:
•  On this date, the Honorable Judge James L. Garrity ruled 
on the DIP (Debtor In Possesion) financing proposals filed 
in the Southern District Court of New York (the “Court”) 
within the framework of the LATAM reorganization process 
in the United States of America (Chapter 11 procedure).
•  The Court ruled that the price and terms of the DIP 
financing proposed by LATAM, both in Tranche A (Oaktree) 
and in Tranche C (Costa Verde and Qatar), meet the 
standard of being completely fair (entire fairness), and 
that DIP creditors have the right to have their good faith 
recognized, requirements to be able to approve the 
operation under the Bankruptcy Code of the United States 
of America.
•  However, the Court also determined that LATAM's option 
to cause Tranche C creditors to subscribe shares of the Company with the proceeds of the loan payment, included 
in the DIP financing, could not be approved at this time 
without affecting the possibility for the Court to review 
and rule in the future on the reorganization plan to be 
presented by LATAM.
•  Since the request for approval of DIP funding had to be 
approved or rejected as a whole, the Court concluded that, 
for the reason indicated in the previous paragraph, it would 
not approve the request.
•  The Company, together with its legal and financial advisers, 
is analyzing the Court's decision and its scope to define a 
course of action.
September 17, 2020
Material fact report
In accordance with the provisions set forth in Article 9 and 
the second paragraph of Article 10 of the Securities Market 
Law, and in General Rule No. 30, duly authorized, I hereby re -
port the following MATERIAL FACT of LATAM Airlines Group 
S.A. (“LATAM” or the “Company”), registration in the Securi -
ties Registry No. 306:
•  As reported by Material Fact on September 10, 2020, on 
that date, the Honorable Judge James L. Garrity Jr. ruled not 
to approve the DIP Financing (the “DIP Financing”) proposal 
originally filed by LATAM (the “Original DIP Financing 
Proposal”) before the Court of the Southern District of New Industry context
MATERIAL FACTS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 143
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS York (the “Court”) in the LATAM reorganization proceeding in 
the United States of America (the “Chapter 11 Proceeding”). 
•  The foregoing because the Court considered that LATAM’s 
option to cause Tranche C creditors to subscribe shares 
of the Company with the proceeds of the payment of the 
credits contemplated in the Original DIP Financing Proposal 
could not be approved at this time without affecting the 
Court’s ability to review and rule on the reorganization plan 
to be submitted by LATAM in the future.
•  The Company analyzed the Court’s decision with its legal 
and financial advisors and prepared a revised DIP Financing 
proposal (the “Revised DIP Financing Proposal”), which was 
negotiated and agreed upon with various parties of the 
Chapter 11 Proceeding who have indicated an interest in 
such financing. In particular, such parties are (i) those entities 
that were listed as financiers for Tranches A and C of the 
DIP Financing (i.e., Oaktree Capital Management, L.P, or 
certain related entities; and a group of LATAM shareholders 
comprised of the Cueto Group, the Eblen Group and Qatar 
Airways); and (ii) some of the parties that filed alternative 
proposals and/or objections to the Original DIP Financing 
Proposal (i.e., the group of investors led by Knighthead 
Capital Management LLC (from now on Knighthead) and 
Jefferies Finance LLC (from now on Jefferies); and the Official 
Committee of Unsecured Creditors, also known as “UCC”).•  After being reviewed by the LATAM Directors’ Committee 
at meetings held on September 12, 13, and 16, 2020, and 
being approved by the Board of Directors at a meeting 
held on September 16, 2020 - by the unanimous vote of 
the non-interested Directors -, the Revised DIP Financing 
Proposal was submitted to the Court for approval on the 
date hereof.
•  The terms of the Revised DIP Financing Proposal maintain, 
in essence, the structure of the Original DIP Financing 
Proposal. The main changes relate to the following:
 > The financing commitment of up to US$ 2,450 million 
through a delayed draw credit facility consists of two 
tranches in which the following creditors will participate:
 » A Tranche A for a principal amount of up to US$ 1,300 
million, of which (i) US$ 1,125 million will be provided 
by Oaktree Capital Management, L.P. or certain 
related entities thereof; and (ii) US$ 175 million will be 
provided by Knighthead, Jefferies and/or other entities 
that are part of a creditors’ syndicate organized by 
Jefferies.
 » A Tranche C for a principal amount of up to US$ 
1,150 million, of which (i) US$ 750 million will be 
provided by LATAM’s shareholder group composed by 
the Cueto Group, the Eblen Group and Qatar Airways, 
or certain related entities of the latter; (ii) US$ 250 
million will be provided by Knighthead, Jefferies and/
or other entities that are part of a creditors’ syndicate 
organized by Jefferies; and (iii) US$ 150 million to be provided by LATAM’s shareholders or creditors, or new 
investors in LATAM (in each case to the satisfaction 
of the Company). If no commitments are obtained for 
such US$ 150 million, the difference will be provided, 
on a pro rata basis, by the Tranche C creditors 
indicated in numbers (i) and (ii) above.
 > The Revised DIP Financing Proposal does not 
contemplate LATAM’s option to cause Tranche C lenders 
to subscribe Company shares with the proceeds of the 
credit payment. Therefore, unless the terms of the 
DIP Financing are subsequently modified pursuant to 
a reorganization plan that is approved in accordance 
with the rules governing the Chapter 11 Proceeding, 
the amounts owed under Tranche A and Tranche C shall 
be paid in cash. If such modification is made, however, 
the group formed by Knighthead, Jefferies and/or other 
entities that are part of a creditors’ syndicate organized 
by Jefferies may not be forced to receive payments 
other than in cash and the other lenders of the Tranche 
C will have the right to buy their credit at par value.
•  As with the Original DIP Financing Proposal, the Revised 
DIP Financing Proposal:
 > Contemplates a potential Tranche B for up to an 
additional amount of US$ 750 million, subject to 
the authorization of the Court and other conditions 
customary for this type of transactions.
 > Has a scheduled maturity date of 18 months as from 
the closing date, subject to a potential extension for an Industry context
MATERIAL FACTS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 144
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS additional 60 days. The foregoing, unless terminated 
earlier in accordance with its terms, including without 
limitation, in the case of an event of default (the 
“Maturity Date”).
•  As to the economic terms and conditions, those of the 
Revised DIP Financing Proposal are substantially the same 
as those of the Original DIP Financing Proposal, and are 
summarized below:
INTEREST AND FEES FOR TRANCHE A:
 > Interest:  Both the rate and the interest payment dates 
will depend on the choice made by LATAM at the time 
of requesting a disbursement under this tranche, being 
able to choose between (i) paying interest in cash 
at the maturity of each quarterly interest period, or 
(ii) capitalizing such interest to pay it in cash on the 
Maturity Date. In either case, LATAM may also choose 
the applicable interest rate, choosing between the 
eurodollar rate or the alternate base rate (“ABR”).
 » Loans on which interest is payable in cash at the end 
of each interest period will accrue interest at LIBOR 
plus 9.75% in the case of eurodollar loans, and 8.75% 
plus the base rate in the case of ABR loans. » Loans whose interest is capitalized on a quarterly 
basis and is therefore payable on the Maturity Date, 
will accrue interest at LIBOR plus 11%, in the case of 
eurodollar loans, and at 10% plus the base rate in the 
case of ABR loans.
 >Fees and other charges:
 » An Undrawn Commitment Fee equivalent to 0.50% 
per year, which will be calculated daily, and payable 
on the last business day of each quarter until the 
Maturity Date.
 » A cash “yield-enhancement payment” in an amount 
equal to 2.0% of the Tranche A financing commitment, 
payable on the closing date of the DIP Financing. 
 » If the scheduled maturity date is extended, a 
fee equivalent to 0.50% of the credits and credit 
commitments of Tranche A (called “Extension Fee”) 
payable on the date on which the extension is made.
 » Additionally, a Back-end Fee equivalent to 0.75% of the 
financing commitment under Tranche A is contemplated, 
payable on the Maturity Date and calculated as if it had 
accrued daily and capitalized quarterly.INTEREST AND FEES FOR TRANCHE C:
 > Interest:  Interest will be accrued at LIBOR plus 15%, 
which will be payable on the Maturity Date, and will 
be calculated as if it had accrued daily and capitalized 
quarterly.
 >Fees and other charges:
 » An Undrawn Commitment Fee equivalent to 0.5% 
per annum, which will be payable on the Maturity 
Date and calculated as if it had accrued daily and 
capitalized monthly.
 » A Closing Fee payable on the Maturity Date, equal to 
2.0% of the committed amount of financing under 
Tranche C, calculated as if it had accrued on the date 
of the date of the first disbursement of the Tranche C 
loans.
 »  An exit fee (the “Exit Fee”) payable on the Maturity 
Date, equivalent to 3.0% on the amount of principal 
due (including any interest, fees, or other amounts 
that have been or will be capitalized), as well as 
accrued and uncapitalized interest. 
 » An additional fee of 6.0%, payable on the Maturity 
Date, on the sum of (i) the amount of principal due 
(including any interest, fees, or other amounts that 
have been or will be capitalized), as well as accrued 
and non-capitalized interest); and (ii) the amount 
resulting from applying the Exit Fee.Industry context
MATERIAL FACTS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 145
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS  > Use of Proceeds:  Proceeds from both Tranches may be 
used to working capital and to other purposes approved 
by the Court.
 > Liquidity Requirement: The DIP Financing requires that 
LATAM maintains liquidity of at least US$ 400 million at 
a consolidated level.
 >Securities and preferences:
 » In favor of all tranches of the DIP Financing with 
respect to other claims of LATAM and the entities of 
its business group that are subject to the Chapter 11 
Proceeding (the “Subject Subsidiaries”).
 » The credits under Tranche A will be senior to the 
credits under Tranche B (should the latter comes into 
effect). The credits under Tranche B will in turn be 
senior over the credits under Tranche C.
 »  The loans under the DIP Financing will be secured 
by (i) the joint and several liability of the Subject 
Subsidiaries, (ii) security interests to be created over 
certain assets under the laws of the jurisdictions in 
which they are located, and (iii) a general security interest to be created under the laws of the State 
of New York, United States of America, over assets 
of LATAM and the Subject Subsidiaries other than 
certain “Excluded Assets” and the “Carve-Out” . 
Excluded Assets include, among other things, 
aircraft owned or leased by LATAM and the Subject 
Subsidiaries, and the Carve-Out includes, among 
other things, certain funds to cover the expenses pf 
the Chapter 11 Proceeding. 
 »  In addition, LATAM’s obligations to the creditors of 
the DIP Financing will have a super administrative 
preference recognized under Chapter 11 of the 
United States Bankruptcy Code with respect to the 
other liabilities of the Company and the Subject 
Subsidiaries prior to the commencement of the 
Chapter 11 Proceeding.
 > Other terms:  DIP Financing contemplates other terms 
that are customary for financing operations of this 
nature, such as conditions for requesting disbursements, 
representations and warranties, covenants, mandatory 
prepayment events, other acceleration events and 
creditor coordination rules.
•  LATAM is awaiting the Court’s decision in response to the 
Revised DIP Financing Proposal.September 18, 2020
Material fact report
In accordance with the provisions of articles 9 and 10 of Law 
No. 18,045 on the Securities Market, and as established in the 
Commissions’ General Rule No. 30, I inform you as a materi -
al fact of LATAM Airlines Group S.A. (“LATAM Airlines” or the 
“Company”) the following MATERIAL FACT:
•  As reported by Material Fact on September 17, 2020, the 
Company submitted a revised financing proposal (“New 
DIP Financing Proposal”) for the approval of the Southern 
District Court of New York (the “Court”) as part of the 
process reorganization of LATAM in the United States of 
America (the “Chapter Eleven Procedure”).
•  On this date, the Honorable Judge James L. Garrity Jr. 
resolved to approve the New DIP Financing Proposal 
submitted by LATAM.
September 29, 2020
Material fact report
In accordance with the provisions of articles 9 and 10 of Law 
No. 18,045 on the Securities Market Law, and on the General 
Rule No. 30, duly authorized by the Board as of today, I inform 
you the following as material facts of LATAM Airlines Group 
S.A. (“LATAM Airlines” or the “Company”):
•  As informed, LATAM Airlines started a reorganization 
process in the United States of America according to the 
rules established in Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the Code Industry context
MATERIAL FACTS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 146
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS of the United States of America, presenting a voluntary 
petition for relief in accordance with the same (the 
“Chapter 11 Procedure”).
•  LATAM has to prepare and deliver a Monthly Operating 
Report (“MOR”), as part of the reporting obligations it has 
to comply under the Chapter 11 Procedure.
•  Considering the abovementioned, we hereby make 
available for your Commission and for the market the on 
this date and included in the following link  https://www.
latamreorganizacion.com/en/publications/
•  This MOR does not replace in any way the financial 
information that the Company provides regularly according 
the securities law or the applicable regulation and has 
been prepared for the sole purpose to comply with the 
obligations under the Chapter 11 Procedure.
In consequence and without prejudice of the limitations de -
tailed in the MOR, we state that the information contained 
in this report, solely prepared for complying with obligations 
under the Chapter 11 Procedure, has not been audited, has 
a limited scope and covers a limited period of time for it is 
subject to material changes as the quarter advances along 
with the regulatory processes of the quarterly financial state -ment’s preparation, included the limited revision by the exter -
nal auditors, if applicable.
September 29, 2020
Material fact report
In accordance with the provisions of articles 9 and 10 of Law 
No. 18,045 on the Securities Market, and as established in the 
Commissions’ General Rule No. 30, I inform you as a materi -
al fact of LATAM Airlines Group S.A. (“LATAM Airlines” or the 
“Company”) the following MATERIAL FACT:
•  As reported by Material Fact dated September 18, 2020, 
the Honorable Judge James L. Garrity Jr. of the Bankruptcy 
Court of the Southern District of New York (the “Court”), 
resolved to approve the DIP financing proposal presented 
by LATAM on September 17, 2020 (the “DIP Financing”), 
which main terms and conditions were described in the 
Material Fact files on such date. 
•  In accordance with the terms of said approval and for 
the purposes of its implementation, the different parties 
involved in the DIP Financing have signed on this date, 
a credit agreement subject to the laws of the State of 
New York, United States of America denominated Super- 
Priority Debtor-In-Possession Term Loan Agreement (the 
“DIP Credit Agreement”).
•  A copy of the DIP Credit Agreement was notarized 
on this date at the 34th Santiago Notary Office of Mr. Eduardo Diez Morello, and is available at the 
following link:  https://latamairlines.gcs-web.com/
static-files/643941ad-bb49-4072-ad54-f8a1a36bb769.  
October 6, 2020
Material fact report
In accordance with the provisions of Article 9 and 10 of the Se -
curities Market Law and General Rule No. 30, duly authorized, 
I hereby inform as a Material Fact of LATAM Airlin Group S.A. 
(“LATAM” or the “Society”), Securities Registration No. 306, the 
following:
LATAM informs that on this date the Board, in use of the pow -
er contained in article 32 of Law No. 18,046 on Public Limited 
Companies, appointed Mr Alexander Wilcox as board member in 
the position left vacant by the resignation of Mr Giles Agutter on 
September 7, 2020, position that remained vacant until today.
Notwithstanding the above, and as previously informed on the 
date of Mr. Agutter’s resignation, at the next Ordinary Share -
holders' Meeting of LATAM, the whole Board of Directors will 
have to be elected and renewed.
October 8, 2020
Material fact report
In accordance with the provisions of articles 9 and 10 of Law 
No. 18,045 on the Securities Market, and as established in the Industry context
MATERIAL FACTS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 147
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS Commissions’ General Rule No. 30, duly authorized, I inform 
you as a material fact of LATAM Airlines Group S.A. (“LATAM 
Airlines” or the “Company”) the following MATERIAL FACT:
•  As reported by Material Fact, on September 29, 2020 
LATAM, certain entities of its business group which are 
part of the reorganization process of LATAM in the United 
States and the other parties interested in the financing 
proposal approved by the Court of Bankruptcies of 
the Southern District of New York, executed a contract 
denominated the Super-Priority Debtor-In-Possession 
Term Loan Agreement (the “DIP Credit Agreement”) for an 
amount of up to US$ 2.45 billion.
•  On this date, the first disbursement has taken place under 
the DIP Credit Agreement for the total amount of US$ 
1,150 million.
•  As stated in the Material Fact dated September 17, 2020, US 
$ 150 million of Tranche C of the DIP Credit Agreement (the 
“Increase in Tranche C”) was reserved for shareholders or 
creditors of LATAM or new investors of the same other than 
the Cueto group, the Eblen group, Qatar Airways and the 
investor group led by Knighthead and Jefferies. Additionally, 
according to the DIP Credit Agreement, shareholders 
of LATAM as of the date on which LATAM filed for the reorganization process (i.e. May 26, 2020) have priority 
for the purposes of investing in the Increase of Tranche 
C (hereinafter this preference, the "LATAM Shareholders 
Preference").
•  After the occurrence of the first disbursement charged to 
the DIP Credit Agreement, in accordance with the provisions 
of the DIP Credit Agreement, today a period of 30 days 
has begun in order to commit the Increase of Tranche C. In 
order to facilitate the referred shareholders, creditors or new 
investors of LATAM to access said Increase in Tranche C, 
LATAM has hired LarrainVial.
•  In compliance with such engagement, LarrainVial has 
structured a public investment fund called Toesca Deuda 
Privada DIP LATAM Fondo de Inversión (the “Fund”) which 
will be managed by Toesca S.A. Administradora General de 
Fondos and which purpose will be precisely to facilitate the 
aforementioned shareholders, creditors or new investors of 
LATAM, the investment in the Increase of Tranche C.
•  As established by the internal regulations of the Fund, only 
those shareholders, creditors or new investors of LATAM 
who permanently comply with certain requirements, which 
in essence consist of (i) not being “U.S. Person ”(with the 
exception of certain “Qualified Purchasers”) in accordance 
with the relevant regulations of the United States of 
America; (ii) not be domiciled in a territory with a preferential 
tax regime in accordance with the Chilean Income Tax Law; 
and (iii) not having committed or committing the assignment 
of their shares in the Fund to an investor who does not 
comply with the above requirements (hereinafter, those who meet these requirements will be referred to as the “Eligible 
Investors”).
•  The placement of the Fund shares will be made by 
LarrainVial. In order to do this, an Order Book Auction (the 
"Auction") will be held at the Santiago Stock Exchange, 
Stock Exchange, by simultaneously opening two order 
books under the following terms:
 > Book A:  Eligible Investors who have been shareholders 
of LATAM at midnight on May 25, 2020, and who 
maintain said status at midnight of the day prior to the 
opening of the Book, may participate. Each shareholder 
that places an order in Book A will have the right to 
request Fund shares up to a maximum amount of US $ 
3.433266410578562 for each LATAM share owned as of 
midnight of the day prior to the opening of the Book and 
at midnight of May 25, 2020. This amount is equivalent 
to the proportional amount per share that will be invested 
in Tranche C of the DIP Credit Agreement jointly by 
the Cueto group, the Eblen group, and Qatar Airways. 
Additional investmens to be made by any of the referred 
shareholders must be requested through orders in Book B.
 > Book B: The following may participate: (a) Eligible 
Investors who have participated in Book A, for the excess 
of what they may invest in Book A in accordance with the 
terms indicated above; and (b) other Eligible Investors who 
(i) are shareholders of LATAM as of this date and maintain 
such status at midnight of the day prior to the opening 
of the Book, or (ii) are holders of LATAM local bonds at 
midnight of the day prior to the opening of the Book.Industry context
MATERIAL FACTS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 148
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS  > Up to 7,600 million shares of the Fund will be auctioned 
at the Auction, at a value of US $ 0.01.
 > Both Book A and Book B will be for up to 7,600 million 
shares, but the result of the sum of the allocation of the 
two Books will be less than or equal to said amount. For 
the purposes of implementing the LATAM Shareholders' 
Preference, in the final allocation of the Fund shares 
those who participate in Book A will have priority.
 > In order to participate in the Auction, each interested 
party must grant a promise to subscribe to shares for an 
additional number of shares identical to the one actually 
allocated in the Auction. In this way, whoever participates 
in the Auction: (i) will subscribe and pay in cash those 
Fund shares which are allocated; and (ii) will have the 
right and the obligation to subscribe in the future, at the 
request of the Fund manager and in accordance with 
the capital requirements of LATAM under the DIP Credit 
Agreement, a number of additional Fund shares up to the 
amount of Fund shares indicated in literal (i) above.
 > As a general rule, Eligible Investors interested in 
participating in the Increase in Tranche C may do so 
through any stock broker in the country. However, those 
who are institutional investors can only do so through 
LarrainVial. > LATAM states that it is the responsibility of each 
interested party to fully inform themselves about the 
characteristics of DIP Financing and request the advice 
it deems necessary for a proper understanding of its 
characteristics and risks.
October 30, 2020
Material fact report
In accordance with the provisions of articles 9 and 10 of Law 
No. 18,045 on the Securities Market Law, and on the General 
Rule No. 30, duly authorized by the Board as of today, I inform 
you the following as material facts of LATAM Airlines Group 
S.A. (“LATAM Airlines” or the “Company”):
•  As informed, LATAM Airlines started a reorganization process 
in the United States of America according to the rules 
established in Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the Code of the 
United States of America, presenting a voluntary petition 
for relief in accordance with the same (the “Chapter 11 
Procedure”).
•  LATAM has to prepare and deliver a Monthly Operating 
Report (“MOR”), as part of the reporting obligations it has 
to comply under the Chapter 11 Procedure.
•  Considering the abovementioned, we hereby make available 
for your Commission and for the market, corresponding to the 
month of September 2020, dated as of today included in the 
following link https://www.latamreorganizacion.com/en/
publications/ .•  This MOR does not replace in any way the financial 
information that the Company provides regularly according 
the securities law or the applicable regulation and has 
been prepared for the sole purpose to comply with the 
obligations under the Chapter 11 Procedure.
In consequence and without prejudice of the limitations de -
tailed in the MOR, we state that the information contained 
in this report, solely prepared for complying with obligations 
under the Chapter 11 Procedure, has not been audited, has 
a limited scope and covers a limited period of time for it is 
subject to material changes as the quarter advances along 
with the regulatory processes of the quarterly financial state -
ment’s preparation, included the limited revision by the exter -
nal auditors, if applicable.
November 30, 2020 
Material fact report 
In accordance with the provisions of articles 9 and 10 of Law 
No. 18,045 of the Securities Market Law, and in the Gener -
al Rule No. 30, duly authorized by the Board as of today, I 
inform you the following as material facts of LATAM Airlines 
Group S.A. (“LATAM Airlines” or the “Company”):
•  As informed, LATAM Airlines started a reorganization process 
in the United States of America according to the rules 
established in Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the Code of the 
United States of America, presenting a voluntary petition 
for relief in accordance with the same (the “Chapter 11 
Procedure”).Industry context
MATERIAL FACTS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 149
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS •  LATAM has to prepare and deliver a Monthly Operating 
Report (“MOR”), as part of the reporting obligations it 
has to comply with under the Chapter 11 Procedure.
•  Considering the abovementioned, we hereby make 
available for your Commission and for the market the 
MOR corresponding to the month of October 2020, dated 
as of today, included in the following link https://www.
latamreorganizacion.com/en/publications/ .
•  This MOR does not replace in any way the financial 
information that the Company provides regularly 
according the securities law or the applicable regulation 
and has been prepared for the sole purpose to comply 
with the obligations under the Chapter 11 Procedure. 
In consequence and without prejudice of the limitations 
detailed in the MOR, we state that the information 
contained in this report, solely prepared for complying 
with obligations under the Chapter 11 Procedure, has not 
been audited, has a limited scope and covers a limited 
period of time for it is subject to material changes as the 
quarter advances along with the regulatory processes of 
the quarterly financial statement’s preparation, included 
the limited revision by the external auditors, if applicable.Industry context
MATERIAL FACTSDecember 29, 2020 
Material fact report 
In accordance with the provisions of articles 9 and 10 of Law 
No. 18,045 of the Securities Market Law, and in the General 
Rule No. 30, duly authorized by the Board as of today, I inform 
you the following as material facts of LATAM Airlines Group 
S.A. (“LATAM Airlines” or the “Company”):
•  As informed, LATAM Airlines started a reorganization 
process in the United States of America according to the 
rules established in Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the Code 
of the United States of America, presenting a voluntary 
petition for relief in accordance with the same (the 
“Chapter 11 Procedure”).
•  LATAM has to prepare and deliver a Monthly Operating 
Report (“MOR”), as part of the
•  Reporting obligations it has to comply with under the 
Chapter 11 Procedure.
•  Considering the abovementioned, we hereby make 
available for your Commission and for the market the MOR 
corresponding to the month of November 2020, dated 
as of today, included in the following link https://www.
latamreorganizacion.com/en/publications/ .
•  This MOR does not replace in any way the financial 
information that the Company provides regularly according 
the securities law or the applicable regulation and has been prepared for the sole purpose to comply with the 
obligations under the Chapter 11 Procedure.
In consequence and without prejudice of the limitations de -
tailed in the MOR, we state that the information contained 
in this report, solely prepared for complying with obligations 
under the Chapter 11 Procedure, has not been audited, has 
a limited scope and covers a limited period of time for it is 
subject to material changes as the quarter advances along 
with the regulatory processes of the quarterly financial 
statement’s preparation, included the limited revision by the 
external auditors, if applicable.
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 150
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS Risk management
RISK FACTORS
Risk factors
The following important factors, and those important fac -
tors described in other reports we submit to or file with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), could affect 
our actual results and could cause our actual results to dif -
fer materially from those expressed in any forward-look -
ing statements made by us or on our behalf. In particular, 
as we are a non-U.S. company, there are risks associated 
with investing in our ADSs that are not typical for invest -
ments in the shares of U.S. companies. Prior to making an 
investment decision, you should carefully consider all of 
the information contained in this document, including the 
following risk factors.
 
RISKS RELATING TO OUR CHAPTER 11  
PROCEEDINGS
We and a substantial number of our consolidated 
subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for relief 
under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, and 
we are subject to the risks and uncertainties 
associated with our Chapter 11 proceedings.
As a consequence of our Chapter 11 filings, the operations 
and our ability to develop and execute our business plan, 
as well as our continuation as a going concern, will be sub -
ject to the risks and uncertainties associated with bank -ruptcy. These risks include our ability to:
•  confirm and consummate a plan of reorganization with 
respect to our Chapter 11 proceedings; 
•  obtain sufficient financing, including for working capital 
whether from additional Debtor In Possession financing, 
exit financing or otherwise, and emerge from bankruptcy 
and execute our business plan post-emergence, as 
well as comply with the terms and conditions of that 
financing; 
•  maintain our relationships with our creditors, suppliers, 
service providers, customers, directors, officers and 
employees; and 
•  maintain contracts that are critical to our operations on 
reasonably acceptable terms and conditions.
We will also be subject to risks relating to, among others:
•  the high costs of bankruptcy proceedings and related 
fees; 
•  the ability of third parties to seek and obtain court 
approval to (i) terminate contracts and other agreements with us, (ii) shorten the exclusivity period for us to 
propose and confirm a Chapter 11 plan or to appoint 
a Chapter 11 trustee or (iii) convert the Chapter 11 
proceedings to Chapter 7 liquidation proceedings; and 
•  the actions and decisions of our creditors and other third 
parties who have interests in our Chapter 11 proceedings 
that may be inconsistent with our plans. 
Any delays in our Chapter 11 proceedings increase the 
risks of our inability to reorganize our business and emerge 
from bankruptcy and may increase our costs associated 
with the reorganization process.
Because of the many risks and uncertainties associated 
with a voluntary filing for relief under Chapter 11 and the 
related proceedings, we cannot accurately predict or quan -
tify the ultimate impact that events that occur during our 
Chapter 11 proceedings may have on us and there is no 
certainty as to our ability to continue as a going concern.
It is impossible to predict with certainty the amount of 
time that we could spend in our Chapter 11 proceedings or 
to assure parties in interest that a plan of reorganization 
will be confirmed. Our Chapter 11 proceedings may involve 
additional expense and our management will be required to 
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 151
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS spend a significant amount of time and effort focusing on 
the Chapter 11 proceedings.
On September 19, 2020, the Bankruptcy Court approved 
the Debtors’ motion to approve certain Debtor In Posses -
sion financing for US$ 2.45 billion. Our Chapter 11 pro -
ceedings may require us to seek additional Debtor In Pos -
session financing to fund operations, particularly if there 
are significant delays in our Chapter 11 proceedings. If we 
are unable to obtain such financing on favorable terms or 
at all, our chances of successfully reorganizing our busi -
ness may be seriously jeopardized and the likelihood that 
we instead will be required to liquidate our assets may be 
increased, and, as a result, our common shares and debt 
instruments could become further devalued or become 
worthless. Furthermore, we cannot predict the ultimate 
amount of all settlement terms for the liabilities that will 
be subject to our plan of reorganization. Even once a plan 
of reorganization is approved and implemented, we may 
be adversely affected by the possible reluctance of pro -
spective lenders and other counterparties to do business 
with a company that has recently emerged from Chapter 
11 proceedings.We have substantial liquidity needs and may 
not be able to obtain sufficient liquidity to 
confirm a plan of reorganization and exit our 
Chapter 11 proceedings successfully.
Although we have taken multiple measures to reduce our 
expenses and have reduced the scale of our operations sig -
nificantly, mainly as a result of developments relating to 
the spread of Covid-19, our business remains capital inten -
sive. In addition to the cash requirements necessary to fund 
our ongoing operations, we have incurred significant profes -
sional fees and other costs in connection with our reorgan -
ization, and we expect that we will continue to incur signif -
icant professional fees and costs throughout our Chapter 
11 proceedings. There are no assurances that our liquidity 
is sufficient to allow us to satisfy our obligations related to 
our Chapter 11 proceedings, to proceed with the confirma -
tion of a Chapter 11 plan of reorganization and to emerge 
successfully from our Chapter 11 proceedings. Notably, as 
discussed below, to confirm a Chapter 11 plan of reorgani -
zation, we will have to demonstrate feasibility which will in 
part rely on our ability to demonstrate sufficient liquidity 
upon emergence.
We can provide no assurance that we will be able to secure 
additional interim financing or exit financing sufficient to 
meet our liquidity needs. Our liquidity, including our ability to meet our ongoing operational obligations and the cov -
enants, milestones and other conditions in our debt in -
struments, is dependent upon, among other things: (i) our 
ability to comply with the terms and conditions of the cash 
management order entered by the Bankruptcy Court in 
connection with our Chapter 11 proceedings, (ii) our ability 
to maintain adequate cash on hand, (iii) our ability to gen -
erate cash flow from operations, which depends largely on 
factors beyond our control relating to developments de -
riving from the spread of Covid-19, (iv) our ability to con -
firm and consummate a Chapter 11 plan of reorganization 
and (v) the cost, duration and outcome of the Chapter 11 
proceedings.
We may not be able to obtain confirmation of 
a Chapter 11 plan of reorganization or such 
confirmation may be protracted and delayed.
To emerge successfully from Bankruptcy Court protection 
as a viable entity, we must meet certain statutory require -
ments. Specifically, the Bankruptcy Court will have to find 
that the disclosure regarding our proposed plan of reorgan -
ization is adequate and that our procedures for solicitation 
are proper. In addition, we will have to obtain the requisite 
acceptances of our plan and demonstrate the feasibility of 
our plan to the Bankruptcy Court by a preponderance of the 
evidence in order to fulfill other statutory conditions for con -Risk management
RISK FACTORS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 152
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS firmation of our plan. To date, we have not filed a proposed 
plan of reorganization and there can be no assurance as to 
when or whether any or all of the conditions will be satisfied. 
Similarly, just as we cannot assure that a plan of reorgan -
ization will be approved by the Bankruptcy Court, we can -
not guarantee that such plan will be recognized or approved 
by the courts in the other jurisdictions in which we operated 
and/or where we are subject to the parallel and ancillary re -
organization proceedings, or whether or when we will be able 
to emerge from such parallel or ancillary proceedings.
In particular, the confirmation process can be subject to 
numerous unanticipated potential delays. The risks include 
the possibility that:
•  We may receive objections to confirmation of any plan of 
reorganization from various stakeholders in our Chapter 11 
proceedings, including the effectiveness and effect of the 
steps required for the implementation of the Plan, which 
could delay and disrupt confirmation of the Plan and the 
Debtors’ emergence from bankruptcy. Any litigation may 
be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to the company’s 
normal business operations and the plan confirmation 
process. We cannot predict the impact that any objection 
or third party motion during our Chapter 11 proceedings 
may have on the Bankruptcy Court’s decision to confirm a plan of reorganization or our ability to complete a plan of 
reorganization. A resolution of any such litigation that is 
unfavorable to the Debtors could have a material adverse 
effect on the plan confirmation process, emergence 
from bankruptcy or on LATAM’s businesses, results of 
operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flow.
•  Adverse publicity in connection with the Chapter 
11 proceedings or otherwise could negatively affect 
LATAM’s business both during the proceedings, the plan 
confirmation process and post-emergence.
•  Counterparties to assumed and assigned contracts may 
object to the assignment of such contracts pursuant to 
section 365 of the Bankruptcy Code. Section 365(c)(1) 
of the Bankruptcy Code provides that a contract may 
not be assumed or assigned if applicable—other than 
bankruptcy—law so provides. While the Debtors do not 
believe that thse laws, other than bankruptcy law, void 
any of the Debtors’ assignments, a counterparty may 
nevertheless object to an assignment on such grounds.
The success of any reorganization will depend on approv -
al by the Bankruptcy Court and the willingness of our credi -
tors to agree to the exchange or modification of their claims 
as will be outlined in a plan of reorganization, and there can be no guarantee of success with respect to any plan of 
reorganization.
If a plan of reorganization is not confirmed by the Bank -
ruptcy Court or the courts in the other jurisdictions in which 
we are subject to reorganization proceedings, or if we are 
unable to emerge from any of our reorganization proceed -
ings, it is unclear whether or when we would be able to re -
organize our business and what, if any, distributions holders 
of claims against us, including holders of our secured and 
unsecured debt and equity, would ultimately receive with 
respect to their claims. There can be no assurance as to 
whether or when we will successfully reorganize and emerge 
from our Chapter 11 proceedings or, if we do successfully 
reorganize, as to when we would emerge from Chapter 11 
proceedings. If no plan of reorganization can be confirmed, 
or the Bankruptcy Court finds that it would be in the best 
interest of creditors, the Bankruptcy Court may convert or 
dismiss our Chapter 11 proceedings to cases under Chap -
ter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. In the event of conversion, a 
Chapter 7 trustee would be appointed or elected to liqui -
date our assets for distribution in accordance with the pri -
orities established by the Bankruptcy Code.
Any Chapter 11 plan of reorganization that we 
may implement will be based in large part upon Gestión de riesgos
FACTORES DE RIESGO
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 153
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS assumptions and analyses developed by us. If these 
assumptions and analyses prove to be incorrect, 
our plan may be unsuccessful in its execution.
Any plan of reorganization we may implement could af -
fect our capital structure and the ownership, structure and 
operation of the business and will reflect assumptions 
and analyses based on our experience and perception of 
historical trends, current conditions and expected future 
developments, as well as other factors that we consider 
appropriate under the circumstances. Whether actual fu -
ture results and developments will be consistent with our 
expectations and assumptions depends on a number of 
factors, including but not limited to: (i) our ability to change 
substantially our capital structure, (ii) our ability to obtain 
adequate liquidity and access financing sources, (iii) our 
ability to maintain customers’ confidence in our viability 
as a going concern, (iv) our ability to retain key employees 
and (v) the overall strength and stability of general macro -
economic conditions. In light of the many uncertainties and 
risks deriving from developments relating to the spread of 
Covid-19, these factors and their effect on us are highly 
unpredictable.
In addition, any Chapter 11 plan of reorganization will rely 
upon financial projections that are necessarily speculative, 
and it is likely that one or more of the assumptions and estimates that are the basis of these financial forecasts will 
not be accurate. In our case, the forecasts may be even more 
speculative than normal because of the many uncertainties 
we face relating to, among others, macroeconomic condi -
tions in the countries in which the group operates, depressed 
demand for air travel and severe travel restrictions imposed 
by governments as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, and 
the time and manner in which Covid-19 vaccines are distrib -
uted in the countries in which the group operates. According -
ly, we expect that our actual financial condition and results 
of operations will differ, perhaps materially, from what we 
have anticipated. Consequently, there can be no assurance 
that the results or developments contemplated by any plan 
of reorganization we may implement will occur or, even if 
they do occur, that they will have the anticipated effects on 
us or our business or operations. The failure of any such re -
sults or developments to materialize as anticipated could 
materially and adversely affect the successful execution of 
any plan of reorganization.
Upon emergence from a filing of voluntary relief 
under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, 
our historical financial information may not be 
indicative of our future financial performance.
Our capital structure may be significantly altered under a 
plan of reorganization. Further, a plan of reorganization could materially change the amounts and classifications re -
ported in our consolidated historical financial statements, 
which do not give effect to any adjustments to the carry -
ing value of assets or amounts of liabilities that might be 
necessary as a consequence of confirmation of a plan of 
reorganization.
Even if a Chapter 11 plan of reorganization 
is confirmed, we may not be able to 
achieve the effective date.
It is common for plans of reorganization to contain condi -
tions precedent to effectiveness, such as obtaining govern -
ment approvals, satisfying any conditions precedent in the 
exit facility and entry of an order approving the plan. Even 
upon confirmation of a plan, there can be no assurance as 
to when such conditions will be satisfied, if at all.
Even if a Chapter 11 plan of reorganization is 
consummated, we may not be able to achieve our 
stated goals and continue as a going concern.
Even if a Chapter 11 plan of reorganization is consummated, 
we will continue to face a number of risks, including further 
depressed demand for air travel and challenging econom -
ic conditions as a result of developments relating to the 
spread of Covid-19 or otherwise. Accordingly, we can -
not guarantee that a Chapter 11 plan of reorganization will Risk management
RISK FACTORS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 154
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS achieve our stated goals and permit us to effectively imple -
ment our strategy.
Furthermore, even if our debts are reduced or discharged 
through a plan of reorganization, we may need to raise addi -
tional funds through public or private debt or equity financing 
or other various means to fund the group’s business after the 
completion of our Chapter 11 proceedings. Our access to ad -
ditional financing is, and for the foreseeable future will likely 
continue to be, limited, if it is available at all. Therefore, ad -
equate funds may not be available when needed or may not 
be available on favorable terms.
We may be subject to claims that will not be 
discharged in our Chapter 11 proceedings, which 
could have a material adverse effect on our 
financial condition and results of operations.
The Bankruptcy Code provides that the confirmation of a 
Chapter 11 plan of reorganization discharges a debtor from 
substantially all debts arising prior to confirmation. With few 
exceptions, all claims that arose prior to confirmation of the 
plan of reorganization: (i) would be subject to compromise 
and/or treatment under the plan of reorganization and (ii) 
would be discharged in accordance with the Bankruptcy Code 
and the terms of the plan of reorganization. Any claims not 
ultimately discharged through a Chapter 11 plan of reorgan -ization could be asserted against the reorganized entities 
and may have an adverse effect on the business and finan -
cial condition and results of operations of the group on a 
post-reorganization basis.
Our Chapter 11 proceedings may adversely affect 
our ability to maintain important relationships with 
creditors, customers, suppliers, employees, financing 
sources and other personnel and counterparties, 
which could materially and adversely affect us.
Our Chapter 11 proceedings may adversely affect our com -
mercial relationships and our ability to negotiate favorable 
terms with important stakeholders and counterparties, in -
cluding potential sources of financing. Further, public percep -
tion of our continued viability may also adversely affect our 
relationships with customers and their loyalty to us. Strains 
in any of these relationships could materially and adverse -
ly affect us. In particular, critical suppliers, credit and debit 
card processors and acquirers, banks, export credit agen -
cies, providers of letters of credit, surety bonds or similar 
instruments, vendors, lessors and customers may determine 
not to do business with us due to our Chapter 11 proceed -
ings. Also, during the pendency of the Chapter 11 proceed -
ings, the court has stayed the enforcement of any payment 
toward debt obligations and we will need the prior approval 
of the Bankruptcy Court for transactions outside the ordi -nary course of business, which may limit our ability to re -
spond timely to certain events or take advantage of certain 
opportunities.
There is uncertainty regarding our ability 
to continue as a going concern.
Our audited consolidated financial statements have been 
prepared on the basis of accounting principles applicable to 
a going concern. As discussed above, our ability to continue 
as a going concern is contingent upon, among other things, 
our ability to: (i) develop and successfully implement a re -
structuring plan within the timeframe required, (ii) reduce 
debt and other liabilities through the restructuring process, 
(iii) generate sufficient cash flow from operations and (iv) 
obtain financing sources to meet our future obligations. The 
accompanying consolidated financial statements also do not 
include any adjustments that might be necessary should we 
be unable to continue as a going concern.
RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMPANY
A pandemic or the widespread outbreak of 
contagious illnesses has had, and may continue 
to have, a material adverse effect on the 
group’s business and results of operations.
The widespread outbreak of a contagious illness such as the 
Covid-19 pandemic, or fear of such an event, has material -Risk management
RISK FACTORS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 155
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS ly reduced, and may continue to further reduce, demand 
for, and availability of, worldwide air travel and therefore 
is having a material adverse effect on the group’s business 
and results of operations.
In 2003, an outbreak of a coronavirus known as severe 
acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) originating in China be -
came an epidemic and resulted in a slowdown of passen -
ger air traffic due contagion fears. At the time, RPK growth 
was reduced due to oversupply in the market as airlines 
tried to cut capacity.
The Covid-19 pandemic has negatively affected global 
economic conditions, disrupted supply chains and other -
wise negatively impacted aircraft manufacturing operations 
and may reduce the availability of aircraft spare parts. The 
ultimate severity of the Covid-19 pandemic is uncertain 
at this time and therefore we cannot predict the impact 
it may have on the availability of aircraft or aircraft spare 
parts. However, the effect on our results may be material 
and adverse if supply chain disruptions persist and pre -
clude our ability to adequately maintain our fleet.
The potential for a period of significantly reduced demand 
for travel has and will likely continue to result in signifi -
cant lost revenue. As a result of these or other conditions beyond our control, our results of operations could continue 
to be volatile and subject to rapid and unexpected change. 
In addition, if the spread of Covid-19 were to continue un -
abated, our operations could also be negatively affected 
if employees are quarantined as the result of exposure to 
the contagious illness. We cannot fully predict the impact 
that the Covid-19 pandemic will continue to have on glob -
al air travel, corporate travel, and the extent to which it may 
impact the demand for air travel in the regions in which 
the group operates. Continued government-imposed trav -
el restrictions, border closures or operational issues result -
ing from the rapid spread of Covid-19 or other contagious 
illnesses, all of which may be unpredictable, may materially 
reduce demand for air travel in parts of the world in which 
we have significant operations and could have lasting im -
pacts on how people do business and the need or demand 
for business travel. In addition, the pace of the Covid-19 
vaccine rollout globally may materially impact our opera -
tions. These measures and issues have had and could con -
tinue to have a material adverse effect on the group’s busi -
ness and results of operations.
It is possible that in spite of mitigation measures in place, 
Covid-19 or other diseases could be transmitted to 
passengers or employees on our aircraft or at an airport, 
which could lead to reputational and/or financial impacts.
 The health safety and sanitation measures we have im -
plemented as a group may not be sufficient to prevent the 
spread or contagion of Covid-19 or other infectious diseas -
es to our passengers or employees on our aircraft or the 
airports in which we operate, which could result in adverse 
reputational and financial impacts for the group. However, it 
is possible that these measures could prove insufficient and 
Covid-19 or other diseases could be transmitted to passen -
gers or employees in an airport or on an aircraft.
As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, the airline 
industry may experience consumer behavior 
changes, including with regard to corporate 
travel, long-haul travel, and travel demand.
The potential for mid- to long-term changes to consumer be -
havior resulting from the Covid-19 pandemic exists and could 
lead to adverse financial impacts for the Company. Corpo -
rate travel has been hindered, and in many cases, prohibited 
by companies due to risks during the pandemic. At this time, 
it is not possible to predict the potential consequences of 
the increased use of technology as a substitute for travel and 
whether or when corporate travel, long-haul travel and travel 
demand could return to the levels existing prior to the Cov -
id-19 pandemic. Furthermore, travelers may be less prone to 
travel or be more price conscious and may choose low-cost 
alternatives as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.Risk management
RISK FACTORS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 156
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS A failure to successfully implement the group’s strategy 
or a failure to adjust such strategy to the current 
economic situation would harm the group’s business and 
the market value of our ADSs and common shares.
We have developed a strategic plan with the goal of becom -
ing one of the most admired airlines in the world and renew -
ing our commitment to sustained profitability and superior 
returns to shareholders. Our strategy requires us to identify 
value propositions that are attractive to our clients, to find 
efficiencies in our daily operations, and to transform our -
selves into a stronger and more risk-resilient company. A 
tenet of our strategic plan is the continuing adoption of a 
new travel model for domestic and international services to 
address the changing dynamics of customers and the in -
dustry, and to increase our competitiveness. The new trav -
el model is based on a continued reduction in air fares that 
makes air travel accessible to a wider audience, and in par -
ticular to those who wish to fly more frequently. This mod -
el requires continued cost reduction efforts and increasing 
revenues from ancillary activities. In connection with these 
efforts, the Company continues to implement a series of ini -
tiatives to reduce cost per ASK in all its operations as well as 
developing new ancillary revenue initiatives.
Difficulties in implementing our strategy may adversely af -
fect the group’s business, results of operation and the mar -
ket value of our ADSs and common shares.Our financial results are exposed to foreign currency  
 fluctuations.
We prepare and present our consolidated financial state -
ments in U.S. dollars. LATAM and its affiliates operate in 
numerous countries and face the risk of variation in foreign 
currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar or between 
the currencies of these various countries. Changes in the ex -
change rate between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in the 
countries in which the group operates could adversely affect 
the business, financial condition and results of operations. 
If the value of the Brazilian real, Chilean peso or other cur -
rencies in which revenues are denominated declines against 
the U.S. dollar, our results of operations and financial condi -
tion will be affected. The exchange rate of the Chilean peso, 
Brazilian real and other currencies against the U.S. dollar may 
fluctuate significantly in the future.
Changes in Chilean, Brazilian and other governmental eco -
nomic policies affecting foreign exchange rates could also 
adversely affect the business, financial condition, results of 
operations and the return to our shareholders on their com -
mon shares or ADSs.
The group depends on strategic alliances or commercial 
relationships in many different countries, and the busi -
ness may suffer if any of our strategic alliances or com -
mercial relationships terminates.We maintain a number of alliances and other commercial re -
lationships in many of the jurisdictions in which LATAM and 
its affiliates operate. These alliances or commercial relation -
ships allow us to enhance our network and, in some cases, to 
offer our customers services that we could not otherwise offer. 
If any of our strategic alliances or commercial relationships 
deteriorates, or any of these agreements are terminated, the 
group’s business, financial condition and results of operations 
could be adversely affected.
The group’s business and results of operations may 
suffer if we fail to obtain and maintain routes, suitable 
airport access, slots and other operating permits. 
Also, technical and operational problems with the 
airport infrastructure of cities in which we have a 
focus may have a material adverse effect on us.
LATAM’s business depends upon our access to key routes and 
airports. Bilateral aviation agreements between countries, open 
skies laws and local aviation approvals frequently involve polit -
ical and other considerations outside of our control. The group’s 
operations could be constrained by any delay or inability to gain 
access to key routes or airports, including:
•  limitations on our ability to transport more passengers;
• the imposition of flight capacity restrictions;Risk management
RISK FACTORS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 157
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS •  the inability to secure or maintain route rights in local 
markets or under bilateral agreements; or
•  the inability to maintain our existing slots and obtain 
additional slots.
The group operates numerous international routes subject 
to bilateral agreements, as well as domestic flights within 
Chile, Peru, Brazil, Ecuador and Colombia, subject to local 
route and airport access approvals.
There can be no assurance that existing bilateral agree -
ments with the countries in which the group’s companies 
are based and permits from foreign governments will con -
tinue to be in effect. A modification, suspension or revo -
cation of one or more bilateral agreements could have a 
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition 
and results of operations. The suspension of our permis -
sion to operate at certain airports, destinations or slots, or 
the imposition of other sanctions could also have a mate -
rial adverse effect. A change in the administration of cur -
rent laws and regulations or the adoption of new laws and 
regulations in any of the countries in which the group op -
erates that restrict our route, airport or other access may 
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial 
condition and results of operations.Moreover, our operations and growth strategy are dependent 
on the facilities and infrastructure of key airports, including 
Santiago’s International Airport, São Paulo’s Guarulhos Interna -
tional and Congonhas Airports, Brasilia’s International Airport 
and Lima’s Jorge Chavez International Airport. Airports may 
face challenges to meet their capex programs, after suffering 
significant financial deterioration stemming from the Covid-19 
pandemic. Delays or cancelations of capex programs could im -
pact our operations or ability to grow in the future.
Santiago’s Comodoro Arturo Merino Benítez International Air -
port is undergoing an important expansion, which is expect -
ed to be completed by 2021. There is a currently a dispute 
between the airport operator and the government arising 
from the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and deceleration 
of airport operations on revenues, which placed additional 
stress on the operator’s liquidity in light of ongoing invest -
ments required for the expansion project. In order to miti -
gate the impact of the financial loss, the current operator 
is requesting an extension of the concession period, which 
expires in 2035. This dispute implies a risk to future opex 
and capex investments and adverse effects to the airport’s 
operations.
One of the major operational risks we face on a daily basis at 
Lima’s Jorge Chavez International Airport is the limited number of parking positions. Additionally, the indoor infrastructure of 
the airport limits our ability to manage connections and launch 
new flights due to the lack of gates and increasing security and 
immigration controls. Lima’s Jorge Chavez International Airport 
is currently undergoing an expansion, which is expected to be 
completed by 2024. Any delays could negatively impact our 
operations limit our ability to grow and affect our competitive -
ness in the country and in the region.
Brazilian airports, such as the Brasilia and São Paulo (Gua -
rulhos) International Airports, have limited the number of 
takeoff and landing slots per day due to infrastructural lim -
itations. Any condition that would prevent or delay our ac -
cess to airports or routes that are vital to our strategy, or our 
inability to maintain our existing slots and obtain additional 
slots, could materially adversely affect our operations.
One of the largest operational risks that the El Dorado Inter -
national Airport in Bogotá faces is the limited capacity that 
it has during certain time periods due to the adverse weath -
er conditions, the operation of non-regular flights and the 
lack of availability of slots. As a result, measures have been 
implemented to mitigate and regulate the operation, such 
as Ground Stop and Ground Delay Program (GDP Program), 
which generate delays controlled by the control tower. An -
other issue faced at the El Dorado International Airport is Risk management
RISK FACTORS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 158
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS delays by ATC of the control tower in connection with the 
GDP Program. These delays occur particularly in certain time 
periods with high traffic and are associated with non-reg -
ular flight operation, emergency flights, lower performance 
planes, all of which lower the airport’s capacity. However, 
the El Dorado Airport, its concessionaire, Opain S.A., and the 
relevant authorities are working on the ACDM (Airport Col -
laborative Decision Making) project which seeks to optimize 
the airport’s resources, involving all the industry’s players by 
understanding their needs, in order to achieve a more con -
trolled operation with less schedule delays.
A significant portion of our cargo revenue comes from 
relatively few product types and may be impacted by 
events affecting their production, trade or demand.
The group’s cargo demand, especially from Latin American 
exporters, is concentrated in a small number of product cat -
egories, such as exports of fish, sea products and fruits from 
Chile, asparagus from Peru and fresh flowers from Ecua -
dor and Colombia. Events that adversely affect the produc -
tion, trade or demand for these goods may adversely affect 
the volume of goods that are transported and may have a 
significant impact on the results of operations. Future trade 
protection measures by or against the countries for which we 
provide cargo services may have an impact in cargo traffic 
volumes and adversely affect our financial results. Some of the cargo products are sensitive to foreign exchange rates 
and, therefore, traffic volumes could be impacted by the ap -
preciation or depreciation of local currencies.
Our operations are subject to fluctuations 
in the supply and cost of jet fuel, which 
could adversely impact our business.
Higher jet fuel prices could have a materially adverse effect 
on our business, financial condition and results of opera -
tions. Jet fuel costs have historically accounted for a sig -
nificant amount of our operating expenses, and account -
ed for 17 .4% of our operating expenses in 2020. Both the 
cost and availability of fuel are subject to many economic 
and political factors and events that we can neither control 
nor predict, including international political and econom -
ic circumstances such as the political instability in major 
oil-exporting countries. Any future fuel supply shortage (for 
example, as a result of production curtailments by the Or -
ganization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, or “OPEC”), 
a disruption of oil imports, supply disruptions resulting from 
severe weather or natural disasters, labor actions such as 
the 2018 trucking strike in Brazil, the continued unrest in the 
Middle East or other events could result in higher fuel prices 
or reductions in scheduled airline services. We cannot ensure 
that we would be able to offset any increases in the price 
of fuel by increasing our fares. In addition, lower fuel prices 
may result in lower fares through the reduction or elimina -tion of fuel surcharges. We have entered into fuel hedging 
arrangements, but there can be no assurance that such ar -
rangements will be adequate to protect us from an increase 
in fuel prices in the near future or in the long term. Also, 
while these hedging arrangements are designed to limit the 
effect of an increase in fuel prices, our hedging methods 
may also limit our ability to take advantage of any decrease 
in fuel prices, as was the case in 2015 and, to a lesser ex -
tent, in 2016. Hedging arrangements are limited after our 
Chapter 11 filings, as our ISDA contracts went stale. The 
Company is in the process of signing new contracts.
We rely on maintaining a high aircraft utilization rate 
to increase our revenues and absorb our fixed costs, 
which makes us especially vulnerable to delays.
Generally, a key element of our strategy is to maintain a 
high daily aircraft utilization rate, which measures the num -
ber of hours we use our aircraft per day. High daily aircraft 
utilization allows us to maximize the amount of revenue 
we generate from our aircraft and absorb the fixed costs 
associated with our fleet and is achieved, in part, by reduc -
ing turnaround times at airports and developing schedules 
that enable us to increase the average hours flown per day. 
Our rate of aircraft utilization could be adversely affect -
ed by a number of different factors that are beyond our 
control, including air traffic and airport congestion, adverse 
weather conditions, unanticipated maintenance and delays Risk management
RISK FACTORS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 159
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS by third-party service providers relating to matters such as 
fueling, catering and ground handling. If an aircraft falls be -
hind schedule, the resulting delays could cause a disruption 
in our operating performance and have a financial impact 
on our results.
As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic our turnaround times 
between flights have increased to allow for the incorporation 
of numerous changes to the operation, such as increased 
aircraft sanitization and adjusted embarking and disembark -
ing procedures. This increase in turnaround times has a di -
rect impact on our utilization rate. Further, as a result of our 
Chapter 11 proceedings, the majority of LATAM’s fleet is op -
erating on a payment by use (or Power By Hour, “PBH”) plan, 
thus turning the once fixed costs into variable costs that are 
not easily absorbed through higher utilization.
LATAM group flies and depends upon Airbus and 
Boeing aircraft, and our business could suffer if 
we do not receive timely deliveries of aircraft, if 
aircraft from these companies become unavailable 
or if the public negatively perceives our aircraft.
As of December 31, 2020, LATAM group has a total fleet of 
239 Airbus and 61 Boeing aircraft. Risks relating to Airbus 
and Boeing include:•  our failure or inability to obtain Airbus or Boeing aircraft, 
parts or related support services on a timely basis because 
of high demand, aircraft delivery backlog or other factors;
•  the interruption of fleet service as a result of unscheduled or 
unanticipated maintenance requirements for these aircraft;
•  the issuance by the Chilean or other aviation authorities of 
directives restricting or prohibiting the use of our Airbus or 
Boeing aircraft, or requiring time-consuming inspections 
and maintenance;
•  adverse public perception of a manufacturer as a result 
of safety concerns, negative publicity or other problems, 
whether real or perceived, in the event of an accident; or
•  delays between the time we realize the need for new 
aircraft and the time it takes us to arrange for Airbus and 
Boeing or for a third-party provider to deliver this aircraft.
The occurrence of any one or more of these factors could re -
strict our ability to use aircraft to generate profits, respond to 
increased demands, or could otherwise limit our operations 
and adversely affect our business. In the context of our Chap -
ter 11 proceedings, certain of our agreements with suppliers 
may be rejected.If we are unable to incorporate leased aircraft 
into the fleet at acceptable rates and terms in the 
future, our business could be adversely affected.
A large portion of the aircraft fleet is subject to long-term 
leases. The leases typically run from three to 12 years from 
the date of execution. We may face more competition for, 
or a limited supply of, leased aircraft, making it difficult to 
negotiate on competitive terms upon expiration of the cur -
rent leases or to lease additional capacity required for the 
targeted level of operations. If we are forced to pay high -
er lease rates in the future to maintain our capacity and the 
number of aircraft in the fleet, our profitability could be ad -
versely affected.
Furthermore, we will need Bankruptcy Court approval for cer -
tain lease transactions, which may delay or further compli -
cate negotiations ultimately limiting our ability to take ad -
vantage of favorable market conditions.
Our business may be adversely affected if 
we are unable to service our debt or meet 
our future financing requirements.
We have a high degree of debt and payment obligations un -
der our aircraft leases and financial debt arrangements. We 
require significant amounts of financing to meet our aircraft 
capital requirements and may require additional financing to Risk management
RISK FACTORS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 160
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS fund our other business needs. We cannot guarantee that we 
will have access to or be able to arrange for financing in the 
future on favorable terms. Higher financing costs could affect 
our ability to expand or renew our fleet, which in turn could 
adversely affect our business.
In addition, a substantial portion of our property and equip -
ment is subject to liens securing our indebtedness, including 
our Debtor In Possession financing. In the event that we fail 
to make payments on our Debtor In Possession financing or 
other secured indebtedness, creditors’ enforcement of liens 
could limit or end our ability to use the affected property and 
equipment to fulfill our operational needs and thus generate 
revenue.
Moreover, external conditions in the financial and credit mar -
kets may limit the availability of funding at particular times 
or increase its costs, which could adversely affect our prof -
itability, our competitive position and result in lower net 
interest margins, earnings and cash flows, as well as lower 
returns on shareholders’ equity and invested capital. Fac -
tors that may affect the availability of funding or cause an 
increase in our funding costs include global macro-economic 
crises, reductions in our credit rating or in that of our issu -
ances, and other potential market disruptions.We have significant exposure to LIBOR and other floating 
interest rates; increases in interest rates will increase 
our financing cost and may have adverse effects on 
our financial condition and results of operations.
We are exposed to the risk of interest rate variations, 
principally in relation to the U.S. dollar London Interbank 
Offer Rate (“LIBOR”). Many of our financial leases are 
denominated in U.S. dollars and bear interest at a floating 
rate. 55% of our outstanding consolidated debt as of 
December 31, 2020 bears interest at a floating rate 
(and 58% if you consider US$375 million in DIP financing 
provided by Related Parties), after giving effect to interest 
rate hedging agreements. Volatility in LIBOR or other 
reference rates could increase our periodic interest and 
lease payments and have an adverse effect on our total 
financing costs. We may be unable to adequately adjust 
our prices to offset any increased financing costs, which 
would have an adverse effect on our results of operations.
On July 27, 2017, the Financial Conduct Authority (the 
authority that regulates LIBOR) announced that it 
intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the 
calculation of LIBOR after 2021. The Federal Reserve 
Board and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York convened 
the Alternative Reference Rates Committee (ARRC), a 
group of private-market participants, to help ensure a successful transition from U.S. dollar (USD) LIBOR to a 
more robust reference rate, its recommended alternative, 
the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR). Although 
the adoption of SOFR is voluntary, the impending 
discontinuation of LIBOR makes it essential that market 
participants consider moving to alternative rates such as 
SOFR and that they have appropriate fallback language 
in existing contracts referencing LIBOR. The impact of 
such a transition away from LIBOR could be significant 
for us because of our substantial indebtedness.
Increases in insurance costs and/or significant 
reductions in coverage could harm our financial 
condition and results of operations.
Significant events affecting the aviation insurance indus -
try (such as terrorist attacks, airline crashes or accidents 
and health epidemics and the related widespread govern -
ment-imposed travel restrictions) may result in significant 
increases of airlines’ insurance premiums and/or relevant de -
creases of insurance coverage. Further increases in insurance 
costs and/or reductions in available insurance coverage could 
have a material impact on our financial results, change the 
insurance strategy, and increase the risk of uncovered losses.
Problems with air traffic control systems or other 
technical failures could interrupt our operations and 
have a material adverse effect on our business.
The operations, including the ability to deliver customer ser -
vice, are dependent on the effective operation of the equip -
ment, including aircraft, maintenance systems and reservation Risk management
RISK FACTORS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 161
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS systems. The operations are also dependent on the effec -
tive operation of domestic and international air traffic control 
systems and the air traffic control infrastructure by the corre -
sponding authorities in the markets in which the group oper -
ates. Equipment failures, personnel shortages, air traffic con -
trol problems and other factors that could interrupt operations 
could adversely affect the operations and financial results as 
well as our reputation.
We depend on a limited number of suppliers 
for certain aircraft and engine parts.
We depend on a limited number of suppliers for aircraft, air -
craft engines and many aircraft and engine parts. As a result, 
we are vulnerable to problems associated with the supply of 
those aircraft, parts and engines, including design defects, 
mechanical problems, contractual performance by the sup -
pliers, or adverse perception by the public that would re -
sult in unscheduled maintenance requirements, in customer 
avoidance or in actions by the aviation authorities resulting 
in an inability to operate our aircraft. During the year 2020, 
LATAM Airline’s main suppliers were aircraft manufacturers 
Airbus and Boeing.
In addition to Airbus and Boeing, LATAM Airlines has a num -
ber of other suppliers, primarily related to aircraft accesso -
ries, spare parts, and components, including Pratt & Whit -ney, MTU Maintenance, Rolls-Royce, General Electric and 
Pratt & Whitney Canada.
Rolls-Royce continues to face delays with its Trent 1000 en -
gine program, used to power LATAM’s Boeing 787 fleet, with 
increased demand for inspections and maintenance. This has 
affected the availability and the operational flexibility of this 
aircraft for operators worldwide, with the impact for LATAM 
reaching its peak in July 2018. While the situation has im -
proved considerably, there is no guarantee that this will not 
continue and therefore reduce the availability of Boeing 787 
aircraft, thus negatively affecting operations and financial 
results.
In the context of our Chapter 11 proceedings, certain of our 
agreements with suppliers may be rejected.
Our business relies extensively on third-party service 
providers. Failure of these parties to perform as 
expected, or interruptions in our relationships with these 
providers or in their provision of services to us, could 
have an adverse effect on our financial position and 
results of operations.  
We have engaged a significant number of third-party service 
providers to perform a large number of functions that are 
integral to our business, including regional operations, operation of customer service call centers, distribution 
and sale of airline seat inventory, provision of technology 
infrastructure and services, performance of business 
processes, including purchasing and cash management, 
provision of aircraft maintenance and repairs, catering, 
ground services, and provision of various utilities and 
performance of aircraft fueling operations, among other 
vital functions and services. We do not directly control 
these third-party service providers, although we do enter 
into agreements with many of them that define expected 
service performance. Any of these third-party service 
providers, however, may materially fail to meet their 
service performance commitments, may suffer disruptions 
to their systems that could impact their services, or the 
agreements with such providers may be terminated. For 
example, flight reservations booked by customers and/
or travel agencies via third-party GDSs (Global Distribution 
Systems) may be adversely affected by disruptions in our 
business relationships with GDS operators or by issues in 
the GDS’s operations. Such disruptions, including a failure to 
agree upon acceptable contract terms when contracts expire 
or otherwise become subject to renegotiation, may cause 
the carriers’ flight information to be limited or unavailable 
for display, significantly increase fees for both us and GDS 
users, and impair our relationships with customers and 
travel agencies. The failure of any of our third-party service 
providers to adequately perform their service obligations, 
or other interruptions of services, may reduce our revenues 
and increase our expenses or prevent us from operating 
our flights and providing other services to our customers. In 
addition, our business, financial performance and reputation Risk management
RISK FACTORS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 162
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS could be materially harmed if our customers believe that 
our services are unreliable or unsatisfactory. In the context 
of our Chapter 11 proceedings, certain of our agreements 
with suppliers and third-party contractors may be rejected.
Disruptions or security breaches of our information 
technology infrastructure or systems could interfere 
with the operations, compromise passenger or 
employee information, and expos e us to liability, 
possibly causing our business and reputation to suffer.
A serious internal technology error, failure, or cybersecuri -
ty incident impacting systems hosted internally at our data 
centers, externally at third-party locations or cloud providers, 
or large-scale interruption in technology infrastructure we de -
pend on, such as power, telecommunications or the internet, 
may disrupt our technology network with potential impact 
on our operations. Our technology systems and related data 
may also be vulnerable to a variety of sources of interruption, 
including natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunica -
tions failures, computer viruses, cyber-attacks and other se -
curity issues. These systems include our computerized airline 
reservation system, flight operations system, telecommuni -
cations systems, website, customer, self-service applications 
(“apps”), maintenance systems, check-in kiosks, in-flight en -
tertainment systems and data centers.In addition, as a part of our ordinary business operations, 
we collect and store sensitive data, including personal in -
formation of our passengers and employees and informa -
tion of our business partners. The secure operation of the 
networks and systems on which this type of information is 
stored, processed, and maintained is critical to our business 
operations and strategy. Unauthorized parties may attempt 
to gain access to our systems or information through fraud, 
deception, or cybersecurity incident. Hardware or software 
we develop or acquire may contain defects that could unex -
pectedly compromise information security. The compromise 
of our technology systems resulting in the loss, disclosure, 
misappropriation of, or access to, customers’ , employees’ or 
business partners’ information could result in legal claims or 
proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws pro -
tecting the privacy of personal information, disruption to our 
operations and damage to our reputation, any or all of which 
could adversely affect our business.
Increases in our labor costs, which constitute 
a substantial portion of our total operating 
expenses, could directly impact our earnings.
Labor costs constitute a significant percentage of our to -
tal operating expenses (16.0% in 2020) and at times in our 
operating history we have experienced pressure to increase 
wages and benefits for our employees. A significant in -
crease in our labor costs could result in a material reduction 
in our earnings.
Collective action by employees could cause operating 
disruptions and adversely impact our business.  Certain employee groups such as pilots, flight attendants, 
mechanics and our airport personnel have highly special -
ized skills. As a consequence, actions by these groups, such 
as strikes, walk-outs or stoppages, could severely disrupt 
operations and adversely impact our operating and financial 
performance, as well as our image.
A strike, work interruption or stoppage or any prolonged dis -
pute with employees who are represented by any of these 
unions could have an adverse impact on operations. These 
risks are typically exacerbated during periods of renegoti -
ation with the unions, which typically occurs every two to 
four years depending on the jurisdiction and the union. Any 
renegotiated collective bargaining agreement could feature 
significant wage increases and a consequent increase in our 
operating expenses. Any failure to reach an agreement dur -
ing negotiations with unions may require us to enter into 
arbitration proceedings, use financial and management re -
sources, and potentially agree to terms that are less favora -
ble to us than our existing agreements. Employees who are 
not currently members of unions may also form new unions 
that may seek further wage increases or benefits.
Our business may experience adverse consequences 
if we are unable to reach satisfactory collective 
bargaining agreements with unionized employees.
As of December 31, 2020, approximately 64% of the 
group’s employees, including administrative personnel, cab -
in crew, flight attendants, pilots and maintenance tech -
nicians are members of unions and have contracts and Risk management
RISK FACTORS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 163
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS collective bargaining agreements which expire on a regular 
basis. The business, financial condition and results of oper -
ations could be materially adversely affected by a failure to 
reach agreement with any labor union representing such em -
ployees or by an agreement with a labor union that contains 
terms that are not in line with expectations or that prevent 
the group from competing effectively with other airlines.
LATAM group may experience difficulty 
finding, training and retaining employees.
The business is labor intensive. The group employs a large 
number of pilots, flight attendants, maintenance technicians 
and other operating and administrative personnel. The air -
line industry has, from time to time, experienced a shortage 
of qualified personnel, especially pilots and maintenance 
technicians. Such shortage of qualified personnel is further 
exacerbated as a result of our Chapter 11 proceedings, and 
extends to non-flight personnel. In addition, as is common 
with most of our competitors, the group may, from time to 
time, face considerable turnover of our employees. Should 
the turnover of employees, particularly pilots and mainte -
nance technicians, sharply increase, our training costs will be 
significantly higher. LATAM cannot assure you that it will be 
able to recruit, train and retain the managers, pilots, tech -
nicians and other qualified employees that are needed to 
continue the current operations or replace departing em -ployees. An increase in turnover or failure to recruit, train 
and retain qualified employees at a reasonable cost could 
materially adversely affect the business, financial condi -
tion, and results of operations. As a result of the Chapter 11 
proceedings, the group may experience increased levels of 
employee attrition. A loss of key personnel or material ero -
sion of employee morale could impair the ability to execute 
strategy and implement operational initiatives, thereby ad -
versely affecting the group.
RISKS RELATING TO THE AIRLINE INDUSTRY AND 
THE COUNTRIES IN WHICH THE GROUP OPERATES
Our performance is heavily dependent on economic 
conditions in the countries in which the group does 
business. Negative economic conditions in those 
countries could adversely impact the group’s business 
and results of operations and cause the market price 
of our common shares and ADSs to decrease.
Passenger and cargo demand is heavily cyclical and highly 
dependent on global and local economic growth, economic 
expectations and foreign exchange rate variations, among 
other things. In the past, our business has been adversely 
affected by global economic recessionary conditions, weak 
economic growth in Chile, recessions in Brazil and Argen -
tina, and poor economic performance in certain emerging 
market countries in which the group operates. The occur -
rence of similar events in the future could adversely affect 
our business. The group plans to continue to expand op -
erations based in Latin America, which means that perfor -
mance will continue to depend heavily on economic condi -
tions in the region.Any of the following factors could adversely affect the 
business, financial condition and results of operations in 
the countries in which the group operates:
•  changes in economic or other governmental policies;
• changes in regulatory, legal or administrative practices;
•  weak economic performance, including, but not limited 
to, a slowdown in the Brazilian economy, political 
instability, low economic growth, low consumption and/
or investment rates, and increased inflation rates; or
•  other political or economic developments over which we 
have no control.
No assurance can be given that capacity reductions or 
other steps the group may take in response to weakened 
demand will be adequate to offset any future reduction 
in cargo and/or air travel demand in markets in which the 
group operates. Sustained weak demand may adverse -
ly impact our revenues, results of operations or financial 
condition.
An adverse economic environment, whether global, re -
gional or in a particular country, could result in a reduction 
in passenger traffic, as well as a reduction in the cargo 
business, and could also impact the ability to set fares, 
which in turn would materially and negatively affect our 
financial condition and results of operations.Risk management
RISK FACTORS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 164
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS We are exposed to increases in landing fees and 
other airport service charges that could adversely 
affect our margin and competitive position. Also, it 
cannot be assured that in the future we will have 
access to adequate facilities and landing rights 
necessary to achieve our expansion plans.
The group must pay fees to airport operators for the 
use of their facilities. Any substantial increase in airport 
charges, including at Guarulhos International Airport in 
São Paulo, Jorge Chavez International Airport in Lima or 
Comodoro Arturo Merino Benitez International Airport 
in Santiago, could have a material adverse impact on 
our results of operations. Passenger taxes and airport 
charges have increased substantially in recent years. 
We cannot assure you that the airports in which the 
group operates will not increase or maintain high 
passenger taxes and service charges in the future. 
Any such increases could have an adverse effect on 
our financial condition and results of operations.
Certain airports that we serve (or that we plan to serve in 
the future) are subject to capacity constraints and impose 
various restrictions, including takeoff and landing slot 
restrictions during certain periods of the day and limits 
on aircraft noise levels. We cannot be certain that the 
group will be able to obtain a sufficient number of slots, gates and other facilities at airports to expand services in 
line with our growth strategy. It is also possible that airports 
not currently subject to capacity constraints may become 
so in the future. In addition, an airline must use its slots 
on a regular and timely basis or risk having those slots re-
allocated to others. Where slots or other airport resources 
are not available or their availability is restricted in some 
way, the group may have to amend schedules, change 
routes or reduce aircraft utilization. It is also possible that 
aviation authorities in the countries in which the group 
operates, change the rules for the assignment of takeoff and 
landing slots, as it was the case with the São Paulo airport 
(Congonhas) in 2019 where the slots previously operated by 
Avianca Brazil were reassigned. Any of these alternatives 
could have an adverse financial impact on operations. We 
cannot ensure that airports at which there are no such 
restrictions may not implement restrictions in the future or 
that, where such restrictions exist, they may not become 
more onerous. Such restrictions may limit our ability to 
continue to provide or to increase services at such airports.  
The business is highly regulated and changes in the 
regulatory environment in the different countries may 
adversely affect our business and results of operations.
Our business is highly regulated and depends substantial -
ly upon the regulatory environment in the countries in which 
the group operates or intend to operate. For example, price 
controls on fares may limit our ability to effectively ap -
ply customer segmentation profit maximization techniques 
(“passenger revenue management”) and adjust prices to 
reflect cost pressures. High levels of government regula -tion may limit the scope of our operations and our growth 
plans. The possible failure of aviation authorities to main -
tain the required governmental authorizations, or our fail -
ure to comply with applicable regulations, may adversely 
affect our business and results of operations.
Our business, financial condition, results of operations and 
the price of common shares and ADSs may be adversely 
affected by changes in policy or regulations at the federal, 
state or municipal level in the countries in which the group 
operates, involving or affecting factors such as:  
• interest rates;
• currency fluctuations;
• monetary policies;
• inflation;
• liquidity of capital and lending markets;
• tax and social security policies;
• labor regulations;
• energy and water shortages and rationing; and
• other political, social and economic developments in or 
affecting Brazil, Chile, Peru, and the United States, among 
others.
For example, the Brazilian federal government has fre -
quently intervened in the domestic economy and made 
drastic changes in policy and regulations to control infla -
tion and affect other policies and regulations. This required 
the federal government to increase interest rates, change 
taxes and social security policies, implement price controls, 
currency exchange and remittance controls, devaluations, Risk management
RISK FACTORS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 165
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS capital controls and limits on imports.
Uncertainty over whether the Brazilian federal government 
will implement changes in policy or regulation affecting these 
or other factors may contribute to economic uncertainty in 
Brazil and to heightened volatility in the Brazilian securities 
markets and securities issued abroad by Brazilian companies. 
These and other developments in the Brazilian economy and 
governmental policies may adversely affect us and our busi -
ness and results of operations and may adversely affect the 
trading price of our common shares and ADSs.
We are also subject to international bilateral air transport 
agreements that provide for the exchange of air traffic rights 
between the countries where the group operates, and we 
must obtain permission from the applicable foreign govern -
ments to provide service to foreign destinations. There can 
be no assurance that such existing bilateral agreements will 
continue, or that we will be able to obtain more route rights 
under those agreements to accommodate our future expan -
sion plans. Certain bilateral agreements also include provi -
sions that require substantial ownership or effective control. 
Any modification, suspension or revocation of one or more 
bilateral agreements could have a material adverse effect on 
our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
The suspension of our permits to operate to certain air -ports or destinations, the inability for us to obtain favorable 
take-off and landing authorizations at certain high-density 
airports or the imposition of other sanctions could also have 
a negative impact on our business. We cannot be certain 
that a change in ownership or effective control or in a foreign 
government’s administration of current laws and regulations 
or the adoption of new laws and regulations will not have a 
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition 
and results of operations.
Losses and liabilities in the event of an 
accident involving one or more of our aircraft 
could materially affect our business.
We are exposed to potential catastrophic losses in the 
event of an aircraft accident, terrorist incident or any other 
similar event. There can be no assurance that, as a result of 
an aircraft accident or significant incident:
•  we will not need to increase our insurance coverage;
• our insurance premiums will not increase significantly;
• our insurance coverage will fully cover all of our liability; or
• we will not be forced to bear substantial losses.
Substantial claims resulting from an accident or significant 
incident in excess of our related insurance coverage could 
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial 
condition and results of operations. Moreover, any aircraft 
accident, even if fully insured, could cause the negative pub -lic perception that our operations or aircraft are less safe or 
reliable than those operated by other airlines, or by other flight 
operators, which could have a material adverse effect on our 
business, financial condition and results of operations.
Insurance premiums may also increase due to an accident or 
incident affecting one of our alliance partners or other air -
lines, or due to a perception of increased risk in the industry 
related to concerns about war or terrorist attacks, the gener -
al industry, or general industry safety.
High levels of competition in the airline industry, 
such as the presence of low-cost carriers in 
the markets in which the group operates, may 
adversely affect the level of operations.
Our business, financial condition and results of the group’s op -
erations could be adversely affected by high levels of com -
petition within the industry, particularly the entrance of new 
competitors into the markets in which the group operates. 
Airlines compete primarily over fare levels, frequency and de -
pendability of service, brand recognition, passenger amenities 
(such as frequent flyer programs) and the availability and con -
venience of other passenger or cargo services. New and exist -
ing airlines (and companies providing ground cargo or passen -
ger transportation) could enter our markets and compete with 
us on any of these bases, including by offering lower prices, 
more attractive services or increasing their route offerings in 
an effort to gain greater market share.
Low-cost carriers have an important impact in the industry’s 
revenues given their low unit costs. Lower costs allow low-Risk management
RISK FACTORS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 166
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS cost carriers to offer inexpensive fares which, in turn, al -
low price sensitive customers to fly or to shift from large to 
low-cost carriers. In past years we have seen more interest 
in the development of the low-cost model throughout Latin 
America. For example, in the Chilean market, Sky Airline, our 
main competitor, has been migrating to a low-cost mod -
el since 2015, while in July 2017, JetSmart, a new low-cost 
airline, started operations. In the Peruvian domestic mar -
ket, VivaAir Peru, a new low-cost airline, started operations 
in May 2017, and in April 2019, another low-cost airline, Sky 
Airline Peru, started operations. In Colombia, low-cost com -
petitor VivaColombia has been operating in the domestic 
market since May 2012. A number of low-cost carriers have 
announced growth strategies including commitments to ac -
quire significant numbers of aircraft for delivery in the next 
few years. The entry of low-cost carriers into local mar -
kets in which we compete, including those described above, 
could have a material adverse effect on our operations and 
financial performance. Additionally, certain of our competi -
tors have also filed voluntary petitions under Chapter 11 of 
the Bankruptcy Code. The ability of competitors to signif -
icantly adjust their cost structure and become more com -
petitive, resulting from a bankruptcy reorganization process 
or other financial restructuring may also adversely affect our 
ability to compete.International strategic growth plans rely, in part, upon re -
ceipt of regulatory approvals of the countries in which we 
plan to expand our operations with joint business agree -
ments (JBA). The group may not be able to obtain those 
approvals, while other competitors might be approved. Ac -
cordingly, we might not be able to compete for the same 
routes as our competitors, which could diminish our market 
share and adversely impact our financial results. No assur -
ances can be given as to any benefits, if any, that we may 
derive from such agreements.
Some of our competitors may receive external support, 
which could adversely impact our competitive position.
Some of our competitors may receive support from exter -
nal sources, such as their national governments, which may 
be unavailable to us. Support may include, among others, 
subsidies, financial aid or tax waivers. This support could 
place the group at a competitive disadvantage and ad -
versely affect operations and financial performance. For 
example, Aerolineas Argentinas has historically been gov -
ernment subsidized. Additionally, during the Covid-19 pan -
demic, some of our competitors on long-haul routes have 
received, or will receive, government support.
Moreover, as a result of the competitive environment, there 
may be further consolidation in the Latin American and glob -
al airline industry, whether by means of acquisitions, joint 
ventures, partnerships or strategic alliances. We cannot pre -
dict the effects of further consolidation on the industry. Fur -
thermore, consolidation in the airline industry and changes in 
international alliances will continue to affect the competitive landscape in the industry and may result in the development 
of airlines and alliances with increased financial resources, 
more extensive global networks and reduced cost structures.
Some of the countries where the group operates may 
not comply with international agreements previously 
established, which could increase the risk perception 
of doing business in that specific market and as a 
consequence impact the business and financial results.
Rulings by a bankruptcy court in Brazil and by higher judicial 
authorities related to the bankruptcy proceedings of Avian -
ca Brazil may appear to be inconsistent with the Cape Town 
Convention (CTC) treaty that Brazil has signed, thus raising 
concerns about the rights of creditors in respect of financ -
ings secured by aircraft. Accordingly, if creditors perceive 
that an increase business risk is created by these rulings for 
leasing or other financing transactions involving aircraft in 
Brazil, there is a possibility that rating agencies may issue 
lower credit ratings in respect of financings that are secured 
by aircraft in Brazil. As a result, business and financial results 
may be adversely affected if our financing activities in Brazil 
are impacted by such events.
The group’s operations are subject to local, national 
and international environmental regulations; costs 
of compliance with applicable regulations, or the 
consequences of noncompliance, could adversely 
affect our results, our business or our reputation.
The group’s operations are affected by environmental reg -
ulations at local, national and international levels. These 
regulations cover, among other things, emissions to the at -Risk management
RISK FACTORS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 167
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS mosphere, disposal of solid waste and aqueous effluents, 
aircraft noise and other activities incident to the business. 
Future operations and financial results may vary as a re -
sult of such regulations. Compliance with these regulations 
and new or existing regulations that may be applicable to 
us in the future could increase our cost base and adversely 
affect operations and financial results. In addition, failure 
to comply with these regulations could adversely affect 
us in a variety of ways, including adverse effects on the 
group’s reputation.
In 2016, the International Civil Aviation Organization 
(“ICAO”) adopted a resolution creating the Carbon Off -
setting and Reduction Scheme for International Avia -
tion (CORSIA), providing a framework for a global mar -
ket-based measure to stabilize carbon dioxide (“CO2”) 
emissions in international civil aviation (i.e., civil aviation 
flights that depart in one country and arrive in a different 
country). CORSIA will be implemented in phases, starting 
with the participation of ICAO member states on a volun -
tary basis during a pilot phase (from 2021 through 2023), 
followed by a first phase (from 2024 through 2026) and a 
second phase (from 2027). Currently, CORSIA focuses on 
defining standards for monitoring, reporting and verifica -
tion of emissions from air operators, as well as on de -
fining steps to offset CO2 emissions after 2020. To the extent most of the countries in which the group operates 
continue to be ICAO member states, in the future we may 
be affected by regulations adopted pursuant to the COR -
SIA framework.
The proliferation of national regulations and taxes on CO2 
emissions in the countries that we have domestic opera -
tions, including environmental regulations that the airline 
industry is facing in Colombia, may also affect the cost of 
operations and the margins.
The business may be adversely affected by a 
downturn in the airline industry caused by exogenous 
events that affect travel behavior or increase costs, 
such as outbreak of disease, weather conditions 
and natural disasters, war or terrorist attacks.
Demand for air transportation may be adversely impacted 
by exogenous events, such as adverse weather conditions 
and natural disasters, epidemics (such as Ebola and Zika) 
and pandemics (such as the Covid-19 pandemic), terror -
ist attacks, war or political and social instability. Situations 
such as these in one or more of the markets in which the 
group operates could have a material impact on the busi -
ness, financial condition and results of operations. Fur -
thermore, the Covid-19 pandemic and other adverse public 
health developments could have a prolonged effect on air 
transportation demand and any prolonged or widespread 
effects could significantly impact operations.
After the terrorist attacks in the United States on Septem -
ber 11, 2001, the Company made the decision to reduce its flights to the United States. In connection with the re -
duction in service, the Company reduced its workforce re -
sulting in additional expenses due to severance payments 
to terminated employees during 2001. Any future terrorist 
attacks or threat of attacks, whether or not involving com -
mercial aircraft, any increase in hostilities relating to re -
prisals against terrorist organizations or otherwise and any 
related economic impact could result in decreased passen -
ger traffic and materially and negatively affect the busi -
ness, financial condition and results of operations.
After the 2001 terrorist attacks, airlines have experienced 
increased costs resulting from additional security meas -
ures that may be made even more rigorous in the future. In 
addition to measures imposed by the U.S. Department of 
Homeland Security and the TSA, IATA and certain foreign 
governments have also begun to institute additional secu -
rity measures at foreign airports we serve.
Revenues for airlines depend on the number of passengers 
carried, the fare paid by each passenger and service fac -
tors, such as the timeliness of flight departures and arriv -
als. During periods of fog, ice, low temperatures, storms or 
other adverse weather conditions, some or all of our flights 
may be cancelled or significantly delayed, reducing profit -
ability. In addition, fuel prices and supplies, which consti -
tute a significant cost for us, may increase as a result of 
any future terrorist attacks, a general increase in hostili -
ties or a reduction in output of fuel, voluntary or otherwise, 
by oil-producing countries. Such increases may result in Risk management
RISK FACTORS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 168
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS both higher airline ticket prices and decreased demand for 
air travel generally, which could have an adverse effect on 
revenues and results of operations.
An accumulation of ticket refunds could have 
an adverse effect on our financial results.
The Covid-19 pandemic and the corresponding widespread 
government-imposed travel restrictions that are outside of 
LATAM’s control have resulted in an unprecedented num -
ber of requests for ticket refunds from customers due to 
changed or cancelled flights. Although at the time this 
issue has been managed, we cannot assure you that the 
Covid-19 pandemic or other outbreak of contagious illness 
will not result in additional changed or cancelled flights, 
and we cannot predict the total amount of refunds that 
customers might request as a result thereof. If the group is 
required to pay out a substantial amount of ticket refunds 
in cash, this could have an adverse effect on our financial 
results or liquidity position. Furthermore, the group has 
agreements with financial institutions that process cus -
tomer credit card transactions for the sale of air travel and 
other services. Under certain of the Company’s credit card 
processing agreements, the financial institutions in cer -
tain circumstances have the right to require that the group 
maintain a reserve equal to a portion of advance ticket 
sales that have been processed by that financial institution, but for which it has not yet provided the air transportation. 
Such financial institutions may require cash or other collateral 
reserves to be established or withholding of payments relat -
ed to receivables to be collected, including if the group does 
not maintain certain minimum levels of unrestricted cash, 
cash equivalents and short-term investments. Refunds low -
er our liquidity and put us at risk of triggering liquidity cove -
nants in these processing agreements and, in doing so, could 
force us to post cash collateral with the credit card compa -
nies for advance ticket sales.
LATAM group is subject to risks relating to 
litigation and administrative proceedings that 
could adversely affect the business and financial 
performance in the event of an unfavorable ruling.
The nature of the business exposes us to litigation relating 
to labor, insurance and safety matters, regulatory, tax and 
administrative proceedings, governmental investigations, tort 
claims and contract disputes. Litigation is inherently costly 
and unpredictable, making it difficult to accurately estimate 
the outcome among other matters. Currently, as in the past, 
we are subject to proceedings or investigations of actual or 
potential litigation. Although we establish accounting provi -
sions as we deem necessary, the amounts that we reserve 
could vary significantly from any amounts we actually have 
to pay due to the inherent uncertainties in the estimation 
process. We cannot assure you that these or other legal pro -
ceedings will not materially affect the business.
The group is subject to anti-corruption, anti-
bribery, anti-money laundering and antitrust laws and regulations in Chile, the United States 
and in the various countries in which it operates. 
Violations of any such laws or regulations could 
have a material adverse impact on our reputation 
and results of operations and financial condition.
We are subject to anti-corruption, anti-bribery, anti-mon -
ey laundering, antitrust and other international laws and 
regulations and are required to comply with the applica -
ble laws and regulations of all jurisdictions where the group 
operates. In addition, we are subject to economic sanctions 
regulations that restrict dealings with certain sanctioned 
countries, individuals and entities. There can be no assur -
ance that internal policies and procedures will be sufficient 
to prevent or detect all inappropriate practices, fraud or 
violations of law by affiliates, employees, directors, of -
ficers, partners, agents and service providers or that any 
such persons will not take actions in violation of our policies 
and procedures. Any violations by us of laws or regulations 
could have a material adverse effect on the business, repu -
tation, results of operations and financial condition.
Latin American governments have exercised and continue 
to exercise significant influence over their economies.
Governments in Latin America frequently intervene in the 
economies of their respective countries and occasionally 
make significant changes in policy and regulations. Govern -
mental actions have often involved, among other measures, 
nationalizations and expropriations, price controls, curren -
cy devaluations, mandatory increases on wages and em -
ployee benefits, capital controls and limits on imports. Our 
business, financial condition and results of operations may Risk management
RISK FACTORS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 169
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS be adversely affected by changes in government policies 
or regulations, including such factors as exchange rates 
and exchange control policies, inflation control policies, 
price control policies, consumer protection policies, import 
duties and restrictions, liquidity of domestic capital and 
lending markets, electricity rationing, tax policies, includ -
ing tax increases and retroactive tax claims, and other po -
litical, diplomatic, social and economic developments in or 
affecting the countries where the group operates.
For example, the Brazilian government’s actions to control 
inflation and implement other policies have involved wage 
and price controls, depreciation of the real, controls over 
remittance of funds abroad, intervention by the Central 
Bank to affect base interest rates and other measures. 
In the future, the level of intervention by Latin American 
governments may continue or increase. We cannot assure 
you that these or other measures will not have a material 
adverse effect on the economy of each respective country 
and, consequently, will not adversely affect our business, 
financial condition and results of operations.
Political instability and social unrest in Latin 
America may adversely affect the business.
LATAM group operates primarily within Latin America and 
is thus subject to a full range of risks associated with our operations in this region. These risks may include unstable 
political or social conditions, lack of well-established or reli -
able legal systems, exchange controls and other limits on our 
ability to repatriate earnings and changeable legal and regu -
latory requirements.
Although political and social conditions in one country may 
differ significantly from another country, events in any of our 
key markets could adversely affect the business, financial 
conditions or results of operations.
For example, in Brazil, in the last couple of years, as a re -
sult of the ongoing Lava Jato investigation (“Operation Car 
Wash”), a number of senior politicians have resigned or been 
arrested and other senior elected officials and public officials 
are being investigated for allegations of corruption. One of 
the most significant events that elapsed from this operation 
was the impeachment of the former President Rousseff by 
the Brazilian Senate on August, 2016, for violations of fiscal 
responsibility laws and the governing of its Vice-President, 
Michel Temer, during the last two years of the presidential 
mandate, which, due to the development of the investiga -
tions conducted by the Federal Police Department and the 
General Federal Prosecutor’s Office, indicted President Temer 
on corruption charges. Along with the political and economic 
uncertainty period the country was facing, in July 2017, for -
mer President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva was convicted of cor -
ruption and money laundering by a lower federal court in the 
State of Paraná in connection with Operation Car Wash.
In Peru, on September 30, 2019, President Martin Vizcarra took the executive action to dissolve the Peruvian Congress 
and called for a new election of congressional members. In 
response to the dissolution of the Congress, former mem -
bers of the legislative body voted to suspend President 
Vizcarra for twelve months and appointed Vice President 
Mercedes Araoz as interim president to temporarily re -
place Mr. Vizcarra. Vice President Araoz resigned from her 
position as interim president the following day. On January 
14, 2020, the Peruvian Constitutional Court declared the 
executive action taken by President Vizcarra to be consti -
tutionally and legally valid. On January 26, 2020, congres -
sional elections were held to elect the new Congress. The 
new Congress is fragmented and will likely be replaced in 
the next general election in April 2021.
On October 20, 2020, a group of 27 congressmen intro -
duced a motion to hold new impeachment proceedings 
against President Vizcarra as a result of allegations that 
President Vizcarra received illicit payments from con -
struction companies when he was the governor of Moque -
gua (between 2011 and 2014). On November 2, 2020, the 
Peruvian Congress voted to hold new impeachment pro -
ceedings. On November 9, 2020, with the affirmative vote 
of the required qualified members of Congress, the im -
peachment of President Vizcarra was approved. Because, 
at the time, Peru did not have designated vice presidents, 
the then-president of the Congress, Manuel Arturo Merino 
de Lama, assumed the role of acting President. Since that 
day, Peru has been undergoing political and social unrest, 
followed by multiple protests within the country. On No -
vember 15, 2020, Manuel Arturo Merino de Lama resigned Risk management
RISK FACTORS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 170
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS from his role of acting President. On November 16, 2020, 
the Congress elected congressman Francisco Rafael Sagasti 
Hochhausler as president of Congress, and he assumed the 
role of acting President on November 17, 2020 until July 28, 
2021.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Peru is currently scheduled to 
hold a general election in April 2021 to elect a new President 
and Congress, which increases the uncertainty surrounding 
the Peruvian economy. In the past, governments have im -
posed controls on prices, exchange rates, local and foreign 
investment and international trade, restricted the ability of 
companies to dismiss employees, expropriated private sec -
tor assets and prohibited the remittance of profits to foreign 
investors. We cannot be certain whether the new Peruvian 
government (appointed by Congress) or the Peruvian gov -
ernment to be elected in 2021 will continue to pursue busi -
ness-friendly and open-market economic policies that stim -
ulate economic growth and stability.
In October 2019, Chile saw significant protests associat -
ed with economic conditions resulting in the declaration of 
a state of emergency in several major cities. The protests in 
Chile began over criticisms about social inequality, lack of 
quality education, weak pensions, increasing prices and low 
minimum wage. If social unrest in Chile were to continue or intensify, it could lead to operational delays or adversely im -
pact our ability to operate in Chile.
Furthermore, current initiatives to address the concerns of 
the protesters are under discussion in the Chilean Congress. 
These initiatives include labor reforms, tax reforms and pen -
sion reforms, among others. It is not possible to predict the 
effect of these changes as they are still under discussion, but 
they could potentially result in higher payments of wages 
and salaries and an increase in taxes. On October 25, 2020 
(postponed from April 26, 2020 due to the impact of the 
Covid-19 pandemic), Chile widely approved a referendum to 
redraft the constitution via constitutional convention. The 
election for selecting the 155-member constitutional con -
vention is set to be held on April 11, 2021. Thereafter, the 
convention will have 9 months, with the possibility of a one-
time, three-month extension, to present a new constitution, 
which will be approved or rejected in a referendum during 
2022. In addition, Chile will hold presidential and congres -
sional elections in November 2021.
Although conditions throughout Latin America vary from 
country to country, our customers’ reactions to develop -
ments in Latin America generally may result in a reduction in 
passenger traffic, which could materially and negatively af -
fect our financial condition and results of operations.
Latin American countries have experienced 
periods of adverse macroeconomic conditions.
The business is dependent upon economic conditions prev -
alent in Latin America. Latin American countries have his -torically experienced economic instability, including uneven 
periods of economic growth as well as significant downturns. 
High interest, inflation (in some cases substantial and pro -
longed), and unemployment rates generally characterize each 
economy. Because commodities such as agricultural prod -
ucts, minerals, and metals represent a significant percentage 
of exports of many Latin American countries, the economies 
of those countries are particularly sensitive to fluctuations 
in commodity prices. Investments in the region may also be 
subject to currency risks, such as restrictions on the flow of 
money in and out of the country, extreme volatility relative 
to the U.S. dollar, and devaluation.
For example, in the past, Peru has experienced periods of 
severe economic recession, currency devaluation, high infla -
tion, and political instability, which have led to adverse eco -
nomic consequences. We cannot assure you that Peru will 
not experience similar adverse developments in the future 
even though for some years now, several democratic proce -
dures have been completed without any violence. We can -
not assure you that the current or any future administration 
will maintain business-friendly and open-market economic 
policies or policies that stimulate economic growth and so -
cial stability. In Brazil, the Brazil Real GDP decreased 3.5% in 
2015, decreased 3.3% in 2016, increased 1.3% in 2017 and 
2018 and increased 1.1% in 2019, according to the Brazilian 
Institute for Geography and Statistics (Instituto Brasileiro de 
Geografia e Estadística, or “IGBE”). In addition, the credit rat -
ing of the Brazilian federal government was downgraded in 
2015 and 2016 by all major credit rating agencies and is no 
longer investment grade. We can offer no assurances as to Risk management
RISK FACTORS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 171
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS the policies that may be implemented by the recently elect -
ed Argentine administration, or that political developments 
in Argentina will not adversely affect the Argentine economy.
Accordingly, any changes in the economies of the Latin 
American countries in which LATAM and its affiliates operate 
or the governments’ economic policies may have a nega -
tive effect on the business, financial condition and results of 
operations.
RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON SHARES AND 
ADSS  
Because our post-bankruptcy capital structure is yet to 
be determined, and any changes to our capital structure 
may have a material adverse effect on holders of the 
ADSs or our shares, trading in the ADSs or our shares 
during the pendency of our Chapter 11 proceedings 
is highly speculative and poses substantial risks.
Our post-bankruptcy capital structure will be set pursuant 
to a reorganization plan that requires approval by the bank -
ruptcy court. The reorganization of our capital structure may 
include exchanges of new equity securities for existing equi -
ty securities or of debt securities for equity securities, which 
would dilute any value of our existing equity securities, or 
may provide for all existing equity interests in us to be ex -
tinguished. In this case, amounts invested by holders of the ADSs or our shares will not be recoverable and these secu -
rities will have no value.
As a result of our Chapter 11 proceedings, on June 10, 
2020, the NYSE notified the SEC of its intention to remove 
the ADSs from listing and registration on the NYSE, effec -
tive at the opening of business on June 22, 2020. As of the 
date of this annual report, the ADSs are traded in the over-
the-counter market, which is a less liquid market. There 
can be no assurance that the ADSs will continue to trade in 
the over-the-counter market or that any public market for 
the ADSs will exist in the future, whether broker-dealers 
will continue to provide public quotes of the ADSs, whether 
the trading volume of the ADSs will be sufficient to pro -
vide for an efficient trading market, whether quotes for the 
ADSs may be blocked in the future or that we will be able 
to relist the ADSs on a securities exchange.
Trading prices of the ADSs or our shares bear no relation -
ship to the actual recovery, if any, by their holders in the 
context of our Chapter 11 proceedings. Additionally, trad -
ing prices of ADSs or our shares may experience signifi -
cant fluctuation and volatility. Due to these and other risks 
described in this annual report, trading in the ADSs or our 
shares during the pendency of our Chapter 11 proceed -
ings poses substantial risks and we urge extreme caution 
with respect to existing and future investments in these 
securities.
Our major shareholders may have interests that differ 
from those of our other shareholders.  
 One of the major shareholder groups, the Cueto Group (the 
“Cueto Group”), beneficially owned 16.39% of our common 
shares as of February 28, 2021. The Amaro Group (the 
“Amaro Group”), as of February 28, 2021, held 6.40 % of 
LATAM shares through TEP Chile and TEP Aeronáutica S.A. 
Previously, the Amaro Group held a 21.88% stake in Costa 
Verde Aeronáutica S.A., the main legal vehicle through which 
the Cueto Group holds its LATAM shares, which included 
4.42% of the 6.40% LATAM shares held by the Amaro Group. 
On December 28, 2020, however, TEP Aeronáutica S.A. was 
created through a demerger of Costa Verde Aeronáutica 
S.A., and the Amaro Group’s interest in Costa Verde 
Aeronáutica S.A. transferred to the new company, wholly-
owned by the Amaro Group, and which as of February 28, 
2021, held 4.42% of the LATAM Shares. Pursuant to an 
existing shareholders’ agreement, the Cueto Group and the 
Amaro Group have agreed to use their good faith efforts 
to reach an agreement and act jointly on all actions to be 
taken by our board of directors or shareholders’ meeting, 
and if unable to reach to such agreement, to follow the 
proposals made by our board of directors. Decisions by the 
Company that require supermajority votes under Chilean 
law are subject to voting arrangements by the Cueto Group 
and the Amaro Group. In addition, other shareholders 
including, Delta Air Lines, Inc, which, as of February 28, 2021, 
held 20.00% of our common shares, and Qatar Airways 
Investments (UK) Ltd., which as of February 28, 2021, held 
9.999999918% of our common shares, could have interests 
that may differ from those of our other shareholders.
Under the terms of the deposit agreement governing the 
ADSs, if holders of ADSs do not provide JP Morgan Chase Risk management
RISK FACTORS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 172
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS Bank, N.A., in its capacity as depositary for the ADSs, 
with timely instructions on the voting of the common 
shares underlying their ADRs, the depositary will be 
deemed to have been instructed to give a person desig -
nated by the board of directors the discretionary right to 
vote those common shares. The person designated by 
the board of directors to exercise this discretionary voting 
right may have interests that are aligned with our ma -
jority shareholders, which may differ from those of our 
other shareholders. Historically, our board of directors 
has designated its chairman to exercise this right; for ex -
ample, the members of the board of directors elected by 
the shareholders in 2020 designated Mr. Ignacio Cueto, to 
serve in this role.
Trading of our ADSs and common shares in the 
securities markets is limited and could experience 
further illiquidity and price volatility.
Our common shares are listed on the two Chilean stock 
exchanges. Chilean securities markets are substantially 
smaller, less liquid and more volatile than major securities 
markets in the United States. In addition, Chilean securities 
markets may be materially affected by developments in 
other emerging markets, particularly other countries in Latin 
America. Accordingly, although you are entitled to withdraw 
the common shares underlying the ADSs from the depos -
itary at any time, your ability to sell the common shares underlying ADSs in the amount and at the price and time of 
your choice may be substantially limited. This limited trading 
market may also increase the price volatility of the ADSs or 
the common shares underlying the ADSs.
Holders of ADRs may be adversely affected by currency 
devaluations and foreign exchange fluctuations.
If the Chilean peso exchange rate falls relative to the U.S. 
dollar, the value of the ADSs and any distributions made 
thereon from the depositary could be adversely affected. 
Cash distributions made in respect of the ADSs are re -
ceived by the depositary (represented by the custodian 
bank in Chile) in pesos, converted by the custodian bank 
into U.S. dollars at the then-prevailing exchange rate and 
distributed by the depositary to the holders of the ADRs 
evidencing those ADSs. In addition, the depositary will in -
cur foreign currency conversion costs (to be borne by the 
holders of the ADRs) in connection with the foreign curren -
cy conversion and subsequent distribution of dividends or 
other payments with respect to the ADSs.
Future changes in Chilean foreign investment controls 
and withholding taxes could negatively affect non-
Chilean residents that invest in our shares.
Equity investments in Chile by non-Chilean residents have 
been subject in the past to various exchange control reg -
ulations that govern investment repatriation and earnings 
thereon. Although not currently in effect, regulations of the 
Central Bank of Chile have in the past imposed such ex -
change controls. Nevertheless, foreign investors still have to provide the Central Bank with information related to equi -
ty investments and must conduct such operations within the 
formal exchange market. Furthermore, any changes in with -
holding taxes could negatively affect non-Chilean residents 
that invest in our shares.
We cannot assure you that additional Chilean restrictions 
applicable to the holders of ADRs, the disposition of the 
common shares underlying ADSs or the repatriation of the 
proceeds from an acquisition, a disposition or a dividend 
payment, will not be imposed or required in the future, nor 
could we make an assessment as to the duration or impact, 
were any such restrictions to be imposed or required.
Our ADS holders may not be able to exercise 
preemptive rights in certain circumstances.
To the extent that a holder of our ADSs is unable to exercise 
its preemptive rights because a registration statement has 
not been filed, the depositary will attempt to sell the hold -
er’s preemptive rights and distribute the net proceeds of the 
sale, net of the depositary’s fees and expenses, to the holder, 
provided that a secondary market for those rights exists and a 
premium can be recognized over the cost of the sale. A sec -
ondary market for the sale of preemptive rights can be ex -
pected to develop if the subscription price of the shares of our 
common stock upon exercise of the rights is below the prevail -
ing market price of the shares of our common stock. Howev -
er, we cannot assure you that a secondary market in preemp -
tive rights will develop in connection with any future issuance 
of shares of our common stock or that if a market develops, a Risk management
RISK FACTORS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 173
APPENDICES: OUR BUSINESS premium can be recognized on their sale. Amounts received in 
exchange for the sale or assignment of preemptive rights relat -
ing to shares of our common stock will be taxable in Chile and 
in the United States. The inability of holders of ADSs to exer -
cise preemptive rights in respect of common shares underlying 
their ADSs could result in a change in their percentage owner -
ship of common shares following a preemptive rights offering. 
If a secondary market for the sale of preemptive rights does 
not develop and such rights cannot be sold, they will expire and 
a holder of our ADSs will not realize any value from the grant 
of the preemptive rights. In either case, the equity interest of a 
holder of our ADSs in us will be diluted proportionately.
We are not required to disclose as much information to 
investors as a U.S. issuer is required to disclose and, as 
a result, you may receive less information about us than 
you would receive from a comparable U.S. company.
The corporate disclosure requirements that apply to us may 
not be equivalent to the disclosure requirements that ap -
ply to a U.S. company and, as a result, you may receive less 
information about us than you would receive from a compa -
rable U.S. company. We are subject to the reporting require -
ments of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended 
(the “Exchange Act”). The disclosure requirements applicable 
to foreign issuers under the Exchange Act are more limited 
than the disclosure requirements applicable to U.S. issu -ers. Publicly available information about issuers of securities 
listed on Chilean stock exchanges also provides less detail 
in certain respects than the information regularly published 
by listed companies in the United States or in certain other 
countries. Furthermore, there is a lower level of regulation of 
the Chilean securities market and of the activities of inves -
tors in such markets as compared with the level of regulation 
of the securities markets in the United States and in certain 
other developed countries.Risk management
RISK FACTORS
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 174
APPENDICES: SUSTAINABILITY
305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4 and 305-5
GREENHOUSE GASES  ( t co2e) 2017 2018 2019 2020∆ 2020/2019
Direct emissions111,051,171 11,513,608 12,149,725 5,614,368 -53.79%
Indirect emissions224,498 16,759 18,423 16,355 -11.23%
Other indirect emissions311,382 4,750 218,174 24,827 -88.62%
Total 11,087,051 11,535,117 12,386,323 5,655,551 -54.34%
Emissions intensity in total operations  
(kg CO2e/100 RTK)79.89 80.34 83.6981.62-2.48%
Emissions intensity in air operations  
(kg CO2e/100 RTK)79.45 80.06 82.0280.69-1.62%
Emissions intensity (net value) in the total 
operation (kg CO2e/100 RTK)4 77 .50 77 .86 82.79 79.68 -3.76%
1 Direct emissions (Scope 1): fuel consumption in air operations, fixed sources, and LATAM fleet vehicles, as well as 
fugitive refrigerant gas emissions.
2 Indirect emissions (Scope 2): electric energy purchases. The emissions calculation considers the different energy grids of 
the countries where LATAM operates. 
3 Other indirect emissions (Scope 3): ground transportation related to operations (employees, suppliers, and waste) and air 
travel (through other airlines) of employees for work reasons.
4 Considers offset emissions.
SOURCE EMISSION FACTOR
Jet Fuel 3.15 kg CO2/kg fuel
Gasoline 69,300 kg CO2/TJ
Diesel 74,100 kg CO2/TJ
Natural gas 56,100 kg CO2/TJ
Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) 63,100 kg CO2/TJSCOPE OF THE INFORMATION (%) 2017 2018 2019 2020
Jet fuel—air operation 100 100 100 100
Fuel—stationary sources
Diesel 96 96 96 96
Natural gas 100 100 100 100
Gasoline 100 100 100 100
LPG 100 100 100 100
Fuel—mobile sources
Diesel 96 96 96 96
Gasoline 96 96 96 96
LGP 100 100 100 100
Refrigerating gases (various) 100 100 100 100
Electricity 100 100 100 100
Transportation using other airlines (jet fuel) 100 100 100 100
305-6 and 305-7
SIGNIFICANT ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS 2017 2018 2019 2020∆ 2020/2019 (%)
Nitrogen oxides (NOx) – (t) 37,876 39,485 41,697 19,207 -53.9%
Intensity in passenger operation (g/RPK) 0.253 0.256 0.261 0.273 4.6%
Intensity in cargo operations (g/RTK) 1.822 1.718 1.880 1.792 -4.7%
Sulfur oxides (SOx) – (t) 1,678 1,749 1,847 851 -53.9%
Intensity in passenger operation (g/RPK) 0.011 0.011 0.012 0.012 4.6%
Intensity in cargo operations (g/RTK) 0.081 0.076 0.083 0.079 -4.7%
Gases that affect the ozone layer123.84 46.7 21.2 7. 8 -63.3%
1 Incluye (2018): Halon-1301; HCFC-141b; HCFC-22; HFC-125; HFC-134a; HFC143a; HFC-32; R410A; and R507A.Climate change
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 175
APPENDICES: SUSTAINABILITY
302-1
INTERNAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION (TJ) 2017 2018 2019 2020
Non-renewable energy
Jet Fuel 151,502.79 157,940.61 166,786.63 76,826.10
Gasoline 7 .81 6.90 9.64 3.97
Diesel 271.81 178.101118.63 97.74
LGP 7. 10 7 .60 8.35 6.28
Natural gas 0.59 0.41 0.42 0.29
Electricidad2136,755.77 106,125.12 55,194.86 35,961.65
Total non-renewable energy 288,545.87 264,258.74 222,118.53 112,896.04
Renewable energy
Ethanol 0.09 0.25 20.65 0.20
Electricity2103,612.59 76,181.32 161,444.19 105,624.34
Total renewable energy 3 103,612.68 76,181.57 161,464.84 105,624.55
Total 152,030.56 158,316.18 383,583.38 218,520.59
1 There was a decrease in Chile’s consumption due to the outsourcing of ground handling services.
2 The energy consumed comes from different sources. The share percentage of each source varies year after year, based on 
the electric grid of each country.
3 Differs from the information in past reports because the consideration of renewable and non-renewable electric energy was 
corrected.Environmental management and eco-efficiency
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 176
APPENDICES: EMPLOYEES
LATAM GROUP AND AFFILIATES –TURNOVER RATE (%)  401-1
By gender 2018 2019 2020
Men 9.9 12.3 60.6
Women 20.8 15.9 49.6
By age group
Up to 30 years 30.6 23.0 82.2
From 31 to 40 years old 11.9 11.9 50.6
From 41 to 50 years old 3.7 7. 9 35.5
From 51 to 60 years old 1.7 7. 8 42.2
Over 61 years old 1.9 15.2 104.2
By country
Argentina18.3 7. 8 181.3
Brazil 15.9 11.2 45.3
Chile 13.4 18.8 56.3
Colombia 10.9 18.0 40.8
Ecuador 13.1 17. 8 65.1
United States 16.0 22.2 37. 2
Peru 8.0 13.0 57 .0
Others 34.4 17. 8 77 .33
Total 14.2 13.7 53.7
1 The affiliate’s domestic operations were suspended in June 2020. LATAM GROUP AND AFFILIATES – NEW HIRES  401-1 TOTAL RATE
Argentina1 40 4.8%
Brazil 927 6.0%
Chile 530 7.4 %
Colombia 81 7 .3%
Ecuador 32 6.7%
United States 9 4.3%
Peru 254 9.4%
Others 23 4.9%
Total 1,896 6.7%Joint challenge
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 177
APPENDICES: EMPLOYEES
LATAM GROUP AND ITS AFFILIATES— JOB SECURITY  403-9 TOTAL RATE
Injuries from work-related incidents with major consequences11
Peru 3 0.09
Other affiliates 0 0.00
Total 3 0.01
Recordable injuries from work-related incidents2
Argentina 4 0.24
Brazil 60.5 0.32
Chile 45.0 0.54
Colombia 3.0 0.25
Ecuador 8.0 1.39
Peru 20.0 0.61
Others (including the United States) 5.0 0.29
Total 145.5 0.41
Deaths resulting from injuries from work-related incidents30 0.00
Notes:
Rates are calculated following the formula Total incidents/Average staff X 100.
1 Does not include deaths. Note: Peru was the only affiliate with work-related incidents with major consequences in 2020.
2 Including deaths.
3 Including travel incidents in the cases where LATAM provides the transportation service. Note: there were no deaths.Team safety
Appendices
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices       Financial information      Credits 178
FINANCIAL
    INFORMA TION
179 
 
  
 
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
 
DECEMBER 31, 2020  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 CONTENTS  
  
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position  
Consolidated Statement of Income by Function  
Consolidated Statement of Comprehens ive Income  
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity  
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows  - Direct Method  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  
 
 
 
 
 
 
CLP - CHILEAN PESO  
ARS  - ARGENTINE PESO  
US$ - UNITED STATES DOLLAR  
THUS$  - THOUSANDS OF  UNITED  STATES DOLLARS  
MUS$  - MILLIONS OF U NITED STATES DOLLARS  
COP  - COLOMBIAN PESO  
BRL/R$  - BRAZILIAN R EAL  
THR$   -      THOUSANDS OF BRAZILI AN REAL  
180
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020Financial 
statements  
 
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS  
(Free translation from the original in Spanish)  
 
Santiago, March 9 , 202 1 
 To the Board of Directors and Shareholders  
Latam Airlines Group S.A.  
   We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Latam Airlines Group S.A. 
and subsidiaries, which comprise the consolidated statements of financial position as at December  31, 
2020 and 201 9 and the consolidated statements of income by function, consolidated comprehensive 
income, consolidated changes in equity and consolidated cash flows – direct method for the years 
then ended, and the corresponding notes to the consolidated financial statements.  
 
Management’s responsibility for the consolidated financial statements  
 Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). This 
responsibility includes the design, implementation and maintenanc e of a relevant internal control for 
the preparation and fair presentation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.  
 
Auditor’s responsibility  
 Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our 
audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with Chilean Generally Accepted Auditing Standards. 
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance abou t 
whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement.  
 An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. The procedures selected depen d on the auditor’s judgment, 
including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the en tity’s preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial 
statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. As a consequence we do not express that kind of opinion. An audit also includes evaluating the 
appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by 
management, as well as evaluating the overall present ation of the consolidated financial statements.  
 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our audit opinion.  
 
Santiago, M arch 9,  2021 
Latam Airlines G roup S .A. 
2 
Opinion  
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects the 
financial position of Latam Airlines Group S.A. and subsidiaries as at December 31, 2020 and 2019, 
and the results of operations and cash flows for the years ended December 31, 202 0 and 2019 in 
accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). 
Emphasis of matter – Going C oncern 
The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming that the Company 
will continue as a going concern. As indicated in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company’s operations have been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and has stated that 
substantial doubt exists about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. Management's 
assessment of the conditions, including its plans regarding this matter are also described in 
Note 2. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that could result from the resolution of this uncertainty. Our opinion is not modified as a result of this 
matter. 
Emphasis of matter – Voluntary r eorganization a nd r estructuring o f their d ebt 
As indicated in Notes 2 to the consolidated financial statements, on May 26, 2020 and July 
9,2020, the Parent Company and some of its subsidiaries availed themselves of voluntary 
protection under the financial reorganization process under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy 
Code. Our opinion is not modified as a result of this matter. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Digitally signed by Renzo Piero Corona Spedaliere  RUT: 6.373.028 -9. The digital certificate is embedded in the 
electronic version of this document.  
 
181 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020Contents of the Notes to the consolidated financial statements of LATAM Airlines Group S.A. and 
Subsidiaries.  
Notes              Page  
 
1 - General information  ................................ ................................ .......................................................  1 
2 - Summary of significant accounting policies  ................................ ................................ .................. 5 
2.1. Basis of Preparation  ................................................................ ................................ ................. 5 
2.2. Basis of Consolidation  ................................................................ ................................ ........... 14 
2.3. Foreign currency transactions  ................................ ................................................................  15 
2.4. Property, plant and equ ipment  ................................ ...............................................................  17 
2.5. Intangible assets other than goodwill  ................................ .....................................................  18 
2.6. Goodwill  ................................ ................................ ................................................................ . 18 
2.7. Borrowing costs  ................................ ................................ .....................................................  18 
2.8. Losses for impairment of non -financial assets  ................................ ................................ ....... 19 
2.9. Financial assets  ................................ ................................ .......................................................  19 
2.10. Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities  ......................................................  20 
2.11. Inventori es ................................ ................................ ............................................................  21 
2.12. Trade and other accounts receivable ................................ ....................................................  21 
2.13. Cash and cash equivalents  ................................................................ ................................ .... 22 
2.14. Capital  ................................ ................................................................ ................................ .. 22 
2.15. Trade and other accounts payables ................................ .......................................................  22 
2.16. Interest -bearing loans  ................................................................ ................................ ........... 22 
2.17. Current and deferred taxes  ................................................................ ................................ ... 22 
2.18. Employee benefits  ................................................................ ................................ ................ 23 
2.19. Provision s ................................ ................................ .............................................................  23 
2.20. Revenue recognition  ................................................................ ................................ ............. 24 
2.21. Leases  ................................ ................................................................ ................................ ... 25 
2.22. Non- current assets (or disposal groups) classified as held for sale  ................................ ...... 27 
2.23. Maintenance  ................................ ................................ .........................................................  27 
2.24. Environmental costs  ................................................................ ................................ ............. 27 
3 - Financial risk management  ................................................................ ................................ .......... 27 
3.1. Financial risk factors  ................................................................ ................................ .............. 27 
3.2. Capital ri sk management  ................................................................ ................................ ........ 43 
3.3. Estimates of fair value  ................................................................ ................................ ............ 43 
4 - Accounting estimates and judgments  ................................ ...........................................................  45 
5 - Segmental information  ................................................................ ................................ ................. 49 
6 - Cash and cash equivalents  ................................................................ ................................ ........... 50 
7 - Financial instruments  ................................ ................................ ...................................................  51 
8 - Trade and other accounts receivable current, and non -current accounts receivable  ....................  52 
9 - Accounts receivable from/payable to related entities  ................................ ................................ .. 55 
10 - Inventories  ................................ ................................ ................................................................ . 56 
11 - Other financial assets ................................................................ ................................ ................. 57 
12 - Other non -financial assets  ................................................................ ................................ .......... 58 
13 - Non -current assets and disposal group classified as held for sale  ................................ ............. 59 
14 - Investments in su bsidiaries  ................................................................ ................................ ........ 60 
15 - Intangible assets other than goodwill  ................................ .........................................................  63 
16 - Goodwill and intangible assets of indefinite useful life  .............................................................  64 
17 - Property, plant and equipment  ................................................................ ................................ ... 67 18 - Current and deferred tax  ................................................................ ................................ ............ 72 
19 - Other financial liabilities  ................................................................ ................................ ............ 76 
20 - Trade and other acc ounts payables  ................................ ............................................................  86 
21 - Other provisions  ................................ ................................ .........................................................  88 
22 - Other non financial liabilities  ................................................................ ................................ ..... 90 
23 - Employee benefits  ................................ ................................ ......................................................  91 
24 - Accounts payable, non -current  ................................................................ ................................ .. 93 
25 - Equity  ................................ ................................................................ ................................ ......... 93 
26 - Revenue  ................................ ................................................................ ................................ ..... 97 
27 - Costs and expenses by nature  ................................................................ ................................ .... 98 
28 - Other income, by function  ................................................................ ................................ ....... 100 
29 - Foreign currency and exchange rate differences  ................................ ................................ ...... 100 
30 - Earnings/(loss) per share ................................................................ ................................ .......... 108 
31 - Contingencies  ................................ ................................ ...........................................................  109 
32 - Commitments  ................................ ................................ ...........................................................  123 
33 - Transactions with related parties  ................................ .............................................................  126 
34 - Share based payments  ................................................................ ................................ .............. 127 
35 - Statement of cash flows  ................................................................ ................................ ........... 128 
36 - The environment  ................................ ................................ ......................................................  130 
37 - Events subsequent to the date of the financial statements  .......................................................  131 
 
182 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020LATAM AIRLINES GROUP S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES  
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION  
 
  
 
12,506,552
15,650,09018 Deferred tax assets
Total non-current assetsGoodwill
Property, plant and equipment16
17
564,816
Total assets126,782
4,986
1,046,559
-
10,730,269Current tax assets 18
Other non-financial assets
Accounts receivableOther financial assets
Intangible assets other than goodwill 15 - 1612
7 - 87 - 113,143,538
33,140Non-current assetsTotal current assetsTotal current assets other than non-current assets     
(ordisposal groups) classified asheld forsaleorasheld
for distribution to owners 2,867,416
276,12242,320As of
December 31,
7 - 9Other financial assets
Other non-financial assets
Trade and other accounts receivable
Accounts receivable from related entities
107 - 8Cash and cash equivalents
7 - 11
126 - 7December 31,
2020As of
1,695,841
50,250
155,892ASSETS
13Inventories599,381
158
323,574
Non-current assets (or disposal groups) classified as 
held for sale or as held for distribution to ownersThUS$Note
Cash and cash equivalents2019
ThUS$
1,072,579
499,504
313,449
1,244,348
19,645
21,087,806354,232
29,321
3,533,078
485,150
4,018,228
46,907
204,928
4,725
1,448,241
2,209,576
12,919,618
235,583
17,069,578
 
 
The accompanying Notes 1 to 37 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.   
 LATAM AIRLINES GROUP S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES  
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION  
 
 
(or disposal groups) classified as held for sale
Total liabilities
Treasury Shares
Total equity
Total liabilities and equity10,600,587
(6,672)
(2,442,385)
15,650,0903,129,177(178)
21,087,806Total current liabilities other than 
Non-controlling interest 14 (1,605)Parent's ownership interest851,383Deferred tax liabilities 18
10,997,687
3,146,265 Share capital 25 3,146,265EQUITY384,280
74,116
18,092,475 17,958,629Total non-current liabilitiesOther non-financial liabilities 22 702,0087 - 192,322,125
812
23,774
656
Other provisions 21 588,3597,491,8882,088,79121
Current tax liabilities 18
7,491,888
Accounts payable to related entities 7 - 9 396,4237,803,801ThUS$ ThUS$
Other provisions
Employee benefitsCurrent liabilities
Total current liabilities
232,835,221
-6,960,942
651,6008,530,418
619,110Other non-financial liabilities 22
Non-current liabilities
Accounts payable 7 - 24Other financial liabilities6,960,942LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
LIABILITIES Note 2020 2019December 31, December 31,As of As of
Other reserves
3,130,78225(4,193,615)
(178)
(1,388,185)
(2,435,713)352,272
(367,577)Retained earnings/(losses) 25Other financial liabilities 7 - 19
Trade and other accounts payables 7 - 20
Accounts payable to related entities 7 - 93,055,730 1,885,660
2,222,874
56
5,206
11,925
286,403
616,803
93,570
 
 
The accompanying Notes 1 to 37 form an integral part  of these consolidated financial statements.  
 
183 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020LATAM AIRLINES GROUP S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME BY FUNCTION  
 
Net income (loss) for the yearNET INCOME (LOSS) FOR THE YEAR (4,555,535) 195,613Income tax  ex pense / benefit 18Financial income27
(4,555,535)
(7.49642)
(7.49642)non-controlling interest 14Income (loss) attributable toIncome (loss) attributable to owners
Diluted earnings (losses) per share (US$)Basic earnings (losses) per share (US$) 30
30EARNINGS PER SHARE(9,648) 5,183(4,545,887) 190,430 of the parentIncome (loss) before tax es (5,105,723)
550,188141,916
53,697Result of index ation unitsForeign ex change gains/(losses) 29 (48,403)
9,348(32,571)
(14,989)50,397(692,939)
(1,874,789)
(4,530,086)Restructuring activities ex penses 27 (990,009)
Financial costs 27 (586,979)Other gains/(losses) 27Other ex penses 27
Income from operation activitiesNote 2020December 31,For the year ended
ThUS$2019
ThUS$
Other income 28 411,002
(294,278)
(499,512)Gross marginCost of sales 27
Administrative ex penses(589,561)Revenue 26 3,923,667 10,070,063
(7,951,269) (4,513,228)
Distribution costs 272,118,794
0.31403360,864
(580,046)
(735,218)
(422,792)
11,525
753,127
26,283
(589,934)
195,613
0.31403 - 
 
 
 The accompanying Notes 1 to 37 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.   
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME  
that will not be reclassified to income before taxes
that will be reclassified to income before taxes
11,8492,873
2,873
414
(183,764)
11,849(10,636)
(10,636)
(243,271)
15,250
(3,401)Note
Gains (losses) on currency translation, before tax 29Components of other comprehensive income Other comprehensive income, before taxes,
on defined benefit plans
(3,968)(3,968)
Total other comprehensive (loss)
that will not be reclassified to income before taxesgains by new measurements
25
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)(894,394)
to other comprehensive income (loss)income (loss), before taxes
Accumulate income tax relating 
that will not be reclassified to income 924
(5,571,984)Total Other comprehensive (loss) comprehensive loss will be reclassified to income 
Total comprehensive income (loss)For the year ended
December 31,
 ThUS$2019
 ThUS$
(4,555,535) 195,613 NET INCOM E 
Components of other comprehensive income 
   Currency translation differences2020
Income tax relating to new measurements
on defined benefit plans 18 924
that will be reclassified to income Income tax relating to other comprehensive income (loss)
959
959 414   comprehensive income (loss)   Income tax related to cash flow hedges in other 
(5,571,984)Income taxes related to components of other
Comprehensive income (loss) attributable to owners of the parent (5,566,991)
non-controlling interests (4,993)Comprehensive income (loss) attributable to (1,016,449)(119,970)    Gains (losses) on cash flow hedges before taxes 19 66,856   Cash flow hedges      Other comprehensive loss, before taxes, 
before taxes, cash flow hedges(894,394)    currency translation differences
66,856
(176,415)
(187,051)Other comprehensive income (losses), 
Total other comprehensive (loss)(243,271)
that will not be reclassified to income Income tax relating to other comprehensive income (119,970)
Other components of other comprehensive
(1,018,332)that will be reclassified to income before taxes (1,014,364)
 
 
The accompanying Notes 1 to 37 form an integral part of these interim consolidated financial statements.  
 
184 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020 
  
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY  
 
 
Other comprehensive income 
transfers and other changes, equityTotal
equit y
T h US$sundry
reserve
T h US$Other
T h US$earnings/(losses)Retained
T h US$ T h US$ Non-
controlling
interest
352,272
(1,388,185)T h US$
-
(4,193,615) (2,435,713) (6,672) (2,442,385)3,129,177
422
496 (74)- -
(74)-
496 496 --
(450)- - - -
2,452,019- -2,452,469
-
-
(25,985)36,289
- -(22,940)
Increase (decrease) through- 25 Dividends-reserve
T h US$
(178)
- - -
--56,892 (2,890,287)
- - -3,146,265T h US$Note capital
Total increase (decrease) in equity
Net income/(loss) for the period 25 -Treasury
shares interestow nershipParent's Total
other 
reserveSh ar e hedgingCurrency
translation
reserve reserve
- (4,545,887) (4,545,887) (9,648)Attributable to ow ners of the parent
Shares based
T h US$reservepaymentsor losses on
defined benefit
plans
T h US$ T h US$Actuarial gainsChange in other reserves
496 422(1,605)
(450) -Cash flow
T h US$
3,130,782 (367,577)
Closing balance as ofTotal transactions w ith shareholders
(3,790,513)(4,555,535)
- - (900,226) (117,833) (3,045) - -(1,021,104) -(1,021,104) 4,655 (1,016,449)
25-34
(60,941) 37,235946946
--Equity as of January 1, 2020
   December 31, 2020 (5,571,984) Total comprehensive income - - (900,226) (117,833) (3,045) - -(1,021,104) (4,993) (5,566,991) (4,545,887)
Transactions w ith shareholders
-
3,146,265 (178)
 
 
The accompanying Notes 1 to 37 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  
185 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020 
 LATAM AIRLINES GROUP S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 
 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY  
 
 
,Net income for the year 5,183 190,430
-
(7,762) 66,225 (233,643)Other comprehensive income Total
equit y
T h US$sundry
reserve
T h US$
79,908 218,971 3,440,601T h US$earningsRetained
2,638,916 (4,365) 3,360,693
(57,129)
(188,032) (188,032)-(183,764)
11,849
(266,144)-
- (57,129) (57,129) -195,613
(78,112)190,430
(367,577) 352,272 3,130,782 (1,605)(188,032) (78,112) (57,129)
3,129,177--
-
-
(22,940)-
(186,447)
2,452,469- -
(2,890,287) 56,892 36,289(1,585)(1,585)
--
December 31, 2019Increase (decrease) throughTotal increase (decrease) in equity
-
3,146,265 (178)---
Closing balance as ofTotal transactions w ith shareholders--
- - --
- (233,643)
-- -reserve
T h US$
-reserve
(2,656,644) (9,333)
transfers and other changes, equityTotal comprehensive income --
Transactions w ith shareholders25 -
25 DividendsT h US$
25-34Note capital interestow nershipParent's Total
other 
reserveSh ar e hedgingCurrency
translation
reserve Non-
controlling
interestAttributable to ow ners of the parent
66,225Shares based
T h US$reservepaymentsor losses on
defined benefit
plans
T h US$Other
(175,180)3,146,265 (178) 37,874Treasury
shares
(15,178)
-T h US$
-
(7,762)-
(8,584)T h US$ T h US$ T h US$
Equity as of January 1, 2019Actuarial gainsChange in other reserves
(245,161) (323,273)(3,401)
(186,447) -(175,180)190,430Cash flow
T h US$
15,250 (175,180)
 
 
The accompanying Notes 1 to 37 form an integral part of these consolidated financi al statements.  
186 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020 
  
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP S.A. AND SUBSIDIARIES  
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS - DIRECT METHOD  
 -  (1,140,940)
75,566
(324,264)35 13,593
(494,697)
Cash flows from investing activities
Other cash inflows (outflows)Purchases of property, plant and equipmentOther payments to acquire equity 
Purchases of intangible assetsAmounts raised from sale of property, plant and equipment
before effect of exchanges rate change 
Effects of variation in the exchange rate on cash and cash equivalentsNet increase in cash and cash equivalentsInterest receivedOther cash receipts from sales of equity or debt 
instruments of other entities
or debt instruments of other entities
35
Amounts raised from long-term loansPayments for changes in ownership interests in 
subsidiaries that do not result in loss of control
Loans from Related Entities 
1,120,829 Net cash inflow (outflow) from financing activitiesDividends paid
Other cash inflows (outflows)(571)
(210,418)560,296
(793,712)
(122,062)(3,225)
351,425,184
373,125
(1,343,521)
63,939
(73,002)
(9,063)1,464,012
(75,433)
(2,192)
33,6084,063,582
(4,131,890)
50,322
(1,276,621)
(140,173)
659,740
(36,478)(107,788)
623,262Payments of lease liabilities
Interest paidLoans repayments
1,072,579
1,695,8413536,859
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE END OF YEAR 66 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE BEGINNING OF YEARNet increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalentsNet cash inflow (outflow) from investing activities
Amounts raised from short-term loans(2,249)
(1,419,207)Income taxes (paid) (45,311)
241,286
2,826,667
Cash flows from financing activitiesNet cash (outflow) inflow from operating activitiesOther cash inflows (outflows)(3,817,339)
(1,227,010)4,620,409
51,900Proceeds from sales of goods and services
Other cash receipts from operating activitiesCash flows from operating activities
Cash collection from operating activitiesNoteFor the year ended
December 31,
Payments for operating activities
Payments to suppliers for goods and services
Payments to and on behalf of employees
Other payments for operating activities11,079,333
127,683
(6,663,875)
(1,644,806)
(267,643)2020 2019
 ThUS$  ThUS$
1,081,642
1,072,579(294,105)
1,781,728
93,000
(1,860,455)
(398,992)
(55,116)
(550,877)
(58,704)(70,558)
(65,692)
17,822
 
The accompanying Notes 1 to 37 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  
 
187 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020 
 
 LATAM AIRLINES GROUP S.A.  AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 
NOTES TO THE  CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
 
AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2020 AN D 2019  
 
NOTE 1 - GENERAL INFORMATION  
 
LATAM Airlines Group S.A. (the "Company") is an open stock company registered with the Commission for the Financial Market under No. 306, whose shares are listed in Chile on the 
Electronic Stock Exchange of Chile - Stock Exchange and the Santiago Stock Exchange. After 
Chapter 11 filing, the ADR program is no longer trading on NYSE. Since then Latam’s ADR are 
trading in the United States of America on the OTC (Over -The-Counter) market s. 
Its main business is the air transport of passengers and cargo, both in the domestic markets of Chile, 
Peru, Colombia, Ecuador and Brazil, as well as in a series of regional and international routes in 
America, Europe and Oceania. These businesses are d eveloped directly or by its subsidiaries in 
Ecuador, Peru, Brazil, Colombia, Argentina and Paraguay. In addition, the Company has subsidiaries that operate in the cargo business in Chile, Brazil and Colombia.  
The Company is located in Chile, in the city of  Santiago, on Avenida Américo Vespucio Sur No. 
901, Renca commune.  
As of December 31, 2020, the Company's statutory capital is represented by 604,407,693 ordinary shares without nominal value. All shares are subscribed and paid considering the capital redu ction 
that occurred in full, after the legal period of three years to subscribe the balance of 466.382 
outstanding shares, of the last capital increase approved in August of the year 2016.  
 
The major shareholders of the Company are Delta Air Lines who owns  20% of the shares and the 
Cueto Group, which through the companies Costa Verde Aeronáutica S.A., Costa Verde 
Aeronáutica SpA, and Inv. Costa Verde Ltda y Cia at CPA., owns 16.39% of the shares issued by 
the Company. 
 
As of December 31, 2020, the Company h ad a total of 4,131 shareholders in its registry. At that 
date, approximately 8.75% of the Company's property was in the form of ADRs.  
 For the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company had an average of 35,717 employees, ending 
this year with a total numb er of 29,115 people, distributed in 4,477 Administration employees, 
15,664 in Operations, 5,918 Cabin Crew and 3,056 Command crew.  
 2 
 
 The main subsidiaries included in these consolidated financial statements are as follows:  
 a) Participation rate  
Latam Travel Chile  S.A. and Subsidiary Chile
Chile
Chile
Chile
Chile
Chile
ChileChile
99,8300 0,1700 100,0000
63,0901 36,9099 100,0000100,0000 0,0000 100,0000
100,0000 0,0000 100,0000
100,0000 0,0000 100,000023,6200 76,1900 99,8100
99,8940 0,0041 99,8981
Foreign Latam Finance Limited Cayman Island US$ 100,0000 0,0000 100,0000
US$ 100,0000 0,0000 100,0000
100,0000 63,0901 36,9099100,0000 0,000099,8900 0,1100 100,0000
96,2208 3,7792 100,0000
99,0000 1,0000
Foreign Peuco Finance Limited Cayman IslandForeign
Foreign TAM S.A. and Subsidiaries (*) Brazil BRL99,7100 0,2900 100,0000
96.847.880-K Technical Trainning LATAM S.A. CLP96.969.690-8 Lan Cargo Inversiones S.A. and Subsidiary US$
96.575.810-0 Inversiones Lan S.A. and Subsidiaries US$99,0000 1,0000 100,0000 100,0000
99,7100 0,2900 100,0000
99,8300 0,1700 100,0000Foreign Lan Cargo Overseas Limited and Subsidiaries Bahamas US$Foreign Laser Cargo S.R.L. Argentina ARS
99,9800 0,0200 100,000096,2208 3,7792 100,0000
99,9800 0,0200 100,000096.631.520-2 Fast Air Almacenes de Carga S.A. CLP 99,8900 0,1100 100,0000Prime Airport Services Inc. and Subsidiary U.S.A. US$ 99,9714 0,0286 100,0000 99,9714 0,0286 100,0000
0,0000 100,0000 100,0000 96.951.280-7 Transporte Aéreo S .A. US$ 99,9999 0,0001 100,0000Foreign Connecta Corporation U.S.A. US$93.383.000-4 Lan Cargo S.A. US$
100,0000 0,0000 100,0000 100,0000 0,0000 100,0000Foreign Latam Airlines Perú S .A. Peru US$ 49,0000 21,0000 70,0000
99,8940 0,0041 99,898196.969.680-0 Lan Pax Group S.A. and Subsidiaries US$ 99,8361 0,1639 100,0000 99,8361 0,1639 100,0000US$ 96.518.860-6  -  -  -  -  -  - % % % % % %Company Tax No. of origin CurrencyCountry Functional As December 31, 2019
Direct Indirect TotalAs December 31, 2020
Direct Indirect Total
100,0000
Foreign Jarletul S.A. Uruguay US$ 99,0000 1,0000 100,0000 99,0000 1,0000 100,0000Foreign Profesional Airline Services INC. U.S.A. US$
 
(*)    As of December 31, 2020, the indirect pa rticipation percentage on TAM S.A. and 
Subsidiaries is from Holdco I S.A., a company over which LATAM Airlines Group S.A. it has a 
99.9983% share on economic rights and 51.04% of political rights. Its percentage arise as a result of 
the provisional measure  No. 863 of the Brazilian government implemented in December 2018 that 
allows foreign capital to have up to 100% of the property.  
 
 
188 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 20203 
 
 b) Financial Information  
Latam Travel Chile  S.A. and Subsidiary
96.847.880-K Technical Trainning LATAM S.A. 2,1 81 625 1 ,5566 4 , 110
50 1 ,329 50 1 ,279500
Peuco Fi nance L i mi ted 1 ,307,721 1 ,307,721  - 664,458 664,458  - (1 05,1 00) (90,736)F o re ign L an Cargo Overseas L i mi ted 8,556
 -  - ( 10 )( 18 1)
(39,032)
(332)60 (282)20,1 82 1 2,601 7,581 500
1 ,362,762 1 ,531 ,238 (1 68,476)
 -  - Statement of financial position Net I ncome
ThUS $ ThUS $2020
ThUS $ ThUS $Tax No. Company Assets Lia bilitie s Equity Ga in /(lo s s )For the y ear ended
As of December 31 , 2020 December 31 , As of December 31 , 201 9
Assets Lia bilitie s Equity
ThUS $ ThUS $ ThUS $
 - 96.51 8.860-6  - 
634,852 462,666 1 72,1 86(1 75,485) 51 9,36396.969.680-0 Lan P ax Group S.A. and Subsidiaries (* ) 404,944 1 ,624,944 (1 ,21 9,539) (290,980) 632,673 1 ,487,248 (853,624)
(1 ,025,81 4)and Subsidiaries (* ) 21 8,435 1 4,355 203,829 (92,623)
96.969.690-8 Lan Cargo I nversiones S.A. and Subsidiary (* ) 250,027 86,691 1 30,823 1 ,452
96.575.81 0-0 I nversiones Lan S.A. and Subsidiaries (* ) 1 ,394 65 1 ,329
F o re ign L atam Fi nance L i mi ted 1 ,31 0,735 1 ,584,31 1 (273,576)
F o re ign
F o re ign TAM S.A. and Subsidiaries (* ) 3,1 1 0,055 3,004,935 1 05,1 20F o re ign J a rle tul S .A. 34 1 ,076 (1 ,042)F o re ign L aser Cargo S. R. L . (6)  - 96.951 .280-7 Transporte Aéreo S.A. 546,21 6 347,71 4
( 10 ) (6)96.631 .520-2 Fast Ai r Al macenes de Carga S. A. 20,1 32 11, 5 7 61 98,5021 0,936
F o re ign Pri me Ai rport Servi ces I nc.  and Subsi di ary  (* ) 25,050 26,265 (1 ,21 5)F o re ign Connecta Corporation 57,922 -  - 
1 7,335 40,58793.383.000-4 La n C a rgo  S .A. 749,789 567,1 28 1 82,661F o re ign La ta m  Airline s  P e rú S .A. 661 ,721 486,098 1 75,623 -  -  - 
8,691
15 0 860 ( 7 10 )24,023 40,087
22,068 23,1 02 (1 ,034)
359,335 1 42,423 21 6,91 251 0,672
5,090,1 80 3,550,875 1 ,539,30548,929 1 5,228 33,450
65,422 78,890 ( 12 , 111)
2,378 1 ,075 1 ,303
(603)
1 86,1 40201 9
ThUS $
 - 
(26,551 )
(3,550)
(4,1 57)
1 ,677
802
14 , 6 10
796
 - 
(6,579)
(2,497)
(54)
1, 0 14 1 ,096 F o re ign P ro fe s io na l Airline   S e rvic e s  INC . 1 7,345 1 4,772 2,573 3,509 1 ,950 1 ,559
 
(*) The Equity reported corresponds to Equity attributable to owners of the parent, it does not 
include Non -controlling interest.  
 In addition , special purpose entities have been consolidated: 1. Chercán Leasing Limited, intended 
to finance advance payments of aircraft; 2. Guanay Finance Limited, intended for the issue of a securitized bond with future credit card payments; 3. Private investment  funds; 4. Dia Patagonia 
Limited, Alma Leasing C.O. Limited, FC Initial Leasing Limited, Vari Leasing Limited, Dia Iguazu Limited, Condor Leasing C.O. Limited, FI Timothy Leasing Limited, Yamasa Sangyo Aircraft LA1 Kumiai, Yamasa Sangyo Aircraft LA2 Kumiai , LS-Aviation No.17 Co. Limited, LS -
Aviation No.18 Co. Limited, LS -Aviation No.19 C.O. Limited, LS -Aviation No.20 C.O. Limited, 
LS-Aviation No.21 C.O. Limited, LS -Aviation No.22 C.O. Limited, LS -Aviation No.23 Co. 
Limited, and LS -Aviation No.24 Co. Limited , requirements for financing aircraft. These companies 
have been consolidated as required by IFRS 10.  
 All entities over which Latam has control have been included in the consolidation. The Company 
has analyzed the control criteria in accordance with the r equirements of IFRS 10. For those 
subsidiaries that filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 11 (See note 2 to the consolidated financial statements), although in this reorganization process in certain cases decisions are subject to 
authorization by the Court, c onsidering that the Company and various subsidiaries filed for 
bankruptcy before the same Court, and before the same judge, the Court generally views the 
consolidated entity as a single group and management considers that the Company continues to 
maintain control over its subsidiaries and therefore have considered appropriate to continue to 
consolidate these subsidiaries.  
 4 
 
 Changes occurred in the consolidation perimeter between January 1, 2019 and December 31, 2020, 
are detailed below:  
 (1) Incorporation or acq uisition of companies  
 
- On December 22, 2020, Línea Aérea Carguera de Colombia S.A. carries out a capital increase for 1,861,785 shares, consequently, its shareholding composition is as follows: 
LATAM Airlines Group S.A. with 4.57%, Fast Air S.A. with 1.53% , Inversiones Lan S.A. 
with 1.53%, Lan Pax Group S.A. with 1.53% and Lan Cargo Inversiones S.A. 81.31%.  
 
- On December 22, 2020, Inversiones Aéreas S.A. carries out a capital increase for 9,504,335 
shares, consequently its shareholding composition as follows : LATAM Airlines Group S.A. 
with 33.41%, Línea Aérea Carguera de Colombia S.A. with 66.43% and Mas Investment Limited with 0.16%.  
 
- On December 22, 2020, Latam Airlines Perú S.A. carries out a capital increase for 12,312,020 shares, consequently its shareho lding composition as follows: LATAM Airlines 
Group S.A. with 23.62% and Inversiones Aéreas S.A. with 76.19%.  
 
- On December 16, 2020, Lan Pax Group S.A. carries out capital increase for 23,678 shares. 
However, the shareholding composition has not changed.  
 
- On December 18, 2020, Latam Ecuador S.A. carries out a capital increase for 30,000,000 
shares. However, the shareholding composition is not modified.  
 
- On March 23, 2020, Transporte Aéreo S.A. carries out a capital increase for 109,662 shares which were acqu ired by Mas Investment Limited, consequently, the shareholding of 
Transporte Aéreo S.A. is as follows: Lan Cargo S.A. with 87.12567%, Inversiones Lan S.A. with 0.00012% and Mas Investment Limited with 12.87421%.  
 
- In April 2019, TAM Linhas Aereas S.A, throu gh a public offering of shares, acquired 27.26% 
of the shares of Multiplus S.A., owned by minority shareholders. Subsequently, the Company 
TAM S.A assigned 72,74% of its stake in Multiplus S.A., through a capital increase, to TAM 
Linhas Aerea S.A.; Because  of 100% of the shares remain under the control of TAM Linhas 
Aereas S.A. a merge with Multiplus S.A. was materialized, leaving Multiplus S.A. from being an independent company on May 31, 2019. As result of the merger by incorporation, the Coalition and Lo yalty Program of Multiplus S.A. which was identified as an independent 
Cash Generating Unit (CGU), and which also represented an operating segment, becomes part, as well as, the other loyalty programs of the group (LATAM Pass and LATAM 
Fidelidade), of the CGU Air Transport. Additionally, from that moment LATAM has a single 
operating segment within the Group.  
 
The value of the acquisition of this transaction was ThUS $ 294,105.  
 - By public deed dated November 20, 2019 LATAM Airlines Group S.A. acquires 100% o f the 
shares of LATAM Travel Chile S.A.  
 
Under the provisions of No. 2 of Art. 103 of Law No. 18,046 on Corporations, for having collected all the shares held by a single shareholder and for having elapsed the period of 10 
189 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 20205 
 
 days without having amended said situation, the company LATAM Travel Chile S.A. It has 
been fully dissolved on December 1, 2019.  
 
As a result of the dissolution of the company LATAM Travel Chile S.A., the company LATAM Airlines Group S.A. assumes from that date all obligations and rights corresponding 
to the first.  
 
 
 
NOTE 2 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  
 The following describes the principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these 
consolidated finan cial statements.  
 
2.1. Basis of Preparation  
 
These consolidated financial statements of LATAM Airlines Group S.A. have been prepared in 
accordance with the Intern ational Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board ("IASB") and with the interpretations issued by the interpretations 
committee of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRIC).  
 The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historic -cost criterion, although 
modified by the valuation at fair value of certain financial instruments.  
 
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the use  
of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires management to use its judgment in applying 
the Company’s accounting policies. Note 4 shows the areas that imply a greater degree of judgment 
or complexity or the areas where the assumptions and es timates are significant to the consolidated 
financial statements.  
 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the accounting policies used by the Company for the consolidated financial statements 2019, except for the 
standa rds and interpretations adopted as of January 1, 2020.  
 (a) Accounting pronouncements with implementation effective from January 1, 2020:  
 
 
 
(i)    Standards and amendments  Date of issue  Effective Date:  
 
   
   
Amendment to IFRS 3: Business combinations.  October 2018  01/01/2020  
   
Amendment to IAS 1: Presentation of Financial Statements 
and IAS 8 Accounting policies, changes in accounting 
estimates and errors.  October 2018 01/01/2020  
   
Amendment to IFRS 9: Financial instruments; IAS 39: 
Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement; and 
IFRS 7: Financial Instruments: Disclosure   
September 2019   
01/01/2020  
 
 
The application of these accounting pronouncements as of January 1, 2020, had no significant effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements.  6 
 
 (b)   Accounting pronouncements not in force for the financial years beginning on January 1, 2020:  
 
(b.1.) Not early adopted:  
 
 
 
(i)    Standards and amendments  Date of issue  Effective Date:  
 
   
Amendment to IFRS 9: Financial instruments; IAS  39: 
Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement;  
IFRS 7: Financial Instruments: Disclosure; IFRS 4: 
Insurance contracts; and IFRS 16: Leases.  August 2020  01/01/2021  
   
   
Amendment to IFRS 4: Insurance contracts  June 2020  01/01/2023  
   
Amendm ent to IFRS 17: Insurance contracts.  June 2020  01/01/2023  
   
Amendment to IFRS 3: Business combinations.  May 2020  01/01/2022  
   
Amendment to IAS 37: Provisions, contingent liabilities and 
contingent assets.  May 2020  01/01/2022  
   
Amendment to IAS 16:  Property, plant and equipment.  May 2020  01/01/2022  
   
Amendment to IAS 1: Presentation of financial statements.  January 2020  01/01/2023  
   
IFRS 17: Insurance contracts  May 2017  01/01/2023  
   
Amendment to IFRS 10: Consolidated financial statements 
and IAS 28: Investments in associates and joint ventures.  September 2014  Not determined  
   
(ii) Improvements    
Improvements to International Information Standards  
Financial (2018 -2020 cycle) IFRS 1: First -time adoption of 
international financial reporting  standards, IFRS 9: 
Financial Instruments, illustrative examples accompanying 
IFRS 16: Leases, IAS 41: Agriculture  May 2020  01/01/2022  
 
The Company's management estimates that the adoption of the standards, amendments and 
interpretations described above w ill not have a significant impact on the Company's consolidated 
financial statements in the exercise of their first application.  
 (b.2.) Early adopted standard:  
 
 
(i)    Standards and amendments  Date of issue  Effective Date:  
   
Amendment to IFRS 16: Leas es. May 2020  06/01/2020  
 
(b.3.) Adoption of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments for hedge accounting:  
 On January 1, 2018, the effective adoption date of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, the Company established the accounting policy to continue applying IAS 39 Fina ncial Instruments: Recognition 
and Measurement for hedge accounting. On January 1, 2021, the Company will modify this accounting policy and adopt IFRS 9 in relation to hedge accounting, aligning the requirements for 
hedge accounting with the Company's risk management policies.  
 
190 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 20207 
 
 The Company has evaluated the hedge relationships in force as of December 31, 2020, and has 
determined that they meet the criteria for hedge accounting under IFRS 9 Financial Instruments as 
of January 1, 2021 and, consequently, they will be considered relationships continuous coverage.  
 
The time value of the options used as hedging instruments, effective at the closing of these 
Consolidated Financial Statements, will not continue to be designated as part of the hedging 
relationship bu t their recognition will continue in Other Comprehensive Income until the forecast 
transaction occurs at which time will be recognized in the income statement. As of December 31, 2020, the amount recognized in Equity corresponding to the temporal value of the options is        
ThUS $ (380).  
 The hedge accounting requirements of IFRS 9 will be applied prospectively. The Company 
estimates that the application of this part of the standard will not have significant impact on 
consolidated financial statements.  
 
The Company is modifying the documentation of the existing hedging relationships as of December 
31, 2020 in accordance with the provisions of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments.  
 (c)  Chapter 11 Filing and Going Concern  
 
The accompanying consolidated financial s tatements have been prepared on a going concern basis, 
which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business.  As disclosed in the accompanying consolidated financial statements, the Company 
incur red a net loss attributable to owners of the parent of US$ 4,546 million for the year ended 
December 31, 2020. As of that date, the Company has a negative working capital of US$ 4,348 million and will require additional working capital during 2021 to suppo rt a sustainable business 
operation. As of December 31, 2020, the company has negative equity of US$ 2,436 million, which 
corresponds to the attributable equity to the owners of the parent.  
 
On May 26, 2020 (the “Initial Petition Date”), LATAM Airlines Gro up S.A. and certain of its direct 
and indirect subsidiaries (collectively, the “Initial Debtors”) filed voluntary petitions for 
reorganization (the “Initial Bankruptcy Filing”) under chapter 11 of title 11 of the United States 
Code (the “Bankruptcy Code”) in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of 
New York (the “Bankruptcy Court”).  On July 7, 2020 (the “Piquero Petition Date”), Piquero Leasing Limited (“Piquero”) also filed a petition for reorganization with the Bankruptcy Court (th e 
“Piquero Bankruptcy Filing”).  On July 9, 2020 (together with the Initial Petition Date and Piquero 
Petition Date, as applicable, the “Petition Date”), TAM S.A. and certain of its subsidiaries in Brazil 
(together with the Initial Debtors and Piquero, the  “Debtors”) also filed petitions for reorganization 
(together with the Initial Bankruptcy Filing and the Piquero Bankruptcy Filing, the “Bankruptcy Filing”), as a consequence of the prolonged effects of the COVID -19 Pandemic. The Bankruptcy 
Filing for each  of the Debtors is being jointly administered under the caption “In re LATAM 
Airlines Group S.A.” Case Number 20 -11254.  The Debtors will continue to operate their 
businesses as “debtors -in-possession” under the jurisdiction of the Bankruptcy Court and in 
accordance with the applicable provisions of the Bankruptcy Code and orders of the Bankruptcy Court.  
 The Bankruptcy Filing is intended to permit the Company to reorganize and improve liquidity, wind 
down unprofitable contracts and amend its capacity purc hase agreements to enable sustainable 8 
 
 profitability.  The Company’s goal is to develop and implement a plan of reorganization that meets the standards for confirmation under the Bankruptcy Code.  
As part of their overall reorganization process, the Debtors also have sought and received relief in 
certain non -U.S. jurisdictions.  On May 27, 2020, the Grand Court of the Cayman Islands granted 
the applications of certain of the Debtors for the appointment of provisional liquidators (“JPLs”) 
pursuant to section 1 04(3) of the Companies Law (2020 Revision).  On June 4, 2020, the 2nd Civil 
Court of Santiago, Chile issued an order recognizing the Chapter 11 proceeding with respect to the LATAM Airlines Group S.A., Lan Cargo S.A., Fast Air Almacenes de Carga S.A., Lata m Travel 
Chile II S.A., Lan Cargo Inversiones S.A., Transporte Aéreo S.A., Inversiones Lan S.A., Lan Pax 
Group S.A. and Technical Training LATAM S.A.  All remedies filed against the order have been 
rejected and the decision is, then, final.  Finally, on Ju ne 12, 2020, the Superintendence of 
Companies of Colombia granted recognition to the Chapter 11 proceedings.  On July 10, 2020, the Grand Court of the Cayman Islands granted the Debtors’ application for the appointment of JPLs to 
Piquero Leasing Limited.  
 
Operation and Implication of the Bankruptcy Filing:  
 The Debtors continue to operate their businesses and manage their properties as debtors -in-
possession pursuant to sections 1107(a) and 1108 of the Bankruptcy Code.  As debtors -in-
possession, the Debtors are authorized to engage in transactions within the ordinary course of 
business without prior authorization of the Bankruptcy Court.  The protections afforded by the 
Bankruptcy Code allows the Debtors to operate their business without interruption, and the  
Bankruptcy Court has granted additional relief including, inter alia, the authority, but not the obligation, to (i) pay amounts owed under certain critical airline agreements; (ii) pay certain third -
parties who hold liens or other possessory interests in the Debtors’ property; (iii) pay employee 
wages and continue employee benefit programs; (iv) pay prepetition taxes and related fees; (v) continue insurance and surety bond programs; (vi) pay certain de minimis litigation judgements or 
settlements without p rior approval of the Bankruptcy Court; (vii) pay fuel supplies; and (viii) pay 
certain foreign vendors and certain vendors deemed critical to the Debtors’ operations.  
 
As debtors -in-possession, the Debtors may use, sell, or lease property of their estates,  subject to the 
Bankruptcy Court’s approval if not otherwise in the ordinary course of business.  The Debtors have 
not yet prepared or filed with the Bankruptcy Court a plan of reorganization, and, pursuant to 
section 1121 of the Bankruptcy Code, have the exclusive right to propose such a plan on or before 
June 30, 2021, or such later date as may be further ordered by the Bankruptcy Court.   The ultimate plan of reorganization, which can only be adopted after meeting all requirements set forth in sections 1 126 and 1129 of the Bankruptcy Code and subject to approval by the Bankruptcy Court, 
could materially change the amounts and classifications in the consolidated financial statements, including the value, if any, of the Debtors’ prepetition liabilities and securities.  
 Events Leading to the Chapter 11 Cases:  
 
Since the first quarter of 2020, the passenger air transportation business has been affected 
worldwide by a significant decrease in international air traffic, due to the closure of international 
borders  with the aim of protecting the population from the effects of COVID -19, an infectious 
disease caused by a new virus, declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization.  
 
LATAM’s preliminary assessment in the beginning of March 2020 indicated previous d isease 
outbreaks have peaked after few months and recovered pre -outbreak levels in no more than 6 to 7 
191 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 20209 
 
 months, and the effect with scenery impacting mainly on Asia Pacific Airlines, indicating impact on 
Latin America of a marginal decrease of Revenue Per K ilometers forecast.  
 For the Company, the reduction in its operation began in the middle of March 2020 with the announcement of a 30% decrease in its operations and the suspension of the guidance for 2020 in 
line with protection measures and boarding restr ictions implemented by local governments (March 
16, 2020 for Peru, Colombia and Argentina, March 18, 2020 for Chile and March 27, 2020 for Brazil). On March 16, 2020, the Company announced an update of its projection to a progressive 
decrease in its operat ion up to 70%.  
 
By March 29, 2020, COVID 19 had already generated an unprecedented shock on Airlines Industry, 
specifically on airlines passenger revenue. The situation has both broadened and deepened beyond 
the initial assessment.   
 
In response to COVID 19, governments have been imposing much more severe border restrictions 
and airlines have been subsequently announcing sharp capacity cuts in response to a dramatic drop 
in travel demand. On April 2, 2020, the Company announced a decrease in its operation by 95%.  
 The Company’s passenger traffic for the year ended December 31, 2020, decreased by 65,8% compared to the year 2019.  
 In order to protect liquidity, the Company has carried out financial transactions, such as the use of 
funds from the Revolving Cre dit Facility (Revolving Credit Facility) for US $ 600 million, which 
have affected its financial assets and liabilities, especially the items of Cash and cash equivalents and other financial liabilities.  
 
In the second quarter of 2020, the Company estimate d that reactivation of its operations would 
occur during the third and fourth quarters of 2020. At this time there is an approximately 30% increase in the Company’s operations, however, the exact moment and pace of the full recovery are 
uncertain, given th e significant impact of the pandemic on the countries in which it operates.  
 
Among the initiatives that the Company studied and committed to protect liquidity were the 
following:  
 
(i) Reduction and postponement of the investment plan for different projects;  
(ii) Implementation of control measurements for payments to suppliers and purchases of new 
goods and services;  
(iii) Negotiation of the payment conditions with suppliers;  
(iv) Ticket refunds via travel vouchers and Frequent Flyer Program points and miles; all in all, the LA TAM Group will continue to honor all current and future tickets, as well as travel 
vouchers, frequent flyer miles and benefits, and flexibility policies;  
(v) Temporary reduction of salaries, considering the legal framework of each country: as of the second qua rter, the Company implemented a voluntary process to reduce salaries in force 
until December 31, 2020. Associated with the restructuring plan and in order to adapt to the new demand scenario, the company has designed a staff reduction plan in the different  
countries where it operates. The costs associated with the execution of this plan were recorded in income as Restructuring activities expenses. (See note 27d);  
(vi) Short -term debt and debt maturities renewal;  
(vii) Governmental loan request in different countries i n which the company operates; and  10 
 
 (viii) Reduction of non -essential fleet and non -fleet investments.  
 The Company, in consultation with its advisors, also evaluated a variety of potential restructuring 
options.  In the opinion of the Board, the timings for a conv entional bilateral process, the possibility 
that creditors may have decided to engage in collection actions, the impossibility of curing defaults 
and the need to implement a comprehensive restructuring of LATAM Airlines to which all its 
creditors and other  interested parties must join, lead the Board to consider an in -court bankruptcy 
proceedings the best alternative.  
 In addition, the Board noted that other benefits of an in -court bankruptcy proceeding, including the 
imposition of the Bankruptcy Code’s “au tomatic stay,” which protects the Company from efforts by 
creditors and other interested parties to take action in respect of pre -bankruptcy debt, but which, at 
the same time, allows it to continue operating with its main assets, suppliers, financial parti es, 
regulators and employees, while structuring a binding reorganization to be financially viable in a 
post-pandemic scenario.  
 
Due to the foregoing, and after consulting the administration and the legal and financial advisors of 
the Company, on May 26, 20 20 the Board has resolved unanimously that LATAM Airlines should 
initiate a reorganization process in the United States of America according to the rules established 
in the Bankruptcy Code by filing a voluntary petition for relief in accordance with the sa me. 
 Since the Chapter 11 filing, the Company secured up to US$ 2.45 billion in a debtor -in-possession 
financing facility (the “DIP Facility”) (See Note 3.1 c)).  
 
Plan of Reorganization:  
 
In order for the Company to emerge successfully from Chapter 11, the  Company must obtain the 
Bankruptcy Court’s approval of a plan of reorganization, which will enable the Company to transition from Chapter 11 into ordinary course operations outside of bankruptcy.  In connection 
with a plan of reorganization, the Company a lso may require a new credit facility, or “exit 
financing.”  The Company’s ability to obtain such approval and financing will depend on, among 
other things, the timing and outcome of various ongoing matters related to the Bankruptcy Filing.  
A plan of reor ganization determines the rights and satisfaction of claims of various creditors and 
parties -in-interest, and is subject to the ultimate outcome of negotiations and Bankruptcy Court 
decisions ongoing through the date on which the plan of reorganization is confirmed.  On October 
1, 2020, the Court entered an order extending the period by which the Debtors have the exclusive 
right to submit a plan of reorganization through and including January 29, 2021; on January 12, 
2021, the Company requested a further ex tension until June 30, 2021.  The Bankruptcy Court 
granted a further extension until June 30, 2021.  
The Company presently expects that any proposed plan of reorganization will provide, among other 
things, mechanisms for settlement of claims against the De btors’ estates, treatment of the 
Company’s existing equity and debt holders, and certain corporate governance and administrative 
matters pertaining to the reorganized Company.  Any proposed plan of reorganization will be 
subject to revision prior to submis sion to the Bankruptcy Court based upon discussions with the 
Company’s creditors and other interested parties, and thereafter in response to interested parties’ objections and the requirements of the Bankruptcy Code and Bankruptcy Court.  There can be no 
assurance that the Company will be able to secure approval for the Company’s proposed plan of 
reorganization from the Bankruptcy Court.   
192 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202011 
 
 Going Concern:  
 
These Consolidated Financial Statements have also been prepared on a going concern basis, which 
contemplates continuity of operations, realization of assets and satisfaction of liabilities in the ordinary course of business. Accordingly, the Consolidated Financial Statements do not include any 
adjustments relating to the recoverability of assets and classif ication of liabilities that might be 
necessary should the Debtors be unable to continue as a going concern.  
 
As a result of the Chapter 11 proceedings, the satisfaction of the Company’s liabilities and funding of ongoing operations are subject to uncertain ty as a product of the COVID -19 pandemic and the 
impossibility of knowing its duration at this date and, accordingly, there is a substantial doubt regarding the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. There is no assurance that the 
Company will b e able to emerge successfully from Chapter 11.  Additionally, there is no assurance 
that long -term funding would be available at rates and on terms and conditions that would be 
financially acceptable and viable to the Company in the long term.  If the Comp any is unable to 
generate additional working capital or raise additional financing when needed, it may not able to 
reinitiate currently suspended operations as a result of the COVID -19 pandemic, sell assets or enter 
into a merger or other combination with a third party, any of which could adversely affect the value 
of the Company’s common stock, or render it worthless.  If the Company issues additional debt or equity securities, such securities may enjoy rights, privileges and priorities superior to those 
enjoyed by holders of the Company’s common stock, thereby diluting the value of the Company’s 
common stock.  Additionally, in connection with the Chapter 11 Filing, material modifications could be made to the Company’s fleet and capacity purchase agreements .  These modifications 
could materially affect the Company’s financial results going forward, and could result in future impairment charges.  
 
Chapter 11 Milestones  
 Notice to Creditors - Effect of the Automatic Stay:   
 The Debtors have notified all known current or potential creditors that the Chapter 11 Cases were 
filed.  Pursuant to the Bankruptcy Code and subject to certain limited exceptions, the filing of the 
Chapter 11 Cases gave rise to an automatic, worldwide injunction that precludes, among other 
things, any act to (i) obtain possession of property of or from the Debtors’ estates, (ii) create, 
perfect, or enforce any lien against property of the Debtors’ estates; (iii) exercise control over 
property of the Debtors’ estate, wherever in the world tha t property may be located; and further 
enjoined or stayed (iv) and also ordered or suspended the commencement or continuation of any 
judicial, administrative, or other action or proceeding against the debtor that could have been 
commenced before the Petiti on Date or efforts to recover a claim against the Debtors that arose 
before the Petition Date.  Vendors are being paid for goods furnished and services provided postpetition in the ordinary course of business.  
 
On August 31, 2020 (the “First Stay Motion”),  and December 30, 2020 (the “Second Stay 
Motion”), Corporación Nacional de Consumidores y Usuarios de Chile (“CONADECUS”) filed two motions in the Bankruptcy Court seeking relief from the automatic stay in order prosecute 
certain actions against LATAM that  are currently pending before the courts of Chile.  LATAM filed 
a brief in opposition to the First Stay Motion, and on December 16, 2020, the Bankruptcy Court heard oral arguments on the First Stay Motion.  At that hearing, the Bankruptcy Court granted the  
First Stay Motion for the limited purpose of allowing CONADECUS to further prosecute its 12 
 
 pending appeal before the courts of Chile.  On February 9, 2021, the Bankruptcy Court granted the Second Stay Motion on the same narrow grounds as the First Stay Moti on.  The Bankruptcy Court’s 
decisions on the First Stay Motion and Second Stay Motion did not affect the underlying proceedings in Chile beyond allowing CONADECUS to continue its pending appeals.  
 
Appointment of the Creditors’ Committee:  
 On June 5, 2020, the United States Trustee for Region 2 appointed an official committee of 
unsecured creditors (the “Creditors’ Committee”) in the Initial Chapter 11 Cases.  The United States 
Trustee has not solicited additional members for the Creditors’ Committee as a re sult of TAM S.A. 
or any of its applicable subsidiaries joining the Bankruptcy Filing.  On June 12, 2020, one of the Creditors’ Committee’s members, Compañía de Seguros de Vida Consorcio Nactional de Seguros 
S.A. resigned from the Creditors’ Committee.  No trustee or examiner has been appointed in any of 
these Chapter 11 Cases.  No other official committee have been solicited or appointed.  
 Assumption & Rejection of Executory Contracts:  
 Pursuant to the Bankruptcy Code and the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Pro cedure (the “Bankruptcy 
Rules”), the Debtors are authorized to assume, assign or reject certain executory contracts and 
unexpired leases.  Absent certain exceptions, the Debtors’ rejection of an executory contract or an 
unexpired lease is generally treated  as prepetition breach, which entitles the contract counterparty to 
file a general unsecured claim against the Debtors and simultaneously relives the Debtors from their future obligations under the contract or lease.  Further, the Debtors’ assumption of an  executory 
contract or unexpired lease would generally require the Debtors to satisfy certain prepetition amounts due and owning under such contract or lease.  
 
On June 28, 2020, the Bankruptcy Court authorized the Debtors to establish procedures for the 
rejection of certain executory contracts and unexpired leases.  In accordance with these rejection 
procedures, the Bankruptcy Code and the Bankruptcy Rules the Debtors have or will reject certain 
contracts and leases (see note 17, 19 and 27).  Relatedly, th e Bankruptcy Court approved the 
Debtors’ request to extend the date by which the Debtors may assume or reject unexpired non -
residential, real property leases until December 22, 2020.  Following consent of certain lessors to further extend the deadline in o rder to finalize productive negotiations, the Debtors have moved to 
assume multiple airport leases at Miami -Dade, LAX and JFK related to the Debtors’ passenger and 
cargo businesses.  
 
Further, the Debtors have or will file motions to reject certain aircraf t and engine leases:   
 
Bankruptcy Court approval date:  Asset rejected:  
June 8, 2020  (i) 1 Boeing 767  
June 24, 2020  (i) 16 Airbus A320 -family aircraft; (ii) 2 
Airbus A350 aircraft; and (iii) 4 Boeing 787 -9 
June 28, 2020  (i) 2 Engine model V2527 -A5; and (ii) 2 
Engine model CFM56 -5B4/3  
July 29, 2020  (i) 1 Engine model CFM56 -5B3/3  
August 19, 2020  (i) 1 Boeing 767  
October 26, 2020  (i) 3 Airbus A320 -family aircraft  
October 28, 2020  
November 5, 2020  (i) 1 Airbus A319  
(i) 1 A320 -family aircraft  
193 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202013 
 
   
As of De cember 31, 2020, and as a result of these contract rejections, obligations with the lenders 
and lessors were extinguish and also the Company lost control over the related assets, which led to 
the derecognition of the assets and the liabilities associated w ith these aircraft.  See note 17, 19 and 
27.  All accounting effects were recorded on the year 2020 as Restructuring activities expenses.  
 On November 23, 2020, the Bankruptcy Court also entered order authorizing the Debtors to assume 
key commercial agreem ents with Delta Air Lines, Inc.  Relatedly, the Debtors have or will file 
motions to enter into certain aircraft lease amendment agreements which have the effect of, among 
other things, reducing the Debtors’ rental payment obligations.  On December 31, 202 0, the 
Bankruptcy Court entered an order authorizing the Debtors to enter into a lease amendment agreement with Vermillion Aviation (Two) Limited.  The agreement requires the Debtors to assume 
the amended lease through a plan of reorganization, with certai n limited exceptions.   
 
Statements and Schedules:  
 
On September 8, 2020, the Debtors filed with the Bankruptcy Court schedules and statements of 
financial affairs setting forth, among other things, the assets and liabilities of the Debtors (the 
“Statement s and Schedules”).  The Statements and Schedules are prepared according to the 
requirements of applicable bankruptcy law and are subject to further amendment or modification by 
the Debtors, for example: “Monthly Operating Report” (MOR). The Company on a mo nthly basis 
makes the presentation of these schedules and statements.  
 
Although the Debtors believe that these materials provide the information required under the 
Bankruptcy Code or orders of the Bankruptcy Court, they are nonetheless unaudited and prepar ed in 
a format different from the consolidated financial reports historically prepared by LATAM in 
accordance with IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards).  Certain of the information 
contained in the Statements and Schedules may be prepared on an unconsolidated basis.  
Accordingly, the Debtors believe that the substance and format of these materials do not allow 
meaningful comparison with their regularly publicly -disclosed consolidated financial statements. 
Moreover, the materials filed with the  Bankruptcy Court are not prepared for the purpose of 
providing a basis for an investment decision relating to the Debtors’ securities, or claims against the Debtors, or for comparison with other financial information required to be reported under applicab le 
securities law.  
 
Intercompany and Affiliate Transactions:  
 
The Debtors are authorized to continue performing certain postpetition intercompany and affiliate 
transactions in the ordinary course of business, including transactions with non -debtor affilia tes, and 
to honor obligations in connection with such transactions; provided, however, the Debtors shall not make any cash payments on account of prepetition transactions with affiliates absent permission 
from the Bankruptcy Court, including any repayments  on any prepetition loans to non -debtor 
affiliates pursuant to any such transactions.  Out of an abundance of caution, the Debtors have also 
sought and received Bankruptcy Court approval to contribute capital, capitalize intercompany debt 
and issue shares between certain debtor affiliates.  
 
 
 
 14 
 
 Debtor in Possession Financing  
 On September 19, 2020, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order authorizing the Debtors to obtain 
postpetition “debtor -in-possession financing” in the form of a multi -draw term loan facili ty in an 
aggregate principal amount of up to US$2.45 billion (See note 3.1 c)).  
 Establishment of Bar Dates.  
 On September 24, 2020, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order (the “Bar Date Order”) establishing December 18, 2020, as the general deadline (the “General Bar Date”) by which persons or entities 
who believe they hold any claims against any Debtor that arose prior to the Petition Date, as applicable to each Debtor, must have submitted written documentation of such claims (a “Proof of 
Claim”).  The Ge neral Bar Date was not applicable to governmental units, which must have 
submitted Proofs of Claims by January 5, 2021 (the “Governmental Bar Date”).  Finally, as more 
fully described in the Bar Date Order, claims with respect to rejected contracts or unex pired leases 
may be subject to a deadline later than the General Bar Date (the “Rejection Bar Date” and, together 
with the General Bar Date and the Governmental Bar Date, the “Bar Dates’).  Any person or entity 
that fails to timely file its Proof of Claim by the applicable Bar Date will be forever barred from 
asserting their claim and will not receive any distributions made as part of the ultimate plan of 
reorganization.  Notice of the Bar Dates, as well as instructions on how to file Proof of Claims, 
were sent to all known creditors and published in various newspapers in the United States and South 
America.  
 
On December 17, 2020, the Court entered an order establishing a supplemental bar date of February 
5, 2021 (the “Supplemental Bar Date”), for certain no n-U.S. claimants not otherwise subject to the 
General Bar Date. The Supplemental Bar Date applies only to those entities and individuals 
specifically identified in the court order.  Any person or entity that fails to timely file its Proof of 
Claim by the S upplemental Bar Date will be forever barred from asserting their claim and will not 
receive any distributions made as part of the ultimate plan of reorganization.  
 
Following the close of the General Bar Date and the Supplemental Bar Date, the Debtors have continued the process of reconciling approximately 6,000 submitted claims and have developed 
procedures to streamline the claims process.  The Company has already filed objections to a number 
of claims and anticipates continuing to do so in the coming mont hs.  Although many objections 
have been entered on an omnibus basis, some claims disputes will likely require individualized adjudication by the Bankruptcy Court.  Further, the Company has also filed a motion requesting approval of alternative dispute reso lution procedures to resolves certain claims disputes outside of 
the Bankruptcy Court.  Given the need to reconcile claims against the Company’s books and records and to resolve claims disputes both in and outside of the Bankruptcy Court, the Company is 
not yet able to make a reliable estimate of the final claims pool, both in terms of the final number of 
claims and the value of such claims.  
 
2.2. Basis of Consolidation  
 (a) Subsidiaries  
 Subsidiaries are all the entities (including special -purpose entities) over which the Company has the 
power to control the financial and operating policies, which are generally accompanied by a holding 
of more than half of the vo ting rights. In evaluating whether the Company controls another entity, 
194 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202015 
 
 the existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible at the 
date of the consolidated financial statements are considered. The subsidiaries are consolidated from 
the date on which control is passed to the Company and they are excluded from the consolidation on the date they cease to be so controlled. The results and flows are incorporated from the date of acquisition.  
 Balances, transactions a nd unrealized gains on transactions between the Company’s entities are 
eliminated. Unrealized losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment loss of the asset transferred. When necessary in order to ensure uniformity w ith the 
policies adopted by the Company, the accounting policies of the subsidiaries are modified.  
 To account for and identify the financial information revealed when carrying out a business 
combination, such as the acquisition of an entity by the Company , is apply the acquisition method 
provided for in IFRS 3: Business combination.  
 (b) Transactions with non -controlling interests  
 The Group applies the policy of considering transactions with non -controlling interests, when not 
related to loss of control, as equity transactions without an effect on income.  
 (c) Sales of subsidiaries  
 When a subsidiary is sold and a percentage of participation is not retained, the Company 
derecognizes assets and liabilities of the subsidiary, the non -controlling and other co mponents of 
equity related to the subsidiary. Any gain or loss resulting from the loss of control is recognized in the consolidated income statement in Other gains (losses).  
 
If LATAM Airlines Group S.A. and Subsidiaries retain an ownership of participatio n in the sold 
subsidiary, and does not represent control, this is recognized at fair value on the date that control is 
lost, the amounts previously recognized in Other comprehensive income are accounted as if the 
Company had disposed directly from the asse ts and related liabilities, which can cause these 
amounts are reclassified to profit or loss. The percentage retained valued at fair value is 
subsequently accounted using the equity method.  
 (d) Investees or associates  
 
Investees or associates are all enti ties over which LATAM Airlines Group S.A. and Subsidiaries 
have significant influence but have no control. This usually arises from holding between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Investments in associates are booked using the equity method and are 
initially recognized at their cost.  
 
2.3. Foreign currency transactions  
 
(a) Presentation and functional currencies  
  
The items included in the financial sta tements of each of the entities of LATAM Airlines Group 
S.A. and Subsidiaries are valued using the currency of the main economic environment in which the entity operates (the functional currency). The functional currency of LATAM Airlines Group S.A. 16 
 
 is the  United States dollar which is also the presentation currency of the consolidated financial 
statements of LATAM Airlines Group S.A. and Subsidiaries.  
 (b) Transactions and balances 
 
Foreign currency transactions are translated to the functional currency us ing the exchange rates on 
the transaction dates. Foreign currency gains and losses resulting from the liquidation of these transactions and from the translation at the closing exchange rates of the monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign cur rency are shown in the consolidated statement of income by 
function except when deferred in Other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow hedges.  
 (c) Adjustment due to hyperinflation  
 After July 1, 2018, the Argentine economy was considered, for purp oses of IFRS, hyperinflationary. 
The financial statements of the subsidiaries whose functional currency is the Argentine Peso have 
been restated.  
 The non -monetary items of the statement of financial position as well as the income statement, 
comprehensive incomes and cash flows of the group's entities, whose functional currency 
corresponds to a hyperinflationary economy, are adjusted for inflation and re -expressed in 
accordance with the variation of the consumer price index ("CPI"), at each presentation dat e of its 
financial statements. The re -expression of non -monetary items is made from the date of initial 
recognition in the statements of financial position and considering that the financial statements are 
prepared under the historical cost criterion.  
 Net losses or gains arising from the re -expression of non -monetary items and income and costs are 
recognized in the consolidated income statement under "Result of indexation units".  
Net gains and losses on the re -expression of opening balances due to the init ial application of IAS 
29 are recognized in the consolidated retained earnings.  
 Re-expression due to hyperinflation will be recorded until the period or exercise in which the 
economy of the entity ceases to be considered as a hyperinflationary economy, at  that time, the 
adjustments made by hyperinflation will be part of the cost of non -monetary assets and liabilities. 
 
The comparative amounts in the Consolidated financial statements of the Company are presented in 
a stable currency and are not adjusted for  subsequent changes in the price level or exchange rates.  
 
(d) Group entities  
 The results and the financial situation of the Group's entities, whose functional currency is different 
from the presentation currency of the consolidated financial statements, of LATAM Airlines Group 
S.A., which does not correspond to the currency of a hyperinflationary economy, are converted into 
the currency of presentation as follows:  
 (i) Assets and liabilities of each consolidated statement of financial position presented a re 
translated at the closing exchange rate on the consolidated statement of financial position date;  
 
(ii) The revenues and expenses of each income statement account are translated at the exchange 
rates prevailing on the transaction dates, and  
195 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202017 
 
 (iii) All the resultant exchange differences by conversion are shown as a separate component in 
other comprehensive income, within "Gain (losses) from exchange rate difference, before tax".  
 
For those subsidiaries of the group whose functional currency is different f rom the presentation 
currency and, moreover, corresponds to the currency of a hyperinflationary economy; its restated 
results, cash flow and financial situation are converted to the presentation currency at the closing 
exchange rate on the date of the cons olidated financial statements.  
 The exchange rates used correspond to those fixed in the country where the subsidiary is located, whose functional currency is different to the U.S. dollar.  
    
Adjustments to the Goodwill and fair value arising from the acq uisition of a foreign entity are 
treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and are translated at the closing exchange rate or period informed, restated when the currency came from the functional entity of the foreign entity 
corresponds to tha t of a hyperinflationary economy, the adjustments for the restatement of goodwill 
are recognized in the consolidated equity. 
 
2.4. Property, plant and equipment  
 
The land of LATAM Airlines Group S.A. and Subsidiaries, are recognized at cost less any 
accumulated impairment loss. The rest of the Properties, plants and equipment are recorded, both in 
their initial recognition and in their subsequent measureme nt, at their historical cost, restated for 
inflation when appropriate, less the corresponding depreciation and any loss due to deterioration.  
 
The amounts of advances paid to the aircraft manufacturers are activated by the Company under 
Construction in pro gress until they are received. 
Subsequent costs (replacement of components, improvements, extensions, etc.) are included in the value of the initial asset or are recognized as a separate asset, only when it is probable that the future economic benefits ass ociated with the elements of property, plant and equipment, they will 
flow to the Company and the cost of the item can be determined reliably. The value of the replaced component is written off. The rest of the repairs and maintenance are charged to the re sult of the 
year in which they are incurred. 
The depreciation of the properties, plants and equipment is calculated using the linear method over 
their estimated technical useful lives; except in the case of certain technical components which are 
depreciate d on the basis of cycles and hours flown. This charge is recognized in the captions "Cost 
of sale" and "Administrative expenses".  
The residual value and the useful life of the assets are reviewed and adjusted, if necessary, once a 
year.   
When the value of an asset exceeds its estimated recoverable amount, its value is immediately 
reduced to its recoverable amount.  
Losses and gains from the sale of property, plant and equipment are calculated by comparing the 
consideration with the book value and are include d in the consolidated statement of income.  
 18 
 
 2.5. Intangible assets other than goodwill  
(a) Airport slots and Loyalty program  
 Airport slots and the L oyalty program correspond to intangible assets with indefinite useful lives 
and are annually tested for impairment as an integral part of the CGU Air Transport.  
 
Airport Slots correspond to an administrative authorization to carry out operations of arrival  and 
departure of aircraft, at a specific airport, within a certain period of time.  
 The Loyalty program corresponds to the system of accumulation and exchange of points that is part 
of TAM Linhas Aereas S.A.  
 The airport slots and Loyalty program were rec ognized at fair value under IFRS 3, as a consequence 
of the business combination with TAM S.A. and Subsidiaries.  
 (b) Computer software  
 Licenses for computer software acquired are capitalized on the basis of the costs incurred in acquiring them and preparing  them for using the specific software. These costs are amortized over 
their estimated useful lives, for which the Company has been defined useful lives between 3 and 10 years.  
 Expenses related to the development or maintenance of computer software which do not qualify for 
capitalization, are shown as an expense when incurred. The personnel costs and others cost directly 
related to the production of unique and identifiable computer software controlled by the Company, 
are shown as intangible Assets others t han Goodwill when they have met all the criteria for 
capitalization.  
 (c) Brands    
 The Brands were acquired in the business combination with TAM S.A. and Subsidiaries and, 
recognized at fair value under IFRS 3. The Company has defined a useful life of fiv e years, period 
in which the value of the brands will be amortized.  
2.6. Goodwill  
 
Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition cost over the fair value of the Company’s 
participation in the net identifiable assets of the subsidiary or associate  on the acquisition date. 
Goodwill related to acquisition of subsidiaries is not amortized but tested for impairment annually or each time that there is evidence of impairment. Gains and losses on the sale of an entity include 
the book amount of the goodwill related to the entity sold.  
 2.7. Borrowing costs  
 Interest costs incurred for the constru ction of any qualified asset are capitalized over the time 
necessary for completing and preparing the asset for its intended use. Other interest costs are 
recognized in the consolidated statement of income when accrued.  
 
196 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202019 
 
 2.8. Losses for impairment of non -financial assets  
 
Goodwill and intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortization and 
are tested annual ly for impairment, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that they might be impaired. Assets subject to amortization are tested for impairment losses 
whenever any event or change in circumstances indicates that the carrying amou nt may not be 
recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized for the excess of the carrying amount of the asset over its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the fair value of an asset less the costs for 
sale or the value in use, whichever is  great er. For the purpose of evaluating impairment losses, 
assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are largely independent cash inflows (cash 
generating unit. Non-financial assets, other than goodwill, that would have suffered an impairment 
loss a re reviewed if there are indicators of reversal of losses.  Impairment losses are recognized in 
the consolidated statement of income under "Other gains (losses)".  
 
2.9. Financial assets 
 
The Company classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value (either through 
other comprehensive income, or through gains or losses), and at amortized cost. The classification 
depends on the business model of t he entity to manage the financial assets and the contractual terms 
of the cash flows.  
 The group reclassifies debt investments when, and only when, it changes its business model to 
manage those assets.  
 In the initial recognition, the Company measures a fi nancial asset at its fair value plus, in the case of 
a financial asset classified at amortized cost, the transaction costs that are directly attributable to the 
acquisition of the financial asset. Transaction costs of financial assets accounted for at fair  value 
through profit or loss are recorded as expenses in the income statement.  
 
(a) Debt instruments  
 
The subsequent measurement of debt instruments depends on the group's business model to manage 
the asset and cash flow characteristics of the asset. The Company has two measurement categories 
in which the group classifies its debt instruments:  
 
Amortized cost: the assets held for the collection of contractual cash flows where those cash flows represent only payments of principal and interest are measured a t amortized cost. A gain or loss on 
a debt investment that is subsequently measured at amortized cost and is not part of a hedging relationship is recognized in income when the asset is derecognized or impaired. Interest income 
from these financial assets is included in financial income using the effective interest rate method.  
 
Fair value through profit or loss: assets that do not meet the criteria of amortized cost or FVOCI are 
measured at fair value through profit or loss. A gain or loss on a debt invest ment that is 
subsequently measured at fair value through profit or loss and is not part of a hedging relationship is recognized in profit or loss and is presented net in the income statement within other gains / (losses) 
in the period or exercise in which it arises.  
 
  20 
 
 (b) Equity instruments  
 
Changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are recognized in 
other gains / (losses) in the statement of income as appropriate.  
 
The Company evaluates in advance the expected cred it losses associated with its debt instruments 
recorded at amortized cost. The applied impairment methodology depends on whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk.  
 
2.10. Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities  
 Derivatives are recognized, in accordance with IAS 39 for hedge accounting and IFRS 9 for 
derivatives not qualify as hedge accounting, initially at fair value on the date on which the 
derivative contract was made and are subsequently valued at their fair value. The method to 
recognize the resulting loss or gain depends on whether the derivative has been designated as a 
hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged. The Company designates certain 
derivatives as:  
 
(a) Hedge of the fair value of recognized assets (fair value hedge);  
(b) Hedge of an identified risk associated with a recognized liability or an expected                  
highly - Probable transaction (cash -flow hedge), or  
(c) Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting.  
 The Company documents, at the inception of each transaction, the relationship between the hedging 
instrument and the hedged item, as  well as its objectives for managing risk and the strategy for 
carrying out various hedging transactions. The Company also documents its assessment, both at the 
beginning and on an ongoing basis, as to whether the derivatives used in the hedging transactio ns 
are highly effective in offsetting the changes in the fair value or cash flows of the items being hedged.  
 The total fair value of the hedging derivatives is booked as Other non -current financial asset or 
liability if the remaining maturity of the item hedged is over 12 months, and as an other current 
financial asset or liability if the remaining term of the item hedged is less than 12 months.  
Derivatives not booked as hedges are classified as Other financial assets or liabilities.  
 (a)  Fair value hedge s 
 
Changes in the fair value of designated derivatives that qualify as fair value hedges are shown in the 
consolidated statement of income, together with any change in the fair value of the asset or liability 
hedged that is attributable to the risk being h edged.  
 
(b) Cash flow hedges  
 
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as 
cash flow hedges is shown in the statement of other comprehensive income. The loss or gain 
relating to the ineffective portio n is recognized immediately in the consolidated statement of 
income under other gains (losses). Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss 
in the periods or exercise when the hedged item affects profit or loss.  
 
197 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202021 
 
 In case of variable in terest -rate hedges, the amounts recognized in the statement of other 
comprehensive income are reclassified to results within financial costs at the same time the 
associated debts accrue interest.  
 
For fuel price hedges, the amounts shown in the statement o f other comprehensive income are 
reclassified to results under the line item Cost of sales to the extent that the fuel subject to the hedge is used.  
 For foreign currency hedges, the amounts recognized in the statement of other comprehensive income are rec lassified to income as deferred revenue resulting from the use of points, are 
recognized as Income.  
 
When hedging instrument mature, is sold or fails to meet the requirements to be accounted for as 
hedges, any gain or loss accumulated in the statement of O ther comprehensive income until that 
moment, remains in the statement of other comprehensive income and is reclassified to the 
consolidated statement of income when the hedged transaction is finally recognized. When it is 
expected that the hedged transacti on is no longer going to occur, the gain or loss accumulated in the 
statement of other comprehensive income is taken immediately to the consolidated statement of income as “Other gains (losses)”.  
 
(c) Derivatives not booked as a hedge  
 The changes in fair value of any derivative instrument that is not booked as a hedge are shown 
immediately in the consolidated statement of income in “Other gains (losses)”.  
 
2.11. Inventories  
 
Inventories, are shown at the lower of cost and their net realizable value . The cost is determined on 
the basis of the weighted average cost method (WAC). The net realizable value is the estimated 
selling price in the normal course of business, less es timated costs necessary to make the sale.  
 
2.12.  Trade and other accounts receivable  
 Commercial accounts receivable are initially recognized at t heir fair value and subsequently at their 
amortized cost in accordance with the effective rate method, less the provision for impairment according to the model of the expected credit losses. The Company applies the simplified approach permitted by IFRS 9, which requires that expected lifetime losses be recognized upon initial 
recognition of accounts receivable.  
 
In the event that the Company transfers its rights to any financial asset (generally accounts 
receivable) to a third party in exchange for a cash p ayment, the Company evaluates whether all 
risks and rewards have been transferred, in which case the account receivable is derecognized.  
 The existence of significant financial difficulties on the part of the debtor, the probability that the 
debtor goes ba nkrupt or financial reorganization are considered indicators of a significant increase 
in credit risk.  
 22 
 
 The carrying amount of the asset is reduced as the provision account is used and the loss is 
recognized in the consolidated income statement under "Cost  of sales". When an account receivable 
is written off, it is regularized against the provision account for the account receivable.  
 2.13. Cash and cash equivalents  
 Cash and cash equivalents include cash and bank balances, time deposits in financial institutions, 
and other short -term and highly liquid investments.  
 
2.14. Capital  
 The common shares are classified as net equity.  
 Incremental costs directly attributable to the issuance of new shares or options are shown in net 
equity as a deduction from the proceeds received from the placement of shares.  
 
2.15. Trade and other accou nts payables  
 Trade payables and other accounts payable are initially recognized at fair value and subsequently at amortized cost.  
 2.16. Interest -bearing loans  
 Financial liabilities are shown initially at their fair value, net of the costs incurred in the transaction. 
Later, these financial liabilities are valued at their amortized cost; any difference between the 
proceeds obtained (net of the necessary arrangement| costs) and the repayment value, is shown in 
the consolidated statement of income during the term of the debt, according to the effective int erest 
rate method.  
 
Financial liabilities are classified in current and non -current liabilities according to the contractual 
payment dates of the nominal principal. 
 
2.17. Current and deferred taxes  
 The tax expense for the period comprises income and deferred taxes.  
 
The current income tax expense is calculated based on tax laws in enacted the date of statement of 
financial position, in the countries in whi ch the subsidiaries and associates operate and generate 
taxable income.  
 
Deferred taxes are recognized, on the temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets 
and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statement s. However, 
deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from the initial recognition of an assets or a 
liability in transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction does not 
affect the accounting or the taxable pr ofit or loss. Deferred tax is determined using the tax rates (and 
laws) that have been enacted or substantially enacted at the date of the consolidated statements of financial position, and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is reali zed or the 
deferred tax liability discharged.  
 
198 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202023 
 
 Deferred tax assets are recognized only to the extent it is probable that the future taxable profit will 
be available against which the temporary differences can be utilized.  
 The tax (current and deferred) is  recognized in statement of income by function, unless it relates to 
an item recognized in other comprehensive income, directly in equity. In this case the tax is also 
recognized in other comprehensive income or, directly in the statement of income by func tion, 
respectively . 
 
2.18. Employee benefits  
  
(a)  Personnel vacations  
 
The Company recognizes the expense for personnel vacations on an accrual basis.   
 
(b)  Share -based compensation  
 
The compensation plans implemented based on the shares of the Company are recognized in the 
consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS 2: Share -based payments, for plans 
based on the granting of options, the effect of fair value is recorded in equity with a charge to 
remuneration in a linear manner between the date of grant of said options and the date on which they become irrevocable, for the plans considered as cash settled award the fair value, updated as of 
the clos ing date of each reporting period or exercise, is recorded as a liability with charge to 
remuneration.  
 
(c)        Post -employment and other long -term benefits  
 
Provisions are made for these obligations by applying the method of the projected unit credit 
method, and considering estimates of future permanence, mortality rates and future wage increases 
determined on the basis of actuarial calculations. The discount rates are determined by reference to 
market interest -rate curves. Actuarial gains or losses are  shown in other comprehensive income.  
 
(d)  Incentives  
 The Company has an annual incentives plan for its personnel for compliance with objectives and 
individual contribution to the results. The incentives eventually granted consist of a given number 
or po rtion of monthly remuneration and the provision is made on the basis of the amount estimated 
for distribution.   
 (e)  Termination benefits  
 The group recognizes termination benefits at the earlier of the following dates: (a) when the group 
terminates labo ral relation; and (b) when the entity recognizes costs for a restructuring that is within 
the scope of IAS 37 and involves the payment of terminations benefits.  
 
2.19. Provisions  
 Provisions are recognized when:  
 
(i) The Company has a present legal or implicit obligation as a result of past events;  24 
 
 (ii) It is probable that payment is going to be necessary to settle an obligation; and  
 
(iii) The amount has been reliably est imated .  
 
2.20. Revenue from contracts with customers  
 (a) Transportation of passengers and cargo  
 The Company recognizes the sale for the transportation service  as a deferred income liability, 
which is recognized as income when the transportation service has been lent or expired. In the case 
of air transport services sold by the Company and that will be made by other airlines, the liability is 
reduced when they a re remitted to said airlines. The Company periodically reviews whether it is 
necessary to make an adjustment to deferred income liabilities, mainly related to returns, changes, among others.  
 
Compensations granted to clients for changes in the levels of se rvices or billing of additional 
services such as additional baggage, change of seat, among others, are considered modifications of the initial contract, therefore, they are deferred until the corresponding service is provided.  
 
(b) Expiration of air ticket s 
 The Company estimates in a monthly basis the probability of expiration of air tickets, with refund 
clauses, based on the history of use of the same. Air tickets without refund clause are expired on the 
date of the flight in case the passenger does not s how up.  
 (c) Costs associated with the contract  
 
The costs related to the sale of air tickets are activated and deferred until the moment of providing 
the corresponding service. These assets are included under the heading "Other current non -financial 
asset s" in the Consolidated Classified Statement of Financial Position.  
 (d) Frequent passenger program  
 The Company maintains the following loyalty programs: LATAM Pass and LATAM Pass Brasil, 
whose objective is building customer loyalty through the delivery of  miles or points.  
 
These programs give their frequent passengers the possibility of earning LATAMPASS’s miles or 
points, which grant the right to a selection of both air and non -air awards. Additionally, the 
Company sells the LATAMPASS miles or points to f inancial and non -financial partners through 
commercial alliances to award miles or points to their customers.  
 
To reflect the miles and points earned, the loyalty program mainly includes two types of 
transactions that are considered revenue arrangements wi th multiple performance obligations: (1) 
Passenger Ticket Sales Earning miles or points (2) miles or points sold to financial and non -
financial partner  
 (1) Passenger Ticket Sales Earning Miles or Points.  
In this case, the miles or points are awarded to c ustomers at the time that the company performs the 
flight.  
199 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202025 
 
 To value the miles or points earned with travel, we consider the quantitative value a passenger 
receives by redeeming miles for a ticket rather than paying cash, which is referred to as Equivalent 
Ticket Value ("ETV"). Our estimate of ETV is adjusted for miles and point that are not likely to be 
redeemed ("breakage").  
 
The balance of miles and point that are pending to redeem are include on deferred revenue.  
 (2) Miles sold to financial and non -financial partner  
 
To value the miles or points earns through financial and non -financial partners,the performance 
obligations with the client are estimated separately. To calculate these performance obligations, different components that add value in the com mercial contract must be considered, such as 
marketing, advertising and other benefits, and finally the value of the points awarded to customers based on our ETV. The value of each of these components is finally allocated in proportion to their 
relative pr ices. The performance obligations associated with the valuation of the points or miles 
earned become part of the Deferred Revenue, and the remaining performance obligations, are 
recorded as revenue when the  miles or points are delivered to the client.  
 When the miles and points are exchanged for products and services other than the services provided 
by the Company, the income is recognized immediately, when the exchange is made for air tickets 
of any airline of LATAM Airlines Group S.A. and subsidiaries, t he income is deferred until the air 
transport service is provided.  
 
The miles and points that the Company estimates will not be exchanged are recognized in the 
results based on the consumption pattern of the miles or points effectively exchanged by custom ers. 
The Company uses statistical models to estimate the probability of exchange, which is based on 
historical patterns and projections.  
 (e) Dividend income  
 Dividend income is recognized when the right to receive payment is established.  
 
2.21. Leases  
 The Company recognizes contracts that meet the definition of a lease, as a right of use asset and a 
lease liability on the date when the underlying asset is available for use.  
 
Assets for right of use are measured at cost including the following:  
 
- The amount of the initial measurement of the lease liability;  
- Lease payment made at or before commencement date;  
- Initial direct costs, and 
- Restoration costs.  
 
The assets by right of use  are recognized in the statement of financial position in Properties, plants 
and equipment.  
 
  26 
 
 Lease liabilities include the net present value of the following payments:  
 
- Fixed payments including in substance fixed payment.  
- Variable lease payments that dep end on an index or a rate;  
- The exercise price of a purchase options, if is reasonably certain to exercise that option.  
 The Company determines the present value of the lease payments using the implicit rates for the 
aircraft leasing contracts and for the r est of the underlying assets, uses the incremental borrowing 
rate. 
 Lease liabilities are recognized in the statement of financial position under Other financial 
liabilities, current or non -current.  
 Interest accrued on financial liabilities is recognized  in the consolidated statement of income in 
"Financial costs".  
 Payments associated with short -term leases without purchase options and leases of low -value assets 
are recognized on a straight -line basis in profit or loss at the time of accrual. Those paym ents are 
presented in cash flows use in operation activities.  
 
The Company analyzes the financing agreements of aircrafts, mainly considering characteristics 
such as:  
 (a) that the Company initially acquired the aircraft or took an important part in the p rocess of direct 
acquisition with the manufacturers.  
  (b) Due to the contractual conditions, it is virtually certain that the Company will execute the 
purchase option of the aircraft at the end of the lease term.  
 
Since these financing agreements are “su bstantially purchases” and not leases, the related liability 
is considered as a financial debt classified under to IFRS 9 and continue to be presented within the 
“Other financial liabilities” described in Note 19. On the other hand, the aircraft are presen ted in 
Property, Plants and Equipment, as described in Note 17, as “own aircraft”.  
 
The Group qualifies as sale and lease transactions, operations that lead to a sale according to IFRS 
15. More specifically, a sale is considered as such if there is no opti on to purchase the goods at the 
end of the lease term.  
 If the sale by the seller -lessee is classified as a sale in accordance with IFRS 15, the underlying 
asset is derecognized, and a right -of-use asset equal to the portion retained proportionally of the 
amount of the asset is recognized.  
 
If the sale by the seller -lessee is not classified as a sale in accordance with IFRS 15, the transferred 
assets are kept in the financial statements and a financial liability equal to the sale price is recognized (receiv ed from the buyer -lessor).  
 The Company has applied the practical solution allowed by IFRS 16 for those contracts that meet 
the established requirements and that allows a lessee to choose not to evaluate if the concessions that it obtains derived from COVI D-19 are a modification of the lease.  
200 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202027 
 
 2.22. Non-current assets or disposal groups classified as held for sale  
 
Non-current assets (or disposal groups) classified as assets held for sale are shown at the lesser of 
their book value and the fair value less costs to sell.  
 2.23. Maintenance 
 The costs incurred for scheduled heavy maintenance of the aircraft’s fuselage and engines are 
capitalized and depreciated until the next maintenance. The depreciation rate is determined on technical grounds, according to the use of the aircraft expres sed in terms of cycles and flight hours.  
 In case of aircraft include in property, plant and equipment, these maintenance cost are capitalized 
as Property, plant and equipment, while in the case of aircraft on right of use, a liability is accrued 
based on the use of the main components is recognized, since a contractual obligation with the 
lessor to return the aircraft on agreed terms of maintenance levels exists. These are recognized as 
Cost of sales.  
 Additionally, some contracts that comply with the defi nition of lease establish the obligation of the 
lessee to make deposits to the lessor as a guarantee of compliance with maintenance and return 
conditions. These deposits, often called maintenance reserves, accumulate until a major 
maintenance is performed, once made, the recovery is requested to the lessor. At the end of the 
contract period, there is comparison between the reserves that have been paid and required return conditions, and compensation between the parties are made if applicable.  
 The unschedul ed maintenance of aircraft and engines, as well as minor maintenance, are charged to 
results as incurred.  
 
2.24. Environmental costs  
 
Disbursements related to env ironmental protection are charged to results when incurred.  
 
 
NOTE 3 - FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT  
 
3.1. Financial risk factors 
 
The Comp any is exposed to different financial risks: (a) market risk, (b) credit risk, and (c) 
liquidity risk. The program overall risk management of the Company aims to minimize the adverse effects of financial risks affecting the company.  
 
(a)  Market risk  
 Due to the nature of its operations, the Company is exposed to market factors such as: (i) fuel -price 
risk, (ii) exchange -rate risk (FX), and (iii) interest -rate risk.  
 The Company has developed policies and procedures for managing market risk, which aim to 
identify, quantify, monitor and mitigate the adverse effects of changes in market factors mentioned 
above.  28 
 
 For the foregoing, Management monitors the evolution of price levels, exchange rates and interest rates, quantifies exposures and their risk, and dev elops and executes hedging strategies.  
 
(i) Fuel-price risk:  
 
Exposure:  
 For the execution of its operations the Company purchases a fuel called Jet Fuel grade 54 USGC, 
which is subject to the fluctuations of international fuel prices.  
 
Mitigation:  
 To hedge t he risk exposure fuel, the Company operates with derivative instruments (swaps and 
options) whose underlying assets may be different from Jet Fuel, being possible use West Texas 
Intermediate (“WTI”) crude, Brent (“BRENT”) crude and distillate Heating Oil ( “HO”), which have 
a high correlation with Jet Fuel and greater liquidity.  
 
Fuel Hedging Results:  
 
During the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company recognized losses of US$ 1 4.3 million 
(negative) for fuel hedge net of premiums in the costs of sale for the year. During the same year of 
2019, the Company recognized losses of US$ 23.1 million for the same concept.  
 As of the end of March 31, the Company has determined that the highly probable expected 
transactions, which made up the hedged item, will no lo nger occur in the formally established 
magnitudes, therefore it has stopped recognizing these contracts under the accounting of hedge 
recognizing for the year ended December 31,2020 a loss of US$ 50.8 million in the line in Other 
gains (losses) of the inco me statement, as a reclassification effect from other reserves from the 
statement of comprehensive income and a loss of US$ 30.8 million corresponding to the premiums 
associated with these contracts.  On November 2020, the new fuel derivatives taken by the Company 
were classified as hedge accounting.  
As of December 31, 2020  the market value of the fuel positions was US$ 1.3 million (positive). At 
the end of December 2019, this market value was US$ 48.5 million (positive).  
 The following tables show the level  of hedge for different periods:  
Positions as of  December 31, 2020 (*)     Maturities     
   Q121   Q221   Q321   Q421   Total   
Percentage of coverage over the expected volume of consumption    3.0%   2.8%   2.6%   2.6%   
2.7%   
 
(*)   The percentage shown in the table considers all the hedging instruments (swaps and options).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
201 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202029 
 
 Positions as of  December 31, 2019 (*)   Maturities    
   Q120   Q220   Q320   Q420   Total  
           
Percentage of coverage over the expected volume of consumption   65%  61%  20%  19%  41% 
 
(*)   The volume shown in the table considers all the hedging instruments (swaps and options).  
 Sensitivity analysis  
 
A drop in fuel price positively affects the Company through a reduction in costs. However, also 
negatively affects contracted posit ions as these are acquired to protect the Company against the risk 
of a rise in price. The policy therefore is to maintain a hedge -free percentage in order to be 
competitive in the event of a drop in price.  
 
The current hedge positions they are booked as c ash flow hedge contracts, so a variation in the fuel 
price has an impact on the Company’s net equity.  
 
The following tables show the sensitization of financial instruments according to reasonable changes in the price of fuel and their effect on equity.  
 The calculations were made considering a parallel movement of US$ 5 per barrel in the underlying 
reference price curve at the end of December 2019 and 2020. The projection period was defined until the end of the last fuel hedging contract in force, being the  last business day of the fourth 
quarter of the year 2021.  
 
  Positions as of  December 31, 2020  
 Positions as of December 31, 2019  
Benchmark price  
 effect on Statement of Income  
 effect on Equity  
(US$ per barrel)  
 (MUS$)  
 (MUS$)  
      +5  
 +0.6 
  +15.4 
 -5  
  -0.6 
  - 34.5 
 Given the fuel hedging structure during 2020, which considers a portion free of hedges, a vertical 
drop of 5 dollars in the JET reference price (considered as the monthly daily average), would have 
meant an impact of approximat ely US$ 160.5 million lower fuel cost. For the same period, a 
vertical rise of 5 dollars in the JET reference price (considered as the monthly daily average), would have meant an approximate impact of US$ 135.0 million in higher fuel costs.  
 
(ii) Foreign e xchange rate risk: 
 
Exposure:  
 
The functional and presentation currency of the financial statements of the Parent Company is the 
US dollar, so that the risk of the Transactional and Conversion exchange rate arises mainly from the 
Company's business, strate gic and accounting operating activities that are expressed in a monetary 
unit other than the functional currency.  
 
The subsidiaries of LATAM are also exposed to foreign exchange risk whose impact affects the 
Company's Consolidated Income.  30 
 
 The largest opera tional exposure to LATAM's exchange risk comes from the concentration of 
businesses in Brazil, which are mostly denominated in Brazilian Real (BRL), and are actively 
managed by the company.  
 
At a lower concentration, the Company is also exposed to the fluc tuation of other currencies, such 
as: Euro, Pound sterling, Australian dollar, Colombian peso, Chilean peso, Argentine peso, 
Paraguayan Guarani, Mexican peso, Peruvian Sol and New Zealand dollar.  
 
Mitigation : 
 
The Company mitigates currency risk exposures by contracting derivative instruments or through 
natural hedges or execution of internal operations.  
 
Exchange Rate Hedging Results (FX) : 
 
With the objective of reducing exposure to the exchange rate risk in the operational cash flows of 2020, and securing  the operating margin, LATAM makes hedges using FX derivatives.  
 
As of December 31, 2020, the Company did not maintain  FX derivatives. At the end of December 
2019, this market value was MUS$ 0.01 (negative). 
 
During the year ended December 31 , 2020,  the Co mpany recognized gains of US$ 3.2 million for 
FX coverage net of premiums. During the same period of 2019, the Company recognized gains of   
US$ 1.9 million for FX hedging net of premiums.  
As of December 31, 2020, the Company had no current FX derivatives for BRL. At the end of 
December 2019, the Company maintain current FX derivatives for BRL for MUS$ 15.  
 
During 2019 the company contracted FX derivatives recognized in results amounts to USS$ 6.2 million (negative) net of premiums. As of December 31, 2020,  the Company does not hold FX 
derivatives that are not under hedge accounting.  
 
Sensitivity analysis: 
 
A depreciation of the R$/US$ exchange rate, negatively affects the Company's operating cash 
flows, however, also positively affects the value of the posi tions of derivatives contracted.  
 
FX derivatives are recorded as cash flow hedge contracts; therefore, a variation in the exchange rate has an impact on the market value of the derivatives, the changes of which affect the Company's net 
equity.  
 
The followi ng table shows the sensitization of FX derivative instruments according to reasonable 
changes in the exchange rate and its effect on equity. The Company did not maintain FX derivatives 
in force for BRL as of December 31, 2020:  
 
Appreciation (depreciation)( *)  Effect at December 31 , 2020    Effect at D ecember 31, 2019  
of R$   MUS$   MUS$  
     
      
-10% 
 -  -0.6 
+10%  
 -   +1.1 
 (*) Appreciation (depreciation) of US$ regard to the covered currencies.  
202 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202031 
 
 During 2017 and 2019, the Company contracted swap curr ency derivatives for debt coverage issued 
the same years by notionals UF 8.7 million and UF 5.0 million, respectively. As of December 31, 
2020 Company does not has currency hedge swap. At the end of December 2019, this market value 
was MUS$ 22.7 (negative) . 
In the case of TAM S.A, whose functional currency is the Brazilian real, a large part of its liabilities is expressed in US dollars. Therefore, when converting financial assets and liabilities, from dollar to 
real, they have an impact on the result of TA M S.A., which is consolidated in the Company's 
Income Statement.  
In order to reduce the impact on the Company's result caused by appreciations or depreciations of   
R $ / US $, the Company has executed internal operations to reduce the net exposure in US $ for 
TAM S.A.  
 
The following table shows the variation of financial performance to appreciate or depreciate 10% 
exchange rate R$/US$:  
Appreciation 
(depreciation)(*)   Effect at December 31 , 2020   
Effect at December , 2019  
of R$/US$(*)   MUS$   MUS$  
     
      
-10% 
 +10.9   +9.5 
+10%  
 - 10.9   -9.5 
    
 (*) Appreciation (depreciation) of US$ regard to the covered currencies.  
 Effects of exchange rate derivatives in the Financial Statements  
The profit or losses caused by changes in the fair value of hed ging instruments are segregated 
between intrinsic value and temporary value. The intrinsic value is the actual percentage of cash flow covered, initially shown in equity and later transferred to income, while the hedge transaction 
is recorded in income. Th e temporary value corresponds to the ineffective portion of cash flow 
hedge which is recognized in the financial results of the Company (Note 19).  
 
Due to the functional currency of TAM S.A. and Subsidiaries is the Brazilian real, the Company presents the effects of the exchange rate fluctuations in Other comprehensive income by converting 
the Statement of financial position and Income statement of TAM S.A. and Subsidiaries from their functional currency to the U.S. dollar, which is the presentation currenc y of the consolidated 
financial statement of LATAM Airlines Group S.A. and Subsidiaries. The Goodwill generated in 
the Business combination is recognized as an asset of TAM S.A. and Subsidiaries in Brazilian real 
whose conversion to U.S. dollar also produc es effects in other comprehensive income.  
 
The following table shows the change in Other comprehensive income recognized in Total equity in 
the case of appreciate or depreciate 10% the exchange rate R$/US$:  
      Appreciation (depreciation)    Effect at D ecember 31, 2020  
 Effect at December 31, 2019  
of R$/US$  
  MUS$  
 MUS$  
     
  
      
-10% 
  +191.53  
 +402.48  
+10%  
  -156.71  
 -329.29  32 
 
 (iii) Interest -rate risk:  
Exposure:  
 
The Company is exposed to fluctuations in interest rates affecting the markets future cash flows of 
the assets, and current and future financial liabilities.  
 
The Company is exposed in one portion to the variations of London Inter -Bank Offer Rate 
(“LIBOR”) and other interest rates of less relevance are Brazilian Interbank Deposit Cer tificate 
("IDC").  
 Mitigation : 
 
At the end of December 2020, the Company did not have current interest rate derivative positions. 
Currently a 4 2% (62% at December 31, 2019) of the debt is fixed to fluctuations in interest rate.  
 
Rate Hedging Results : 
 
As of December 31, 2020, the Company did not hold current interest rate derivative positions. At 
the end of December 2019, this market value was US$ 2.6 million (positive).  
 Sensitivity analysis: 
  
The following table shows the sensitivity of changes in finan cial obligations that are not hedged 
against interest -rate variations. These changes are considered reasonably possible, based on current 
market conditions each date.  
 
Increase (decrease)   Positions as of December 31, 2020  
 Positions as of December 31, 2 019 
futures curve   effect on profit or loss before tax  
 effect on profit or loss before tax  
in libor 3 months  
 (MUS$)  
 (MUS$)  
    
   
+100 basis points  
  -42.11  
  -27.60  
-100 basis points  
 +42.11  
 +27.60  
 
Much of the current rate derivatives are regi stered for as hedges of cash flow, therefore, a variation 
in the exchange rate has an impact on the market value of derivatives, whose changes impact on the Company’s net equity.  
 
At December 31, 2020 Company does not has interest rate hedge. The calculati ons were made 
increasing (decreasing) vertically 100 basis points of the three -month Libor futures curve, being 
both reasonably possible scenarios according to historical market conditions.  
 
Increase (decrease)   Positions as of December 31, 2020  
 Position s as of December 31, 2019  
futures curve   effect on equity  
 effect on equity  
in libor 3 months  
 (MUS$)  
 (MUS$)  
    
  +100  basis points  
 - 
 +13.62  
-100   basis points  
 - 
 -14.71  
     
203 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202033 
 
 The assumptions of sensitivity calculation must assume that forward  curves of interest rates do not 
necessarily reflect the real value of the compensation flows. Moreover, the structure of interest rates 
is dynamic over time.  
 
During the periods presented, the Company has no registered amounts by ineffectiveness in 
conso lidated statement of income for this kind of hedging.  
 On July 27, 2017, the Financial Conduct Authority (LIBOR regulating authority) announced its 
intention to stop asking banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR after 2021. The Federal Reserve Board and the Fed of New York then convened the Alternative Reference Rates Committee 
(ARRC), a group of private market participants, to help ensure a successful transition from LIBOR in US dollars (USD) to a more robust reference rate, their recommended a lternative, the Overnight 
Guaranteed Financing Rate (SOFR). Although the adoption of SOFR is voluntary, the impending discontinuation of LIBOR makes it essential that market participants consider moving to alternative 
rates such as SOFR and that they have appropriate alternative language in existing contracts that 
reference LIBOR.  
 
(b) Credit risk  
 
Credit risk occurs when the counterparty does not meet its obligations to the Company under a 
specific contract or financial instrument, resulting in a loss in t he market value of a financial 
instrument (only financial assets, not liabilities). Given the impact of COVID -19 on the operation, 
the client portfolio as of December 31, 2020 decreased when compared to the balance as of 
December 31, 2019 by 51%, due to a reduction in company -wide operations, mainly in passenger 
transport (travel agencies and corporate) and in the case of clients who were left with debt and that management considered risky, the corresponding measures were taken to consider their expected credit loss. For this reason, the provision at the end of December 2020 had an increase of 21.7% 
compared to the previous period.  
 
The Company is exposed to credit risk due to its operational activities and its financial activities, 
including deposits with b anks and financial institutions, investments in other types of instruments, 
exchange rate transactions and contracting derivative instruments or options.  
  To reduce the credit risk related to operational activities, the Company has implemented credit 
limits to limit the exposure of its debtors, which are permanently monitored for the LATAM 
network, when deemed necessary, agencies have been blocked for cargo and passenger businesses.  
 (i) Financial activities  
 Cash surpluses that remain after the financing of a ssets necessary for the operation are invested 
according to credit limits approved by the Company’s Board, mainly in time deposits with different 
financial institutions, private investment funds, short -term mutual funds, and easily -liquidated 
corporate and  sovereign bonds with short remaining maturities. These investments are booked as 
Cash and cash equivalents and other current financial assets.  
 
In order to reduce counterparty risk and to ensure that the risk assumed is known and managed by 
the Company, i nvestments are diversified among different banking institutions (both local and 
international). The Company evaluates the credit standing of each counterparty and the levels of 
investment, based on (i) their credit rating, (ii) the equity size of the count
erparty, and                             34 
 
 (iii) investment limits according to the Company’s level of liquidity. According to these three parameters, the Company chooses the most restrictive parameter of the previous three and based on 
this, establishes lim its for operations with each counterparty.  
 
The Company has no guarantees to mitigate this exposure.  
 Additionally, section 345(b) of the Chapter 11 of the US Bankruptcy Code imposes restrictions on, 
among other things, the institutions where the Debtors c an hold their cash. In particular, it 
establishes that cash should be held in what are called Authorized Bank Depositories, which are US 
Banking Institutions that are accepted by the US Trustee Program of the US Department of Justice.  
Such Authorized Bank  Depositories have generally agreed with the US Trustee Program to 
maintain collateral of no less than 115% of the aggregate funds on deposit (in excess of FDIC insurance limit) by (i) surety bond or (ii) US Treasury securities. Consequently, pursuant to S ection 
345(b), as implemented through an agreement with the Office of the United States Trustee, as of 
the year end the Company held the majority of its cash and equivalents in Banks in the US that are 
depositories authorized by Office of the United States  Trustee for the Southern District of New 
York. Otherwise, the DIP Facility contains certain restrictions on new investments made by the Debtors during the term of the facility.  
 
(ii)       Operational activities  
 The Company has four large sales “clusters ”: travel agencies, cargo agents, airlines and credit -card 
administrators. The first three are governed by International Air Transport Association, international (“IATA”) organization comprising most of the airlines that represent over 90% of 
scheduled com mercial traffic and one of its main objectives is to regulate the financial transactions 
between airlines and travel agents and cargo. When an agency or airline does not pay their debt, 
they are excluded from operating with IATA’s member airlines. In the c ase of credit -card 
administrators, they are fully guaranteed by 100% by the issuing institutions.  
 
Under certain of the Company’s credit card processing agreements, the financial institutions have 
the right to require that the Company maintain a reserve eq ual to a portion of advance ticket sales 
that have been processed by that financial institution, but for which the Company has not yet 
provided the air transportation. Additionally, the financial institutions have the ability to require 
additional collater al reserves or withhold payments related to receivables to be collected if 
increased risk is perceived related to liquidity covenants in these agreements or negative balances occur.  
 
The exposure consists of the term granted, which fluctuates between 1 and  45 days.  
 One of the tools the Company uses for reducing credit risk is to participate in global entities related 
to the industry, such as IATA, Business Sales Processing (“BSP”), Cargo Account Settlement 
Systems (“CASS”), IATA Clearing House (“ICH”) and banks (credit cards). These institutions 
fulfill the role of collectors and distributors between airlines and travel and cargo agencies. In the 
case of the Clearing House, it acts as an offsetting entity between airlines for the services provided 
between t hem. A reduction in term and implementation of guarantees has been achieved through 
these entities. Currently the sales invoicing of TAM Linhas Aéreas S.A. related with travel agents 
and cargo agents for domestic transportation in Brazil is done directly b y TAM Linhas Aéreas S.A.  
 
 
204 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202035 
 
 Credit quality of financial assets  
The external credit evaluation system used by the Company is provided by IATA. Internal systems 
are also used for particular evaluations or specific markets based on trade reports available on t he 
local market. The internal classification system is complementary to the external one, i.e. for agencies or airlines not members of IATA, the internal demands are greater.  
 To reduce the credit risk associated with operational activities, the Company h as established credit 
limits to abridge the exposure of their debtors which are monitored permanently (mainly in case of 
operational activities of TAM Linhas Aéreas S.A. with travel agents).  The bad -debt rate in the 
principal countries where the Company ha s a presence is insignificant.  
 
(c) Liquidity risk  
 
Liquidity risk represents the risk that the Company does not have sufficient funds to pay its 
obligations.  
 Due to the cyclical nature of its business, the operation and investment needs, along with the n eed 
for financing, the Company requires liquid funds, defined as Cash and cash equivalents plus other 
short -term financial assets, to meet its payment obligations. On May 26, 2020, the Company and its 
subsidiaries in Chile, Peru, Colombia, Ecuador and the United States began a voluntary process of 
reorganization and restructuring of their debt under the protection of the Chapter 11 of the United 
States, to which on July 9, the Brazilian subsidiary and certain of its subsidiaries were included, in 
order to p reserve the group's liquidity. In light of the unprecedented impact COVID -19 has had on 
the global aviation industry, this reorganization process provides LATAM with the opportunity to 
work with the group's creditors, and main stakeholders, to reduce its d ebt and obtain new sources of 
financing, providing the company with the tools to adapt the group to this new reality.  
 
The balance of liquid funds, future cash generation and the ability to obtain financing, provides the Company with alternatives to meet f uture investment and financing commitments.  
As of December 31, 2020, the balance of liquid funds is US$ 1,696 million (US $ 1,073 million as of December 31, 2019), which are invested in short -term instruments through financial entities with 
a high -risk cla ssification.  
 
As of December 31, 2020, LATAM maintains a committed revolving credit facility (Revolving 
Credit Facility) for a total amount of US$ 600 million, which is fully drawn. This line is secured by and subject to the availability of collateral (i.e . aircraft, engines and spare parts).  
 In order to preserve liquidity, the Company has implemented a series of measures. Among them, the 
Company proposed 50% salary reduction to the entire organization for the second quarter, which 
was accepted by more tha n 90% of the employees. For the third quarter, the salary reduction to the 
entire organization was between 20% and 25%, which also had an adhesion of more than 90% of 
the group's employees, and for the fourth quarter a reduction of 15% was proposed, which also 
achieved high levels of adherence.  
 
Finally, during the year 2020, the company has reduced its planned investments for 2020 by approximately US$ 698 million, mainly related to maintenance, given the lower operation, purchase 
of engines, investments in cabins and other projects, given the reduced operation. In addition, 36 
 
 LATAM did not receive aircrafts that were previously committed to be delivered during 2020, 
which at the beginning of the year amounted to US$ 408 million.  
 After filing Chapter 11 prote ction, the company received authorization from the Bankruptcy Court 
for the “debtors in possession” (DIP) financing, in the form of a multi -draw term loan facility in an 
aggregate principal amount of up to US$ 2,450 million. This facility consists of two t ranches in 
which the following creditors participate:  
 1) A Tranche A, which is committed for up to US$ 1,300 million, out of which (i) US$ 1,125 million were be provided by Oaktree Capital Management, L.P. or certain entities related to it; and 
(ii) US$ 1 75 million were be provided by Knighthead, Jefferies and / or other entities that are part 
of the syndicate of creditors organized by Jefferies; and  
 
2) A Tranche C,  which is committed for up to US$ 1,150 million, out of which (i) US$ 750 million 
were be p rovided by LATAM's group of shareholders composed by Grupo Cueto, Grupo Eblen and 
Qatar Airways, or certain related entities; (ii) US$ 250 million were be provided by Knighthead, Jefferies and / or other entities that are part of the syndicate of creditors  organized by Jefferies; and 
(iii)   US$ 150 million  which were an upsize in commitments provided by certain additional shareholder investors through a public investment fund managed by Toesca S.A. on November 6, 2020, through a joinder to the DIP Agreeme nt. 
 In addition, this proposal contemplates a possible Tranche B for up to an additional US$ 750 
million, subject to the authorization of the Court and other customary conditions for this type of 
operations.  
 On October 8, 2020, the first disbursement too k place under the DIP Credit Agreement for a 50% of 
the total funds committed to that date, US$ 1,150 million. Pursuant to the terms of the DIP 
Agreement, the Debtors will be required to maintain consolidated liquidity of at least US$ 400 
million, taking i nto consideration the undrawn portion of the DIP financing, and meet certain 
milestones with respect to the bankruptcy process).  
205 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202037 
 
 Class of liability for the analysis of liquidity risk ordered by date of maturity as of December 31, 2020 
Debtor: LATAM Airlines Group S.A. and Subsidiaries, Tax No. 89.862.200-2 Chile.
More than More than More than
Creditor Up to 90 days one to three to More than
Tax No. Creditor country Currency 90 to one three five five Nominal Effective Nominal
days year years years years Total value Amortization rate rate
ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ % %
Loans to exporters
97.018.000-1 SCOTIABANK Chile US$ 76,929  -  -  -  - 76,929 74,000 At Expiration 3.08 3.08
97.030.000-7 BANCO ESTADO Chile US$ 41,543  -  -  -  - 41,543 40,000 At Expiration 3.49 3.49
76.645.030-K ITAU Chile US$ 20,685  -  -  -  - 20,685 20,000 At Expiration 4.20 4.20
97.951.000-4 HSBC Chile US$ 12,545  -  -  -  - 12,545 12,000 At Expiration 4.15 4.15
Bank loans
97.023.000-9 CORPBANCA Chile UF 11,631  -  -  -  - 11,631 11,255 Quarterly 3.35 3.35
0-E SANTANDER Spain US$ 3,323 2,678 139,459  -  - 145,460 139,459 Quarterly 2.80 2.80
76.362.099-9 BTG Chile UF 2,104 68,920  -  -  - 71,024 67,868 At Expiration 3.10 3.10
Obligations with the public
97.030.000-7 BANCO ESTADO Chile UF 23,210 26,857 217,555 35,041 429,101 731,764 560,113 At Expiration 4.81 4.81
0-E BANK OF NEW YORK U.S.A. US$ 80,063 76,125 208,250 836,063 828,000 2,028,501 1,500,000 At Expiration 7.16 6.94
Guaranteed obligations
0-E BNP PARIBAS U.S.A. US$ 50,500 40,889 104,166 107,342 219,666 522,563 474,273 Quarterly / Semiannual 2.95 2.95
0-E NATIXIS France US$ 47,918 37,509 84,048 84,487 35,712 289,674 271,129 Quarterly 3.11 3.11
0-E INVESTEC England US$ 11,502 9,425 21,042  -  - 41,969 37,870 Semiannual 6.21 6.21
0-E MUFG U.S.A. US$ 37,114 28,497 77,881 80,678 194,901 419,071 382,413 Quarterly 2.88 2.88
0-E SMBC U.S.A. US$ 131,345  -  -  - 131,345 130,000 At Expiration 1.73 1.73
Other guaranteed obligation
0-E CREDIT AGRICOLE France US$ 1,347 275,773  -  -  - 277,120 273,199 At Expiration 1.92 1.92
0-E MUFG U.S.A. US$ 87,611 74,852 119,460 19,950  - 301,873 291,519 Quarterly 2.67 2.67
0-E CITIBANK U.S.A. US$ 3,405 10,404 603,443  -  - 617,252 600,000 At Expiration 2.27 2.27
0-E BANK OF UTAH U.S.A. US$  -  - 952,990  -  - 952,990 793,003 At Expiration 22.19 13,19
Financial lease
0-E ING U.S.A. US$ 5,965  -  -  -  - 5,965 5,965 Quarterly 5.71 5.01
0-E CREDIT AGRICOLE France US$ 13,889 2,057 2,062  -  - 18,008 17,961 Quarterly 1.99 1.54
0-E CITIBANK U.S.A. US$ 79,117 61,983 118,372 46,115 19,118 324,705 312,792 Quarterly 2.58 1.77
0-E PEFCO U.S.A. US$ 1,926  -  -  -  - 1,926 1,926 Quarterly 5.65 5.03
0-E BNP PARIBAS U.S.A. US$ 14,851 2,343 793  -  - 17,987 17,951 Quarterly 1.81 1.41
0-E WELLS FARGO U.S.A. US$ 114,952 104,946 237,945 99,232  - 557,075 541,406 Quarterly 2.43 1.74
97.036.000-K SANTANDER Chile US$ 21,551 17,851 26,308  -  - 65,710 65,247 Quarterly 1.30 0.76
0-E RRPF ENGINE LEASING England US$ 4,093 3,382 8,826 4,870  - 21,171 18,489 Monthly 4.01 4.01
0-E APPLE BANK U.S.A. US$ 4,589 4,763 12,977 755  - 23,084 22,730 Quarterly 1.61 1.01
0-E BTMU U.S.A. US$ 11,620 9,647 26,261 770  - 48,298 47,609 Quarterly 1.63 1.03
0-E US BANK U.S.A. US$ 60,527 54,611 144,670 86,076  - 345,884 327,419 Quarterly 4.00 2.82
0-E PK AIRFINANCE U.S.A. US$ 4,624 12,202 3,153  - 19,979 19,522 Monthly 1.98 1.98
TOTAL 980,479 925,714 3,109,661 1,401,379 1,726,498 8,143,731 7,077,118
citibank
(*) Oblligation are presented according original contractual condition and do not considered any Chapter 11 resolution. See detail on Note 19.Annual
206 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202038 
 
  
Class of liability for the analysis of liquidity risk ordered by date of maturity as of December 31, 2020 
Debtor: TAM S.A. and Subsidiaries, Tax No. 02.012.862/0001-60, Brazil.
More than More than More than
Up to 90 days one to three to More than
Creditor 90 to one three five five Nominal Effective Nominal
Tax No. Creditor country Currency days year years years years Total value Amortization rate rate
ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ % %
Bank loans
0-E NCM Netherlands US$ 452 497 61  -  - 1,010 943 Monthly 6.01 6.01
0-E BANCO BRADESCO Brazil BRL 91,672  -  -  -  - 91,672 80,175 Monthly 4.34 4.34
0-E BANCO DO BRASIL Brazil BRL 208,987  -  -  -  - 208,987 199,557 Monthly 3.95 3.95
Financial leases
0-E NATIXIS France US$ 31,482 9,276 42,383  -  - 83,141 81,260 Quarterly / Semiannual 4.09 4.09
0-E WACAPOU LEASING S.A. Luxembourg US$ 2,460 2,442 25  -  - 4,927 4,759 Quarterly 2.00 2.00
0-E SOCIÉTÉ GÉNÉRALE MILAN BRANCH Italy US$ 134,919  -  -  -  - 134,919 144,120 Quarterly 3.07 3.01
0-E GA TELESIS LLC U.S.A. US$ 758 1,753 4,675 4,675 7,969 19,830 12,261 Monthly 14.72 14.72
TOTAL 470,730 13,968 47,144 4,675 7,969 544,486 523,075
(*) Oblligation are presented according original contractual condition and do not considered any Chapter 11 resolution. See detail on Note 19.Annual
 
 
207 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202039 
 
 Class of liability for the analysis of liquidity risk ordered by date of maturity as of December 31, 2020 
Debtor: LATAM Airlines Group S.A. and Subsidiaries, Tax No. 89.862.200-2, Chile.
More than More than More than
Up to 90 days one to three to More than
Creditor 90 to one three five five Nominal Effective Nominal
Tax No. Creditor country Currency days year years years years Total value Amortization rate rate
ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ % %
Lease Liability
- AIRCRAFT OTHERS US$ 226,510 679,529 877,438 812,821 889,072 3,485,370 3,026,573 - - -
- OTHER ASSETS OTHERS US$ 3,403 9,953 6,706 18,271 6,349 44,682 46,520 - - -
UF 2,103 5,836 1,072 1,973 2,485 13,469 11,401 - - -
COP 22 7 14  -  - 43 48 - - -
EUR 156 443 188  -  - 787 772 - - -
PEN 29 15 49  -  - 93 137 - - -
BRL 1,002 3,891 14,414  -  - 19,307 35,555 - - -
Trade and other accounts payables
- OTHERS OTHERS US$ 330,172 47,781  -  - 377,953 377,953 - - -
CLP 230,997 119,337  -  - 350,334 350,334 - - -
BRL 359,350 5,859  -  - 365,209 365,209 - - -
Other currency 598,619 65,684  -  - 664,303 664,303 - - -
Accounts payable to related parties currents
Foreign Delta Airlines U.S.A USD 805  -  -  - 805 805 - - -
Foreign Patagonia Seafarms INC ChileU.S.A CLP 7  -  -  - 7 7
97.810.370-9 Inversiones Costa Verde Ltda. y CPA. Chile CLP  -  - 105,713  - 105,713 105,713
Foreign QA Investments Ltd Jersey Channel Islands USD  -  - 132,141  - 132,141 132,141 - - -
Foreign QA Investments 2 Ltd Jersey Channel Islands USD  -  - 132,141  - 132,141 132,141
Foreign Lozuy S.A. Uruguay USD  -  - 26,428  -  - 26,428 26,428 - - -
 Total 1,753,175 938,335 1,296,304 833,065 897,906 5,718,785 5,276,040
 Total  consolidated 3,204,384 1,878,017 4,453,109 2,239,119 2,632,373 14,407,002 12,876,233Annual
 
 
 
208 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202040 
 
 C la s s  o f lia bility fo r the  a na lys is  o f liquidity ris k o rde re d by da te  o f m a turity a s  o f De c e m be r 31, 2019
Debtor: LATAM Airlines Group S.A. and Subsidiaries, Tax No. 89.862.200-2 Chile.
More than More than More than
Up to 90 days one to three to More than
C re dito r 90 to one three five five Nominal Effective Nominal
Tax No. C re dito r country Currency da ys y ear y ears y ears y ears Total value Am o rtiza tio n rate rate
ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ % %
L oans to ex por ter s
97.032.000-8 BBV A C hile US $ 24,387 76,256  -  -  - 1 00,643 99,000 At Expira tio n 3.29 3.29
97.003.000-K BANCO DO BRASI L C hile US $ 1 51 ,489 50,758  -  -  - 202,247 200,000 At Expira tio n 2.93 2.93
76.1 00.458-1 HSBC C hile US $ 1 2,098  -  -  -  - 1 2,098 1 2,000 At Expira tio n 3.25 3.25
76.1 00.458-1 BLADEX C hile US $  - 29,277  -  -  - 29,277 29,000 At Expira tio n 2.82 2.82
Bank loans
97.023.000-9 CORPBANCA C hile UF 5,336 1 0,544  -  -  - 1 5,880 15 , 6 15 Quarterly 3.35 3.35
76.362.099-9 BTG  P ACTUAL  CHI LE C hile UF 484 1 ,451 63,872  -  - 65,807 62,769 At Expira tio n 3 . 10 3 . 10
0-E SANTANDER S pa in US $ 1, 5 14 4,809 14 1, 7 19  -  - 1 48,042 1 37,860 Quarterly 3.62 4.61
Obligations with the public
97.030.000-7 BANCO ESTADO C hile UF  - 24,702 208,681 32,228 41 0,774 676,385 51 8,032 At Expira tio n 4.81 4.81
0-E BANK OF NEW YORK U.S .A. US $ 28,000 76,1 25 208,250 884,1 88 884,000 2,080,563 1 ,500,000 At Expira tio n 7 . 16 6.94
Guaranteed obligations
0-E BNP  P ARI BAS U.S .A. US $ 11, 6 5 7 50,428 1 24,1 06 1 24,1 67 302,092 61 2,450 51 3,941 Quarterly / Semiannual 3.81 3.81
0-E WI LMI NGTON TRUST COMP ANY U.S .A. US $ 31 ,733 94,096 244,836 237,81 5 438,659 1 ,047,1 39 866,223 Quarterly 4.45 4.45
0-E CI TI BANK U.S .A. US $ 5,765 1 7,296 46,1 20 4 6 , 117 42,1 75 1 57,473 1 43,475 Quarterly 3.76 2.68
0-E NATI XI S France US $ 1 3,365 40,1 59 99,556 86,984 79,724 31 9,788 282,906 Quarterly 3.82 3.82
0-E MU FG U.S .A. US $ 5,552 27,068 73,726 73,91 4 209,621 389,881 322,660 Quarterly 3.43 3.43
0-E I NVESTEC England US $ 1 ,980 11, 16 4 26,1 53 11, 0 7 1  - 50,368 44,087 Semiannual 6.35 6.35
Other guaranteed obligation
0-E CREDI T AGRI COLE France US $ 2,326 6,740 260,259  -  - 269,325 253,692 At Expira tio n 3.74 3.74
0-E MU FG U.S .A. US $ 26,607 78,955 1 98,783 46,1 31  - 350,476 328,023 Quarterly 3.54 3.54
Fi nanci al  l ease
0-E IN G U.S .A. US $ 4,025 8,1 08  -  -  - 12 , 13 3 11, 8 0 6 Quarterly 5.71 5.01
0-E CREDI T AGRI COLE France US $ 4,994 1 5,026 6,671  -  - 26,691 26,091 Quarterly 3 . 15 2.52
0-E CI TI BANK U.S .A. US $ 19 , 4 12 56,1 48 1 1 7,881 1 6,653  - 21 0,094 200,907 Quarterly 3.39 2.80
0-E PEFCO U.S .A. US $ 1 ,950 1 ,950  -  -  - 3,900 3,827 Quarterly 5.65 5.03
0-E BNP  P ARI BAS U.S .A. US $ 9,353 25,21 1 28,663 22,502 1 0,354 96,083 87,729 Quarterly 3.85 3.72
0-E WELLS  F AR GO U.S .A. US $ 35,251 1 05,691 261 ,1 81 203,232 1 4,382 61 9,737 591 ,684 Quarterly 2.67 1. 9 8
97.036.000-K SANTANDER C hile US $ 6,1 45 1 8,394 47,91 1 3,1 58  - 75,608 72,551 Quarterly 3.00 2.46
0-E RRP F ENGI NE England US $ 1, 15 2 3,432 8,967 8,679 568 22,798 1 9,643 Monthly 4.01 4.01
0-E AP P LE BANK U.S .A. US $ 1 ,661 4,977 1 3,259 7,380  - 27,277 25,708 Quarterly 3.33 2.73
0-E BTMU U.S .A. US $ 3,367 1 0,081 26,827 14 , 15 3  - 54,428 51 ,340 Quarterly 3.33 2.73
0-E NATI XI S France US $ 759 2,299 2,330  -  - 5,388 5,1 54 Quarterly 4.41 4.41
0-E KF W IP EX-B ANK Germany US $ 1 ,804 3,607  -  -  - 5,41 1 5,328 Quarterly 3.55 3.55
0-E AI RBUS FI NANCI AL U.S .A. US $ 2,038 5,746  -  -  - 7,784 7,664 Monthly 3.31 3.31
0-E US BANK U.S .A. US $ 1 8,328 54,864 1 45,364 1 40,555 1 7,681 376,792 349,1 27 Quarterly 4.01 2.82
0-E P K AI RFI NANCE U.S .A. US $ 2,652 8,1 36 18 , 19 4  -  - 28,982 28,087 Monthly 3.45 3.45
Other loans
0-E CI TI BANK (* ) U.S .A. US $ 2 6 , 111 78,742  -  -  - 1 04,853 1 01 ,026 Quarterly 6.00 6.00
Hedge derivative
- OTHERS - US $  - 11, 5 8 2 1 8,641 1 3,530  - 43,753 1 6,972 - - -
 Total 461 ,295 1 ,01 3,822 2,391 ,950 1 ,972,457 2,41 0,030 8,249,554 6,933,927
(* ) Bonus securitized with the future flows of credit card sales in the United States and Canada, through the Guanay Finance Limited company.Annual
 
209 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202041 
 
 Class of liability for the analysis of liquidity risk ordered by date of maturity as of December 31 , 201 9
Debtor: TAM S.A. and Subsidiaries, Tax No. 02.01 2.862/0001 -60, Brazil.
More than More than More than
Up to 90 days one to three to More than
Creditor 90 to one three five five No m ina l Effective No m ina l
Tax No. Creditor country Currency da ys y ear y ears y ears y ears Total value Am o rtiza tio n rate rate
ThUS $ ThUS $ ThUS $ ThUS $ ThUS $ ThUS $ ThUS $ % %
Bank loans
0-E NCM Netherlands US $ 17 3 499 722  -  - 1 ,394 1 ,289 Monthly 6.01 6.01
Fi nanci al  l eases
0-E NATI XI S France US $ 4,1 40 7,965 77,028  -  - 89,1 33 86,256 Quarterly / Semiannual 6.29 6.29
0-E WACAP OU LEASI NG S.A. Luxembourg US $ 835 2,450 3,277  -  - 6,562 6,280 Quarterly 4.32 4.32
0-E SOCI ÉTÉ GÉNÉRALE  MI LAN BRANCH It a ly US $ 11, 2 8 6 1 51 ,047  -  -  - 1 62,333 1 69,931 Quarterly 5.39 5.39
0-E GA Te le s is  LLC U.S .A. US $ 677 1 ,753 4,675 4,675 1 0,480 22,260 1 3,495 Monthly 1 4.72 1 4.72
 Total 17 , 111 1 63,71 4 85,702 4,675 1 0,480 281 ,682 277,251Annual
 
 
210 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202042 
 
 Class of liability for the analysis of liquidity risk ordered by date of maturity as of December 31 , 201 9
Debtor: LATAM Airlines Group S.A. and Subsidiaries, Tax No. 89.862.200-2, Chile.
More than More than More than
Up to 90 days one to three to More than
Creditor 90 to one three five five No m ina l Effective No m ina l
Tax No. Creditor country Currency da ys y ear y ears y ears y ears Total value Am o rtiza tio n rate rate
ThUS $ ThUS $ ThUS $ ThUS $ ThUS $ ThUS $ ThUS $ % %
Le a s e  Lia bility
- AI RCRAFT OTHERS US $ 1 46,036 41 7,929 1 ,002,564 877,353 1 ,357,91 0 3,801 ,792 3,042,231 - - -
- OTHER ASSETS OTHERS US $ 3,01 7 8,649 21 ,381 19 , 8 15 16 , 3 14 69,1 76 53,931 - - -
C LP 16 0 478 531  -  - 1, 16 9 1, 19 5 - - -
UF 2,71 3 4,736 5,789 1 ,373 2,956 1 7,567 17 , 14 5 - - -
COP 71 16 1 37 2  - 271 259 - - -
EUR 16 3 387 592 12 2  - 1 ,264 1, 17 5 - - -
GBP 16 10  -  -  - 26 24 - - -
M XN 37 93 245 10  - 385 359 - - -
P EN 95 12 9 83 16  - 323 306 - - -
Other currencies 2,770 8,370 8,508 43,1 04  - 62,752 55,532 - - -
Trade and other accounts payables
- OTHERS OTHERS US $ 371 ,527 1 3,993  -  -  - 385,520 385,520 - - -
C LP 220,383 905  -  -  - 221 ,288 221 ,288 - - -
BRL 486,082 320  -  -  - 486,402 486,402 - - -
Other currencies 576,378 1, 7 16  -  -  - 578,094 578,094 - - -
Accounts payable to related parties currents
78.591 .370-1 B e thia  S .A. y F ilia le s C hile C LP 53  -  -  -  - 53 53 - - -
F o re ign Patagoni a Seafarms I NC U.S .A. C LP 3  -  -  -  - 3 3 - - -
 Total 1 ,809,504 457,876 1 ,039,730 941 ,795 1 ,377,1 80 5,626,085 4,843,51 7
 Total  consolidated 2,287,91 0 1 ,635,41 2 3,51 7,382 2,91 8,927 3,797,690 1 4,1 57,321 1 2,054,695Annual
211 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202043 
 
 The Company has fuel, interest rate and exchange rate hedging strategies involving derivatives 
contracts with differen t financial institutions.  
 
At the end of 2019, the Company had delivered US$ 2.37 million in guarantees for derivative 
margins, corresponding to cash and standby letters of credit. As of December 31, 2020, the 
Company maintains guarantees for US $ 0.6 mil lion corresponding to derivative transactions. The 
decrease was due to: i) the expiration of hedge contracts, ii) acquisition of new hedge contracts, and 
iii) changes in fuel prices, changes in exchange rates and interest rates.  
 
3.2. Capital risk manageme nt 
 
The objectives of the Company, in relation to capital management are: (i) to meet the minimum 
equity requirements and (ii) to maintain an optimal capital structure.  
 
The Com pany monitors contractual obligations and regulatory requirements in the different 
countries where the group's companies are domiciled to ensure faithful compliance with the minimum equity requirement, the most restrictive limit of which is to maintain pos itive liquid 
equity.  
 
Additionally, the Company periodically monitors the short and long term cash flow projections to ensure that it has sufficient cash generation alternatives to meet future investment and financing commitments.  
 
The international credit  rating of the Company is the result of the ability to meet long -term financial 
commitments. As of December 31, 2020, and as a consequence of the expected decline in demand due to the COVID -19 pandemic and the Company's filing for voluntary protection unde r the U.S. 
Chapter 11 reorganization statute, Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s y Fitch Ratings withdrew their credit ratings for LATAM 
 
3.3.  Estimates of fair value.  
 
At December 31 , 2020, the Company maintained financial instruments that should be recorded at 
fair value.  These are grouped into two categories:  
 
1. Hedge Instruments:  
 
This category includes the following instruments:  
 
- Interest rate derivative contracts,  
 
- Fuel derivativ e contracts,  
 
- Currency derivative contracts.  
 
2. Financial Investments:  
 
This category includes the following instruments:  
 
- Investments in short -term Mutual Funds (cash equivalent)  
 
- Private investment funds.  
 
The Company has classified the fair value meas urement using a hierarchy that reflects the level of 
information used in the assessment. This hierarchy consists of 3 levels (I) fair value based on 
212 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202044 
 
 quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities , (II) fair value calculated through 
valuation methods based on i nputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are 
observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as prices) or indirectly (that is, derived 
from prices)  and (III) fair value based on i nputs for the a sset or liability that are not based on 
observable market data.  
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets, such as investments acquired for 
trading, is based on quoted market prices at the close of the period using the current price of the 
buyer. The fair value of financial assets not traded in active markets (derivative contracts) is 
determined using valuation techniques that maximize use of available market information. 
Valuation techniques generally used by the Company are quoted m arket prices of similar 
instruments and / or estimating the present value of future cash flows using forward price curves of the market at period end.  
The following table shows the classification of financial instruments at fair value, depending on the level of information used in the assessment:  
Cash and cash equivalents
Other financial assets, current
Other financial liabilities, currentShort -t erm mut ual funds 32,782 32,782  -  - 222,094 222,094  -  - 
48,347  - 48,347  - 
 -  -  -  - 50,372  - 50,372  - 
302  - 302  - 386,669 386,669  -  - 
19 19  -  -  - 
471,797 386,688 85,109  - 
27,044  - 27,044  - considered as
Fair value               Level II Level IIIAs of December 31, 2020 As of December 31, 2019
considered as
Fair value               Level I Level II Level IIIFair value measurements using values Fair value measurements using values 
T h US$ T h US$ T h US$ T h US$
Assets
32,782 32,782  -  - T h US$ T h US$ T h US$ T h US$
222,094 222,094  - 
Investment funds  -  -  -  - 
4,097 366 3,731  - 
48,542  - 48,044  - Fair value of fuel derivatives 1,296  - 1,296  - 
586  - 586  - Fair value interest rate derivatives  -  -  -  - 
Certificate of Deposit (CBD) 2,435  - 2,435  - Private investment funds 348 348  -  - 
8,934  - 8,934  - 
Domestic and foreign bonds 18 18  -  - 
5,671  - 5,671  - Liabilities
Fair value of interest rate derivatives 2,734  - 2,734  - 
Fair value of foreign currency derivatives  -  -  -  - 
Interest accrued since the last payment 
date of Currency Swap  -  -  -  - 1,723  - 1,723  - 
Currency derivative not registered as hedge accounting 2,937  - 2,937  - Level I
Accrued interest since the last payment 
date Swap of currencies  -  -  -  - 3  - 3  - Fair value of foreign currency derivative  -  -  -  - 
 
 
213 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202045 
 
 Additionally, at December 31 , 2020,  the Company has financial instruments which are not recorded 
at fair value. In order to meet the disclosure requirements of fair values, the Company has valued 
these instruments as shown in the table below:  
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash on hand
Bank balance
Overnight
Time deposits
Other financial assets, current
Other financial assets
Trade debtors, other accounts receivable and
Current accounts receivable
Accounts receivable from entities
related, current
Other financial assets, not current
Accounts receivable, non-current
Other current financial liabilities
Accounts payable for trade and other accounts
payable, current
Accounts payable to entities
related, current
Other financial liabilities, not current
Accounts payable, not currentAccounts payable to related entities, non-current
          396,423           410,706                    -                      -   As of  December 31, 2020
Book FairAs of  December 31, 2019
Book Fair
              4,982 value value
ThUS$ ThUS$value value
ThUS$ ThUS$
       1,663,059        1,663,059 
              4,277               4,277           850,486 
          123,984           123,894           165,791           732,578           732,578 
          802,220           802,220           329,633 
          350,080 
            33,140             33,140 
              4,986             27,707 
            27,707             27,707 
          599,180           599,180        1,244,348             46,153             46,153 
            46,153             46,153             27,707 
            46,907 
              4,725 
          651,600           651,600                  812                  812 
       7,803,801        6,509,081        2,995,768 
          619,110           619,110                    56                    56 
       8,530,418        8,846,418           165,791           329,633 
          350,080           850,486 
              4,982 
       2,222,874        2,222,874               4,986             46,907 
       2,019,068 
       2,322,961        2,322,961        1,835,288        1,244,348 
            19,645             19,645                  158                  158 
              4,725 
       3,050,059 
 
The book values of account s receivable and payable are assumed to approximate their fair values, 
due to their short -term nature. In the case of cash on hand, bank balances, overnight, time deposits 
and accounts payable, non -current, fair value approximates their carrying values.  
 
The fair value of other financial liabilities is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash 
flows at the current market interest rate for similar financial instruments (Level II). In the case of Other financial assets, the valuation was performed according to market prices at period end.  The 
book value of Other financial liabilities, current or non -current, do not include lease liabilities.  
  
NOTE 4 - ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGMENTS  
 
The Compan y has used estimates to value and record some of the assets, liabilities, income, 
expenses and commitments. Basically, these estimates refer to:  
 
(a) Evaluation of possible losses due to impairment of goodwill and intangible assets with 
indefinite useful l ife 
 46 
 
 Management conducts an impairment test annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate potential impairment. An impairment loss is recognized for the amount by 
which the carrying amount of the cash generating unit (CGU) exce eds its recoverable amount.  
 
Management’s value -in-use calculations included significant judgments and assumptions relating to 
revenue growth rates, exchange rate, discount rate, inflation rates, fuel price. The estimation of these assumptions requires significant judgment by the management, as these variables feature 
inherent uncertainty; however, the assumptions used are consistent with Company’s forecasts 
approved by management . Therefore, management evaluates and updates the estimates as 
necessary, in l ight of conditions that affect these variables. The main assumptions used as well as 
the corresponding sensitivity analyses are showed in Note 16.  
 (b)  Useful life, residual value, and impairment of property, plant, and equipment  
 
The depreciation of asse ts is calculated based on the linear model, except for certain technical 
components depreciated on cycles and hours flown. These useful lives are reviewed on an annual 
basis according with the Company’s future economic benefits associated with them.  
 Chan ges in circumstances such as: technological advances, business model, planned use of assets or 
capital strategy may render the useful life different to the lifespan estimated. When it is determined 
that the useful life of property, plant, and equipment mus t be reduced, as may occur in line with 
changes in planned usage of assets, the difference between the net book value and estimated recoverable value is depreciated, in accordance with the revised remaining useful life.  
 The residual values are estimated according to the market value that said assets will have at the end 
of their life. The residual value and useful life of the assets are reviewed, and adjusted if necessary, 
once a year. When the value of an asset is grea ter than its estimated recoverable amount, its value is 
immediately reduced to its recoverable amount.  
 
The Company has concluded that the Properties, Plant and Equipment cannot generate cash inflows 
to a large extent independent of other assets, therefore  the impairment assessment is made as an 
integral part of the only Cash Generating Unit maintained by the Company, Air Transport. The 
Company checks when there are signs of impairment, whether the assets have suffered any 
impairment losses at the Cash Generated Unit level.  
 (c)  Recoverability of deferred tax assets   
 
Management records deferred taxes on the temporary differences that arise between the tax bases of 
assets and liabilities and their amounts in the financial statements. Deferred tax assets on tax losses 
are recognized to the extent that it is probable that future tax benefits will be available to offset temporary differences.  
 
The Company applies significant judgment in evaluating the recoverability of deferred tax assets. 
In determining the am ounts of the deferred tax asset to be accounted for, management considers 
historical profitability, projected future taxable income (considering assumptions such as: growth rate, exchange rate, discount rate, fuel price online with those used in the impair ment analysis of 
the group's cash -generating unit) and the expected timing of reversals of existing temporary 
differences.  
 
214 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202047 
 
 (d)  Air tickets sold that will not be finally used.  
 
The Company records the sale of air tickets as deferred income. Ordinary incom e from the sale of 
tickets is recognized in the income statement when the passenger transport service is provided or 
expired for non -use. The Company evaluates monthly the probability of expiration of air tickets, 
with return clauses, based on the history of use of air tickets. A change in this probability could 
generate an impact on revenue in the year in which the change occurs and in future years.  
 In effect and due to the worldwide contingency of the COVID 19 pandemic, the company has established new c ommercial policies with clients regarding the validity of air tickets, making it 
easier to use in flight, reissue and return.  
 
Under this new scenario, in the year 2020 no income for expiration ticket’s revenue were recorded, 
which in a normal scenario wou ld have amounted to approximately ThUS $ 70,000.  
 
As of December 31, 2020, deferred income associated with air tickets sold amounted to                           
ThUS $ 904,558 (ThUS $ 1,511,179 as of December 31, 2019).  
 (e)    Valuation of miles and points awarded to holders of loyalty programs, pending use.  
 
As of December 31, 2020, the deferred income associated with the LATAM Pass loyalty program 
amounts to ThUS $ 1,365,534 (ThUS $ 1,332,173 as of December 31, 2019). A hypothetical 
change of one percen tage point in the probability of swaps would translate into an impact of ThUS 
$ 24,425 in the results as of 2020 (ThUS $ 30,506 in the results as of 2019). The deferred income associated with the LATAM Pass Brasil loyalty program (See Note 22) amounts to T hUS $ 
187,493 as of December 31, 2020 (ThUS $ 354,847 as of December 31, 2019). A hypothetical 
change of two percentage points in exchange probability would translate into an impact of ThUS $ 
2,950 in the results as of 2020 (ThUS $ 3,150 in the results as of 2019).  
  
Management used statistical models to estimate the miles and point awarded that will not be 
redeemed, by the programs members (breakage) which involved significant judgments and assumptions relating the historical redemption and expiration acti vity and forecasted redemption 
and expiration patterns.  
 
For the LATAM Pass Brasil loyalty program, expiration occurs after a fixed period of time from 
accumulation, the model is built by the administration considering historical expiration rates, exchange  behaviors and relevant segmentations. 
 For LATAM Pass there are rules that allow members to renew their miles, so the management in 
conjunction with an external specialist develop a predictive model of non -use miles, which allows 
to generate non -use rates  on the basis of historical information, based on behavior of the 
accumulation, use and expiration of the miles.  
(f)  Provisions needs, and their valuation when required  
 In the case of known contingencies, the Company records a provision when it has a pr esent 
obligation, whether legal or implicit, as a result of past events, it is likely that an outflow of resources will be necessary to settle the obligation and the amount is has reliably estimated. Based on available information, the Company uses the kno wledge, experience and professional judgment, 48 
 
 to the specific characteristics of the known risks. This process facilitates the early assessment and quantification of potential risks in individual cases or in the development of contingent matters.  
 
Company recognized as the present obligation under an onerous contract as a provision when a 
contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the 
economic benefits expected to be received under it.  
 
(g)      Leases  
 
(i) Discount rate  
 
The discount rate used to calculate the lease debt corresponds, for each aircraft, to the implicit 
interest rate calculated by the contractual elements and residual market values. The implicit rate of the contract is the discount rate tha t gives the aggregate present value of the minimum lease 
payments and the unguaranteed residual value.  
 
For assets other than aircraft, the estimated lessee's incremental loan rate was used, which is 
derived from the information available on the lease comm encement date, to determine the present 
value of the lease payments. We consider our recent debt issues, as well as publicly available data for instruments with similar characteristics when calculating our incremental borrowing rates.  
 
A decrease of one pe rcentage point in our estimate of the rates used as of January 1, 2019 (the date 
of adoption of the standard) would increase the lease liability by approximately ThUS $ 105 
million.  
 
(ii) Lease term  
 
In determining the term of the lease, all the facts and circumstances that create an economic 
incentive to exercise an extension option are considered. Extension options (or periods after 
termination options) are only included in the term of the lease if you are reasonably certain that the 
lease will be extende d (or not terminated). This is reviewed if a significant event or significant 
change in circumstances occurs that affects this assessment and is within the control of the lessee.  
 
(h) Investment in subsidiary (TAM)  
 
The management has applied its judgment in determining that LATAM Airlines Group S.A. 
controls TAM S.A. and Subsidiaries, for accounting purposes, and has therefore consolidated the 
financial statements.  
 
The grounds for this decision are that LATAM issued ordinary shares in exchange for the maj ority 
of circulating ordinary and preferential shares in TAM, except for those TAM shareholders who did 
not accept the exchange, which were subject to a squeeze out, entitling LATAM to substantially all 
economic benefits generated by the LATAM Group, and t hus exposing it to substantially all risks 
relating to the operations of TAM. This exchange aligns the economic interests of LATAM and all 
of its shareholders, including the controlling shareholders of TAM, thus ensuring that the 
shareholders and directors of TAM shall have no incentive to exercise their rights in a manner that 
would be beneficial to TAM but detrimental to LATAM. Furthermore, all significant actions necessary of the operation of the airlines require votes in favor by the controlling shareho lders of 
both LATAM and TAM.  
Since the integration of LAN and TAM operations, the most critical airline operations in Brazil have been managed by the CEO of TAM while global activities have been managed by the CEO of 
215 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202049 
 
 LATAM, who is in charge of the operatio n of the LATAM Group as a whole and reports to the 
LATAM Board.  
 
The CEO of LATAM also evaluates the performance of LATAM Group executives and, together 
with the LATAM Board, determines compensation. Although Brazilian law currently imposes 
restrictions o n the percentages of voting rights that may be held by foreign investors, LATAM 
believes that the economic basis of these agreements meets the requirements of accounting 
standards in force, and that the consolidation of the operations of LAN and LATAM is a ppropriate.  
 
These estimates were made based on the best information available relating to the matters analyzed.  
 
In any case, it is possible that events that may take place in the future could lead to their modification in future reporting periods, which  would be made in a prospective manner. 
 
 
NOTE 5 - SEGMENTAL INFORMATION  
 
As of December 31, 2020, the Company considers that it has a single operating segment, Air 
Transport. This segment corresponds to the route net work for air transport and is based on the way 
in which the business is managed, according to the centralized nature of its operations, the ability to open and close routes, as well as reassignment (airplanes, crew, personnel, etc.) within the network, which implies a functional interrelation between all of them, making them inseparable.  This 
segment definition is one of the most common in the worldwide airline industry.  
 
The Company’s revenues by geographic area are as follows:  
 
Peru
Argentina
U.S.A.
Europe
Colombia
Brazil
Ecuador
Chile
Asia Pacific and rest of Latin America
Income from ordinary activities
Other operating income378,360
3,923,667
411,002For the year ended
At December 31,
338,565
177,007
1,304,006
112,581
638,2252020
ThUS$
297,549
172,229
505,1452019
1,004,238
726,165
380,449ThUS$
801,965
584,959
872,196
10,070,063
360,8643,949,797
203,334
1,546,960
 
The Company allocates revenues by geographic area based on the poin t of sale of the passenger 
ticket or cargo. Assets are composed primarily of aircraft and aeronautical equipment, which are 
used throughout the different countries, so it is not possible to assign a geographic area.  
The Company has no customers that indivi dually represent more than 10% of sales.  50 
 
 NOTE 6 - CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS  
 
387,885
1,072,5794,277As of 
December 31,
2020 2019
T h US$As of 
December 31,
T h US$
802,220
1,539,075
123,984
156,766
1,695,841  Total cash and cash equivalents    Time deposits
    Total cash equivalents    Total Cash    Overnight    Cash on hand
Cash equivalents
    Mut ual funds 32,782    Bank balances 732,5784,982
329,632
350,080
165,791
222,094684,694
 
Balance include Cash and Cash equivalent from the Group’s Companies that file for Chapter 11. Due to a motion approved by the US bankruptcy court these balance can only be  used on normal 
course of business activities and invested on specific banks also approved on the motion.  
 
Cash and cash equivalents are denominated in the following currencies:  
Currency
TotalColombian peso 
US DollarEuro T h US$ T h US$
Argentine peso
Other currenciesBrazilian real
Chilean peso 20,107
136,938
32,64916,579
197,354
50,521
70,222As of
December 31,
2020As of
December 31,
2019
1,072,57939,755
1,695,84117,185
10,361
1,438,84648,191
21,927
667,785
 
 
216 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202051 
 
 NOTE 7 - FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS  
 
Financial instruments by category  
 
As of December 31, 2020  
 
Other financial liabilities, current
Trade and others accounts payable, currentAccounts payable to related entities, currentOther financial liabilities, non-current4,986
ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$
2,937
 - 3,055,730
2,322,125TotalAt fair value  
with changes 
in results2,383,756
Hedge
 derivatives33,130
Accounts payable, non-current
TotalAssets
LiabilitiesAccounts receivable, non currentOther financial assets, non currentAccounts receivable from related entities, currentTrade and others accounts receivable, currentCash and cash equivalents
Other financial assets, current (*)
Total
Accounts payable to related entities, non-current50,250
599,381
1581,695,841 32,782
348
 - 
 - 
 - 33,140cost in results  derivatives Total
ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$Measured at  At fair value  
amortized with changes Hedge
158  - 
33,140  - 
4,986  - 1,663,059  - 
48,605 1,297
599,381  - 
 - 
14,224,820651,6007,803,801812 -  -  - 
14,230,4912,734
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
2,734 2,937 - 
396,423  -  - 396,423amortizedMeasured at  2,349,329 1,297
2,322,1253,050,059ThUS$cost
 - 
 - 812
7,803,801
651,600
 
 
(*) The value presented as fai r value with changes in the result, corresponds mainly to private 
investment funds; and as measured at amortized cost correspond to guarantees delivered.  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 52 
 
 As of December 31, 2019  
Accounts payable to related entities, current46,907
2,222,874
56
8,530,396
619,110Trade and others accounts payable, currentAssets
Liabilities
Other financial liabilities, current Accounts receivable, non currentOther financial assets, non currentAccounts receivable from related entities, currentTrade and others accounts receivable, currentCash and cash equivalents
Other financial assets, current (*)Measured at  
amortized
cost
ThUS$
1,835,288
13,207,724Accounts payable, non-current
TotalMeasured at  
amortized2,202,770
cost1,244,348
608,763
     accounts payables, current
Other financial liabilities, non currentTotal
ThUS$ - 
 - Hedge
ThUS$with changes 
in results
ThUS$At fair value  
derivatives
222,094
386,669
 - 
 -  - 850,485
36,660
19,645
Hedge
 derivatives
50,3941,885,660
2,222,874
56
8,530,418
619,110
13,258,11850,372
 - 
 - 
22
 - 4,725Total
ThUS$
2,887,708 - 499,504
1,244,348
19,6451,072,579
ThUS$4,72546,907
76,175
Total
ThUS$ - 
 - 76,175 - 
 
(*) The value presented as initial designation as fair value through profit and loss, corresponds 
mainly to  private investment funds; and as measured at amortized cost they correspond to the 
guarantees granted  
 
 
NOTE 8 - TRADE AND OTHER ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE CURRENT, AND NON -       
CURRENT ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE  
 Trade and other accounts receivable, current 1,244,348Total net trade and  accounts receivable 1,249,073
Less: non-current portion – accounts receivable (4,725)604,367
(4,986)
599,381Total trade and other accounts receivable 1,349,475
Less: Expected credit loss (100,402)726,560
(122,193)2019As of
December 31,
Other accounts receivable ThUS$
Trade accounts receivableDecember 31,As of 
275,8761,073,599 532,106
194,4542020
ThUS$
 
217 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202053 
 
 The fair value of trade and other accounts receivable does not differ significantly from the book 
value.  
 
To determine the expected credit losses, the Company groups accounts receivable for passenger and cargo transportation ; depending on the characteristics of shared credit risk and maturity.  
 
(1) Corresponds to the consolidated expected rate of accounts receivable.
(2) The gross book value represents the maximum credit risk value of trade accounts receivables.As of December 31, 2020 As December 31, 2019
Expected Gross book Impairment loss Expected Gross book Impairment loss
Portfolio maturity loss rate (1) value (2) Provision loss rate (1) Provision
% ThUS$ ThUS$ % ThUS$ ThUS$value (2)
Up to date 4% 302,079 (11,112) 2% 875,889 (16,433)
(4,253)
From 91 to 180 days 66% 15,989 (10,501) 28% 16,922 (4,747)From 1 to 90 days 4% 103,615 (4,049) 8% 56,537
(18,459)
more of 360 days 92% 69,802 (63,904) 74% 76,386 (56,510)From 181 to 360 days 80% 40,621 (32,627) 39% 47,865
(100,402) Total 23% 532,106 (122,193) 9% 1,073,599
 
Currency balances composition of the Trade and other accounts receivable and non -current 
accounts receivable are as follow:  
 
Mexican Peso
South African Rand
Uruguayan Peso  (New)
Thai Bht
Russian Ruble
TotalCurrency
6,517
Costa Rican Colon
Other CurrenciesPound Sterling1,292
24,370
292,125
79Colombian PesoArgentine Peso
EuroChilean Peso 
US Dollar
604,36720,964
7,428
1,249,0731,22249
535
1,223754
 - 
77
129
 - Japanese YenSwiss FrancKorean Won
Swedish crown
New Zealand DollarAustralian DollarBrazilian Real
2,288
32,711
436,774
8,172221,952
44,737As of As of 
December 31, December 31,
ThUS$ ThUS$
537,2242019
131,54347,0792020
2,012
1,148
1,390
5,6786,093
2,982
1,375
1,559
8964,624
5,647
 - 
792
 - 
 - 
 54 
 
 The movements of the provision for impairment losses of the  Trade Debtors and other accounts 
receivable are as follows:  
Periodsbalance balanceOpening
Write-offs
T h US$ T h US$ T h US$(Increase)
Decrease
T h US$IFRS  9 (*)
T h US$adjust ment  Closing
From January 1 to December  31, 2020 (100,402)12,569
30,754(97,991) From January 1 to December  31, 2019  - 
 - (122,193)(100,402) (14,980)
(52,545)Adoption
 
Once pre -judicial and judicial collection efforts are exhausted, the assets are written off against the 
allowance. The Company only uses the allowance method rather than direct write -off, to ensure 
control.  
The historical and current renegotiations are not very relevant, and the policy is to analyze case by 
case to classify them according to the existence of risk, determining if their reclassification 
corresponds to pre -judicial collecti on accounts.  
 The maximum credit -risk exposure at the date of presentation of the information is the fair value of 
each one of the categories of accounts receivable indicated above.  
 
(100,402)
275,876  - 973,197
receivableTrade accounts receivable 
Other accounts 532,106
194,454 275,876409,913
194,454(122,193)
 - 1,073,599Gro ss Exposure net G ross  exposure
according to As of December 31, 2019
impaired of risk As of December 31, 2020
according toG ross  exposure
of risk ImpairedGro ss Exposure net
 balance
T h US$ T h US$exposure
T h US$concentrations
T h US$ balance concentrations
T h US$exposure
T h US$
 
 There are no relevant guarantees covering credit risk and these are valued when they a re settled; no 
materially significant direct guarantees exist. Existing guarantees, if appropriate, are made through IATA.  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
218 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202055 
 
 NOTE 9 - ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE FROM/PAYABLE TO RELATED ENTITIES  
 
(a) Accounts Receivable  
Tax No.
Qatar Airways
TAM Aviação Executiva e
   Taxi Aéreo S.A.
Delta Air Lines Inc.
Ltda. y CPA.
*Foreign
Common shareholder Brazil BRL 1  - 
36 - 205 Shareholder U.S.A.
Chile148
6US$
ChileUS$
2 2
Chile CLP 1  - Chile CLP  - 1As of  
2020
ThUS$December 31,
2019
ThUS$As of 
19,400December 31,
Currency
87.752.000-5 Granja Marina Tornagaleones S.A. Common shareholder CLPForeignCountry
Qatar Indirect shareholderRelated party Relationship
Chileof origin
Foreign
Total current assets96.810.370-9 Inversiones Costa Verde 
158 19,645 - Related director CLP 1CLP Related director
96.989.370-3 Rio Dulce S.A. Related director96.782.530-1 Inmobiliaria e Inversiones Asturias S.A. Related director
76.335.600-0 Parque de Chile S.A.
 
(b) Current and non current accounts payable  
Tax No. Currency
Related director
Shareholder
Related director
Related director
Common shareholder
Common shareholder
Common shareholder
 (*)The balance correspond to DIP loan which is explained on Note 3.1 c).Lozuy S.A. (*)Current liabilities Non current liabilities
Foreign QA Investments Ltd (*) Jersey Channel Islands US$  -  - 132,141  - 
Foreign QA Investments 2 Ltd (*) Jersey Channel Islands US$  -  - 132,141  - 
26,428  - 
396,423  -  -  - 
 -  - 
105,713  -  -  - As of As of
December 31, December 31, 
2020 2019
ThUS$ ThUS$
 -  - 
 - 53
32019
ThUS$December 31, 
2020
ThUS$Country December 31, As of As of
of origin Related party Relationship
Foreign Patagonia Seafarms INC78.591.370-1 Bethia S.A. and Subsidiaries  - Chile CLP
805
Inversiones Costa Verde Foreign US$
96.810.370-9Delta Airlines, Inc. U.S.A.
U.S.A. US$ 7
Total current and non current liabilities 56Uruguay US$  - 
812Chile    Ltda. y CPA. (*) CLP  - 
Foreign
 
Transactions between related parties have been carried out on arm´s lenght conditions between 
interested and duly -informed parties. The transaction times for Current and  Non-Current Liabilities, 
they correspond to between 30 to 45 days and 1 to 2 years respectively, and the nature of settlement 
of the transactions is monetary.  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 56 
 
 NOTE 10 - INVENTORIES  
 The composition of Inventories is a s follows:  
Technical stock
Non-technical stock
Total39,165
323,57438,946
354,232ThUS$ ThUS$
284,409 315,286As of As of 
December 31, December 31,
2020 2019
 
 The items included in this item correspond to spare  parts and materials which will be used, mainly, 
in consumptions of on -board services and in own and third -party maintenance services; These are 
valued at their average acquisition cost net of their obsolescence provision according to the 
following detail:  
Provision for obsolescence Technical stock
Provision for obsolescence Non-technical stock
Total4,651
47,63011,610
32,803ThUS$ ThUS$
42,979 21,193As of As of 
December 31, December 31,
2020 2019
 
 The resulting amounts do not exceed the respective net realiz ation values.  
 As of December 31, 2020, the Company registered ThUS$ 55,507 (ThUS$ 133,286 as of December 
31, 2019) in results, mainly related to on -board consumption and maintenance, which is part of the 
Cost of sales.  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
219 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202057 
 
 NOTE 11 - OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS  
 
(a) The composition of other financial assets is as follows:  
 
Private investment funds
Deposits in guarantee (aircraft)
Guarantees for margins of derivatives
Other investments 
Domestic and foreign bonds
Other guarantees given
Accrued Interest since the last payment date
Cross currency swap of currencies
Fair value of interest rate derivatives
Fair value of foreign currency derivatives 
Fair value of fuel price derivatives
Total Other Financial Assets78,8511,296 48,542  -  - 1,296 48,542 - 586  -  -  - 586
50,250 499,504 33,140 46,907 83,390 546,411Subtotal of derivate assets 1,296 76,175  - 2,676 1,296 - 27,044  - 2,676  - 29,720 - 3  -  -  - 3467,560
(b)      Hedging derivate assetSubtotal of other financial assets 48,954 423,329 33,140 44,231 82,094 -  - 493 494 493 494
18 19  -  - 18 19
43,106 6,507 11,149 15,138 54,255 21,6453,047 21,200  -  - 3,047 21,200(a)      Other financial assets
2,435 8,934 21,498 28,599 23,933 37,533348 386,669  -  - 348 386,669ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31,Current Assets Non-current assets Total Assets
As of As of As of As of As of As of
 
The different derivative hedging contracts maintained by the Company at the end of each fiscal year 
are described in Note 19.  
(b) The balances composition by currencies of the Other financial assets are as follows:  
2019 2020As of
December 31,As of
December 31,
Type of currency
ThUS $ ThUS $
500 522Argentine peso 460 94
Chilean peso 4,056 26,073Brazilian real 8,475 417,477
Colombian peso
Total 83,390 546,411Other currencies 2,741 2,7323,236 1,525
U.S.A dollar 63,922 97,988Euro
 58 
 
 NOTE 12 - OTHER NON -FINANCIAL ASSETS  
The composition of other non -financial assets is as follows:  
 
Aircraft insurance and other
Others
GDS co st s
Credit card commissions
Travel agencies commissions
Aircraft maintenance reserve (2)
Sales tax
Other taxes
Contributions to the International Aeronautical
Telecommunications Society ("SITA")
Judicial deposits
Total Other Non - Financial Assets202,6678,613 27,987
 -  - 4,023Subtotal advance payments 15,476 56,576  -  - 15,476 56,576
17,844 8,613 45,831(c)   Other assets
34,295 -  - 4,491 16,593
6,021 23,437  -  - 6,021 23,437
4,964 16,546  -  - 4,964 16,546(a)   Advance paymentsDecember 
2019 2019December December December December 
T h US$ T h US$2020 2020 2019
T h US$ T h US$ T h US$
11,702 10,137
28,70118,373 16,999 - 15,375 15,167 2,998
Subtotal advance payments 25,512 26,346
(b)   Contract assets (1)
4,491 16,593  - 
 - 2,998
Subtotal other assets 114,904 230,527 123,784 202,573 238,688 433,100
518,377997
 -  - 76,835 149,310 76,835 149,310258 258 739 739 997
155,892 313,449 126,782 204,928 282,67411,179  - 523 10,137
102,010 167,987 46,210 34,680 148,220
4,023 34,2951,832Non-current assets Current assets T otal Assets
As of As of As of As of As of
T h US$As of
December 
2020
2,355 28,510
 
(1)  Movement of Contracts assets:
From January 1 to
December 31, 2019 
From January 1 to
December 31, 2020Cummulat ive
translation
Final balance
T h US$ T h US$ T h US$ T h US$ T h US$Initial balance Activation adjust ment Amortization
48,957 166,300 (4,950) (153,731) 56,576
15,476 56,576 146,778 (14,672) (173,206)  
  
(2) Aircraft maintenance reserves reflect prepayment deposits made by the group to lessors of 
certain aircraft under operating lease agreements in order to ensure that funds ar e available to 
support the scheduled heavy maintenance of the aircraft.  
 
These deposits are calculated based on the operation, measured in cycles or flight hours, are paid 
periodically, and it is contractually stipulated that they be returned to the Compa ny each time major 
maintenance is carried out. At the end of the lease, the unused maintenance reserves are returned to the Company or used to compensate the lessor for any debt related to the maintenance conditions of 
the aircraft.  
 
220 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202059 
 
 In some cases, (2 leas e agreements), if the maintenance cost incurred by LATAM is less than the 
corresponding maintenance reserves, the lessor is entitled to retain those excess amounts at the time 
the heavy maintenance is performed. The Company periodically reviews its mainten ance reserves 
for each of its leased aircraft to ensure that they will be recovered and recognizes an expense if any 
such amounts are less than probable of being returned. The cost of aircraft maintenance in the last 
years has been higher than the related maintenance reserves for all aircraft.  
 As of December 31, 2020, maintenance reserves amount to ThUS$ 8,613 (ThUS$ 45,831 as of 
December 31, 2019), corresponding to 2 aircraft that maintain remaining balances, which will be settled in the next maintenance or return.  
 Aircraft maintenance reserves are classified as current or non -current depending on the dates when 
the related maintenance is expected to be performed (Note 2.23).  
 
 
NOTE 13 - NON -CURRENT ASSETS AND DISPOSAL GROUP CLASSIFIED AS HELD FOR 
SALE   
Non-current assets and disposal group classified as held for sale at December 31 , 2020 and 
December 31, 2019, are detailed below:  
Current assetsT h US$
482,806
1,943T h US$
740275,000
485,150 -  - 2019As of
December 31,As of
December 31,
2020
Engines and rotablesAircraft
Total 276,122Other assets 382 401
 
The ba lances are presented at the lower of book value and fair value less cost to sell.  The fair value 
of these assets was determined based on quoted prices in active markets for similar assets or liabilities. This is a level II measurement as per the fair value  hierarchy set out in Note 3.3 (2). 
There were no transfers between levels for recurring fair value measurements during the year.  
Assets r eclassified from Property, plant and equipment to Non -current assets or groups of assets for 
disposal classified as he ld for sale.  
During 2019, four Airbus A350, aircraft two Boeing 767, were reclassified from Property, plants and equipment to Non -current assets or groups of assets for disposal classified as held for sale.  
Additionally, during the same year 2019, the sale  of one motor spare Boeing 767 and one Boeing 
767 aircraft were materialized. As a result of the above, during 2019, adjustments for US $ 2 
million of expense were recognized to record these assets at their net realizable value.  
During the year 2020, the s ale of a Boeing 767 aircraft took place and therefore US $ 5.5 million 
was recognized as profit from the transaction.  60 
 
 Additionally, during the year 2020, Delta Air Lines, Inc. canceled the purchase of four Airbus A350 
aircraft, given this, LATAM was compen sated with the payment of ThUS $ 62,000, which was 
recorded in the income statement as other income. These four aircraft were reclassified to Property, plant and equipment.  
 
During 2020, eleven Boeing 767 aircraft were transferred from the Property, plant and equipment 
item, to the Non -current assets item or groups of assets for disposal classified as held for sale.  
 
Additionally, during the year 2020, adjustments for US $ 332 million of were recognized in income statement to adjust the assets to its fair v alue less the cost of sales, which were recorded the income 
statements as part of the expenses of restructuring activities.  
 
The detail of the fleet classified as non -current assets and disposal group classified as held for sale 
is as follows:  
Total 11 54 Airbus A350 -AircraftAs of
1As of
2020 2019December 31, December 31,
Boeing 767 11
 
 
 
NOTE 14 - INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES  
 
(a) Investments in subsidiaries  
The Company has investments in companies recognized as investments in subsidiaries. All the companies defined as subsidiari es have been consolidated within the financial statements of 
LATAM Airlines Group S.A. and Subsidiaries. The consolidation also includes special -purpose 
entities.  
Detail of significant subsidiaries:  
Name of  si gni f i cant subsi di ar y i ncor por ati on cur r ency
Aer ovías de I ntegr aci ón Regi onal , AI RES S.A. COP
TAM S .A. Col ombi a
BRL Bra z ilLan Ar genti na S.A.
Tr anspor te Aér eo S.A.
L at am  A i r l i nes E cuador  S.A .ARS Ar genti na
Ch ile
EcuadorUS $
US $Lan Car go S.A.Countr y of
US $
US $P e ru
Ch ileFuncti onal D ecem ber  31 ,
70.00000 L at am  A i r l i nes Per ú S.A .% %Owner shi p
As  of
201 9As  of
2020D ecem ber  31 ,
99.81 000
99.89395
99.98370
1 00.00000
1 00.0000099.89395
99.98370
99.1 941 4
99.99938 99.999381 00.00000
1 00.00000
99.1 941 4
 
 The consolidated subsidiaries do not have significant restrictions for transferring funds to the 
controling entity in  the normal course of operations, except for those imposed by Chapter 11 of the 
United States Bankruptcy Law, on dividend payments prior to the application for protection.  
221 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202061 
 
 Aerovías de Integración Regional, AIRES S.A.108,086
76,770347,714(96,066)
104,534 3,552 99,538 87,437 12,101
73,446 3,324 77,471 68,433 9,038372,255
207,854
49,101
142,096
51,205
90,66810,936
(220,667)
(39,032)
(22,655)
 ended December 31, 2019
T h US$Total
Liabilities
T h US$Current
Liabilities
T h US$ T h US$Total3,110,055
Lan Cargo S.A. 634,852 334,725 300,127 398,872 63,794 274,7741,808,314 3,004,935 TAM S.A. (*) 1,492,792 1,617,263 2,206,089 798,846
1,186,668 510,672T h US$S tatement of financial position as of December 31, 2019
(4,157)(1,739) Latam Airlines Perú S.A. 519,363 481,592 37,771 508,541 2,131
462,666Lan Argentina S.A. 171,613 5,177 146,555 2,269 148,824
Transporte Aéreo S.A. 264,690 281,526 278,319 69,395176,790
546,216T h US$ T h US$
Lan Cargo S.A. 472,869 276,920 516,985 50,143 567,128629,910 31,811 484,450 1,648 486,098 661,721
749,789Total Current Non-current Total Current Non-current    Net
Assets Assets Assets Liabilities Liabilities Liabilities Revenue    Income/(loss)
T h US$T h US$ T h US$ T h US$
(1,025,618)Summary financial information of significant subsidiaries 
Aerovías de Integración Regional, AIRES S.A.Latam Airlines Perú S.A.
Latam Airlines Ecuador S.A.T h US$
Income for the year
Current
AssetsNon-current
Name of significant subsidiary                Assets LiabilitiesNon-current
AssetsIncome for the year
S tatement of financial position as of December 31, 2020  ended December 31, 2020
Name of significant subsidiary                
Latam Airlines Ecuador S.A. 99,019 95,187T h US$    T h US$
Lan Argentina S.A. 262,049 255,641 6,408 86,912 2,158 218,989 (133,408) 89,070   T h US$Revenue   Net
   Income/(loss)
T h US$
Transporte Aéreo S.A. 359,335 101,128 258,207 46,383 96,040 315,105 14,610 142,423(89,707)
(3,099)
TAM S.A. (*) 5,036,864 2,580,665 2,456,199 2,556,280 941,279 5,013,293 185,720 3,497,559187,001 135,344 51,657 70,643 8,347 291,235 78,9903,832 86,810 10,388 229,797 (3,411) 97,198
 
(*) Corresponds to consolidated information of TAM S.A. and subsidiaries  
222 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202062 
 
 (b)  Non -controlling interest  
Tota l ( 9,648) 5,1 83Mu ltip lu s  S . A. (*) 0-E Bra z il  -  - 5,726A er ol í neas Regi onal es de I nt egr aci ón A i r es S.A . 0-E Col ombi a 0.79880 ( 724)
Tr anspor tes Aer eos del  M er cosur  S.A. 0-E Par aguay0.79880
5.02000 5.02000 ( 1 89)Amer i consul t  S.A. and Subsi di ar i es 0-E M ex i co 0.20000 1 0.20000
L i nea A ér ea Car guer a de Col om bi ana S.A . 0-E Col ombi a 9.54000 ( 943) 1 0.00000Lan Ar genti na S.A. 0-E Ar genti na 0.00344 70 0.00344I nver sor a Cor di l l er a S.A. and Subsi di ar i es 0-E Ar genti na 0.01 630 360 4.22000Lan Car go S.A. and Subsi di ar i es 93.383.000-4 Ch ile 0.1 01 96 (12 1) 0.1 01 96L at am  A i r l i nes Per ú S.A              0-E P e ru 0.1 9000% ThUS $201 9
%
30.00000I ncomes D ecem ber  31 , D ecem ber  31 , Countr y D ecem ber  31 ,For  the year  ended
Ta x  No. of  or i gi n 2020 2020Tota l ( 6,672) ( 1 ,605)
For  the year  ended899
1 ,503 Tr anspor tes Aer eos del  M er cosur  S.A. 0-E Par aguay 5.02000 5.02000 7 13A er ol í neas Regi onal es de I nt egr aci ón A i r es S.A . 0-E Col ombi a 0.79880 0.79880 (13 )50
A m er i consul t  de Guat em al a S.A . 0-E Guat em al a 0.87000 0.87000 1
L i nea A ér ea Car guer a de Col om bi ana S.A . 0-E Col ombi a 9.54000 1 0.00000 ( 522)2
( 755)A m er i consul t  Cost a Ri ca S.A . 0-E Costa Rica 0.20000 0.20000 2As  of As  of As  of
L at am  A i r l i nes Per ú S.A              0-E P e ru 0.1 9000 30.00000% % ThUS $Ta x  No. of  or i gi n 2020Equi ty
( 7,238)
6662,609
369Countr yAs  of
1D ecem ber  31 , D ecem ber  31 , D ecem ber  31 ,
201 9 2020D ecem ber  31 ,
201 9
ThUS $
Ar genti na 0.01 630 0.01 630
-201 9
ThUS $
( 1 ,065)
19
359
48
(7 )
( 293)
( 24)
420( 8,1 02)Lan Car go S.A. and Subsi di ar i es 93.383.000-4 Ch ile 0.1 01 96 0.1 01 96
Amer i consul t  S.A. and Subsi di ar i es 0-E M ex i co 0.20000 0.20000 (6 ) (7 )( 6,276) I nver sor a Cor di l l er a S.A. and Subsi di ar i es 0-E ( 276)
Lan Ar genti na S.A. 0-E Ar genti na 0.00344 0.00344 1
 
(*) See Note 1 letter (b)  
 
223 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202063 
 
 NOTE 15 - INTANGIBLE ASSETS OTHER THAN GOODWILL  
 
The details of intangible assets are as follows:  
Tota l 1 ,046,559 1 ,448,241 1 ,470,951 1 ,91 8,298Ot her  asset s 228 331 1, 3 15 1, 3 15Tra d e ma rks  (1) 6,340 1 7,959 39,803 51 ,326Loyal ty pr ogr am 204,61 5 263,806 204,61 5 263,806Ai r por t sl ots 627,742 845,959 627,742 845,959
Devel opi ng sof twar e 68,521 99,1 93 69,379 99,1 93Computer  sof twar e 13 9 , 113 220,993 528,097 656,699ThUS $ ThUS $ ThUS $ ThUS $D ecem ber  31 , D ecem ber  31 , D ecem ber  31 , D ecem ber  31 ,
2020 201 9 2020 201 9Cl asses of  i ntangi bl e assets Cl asses of  i ntangi bl e assets 
(n e t) (g ro s s )
As  of As  of As  of As  of
 
Movement in Intangible assets other than goodwill : 
Cl osi ng bal ance as of December 31 ,  201 9
Closing balance as of December 31 , 2020(46,996)
Am o rtiza tio n (70,1 07) - - (1 0,404) ( 8 0 , 5 11)
221 ,324 99,1 93 845,959 281 ,765 1 ,448,2411 39,236
Withdrawals (270) (1 ,1 23) - - (1 ,393)
Trans fer s o ftware 1 36,935 (1 40,1 02) - - (3,1 67)Opening balance as of January 1 , 201 9 1 56,469 1 51 ,853 828,969 303,781 1 ,441 ,072Computer
s o ftware
and others Net
ThUS $ ThUS $Total
ThUS $s o ftwareAirpo rt
 sl ots ( 2)
ThUS $a nd lo ya lty Developing
pro gram (1 ) ( 2)
ThUS $Trademarks
1 ,448,241
Additions 45 76,331 - - 76,376Opening balance as of January 1 , 2020 221 ,324 99,1 93 845,959 281 ,765Additions 278 91 ,371 47,587 -
Foreign exchange (1 ,981 ) (2,806) (30,597) ( 11, 6 12 )
(37,683)
Trans fer s o ftware 10 1, 0 15 (99,890) - - 1, 12 5
(63,478) (271 ,700) Foreign exchange (20,242) (6,659) (1 81 ,321 )Withdrawals (333) (454) (36,896) -
1 39,341 68,521 627,742 21 0,955 1 ,046,559Am o rtiza tio n (1 62,468) - - (7,332) (1 69,800)
 
 
(1) In 2016, the Company resolved to adopt a unique name and identity, and announced that the 
group's brand will be LATAM, which united all the companies under a single image.  
The estimate of the new useful life is 5  years, equivalent to the period necessary to complete the 
change of image.  
(2) See Note 2.5  
(3) In 2020, a digital transformation was implemented (LATAM XP), as a result some projects 
became obsolete and were fully amortized. 
For further detail on impairm ent test see Note 16.  
The amortization of each period is recognized in the consolidated income statement in the 
administrative expenses. The cumulative amortization of computer programs, brands and other 64 
 
 assets as of December 31, 2020, amounts to ThUS $ 42 4,932 (ThUS $ 470,057 as of December 31, 
2019).  
 
 NOTE 16 - GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS OF INDEFINITE USEFUL LIFE  
 During the year 2020, the Company, as a result of what is desc ribed below, has recognized an 
impairment for the total Goodwill. As of December 31, 2019, its value was ThUS $ 2,209,576.  
 
Movement of Goodwill, separated by CGU:
 Opening balance as of January 1, 2019
Increase (decrease) due to exchange rate differences
Transfer from Multiplus S .A. (see nota 1)
Closing balance as of December 31, 2019
 Opening balance as of January 1, 2020
Increase (decrease) due to exchange rate differences
Impairment loss
Closing balance as of December 31, 2020
 Transport Multiplus Total
T h US$ T h US$ T h US$
- - -431,573 (431,573) -1,845,136 448,936 2,294,072
(67,133) (17,363) (84,496)Coalition
programand loyalty 
Air 
2,209,576 - 2,209,576
(1,728,975) - (1,728,975)2,209,576 2,209,576 -
(480,601) - (480,601)
 As of December 31, 2020, the Company maintains only the CGU “Air Transport”, due to the 
merger of Multiplus S.A. in TAM Linhas Aereas in the year 2019 (see Note 1), and changes in t he 
management structure.  
 
The CGU “Air Transport” considers the transport of passengers and cargo, both in the domestic 
markets of Chile, Peru, Argentina, Colombia, Ecuador and Brazil, as well as in a series of regional 
and international routes in America,  Europe, Africa and Oceania.  
 As of March 31, 2020 LATAM Airlines Group S.A. maintained a suspension of a large part of the 
operation and as a result of the impacts mentioned in Note 2 associated with COVID 19, 
impairment indicator were identified that led  the Company to carry out an impairment test. 
Impairment indicator identified were: Increase in uncertainty about pandemic (on the economic and 
health situation, the lengths of the crisis, the extent of the closure of operations, among others), 
increase in  market interest rates, fall in share price and decrease in operations.  
 The recoverable amount of the CGU was determined based on calculations of the value in use. 
These calculations use projections of 5 years cash flows after taxes from the financial bud gets 
approved by the Administration. Cash flows beyond the budgeted period are extrapolated using 
growth rates and estimated average volumes, which do not exceed long -term average growth rates.  
 
Management’s cash flow projections included significant judge ments and assumptions related to 
annual revenue growth rates, discount rate, inflation rates, the exchange rate and price of fuel. The 
annual revenue growth rate is based on past performance and management’s expectations of market 
development in each of th e countries in which it operates. The discount rates used, for the CGU 
"Air Transport", are in determined in US dollars, after taxes, and reflect specific risks related to the relevant countries of each of the operations. Inflation rates and exchange rates  are based on the data 
224 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202065 
 
 available from the countries and the information provided by the Central Banks of the various 
countries where it operates, and the price of fuel is determined based on estimated levels of 
production, the competitive environment of th e market in which they operate and their commercial 
strategy.  
 As of March 31, 2020 the recoverable values were determined using the following assumptions 
presented below:  
 
Exchange rate (1)
Discount rate based on the weighted average 
  cost of capital (WACC) (2)
Fuel Price from futures price curves 
commodities markets
(1) In line w ith the expectations of the Central Bank of Brazil
(2) As a result of the distortion generated by the current contingency in market rates, a 
multi-period WACC wasused foreach oftheyears oftheprojection, starting at19.4%
for the first year and reaching 8.0% from the Third year onw ard.Annual growth rate (Terminal)
US$/barrel 52-758.0 - 19.4 %R$ /US$ 4.8 - 5.2Air transportation
CGU
% 1.1
 
 
WACC sensitivity  
 At using a single rate the possible impairment scenario  will be as follow:  
 
 
WACC   
Actual  
MUS$   
7.5%  
MUS$   
8.0%  
MUS$   
9.0%  
MUS$   
10.0%  
MUS$  
Excess 
(Impairment)   
(1,716)   
381  
(564)   
(2,095)   
(3,280)  
 
 
The estimated recoverable amount as of March 31, 2020 of ThUS $ 9,398 was compared to the net 
book values of the cash -generating unit on the same date, resulting in an impairment lo ss of             
MUS $ 1,729. The total amount was recognized in the consolidated statement of income under Other gains (losses). There were no additional amounts of impairment that needed to be adjusted to other non -financial assets.  
 As of December 31, 2020, in accordance with its accounting policy, the Company performed the 
annual impairment test. Compared to the test carried out as of March 31, 2020, the only methodological difference is that a single discount rate (WACC) was used again for all periods , and 
the uncertainty that exists in the current market was incorporated into multiple probability -weighted 
scenarios.  
 
 
  
 
 66 
 
 As of December 31, 2020, the recoverable values were determined using the following 
assumptions:  
           
                                  Air Transportation  
 
           
                                  CGU  
 
           
                                               Annual growth rate (terminal)  
              % 0.6-1.6 
  Exchange rate (1)  
                        R$/US$  5.4 – 5.6 
  Discount rate based on weighted average cost  
                         of capital (WACC - Weighted Average Cost of Capital)  % 8.65-9.65 
  Fuel price from future price  
                            curves of the commodity markets.  
           US$/barr il 60 - 78 
 
           
                                               (1) In line with the expectations of the Central Bank of Brazil.  
(2) The ranges incorporate the variables of the multiple 
probability -weighted scenarios.  
                                                                            
The result of the impairment test, which includes a sensitivity analysis of its principal assumptions, 
conclude that the calculated value in use exceed the book value of the assets net of the cash -
generating unit, an d therefore no impairment was detected.  
 The CGU is sensitive to annual growth, discount and exchange rates. The analysis of sensitivity 
included the individual impact of variations in critical assumptions when determine the value in use, 
as follow:  
                 
Increase  
  Decrease rate  
 
                WACC  
  terminal growth  
 
                Maximum  
  minimal  
                                        
                % 
  % 
 Air Transportation CGU  
 9.65 
  0.6 
                                         In none of the above scenarios an impairment of the cash -generating unit was identified.  
 
225 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202067 
 
 NOTE 17 - PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT  
 
The composition by category of Property, plant and equipment is as follows:  
 
       Other assets 244,847 255,149 (176,570) (153,991) 68,277 101,158Subtotal Properties, plant and equipment 14,108,692 15,215,955 (5,784,742) (5,166,035) 8,323,950 10,049,92074,4085,20549,19914,831(5,088,297)(5,292,429)(58,629)
(105,215)(132,923)42,979-
-
(58,626)
(4,630,001)
(4,421,211)
(208,790)
(28,441)
(141,216)
(111,635)-
-
10,730,269372,589
5,217515,6928,847,3519,363,04374,86248,406
2,869,6982,768,54098,4606,73359,83420,776
12,919,6182,406,3192,338,042377,961
3,416403,5417,287,2037,690,74465,207
(7,989,890)(60,327)
(135,789)
(2,669,864)
(2,823,855) (3,208,047)(3,031,477)(23,986)(204,132)
20,909,508724,482
33,658
161,992
171,469
67,060
234,249
5,438,404Buildings
Plant and equipment
Information technology equipment
Fixed installations and accessories
Motor vehicles
Leasehold improvements
b) Right of use       Own aircraft (3) (4)
       Other (2)
Machinery
TotalAs of As of
December 31, December 31,
2020 2019
(8,992,789)(127,420)(44,140)As of
December 31,
2020
ThUS$
372,589
48,406
133,488
13,993,044
13,268,562
5,693,553      Aircraft (3)
Subtotal Right of useNet Book Value
As of
December 31,
2019
ThUS$As of As of
December 31, December 31,
2020 2019
ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$Gross Book Value Accumulated depreciation
49,345
201,828
5,369,519
5,614,366
19,723,058123,836
12,983,173
12,375,500
607,673
27,402
147,754
154,414a) Property, plant and equipment
42,979377,961 Construction in progress (1)
Land
(1)   As of December 31 , 2020,  includ es advances paid to aircraft manufacturers for ThUS$ 360,387 (ThUS$ 348,148 as of December 
31, 2019)  
(2)  Consider mainly rotables and tools.  
(3)  As of December 31, 2020, due to the process of Chapter 11, 29 aircraft lease contract were rejected, 19 were  presented as to Property, 
plant and equipment, (2 A350, 11 A321, 1 A320, 1 A320N and 4 B787) and 10 were presented as to right of use assets, (1 A319, 7 A320 
and 2 B767).  
(4) As of December 31, 2020, eleven B767 aircraft were classified as non -current as sets or groups of assets for disposal as held for sale.  
226 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202068 
 
 (a)  Movement in the different categories of Property, plant and equipment:  
 
-
Opening balance as of January 1 , 2020
Closing balance as of December 31 , 2020(1 ,081 ,496) - - - (82) (1 ,081 ,578)
   Other i ncreases (decreases) (* * ) 1 ,477 1 - (1 42,1 79) 656 8,869 - (4,841 ) (1 36,01 7)   Depreci ati on ex penses(39) - -20,776 59,834 477 98,460
   Rej ecti on fl eet (* ) -1 0,049,920( 11, 17 5 ) (1 57) 15 , 19 3 96,555 (1 ,788)
372,589 48,406 74,862 9,374,51 6   Changes, total (257,731 ) 2,982 (37,703) 386,934
Cl osi ng bal ance as of December 31 ,  201 9(2,007) (1 25) (432) (30,770) (234)
538 2,903 - - (727,708)   Foreign exchange (1 ,340) (1 ,1 03) ( 9 14 ) (24,61 5)
   Other i ncreases (decreases) (278,255) (3,837) (30,974) (41 8,083)(8,574) (1 1 ,945) (94) (1 9,001 ) (821 ,607)(77) - (362) (65,382) (85)
   Depreci ati on ex penses - - (5,768) (776,225)   Retirements (20) - - (64,838)( 13 ) (75) ( 11) - ( 2 4 , 119 )26 73 34,988 1 ,766,1 41 6,580
   Dis po s a ls - (28) (47) (23,945)   Additions 21 ,884 7,950 - 1 ,694,64022,564 71 ,009 634 83,267 9,953,365 630,320 45,424 1 1 2,565 8,987,582 Opening balance as of January 1 , 201 9ThUS $ ThUS $ ThUS $ ThUS $net
ThUS $ ThUS $ ThUS $ ThUS $ ThUS $&  accessori es vehi cl es improvements equipment
in progress La nd net net net netConstruction Buildings equipment equipment
net netL easehol dP ro perty,
P lant andInfo rmatio n F ixe d
P lant and technology ins ta lla tio ns Motor
372,589 48,406 74,862 9,374,51 6 20,776 59,834 477 98,460 1 0,049,920
   Dis po s a ls6,535 - - 485,800 1 ,295 9 - - 493,639    Additions
(1 ,586)
(1 07,91 2) (55) (3,250) (1 1 1 ,256)    Retirements- - - (1 ,439) ( 112 ) ( 3 1) (4) -
- -
(71 8,767)
(2,601 ) (5,428) (4,836) (1 46,21 9) (1 ,543) (7,1 95) 4 (2,587) (1 70,405)    Foreign exchange- - (4,81 9) (682,1 02) (6,1 86) (9,037) ( 8 1) (1 6,542)
5,372 (5,427) (9,655) (1 ,675,547) (5,945) (1 0,635) ( 8 1) (24,052)    Changes, total (1 ,725,970)
377,961 42,979 65,207 7,698,969 1 4,831 49,1 99 396 74,408 8,323,950
 
(*)    Include aircraft lease rejection  due to Chapter 11 process.  
(**) Include the reclassification of 4 A350 aircraft that were incorporated on property plant  and equipment from available for sale for 
TH$464,812 and the reclassification of 11 B767 aircraft that were moved to available for sales for Th$606,522 (see note 13) .
227 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202069 
 
 (b) Right of use assets:  
Addit ions
Depreciation expense
Cummulative translate adjustment
Other increases (decreases)
Total changes
Addit ions
Fleet rejection (*)
Write off
Depreciation expense
Cummulative translate adjustment
Other increases (decreases)
Total changes2,548,444
Final balances as of December 31, 2019 321,254(40,325) 13,360 (26,965)
-2,869,698
- 399 399(4,561) (2,515) (2,046)(377,911)732,489
(400,384) (22,473)753,164of use
assets
T h US $ T h US $Aircraft Others
T h US $Net  right
2,456,333 92,111
(395,936) (22,492)Opening balances as of January 1, 2020 2,768,540 101,15820,675
2,768,5409,047
101,158
Final balances as of December 31, 2020- -312,207Opening balances as of January 1, 2019
(18,509)
(32,881) (463,379)
2,406,319 2,338,042 68,277(18,894) 385
(430,498)(17,751)2,869,698
(6,578) (11,173)(418,428)(9,090) - (9,090)
 
 
(*) Include aircraft lease rejection due to Chapter 11 process.  
 
(c) Composition of the fleet  
(1) (1) (1) (1)
(2) (2) (2) (2)
Total
(1) One aircraft leased to Aerotransportes Mas de Carga S.A. de C.V.
(2) Two aircraft leased to Sundair.Boeing 787 900 2 6 10 10 12 16Boeing 787 800 6 6 4 4 10 10Aircraft included 
in Property, as Right s Total
plant and equipment of use assets fleet
As of As of As of As of As of As ofAircraft included 
30Aircraft Model December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31,
2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019
Boeing 767 300ER
202 227 98 110 300 337Airbus A350 900 4 2 7 7 11Airbus A321 200 19 30 19 19 49
9Airbus A320 200 96 96 38 46 134 142
Airbus A320 NEO 617 28
4612
Boeing 777 300ER 4 4 6 6 10 10
387 6 6 12 13Airbus A319 100 37 37 7 9 44Boeing 767 300F 11 11 1 1 12- 2 17
 
 
 
228 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202070 
 
 (d) Method used for the depreciation o f Property, plant and equipment:  
 
minimum maximum
Assets for rights of use Straight line without residual valueUseful life (years)
20 50
1 255 30
5 10
10 10 Straight line without residual value
Straight line without residual value
Straight line without residual value10 10
5 8Method
Straight line without residual value
  short-haul fleet and 36% in the long-haul fleet. (*)
Straight line without residual valueS traight line w ith residual value of 20% in theBuildings
Information technologyPlant and equipment
equipment
Fixed installations and accessories
Motor vehicle
Leasehold improvements
 
(*) Except in the case of the Boeing 767 300ER and Boeing 767 300F fleets that consider a lower 
residual value, due to the extension of their useful life to 22 and 30 years respectively. Additionally, certain technical components are depreciated based on cycle s and hours flown.  
 
(e)  Additional information regarding Property, plant and equipment:  
 (i)      Property, plant and equipment pledged as guarantee:  
 Description of Property, plant and equipment pledged as guarantee:  
Airbus A350
Total direct guarantee271 ,1 29 282,927 384,224 375,645
 - 95,1 48
30,733 28,1 27 83,281 67,882
296,441
 -  - 
 -  - Bank Of Utah 262,420 289,946
I nvestec Aircraft and engines Airbus A320 / A350 37,870  - Aircraft and engines Airbus A320 / A350
Na tixis
Airbus A31 9 27,936 38,836 Citibank N.A.Aircraft and engines Airbus A3212020
Guarantee
agent (1 )As of
December 31 ,
Boeing 767 43,628
Citibank N.A. Aircraft and engines Boeing 787ThUS $201 9
Exis ting
Debt
ThUS $Exis ting Book
Debt Va lue
ThUS $As of
December 31 ,
Fl eetBook
Va lue
ThUS $
Aircraft and engines Airbus A31 9Commi tted
AssetsCreditor
company
452,1 0763,581 257,61 3Wilm ingto n
70,644 256,651
Wilm ingto n  -  - 353,7741 27,283M UF G
Trust Company69,375
Airbus A320
2,755,034 3,766,03274,71 3 256,937
2,350,405268,746
3,371 ,878Aircraft and engines
Airbus A31 9
Airbus A320Aircraft and enginesAirbus A3211 80,591 61 ,728 1 96,244
Boeing 787 1 1 4,936
Boeing 7871 1 9,229 1 20,938
 -  - 1 43,475
1 0,404
91 ,797 43,020 74,0231 91 ,804
C re dit Agric o le
1 39,1 92 1 22,2511 ,073
32,802Airbus A321  / A350
Boeing 767
 - Airbus A320 1 28,030Aircraft and engines
21 4,597
Airbus A321 41 ,599 81 ,70644,088C re dit Agric o le
BNP Pari bas
259,93485,986
378,462 - 
36,5946,936
1 0,404 - 
Boeing 787 21 1 ,849 246,349 21 7,50035,226Trust Company Boeing 787  -  - 332,1 31 374,998
 -  - 1 80,320 1 92,620
U MB Bank M UF G Aircraft and engines Airbus A320 1 67,371 246,293 1 06,250 1 49,607
MU FG Bank Aircraft and engines Airbus A320 21 5,043 295,036 21 6,41 1 31 0,31 1 MU FG BankRotables 1 62,477 1 45,708  -  -  -  - 
Airbus A350
Airbus B7671 5,960 26,823  -  - 
90,846 1 97,797
Airbus B787 23,1 56 1 9,047  -  -  -  - SMBC Aircraft and engines Airbus A350 1 30,000 1 34,780  -  - 
Na tixis
Citibank N.A.
 
(1)  For the syndicated loans, is the Guarantee Agent that, repres ent different creditors.  
 71 
 
 (2) As of December 31, 2020, four A350 aircraft were reincorporated to Property, plant and 
equipment due to cancellation of the sale contract, wich were classified previously as Non -current 
assets or groups of assets for disposal as held for sale.  
The amounts of the current debt are presented at their nominal value. The net book value corresponds to the assets granted as collateral. 
 
Additionally, there are indirect guarantees associated with assets registered in properties, plants  and 
equipment whose total debt as of December 31, 2020, amounts to ThUS$ 1,642,779 (ThUS$ 1,762,611 as of December 31, 2019). The book value of the assets with indirect guarantees as of December 31, 2020, amounts to ThUS$ 3,496,397 (ThUS$ 3,866,237 as of December 31, 2019).  
 As of December 31, 2020, given the Chapter 11 process, nineteen aircraft corresponding to 
Property, plant and equipment were rejected, of which eighteen had direct guarantees and one 
indirect guarantee.  
 
As of December 31, 2020, the Co mpany keeps valid letters of credit related to assets by right of use 
according to the following detail:  
 
Creditor Guarantee
Avolon Aerospace AOE 62 Limited Latam Airlines Group S.A. Seven letters of credit
Bank of Utah Latam Airlines Group S.A. One letter of credit
GE Capital Aviation Services Ltd. Latam Airlines Group S.A. Three letters of credit
ORIX Aviation Systems Limited Latam Airlines Group S.A. Three letters of credit
Wells Fargo Bank Latam Airlines Group S.A. Six letters of credit
BBAM Latam Airlines Group S.A. Two letters of credit
Merlin Aviation Leasing (Ireland) 18 Limited Tam Linhas Aéreas S.A. Two letters of credit
RB Comercial Properties 49 
Empreendimentos Imobiliarios LTDA Tam Linhas Aéreas S.A. One letter of creditDebt or
27,193     
70,807         11,870     Feb 04, 2021
3,852       Mar 15, 202112,198     Jan 20, 2021Type T h US$ dat e
8,445       Nov 26, 20213,554       Feb 05, 2021
2,000       Mar 24, 2021Value Release
Apr 29, 20211,695       Jan 14, 2021
 (ii) Commitments and others  
 Fully depreciated assets and commitments for future purchases are as follows:   
As of
December 31, December 31,As of
ThUS$ ThUS$2020 2019
261,792
7,390,000206,497
7,500,000Gross book value of fully depreciated property,
 plant and equipment still in use 
Commitments for the acquisition of aircraft (*)
 
 (*) According to the manufacturer’s price list.  
  
 
 
229 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202072 
 
 Purchase commitment of aircraft  
Manufacturer 
Air bus S.A.S.
     A320-NEO Family
     A350 Family 
The Boeing Company
     Boeing 787-9
Total6
5044
42
2
5066 6244
42Year of delivery
Total 2021-2026
 
As of December 31, 2020, as a result of the different air craft purchase contracts signed with Airbus 
SAS, 42 Airbus A320 family aircraft remain to be received with deliveries between 2020 and 2024 
and 2 Airbus aircraft of the A350 family with delivery dates. by 2026. The approximate amount, 
according to the manu facturer's list prices, is ThUS $ 5,700,000.  
 
As of December 31, 2020, as a result of the different aircraft purchase contracts signed with The 
Boeing Company, 6 Boeing 787 Dreamliner aircraft remain to be received with delivery dates between 2021 and 2023 . The approximate amount, according to list prices from the manufacturer, is      
ThUS $ 1,800,000.  
 
The delivery dates of some aircraft could be modified as a result of the continuous discussions held 
with aircraft manufacturer in the context of the curre nt situation of the company.  
 
(iii) Capitalized interest costs with respect to Property, plant and equipment.  
 
2020For the year ended
December 31,
3.52
11,6272019
4.72
1,444Average rate of capitalization of 
capitalized interest costs
Costs of capitalized  interest                                    %
ThUS$
  
 
NOTE 18 - CURRENT AND DEFERRED TAXES  
 
In the year ended December 31, 2020, the income tax provision was calculated for such period, 
applying the partially semi -integrated taxation system and a rate of 27%, in accordance with the 
Law No. 21,210, which modernizes the Tax Legislation, published in the Journal of the Republic of Chile, dated February 24, 2020.  
The net result for deferred tax corresponds to the variation of the year, of the assets and liabilities 
for deferred taxes generated by temporary differences and tax losses.  
For the permanent differences that give rise to a book value of assets and liabilities other than their 
tax value,  no deferred tax has been recorded since they are caused by transactions that are recorded 
in the financial statements and that will have no effect on spending tax for income tax.  73 
 
 (a) Current taxes  
(a.1) The composition of the current tax assets is the followi ng: 
Pr ovi si onal  monthl y 
     pay m ent s ( adv ances)
Ot her  r ecov er abl e cr edi t s 
T ot al   asset s by  cur r ent  t ax1 8,353
29,321 42,320 29,321  -  - 42,3205,532 1 8,353  -  - 5,5321 0,968ThUS $ ThUS $ ThUS $ ThUS $ ThUS $ ThUS $
36,788 1 0,968  -  - 36,788201 9D ecem ber  31 , D ecem ber  31 , D ecem ber  31 , D ecem ber  31 , D ecem ber  31 , D ecem ber  31 ,
2020 201 9 2020 201 9 2020Cur r ent  asset s Non-cur r ent assets T ot al  asset s
As  of As  of As  of As  of As  of As  of
 
(a.2) The composition of the current tax liabilities are as follows:  
I ncome tax pr ovi si on 
To ta l lia b ilitie s  b y c u rre n t ta x 656 11, 9 2 5656 11, 9 2 5
 - 2020 201 9
ThUS $ ThUS $Cu rre n t lia b ilitie s
As  of As  of
D ecem ber  31 , D ecem ber  31 ,To ta l lia b ilitie s No n - c u rre n t lia b ilitie s
As  of As  of
D ecem ber  31 , D ecem ber  31 ,As  of As  of
D ecem ber  31 , D ecem ber  31 ,
11, 9 2 5 - 
 - 656 - 201 9
ThUS $ ThUS $
656 11, 9 2 52020 201 9
ThUS $ ThUS $2020
 (b)  Deferred taxes  
The balances of deferred tax are the following:  
 1,700,215
52,233
(182,913)(136) (91,470)
 - 
(60,785)(9,857)
(1,200,729)
616,803(8,451)
235,583 - 270,681
24,168
384,280349,082
242As of
December 31, Concept
155,539(903)
Revaluation of financial instruments(139,346)
422
T ax losses81,881
9
68,462(1,314,456)
(65,139)2019
T h US$
Assets by right of useLiabilities
As of
December 31,
2020As of
December 31,
2020
T h US$
Properties, Plants and equipmentAssets
As of
December 31,
2019
T h US$ T h US$
229,119 42,011186,311
TotalOtherInt angibles
23,981
564,816 - Provisions 212,492
(18,133)Amortization
1,496,952
 
The balance of deferred tax assets and liabilities  are composed primarily of temporary differen ces to 
be reversed in the long term.  
 
 
 
230 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202074 
 
 Movements of Deferred tax assets and liabilities  
 
bal anceOpening Recognized in
consolidated
inc o m e
1 ,356,268Recognized in
comprehensive 
inc o m e
ThUS $As s e t (lia bility)
ThUS $
-(56,863) 3,345 - 382
(349,082)
(8,693)P roperty, plant and equipment (1 ,582,496) 67,237 -
Assets for right of use 85,752 47,729 -(1 ,51 3,904)
1 33,4811 ,355
-
Ta x lo s s e s 1 ,369,1 50 ( 10 , 116 )
         Total (51 3,042) 1 26,344 3,28712 5
2,1 91I ntangibles (351 ,238) ( 11, 7 18 ) -
Others (1 4,662) 5,844 -P ro vis io ns 37,328 1 3,881 2,873
Revaluation of financial instruments ( 13 ) 10 , 14 2 4 14 va ria tio n
ThUS $ ThUS $ ThUS $As s e ts /(lia bilitie s )(a)
Exchange
 rate
(381 ,220)1 3,8741 0,279(53,1 36)
43,567Ending
bal ance
(1 0,51 5)
(264)
(2,766)From January  1 to December 31, 2019
Am o rtiza tio n
 
From January 1 to December 31, 2020 (b)
Exchange
 rate
1 80,53677,371(1 8,1 33)(65,1 48)
1 44,030Ending
bal ance
(58,639)
(1 ,470)
(1 5,428)Am o rtiza tio n va ria tio n
ThUS $ ThUS $ ThUS $As s e ts /(lia bilitie s )
P ro vis io ns 43,567 1 58,1 78 924
Revaluation of financial instruments 1 0,279 (27,901 ) 959
         Total (381 ,220) 546,387 1 ,8831 ,965
1 3,486I ntangibles (349,082) 1 ,030 -
Others (8,693) 6,541 -(270,681 )
(1 87)P roperty, plant and equipment (1 ,51 3,904) 110 , 0 10 -
Assets for right of use 1 33,481 95,774 -(1 ,396,337)
229,2557,557
-
Ta x lo s s e s 1 ,356,268 21 6,897bal anceOpening Recognized in
consolidated
inc o m e
1 ,557,737Recognized in
comprehensive 
inc o m e
ThUS $As s e t (lia bility)
ThUS $
-(53,1 36) (1 4,1 42) - 2,1 30
 
Unrecognized deferred tax assets:  
 
Deferred tax assets are rec ognized to the extent that it is probable that the corresponding tax benefit 
will be realized in the future. Therefore, as of December 31, 2020, the Company has recognized provision with an impact on income, for the deferred tax assets that it estimates wi ll not be 
recoverable in the foreseeable future for ThUS $ 237,637, in total the company has not recognized deferred tax assets for ThUS$ 749,100 (ThUS$ 110,933 as of December 31, 2019) which include 
deferred tax assets related to negative tax results of T hUS$ 1,433,474 (ThUS$ 338,679 at December 
31, 2019).  
  
 
 
 75 
 
 Deferred tax expense and current income taxes:  
  Adjustment to previous period’s current tax
Deferred expense for taxes related to the Deferred tax expense
creation and reversal of temporary differences(352)
72,647
(126,344)Current tax expense
(3,602)   Current tax expenseThUS$2019 2020For the year ended
December 31,
ThUS$
(550,188)(546,387)72,999
(3,801)
(546,387)(199)
(126,344)
(53,697)                Total deferred tax expense, net
                Income/(loss) tax expense               Total current tax expense, net 
 
 
Composition of income/(loss) tax expense:  
Current tax expense, net, foreign2020 2019
ThUS$ ThUS$
Total current tax expense, net (3,801)Current tax expense, net, Chile76,806
Deferred tax expense, net, totalDeferred tax expense, net, foreign 235,963For the year ended
December 31,
Income/(loss) tax expense (550,188) (53,697)(163,638)
(546,387) (126,344)Deferred tax expense, net, Chile (782,350)4,232
(8,033) (4,159)
72,647
37,294
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
231 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202077 
 
 (a) Interest bearing loans 
Obligations with credit institutions and debt instruments:  
1,136,594341,475
16,534
97,730
693,690
32,061237,951
1,919,376
2,602,799
2,032,873200,721
482,702594,249
101,261
1,421,2611,361,096
108,301
774,379Current
Financial leases (7)(8)(10)
Other loans (4)385,490Loans to exporters
 - 151,701
388,492
435,413Bank loans
Other guaranteed obligationsG uaranteed obligations (7)(8)(10)
S ubtotal bank loans
Obligation with the publicDecember 31,As of
2019
T h US$As of
December 31,
2020
T h US$
Total obligations with financial institutionsTotal non-currentObligation with the public (1)(2)(3)
Financial leases (7)(8)(10) 840,122Total current
S ubtotal bank loansG uaranteed obligations (7)(8)(10) 930,364Non-current
Bank loans 139,783
Other guaranteed obligations (5)(9)2,243,776
2,075,1061,503,703
2,573,850
5,772,266
7,193,5275,489,078
7,732,854
 
(1)  On February 11, 2019, LATAM Finance Limited, a company incorporated in the Cayman 
Islands with limited liability and exclusively owned by LATAM Airlines Group S.A., has issued 
on the international market, pursuant to Rule 144 -A and Regulation S of the securities laws of the 
United States of America, unsecured long -term bonds for a nominal amount of US $ 600,000,000 
at an  annual interest rate of 7.00%. The bonds were placed at an issue price of 99.309% with 
respect to its even value. The bonds have semiannual interest payments and amortization of all 
capital at maturity and maturity date on March 1, 2026, unless they will be redeemed early 
according to their terms. As reported to the market, the issuance and placement was intended to 
finance general corporate purposes . 
(2)  On June 6, 2019, LATAM Airlines Group S.A. has issued in the local market (Santiago 
Stock Exchange) l ong-term unsecured bonds called Series E (BLATM -E), which correspond to the 
first series of bonds charged to the line registered in the Registro de Comisión para el Mercado Financiero (“CMF”) under the number Nº 921 dated November 26, 2018 for a total of                   
UF 9,000,000.  
 
The total amount issued was UF 5,000,000 with an expiration date on April 15, 2029 and a 3.60% annual coupon rate with semiannual interest payments. The placement rate was 2.73%, equivalent 
to an amount of ThUS$ 215,093.  
 
The funds from the issuance were allocated 50% to the refinancing of liabilities, 30% for the 
financing of investments and 20% for general corporate purposes.  
 76 
 
 Income before tax from the Chilean legal tax rate (27% as of December 31, 2020 and 2019)
(64.84)
(37.84)(16.22)(13,125)
(13.60) - (8.12) - (4.65)  - (102.83)
 -  - 
20,082
66,257
(92,015)
(53,697) - 
14.15
(9.25)
46.6927.00%2019
%December 31,
2020
ThUS$2019
ThUS$
(19,299)(145,930) 5.78Other increases (decreases):
 Tax effect for goodwill impairment losses
Derecognition of deferred tax assets not recoverable 237,637
Deferred tax asset not recognized 414,741  - 
          Tax expense using the effective rate0.38
(0.79) 40,528     Tax effect of non-taxable operating revenues
     Tax effect of disallowable expenses(19,529)
          Total adjustments to tax expense using the legal rate
(550,188)828,359
10.78Other increases (decreases): 54,538 (1.07)Derecognition of deferred tax liabilities for early termination of aircraft 
financing (294,969)Tax expense using the legal rate
     Tax effect of rates in other jurisdictions 1.14(1,378,547)
(58,268)27.00
     Tax effect by change in tax rate  -  - 38,318For the year ended For the year ended
December 31,
2020
453,681  - (8.89)
 Deferred taxes related to items charged to equity:  
Aggregate deferred taxation of components
    of other comprehensive income 1,883 3,2872020 2019
ThUS$ ThUS$For the year ended
December 31,
 
  
NOTE 19 - OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES  
 The composition of other financial liabilities is as follows:  
50,372
 - 
1,885,660(d)  Derivative non classified as hedge accounting
Total current2,937
3,055,730T h US$ T h US$
Current
(a)  Interest bearing loans
(b)  Lease Liability1,421,261
414,0272,243,776
806,283As of As of
December 31, December 31,
2020 2019
Non-current
(a)  Interest bearing loans
(c)  Hedge derivatives5,489,078(c)  Hedge derivatives 2,734
5,772,266
Total non-current22
8,530,418 - 
7,803,801(b) Lease Liability 2,314,723 2,758,130
 
232 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202079 
 
 At the end of the yea r, Chapter 11 retains most of the actions on the debtors so the repayment of the 
debt is not accelerated. The Group continues to present its financial information as of December 31, 
2020, including its interest bearing loan and leases, in accordance with t he originally agreed 
conditions, pending future agreements that it may reach with its creditors under Chapter 11.  
 (7)  On June 24, 2020, the United States Court for the Southern District of New York approved 
the motion filed by the Company to reject certa in aircraft lease contracts. Rejected contracts 
include, 17 aircraft financed under the EETC structure with an amount of MUS $ 844.1 and an 
aircraft financed with a financial lease with an amount of MUS $ 4.5.  
 
(8)  On October 20, 2020, the United States C ourt for the Southern District of New York 
approved the motion presented by the Company to reject an aircraft lease contract financed as financial lease in the amount of MUS $ 34.3. 
 
(9)        On October 10, 2020, LATAM Airlines Group S.A. partially drew down (MUS $ 1,150) of 
the committed credit line of the “DIP” financing. The financing expires on April 10, 2022. The line 
is guaranteed with collateral consisting of routes, slots, engines and spare parts. After this, transfer, 
the company still has MUS $ 1,300 available. This line is committed for a total of US $ 2,450 
million, of which US $ 750 million are committed by related parties.  
 (10)     In the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company transferred its interest in 7 special 
purpose entities. As a r esult of the above, the classification of financial liabilities associated with 3 
aircraft within guaranteed obligations was modified, and classified as financial leases.  
 
Balances by currency of interest bearing loans are as follows:    
  
Currency
7,732,854Chilean peso (U.F.) 679,983 611,542
Total - 
6,581,985
7,193,527US Dollar 6,752,212As of
Brazilian real 300,659As of
ThUS$2020December 31,
ThUS$2019December 31,
 
 78 
 
 (3)  On July 11, 2019, LATAM Finance Limited, a company incorporated in the Cayman 
Islands with li mited liability and exclusive property of LATAM Airlines Group SA, issued a re -
opening of the LATAM 2026 bond, issued on February 11 of 2019, for US $ 200,000,000. This re -
opening had a placement rate of 5.979%.  
 
Simultaneously, dated July 11, 2019, LATAM Airlines Group S.A. announced an offer for the 
repurchase of up to US $ 300 million of the unsecured LATAM 2020 bond, which was issued on 
June 9, 2015 for an amount of US $ 500 million at a coupon rate of 7.25% and due in June 2020. 
Offer repurchase price was 103.8 cents per dollar of nominal amount for the bonds offered until 
July 24, 2019, after this date and until August 7, 2019, the offered repurchase price was reduced to 100.8 cents for dollar at the expiration of the offer, a total of US $ 238,412,000  of the bonds were 
redeemed, of which US $ 238,162,000 arrived on or before July 24, 2019 and US $ 250,000 after 
that date. The net proceeds obtained from the re -opening of the LATAM 2026 bond was used to pay 
a portion of the public offer of the LATAM 2020  bond. The remainder of the public offer was paid 
in cash.  
 On December 17, 2019, LATAM Airlines Group S.A. The   repurchase of the remainder             
(US $ 262 million) of the unsecured bond LATAM2020 ended, which, added to the repurchase of 
July 11, 2 019, ends the entire balance of the bond. The repurchase was carried out through the buy -
back mechanism called “Make -Whole,” which is a right of the bond issuer to repurchase the entire 
outstanding balance of debt based on a price that is calculated using government treasury bonds. of 
the United States with maturity close to that of the bond and adding a spread. The repurchase price was 102.45 cents per dollar of nominal bond amount.  
 
(4)  On March 16, 2020, the obligations contained in the contract called "Indenture" signed 
between Guanay Finance Limited (see Note 1), LATAM Airlines Group S.A. expired. and Citibank, 
N.A. dated November 7, 2013. The bonds securitized with the future flows of credit card sales in 
the United States and Canada were issued in 20 13 for a total of US $ 450 million.  
 (5)  During March and April 2020, LATAM Airlines Group S.A. it drew down the entire (US $ 
600 million) of the committed credit line “Revolving Credit Facility (RCF)”. The financing expires 
on March 29, 2022. The line is  guaranteed with collateral consisting of airplanes, engines and spare 
parts. The first withdrawal was on March 27, 2020 with an amount of US $ 504.7 million, the second withdrawal was on April 7, 2020 for US $ 72 million, the third withdrawal was on April  14, 
2020 for US $ 11.2 million and the fourth and last withdrawal was on April 21, 2020 of US $ 12.1 million.  
 
(6)  On May 26, 2020, LATAM Airlines Group S.A. and its subsidiaries in Chile, Peru, 
Colombia and Ecuador availed themselves, in court for the s outhern district of New York, to the 
protection of Chapter 11 of the bankruptcy law of the United States. Under Section 362 of the 
Bankruptcy Code.  The same happened for TAM LINHAS AÉREAS S.A and certain subsidiaries 
(all LATAM subsidiary in Brazil), on Ju ly 8, 2020. Having filed for Chapter 11 automatically 
suspends most actions against LATAM and its subsidiaries, including most actions to collect financial obligations incurred before the date of receipt of Chapter 11 or to exercise control over the 
proper ty of LATAM and its subsidiaries. Consequently, although the bankruptcy filing may have 
led to breaches of some of the obligations of LATAM and its subsidiaries, the counterparties cannot take any action as a result of said breaches.  
 
233 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202080 
 
 Interest-bearing loans due in installments to December 31, 2020
Debtor: LATAM Airlines Group S.A. and Subsidiaries,  Tax No. 89.862.200-2, Chile.
Nominal values Accounting values
More than More than More than More than More than More than
Up to 90 days one to three to More than Total Up to 90 days one to three to More than Total
Creditor 90 to one three five five nominal 90 to one three five five accounting Effective Nominal
Tax No. Creditor country Currency days year years years years value days year years years years value Amortization rate rate
ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ % %
Loans to exporters
97.032.000-8 BBVA Chile US$ 74,000  -  -  -  - 74,000 76,929  -  -  -  - 76,929 At Expiration 3.08           3.08       
97.030.000-7 ESTADO Chile US$ 40,000  -  -  -  - 40,000 41,542  -  -  -  - 41,542 At Expiration 3.49           3.49       
76.645.030-K ITAU Chile US$ 20,000  -  -  -  - 20,000 20,685  -  -  -  - 20,685 At Expiration 4.20           4.20       
97.951.000-4 HSBC Chile US$ 12,000  -  -  -  - 12,000 12,545  -  -  -  - 12,545 At Expiration 4.15           4.15       
Bank loans
97.023.000-9 CORPBANCA Chile UF 11,255  -  -  -  - 11,255 11,665  -  -  -  - 11,665 Quarterly 3.35           3.35       
0-E SANTANDER Spain US$  -  - 139,459  -  - 139,459 3,300  - 139,459  -  - 142,759 Quarterly 2.80           2.80       
76.362.099-9 BTG PACTUAL CHILE Chile UF  - 67,868  -  -  - 67,868 1,985 67,237  -  -  - 69,222 At Expiration 3.10           3.10       
Obligations with the public
97.030.000-7 ESTADO Chile UF  -  - 177,846  - 382,267 560,113 25,729  - 177,715  - 395,652 599,096 At Expiration 4.81           4.81       
0-E BANK OF NEW YORK U.S.A. US$  -  -  - 700,000 800,000 1,500,000 82,572  -  - 698,450 803,289 1,584,311 At Expiration 7.16           6.94       
Guaranteed obligations
0-E BNP PARIBAS U.S.A. US$ 31,039 43,655 91,002 97,621 210,956 474,273 40,931 47,668 87,767 96,513 209,612 482,491 Quarterly / Semiannual 2.95           2.95       
0-E NATIXIS France US$ 42,740 34,150 77,693 81,244 35,302 271,129 50,001 34,150 75,808 80,316 34,969 275,244 Quarterly 3.11           3.11       
0-E INVESTEC England US$ 6,329 11,606 19,935  -  - 37,870 7,952 12,522 19,588  -  - 40,062 Semiannual 6.21           6.21       
0-E MUFG U.S.A. US$ 30,590 24,080 67,730 72,881 187,132 382,413 39,516 24,080 67,014 72,494 186,283 389,387 Quarterly 2.88           2.88       
0-E SMBC U.S.A. US$ 130,000  -  -  -  - 130,000 131,662  -  -  -  - 131,662 At Expiration 1.73           1.73       
- SWAP Received aircraft - US$ 10  -  -  -  - 10 10  -  -  -  - 10 Quarterly -            -          
Other guaranteed obligations
0-E CREDIT AGRICOLE France US$  - 273,199  -  -  - 273,199 1,395 272,794  -  -  - 274,189 At Expiration 1.92           1.92       
0-E MUFG U.S.A. US$ 82,498 72,206 117,084 19,731  - 291,519 88,880 72,206 114,589 19,499  - 295,174 Quarterly 2.67           2.67       
0-E CITIBANK U.S.A. US$  -  - 600,000  -  - 600,000 138  - 600,000  -  - 600,138 At Expiration 2.27           2.27       
0-E BANK OF UTAH U.S.A. US$  -  - 793,003  -  - 793,003  -  - 769,615  -  - 769,615 At Expiration 18.95        12.26     
Financial leases
0-E ING U.S.A. US$ 5,965  -  -  -  - 5,965 6,017  -  -  -  - 6,017 Quarterly 5.71           5.01       
0-E CREDIT AGRICOLE France US$ 13,875 2,034 2,052  -  - 17,961 13,922 2,034 2,052  -  - 18,008 Quarterly 1.99           1.54       
0-E CITIBANK U.S.A. US$ 77,994 58,993 113,186 43,778 18,841 312,792 78,860 58,993 109,086 42,558 18,619 308,116 Quarterly 2.58           1.77       
0-E PEFCO U.S.A. US$ 1,926  -  -  -  - 1,926 1,938  -  -  -  - 1,938 Quarterly 5.65           5.03       
0-E BNP PARIBAS U.S.A. US$ 14,934 2,326 791  -  - 17,951 14,909 2,326 788  -  - 18,023 Quarterly 1.81           1.41       
0-E WELLS FARGO U.S.A. US$ 112,987 99,975 230,416 98,028  - 541,406 114,994 99,975 219,624 96,556  - 531,149 Quarterly 2.43           1.74       
97.036.000-K SANTANDER Chile US$ 21,456 17,626 26,165  -  - 65,247 21,550 17,626 25,840  -  - 65,016 Quarterly 1.30           0.76       
0-E RRPF ENGINE England US$ 2,058 3,644 7,752 5,035  - 18,489 2,602 3,644 7,752 5,035  - 19,033 Monthly 4.01           4.01       
0-E APPLE BANK U.S.A. US$ 4,538 4,631 12,808 753  - 22,730 4,599 4,632 12,608 752  - 22,591 Quarterly 1.61           1.01       
0-E BTMU U.S.A. US$ 11,519 9,385 25,937 768  - 47,609 11,595 9,386 25,563 767  - 47,311 Quarterly 1.63           1.03       
0-E US BANK U.S.A. US$ 58,512 49,240 135,489 84,178  - 327,419 60,094 49,240 125,274 82,149  - 316,757 Quarterly 4.00           2.82       
0-E PK AIRFINANCE U.S.A. US$ 8,996 9,062 1,464  -  - 19,522 9,319 9,009 1,435  -  - 19,763 Monthly 1.98           1.98       
 Total 815,221 783,680 2,639,812 1,204,017 1,634,498 7,077,128 977,836 787,522 2,581,577 1,195,089 1,648,424 7,190,448Annual
234 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202081 
 
  
I nterest-bearing loans due in installments to December 31 , 2020
Debtor: LATAM Airlines Group S.A. and Subsidiaries,  Tax No. 89.862.200-2, Chile.
No minal values Accounting values
More than More than More than More than More than More than
Up to 90 days one to three to More than Total Up to 90 days one to three to More than Total
Credi tor 90 to one three five five no minal 90 to one three five five accounting Effective No minal
Tax No. Credi torCo untry Currency days year years years years value days year years years years value Amo rtizatio n rate rate
ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ % %
Bank loans
0-E NEDERL ANDSCHE
CREDIETVERZEKERING MAATSCHAPPIJ Netherlands US$ 409 3 18 2 16  -  - 943 333 3 11 324  -  - 968 Monthly 6.01 6.01
0-E BANCO BRADESCO Brazil BRL 80,1 75  -  -  -  - 80,1 75 91 ,672  -  -  -  - 91 ,672 Monthly 4.34 4.34
0-E BANCO DO BRASIL Brazil BRL 1 99,557  -  -  -  - 1 99,557 208,987  -  -  -  - 208,987 Monthly 3.95 3.95
Financial leas e
0-E NATIXIS France US$ 30,253  - 51 ,007  -  - 81 ,260 31 ,308  - 51 ,007  -  - 82,31 5 Quarterly / Semiannual 4.09 4.09
0-E WACAPOU L EASING S.A. Luxembourg US$ 2,342 797 1, 6 2 0  -  - 4,759 2,439 797 1, 6 2 0  -  - 4,856 Quarterly 2.00 2.00
0-E SOCIÉTÉ GÉNÉRAL E  MIL AN BRANCH It a ly US$ 1 44,1 20  -  -  -  - 1 44,1 20 14 1, 0 9 4  -  -  -  - 14 1, 0 9 4 Quarterly 3.07 3.01
0-E GA Tel essi s L L C U.S.A. US$ 486 950 2,623 2,772 5,430 1 2,261 486 991 2,623 2,772 5,642 12 , 514 Monthly 14 . 72 14 . 72
 Total 457,342 2,065 55,466 2,772 5,430 523,075 476,31 9 2,099 55,574 2,772 5,642 542,406
Total  consol i dated 1 ,272,563 785,745 2,695,278 1 ,206,789 1 ,639,928 7,600,203 1 ,454,1 55 789,621 2,637,1 51 1 ,1 97,861 1 ,654,066 7,732,854Annual
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
235 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202082 
 
 I nterest-bearing loans due in installments to December 31 , 201 9
Debtor: LATAM Airlines Group S.A. and Subsidiaries,  Tax No. 89.862.200-2, Chile.
Nominal values Accounting values
More than More than More than More than More than More than
Up to 90 days one to three to More than Total Up to 90 days one to three to More than Total
C re dito r 90 to one three five five no m ina l 90 to one three five five accounting Effective Nominal
Tax No. C re dito r country Currency da ys y ear y ears y ears y ears value da ys y ear y ears y ears y ears value Am o rtiza tio n rate rate
ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ % %
L oans to ex por ter s
97.032.000-8 BBV A C hile US $ 24,000 75,000  -  -  - 99,000 24,91 0 75,000  -  -  - 99,91 0 At Expira tio n 3.29    3.29   
97.003.000-K BANCO DO BRASI L C hile UF 1 50,000 50,000  -  -  - 200,000 1 50,257 50,283  -  -  - 200,540 At Expira tio n 2.93    2.93   
97.951 .000-4 HSBC C hile US $ 1 2,000  -  -  -  - 1 2,000 12 , 0 16  -  -  -  - 12 , 0 16 At Expira tio n 3.25    3.25   
76.1 00.458-1 BLADEX C hile US $  - 29,000  -  -  - 29,000  - 29,009  -  -  - 29,009 At Expira tio n 2.82    2.82   
Bank loans
97.023.000-9 CORPBANCA C hile UF 5,205 10 , 4 10  -  -  - 15 , 6 15 5,1 92 1 0,369  -  -  - 1 5,561 Quarterly 3.35    3.35   
0-E SANTANDER S pa in US $  -  - 1 37,860  -  - 1 37,860 255  - 1 37,860  -  - 13 8 , 115 Quarterly 3.62    4.61    
76.362.099-9 BTG P ACTUAL CHI LE C hile UF  -  - 62,769  -  - 62,769 113  - 62,1 72  -  - 62,285 At Expira tio n 3 . 10     3 . 10    
Obligations with the public
0-E ESTADO C hile UF  -  - 1 64,485  - 353,547 51 8,032  - 2,642 1 64,398  - 366,656 533,696 At Expira tio n 4.81     4.81    
97.030.000-7 BANK OF NEW YORK U.S .A. US $  -  -  - 700,000 800,000 1 ,500,000 1 8,640 1 0,779  - 698,256 803,563 1 ,531 ,238 At Expira tio n 7 . 16     6.94   
Guaranteed obligations
0-E BNP  P ARI BAS U.S .A. US $ 8 , 115 36,282 93,788 1 00,622 275,1 34 51 3,941 1 0,058 36,855 91 ,224 99,297 273,038 51 0,472 Quarterly 3.81     3.81    
0-E WI LMI NGTON TRUST U.S .A. US $ 22,090 66,71 0 1 83,332 1 96,452 397,639 866,223 27,229 66,71 0 1 78,784 1 94,741 395,983 863,447 Quarterly 4.45    4.45   
0-E CI TI BANK U.S .A. US $ 4,805 1 4,608 40,41 4 42,626 41 ,022 1 43,475 5,461 1 4,608 36,1 78 40,932 40,31 0 1 37,489 Quarterly 3.76    2.68   
0-E NATI XI S France US $ 1 0,675 32,708 84,674 78,1 23 76,726 282,906 11, 4 10 32,708 83,072 77,1 95 75,928 280,31 3 Quarterly 3.82    3.82   
0-E I NVESTEC England US $ 1 ,538 8,976 22,977 1 0,596  - 44,087 1 ,867 9 , 112 22,597 1 0,565  - 44,1 41 Semiannual 6.35    6.35   
0-E MU FG U.S .A. US $ 2,973 1 8,593 53,81 6 57,993 1 89,285 322,660 3,1 82 1 8,593 53,367 57,694 1 88,471 321 ,307 Quarterly 3.43    3.43   
- SW AP Recei ved Ai rcraft - US $ 80 78  -  -  - 15 8 80 78  -  -  - 15 8 Quarterly  -  - 
Other guaranteed obligations
0-E CREDI T AGRI COLE France US $  -  - 253,692  -  - 253,692 2,370  - 252,747  -  - 255,1 1 7 At Expira tio n 3.74    3.74   
0-E MU FG U.S .A. US $ 23,669 71 ,432 1 88,440 44,482  - 328,023 23,929 71 ,431 1 85,938 44,01 7  - 325,31 5 Quarterly 3.54    3.54   
Fi nanci al  l eases
0-E IN G U.S .A. US $ 3,875 7,931  -  -  - 11, 8 0 6 3,952 7,931  -  -  - 11, 8 8 3 Quarterly 5.71     5.01    
0-E CREDI T AGRI COLE France US $ 4,831 1 4,723 6,537  -  - 26,091 4,943 1 4,723 6,537  -  - 26,203 Quarterly 3 . 15     2.52   
0-E CI TI BANK U.S .A. US $ 1 7,972 52,790 1 1 3,746 1 6,399  - 200,907 1 8,633 52,790 112 , 7 12 1 6,368  - 200,503 Quarterly 3.39    2.80   
0-E PEFCO U.S .A. US $ 1 ,901 1 ,926  -  -  - 3,827 1, 9 18 1 ,926  -  -  - 3,844 Quarterly 5.65    5.03   
0-E BNP  P ARI BAS U.S .A. US $ 8,523 23,1 97 25,1 82 20,71 7 10 , 110 87,729 9,042 23,1 97 24,675 20,424 9,975 87,31 3 Quarterly 3.85    3.72   
0-E WELLS  F AR GO U.S .A. US $ 32,321 97,956 248,086 1 99,037 1 4,284 591 ,684 34,868 97,956 233,822 1 95,209 14 , 13 8 575,993 Quarterly 2.67    1. 9 8    
97.036.000-K SANTANDER C hile US $ 5,690 1 7,255 46,472 3,1 34  - 72,551 5,959 1 7,255 45,805 3,1 28  - 72,1 47 Quarterly 3.00    2.46   
0-E RRP F ENGI NE England US $ 864 2,348 7,441 8,075 9 15 1 9,643 908 2,348 7,441 8,075 9 15 1 9,687 Monthly 4.01     4.01    
0-E AP P LE BANK U.S .A. US $ 1 ,483 4,509 1 2,474 7,242  - 25,708 1 ,632 4,509 12 , 16 2 7,21 2  - 25,51 5 Quarterly 3.33    2.73   
0-E BTMU U.S .A. US $ 3,01 0 9,1 48 25,278 1 3,904  - 51 ,340 3,1 91 9,1 48 24,661 1 3,849  - 50,849 Quarterly 3.33    2.73   
0-E NATI XI S France US $ 702 2,1 73 2,279  -  - 5,1 54 723 2,1 73 2,279  -  - 5,1 75 Quarterly 4.41     4.41    
0-E KF W IP EX-B ANK Germany US $ 1 ,760 3,568  -  -  - 5,328 1 ,769 3,568  -  -  - 5,337 Quarterly 3.55    3.55   
0-E AI RBUS FI NANCI AL U.S .A. US $ 1 ,977 5,687  -  -  - 7,664 1 ,992 5,687  -  -  - 7,679 Monthly 3.31     3.31    
0-E US BANK U.S .A. US $ 1 5,862 48,1 32 1 32,441 1 35,200 1 7,492 349,1 27 17 , 6 10 48,1 32 1 1 9,881 1 30,865 17 , 18 8 333,676 Quarterly 4.01     2.82   
0-E P K AI RFI NANCE U.S .A. US $ 2,487 7,729 1 7,871  -  - 28,087 2,530 7,729 1 7,871  -  - 28,1 30 Monthly 3.45    3.45   
Other loans
0-E CI TI BANK (* ) U.S .A. US $ 24,595 76,431  -  -  - 1 01 ,026 24,830 76,431  -  -  - 1 01 ,261 Quarterly 6.00    6.00   
 Total 393,003 789,300 1 ,924,054 1 ,634,602 2,1 76,1 54 6 , 9 17 , 113 431 ,469 803,680 1 ,876,1 83 1 ,61 7,827 2,1 86,1 65 6,91 5,324
(* ) Securitized bond with the future flows from the sales with credit card in United States and Canada, through the company Guanay Finance Limited.Annual
236 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202083 
 
 Interest-bearing loans due in installments to December 31, 2019
Debtor: TAM S.A. and Subsidiaries, Tax No. 02.012.862/0001-60, Brazil.
Nominal values Accounting values
More than More than More than More than More than More than
Up to 90 days one to three to More than Total Up to 90 days one to three to More than Total
Creditor 90 to one three five five nominal 90 to one three five five accounting Effective Nominal
Tax No. Creditor country Currency days year years years years value days year years years years value Amortization rate rate
ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ % %
Bank loans
0-E NEDERLANDSCHE
CREDIETVERZEKERING MAATSCHAPPIJ Netherland US$ 148 452 689  -  - 1,289 153 452 689  -  - 1,294 Monthly 6.01 6.01
Financial leases
0-E NATIXIS France US$ 3,243 6,906 76,107  -  - 86,256 3,723 6,906 76,107  -  - 86,736 Quarterly/Semiannual 6.29 6.29
0-E WACAPOU LEASING S.A. Luxemburg US$ 757 2,317 3,206  -  - 6,280 777 2,317 3,206  -  - 6,300 Quarterly 4.32 4.32
0-E SOCIÉTÉ GÉNÉRALE  MILAN BRANCH Italy US$ 9,855 160,076  -  -  - 169,931 10,409 159,876  -  -  - 170,285 Quarterly 5.39 5.39
0-E GA Telessis LLC U.S.A US$ 306 1,100 2,385 2,694 7,010 13,495 399 1,100 2,385 2,694 7,010 13,588 Monthly 14.72 14.72
 Total 14,309 170,851 82,387 2,694 7,010 277,251 15,461 170,651 82,387 2,694 7,010 278,203
Total consolidated 407,312 960,151 2,006,441 1,637,296 2,183,164 7,194,364 446,930 974,331 1,958,570 1,620,521 2,193,175 7,193,527Annual
 
 
 
 
 
237 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202084 
 (b) Lease Liability:  
 
The movement of the lease liabilities corresponding to the years reported are as follow:  
 
ThUS $
Opening balance as January 1 , 201 9
New contracts
Renegotiations
P ayments
Accrued i nterest
Exchange differences
Cumulative translation adjustment
Other i ncreases (decreases)
Changes
Cl osi ng bal ance as of December 31 , 201 9
New contracts
Write o ff
Renegotiations
P ayments
Accrued i nterest
Exchange differences
Cumulative translation adjustment
Other i ncreases (decreases)
Changes(35,049) 4,91 9 (30,1 30)(41 ,535) 1 2,208 (29,327)
(1 5,658) ( 5 1, 15 1)
Closing balance as of December 31 ,2020 3,026,573 3,1 21 ,006- (5,324) (5,324)
(35,493)
94,433- (7,967)
- (38)1 58,253 1 67,601 9,348
(7,967)
(38)Opening balance as January 1 , 2020 3,042,231 3,1 72,1 57
- 5431 29,926
543304,422 31 4,1 08
3,042,231 3,1 72,1 579,686
1 29,926total
1 20,240Aircraft
ThUS $OthersLia bilityL ease
ThUS $
2,737,809 2,858,049
71 9,525 743,403
1 65,981 1 77,94923,878
11, 9 6 8(539,549) (37,391 ) (576,940)
(1 31 ,427) (36,689) (1 68,1 1 6)- (2,1 24) (2,1 24)
(7,435) (285) (7,720)- 1, 6 14
- (467)1, 6 14
(467)
 
 
The company recognizes the interest payments related to the lease liabilities in the consolidated 
result under Financial expenses (See Note 27 (d)).  
 
(c) Hedg e derivatives  
50,372 - 
22
 - 
 - 
22 - Total  hedge
Cu rre n t lia b ilitie s No n - c u rre n t lia b ilitie s d e riva tive s
As  of As  of As  of As  of As  of As  of
2020 201 9D ecem ber  31 , D ecem ber  31 , D ecem ber  31 , D ecem ber  31 , D ecem ber  31 , D ecem ber  31 ,
2020 201 9 2020 201 9
ThUS $
A ccr ued i nt er est  f r om  t he l ast  dat eThUS $ ThUS $ ThUS $ ThUS $ ThUS $
1 ,723
Fai r  v al ue of  i nt er est  r at e der i v at i v es
 -  - 
48,347324 of  i nt er est  r at e sw ap  -  -  - 
2,734  - 2,7341 ,723
302
50,394 Total  hedge der i vati ves 2,734  - 2,734 -  - 
Fai r  val ue of  f or ei gn cur r ency der i vati ves  -  -  - 48,347Fa ir va lu e  o f fu e l d e riva tive s
 85 
 (d)     Derivatives that do no t qualify for hedge accounting  
 
T ot al derived not  qualifyTotal derivatives of
Current liabilities Non-current liabilities no coverage
As of As of As of As of As of As of
2019December December December December December December 
2020 2019 2020 2019 2020
T h US$ T h US$ T h US$ T h US$ T h US$ T h US$
not registered as hedge 2,937  -  -  - 2,937  - Derivative of foreign currency
 -       as hedge accounting 2,937  -  -  - 2,937
 
The foreign currency derivatives correspond to options, forwards and swaps.  
Hedging operation  
The fair values of net assets/ (liabilities), by type of derivative, of the contracts held as hedging 
instruments are presented below:  
 
Currency options  R$/US $  (4)  - (41)Cross currency swaps (CCS ) (1)
Interest rate swaps (2)
48,542 1,296 Fuel options (3)2,618 (2,734)As of As of
December 31, December 31,
2019 2020
T h US$ T h US$
(22,662)  - 
 
 
(1) Covers the significant variations in cash flows associated wit h market risk implicit in the 
changes in the 3 -month LIBOR interest rate and the exchange rate US$/UF of bank loans. 
These contracts are recorded as cash flow hedges and fair value.  
 
(2) Covers the significant variations in cash flows associated with market r isk implicit in the 
increases in the 3 months LIBOR interest rates for long -term loans incurred in the acquisition 
of aircraft and bank loans. These contracts are recorded as cash flow hedges.  
 
(3) Covers significant variations in cash flows associated with m arket risk implicit in the changes 
in the price of future fuel purchases. These contracts are recorded as cash flow hedges.  
 
(4) They cover the exposure to foreign exchange risk of operating cash flows, mainly caused by 
the fluctuation of the CLP/US$, R$/US$, US$/EUR and US$/GBP exchange rate. These 
contracts are registered as cash flow hedge contracts.  
  
The Company only has cash flow and fair value hedges (in the case of CCS). In the case of fuel 
hedges, the cash flows subject to such hedges will occur and wi ll impact results in the next 12 
months from the date of the consolidated statement of financial position, while in the case of hedges of interest rates, these they will occur and will impact results throughout the life of the 
associated loans, up to their  maturity. In the case of currency hedges through a CCS, there is a 
group of hedging relationships, in which two types of hedge accounting are generated, one of cash flow for the US $ / UF component; and another of fair value, for the floating rate compone nt US $. 
The other group of hedging relationships only generates cash flow hedge accounting for the US $ / 
UF component.  
238 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202086 
 All hedging operations have been performed for highly probable transactions, except for fuel hedge. 
See Note 3.  
 
Since none of the hedg es resulted in the recognition of a non -financial asset, no portion of the result 
of derivatives recognized in equity was transferred to the initial value of that type of asset.  
 The amounts recognized in comprehensive income during the period and transfe rred from net 
equity to income are as follows:  
 
     income during the period
Debit (credit) transferred from net equity to 
      income during the period (13,016)(119,970) 66,856
(30,074)Debit (credit) recognized in comprehensiveFor the year ended
December 31,
2020 2019
T h US$ T h US$
 
 See note 3.1 a) for reclassification to profit or loss for each hedging operation and Note 18 b) for 
deferred taxes related.  
  NOTE 20 - TRADE AND OTHER ACCOUNTS PAYABLES  
 The composition of Tra de and other accounts payables is as follows:  
 
2020December 31,As of 
2019December 31,As of 
ThUS$ ThUS$
Current
(a) Trade and other accounts payables 1,757,799 1,671,304
(b) Accrued liabilities at the reporting date
Total trade and other accounts payables564,326
2,322,125551,570
2,222,874
 
(a)  Trade and other accounts payable:  
As of As of 
December 31, December 31,
2019 2020
1,671,304ThUS$ ThUS$
1,408,690
262,614Trade creditors
Other accounts payable 
Total1,281,432
476,367
1,757,799
  
 
 
 
 
 87 
 The details of Trade and other accounts payables are as follows:  
 
Crew
3,997
60,617
1,671,304As of 
December 31,
2019
ThUS$
145,973
79,958
22,921
18,16660,850234,070
87,825
476,320
114,163
6,622
212,165
1,757,799 Total trade and other accounts payablesJol Fleet
Others Suppliers technical purchases 281,452
Marketing 53,419Boarding Fees 181,049
Professional services and advisory 146,753
Aircraft Fuel 143,119
Handling and ground handling 137,626
Airport charges and overflight 142,709
Maintenance 116,103December 31,
2020As of 
ThUS$
81,459
Leases, maintenance and IT services 110,472 59,011
Other personnel expenses 105,696 93,490
42,202
Services on board 58,099 59,647
Achievement of goals 7,840 30,635Air companies 27,668
10,46616,541
Land services
 
 (b)      Liabilities accrued:  
Others accrued liabilities (**)
Total accrued liabilities 564,326460,082
Accrued personnel expenses 72,696
551,570292,793
29,362 49,42591,153 2,186118,199ThUS$ ThUS$
Aircraft and engine maintenance
Accounts payable to personnel (*)As of As of 
December 31, December 31,
2019 2020
  
(*)  Profits and bonus participation (Note 23 letter b).  
(**) See Note 22.  
The balances include the amounts that will be part of the reorganization agreement, product of the entry into the Chapter 11 process on May 26, 2020 fo r LATAM, and July 08 for certain subsidiaries 
in Brazil.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
239 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202088 
 NOTE 21 - OTHER PROVISIONS  
 
 
44,000  - Provisions for onerous contracts (3)  -  - 44,000  - 
23,774 5,206 588,359 286,403 612,133Civil contingencies 2,266T h US$ T h US$ T h US$
2,202 103,984 66,605Current liabilities Non-current liabilities Total Liabilities
As of As of As of As of As of As of
December 31,
2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31,
T h US$ T h US$ T h US$
Tax contingencies 21,188 2,033 364,342 164,190 385,530 166,223Provision for contingencies (1)
106,250 68,807
48,435 27,476
Other  -  - 17,821 19,886 17,821 19,886Labor contingencies 320 971 48,115 26,505
291,609Commission investigation (2)  -  - 10,097 9,217 10,097 9,217Provision for European
Total other provisions (4)
 
(1) Provisions for contingencies:  
 
 The tax contingencies correspond to litigation and tax criteria related to the tax treatment 
applicable to direct and indirect taxes, which are found in both ad ministrative and judicial 
stage.  
 The civil contingencies correspond to different demands of civil order filed against the 
Company.  
 The labor contingencies correspond to different demands of labor order filed against the 
Company.  
 The Provisions are recog nized in the consolidated income statement in administrative expenses 
or tax expenses, as appropriate.  
(2) Provision made for proceedings brought by the European Commission for possible breaches of free competition in the freight market.  
(3) Based on mark et information on the drop in the price of some assets, a provision was made for 
onerous contracts associated with the purchase commitments of aircraft.  
 (4) Total other provision as of December 31, 2020, and December 31, 2019, include the fair value 
corre spond to those contingencies from the business combination with TAM S.A and 
subsidiaries, with a probability of loss under 50%, which are not provided for the normal application of IFRS enforcement and that only must be recognized in the context of a busin ess 
combination in accordance with IFRS 3.  
 
 
 89 
 Movement of provisions:  
Total
T h US$
Closing balance as of December 31, 2019
Closing balance as of December 31, 2020282,392 9,217 291,609Reversal of provision (58,063)  - (58,063)
Exchange difference (302) (186) (488) - 
 - 
 - Provision used (82,212)  - (82,212)
Difference by subsidiaries conversion (10,764)  - (10,764) - 
 - Opening balance as of January 1, 2019 298,886 9,403 308,289
Increase in provisions 134,847  - 134,847 - 
 - European
Onerous Legal Commission
claims (1) Investigation (2)
T h US$ T h US$Contracts
T h US$
(58,654)  - (58,654) - 
 - 291,609
Increase in provisions 408,078  - 452,078Opening balance as of January 1, 2020 282,392 9,217  - 
44,000
Provision used (47,238)  - (47,238)
Difference by subsidiaries conversion 
558,036 10,097 612,133Reversal of provision (25,563)  - (25,563)
Exchange difference (979) 880 (99) - 
 - 
44,000
 
(1) Accumulated balances include a judicial deposit delivered in guarantee, with respect to the 
“Fundo Aeroviario” (FA), for ThUS$ 69, made in order to suspend the collection and the 
application of a fine. The Company is discussing in Court the cons titutionality of the 
requirement made by FA calculated at the ratio of 2.5% on the payroll in a legal claim. Initially the payment of said contribution was suspended by a preliminary judicial decision and 
about 10 years later, this same decision was revers ed. As the decision is not final, the 
Company has deposited the securities open until that date, in order to avoid collection 
processing and the application of the fine.  
 Finally, if the final decision is favorable to the Company, the deposit made and pay ments 
made later will return to TAM. On the other hand, if the court confirms the first decision, said deposit will become a final payment in favor of the Government of Brazil. The procedural stage as of December 31, 2020 is described in Note 31 in the Rol e of the case 
2001.51.01.012530- 0. 
 
(2) European Commission Provision  
 
 Provision constituted on the occasion of the process initiated in December 2007 by the General 
Competition Directorate of the European Commission against more than 25 cargo airlines, 
among  which is Lan Cargo SA, which forms part of the global investigation initiated in 2006 
for possible infractions of free competition in the air cargo market, which was carried out 
jointly by the European and United States authorities.  
  With respect to Euro
pe, the General Directorate of Competition imposed fines totaling                               
€ 799,445,000 (seven hundred and ninety -nine million four hundred and forty -five thousand 
Euros) for infractions of European Union regulations on free competiti on against eleven (11) 
airlines, among which are LATAM Airlines Group SA and its subsidiary Lan Cargo S.A .,For 
its part, LATAM Airlines Group S.A. and Lan Cargo S.A., jointly and severally, have been 
fined for the amount of € 8,220,000 (eight million two hundred twenty thousand Euros), for 
240 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202090 
 these infractions, an amount that was provisioned in the financial statements of LATAM. On 
January 24, 2011, LATAM Airlines Group S.A. and Lan Cargo S.A. They appealed the 
decision before the Court of Justice of the Euro pean Union. On December 16, 2015, the 
European Court resolved the appeal and annulled the Commission's Decision. The European Commission did not appeal the judgment, but on March 17, 2017, the European Commission again adopted its original decision to impo se on the eleven lines original areas, the same fine 
previously imposed, amounting to a total of 776,465,000 Euros. In the case of LAN Cargo and its parent, LATAM Airlines Group S.A. imposed the same fine mentioned above. The 
procedural stage as of Decembe r 31, 2020 is described in Note 31 in section 2 judgments 
received by LATAM Airlines Group S.A. and Subsidiaries.  
  
NOTE 22 - OTHER NON -FINANCIAL LIABILITIES  
 
12,518 34,982
Total other non-financial liabilities 2,088,791 2,835,221 702,008 851,383 2,790,799 3,686,604Other sundry liabilities 12,518 34,982  -  - 27,853 43,916
Others taxes 3,931 7,555  -  - 3,931 7,555Retentions 27,853 43,916  -  - 851,383 2,738,888 3,540,466
Sales tax 7,609 2,556  -  - 7,609 2,5562,036,880 2,689,083 702,008 Deferred revenues (1)(2)     2019
T h US$ T h US$ T h US$ T h US$ T h US$2020 2019 2020 2019 2020
T h US$December 31, December 31,Current liabilities Non-current liabilities Total Liabilities
As of As of As of As of As of As of
December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31,
 - 57,129 Dividends payable  - 57,129  -  - 
 
Deferred Income Movement
Fro m J anuary 1  to
December 31 , 201 9
Fro m J anuary 1  to
December 31 , 2020Adjustment
Deferred i ncome a pplic a tio n
Lo ya lty I AS 29,
Others
Initia l ba la nc e R e c o gnitio n Us e and exchange) tickets hyperinflation provisions(accredi tati on Expiration of Argentina ( 1)
Fi nal  bal ance
ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$
33,402 3,540,466 2,974,760 8,264,970 (7,703,01 1 ) 1 24,548 (1 56,435) 2,232
(3,974) 2,738,888 3,540,466 1 ,970,203 (2,554,476) (1 37,1 76) (72,670) (3,485)
 
(1) The balance includes mainly, deferred income for services not provided as of December 31, 2020 an d December 31, 2019; and for the frequent flyer program LATAM Pass.  
 
LATAM Pass is LATAM's frequent flyer program that allows rewarding the preference and 
loyalty of its customers with multiple benefits and privileges, through the accumulation of 
miles or points that can be exchanged for tickets or for a varied range of products and 
services. Clients accumulate miles or LATAM Pass points every time they fly in LATAM 
and other connections associated with the program, as well as buy in stores or use the 
servi ces of a vast network of companies that have agreements with the program around the 
world.  
 
On September 26, 2019, the Company signed a framework agreement with Delta Air Lines, 
Inc, in which the latter agreed to pay ThUS $ 350,000 for compensation of cost s and income 91 
 that the Company must incur or stop receiving, respectively, during the transition period until 
the implementation of the strategic alliance.  
  
During December 2019, the Company sold its rights to receive future payments of the 
committed trans ition. The payments consisted of ThUS $ 200,000 payable in 8 quarterly 
installments of ThUS $ 25,000 as of January 2, 2020. On December 13, 2019, the Company 
received ThUS $ 194,068 for said sale. 
 
The account receivable was derecognized and the interest o f ThUS $ 5,932 was recognized in 
the item Financial Costs of the Consolidated Statement of Income.  
 
(2) As of December 31 , 2020, Deferred Income includes ThUS $ 179,612 corresponding to the 
balance to be accrued from the committed compensation from Delta Air L ines, Inc., which is 
recognized in Income Statement, based on the estimation of differentials of income, until the 
implementation of the strategic alliance. During the period, the Company has recognized 
ThUS $ 132,467 for this concept.  
 
Additionally, the C ompany maintains a balance of ThUS $ 29,507 in the Trade accounts 
payable item of the Statement of Financial Position, corresponding to the compensation of 
costs to be incurred.  
  NOTE 23 - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS  
 
14,879
74,11619,024
93,570 Total liability for employee benefitsOther obligationsAs of As of
December 31, December 31,
2020 2019
Retirements payments
Resignation paymentsT h US$ T h US$
51,007
8,23064,824
9,722
 
 (a) The movement in retirements and resignation payments and oth er obligations:  
 
From January 1 to
December 31, 2019
From January 1 to
December 31, 2020 74,116 93,570 (18,759) 3,971 (8,634)T h US$ T h US$ T h US$ T h US$balance provision paid
T h US$Opening  current service Currency Closing Benefits Increase (decrease)
translation
3,96882,365 11,242 (4,390) (6,283)Actuarial
(gains)
losses
T h US$
10,636 93,570balance
  
 
 
 
 
 
241 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202092 
 The principal assumptions u sed in the calculation to the provision in Chile, are presented below:  
 
4.50%
60 60
65 655.56% 6.04%
RV-2014 RV-2014
2.8% 2.8%2019 2020
Retirement age of men For the period ended
December 31,
Assumptions
Discount rate 2.67% 3.13%
Expected rate of salary increase
Rate of turnover 
Mortality rate
Inflation rate
Retirement age of women 2.80%
 
 
The discount rate corresponds to the 20 years Central Bank of Chile Bonds (BCP). The RV -2014 
mortality tables correspond to those established by the Commission for the Financial Market of 
Chile and; for the determination of the inflation  rates, the market performance curves of BCU 
Central Bank of Chile  have been used and BCP long term at the scope date.  
 The calculation of the present value of the defined benefit obligation is sensitive to the variation of 
some actuarial assumptions such  as discount rate, salary increase, rotation and inflation.  
 The sensitivity analysis for these variables is presented below:   
 
 
Change in the accrued liability an closing for increase in 100 p.b.Discount rate
Rate of wage growth(4,576)T h US$
Change in the accrued liability an closing for increase in 100 p.b.
Change in the accrued liability an closing for decrease of 100 p.b.(7,257)
5,365
4,989
(7,159)Effect on the liability
As of
December 31,
2019
T h US$
5,244
4,946
(4,678)As of
December 31,
2020
Change in the accrued liability an closing for decrease of 100 p.b.
 
 (b) The liability for short -term:  
91,153 2,186 Profit-sharing and bonuses (*)T h US$ T h US$As of As of
December 31, December 31,
2020 2019
 
(*)  Accounts payables to employees (Note 20 letter b)  
 
The participation in profits and bonuses related to an annual incentive plan for achievement of certain objectives.  93 
 (c) Employment expenses are detailed b elow:  
70,244 114,126
962,060 1,794,762For the year ended
December 31,
2020 2019
41,259 147,576
 - 54,256T h US$ T h US$
850,557 1,478,804 Salaries and wages
Termination benefits (*)
Other personnel expenses
     TotalShort-term employee benefits
 
 (*) The termination benefits related to the  reorganization under Chapter 11 are classified in Note 27, 
Restructuring activities expense.  
 
 
NOTE 24 - ACCOUNTS PAYABLE, NON -CURRENT  
 
ThUS$ ThUS$As of As of
December 31, December 31,
2020 2019
Aircraft and engine maintenance
Provision for vacations and bonuses
Other sundry liabilities
Total accounts payable, non-currentFleet (JOL)
651,600190,225
30715,868412,710
619,11036,18015,036392,347
208,037
 
  
NOTE 25 - EQUITY  
 (a) Capital  
 
The Company’s objective is to maintain an appropriate leve l of capitalization that enables it to 
ensure access to the financial markets for carrying out its medium and long -term objectives, 
optimizing the return for its shareholders and maintaining a solid financial position.  
 The paid capital of the Company at December 31 , 2020 amounts to ThUS$ 3,146,265  divided into 
606,407,693 common stock of a same series (ThUS$ 3,146,265 divided into 606,407,693 shares as 
of December 31, 2019),  a single series nominative, ordinary character with no par value. There are 
no sp ecial series of shares and no privileges. The form of its stock certificates and their issuance, 
exchange, disablement, loss, replacement and other similar circumstances, as well as the transfer of the shares, is governed by the provisions of Corporations Law and its regulations.  
 
(b) Subscribed and paid shares  
 During the year 2019, the Company fully reduced 466,832 shares pending placement and payment, 
corresponding to the authorized capital increase in the extraordinary shareholders meeting of 
August 18,  2016. Consequently, as of December 31 , 2020, the statutory capital of the Company is 
demonstrated by 606,407,693 shares fully subscribed and paid. 
242 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202094 
 The following table shows the movement of authorized and fully paid shares previously described 
above:  
 
Movement of authorized shares
Closing
Nro. Of shares
606,407,693(466,832)
 - From January 1 to December 31, 2020 606,407,693From January 1 to December 31, 2019 606,874,525 606,407,693and othersExpired shares
balance balance compensation plansOpening  intended for 
 
 
 
Movement fully paid shares
Paid shares as of January 1, 2019
There are no movements of shares paid
   during the 2019 period
Paid shares as of January 1, 2020
There are no movements of shares paid   during the 2020 period
Paid shares as of December 31, 2020 606,407,693 3,160,718 (14,453) 3,146,2653,146,265
- - - -(14,453)
606,407,693 3,160,718 (14,453)and placement 
of shares (2)
T h US$ T h US$Paid- in
3,146,265 (14,453)Capital
-
3,146,265 Paid shares as of December 31, 2019 606,407,693 3,160,718- - -606,407,693Movement
value
3,160,718sharesN° ofof shares
(1)
T h US$Cost of issuance 
 
 (1)  Amounts reported represent only those arising from the payment of the shares subscribed.  
(2)  Decrease of capital by capitalization of reserves for  cost of issuance and placement of 
shares established according to Extraordinary Shareholder´s Meetings, where such decreases were 
authorized.  
(c) Treasury stock  
At December 31 , 2020,  the Company held no treasury stock, the remaining of ThUS$ (178) 
corresp onds to the difference between the amount paid for the shares and their book value, at the 
time of the full right decrease of the shares which held in its portfolio.  
(d) Reserve of share - based payments  
Movement of Reserves of share - based payments:  
From January 1 to December 31, 2019
From January 1 to December 31, 2020 S tock 
Opening option Closing
Periods balance plan balance
T h US$ T h US$ T h US$
36,289 946 37,23536,289 37,874 (1,585)
 
These reserves are related to the “Share -based payments” explained in Note 34.  
 95 
 (e) Other sundry reserves 
Movement of Other sundry reserves:  
 
From January 1 to December 31, 2019
From January 1 to December 31, 2020T h US$
2,452,4692,638,916
2,675 2,452,019T h US$ T h US$ T h US$
(2,312) 2,452,469 (184,135)
(3,125)Closing
Periods balance with minorities reserves balanceOpening Transactions Legal 
 
 Balance of Other sundry  reserves comprise the following:  
Transactions with non-controlling interest (3) (213,273)
Others
Total(3,020)As of
December 31,
ThUS$
2,452,019       (210,048)
(5,795)
2,452,469       2020
Reserve for the adjustment to the value of fixed assets (2) 2,620               As of
December 31,
2019
ThUS$
2,665,692       
2,620               Higher value for TAM S.A. share exchange (1) 2,665,692       
 
 
(1) Corresponds to the difference between  the value of the shares of TAM S.A., acquired by 
Sister Holdco S.A. (under the Subscriptions) and by Holdco II S.A. (by virtue of the Exchange Offer), which is recorded in the declaration of completion of the merger by absorption, and the fair 
value of th e shares exchanged by LATAM Airlines Group S.A. as of June 22, 2012.  
 
(2)  Corresponds to the technical revaluation of the fixed assets authorized by the Commission 
for the Financial Market in the year 1979, in Circular No. 1529. The revaluation was option al and 
could be made only once; the originated reserve is not distributable and can only be capitalized.  
(3)  The balance as of December 31 , 2020 corresponds to the loss generated by: Lan Pax Group 
S.A. e Inversiones Lan S.A. in the acquisition of shares o f Aerovías de Integración Regional Aires 
S.A. for ThUS $ (3,480) and ThUS $ (20), respectively; the acquisition of TAM S.A. of the minority interest in Aerolinhas Brasileiras S.A. for ThUS $ (885), the acquisition of Inversiones 
Lan S.A. of the minority pa rticipation in Aires Integra Regional Airlines S.A. for an amount of 
ThUS $ (2) and the acquisition of a minority stake in Aerolane S.A. by Lan Pax Group S.A. for an 
amount of ThUS $ (21,526) through Holdco Ecuador S.A.  (3) The loss due to the acquisition of the 
minority interest of Multiplus S.A. for ThUS $ (184,135) (see Note 1), (4) and the acquisition of a minority interest in Latam Airlines Perú S.A through Latam Airlines Group S.A for an amount of 
ThUS $ (3,225).  
243 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202096 
 (f) Reserves with effect in other compreh ensive income.  
 
Movement of Reserves with effect in other comprehensive income:  
 
TotalCurrency
T h US$ T h US$reservetranslation
T h US$Actuarial gain
or loss on defined 
benefit plans 
reserveCash flow
hedging
reserve
T h US$
(2,856,335)
Deferred tax  - 959  - 959Opening balance as of January 1, 2020 (2,890,287) 56,892 (22,940)
Change in fair value of hedging instrument recognised in OCI  - (105,776)  - (105,776)
Reclassified from OCI to profit or loss  - (13,016)  - 
Actuarial reserves 
by employee benefit plans  -  - (3,968) (3,968)
Deferred tax actuarial IAS
Closing balance as of December 31, 2020 (3,790,513) (60,941) (25,985) (3,877,439)by employee benefit plans  -  - 923 923
Translation difference subsidiaries (900,226)  -  - (900,226)by employee benefit plans  -  - 2,873 2,873Deferred tax  - 345  - 345
Actuarial reserves 
by employee benefit plans  -  - (10,635) (10,635)Change in fair value of hedging instrument recognised in OCI  - 95,954  - 95,954Opening balance as of January 1, 2019 (2,656,644) (9,333) (15,178) (2,681,155)
(13,016)Reclassified from OCI to profit or loss  - (30,074)  - (30,074)
Translation difference subsidiaries (233,643)  -  - (233,643)
Closing balance as of December 31, 2019 (2,890,287) 56,892 (22,940) (2,856,335)Deferred tax actuarial IAS
 
(f.1) Cumulative translate difference  
 
These are originate from exchange differences arising from the translation of any investment in 
foreign entities (or Chilean investment with a functional currency different to that of the parent), 
and from loans and other instruments in foreign currency designated as hedges for such 
investments. When the investment (all or part) is sold or disposed and a loss of control occurs, these reserves are shown in the consolidated statement of income as part of the loss or  gain on the sale or 
disposal. If the sale does not involve loss of control, these reserves are transferred to non -
controlling interests.  
 
(f.2)     Cash flow hedging reserve 
 These are originate from the fair value valuation at the end of each period of t he outstanding 
derivative contracts that have been defined as cash flow hedges. When these contracts expire, these reserves should be adjusted, and the corresponding results recognized.  
 
(f.3) Reserves of actuarial gains or losses on defined benefit plans  
 
Correspond to the increase or decrease in the obligation present value for defined benefit plan due to changes in actuarial assumptions, and experience adjustments, which are the effects of 
differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and the ac tual events.  
  97 
 (g) Retained earnings/(losses)  
Movement of Retained earnings/(losses):  
From January 1 to December 31, 2020 352,272From January 1 to December 31, 2019 218,971 (57,129)  - 
 - 190,430
(4,545,887)  - (4,193,615)  - Closing
balance
 - 352,272(decreases)increase 
ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$Other 
Opening  for the 
Periods balance periodIncrease
(decrease) by
new standardsResult
Dividends
(h) Dividends per share  
 
Description of dividend
Date of dividend
Amount of the dividend (ThUS$)Number of shares among which the dividend is distributedDividend per share (US$)12-31-2019Minimum mandatory 
dividend
2019Minimum mandatory 
dividend
2020
-
606,407,693
-57,129
606,407,693
0.094212-31-2020
 
 
NOTE 26 - REVENUE  
 
The detail of revenues is as follows : 
 
2,713,774
10,070,0632019
ThUS$
9,005,629
1,064,434For the year ended
December 31,
2020
TotalCargoPassengers
3,923,667ThUS$
1,209,893
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
244 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 202098 
 NOTE 27 - COSTS  AND EXPENSES BY NATURE 
 
(a) Costs and operating expenses 
The main operating costs and administrative expenses are detailed below:  
For the year ended
December 31,
2020 2019
ThUS$ ThUS$
Aircraft fuel 1,045,343 2,929,008
Other rentals and landing fees (*) 720,005 1,275,859
       Total 3,648,511 6,424,587Passenger services 97,688 261,330
Other operating expenses 1,221,183 1,291,895Aircraft maintenance 472,382 444,611
Comisions 91,910 221,884
 
(*) Lease expenses are included within this amount (See Note 2.21)  
Payments for leases of low-value assets
Rent concessions recognized directly in profit or loss
Total 21,068 31,98221,178 31,982
(110)  - 2020 2019
ThUS$ ThUS$For the period ended
December 31,
 
(b) Depreciation and amortization  
Depreciation and amortization are detaile d below:  
 
Depreciation (*) 1,219,586 1,389,465
Amortization 169,800 80,511
       Total 1,389,386 1,469,976For the year ended
December 31,
2020
ThUS$2019
ThUS$
 
(*) Included within this a mount is the depreciation of the Properties, plants and equipment (See 
Note 17 (a)) and the maintenance of the aircraft recognized as assets by right of use. The 
maintenance cost amount included in the depreciation line for the year ended December 31, 2020  is 
ThUS $ 276,908 and ThUS $ 445,680 for the same year 2019.  99 
 (c) Financial costs  
 
The detail of financial costs is as follows:  
 
Lease liabilities 170,918 181,814314,468
45,245325,650
61,980For the year ended
December 31,
2020
ThUS$2019
ThUS$
       Total 586,979 589,934Other financial instruments 56,348 20,490Financial leasesBank loan interest
 
 
Costs and expenses by nature presented in this Note plus the Employee expenses disclosed  in          
Note 23,  are equivalent to the sum of cost of sales, distribution costs, administrative expenses, other 
expenses and financing costs presented in the consolidated statement of income by function.  
 
(d) Restructuring activities expenses  
The Restructuring activities expenses are detailed below:  
 
Legal and financial advice
Others2020
ThUS$2019
ThUS$For the year ended
290,831  - Employee restructuring plan (*)Fair value adjustment of fleet available for sale
Rejection of aircraft lease contract 269,467  - 331,522  - 
76,541  - 
21,648  - December 31,
       Total 990,009  - 
 
(*) See note 2.1, letter c.  
(e) Other (gains) losses  
 
Other (gains) lo sses are detailed below: 
 
Goodwill Impairment
       Total 1,874,789 (11,525)Other (17,569) (11,525)For the year ended
2020
ThUS$2019
ThUS$
Provision for onerous contract related to purchase commitmentSlot Write OffFuel hedging
1,728,975  - 44,000  - 82,487
36,896 - 
 - December 31,
 
245 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020100 
 NOTE 28 - OTHER INCOME, BY FUNC TION  
Other income, by function is as follows : 
       Total 411,002For the year ended
December 31,
2020
ThUS$
Tours 22,499
Other miscellaneous income (*) 255,828Aircraft leasing 46,045
MaintenanceCustoms and warehousing
Duty free29,353
543
10,471
41,833
360,86425,138
 - 
18,579
Income from non-airlines products Latam Pass 42,913 42,7912019
ThUS$
36,172
96,997
102,704Coalition and loyalty program Multiplus  - 
 
(*) For 2020 included in this amount is ThUS$ 62,000 from compensation of the cancellation of the 
purchase of 4 A350 aircraft from Delta Air Lines Inc and ThUS$ 9,240 to the early return of leased 
aircraft f rom Qatar Airways and ThUS$ 132,467 corresponding to compensation of Delta Air Lines 
Inc from JBA signed in 2019.  
 
NOTE 29 - FOREIGN CURRENCY AND EXCHANGE RATE DIFFERENCES  
The functional curr ency of LATAM Airlines Group S.A. is the US dollar, also it has subsidiaries 
whose functional currency is different to the US dollar, such as the chilean peso, argentine peso, 
colombian peso, brazilian real and guaraní.  
 
The functional currency is defined as the currency of the primary economic environment in which 
an entity operates and in each entity and all other currencies are defined as foreign currency.  
 
Considering the above, the balances by currency mentioned in this Note correspond to the sum of foreign currency of each of the entities that make LATAM Airlines Group S.A. and Subsidiaries.  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 101 
 Following are the current exchange rates for the US dollar, on the dates indicated:  
4,01
748,74
3.271,55
0,89Argentine peso
Brazilian real
Chilean peso
Colombian peso84,14
5,18
710,95
3.421,002020 2019
59,83As of December 31,
Euro 0,81
Australian dollar
Boliviano1,30
6,861,43
6,86
Mexican peso
New Zealand dollar 1,3919,93 18,89
1,49
3,31 Peruvian Sol
Uruguayan peso3,62
42,14 37,24 
 Foreign currency  
The foreign currency detail of balances of monetary items in current and  non-current assets is as 
follows:  
985242,624
10,974
9,407
65,991
47,328
7
26,008
13850,421
5,971
21,927
77,933      Chilean peso
      Colombian peso
17,395
2,7951,867  - 
      Other currency      Colombian peso
      U.S. dollar      Euro
      Chilean peso      Other currency
      Argentine peso      U.S. dollar
Other financial assets, current
      Brazilian real
      EuroCurrent assets
ThUS$
5,63938,909
12,981December 31,
ThUS$
1322020
311
3,987483,303
      Argentine peso
      Brazilian realCash and cash equivalentsAs of 
2019December 31,
1,041As of 
13,157
32,368
2,168
10,361
369,45516,885
4
 
246 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020102 
 Current assets
227,375
6,769
57,780
343,784
160,3835,140
17,175
22,809
1,457
125,342
545
32,711
257,421
3,359
39,500
476,605
68,74613,465
91,620389
887
1,003
675
235
354
5,220
2,287430
9 42209
24,370
98,385
11,050      U.S. dollar 421 49560,721      Brazilian real
      Chilean pesoOther non - financial assets, current 42,973 81,521
      Argentine peso 11,058
2,985
15,91311,263
20,553
24,451
      Chilean peso
      Colombian peso
537      Colombian peso
177,491 Trade and other accounts receivable, current
Accounts receivable from related entities, current
      Euro 26454      Other currency      U.S. dollar      Euro
      Argentine peso
      Brazilian real
19,506841
38,3401,881
Tax current assets      Chilean pesoAs of 
December 31,
2019
501,0062020
ThUS$ ThUS$December 31,As of 
175
2,667
2,351
7,82461
2,878
Other currency      Euro
      U.S. dollar
      Other currency
1,111
1,804
U.S. DollarColombian peso
EuroChilean peso      Chilean peso      Argentine peso 1,560
      Brazilian real 1,006
Argentine peso
Brazilian real      U.S. dollar      Colombian peso
 - 
Peruvian sun 13,707
17,874728,228 892,522      Other currency
Total current assets
30,524 46,613
49,818
  103 
 Non-current assets
Other financial assets, non-current
      Brazilian real
      Chilean peso
      Colombian peso
      Euro
      U.S. dollar
Other currency
Other non - financial assets, non-current
      Argentine peso
      Brazilian real
      U.S. dollar
Other currency
Accounts receivable, non-current
Chilean peso
Deferred tax assets
Colombian peso
U.S. dollar
Other currency
Total  non-current assets 
      Argentine peso
      Brazilian real
      Chilean peso
      Colombian peso
      Euro
      U.S. dollar
Other currency54
7,891
24,96154
12,332
4,787
783
1,525
3,02810,243
29,1664,441
65
296
1,525
2,169
1,747As of 
December 31,
2019
ThUS$
2,490
1,700
36,251As of 
December 31,
2020
ThUS$
9,486
3,574
69
284
1,369
2,228
221
1,9943,732
19,506
1,99648739
12,974
13 8564,7223
21,218
4,722 4,984
4,984
47,4703,339
39
23,20016,548
5,053
505
1,369
6,23552,949
247 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020104 
 The foreign currency detai l of balances of monetary items in current liabilities and non -current is as 
follows:  
Trade and other accountsOther currency 161
128
48 - 
163
9 43Euro 87 145 258 339
U.S. dollar 198,996 26,676 15,504 194,896
Mexican peso
Accounts payable to related entities, current (229) 53  -  - 
29  - 12024,197
5,233
20,289
1,018
55,334Pound sterling
13745
 - 
Chilean peso  - 53  -  - 
U.S. dollar (229)  -  -  - Other currencyU.S. dollar
Peruvian sol
Uruguayan peso222
60480,129 4,263
1,447
33
119
29Chilean peso
Colombian peso
Euro322,996
2,558
113,7331,295
868
484 payables, current 1,285,233 1,338,123 20,908 10,091
Argentine peso
Brazilian real252,799
59,8371,096
320Other financial liabilities, current 239,712 69,623 86,573 210,627
Chilean peso 40,552 42,625 70,639 15,229Argentine peso
Brazilian real2
592
118Current liabilities December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31,
2020 2019 2020 2019Up to 90 days 91 days to 1 year
As of As of As of As of 
ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$
228,069
71,446
312,921
12,300
143,780
392,914
11,759
16,54610,991
1,165
417,315
37
912
35,269
441
59,788
Other currency 14 2,052 1,599  - Other provisions, current 14 2,079 1,628  - 
Chilean peso  - 27
 105 
 Up to 90 days 91 days to 1 year
As of As of As of As of 
ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$Current liabilities December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31,
2020 2019 2020 2019
Other non-financial
liabilities, current 42,467 19,335 50  - 
Argentine peso  -  - 
Brazilian real 3  - 961
976348
1,537
Chilean peso 1  - 
Colombian peso 38  - 5,836
622705
3,059
Euro  -  - 
U.S. dollar  -  - 3,206
19,7073,133
4,531
Other currency 8  - 11,159 6,022
Total current liabilities 1,567,596 1,429,213 109,159 220,718
Argentine peso 229,032 7,315 253,148 1,098
Brazilian real
Chilean peso72,481
359,309203
81,66061,502
366,406438
16,524
Colombian peso
Euro12,922
147,0731,203
2995,617
117,011868
823
199,159
1,808 Other currencyU.S. dollar 611,787
134,99216,416
2,063511,336
114,193 
 
248 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020106 
 Provisions for  - 
 - 
 - 40
141
135 - 
 - 
 - 2,930
 -  - 398,199 369,525
U.S. dollar 6,252 6,094  -  -  -  -  - 47,752Brazillian real
Euro
Chilean peso
U.S. dollar
Other currency
401,390
1,390
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  - 
 - 
 - 
 - 366,889
128,820180,150 236,346 1,320
Other currency351
 -  -  - 
 - 
 -  - 21,051
1,342
45,834
696
 - 
 -  - 
64,152376,535
7,010
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  - 
 - 
 - 12,915
10,3082,291
 -  - 
404,082
 - 
 -  - 
 - 
5,642
 - 403,841
5,642
241
241
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
398,440Euro
Argentine pesoemployees benefits, non-current
Colombian pesoChilean peso36,615
485
 - 
 - 
2,710 -  - 
331,34111,736 - 20,538
9,217
635,386
485
21,238
7,010
 - Chilean peso
Euro
U.S. dollar
Other currencyBrazilian realTotal non-current liabilities
 - 
2,930 10,308141 9,767
270,455
135376,535
 - 
 - 
369,525
 - 
 - 80,628  - 
292,054
12,163
1,819278 281  - 64,152 80,628  - 
114,583
1,454More than 3 to 5 years
As of More than 5 years
As of 
December 31,As of 
December 31,
2020 2019As of 
December 31,
2020December 31,
2019Non-current liabilities
Other financial liabilities, non-current
Accounts payable, non-currentU.S. dollarChilean pesoMore than 1 to 3 years
As of 
December 31,
2019
ThUS$As of 
December 31,
2020
ThUS$
151,254427
112700
550
473ThUS$ ThUS$ ThUS$
4,250
Colombian peso 278 281  -  -  -  - 70,145268,320
87,280ThUS$
26,87214,367
135,541
1,346
Other provisions, non-current
Argentine peso
Brazillian real
 -  -  - U.S. dollar  -  - 
5,640 12,915
 - 
2,291448,451
696
27,223
 
249 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020107 
 67,389117,955
(208,064)
(21,068)
(853,925)751,358159,535
786
(68,437)
(651,456)(1,037,500)(65,485)(206,480)138,509
(46,563)(268,518)(118,666)(10,539)14,403482,84040,8693,864
1,134,17399,907237,0432,534,92891,946
Chilean peso
Colombian pesoAs of 
Argentine peso
Brazilian realTotal assetsGeneral summary of foreign currency:
ThUS$2020December 31,
781,177
34,42230,563
96,673
Total liabilitiesOther currency
Brazilian realArgentine pesoAs of 
Chilean peso
Colombian peso
Euro
U.S. dollarDecember 31,
2019
ThUS$
939,992
46,667
62,150
Other currencyEuro
U.S. dollar
Other currency
Argentine peso
Brazilian real
Chilean peso
Colombian peso
Euro
U.S. dollarNet position232,162
7,552
59,305
346,812
6,766
127,742
998,268185,344
2,674,767
254,731
83,218
1,086,087
 
 108 
 NOTE 30 - EARNINGS / (LOSS) PER SHARE  
 
December 31,
2020
(7.49642)(4,545,887)
606,407,693
606,407,693190,430
606,407,693
606,407,693
0.31403For the year ended
December 31,
2020 2019
Diluted earnings / (loss) per share (US$)Earnings / (loss) attributable to  
owners of the parent (ThUS$)
Weighted average number
of shares, basic
Basic earnings / (loss) per share (US$)
owners of the parent (ThUS$)
Weighted average number
of shares, basic
Weighted average number
of shares, dilutedBasic earnings / (loss) per share
Diluted earnings / (loss) per share
Earnings / (loss) attributable to  606,407,693
(7.49642)190,430
606,407,693
0.31403(4,545,887)
2019For the year ended
 
 
  
 
 
250 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020109 
 
 NOTE 31 – CONTINGENCIES  
 
I. Lawsuits  
 
1) Lawsuits filed by LATAM Airlines Group S.A. and Subsidiaries  
 
Company  Court  Case Number  Origin  Stage of trial  Amounts  
Committed (*) 
ThUS $ 
 
Fidelidade 
Viagens e 
Turismo  
  
Fazenda Pública do Município de São 
Paulo.   
1004194 -
37.2018.8.26.0053 (EF 
1526893 -
48.2018.8.26.0090)   
This is a voidance action appealing the charges for 
violations and fines (67.168.795 / 67.168.833 / 
67.168.884 / 67.168.906 / 67.168.91 4 / 67.168.965).  We 
are arguing that numbers are missing from the ISS 
calculation base since the company supposedly made 
improper deductions.   
The lawsuit was assigned on January 31, 2018.  That same day, a 
decision was rendered suspending the charges wit hout any bond. 
The municipality filed an appeal against this decision on April 30, 
2018. On November 11, 2019 there was a totally favorable 
decision for Tam Viagens S.A. The Municipio filed an appeal that 
is pending.   
84,652 
 
      
LATAM Airlines 
Group S .A., 
Aerovías de 
Integración 
Regional S.A., 
LATAM Airlines Perú S.A., Latam -
Airlines Ecuador S.A., LAN Cargo 
S.A., TAM Linhas 
Aereas S.A. and 
32 affiliates  
 United States 
Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York  
 Case No. 20 -11254  
 LATAM Airl ines initiated a reorganization proceeding in 
the United States of America in accordance with the regulations established in Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the Code of the United States of America, filing a voluntary 
request for relief pursuant thereto (the “Ch
apter 11 
Proceeding”), which grants an automatic stay of 
enforcement for at least 180 days.  
 On May 26, 2020, LATAM Airlines Group S.A. and 28 affiliates 
individually filed a voluntary bankruptcy petition with the United 
States Bankruptcy Court for the Sou thern District of New York 
pursuant to Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. 
Subsequently, on July 7 and 9, 2020, 9 additional affiliated 
debtors (the “Subsequent Debtors”), including TAM Linhas Aereas S.A., filed voluntary bankruptcy applicatio ns with the 
Court pursuant to Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. The cases are pending ruling before the Honorable Judge 
James L. Garrity Jr. and are jointly administered under case 
number 20 -11254. On September 18, 2020, LATAM Airlines 
Group  S.A. received approval of the amended proposal on Debtor 
in Possession (DIP) financing submitted September 17, 2020 to the United States District Court for the Southern District of New 
York. The Court issued an order setting December 18, 2020 as the gener al deadline by which LATAM’s creditors can present proof 
of claim, except for certain litigants in Brazil, who can present proof of claim through February 5, 2021.  The judge also extended the period during which LATAM has the exclusive right to present 
a reorganization plan to January 29, 2021
 On January 27, 2021, 
the Court approved the extension for the period for exclusively 
filing the reorganization plan until June 30, 2021. Currently, 
various hearings have been held, the process is in force.  
 -0- 
 
251 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020110 
 
  
Company  
 
 
LATAM Airlines 
Group S.A.  
 Court  
 
 
2° Juzgado Civil de 
Santiago  
 Case Number  
 
 
C-8553 -2020  
 Origin  
 
 
Request for recognition of the foreign reorganization 
proceeding.  
 Stage of trial  
 
 
On June 1, 2020, LATAM Airlines Group SA, in its capacity as 
foreign representative of the reorganization procedure under the 
rules of Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the United States Code, filed the 
request for recognition of the foreign reorganization proceeding as 
the main proceeding, pursuant to Law 20,720. On June 4,  2020, 
the Court issued the ruling recognizing in Chile the bankruptcy 
proceeding for the foreign reorganization of the company LATAM 
Airlines Group S.A. All remedies filed against the decision have 
been dismissed, so the decision is final. Currently the p roceeding 
remains open.  
 Amounts  
Committed (*) 
ThUS $ 
 
-0- 
      
Aerovías de 
Integración 
Regional S.A.  
 Superintendencia de 
Sociedades  
 - Request for recognition of the foreign reorganization 
proceeding.  
 On June 12, 2020, the Superintendency of Companie s recognized 
in Colombia the reorganization proceeding filed before the 
Bankruptcy Court of the United States of America for the 
Southern District of New York as a main process, under the terms 
of Title III of Law 1116 of 2006.  On October 2, 2020, the 
Comp anies Commission of Colombia acknowledged the decision 
adopted September 18, 2020, by the United States District Court 
for the Southern District of New York that approved the Debtor in 
Possession financing proposal submitted by LATAM Airlines 
Group S.A. an d the companies that voluntarily petitioned for 
Chapter 11, including the Colombian companies.  
 -0- 
 
252 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020111 
 
  
Company  Court  Case Number  Origin  Stage of trial  Amounts  
Committed (*) 
ThUS $ 
LATAM Airlines 
Perú S.A  INDECOPI  
 - Request for a preventive bankruptcy pr ocess.  
 On May 27, 2020, LATAM Airlines Peru submitted a request for 
a preventive bankruptcy process before the Indecopi of Peru and is 
awaiting admission.  
 -0- 
      
LATAM Finance 
Limited  
 Grand Court of the 
Cayman Islands  
 - Request for a provisional b ankruptcy process.  
 On May 26, 2020, LATAM Finance Limited submitted a request 
for a provisional liquidation, covered in the reorganization 
proceeding filed before the Bankruptcy Court of the United States 
of America, which was accepted on May 27, 2020 by the Grand 
Court of the Cayman Islands. Currently the proceeding remains 
open.  -0- 
      
Peuco Finance 
Limited  
 Grand Court of the 
Cayman Islands  
 - Request for a provisional bankruptcy process.  
 
 On May 26, 2020, Peuco Finance Limited submitted a request  for 
a provisional liquidation, covered in the reorganization proceeding 
filed before the Bankruptcy Court of the United States of America, 
which was accepted on May 27, 2020 by the Grand Court of the 
Cayman Islands. Currently the proceeding remains open.  -0- 
      
Piquero Leasing 
Limited  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Peuco Finance 
Limited  
 
 
 
 
LATAM Finance 
Limited  
 Grand Court of the 
Cayman Islands  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Grand Court of the 
Cayman Islands  
 
 
 
 
Grand Court of the 
Cayman Islands  
 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
 
 
 
 
 
- Request for a provisional bankrupt cy process.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A petition for a provisional liquidation.  
 
 
 
 
 
A petition for a provisional liquidation.  On July 07, 2020, Piquero Leasing Limited submitted a request for 
a provisional liquidation, covered in the reorganization proceeding 
filed before  the Bankruptcy Court of the United States of America, 
which was accepted on July 10, 2020, by the Grand Court of the 
Cayman Islands. Currently the proceeding remains open.  
 
 
 
On September 28, 2020, Peuco Finance Limited filed a petition to 
suspend the liq uidation. On October 9, 2020, the Grand Court of 
Cayman Islands accepted the petition and extended the status of 
temporary liquidation for a period of 6 months. The lawsuit 
continues to be active.  
 
On September 28, 2020, LATAM Finance Limited filed a petit ion 
to suspend the liquidation. On October 9, 2020, the Grand Court 
of Cayman Islands accepted the petition and extended the status of 
temporary liquidation for a period of 6 months. The lawsuit 
continues to be active.  -0- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-0- 
 
 
 
 
 
-0- 
 
 
 
 
 
253 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020112 
 
 2) Lawsui ts received by LATAM Airlines Group S.A. and Subsidiaries.  
 
Company  Court  Case Number  Origin  Stage of trial  Amounts  
Committed (*) 
ThUS$  
 
LATAM Airlines 
Group S.A. y Lan 
Cargo S.A.   
European Commission .   
Investigation of alleged infringements to free  
competition of cargo airlines, especially fuel 
surcharge. On December 26th, 2007, the General 
Directorate for Competition of the European 
Commission notified Lan Cargo S.A. and 
LATAM Airlines Group S.A. the instruction 
process against twenty five cargo ai rlines, 
including Lan Cargo S.A., for alleged breaches of 
competition in the air cargo market in Europe, 
especially the alleged fixed fuel surcharge and 
freight.   
On April 14th, 2008, the notification of the European Commission 
was replied.                       The appeal was filed on               January 
24, 2011.  
On May 11, 2015, we attended a hearing at which we petitioned for 
the vacation of the Decision based on discrepancies in the Decision 
between the operating section, which mentions four infring ements 
(depending on the routes involved) but refers to Lan in only one of 
those four routes; and the ruling section (which mentions one single 
conjoint infraction).  
On November 9th, 2010, the General Directorate for Competition 
of the European Commission  notified Lan Cargo S.A. and LATAM 
Airlines Group S.A. the imposition of a fine in the amount of 
THUS$10,072 (8.220.000 Euros)  
This fine is being appealed by Lan Cargo S.A. and LATAM 
Airlines Group S.A.  On December 16, 2015, the European Court 
of Justice revoked the Commission’s decision because of 
discrepancies. The European Commission did not appeal the 
decision, but presented a new one on March 17, 2017 reiterating the 
imposition of the same fine on the eleven original airlines.  The fine 
totals 776,465 ,000 Euros.  It imposed the same fine as before on 
Lan Cargo and its parent, LATAM Airlines Group S.A., totaling 
8.2 million Euros. On May 31, 2017 Lan Cargo S.A. and LATAM 
Airlines Group S.A. filed a petition with the General Court of the 
European Union s eeking vacation of this decision. We presented 
our defense in December 2017. On July 12, 2019, we attended a 
hearing before the European Court of Justice to confirm our 
petition for vacation of judgment or otherwise, a reduction in the 
amount of the fine.  LATAM AIRLINES GROUP, S.A. expects 
that the ruling  by the General Court of the European Union may 
reduce the amount of this fine. On December 17, 2020, the 
European Commission submitted proof of claim for the total 
amount of the fine (KUS$10,072 or €8,220,000) to the New York 
Court hearing the Chapter 11 procedure petitioned by LATAM 
Airlines Group, S.A. and LAN Cargo, S.A. in May 2020.  
 
  
10,072  
 
 
 
254 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020113 
 
  
Company  Court Case Number  
 Origin  Stage of trial  Amounts  
Committed 
(*) 
ThUS $ 
      
Lan Cargo S.A. y 
LATAM Airlines 
Group S.A.  In the High Court of 
Justice Chancery División (England) Ovre Romerike District Court (Norway) y 
Directie Juridische Zaken 
Afdeling Ceveil Recht 
(Netherlands), Cologne 
Regional Court 
(Landgerich Köln 
Germany).  
  Lawsuits filed against European airlines by users of 
freight serv ices in private lawsuits as a result of the 
investigation into alleged breaches of competition of cargo airlines, especially fuel surcharge. Lan Cargo 
S.A. and LATAM Airlines Group S.A., have been 
sued in court proceedings directly and/or in third party, b ased in England, Norway, the Netherlands 
and Germany.  Cases are in the uncovering evidence stage. In the case in England, 
mediation was held with nearly all the airlines involved in the aim of attempting to reach an agreement. It began in September, and LA TAM 
Airlines Group S.A. reached an agreement for approximately GBP 
636,000.  A settlement was signed in December 2018 and payment was 
made in January 2019.  This lawsuit ended for all plaintiffs in the class action, except for one who signed a settlement f or approximately GBP 
222,469.63 in December 2019.  The payment was made in January 2020 and concluded the entire lawsuit in England.  The amount remains 
undetermined for the lawsuits in the remaining countries (Norway, the 
Netherlands and Germany). In the case of Germany, the suspension of 
the case has been requested, relying on the financial reorganization 
procedure requested by LATAM Airlines Group, S.A. and LAN 
CARGO, S.A. in the United States (Chapter 11) in May 2020. The 
German Court has not yet ruled on this request. DB Barnsdale AG; 
British Airways; KLM; Martinair; Air France; Lufthansa; Lufthansa 
Cargo and Swiss Air filed a claim with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court 
before the deadline that creditors had to present their Chapter 11 claims, 
which must be pr ocessed accordingly . -0- 
      
Aerolinhas 
Brasileiras S.A.  Federal Justice.  0008285 -
53.2015.403.6105  An action seeking to quash a decision and petioning 
for early protection in order to obgain a revocation of 
the penalty imposed by the Brazilian Competi tion 
Authority (CADE) in the investigation of cargo 
airlines alleged fair trade violations, in particular the 
fuel surcharge.  This action was filed by presenting a guaranty – policy – in order to 
suspend the effects of the CADE’s decision regarding the pay ment of 
the following fines: (i) ABSA: ThUS$10,438; (ii) Norberto Jochmann: 
ThUS$201; (iii) Hernan Merino: ThUS$ 102; (iv) Felipe Meyer:ThUS$ 
102. The action also deals with the affirmative obligation required by 
the CADE consisting of the duty to publish the condemnation in a 
widely circulating newspaper.  This obligation had also been stayed by 
the court of federal justice in this process.  Awaiting CADE’s statement. 
ABSA began a judicial review in search of an additional reduction in 
the fine amount.  Th e Judge’s decision was published on March 12, 
2019, and we filed an appeal against it on March 13, 2019  8,353  
 
      
Aerolinhas 
Brasileiras S.A.  Federal Justice.  0001872 -
58.2014.4.03.6105  An annulment action with a motion for preliminary 
injunction, was filed on 28/02/2014, in order to 
cancel tax debts of PIS, CONFINS, IPI and II, 
connected with the administrative process 
10831.005704/2006.43.  We have been waiting since August 21, 2015 for a statement by Serasa 
on TAM’s letter of indemnity and a statement  by the Union. The 
statement was authenticated on January 29, 2016. A new insurance policy was submitted on March 30, 2016 with the change to the guarantee requested by PGFN. On 05/20/2016 the process was sent to 
PGFN, which was manifested on 06/03/2016.  The Decision denied the 
company's request in the lawsuit. The court (TRF3) made a decision to 
eliminate part of the debt and keep the other part (already owed by the Company, but which it has to pay only at the end of the process: 
KUS$3,283 – R$17,063,902.35 ). We must await a decision on the 
Treasury appeal.  8,875  
 
  
 
 
 
 
255 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020114 
 
  
Company  Court Case Number  Origin  Stage of trial  Amounts  
Committed (*)  
ThUS $ 
      
Tam  Linhas 
Aéreas S.A.  Court of the Second 
Region.  2001.51.01.012530 -0 Ordinary judicial action bro ught for the purpose of 
declaring the nonexistence of legal relationship 
obligating the company to collect the Air Fund.  
 Unfavorable court decision in first instance. Currently expecting 
the ruling on the appeal filed by the company.  
In order to suspend c hargeability of Tax Credit a Guaranty Deposit 
to the Court was delivered for R$ 260.223.373,10 -original amount 
in 2012/2013, which currently equals THUS$63,256. The court decision requesting that the Expert make all clarifications requested 
by the parties in a period of 30 days was published on March 29, 
2016.  The plaintiffs’ submitted a petition on June 21, 2016 
requesting acceptance of the opinion of their consultant and an 
urgent ruling on the dispute. No amount additional to the deposit 
that has alread y been made is required if this case is lost.  68,821  
      
Tam Linhas  
Aéreas S.A.  Internal Revenue Service 
of Brazil.  10880.725950/2011 -05 Compensation credits of the Social Integration 
Program (PIS) and Contribution for Social 
Security Financing (COFIN S) Declared on 
DCOMPs.  
   The objection (manifestação de inconformidade) filed by the 
company was rejected, which is why the voluntary appeal was filed.  The case was assigned to the 1st Ordinary Group of Brazil’s 
Administrative Council of Tax Appeals (CAR F) on June 8, 2015.  
TAM’s appeal was included in the CARF session held August 25, 
2016. An agreement that converted the proceedings into a formal 
case was published on October 7, 2016. The amount has been 
reduced after some set -offs were approved by the D epartment of 
Federal Revenue of Brazil.   20,732 
 
   
256 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020115 
 
 Company  Court Case 
Number  Origin  Stage of trial  Amounts  
Committed (*)  
ThUS $ 
      
Aerovías de 
Integración 
Regional,                
AIRES S.A.  United States Court of 
Appeals for the Eleventh 
Circu it, Florida, U.S.A.  
45th Civil Court of the 
Bogota Circuit in 
Colombia.   2013 -20319 
CA 01  The July 30th, 2012 Aerovías de Integración 
Recional, Aires S.A. (LATAM AIRLINES 
COLOMBIA) initiated a legal process in Colombia against Regional One INC and Volvo A ero Services 
LLC, to declare that these companies are civilly liable for moral and material damages caused to LATAM 
AIRLINES COLOMBIA arising from breach of 
contractual obligations of the aircraft HK -4107.  
The June 20th, 2013 AIRES SA And / Or LATAM AIRLIN ES COLOMBIA was notified of the lawsuit 
filed in U.S. for Regional One INC and Dash 224 LLC for damages caused by the aircraft HK -4107 
arguing failure of LATAM AIRLINES GROUP S.A. 
customs duty to obtain import declaration when the 
aircraft in April 2010 en
tered Colombia for 
maintenance required by Regional One.  
  Colombia. This case is being heard by the 45th Civil Court of the Bogota Circuit in 
Colombia.  Statements were taken from witnesses presented by REGIONAL ONE and VAS on February 12, 2018.  The cour t received the expert opinions requested by 
REGIONAL ONE and VAS and given their petition, it asked the experts to expand 
upon their opinions. It also changed the experts requested by LATAM AIRLINES 
COLOMBIA. The case was brought before the Court on Septem ber 10, 2018 and these 
rulings are pending processing so that a new hearing can be scheduled. On October 31, 
2018, the judge postponed the deadline for the parties to answer the objection because 
of a serious error brought to light by VAS regarding the tra nslation submitted by the 
expert. The process has been in the judge’s chambers since March 11, 2019 to decide 
on replacing the damage estimation expert as requested by LATAM AIRLINES 
COLOMBIA.  The one previously appointed did not take office.  A petition has also 
been made by VAS objecting to the translation of the documents in English into 
Spanish due to serious mistakes, which was served to the parties in October 2018. The 
45th Civil Circuit Court issued an order on August 13, 2019 that did not decide on  the 
pending matters but rather voided all actions since September 14, 2018 and ordered the case to be referred to the 46th Civil Circuit Court according to article 121 of the 
General Code of Procedure.  Said article says that court decisions must be rende red in 
no more than one (1) year as from the service of the court order admitting the claim.  If 
that period expires without any ruling being issued, the Judge will automatically forfeit 
competence over the proceedings and must give the Administrative Room  of the 
Superior Council of the Judiciary notice of that fact the next day, in addition to referring the case file to the next sitting judge in line, who will have competence and will issue a ruling in no more than 6 months.  The case was sent to the 46th Civil 
Circuit Court on September 4, 2019, which claims that there was a competence conflict and then sent the case to the Superior Court of Bogotá to decide which court, the 45th or 46th, had to continue with the case.  The Court decided that 45
th Civil Cir cuit Court 
should continue with the case, so this Court on 01/15/2020 has reactivated the procedural process ordering the transfer to the parties of the objection presented by VAS for serious error of the translation to Spanish of documents provided in Eng lish. 
On 02/24/2020 it declares that the parties did not rule on the objection presented by VAS and requires the plaintiff to submit an expert opinion of damages corresponding to the claims of the lawsuit through its channel. Since 03/16/20 a suspension of  terms 
is filed in Courts due to the pandemic.  Judicial terms were reactivated on July 1, 2020. 
On September 18, 2020, an expert opinion on damages was submitted that had been 
requested by the Court. The Court ordered service of the ruling to the parties o n 
December 12, 2020.  
 Florida. On June 4, 2019, the State Court of Florida allowed REGIONAL ONE to add 
a new claim against LATAM AIRLINES COLOMBIA for default on a verbal contract.  
Given the new claim, LATAM AIRLINES COLOMBIA petitioned that the Court 
postpone the trial to August 2019 to have the time to investigate the facts alleged by 
REGIONAL ONE to prove a verbal contract. The facts discovery phase continued, 
including the verbal statements of the experts of both sides, which have been taking place sin ce March 2020. Given the Covid -19 pandemic and the suspension of trials in 
the County of Miami -Dade, the Court canceled the trial scheduled for June 2020. In 
addition, the claims against Aires have been suspended given the request for reorganization filed by LATAM AIRLINES GROUP SA and some of its subsidiaries, 
including Aires, on May 26, 2020, under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. Dash and Regional One filed a claim with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in December 2020 before the deadline that c reditors had to present their Chapter 11 
claims, which must be processed accordingly.  12,443  
257 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020116 
 
  
Company  Court Case Number  Origin  Stage of trial  Amounts  
Committed (*) 
ThUS $ 
      
Tam Linhas 
Aéreas S.A.  
 Internal Revenue 
Service of Brazil  10880.722.355 /20
14-52 On August 19th, 2014 the Federal Tax Service 
issued a notice of violation stating that 
compensation credits Program (PIS) and the 
Contribution for the Financing of Social Security 
COFINS by TAM are not directly related to the 
activity of air trans port. 
 An administrative objection was filed on September 17th, 2014. A first -instance 
ruling was rendered on June 1, 2016 that was partially favorable.  The separate fine was revoked. A voluntary appeal was filed on June 30, 2016, which is pending a 
decis ion by CARF. On September 9, 2016, the case was referred to the Second 
Division, Fourth Chamber, of the Third Section of the Administrative Council of 
Tax Appeals (CARF). In September 2019, the Court rejected the appeal of the 
Hacienda Nacional. Hacienda N acional filed a complaint that was denied by the 
Court.  52,024  
      
TAM Linhas 
Aéreas S.A.  
   
 
 TAM Linhas 
Aéreas S.A.  
 
 Sao Paulo Labor 
Court, Sao Paulo  
   
 
 Ministerio de Trabajo  
 1001531 -
73.2016.5.02.0710  
   
 
 0001734 -
78.2014.5.02.0045  
  The Ministry  of Labor filed an action seeking 
that the company adapt the ergonomics and 
comfort of seats.  
  
 
  
This action was filed by the Ministry of Labor 
seeking compliance with the laws on rest time, overtime and similar issues.  It is before the São 
Paulo Labor Court.  
 In August 2016, the Ministry of Labor filed a new lawsuit before the competent 
Labor Court in Sao Paulo, in the same terms as case 0000009 -45.2016.5.02.090, as 
previously reported, the hearing date is set for October 22, 2018.  We were served 
the d ecision completely dismissing the claim in March 2019, against which the 
plaintiff has filed an appeal.  We are now awaiting the hearing by the Court of 
Appeals.  
 
Initial stage.  It could potentially impact operations and control of employees’ 
working hours.  The case was won at the trial court level, but the Public Prosecutor 
appealed that decision, which failed at the appellate court level.  The Prosecutor then filed a motion requesting clarification that he later withdrew.  He proposed taking it as far a s the supreme court, but he did not go through with it.  The Prosecutor has 
filed a remedy internally that is pending a decision  by the Labor Supreme Court (TST).  
 15,260  
 
 
 
 
 
 
18,243 
 
      
LATAM Airlines 
Group S.A.  22° Civil Court of 
Santiago  C-29.945-2016  The Company received notice of a civil liability 
claim by Inversiones Ranco Tres S.A. on January 18, 2017.  It is represented by Mr. Jorge Enrique 
Said Yarur.  It was filed against LATAM 
Airlines Group S.A. for an alleged contractual default by the  
Company and against Ramon 
Eblen Kadiz, Jorge Awad Mehech, Juan Jose 
Cueto Plaza, Enrique Cueto Plaza and Ignacio 
Cueto Plaza, directors and officers, for alleged breaches of their duties.  In the case of Juan Jose 
Cueto Plaza, Enrique Cueto Plaza and Igna cio 
Cueto Plaza, it alleges a breach, as controllers of 
the Company, of their duties under the 
incorporation agreement.  LATAM has retained 
legal counsel specializing in this area to defend it. The claim was answered on March 22, 2017 and the plaintiff fil ed its replication on 
April 4, 2017.  LATAM filed its rejoinder on April 13, 2017, which concluded the argument stage of the lawsuit.  A reconciliation hearing was held on May 2, 2017, but the parties did not reach an agreement.   The Court issued the evid entiary decree 
on May 12, 2017.  We filed a petition for reconsideration because we disagreed with certain points of evidence.  That petition was partially sustained by the Court on June 27, 2017.  The evidentiary stage commenced and then concluded on July  20, 
2017.  Observations to the evidence must now be presented.  That period expires August 1, 2017.  We filed our observations to the evidence on August 1, 2017.  We were served the decision on December 13, 2017 that dismissed the claim since 
LATAM was in  no way liable.  The plaintiff filed an appeal on December 26, 2017.  
Arguments were pled before the Santiago Court of Appeals on April 23, 2019, and 
on April 30, 2019, this Court confirmed the ruling of the trial court absolving 
LATAM.  The losing party w as ordered to pay costs in both cases. On May 18, 
2019, Inversiones Ranco Tres S.A. filed a remedy of vacation of judgment based on 
technicalities and on substance against the Appellate Court decision.  The Appellate 
Court admitted both appeals on May 29, 2019 and the appeals are pending a hearing 
by the Supreme Court.  
 18,646  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
258 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020117 
 
  
Company  Court Case Number  Origin  Stage of trial  Amounts  
Committed (*) 
ThUS $ 
      
TAM Linhas 
Aéreas S.A.  
 
 10th Jurisdiction of Federal 
Tax  
Enforcement of Sao Paulo  0061196 -
68.2016.4.03.6182  
 Tax Enforcement Lien No. 0020869 -47.2017.4.03.6182 
on Profit -Based Social Contributions from 2004 to 2007.  This tax enforcement was referred to the 10th Federal Jurisdiction on 
February 16, 2017.  A petition reporting our reques t to submit collateral 
was recorded on April 18, 2017.  At this time, the period is pending for the plaintiff to respond to our petition. The bond was replaced. We are 
waiting for the evidentiary period to begin.  31,392  
      
TAM Linhas 
Aéreas S.A.  Depar tment of Federal 
Revenue of Brazil  5002912.29.2019.
4.03.6100  A lawsuit disputing the debit in the administrative 
proceeding 16643.000085/2009 -47, reported in previous 
notes, consisting of a notice demanding recovery of the Income and Social Assessment Tax 
on the net profit 
(SCL) resulting from the itemization of royalties and use 
of the TAM trademark  The lawsuit was assigned on February 28, 2019.  A decision was 
rendered on March 1, 2019 stating that no guarantee was required.  
Actualmente, debemos esperar la decisión final. On 04/06/2020 TAM 
Linhas Aéreas S.A. had a favorable decision (sentence). The National 
Treasury can appeal. Today, we await the final decision.  8,862   
      
TAM Linhas 
Aéreas S.A  
 Delegacía de Receita 
Federal  10611.720630/201
7-16 
 This is an administrative claim about a fine for the 
incorrectness of an import declaration.  The administrative defensive arguments were presented September 28, 
2017. The Court dismissed the Company’s appeal in August 2019.  
Then on September 17, 2019, Compa ny filed a special appeal (CRSF 
(Higher Tax Appeals Chamber)) that is pending a decision.  16,204  
 
      
TAM Linhas 
Aéreas S.A  
 Delegacía de Receita 
Federal  10611.720852/201
6-58 
 An improper charge of the Contribution for the Financing 
of Social Security  (COFINS) on an import  We are currently awaiting a decision.  There is no predictable decision 
date because it depends on the court of the government agency.  11,598  
      
TAM Linhas      
Aéreas S.A  
 
 Delegacía de Receita 
Federal  
 16692.721.933/20
17-80 The Internal Revenue Service of Brazil issued a notice of 
violation because TAM applied for credits offsetting the 
contributions for the Social Integration Program (PIS) and 
the Social Security Funding Contribution (COFINS) that 
do not bear a direct relation ship to air transport (Referring 
to 2012).  An administrative defense was presented on May 29, 2018.  24,926  
      
SNEA (Sindicato 
Nacional das 
empresas 
aeroviárias)  
 
 União Federal  
 0012177 -
54.2016.4.01.3400  
 A claim against the 72% increase in airport control fees 
(TAT -ADR) and approach control fees (TAT -APP) 
charged by the Airspace Control Department (“DECEA”).  A decision is now pending on the appeal presented by SNEA.  58,919  
      
TAM Linhas 
Aéreas S/A  
 União Federal  
 2001.51.01.02042
0-0 
 TAM and other airlines filed a recourse claim seeking a 
finding that there is no legal or tax basis to be released 
from collecting the Additional Airport Fee (“ATAERO”).  A decision by the superior court is pending. The amount is 
indeterminate because even though T AM is the plaintiff, if the ruling is 
against it, it could be ordered to pay a fee.  -0- 
 
      
TAM Linhas 
Aéreas S/A  
 Delegacia da Receita 
Federal  10880 -
900.424/2018 -07 
 This is a claim for a negative Legal Entity Income Tax 
(IRPJ) balance for the 2014 c alendar year (2015 fiscal 
year) because set -offs were not allowed.   The administrative defensive arguments were presented March 19, 
2018.  An administrative decision is now pending.  13,667  
      
TAM Linhas 
Aéreas S/A  
 Department of Federal 
Revenue of B razil  19515 -
720.823/2018 -11 
 An administrative claim to collect alleged differences in 
SAT payments for the periods 11/2013 to 12/2017.  A defense was presented on November 28, 2018. The Court dismissed 
the Company’s appeal in August 2019.  Then on Septemb er 17, 2019, 
Company filed a voluntary appeal (CRSF (Administrative Tax Appeals 
Board)) that is pending a decision.  95,878  
 
259 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020118 
 
 Company  Court Case Number  Origin  Stage of trial  Amounts  
Committed (*) 
ThUS $ 
      
TAM Linhas 
Aéreas S/A  
 Department of 
Federal Revenue 
of Brazil  10880.938832/20
13-19 
 The decision denied the reallocation petition  and did not equate 
the Social Security Tax (COFINS) credit declarations for the 
second quarter of 2011, which were determined to be in the non -
cumulative system  An administrative defense was argued on March 19, 2019. The Court 
dismissed the Company’s defense in December 2020.  The Company filed a voluntary appeal to the Brazilian Administrative Council of Tax 
Appeals (CARF) that is pending a decision.  12,815  
      
TAM Linhas 
Aéreas S/A  
 Department of 
Federal Revenue 
of Brazil  10880.938834/20
13-16 
 The decision denied the reallocation petition and did not equate the 
Social Security Tax (COFINS) credit declarations for the third quarter of 2011, which were determi ned to be in the non -
cumulative system.  An administrative defense was argued on March 19, 2019. The Court 
dismissed the Company’s defense in December 2020.  The Company filed a voluntary appeal to the Brazilian Administrative Council of Tax 
Appeals (CARF)  that is pending a decision.  9,370  
      
TAM Linhas 
Aéreas S/A  
 Department of 
Federal Revenue 
of Brazil  10880.938837/20
13-41 
 The decision denied the reallocation petition and did not equate the 
Social Security Tax (COFINS) credit declarations for the fourth 
quarter of 2011, which were determined to be in the non -
cumulative system.  An administrative defense was argued on March 19, 2019.  The Court 
dismissed the Company’s defense in December 2020.  The Company filed a voluntary appeal to the Brazilian A dministrative Council of Tax 
Appeals (CARF) that is pending a decision.  12,556  
      
TAM Linhas 
Aéreas S/A  
 Department of 
Federal Revenue 
of Brazil  10880.938838/20
13-96 
 The decision denied the reallocation petition and did not equate the 
Social Securi ty Tax (COFINS) credit declarations for the first 
quarter of 2012, which were determined to be in the non -
cumulative system.  We presented our administrative defense. The Court dismissed the 
Company’s defense in December 2020.  The Company filed a 
voluntar y appeal to the Brazilian Administrative Council of Tax 
Appeals (CARF) that is pending a decision.  8,665  
      
TAM Linhas 
Aéreas S/A  
 Department of 
Federal Revenue 
of Brazil  0012541 -
56.2016.5.03.0144  
 A class action in which the Union is petitioning th at TAM be 
ordered to make payment of the correct calculation of Sundays and 
holidays.  A hearing was set for December 17, 2019. On 04/30/2020, we were 
notified of the unfavorable court ruling in the first instance, filing an 
appeal. The Court of Appeals con firmed the trial court’s decision.  12,272  
      
LATAM Airlines 
Argentina  
 Commercial Trial 
Court No. 15 of 
Buenos Aires.  11479/2012  
 Proconsumer and Rafaella Cabrera filed a claim citing 
discriminating fees charged to foreign users as compared to 
domest ic users for services retained in Argentina.  The trial court judge dismissed Mrs. Cabrera’s claim on March 7, 2019 
and sustained the motion of lack of standing entered by Proconsumer.  The ruling was appealed by the plaintiff on April 8, 2019 and will be 
decided by Room D.  -0- 
 
      
LATAM Airlines 
Group Argentina, 
Brasil, Perú, 
Ecuador, y TAM 
Mercosur.  
 Commercial and 
Civil Trial Court No. 11 of Buenos 
Aires.  
 1408/2017  Consumidores Libres Coop. Ltda. filed this claim on March 14, 
2017 regarding a prov ision of services.  It petitioned for the 
reimbursement of certain fees or the difference in fees charged for passengers who purchased a ticket in the last 10 years but did not 
use it.  
 Federal Commercial and Civil Trial Court No. 11 in the city of Buenos 
Aires.  After two years of arguments on jurisdiction and competence, the claim was assigned to this court and an answer was filed on March 
19, 2019  -0- 
      
TAM Linhas 
Aéreas S.A  Department of 
Federal Revenue of Brazil  10.880.938842/20
13-54 The decision  denied the petition for reassignment and did not 
equate the CONFINS credit statements for the third quarter of 2012 that had been determined to be in the non -accumulative 
system.  We presented our administrative defense.  The Court dismissed the 
Company’s d efense in December 2020.  The Company filed a 
voluntary appeal to the Brazilian Administrative Council of Tax 
Appeals (CARF) that is pending a decision.  
 9,169  
      
TAM Linhas 
Aéreas S.A  Department of 
Federal Revenue 
of Brazil  10.880.93844/201
3-43 
 The decision denied the petition for reassignment and did not 
equate the CONFINS credit statements for the third quarter of 2012 that had been determined to be in the non -accumulative 
system.  We presented our administrative defense.  The Court dismissed the 
Company’s defense in December 2020.  The Company filed a 
voluntary appeal to the Brazilian Administrative Council of Tax 
Appeals (CARF) that is pending a decision.  8,655  
      
TAM Linhas 
Aéreas S.A  Department of 
Federal Revenue 
of Brazil  10880.938841/2 0
13-18 The decision denied the petition for reassignment and did not 
equate the CONFINS credit statements for the second quarter of 2012 that had been determined to be in the non -accumulative 
system.  We presented our administrative defense. The Court dismi ssed the 
Company’s defense in December 2020.  The Company filed a 
voluntary appeal to the Brazilian Administrative Council of Tax 
Appeals (CARF) that is pending a decision.  8,189  
260 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020119 
 
  
Company  Court Case Number  Origin  Stage of trial  Amounts  
Committed (*) 
ThUS $ 
      
TAM Linhas 
Aéreas S.A  Receita Federal de Brasil  10840.727719/201
9-71 Collection of PIS / COFINS tax for the period of 2014.  We presented our administrative defense on January 11, 2020. The 
Court dismissed the Company’s defense in December 202 0.  The 
Company filed a voluntary appeal to the Brazilian Administrative 
Council of Tax Appeals (CARF) that is pending a decision.  
 33,551  
      
Latam -Airlines 
Ecuador S.A. Tribunal Distrital de lo 
Fiscal  17509 -2014 -0088  An audit of the 2006 Income Tax Return that disallowed 
fuel expenses, fees and other items because the necessary support was not provided, according to Management.  On August 6, 2018, the District Tax Claims Court rendered a decision 
denying the request for a refund of a mistaken payment.   An appeal 
seeking vacation of this judgment by the Court was filed on September 
5th and we are awaiting a decision by the Appellate judges. As of 
December 31, 2018, the lawyers believe that the probability of 
recovering this amount has fallen by 30% to 4 0%, so the provision was 
increased to $8.7 million. We have applied IFRIC 23 as of 12/31/19 
because of the percentage loss (more than 50%), and we have recorded 
the entire provision in the income tax item.  12,505  
      
Latam Airlines 
Group S.A.  Southern District of 
Florida. United States 
District Court  19cv23965  
 A lawsuit filed by Jose Ramon Lopez Regueiro against 
American Airlines Inc. and Latam Airlines Group S.A. 
seeking an indemnity for damages caused by the 
commercial use of the Jose Marti Internat ional Airport in 
Cuba that he says were repaired and reconditioned by his family before the change in government in 1959.  Latam Airlines Group S.A. was served this claim on September 27, 
2019. LATAM Airlines Group filed a motion to dismiss on November 26, 2019.  In response, a motion to suspend discovery was filed on 
December 23, 2019 while the Court was deciding on the motion to 
dismiss. On April 6, 2020 the Court issued a Temporary Suspension 
Order given the inability to proceed with the case on a regula r basis as 
a result of the indefinite duration and restrictions of the global 
pandemic. The parties must notify the Court monthly of the possibility 
of moving forward. The provision is undetermined.  -0- 
      
TAM Linhas 
Aéreas S.A.  Receita Federal de Bra sil 
 10880.910559/201
7-91 Compensation non equate by Cofins  
 It is about the non -approved compensation of Cofins. Administrative 
defense submitted (Manifestação de Inconformidade). The Court 
dismissed the Company’s defense in December 2020.  The Company 
filed a voluntary appeal to the Brazilian Administrative Council of Tax 
Appeals (CARF) that is pending a decision.  
 10,185  
 
      
TAM Linhas 
Aéreas S.A.  Receita Federal de Brasil  
 10880.910547/201
7-67 
 Compensation non equate by Cofins  
 We presented our a dministrative defense (Manifestação de 
Inconformidade). The Court dismissed the Company’s defense in December 2020.  The Company filed a voluntary appeal to the 
Brazilian Administrative Council of Tax Appeals (CARF) that is 
pending a decision.  11,839  
 
      
TAM Linhas 
Aéreas S.A.  
 Receita Federal de Brasil  
 10880.910553/201
7-14 Compensation non equate by Cofins  
 We presented our administrative defense (Manifestação de 
Inconformidade). The Court dismissed the Company’s defense in 
December 2020.  The Compa ny filed a voluntary appeal to the 
Brazilian Administrative Council of Tax Appeals (CARF) that is 
pending a decision.  11,324  
 
      
 
261 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020120 
 
 Company  
 
 
 TAM Linhas 
Aéreas S.A.  Court  
  
 Receita Federal de Brasil  
 Case Number  
 
 
 10880.910555/201
7-11 Origin  
  
 Comp ensation non equate by Cofins  
 Stage of trial  
 
 
 
We presented our administrative defense (Manifestação de 
Inconformidade). The Court dismissed the Company’s defense in December 2020.  The Company filed a voluntary appeal to the Brazilian Administrative Cou ncil of Tax Appeals (CARF) that is 
pending a decision.  Amounts  
Committed (*) 
ThUS $ 
 
11,976  
 
      
TAM Linhas 
Aéreas S.A.  Receita Federal de Brasil  
 10880.910560/201
7-16 Compensation non equate by Cofins  We presented our administrative defense (Manifest ação de 
Inconformidade). The Court dismissed the Company’s defense in 
December 2020.  The Company filed a voluntary appeal to the 
Brazilian Administrative Council of Tax Appeals (CARF) that is pending a decision.  
 10,354  
 
      
TAM Linhas 
Aéreas S.A.  Receita Federal de Brasil  
 10880.910550/201
7-81 Compensation non equate by Cofins  
 We presented our administrative defense (Manifestação de 
Inconformidade). The Court dismissed the Company’s defense in December 2020.  The Company filed a voluntary appeal to the 
Brazilian Administrative Council of Tax Appeals (CARF) that is 
pending a decision.  12,117  
 
      
      
TAM Linhas 
Aéreas S.A.  Receita Federal de Brasil  
 10880.910549/201
7-56 Compensation non equate by Cofins  
 We presented our administrative defense  (Manifestação de 
Inconformidade).  The Court dismissed the Company’s defense in 
December 2020.  The Company filed a voluntary appeal to the Brazilian Administrative Council of Tax Appeals (CARF) that is 
pending a decision.  
 10,153  
 
      
TAM Linhas 
Aére as S.A.  Receita Federal de Brasil  
 10880.910557/201
7-01 Compensation non equate by Cofins  
 We presented our administrative defense (Manifestação de 
Inconformidade).  The Court dismissed the Company’s defense in 
December 2020.  The Company filed a voluntary appeal to the 
Brazilian Administrative Council of Tax Appeals (CARF) that is 
pending a decision.  
 9,604  
 
      
TAM Linhas 
Aéreas S.A.  Receita Federal de Brasil  
 10840.722712/202
0-05 Administrative trial that deals with the collection of 
PIS/Cofins propor tionality (fiscal year 2015).  We presented our administrative defense (Manifestação de 
Inconformidade). A decision is pending.  26,454  
 
      
TAM Linhas 
Aéreas S.A.  Receita Federal de Brasil  
 10880.978948/201
9-86 It is about the non -approved compensation/ reimbursement 
of Cofins for the 4th Quarter of 2015.  TAM filed its administrative defense on July 14, 2020.  A decision is 
pending.  15,114  
 
      
TAM Linhas 
Aéreas S.A.  Receita Federal de Brasil  
 10880.978946/201
9-97 It is about the non -approved compen sation/reimbursement 
of Cofins for the 3th Quarter of 2015  TAM filed its administrative defense on July 14, 2020.  A decision is 
pending.  9,159  
 
      
TAM Linhas 
Aéreas S.A.  Receita Federal de Brasil  
 10880.978944/201
9-06 It is about the non -approved com pensation/reimbursement 
of Cofins for the 2th Quarter of 2015  TAM filed its administrative defense on July 14, 2020.  A decision is 
pending.  9,723  
 
 
262 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020121 
 
 Company  
 
 
 
Latam Airlines 
Group S.A  
 Court  
 
 
 
23° Juzgado Civil de 
Santiago  
 Case Number  
 
 
 
C-8498 -2020  
 Origin  
 
 
 
Class Action Lawsuit filed by the National Corporation of 
Consumers and Users (CONADECUS) against LATAM 
Airlines Group S.A. for alleged breaches of the Law on 
Protection of Consumer Rights due to flight cancellations 
caused by the COVID -19 Pandemi c, requesting the nullity 
of possible abusive clauses, the imposition of fines and 
compensation for damages in defense of the collective 
interest of consumers. LATAM has hired specialist 
lawyers to undertake its defense.  
 Stage of trial  
 
 
 
On 06/25/2020 we  were notified of the lawsuit. On 04/07/2020 we filed 
a motion for reversal against the ruling that declared the action filed by 
CONADECUS admissible, the decision is pending to date. On 
07/11/2020 we requested the Court to comply with the suspension of 
this case, ruled by the 2nd Civil Court of Santiago, in recognition of the 
foreign reorganization procedure pursuant to Law No. 20,720, for the 
entire period that said proceeding lasts, a request that was accepted by 
the Court. CONADECUS filed a remedy of re consideration and an 
appeal against this resolution should the remedy of reconsideration be 
dismissed.  The Court dismissed the reconsideration on August 3, 2020, 
but admitted the appeal.  The appeal is currently pending before the 
Santiago Court of Appeal s. The amount at the moment is 
undetermined.  
 
New York Case. Parallel to the lawsuit in Chile, on August 31, 2020, 
CONADECUS filed on appeal with U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the 
Southern District of New York (the “Bankruptcy Court”) because of 
the automatic suspension imposed by Section 362 of the U.S. 
Bankruptcy Code that, among other things, prohibits the parties from 
filing or continuing with claims that involve a preliminary petition 
against the Borrowers.  CONADECUS petitioned (i) for a stay of the 
autom atic suspension to the extent necessary to continue with the class 
action against LATAM in Chile and (ii) for a joint hearing by the 
Bankruptcy Court and the Second Civil Court of Santiago in Chile (the 
“Chile Insolvency Court”) to hear the matters relatin g to the claims of 
CONADECUS in Chile. On December 18, 2020, the Bankruptcy Court 
sustained part of CONADECUS’s petition, but only to allow it to 
continue its appeal against the decision by the 23rd Civil Court of 
Santiago and solely so that the Court of A ppeals can decide whether or 
not a stay is admissible under Chilean insolvency law.  On December 
31, 2020, CONADECUS petitioned to continue with its appeal against 
the decision by the 25th Civil Court that approved the reconciliation 
between AGRECU and LAT AM. Amounts  
Committed (*) 
ThUS $ 
 
-0- 
      
Latam Airlines 
Group S.A  
 23° Juzgado Civil de 
Santiago  
 C-8903 -2020  
 Class Action Lawsuit filed by AGRECU against LATAM 
Airlines Group S.A. for alleged breaches of the Law on 
Protection of Consumer Rights due to flight cancellations 
caused by the COVID -19 Pandemic, requesting the nullity 
of possible abusive clauses, the imposition of fines and 
compensation for damages in defense of the collective 
interest of consumers. LATAM has hired specialist 
lawyers to unde rtake its defense.  
 On July 7, 2020 we were notified of the lawsuit. We filed our answer to 
the claim on August 21, 2020. A settlement was reached with 
AGRECU at that hearing that was approved by the Court on October 5, 
2020. On October 7, 2020, the 25th C ivil Court confirmed that the 
decision approving the settlement was final and binding. 
CONADECUS filed a brief on October 4, 2020 to become a party and 
oppose the agreement, which was dismissed on October 5, 2020.  It 
petitioned for an official correction on October 8, 2020 and the 
annulment of all proceedings on October 22, 2020, which were 
dismissed, costs payable by CONADECUS, on November 16, 2020 
and November 20, 2020, respectively.  CONADECUS still has appeals 
pending against these decisions. The amoun t at the moment is 
undetermined.  
 -0- 
 
263 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020122 
 
 - In order to deal with any financial obligations arising from legal proceedings in effect at 
December 31, 2020, whether civil, tax, or labor, LATAM Airlines Group S.A. and 
Subsidiaries, has made provisions, which are  included in Other non -current provisions that are 
disclosed in Note 21.  
 
- The Company has not disclosed the individual probability of success for each contingency in 
order to not negatively affect its outcome.  
 
- Considering the returns of aircrafts and engi nes made through the reorganization process, in 
accordance with the regulations established in Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the Code of the United 
States of America , which allows the rejection of some contracts, the counterparties could file 
claims that, in t he case of being admitted by the Court, could result in contingent obligations 
for the Company, which as of this date are not quantifiable.  
 
(*) The Company has reported the amounts involved only for the lawsuits for which a reliable estimation can be made  of the financial impacts and of the possibility of any recovery, pursuant 
to Paragraph 86 of IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.  
 
II. Governmental Investigations.  
 
1) On April 6, 2019, LATAM Airlines Group S.A. received notificat ion of the resolution issued by 
the National Economic Prosecutor's Office (FNE), which begins an investigation into the LATAM Pass frequent passenger program. The last update in the ca se Role No. 2530 -19 leading this 
investigation corresponds to the respon se to a trade in May 2019.  
 
2) On July 9, 2019, LATAM Airlines Group S.A. received the resolution issued by the National Economic Prosecutor's Office (FNE), which begins an investigation into the Alliance Agreement 
between LATAM Airlines Group S.A. and Ame rican Airlines INC. The last update in the ca se Role 
No. 2565- 19 leading this investigation corresponds to a statement on September 11, 2019  
 
3) On July 26, 2019, the National Consumer Service of Chile (SERNAC) issued the Ordinary Resolution No. 12,711 whi ch proposed to initiate a collective voluntary mediation procedure on 
effectively informing passengers of their rights in cases of cancellation of flights or no show to boarding, as well as the obligation to return the respective boarding fees as provided by art. 133 C 
of the Aeronautical Code. The Company has voluntarily decided to participate in this proceeding, in which an agreement was reached on March 18, 2020, which implies the return of shipping fees from September 1, 2021, with an initial amount of ThUS$ 5,165, plus ThUS$ 565, as well as 
information to each passenger who has not flown since March 18, 2020, that their boarding fees are available.  
 4) On October 15, 2019, LATAM Airlines Group S.A. received the resolution issued by the 
National Economic  Prosecuting Authority (FNE) advising of the start of an investigation into the 
agreement between LATAM Airlines Group S.A. and Delta Airlines, Inc. The last move in the Case 
N° 2585 -19 leading this investigation corresponds to the response to a trade in F ebruary 2021.  
 5) On February 23, 2021 In the framework of the investigation Rol N ° 2484 -18, LATAM Airlines 
Group SA received Ordinary Official Letter N ° 243 of 2021 issued by the National Economic Prosecutor's Office (FNE), which requests information r egarding tariffs of cargo and passengers. In 
2018 and 2019, requests for information have been received for complaints associated with the 123 
 
 transport of air cargo, the last activity of which occurred in December 2019. In this new notification, the request f or information to the passenger business is extended due to new 
complaints received by the FNE.  
  
NOTE 32 - COMMITMENTS  
 (a)  Commitments for loans obtained  
 
The Company and its subsidiaries do not have credit agreements that  indicate limits to some 
financial indicators of the Company or the subsidiaries, with the exception of those detailed below:  
 
Regarding the revolving committed credit line (“Revolving Credit Facility”) established with a 
consortium of twelve banks led by Citibank, with a guarantee of aircraft, engines, spare parts and 
supplies for a total committed amount of US $ 600 million, it includes restrictions of minimum 
liquidity, measured at the Consolidated Company level (with a minimum level of US $ 750 million)  
and individually measured for LATAM Airlines Group S.A. companies and TAM Linhas Aéreas S.A. (with a minimum level of US $ 400 million). Compliance with these restrictions is a 
prerequisite for using the line; if the line is used, said restrictions must b e reported quarterly, and 
non-compliance with these restrictions will accelerate credit. As of December 31, 2020, this line of 
credit is fully used.  
 
As of December 31, 2020, the Company is in compliance with all the financial indicators detailed 
above.  
 On the other hand, the financing agreements of the Company generally establish clauses regarding 
changes in the ownership structure and in the controller and disposition of assets (which mainly 
refers to significant transfers of assets).  
 
Under Section 362 of the Bankruptcy Code, the filing of voluntary bankruptcy petitions by the 
Debtors automatically stayed most actions against the Debtors, including most actions to collect 
indebtedness incurred prior to the Petition Date or to exercise control over the De btors’ property.  
 Accordingly, counterparties are stayed from taking any actions as a result of such purported 
defaults. Specifically, the financing agreements of the Company generally establish that the filing of 
bankruptcy or similar proceedings constit ute an event of default, which are unenforceable under the 
Bankruptcy Code. At the date of the issuance of these financial statements, the Company has not 
received notices of termination of financing arrangements, based on such an event of default.  
 On Sep tember 29, 2020  the company signed the so -called "DIP Financing", which contemplates 
minimum liquidity restrictions of at least US $ 400 million at a consolidated level.  
 LATAM's obligations to the lenders of the DIP Financing have a super administrative p reference 
recognized under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code with respect to the other liabilities of the company and entities of its corporate group that have filed for Chapter 11 proceedings ("Related 
Subsidiaries") prior to the commencement of the Chapter 11 proceeding.  
 In addition, in order to secure the debt under the DIP Financing, LATAM and the Related Subsidiaries granted certain guarantees, including, but not limited to, (i) in -rem guarantees to be 
264 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020124 
 
 granted over certain specified assets, such  as spare engines, spare inventory, shares in certain 
subsidiaries (including, but not limited to, (a) a pledge over the shares owned by LATAM in LAN 
Cargo S.A., Inversiones Lan S.A., Lan Pax Group S.A., LATAM Travel II S.A., Technical Training 
Latam S.A. and Holdco I S.A., (b) pledge over the shares owned by LAN Cargo S.A. in Transporte 
Aéreo S.A., Inversiones Lan S.A., Fast Air Almacenes de Carga S.A. and Lan Cargo Inversiones 
S.A. and (c) pledge over the shares owned by Inversiones LAN S.A. in LAN Cargo S.A., 
Transporte Aéreo S.A., Lan Pax Group S.A., Fast Air Almacenes de Carga S.A., LATAM Travel Chile II S.A., Technical Training LATAM S.A. and Lan Cargo Inversiones S.A.), among others, 
under the laws of the jurisdictions in which they are located, (ii) personal guarantees of the Related 
Subsidiaries and (iii) a in- rem guarentee of general nature over the assets of LATAM and the 
Related Subsidiaries other than certain "Excluded Assets" comprising, among other things, the aircraft and the "Carve -Out" inclu ding, among other things, certain funds assigned for expenses of 
the Chapter 11 proceedings.  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 125 
 
 (b) Other commitments  
 
At December 31 , 2020 the Company has existing letters of credit, certificates of deposits and 
warranty i nsurance policies as follows:  
Cr edi tor  Guar antee Debtor
Super i ntendenci a Naci onal  de Aduanas
y de Admi ni str aci ón Tr i butar i a L at am  A i r l i nes Per ú S.A . T w ent y  si x  l et t er s of  cr edi t
Aena Aer opuer tos S.A. Latam Ai r l i nes Gr oup S.A. Fo u r le tte rs  o f c re d it
A m er i can A l t er nat i v e I nsur ance
Cor por ati on Latam Ai r l i nes Gr oup S.A. Ei ght l etter s of  cr edi t
Comi si ón Eur opea Latam Ai r l i nes Gr oup S.A. One l et t er  of  cr edi t
Empr esa Públ i ca de Hi dr ocar bur os
del  Ecuador  EP Petr oecuador Latam Ai r l i nes Gr oup S.A. One l et t er  of  cr edi t
M etr opol i tan Dade County Latam Ai r l i nes Gr oup S.A. Sev en l et t er s of  cr edi t
BBVA Latam Ai r l i nes Gr oup S.A. One l et t er  of  cr edi t
J FK In te rn a tio n a l Air Te rmin a l LLC. Latam Ai r l i nes Gr oup S.A. One l et t er  of  cr edi t
Soci edad Concesi onar i a Pudahuel  S.A. Latam Ai r l i nes Gr oup S.A. Si x t een l et t er s of  cr edi t
Ser v i ci o N aci onal  de A duanas Latam Ai r l i nes Gr oup S.A. Fi v e l et t er s of  cr edi t
T esor er í a N aci onal  de l a Repúbl i ca Latam Ai r l i nes Gr oup S.A. Fi v e l et t er s of  cr edi t
Pr ocon  T am  L i nhas A ér eas S.A . El even i nsur ance pol i cy guar antee
U ni ão Feder al T am  L i nhas A ér eas S.A . Si x i nsur ance pol i cy guar antee
Pr ocur ador i a da Fazenda N aci onal T am  L i nhas A ér eas S.A . One l et t er  of  cr edi t
Tr i bunal  de Justi ção de São Paul o. T am  L i nhas A ér eas S.A . Two i nsur ance pol i cy guar antee
1 7a V ar a Cí v el  da Com ar ca da Capi t al
         de João Pessoa/PB. T am  L i nhas A ér eas S.A . An i nsur ance pol i cy guar antee
1 4ª V ar a Feder al  da Seção  Judi ci ár i a
T am  L i nhas A ér eas S.A . An i nsur ance pol i cy guar antee
V ar a das E x ecuções Fi scai s E st aduai s T am  L i nhas A ér eas S.A . Two i nsur ance pol i cy guar antee
V ar a Ci v el  Cam pi nas SP T am  L i nhas A ér eas S.A . An i nsur ance pol i cy guar antee
J FK In te rn a tio n a l Air Te rmin a l LLC. T am  L i nhas A ér eas S.A . A n l et t er  of  cr edi t
7ª Tur ma do Tr i bunal  Regi onal  
T am  L i nhas A ér eas S.A . An i nsur ance pol i cy guar antee
V ar a de E x ecuções Fi scai s E st aduai s
T am  L i nhas A ér eas S.A . Thr ee i nsur ance pol i cy guar antee
Bond Saf eguar d I nsur ance Company T am  L i nhas A ér eas S.A . Four  i nsur ance pol i cy guar antee
U ni ão Feder al  Fazenda N aci onal T am  L i nhas A ér eas S.A . Four  i nsur ance pol i cy guar antee
U ni a o Feder al A BSA  L i nhas A er eas 
         Bra s ile ira  S . A. Four  i nsur ance pol i cy guar antee
V ar a Feder al  da Subseção A BSA  L i nhas A er eas 
          de Campi nas SP          Bra s ile ira  S . A. An i nsur ance pol i cy guar antee
Tr i bunal  de Justi ção A BSA  L i nhas A er eas 
         Bra s ile ira  S . A. Two i nsur ance pol i cy guar antee
7ª Tur ma do Tr i bunal  Regi onal  A BSA  L i nhas A er eas 
         Bra s ile ira  S . A. An i nsur ance pol i cy guar antee    de D i st r i t o Feder al 1 ,373         M ay-29-25
1 ,487         Jun-1 4-24
    Feder al  da 1 ª Regi ão 1 ,638         M ay-07-23    da Com ar ca de São Paul o    Feder al  da 1 ª Regi ão 41 ,993      Apr -20-23
    de São Paul o. 5,084        Sep-23-24Feb-20-2331 ,247      Feb-22-21Type ThUS $ da te
2,871         Dec-04-21
4,240        Apr -05-21
2,463        Apr -09-21
2,300        Jan-27-21
1 ,953         Apr -01 -21
2,574        Va lu e Rel ease
9,682        M ar -29-211 88,524   Jan-20-21
404,279            6,060        Aug-1 0-21
2,722        Jul -05-231 ,047         Sep-23-24
2,300        
1 ,300         Jan-1 0-21
1 ,560         2,304        Nov-1 6-252,700        Jul -1 4-214,476        Jan-1 6-22
1 0,775      Jul -05-231 4,972      Apr -01 -21
53,71 8      Nov-09-211 ,500         Jun-1 8-21
Jun-25-23Apr -01 -21
1, 4 16          Apr -30-21
 
Letters of credit related to assets for right of use are included in Note 17 Properties, plants and 
equipment letter (d) Additional information Properties, plants and equipment, in numeral (i) 
Properties, plants and equipment delivered in guarantee.  
 
265 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020126 
 NOTE 33 - TRANSACTIONS WITH RE LATED PARTIES  
 
(a) Details of transactions with related parties as follows:  
Patagoni a Seafarms I NC
I ndirect shareholder
I nterl i neal  recei ved servi ce
I nterlineal provided  service
I nterlineal provided  service
Compensation for cancellation of aircraft purchaseCompensation for cancellation of aircraft purchase(1 00,01 3)  -  
I nterest accrued (* ) C LPL oans recei ved (* ) C LPTransaction amount 
with related parties
As of December 31 ,
58
2
22,21 5 -  
Compensation for cancellation of aircraft purchase
(* ) I nterest accrued -  
 -  (7,1 25)US $
US $ (4,1 60)
US $Qatar Ai rw ay s
Services provided of handling US $ 1 ,246
US $US $ (25,003)US $
Common shareholderNature o f 
Currency
Services provided of cargo transport
Servi ces recei vedrel ated parti es
transactions
C LPTi ckets sal es
Services provided of cargo transport
Servi ces provi dedS a le s  c o m m is s io ns
Services provided of cargo transportTi ckets sal es C LPCountry
 o f o riginNature o f 
relationship with
rel ated parti es
C hileRel ated party
F o re ign87.752.000-5 Granj a Mari na Tornagal eones S. A. Common shareholderTax No.
78.591 .370-1 Bethia S.A and subsidiaries Related  director96.81 0.370-9
C hile
C hile
QatarF o re ign Related  director U.S .A
F o re ign QA I nvestments 2 Ltd Jersey Channel I slands Common shareholder96.989.370-3 R io  Dulc e  S .A. Related  director C hile
Shareholder
Common shareholderI nversiones Costa Verde  Ltda. y CP A. Related  director
(5,700)
 -  
C LP13
BRL
BRL -  C LP  -  201 9
ThUS $
 -  
5562020
ThUS $
13
 -  
3,739(2,050)39,528
996 -  
1, 16 0C o urie r C LP  -  (3)Servi ces recei ved from Nati onal  and I nternati onal  
Servi ces recei ved adverti si ng C LP  -  (726)
F o re ign TAM Avi ação Ex ecuti va e Tax i  Aéreo S. A. Common shareholder Brazil Servi ces provi ded61
 -  76.335.600-0 Parque de Chi l e S. A. Related  director C hile Ti ckets sal es C LP  -  
5
 -  US $ (7,1 25)  -  US $ 3,1 41
 -  
(1 25,01 6)  -  
(1 25,01 6)US $ 9,240
309
US $US $
(4,736)
Co mpens atio n fo r early return o f aircraft
 -  (1 ,425)Servi ces provi ded by  ai rcraft l ease  
F o re ign De lta  Air Line s , Inc . U.S .A I nterl i neal  recei ved servi ce
F o re ign Lo zuy S .A. Uruguay (* ) L oans recei vedF o re ign QA I nvestments Ltd Jersey Channel I slands (* ) L oans recei ved 
(* ) L oans recei ved
(* ) I nterest accrued(* ) I nterest accruedUS $
 -  US $Services provided / received others1, 10 628 16
40  -  
US $
US $
US $4,357
62,000
3,31 0 -  
 -  
 -  ( 2 18 )
  
(*) Corresponding to DIP tranche C.  
The balances of Accounts receivable and accounts payable to related parties are disclosed in Note 9.  
Transactions betwe en related parties have been carried out under market conditions between interested and duly informed parties.  
266 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020127 
 (b) Compensation of key management  
The Company has defined for these purposes that key management personnel are the executives 
who define the Compan y’s policies and macro guidelines and who directly affect the results of the 
business, considering the levels of Vice -Presidents, Chief Executives and Senior Directors.  
Share-based payments
Termination benefits (*)Short-term benefits 13,624 31,124
 - 3,2968,395
257
TotalNon-monetary benefits
Long-term benefitsRemuneration
M anagement fees
28,5348,577
1,428For the year ended
December 31,
2020
ThUS$
60,3521,719
 - 
4,5392019
ThUS$
13,701
411
1,815
 
 
(*) Includes termination benefits ThUS $ 489, related to the reorganization within the framework of Chapter  11 are classified in Note 27, under expenses from restructuring activities.  
  
NOTE 34 - SHARE -BASED PAYMENTS  
 
LP3 compensation plans (2020 -2023)  
 
The Company implemented a program for a group of executives, which las ts until March 2023, 
with a period of enforceability between October 2020 and March 2023, where the collection percentage is annual and cumulative. The methodology is an allocation, of quantity of units, where 
a goal of the value of the action is set. 
 The bonus is activated, if the target of the share price defined in each year is met. In case the bonus 
accumulates, up to the last year, the total bonus is doubled (in case the share price is activated).  
 
This Compensation Plan has not yet been provisioned d ue to the fact that the action price required 
for collection is below the initial target.  
 128 
 NOTE 35 - STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS   
 (a) The Company has carried out non -monetary transactions mainly related to financial le ase and 
lease liabilities, which are described in Note 19 Other financial liabilities.  
 
(b) Other inflows (outflows) of cash:  
Court depositsCurrency hedge
(11,369)
(20,627)
13,593-
(22,976)
241,286Fuel derivatives premiums (3,949)Fuel hedge (46,579)
14,962
Guarantees (44,279)Tax paid on bank transaction (1,261)
(107,788)(55,728)(2,976)
Total Other inflows (outflows) Financing flowAircraft Financing advances-
-(2,192) (2,249)
(107,788)Total Other inflows (outflows) Investment flowTax paid on bank transaction
Settlement of derivative contractsDecember 31,For theyear ended
Total Other inflows (outflows) Operation flow2020
 ThUS$
Bank commissions, taxes paid and other (5,828)Delta Air Lines Inc. compensation (1) 62,000
Hedging margin guarantees
38,5272019
 ThUS$
350,000
(5,474)(9,966)
(17,102)(21,200)
(2,192)
(58,704)(2,249)
 
 (c)       Dividends:  
 
 
Latam Airlines Group S.A.
Multiplus S.A. (*)
Latam Airlines Perú S .A. (*)
Total dividends paidDecember 31,For the period ended
-
-(54,580)
(571)(571)-
(536)
(55,116)2020
 ThUS$2019
 ThUS$
 
 
(*) Dividends paid to minority shareholders  
  
 
 
 
 
267 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020129 
 (d)  Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities:  
 
 financial institutions 1 0,1 1 9,775 1 ,902,592 (2,343,040) (550,877) 1 ,237,234 1 0,365,684  - Le a s e  lia bility 2,858,049 (398,992) (1 77,948) 891 ,048 3,1 72,1 57
Total Obligations with -  - Other loans 252,858 27,864 (1 78,777) (9,648) 8,964  - 1 01 ,261Fi nanci al  l eases 1 ,624,854  - (591 ,861 ) ( 7 2 , 3 11) 68,440 701 ,721 1 ,730,843Obligation with the public 1 ,553,079 1 ,009,836 (487,086) (1 44,932) 1 34,037  - 2,064,934Other guaranteed obligations 673,452  - (92,549) (28,41 7) 27,946  - 580,432Guaranteed obligations 2,534,021 607,797 (282,721 ) (93,335) 93,286 (701 ,721 ) 2,1 57,327Bank loans 222,741 1 64,095 (1 65,549) (1 1 ,352) 7,320  - 21 7,255Loans to exporters 400,721 93,000 (1 45,505) (1 2,934) 6,1 93  - 341 ,475ThUS $ ThUS $ ThUS $ ThUS $ ThUS $ ThUS $ ThUS $ financial institutions 201 8 Capital Capital I nterest and others Recl assi fi cati ons 201 9As of C a s h flo ws Non cash-Flow Movements As of
Obligations with December 31 , Obtainment Pay ment I nterest accrued December 31 ,1 ,61 4,501
1 01 ,26134,837 1 37,720
3,1 72,1 57 3,1 21 ,006  -  -  - 1 ,730,843  - (236,744) (52,1 55)
(1 22,063)December 31 ,
2,064,934 - (4,1 40)
1 ,31 8,85621 7,255 265,627 (4,870)8,366 1 51 ,701
525,273
2,1 57,327 1 92,972 (48,576) ( 2 1, 16 3 ) (1 37,720)
 - (774) (55,61 3) 1 74,860
Total Obligations with341 ,475 1 65,000 (359,000)ThUS $ ThUS $ ThUS $ ThUS $ ThUS $ ThUS $ ThUS $Obtainment I nterest accrued
2020Pay mentAs of C a s h flo ws As of
201 9
Le a s e  lia bility (46,055) 1 1 6,967 - (1 01 ,026) ( 1, 15 1) 9 16  - Other loansFi nanci al  l easesObligation with the publicOther guaranteed obligationsGuaranteed obligations
 - 67,268 (27,744) financial institutionsNon cash-Flow Movements
Capital Capital I nterestDecember 31 , Obligations with
and others (* ) Recl assi fi cati ons
Bank loans 
 - Loans to exporters
(2,397) 49,658  - 
1 0,853,860(823,984)
 financial institutions 1 0,365,684 1 ,985,480 (91 5,774) (21 0,41 8) ( 3 7 1, 112 ) - 1, 9 3 9 , 116
2,1 83,407580,432 1 ,361 ,881 (42,721 )
 
(*) Accrued interest and others, includes ThUS$ (891,407), associated with the rejection of fleet 
contracts. This amount inclu des ThUS$ (886,895) of Other secured obligations and                        
ThUS$ (4,512) of financial leases.  
 (e)  Advances of aircraft  
 Below are the cash flows associated with aircraft purchases, which are included in the statement of 
consolidated cash  flow, in the item Purchases of properties, plants and equipment:  
 
Increases (payments)
Recoveries
Total cash flowsFor the year ended
December 31,
2020 2019
T h US$ T h US$
(23,646) 263,414(31,803) (86,288)
8,157 349,702
 
 130 
 (f)  Additions of property, plant and equipment and Intangibles  
 
Additions associated with maintenance
Other additions
Other additions324,264 1 ,276,621
1 73,740 453,827
1 50,524 822,794
75,433 1 40,1 73 P urchases of intangible assetsNet cash fl ow s from
P urchases of property, plant and equipmentFor the y ear ended
At December 31 ,
2020 201 9
ThUS $ ThUS $
75,433 1 40,1 73  
 
(g) The net effect of the application of hyperinflation in the consolidated cash flow statement 
for the periods ended December 31 corresponds to:  
 
Net cash flows from (used in) operating activities
Net cash flows from (used in) investment activities
Net cash flows from (used in) financing activities
Effects of variation in the exchange rate on cash and cash equivalents
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents(13,872)
-
(4,475)
-For the year ended
December 31,
2020 2019
-ThUS$
64,516
(56,866)
(126,447)118,797ThUS$
18,347
 
 
 
 
NOTE 36 - THE ENVIRONMENT  
 
LATAM Airlines Group S.A is comm itted to sustainable development seeking to generate social, 
economic and environmental value for the countries where it operates and for all its stakeholders. The company manages environmental issues at the corporate level, centralized in the Corporate 
Affairs and Sustainability Management. The company is committed to monitoring and mitigating its 
impact on the environment in all of its ground and air operations, being a key actor in the solution 
and search for alternatives to face the challenge of climate  change.  
 Some of the functions of the Corporate Affairs and Sustainability Management in environmental 
issues, together with the various areas of the company, is to ensure that environmental legal 
compliance is maintained in all the countries where it is present and in 100% of its operations, to 
implement and to maintain a corporate environmental management system, to use non -renewable 
resources such as jet fuel efficiently, to dispose of its waste responsibly, and to develop programs 
and actions that allo w it to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions, seeking to generate environmental, 
social and economic benefits for the company and its environment.  
 
268 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020131 
 Within the current sustainability strategy, the environment dimension is called Climate Change, and 
its objec tive is for the company to assume a leadership role in the region in this area, for which it 
works on the following aspects:  
 i. Implementation of management systems and environmental certifications  
ii. Promotion of a circular economy  
iii. Measurement and management of the corporate carbon footprint  
iv. Emissions Offset Program 
v. Development of sustainable alternative fuels and energy  
vi. Creation of Shared Value  
 During 2020, the company worked on updating its sustainability strategy, co -building it with its 
stakeholders and experts in different topics, which allows it to respond to the new challenges it is facing by being part of the solution, with the objective of to be an asset in the countries where it 
operates and to generate value for them. This upda te was made in the midst of the health crisis, with 
the company convinced that its recovery comes hand in hand with being a leader in the region in 
sustainability. This strategy will be made public during 2021, once it has been validated by all the 
actors who participated. At the same time, during 2020, the company worked on the following 
initiatives:  
 - Maintenance of the certification of the international standard ISO 14001 in the cargo operation in 
Miami.  
- Maintenance of the stage 2 certifications of th e IEnvA environmental management system (IATA 
Environmental Assessment) whose scope is international flights operated from Chile, the most advanced level of this certification; being the first in the continent and one of six airlines in the 
world that have  this certification  
- Maintenance of stage 1 certification of the IEnvA environmental management system (IATA 
Environmental Assessment) whose scope is the domestic and international operations of Colombia  
- Response to the DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability In dex) questionnaire  
- Neutralization of domestic air operations in Colombian operations  
- Incorporation of 100% electrical energy from renewable sources in the facilities of the 
maintenance base and the corporate building of operations in Chile  
- Implementa tion of the Recycle Your Trip program, which seeks to manage the waste generated on 
board domestic flights in Chile.  
- Verification of company emissions under the EU -ETS and CORSIA schemes.  
- Strengthening of the Solidarity Plane program.  
 
It is highlighte d that LATAM Airlines Group, during 2020, had an excellent performance in the 
sustainability evaluation of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, the best in its history. However, the company was delisted from the different indices (World, MILA and Chile), fo r being in Chapter 11.  
 
 
NOTE 37 - EVENTS SUBSEQUENT TO THE DATE OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
 (1) On January 28, 2021, the United States Southern District Court of New York issued  an order 
extending the exclusive period of the debtors’, to present a reorganization plan within Chapter 11 until June 30, 2021 and extending until August 23, 2021, the period to obtain acceptances of said 
plan.  
 132 
 (2) On January 29, 2021, in accordance wit h the applicable Chapter 11 procedures, the Debtors 
were authorized to reject 2 A320 family aircraft registered under IFRS 16 as right -of-use assets.  
 (3) On February 3, 2021, authorities of the state of Sao Paulo at the petition of the federal district 
authorities requested at the offices of the subsidiary Latam Airlines Brasil, financial and accounting 
information relative to two suppliers referring to the period 2012 -2014, which was provided by that 
company, collaborating with the procedure . 
 (4) On Febr uary 24, 2021 LATAM and Delta Air Lines received from the Administrative Council 
for Economic Defense (CADE) in Brazil the unrestricted approval of their commercial agreement 
(“Trans -American Joint Venture Agreement” or “JVA”), then of initial approval in September 
2020.  
 
After December 31, 2020 and until the date of issuance of these financial statements, there is no 
knowledge of other events of a financial or other nature, which significantly affect the balances or 
interpretation thereof.  
 The consolidate d financial statements of LATAM Airlines Group S.A. and Subsidiaries as of 
December 31, 2020, have been approved in the Ordinary Board Session of March 9, 2021. 
  
 
269 Financial statements 
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020LATAM AIRLINES GROUP S.A
Name: LATAM Airlines Group S.A., R.U.T. 89.862.200-2
Professional Airline Services Inc.
Incorporation: It was established as a limited liability com -
pany via a public deed dated December 30, 1983 before 
Notary Eduardo Avello Arellano; an excerpt of this deed is 
recorded in the Santiago Commerce Registry on page 20,341 
number 11,248 of the year 1983, and published in the Offi -
cial Gazette on December 31, 1983.
Pursuant to the public deed dated August 20, 1985, grant -
ed by Notary Miguel Garay Figueroa’s Office, the company 
became a joint-stock corporation known as Línea Aérea 
Nacional Chile S.A. (nowadays, LATAM Airlines Group 
S.A.) which, by express rendering of Law N° 18,400, has 
the quality of legal follower of the state-owned compa -
ny created in the year 1929 under the name Línea Aérea 
Nacional de Chile, pursuant to the aeronautical and radio 
communications concessions, traffic rights, and other ad -
ministrative concessions.LAN Chile S.A. ’s Extraoridnary Shareholders’ Meeting agreed 
on July 23, 2004 to change the company’s name to “LAN 
Airlines S.A. ” An excerpt of the deed to which the Minutes of 
said Meeting referred was recorded in the Real Estate Reg -
istry of the Registry of Commerce on page 25,128 number 
18,764 of the year 2004 and published in the Official Ga -
zette on August 21, 2004. The effective date for the name 
change was September 8, 2004.
LAN Airlines S.A. ’s Extraordinary Shareholders’ meeting held 
on December 21, 2011 agreed to change the company’s 
name to “LATAM Airlines Group S.A. ” An excerpt of the deed 
to which the Minutes of said Meeting referred was recorded 
in the Real Estate Registry of the Registry of Commerce on 
page 4,238 number 2,921 of the year 2012 and published in 
the Official Gazette on January 14, 2012. The effective date 
for the name change was June 22, 2012.
LATAM Airlines Group S.A. is ruled by the regulation applicable 
to open stock companies, and registered to this effect under 
Nº 0306, dated January 22, 1987, in the Securities Register of 
the Superintendency of Securities and Insurance (SVS).
Note: A summary of the subsidiaries’ Financial Statements 
is presented herein. The full information is available to the 
public in our offices and at the CMF.TAM S.A. AND AFFILIATES
Incorporation: Joint Stock Corporation established in Brazil in 
May, 1997 .
Purpose: To participate as shareholder in other companies, 
particularly those operating scheduled air transport servic -
es on a national and international level, as well as activi -
ties connected, related, and complementary to scheduled air 
transport.
Paid-in Capital: THUS$907,532
Stake in 2020:  100.00%
YOY variation:  0.00%
% of Holding assets:  0.61318%
Chairperson:
Jerome Paul Jacques Cadier
Management team:
Jerome Paul Jacques Cadier – CEO 
Felipe Ignacio Pumarino Mendoza– CFO
Euzébio Angelotti Neto – Director without specific designation
Jefferson Cestari – Director without specific designation
270
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020Affiliates and 
subsidiariesTAM S.A. AFFILIATE COMPANIES
 
TAM Linhas Aéreas S.A.
Individualization: Joint Stock Corporation established in Bra -
zil in February, 1998. 
Purpose: (a) The operation of regular air transport services 
for passengers, cargo or suitcases, in accordance with current 
legislation; (b) Operation of complementary activities of air 
transport services for the transport of passengers, cargo, and 
suitcases; (c) Rendering of maintenance and repair of own or 
third-party aircraft, engines, and spare parts; (d) The render -
ing of aircraft hangar services; (e) rendering of yard and runway 
services, rendering of the person in charge of aircraft on-board 
cleaning; (f) Rendering of engineering services, technical assis -
tance and other activities related to the aeronautical industry; 
(g) conducting instruction and training, related to aeronautical 
activities; (h) analysis and development of programs and sys -
tems; (i) purchase and sale of aeronautical parts, accessories 
and equipment; (j) development and implementation of other 
connected activities, related or complementary to air trans -
port, in addition to those expressly listed above; (k) import and 
export of finished lubricating oil; and (l) provision of banking 
correspondent services; (e) storage and deposit of all types of 
products, solids, liquids and gases on behalf of third parties.
Paid-in Capital: THUS$907,532
Stake in 2020: 100.00%
YOY variation: 0.00%
% of Holding assets: 0.61318%
Chairperson:
Jerome Paul Jacques CadierManagement team: 
Jerome Paul Jacques Cadier – CEO
Felipe Ignacio Pumarino Mendoza – Financial Director
Euzébio Angelotti Neto – Director without specific designation
Jefferson Cestari – Board member without specific designation
ABSA: Aerolinhas Brasileiras S.A.
Individualization:  Joint Stock Corporation established in 
Brazil in August 1995.
Purpose: (a) The operation of regular domestic and interna -
tional air transport services for passengers, cargo and post -
al services, in accordance with current legislation; (b) opera -
tion of ancillary air transport activities, such as aircraft care, 
cleaning, and towing, cargo monitoring, operational flight 
clearance, check-in and check-out, and other services pro -
vided for in its own legislation; (c) commercial and opera -
tional leasing, as well as aircraft transportation; (d) opera -
tion of maintenance and marketing services for aircraft parts 
and equipment; and (e) development and implementation of 
other connected activities, related or complementary to air 
transport, in addition to those expressly listed above.
Paid-in Capital: THUS$9,755
Stake in 2020: 100.00%
YOY variation: 0.00%
% of Holding assets: 0.0%
Chairperson:
Jerome Paul Jacques CadierManagement team:
Jerome Paul Jacques Cadier – CEO 
Diogo Abadio – Director without specific designation
Felipe Ignacio Pumarino Mendoza – Financial Director
Jefferson Cestari – Director without specific designation
Transportes Aereos del Mercosur S.A.
Individualization: Joint Stock Corporation established in 
Paraguay.
Purpose : It has a broad corporate purpose that includes aero -
nautical, commercial, tourist, service, financial, representation, 
and investment activities, with a focus on scheduled and char -
ter, domestic and international, aeronautical transportation 
activities for people, objects, and/or correspondence, among 
others, as well as commercial and maintenance and technical 
assistance services for all types of aircraft, equipment, acces -
sories, and material for airworthiness, among others.
Paid-in Capital: THUS$7,867
Stake in 2020: 94.98%
YOY variation: 0.00%
% of Holding assets: 0.08621%
Chairperson:
Enrique Alcaide Hidalgo
Board members:
Chief Executive: Enrique Alcaide Hidalgo
Permanent Member: Esteban Burt
Permanent Member: Diego Martínez 
Alternate member: Augusto Sanabria Benítez
271 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020Managers:
Enrique Alcaide Hidalgo
Esteban Burt Artaza
Diego Martinez
Enzo Pangrazio Martinez Luis Galeano
Fidelidade Viagens e Turismo S.A.
Individualization:  Joint Stock Corporation established in Bra -
zil in December 2013.
Purpose : (i) dedication to the activities of private and 
non-private travel and tourism agencies, provided for in cur -
rent tourist legislation; and (ii) administration and operation 
of tourist activities for events and leisure.
Paid-in Capital: THUS$29,379
Participación 2019: 100.00%
YOY variation: 0.00%
% of Holding assets: 0.10315%
Management team:
Jerome Paul Jacques Cadier – CEO
Felipe Ignacio Pumarino Mendoza – Financial Director
Jefferson Cestari – Director without specific designation
Euzébio Angelotti Neto – Director without specific designationCorsair Participações S.A.
Individualization:  Joint Stock Corporation established in Bra -
zil in January 2011.
Purpose: (i) Participation in other civil or commercial compa -
nies, as a shareholder or creditor; and (ii) The administration 
of own assets.
Paid-in Capital: THUS$37
Stake in 2020: 100.00%
YOY variation: 0.00%
% of Holding assets: 0.00240%
Chairperson:
Carlos Eduardo Prado 
Management team:
Carlos Eduardo Prado – CEO
Euzébio Angelotti Neto – DirectorTP Franchising Ltda.
Individualization: Limited Liability Company established in 
Brazil in August 2004.
Purpose: (a) to award franchises; (b) to temporarily award 
its franchisees, free of charge or for a fee, the right to use its 
brands, systems, knowledge, methods, patents, actuation 
technology, and any other rights, stakes, or assets, movable 
or immovable, tangible or intangible, owned by the Company, 
as present or future owner or licensee, for the development, 
implementation, operation, or management of the franchises 
that it may grant; (c) to develop any and all necessary activ -
ities to ensure, insofar as possible, the ongoing maintenance 
and perfecting of the actuation patterns of its franchise net -
work; (d) to develop implementation, operation, and manage -
ment models for its franchise network and their transfer to the 
franchisees; and (e) the distribution, sale, and marketing of air -
fares and related products, as well as any related or accessory 
business to its main objective, while also able to participate in 
other companies as partner or shareholder, either in Brazil or 
abroad, or in consortiums, as well as to carry out its own pro -
jects, or form partnerships with third parties in their projects, 
even to obtain tax benefits, pursuant to current legislation.
Paid-in Capital: THUS$6
Stake in 2020: 100.00%
YOY variation: 0.00%
% of Holding assets: 0.00543%
Managers:
Jerome Paul Jacques Cadier
Jefferson Cestari
Euzébio Angelotti Neto
272 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020LAN CARGO S.A. AND AFFILIATES
Incorporation: Established as a private limited company via 
the public deed dated May 22, 1970, before Notary Sergio 
Rodriguez Garces, its incorporation was materialized through 
the contribution of assets and liabilities from company 
Linea Aerea del Cobre Limitada (Ladeco Limitada), estab -
lished on September 3, 1958, before Notary Jaime Garcia 
Palazuelos.
By public deed dated November 20, 1998, and whose extract 
was registered on page 30,091 number 24,117 of the Santia -
go Trade Register and published in the Official Journal dated 
December 3, 1998, Ladeco S.A. was merged by incorporation 
into the subsidiary of LAN Chile S.A. called Fast Air Carrier S.A.
In the public deed dated October 22, 2001, wherein the 
Minutes from the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of 
Ladeco S.A. held on the same date were recorded, the com -
pany’s name was changed to “LAN Chile Cargo S.A. ” An ex -
cerpt of said deed was recorded in the Real Estate Registry 
of the Santiago Registry of Commerce on page 27,746 num -
ber 22,624 of the year 2001, and published in the Official 
Gazette on November 5, 2001. The name change became 
effective as of December 10, 2001.
In the public deed dated August 23, 2004, wherein the Min -
utes from the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of LAN 
Chile Cargo S.A. held on August 17, 2004 were recorded, the 
company’s name was changed to “LAN Cargo S.A. An ex -
cerpt of said deed was recorded in the Real Estate Regis -
try of the Santiago Registry of Commerce on page 26,994 
number 20,082 of the year 2004 and published in the Offi -
cial Gazette on August 30, 2004.The company has undergone various reforms, the latest of 
which is recorded in the public deed dated March 20, 2018 
before Santiago Notary Patricio Raby Benavente, and re -
corded on page 28810, N° 15276 of the Santiago Trade Reg -
ister for the year 2018, and published in the Official Gazette 
on September 2, 2018, by virtue of which the number of 
board members was reduced.
Purpose: To perform and develop, either on its own behalf 
or for third parties, the following: general transportation 
in any form and, specifically, air transport of passengers, 
cargo, and correspondence, within the country and abroad; 
tourism, lodging, and other related activities, in any form, 
within the country and abroad; purchase, sale, manufacture 
and/or integration, maintenance, leasing, or any other form 
of use, be it on its own behalf or for third parties, of air -
planes, spare parts, and aeronautical equipment, and their 
operation for any given purpose; provide all sorts of servic -
es and counseling related to transportation in general and, 
specifically, to air transportation in any of its forms, be it 
ground support, maintenance, technical assistance, or any 
other type, within the country and abroad, and all sorts of 
services and activities related to tourism, lodging, and oth -
er abovementioned activities and goods, within the country 
and abroad. In order to meet the abovementioned goals, the 
Company may perform investments or participate as part -
ner in other companies, either by purchasing stocks or rights 
or stakes in any other type of corporation, be it an already 
established one or one created in the future, and overall, 
perform all acts and enter all contracts necessary and rele -
vant to the purposes described.Paid-in Capital:  THUS$346,140
Profit for the period:  THUS$(268,450)
Stake in 2020: 99.898%
YOY variation: 0.00%
% of Holding assets: 3.69330%
Chairperson:
Andrés Bianchi Urdinola
Management team: 
Andrés Bianchi Urdinola (LATAM executive)
Ramiro Alfonsin Balza (LATAM executive)
Andres Del Valle Eitel (LATAM executive)
General Manager:
Andrés Bianchi Urdinola (LATAM executive)
LAN CARGO S.A. AFFILIATE COMPANIES
Fast Air Almacenes de Carga S.A.
Individualization:  Joint Stock Corporation established in Chile.
Purpose : To operate or manage the warehouses or storage 
facilities of customs deposits, where any type of good or 
merchandise can be stored until its withdrawal, for imports, 
exports, or other customs destination, pursuant to the 
terms stated within the Customs Ordinance, its rules, and 
other corresponding regulation.
273 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020Paid-in Capital: THUS$6,741
Stake in 2020: 99.89%
YOY variation:  0.00%
% of Holding assets: 0.05467%
Board members:
Ramiro Alfonsín Balza (LATAM executive)
Andrés Bianchi Urdinola (LATAM executive)
Roberto Alvo Milosawiewitsch (LATAM executive)
General Manager:
Javier Andrés Durán Fernández (LATAM executive)
Prime Airport Services Inc. and affiliate
Individualization: Corporation established in the United 
States.
Purpose : To operate or manage the warehouses or storage 
facilities of customs deposits, where any type of good or 
merchandise can be stored until its withdrawal, for imports, 
exports, or other customs destination, pursuant to the 
terms stated within the Customs Ordinance, its rules, and 
other corresponding regulation.
Paid-in Capital: THUS$2
Stake in 2020: 99.971%
YOY variation: 0.00%
% of Holding assets: 0.0%
Board members:
Andrés Bianchi Urdinola (LATAM Executive)LAN Cargo Overseas Limited and affiliates
Individualization:  Limited Liability Company established in 
Bahamas.
Purpose: To participate in any act or activity that is not 
expressly forbidden by any existing law in Bahamas.
Paid-in Capital: THUS$263,057
Stake in 2020:  99.98%
YOY variation:  0.00%
% of Holding assets: 1.30396%
Board members:
Joaquin Arias
Jorge Marin
Transporte Aéreo S.A.
Individualization:  Joint Stock Corporation established in Chile.
Purpose: To participate in any act or activity that is not ex -
pressly forbidden by any existing law in Bahamas.
Paid-in Capital: THUS$32,469
Stake in 2020: 87 .126%
YOY variation:  0.00%
% of Holding assets: 1.26838%
Board Members:
Andrés Del Valle Eitel (LATAM Executive)
Ramiro Alfonsín Balza (LATAM Executive)
Roberto Alvo Milosawlewitsch (LATAM Executive)General Manager:
José Tomás Covarrubias Cervero (LATAM executive)
LAN Cargo Inversiones S.A. and affiliate
Individualization: Joint Stock Corporation established in Chile.
Purpose : a) to trade in air transportation, in any of its forms, 
be it of passengers, correspondence, and/or cargo, and any -
thing related directly or indirectly to said activity within the 
country or abroad, on its own behalf or for third parties; b) to 
provide services releated to the maintenance and repair of own 
and third-party aircraft; c) to market and perform activities re -
lated to travel, tourism, and lodging; d) to make and/or partic -
ipate in all types of investments, both in Chile and abroad, in 
matters directly or indirectly related to aeronautical issues and/
or to any of the other corporate purposes; and e) to carry out 
and operate all other activities derived from the corporate pur -
pose and/or related, connected, contributory, or complementa -
ry activities thereof.
Paid-in Capital: THUS$147
Stake in 2020: 99.00%
YOY variation: 0.00%
% of Holding assets: 0.94033%
Board Members:
Andrés Bianchi Urdinola Plaza (LATAM executive)
Ramiro Alfonsín Balza (LATAM executive)
Roberto Alvo Milosawlewitsch (LATAM executive)
2 74 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020General Manager:
Andrés del Valle Eitel (LATAM executive)
Connecta Corporation
Individualization:  Corporation established in the United 
States.
Purpose: Ownership, operating leasing, and subleasing of 
aircraft.
Paid-in Capital: THUS$1
Stake in 2020: 100.00%
YOY variation: 0.00%
% of Holding assets: 0.25934%
General Manager:
Andrés Bianchi Urdinola
Línea Aérea Carguera de Colombia S.A.  
(a subsidiary of LAN Cargo Inversiones)
Individualization: Joint Stock Corporation established in 
Colombia.
Purpose: To provide public, commercial cargo, and corre -
spondence air transportation within the Republic of Colombia 
and from and to Colombia. As a secondary corporate purpose, 
the company can offer maintenance services to itself and to 
third parties; run its operations school and provide theoreti -
cal and practical instruction services, as well as tranining for 
its own and third-party aeronautical personnel in the various modes and specialties; import spare parts and replacements 
related to aeronautical activities, for itself and for third parties; 
provide airport services to third parties; represent or broker 
national and foreign air transport companies for passengers or 
cargo, and in general, companies that provide services to the 
aeronautical sector.
Paid-in Capital: THUS$796
Stake in 2020: 81.31%
YOY variation: 0.00%
% of Holding assets: 1.07710%
Board members:
Jorge Nicolas Cortazar Cardoso (permanent member)
Jose Mauricio Rodríguez Munera (permanent member)
Jaime Antonio Gongora Esguerra (permanent member)
Andrés Bianchi Urdinola (alternate Member)
Santiago Alvarez Matamoros (permanent member)
Helen Victoria Warner Sanchez (alternate member)
Management:
Jaime Antonio Gongora Esguerra  
(permanent legal representative)
Erika Zarante Bahamon  
(alternate legal representative)Mas Investment Limited (a subsidiary 
of LAN Overseas Limited)
Individualization: Limited Liability Company established in 
Bahamas.
Purpose : To perform all activities that are not expressily for -
bidden by Bahaman law, and specifically, to hold stakes in 
other LATAM affiliates.
Paid-in Capital: THUS$1,446
Stake in 2020: 100.00%
YOY variation: 0.00%
% of Holding assets: 0.14633%
Board members:
Andres Del Valle
Inversiones Aéreas S.A. (a subsidiary 
of Mas Investmet Limited)
Individualization:  Joint Stock Corporation established in Peru.
Purpose: To devote itself to all types of investments, 
mainly to those related to air transport and related activi -
ties and to any other activity that the Shareholders' Meet -
ing so defines.
Paid-in Capital: THUS$263.430
Stake in 2020: 66.43%
YOY variation:  0.00%
% of Holding assets: 1.17001%
275 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020Chairperson:
Antonio Olortegui Marky
Board Members:
Antonio Olortegui Marky 
Andrés Enrique del Valle Eitel
Ramiro Diego Alfonsín Balza
General Manager:
Antonio Olortegui Marky
Americonsult S.A de C.V.
Individualization:  Variable Capital Corporation established in 
Mexico.
Purpose : To provide and receive all manner of technical, 
administrative, or counseling services for industrial, com -
mercial, and service companies; Promote, organize, manage, 
supervise, provide, and direct personnel training courses; 
Perform all types of studies, plans, projects, and research; 
Engage the necessary professional and technical personnel.
Paid-in Capital: THUS$5
Stake in 2020: 99.80%
YOY variation: 0.00%
% of Holding assets: 0.00000%
Management:
Diana Olivares
Eduardo Opazo
Francisco José Sánchez González
Raúl Moreno GonzálezAmericonsult de Guatemala S.A.  
(a subsidiary of Americonsul S.A de C.V)
Individualization: Joint Stock Corporation established in 
Guatemala.
Purpose: Powers to represent, broker, negotiate, and market; 
Carry out all types of commercial and industrial activities; All 
manner of trade in general. Broad purpose that allows for all 
manner of operations within the country.
Paid-in Capital: THUS$76
Stake in 2020: 99.13%
YOY variation: 0.00%
% of Holding assets: 0.00056%
Chairperson:
Luis Ignacio Sierra Arriola
Board members:
Carlos Fernando Pellecer Valenzuela
Management:
Carlos Fernando Pellecer Valenzuela
Americonsult de Costa Rica S.A.  
(a subsidiary of Americonsul S.A de C.V)
Incorporation: Joint Stock Corporation established in Costa 
Rica.
Purpose : General trade; industry, agriculture, and livestock.Paid-in Capital: THUS$20
Stake in 2020: 99.80%
YOY variation: 0.00% 
% of Holding assets: 0.00744%
Management: 
Luis Ignacio Sierra Arriola
Luis Miguel Renguel López
Tomás Nassar Pérez
Marjorie Hernández Valverde.
Alejandro Fernández Espinoza (treasurer)
LATAM AIRLINES PERÚ S.A.
Constitución: Joint Stock Corporation established in Peru on 
February 20, 1997 .
Purpose : Provide air transportation services for passengers, 
cargo, and correspondence, both nationally and internation -
ally, pursuant to current civil aeronautical legislation.
Paid-in Capital: THUS$349,341
Resultado del ejercicio:  THUS$(175,485)
Stake in 2020: 99.81%
YOY variation: 0.00%
% of Holding assets: 0.0%
Chairperson:
Cesar Emilio Rodríguez Larraín Salinas
276 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020Management team: 
César Emilio Rodríguez Larraín Salinas
Ignacio Cueto Plaza (LATAM executive)
Enrique Cueto Plaza (LATAM executive)
Jorge Harten Costa
Andrés Rodríguez Larraín Miró Quesada
Emilio Rodríguez Larraín Miró Quesada
Roberto Alejandro Alvo Milosawlewitsch (LATAM executive)
General Manager:
Manuel Van Oordt
LAN INVERSIONES S.A.
Incorporation: Established as a private limited company 
through the Public Deed dated January 23, 1990 before No -
tary Humberto Quezada M., recorded in the Santiago Com -
merce Registry on page 3,462 N° 1,833 of the year 1990, and 
published in the Official Gazette on February 2, 1990.
Purpose : Perform investments in all manner of goods, be 
they movable or immovable, tangible or intangible. Moreo -
ver, the Company may establish other types of companies 
of any sort; acquire rights in already existing corporations, 
manage, modify, and settle them.
Paid-in Capital:  THUS$458
Resultado del ejercicio: THUS$50
Stake in 2020: 100.00%
YOY variation: 0.0%
% of Holding assets: 0.00849%Chairperson:
Enrique Cueto Plaza (LATAM executive)
Ramiro Alfonsín Balza (LATAM executive)
Roberto Alvo Milosawlewitsch (LATAM executive)
General Manager:
Gregorio Bekes (LATAM executive)
LATAM TRA VEL CHILE II S.A.
Individualization:  Joint Stock Corporation established in Chile.
Purpose : Operation, management, and representation of 
national or foreign companies or businesses in the lodging, 
shipping, air, and tourism activities in general; brokerage of 
tourist services, such as: (a) booking seats and selling tickets 
for all types of national transportation, (b) booking, acquisi -
tion, and sale of lodging and tourism services, and tickets to 
all types of entertainment, museums, monuments, and pro -
tected areas in the country, (c) organization, promotion, and 
sale of tourist packages, understood as the group of tourist 
services (food, transportation, lodging, etc.), adjusted or pro -
jected at the client’s behest, at a preset price, to be operated 
in national territory, (d) air, land, sea, and river tourist trans -
portation within the national territory; (e) leasing and char -
ter of planes, ships, buses, trains, and other forms of trans -
portation for the provision of tourist services; (f) any other 
activity directly or indirectly related to the provision of the 
abovementioned services; (g) everything related directly or 
indirectly to the rendering of the services mentioned above.Paid-in Capital: THUS$10
Stake in 2020: 100.00%
YOY variation: 0.00%
% of Holding assets: 0.0%
Board Members: 
Andrés del Valle Eitel (LATAM executive)
Roberto Alvo Milosawlewitsch (LATAM executive)
Ramiro Alfonsin Balza (LATAM executive)
General Manager:
Federico Helman (LATAM executive)
LATAM TRA VEL S.R.L.
Incorporation: Limited Liability Company established in 
Bolivia.
Purpose: Operation, management, and representation of 
national or foreign companies or businesses in the lodging, 
shipping, air, and tourism activities in general.
Paid-in Capital: THUS$0
Participación 2019: 99.00%
YOY variation: 0.00%
% of Holding assets: (0.00011%)
Management team: 
Julio Quintanilla Quiroga
Sergio Antelmo
277 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020LAN PAX GROUP S.A. AND AFFILIATES
Incorporation: Established as a private limited company 
through the Public Deed dated September 27, 2001 before 
Santiago Notary Patricio Zaldivar Mackenna, recorded in the 
Santiago Commerce Registry on page 25,636 N° 20,794 on 
October 4, 2001, and published in the Official Gazette on 
October 6, 2001.
Purpose : Perform investments in all manner of goods, be 
they movable or immovable, tangible or intangible. Within 
its line of business, the Company may create other types of 
companies of any sort; acquire rights in already existing cor -
porations, manage, modify, and settle them. Overall, it may 
acquire and sell all manner of goods and operate them, on its 
own behalf or for third parties, as well as perform all manner 
of acts and enter into all manner of contracts conducive to 
its goals. Exercise the development and operation of all other 
activities derived from and/or related, connected, contributo -
ry, or complementary to the company’s corporate purpose.
Paid-in Capital:  THUS$4,550
Resultado del ejercicio:  THUS$(302,794)
Stake in 2020: 100.00%
YOY variation: 0.00%
% of Holding assets: 0.00%
Board Members:
Andrés del Valle Eitel (LATAM executive)
Roberto Alvo Milosawlewitsch (LATAM executive)
Ramiro Alfonsin Balza (LATAM executive)
General Manager:
Andrés del Valle Eitel (LATAM executive)AFFILIATE COMPANIES OF LAN PAX 
GROUP S.A. AND STAKES
Inversora Cordillera S.A. and affiliates
Individualization: Joint Stock Corporation established in 
Argentina.
Purpose: To perform investments on its own behalf or for 
third parties, or related to third parties, in other stock compa -
nies, regardless of corporate purpose, established or to be es -
tablished, within the Argentine Republic or abroad, via acqui -
sition, incorporation, or sale of stakes, shares, quotas, bonds, 
options, commercial paper, convertible or otherwise, other 
transferrable securities, or other forms of investment allowed 
by the applicable regulation at any given moment, either to 
hold them in its own portfolio, or to sell them partially or in 
full, as may be the case. For this purpose, the company may 
carry out all transactions that are not expressly forbidden by 
law in compliance with its corporate purpose, and it has full 
legal capacity to acquire rights, contract obligations, and exer -
cise all acts that are not expressly forbidden by law or statute.
Paid-in Capital: THUS$432,827
Stake in 2020: 99.984%
YOY variation: 0.00%
% of Holding assets: 0.19894%
Chairman of the Board:  Jorge L. Perez Alati
Board Members:
Jorge L. Perez Alati (Chairman)
Manuel M. Benites (Chairman)
Rosario Altgelt (permanent member)LATAM Travel S.A.
Individualization:  Joint Stock Corporation established in 
Argentina.
Purpose : To perform on its own behalf or for third parties 
and/or in partnership with third parties, within the coun -
try and/or abroad, the following activities and transactions: 
A) COMMERCIAL: Carry out, intervene, develop, or design all 
manner of operations and activities involving the sale of air -
fare, land, river, and sea tickets, both nationally and abroad, 
or any other service related to the tourism industry in gen -
eral. The aforementioned services may be carried out on its 
own behalf or upon request from third parties, via mandate, 
commission, the use of systems or methods deemed con -
venient for said purpose, be they manual, mechanical, elec -
tronic, telephone, or internet methods, or any other type or 
technology that may suit said purpose. The Company may 
perform ad hoc or related activities to the purpose described, 
such as purchase and sales, imports, exports, reexport, li -
censing, and representation of all manner of goods, servic -
es, know-how, and technology directly or indirectly related 
to the purpose described; market, by any means the tech -
nology created or whose license or patent it has acquired 
or manages; develop, distribute, promote, and market all 
types of content for mass media of any sort. B) TOURIST: 
Via the performance of all activities related to the tourist 
and lodging industry, as responsible operator or third-party 
service operator, or as travel agent. Via the creation of ex -
change, tourism, excursion, and tour programs; the broker -
age and booking and rendering of services through any form 
of transportation within the country or abroad, and ticket 
sales; brokerage for hiring lodging services in the country or 
abroad; booking of hotels, motels, tourist apartments, and 
278 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020other tourist facilities; organization of trips and tourism for 
individuals or groups, excursions, or similar activities within 
the country or abroad; reception and assistance for tourists 
during their trip and stay in the country, provision of tour 
guide services, and forwarding of these services. C) CON -
TRACTOR: Via the acceptance, performance, and granting of 
representations, concessions, commissions, agencies, and 
mandates in general. D) CONSUL TING: Provide consulting, 
support, and management services on all matters related to 
the organization, installation, service, development, support, 
and promotion of companies related to air transportation 
activities, but not exclusive to said activity, in the manage -
ment, industrial, commercial, technical, and advertising are -
as, to be provided, when the nature of the issue so requires, 
by certified professionals per the corresponding regulation, 
and the provision of organization and management, care, 
maintenance, and surveillance services, and of the suita -
ble personnel, especially prepared to carry out said tasks. E) 
FINANCIAL: Via its participation in other companies already 
created or to be created, either through the acquisition of 
shares in established companies, or through the establish -
ment of new companies, via the awarding or securing of 
credits, loans, cash advances secured or unsecured by col -
lateral o personal guarantee; the awarding of guarantees and 
sureties in favor of third parties for a fee or free of charge; 
placement of funds in foreign currency, gold or currencies, or 
bank deposits of any type. To achieve these purposes, the 
company has full legal capacity to exercise all acts not ex -
pressly forbidden by law or statue, including making borrow -
ings publicly or privately via the issuance of debentures and 
tradable securities, and performing all manner of financial 
transactions except those comprised under Law 21,526 and 
any others requiring a public tender process.Paid-in Capital: THUS$3,884
Stake in 2020: 95.00%
YOY variation: 0.00%
% of Holding assets: 0.00%
Board members:
Jerónimo F. Cortes
Atlantic Aviation Investments LLC
Individualization:  Limited Liability Company established in 
the United States.
Purpose: Any and all lawful business that the company may 
undertake.
Paid-in Capital: THUS$1
Stake in 2020: 99.00%
YOY variation: 0.00%
% of Holding assets: 0.07317%
Board Members:
Andrés del Valle Eitel
Management:
Andrés del Valle (LATAM executive)LATAM Airlines Ecuador S.A.
Individualization:  Joint Stock Corporation established in Ecuador.
Purpose: Combined air transport of passengers, cargo, and 
correspondence.
Paid-in Capital: THUS$18,625
Stake in 2020: 100.00%
YOY variation: 0.00%
% of Holding assets: 0.05462%
Board members:
Xavier Rivera
Maximiliano Naranjo
Daniel Leng
Professional Counsellor C.l.
CEO:
Maximiliano Naranjo
Holdco Ecuador S.A.
Individualization: Joint Stock Corporation established in Chile.
Purpose : Carry out all manner of investments for profitable 
purposes pertaining to tangible or intangible, movable or im -
movable assets, either in Chile or abroad.
Paid-in Capital:  THUS$491
Stake in 2020: 54.791%
YOY variation: 0.0%
% of Holding assets: 0.00621%
279 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020Board Members:
Antonio Stagg (LATAM executive)
Manuel Van Oordt (LATAM executive)
Mariana Villagómez (LATAM executive)
Board Members:
Ramiro Alfonsin Balza (LATAM executive)
 
Aerovias de Integración Regional S.A., Aires S.A.
Individualization: Joint Stock Corporation established in 
Colombia.
Purpose: The company’s purpose shall be the operation of 
commercial, national or international air transport services, in 
any of their modalities, and therefore, the entering into and 
execution of contracts for transporting passengers, objects 
and baggage, mail and cargo in general, in accordance with the 
operating permits issued by the Special Administrative Unit of 
Civil Aeronautics, or of the entity that in the future should re -
place it, adhering fully to the provisions of the Code of Com -
merce, the Colombian Aeronautical Regulations, and any other 
regulations governing the matter. Likewise, to provide main -
tenance and adaptation services for the equipment related to 
the operation of air transportation services within the country 
and abroad. In order to fulfill said purpose, the company will 
be authorized to invest in other national or foreign companies 
with purposes that are the same, similar, or complementary to 
the company’s. To fulfill its corporate purpose, the company 
may, among other things: (a) review, inspect, or provide main -
tenance and/or repairs to its own or third-party aircraft, as well 
as spare parts and accessories, through the Company’s Aero -
nautical Repair Stations, providing the necessary trainings for said purpose; (b) organize, establish, and invest in commercial 
transportation companies in Colombia or abroad to perform, 
industrially or commercially, the economic activity that is its 
purpose, so the company can acquire, for any purpose, air -
planes, spare parts, replacements, and accessories of any kind, 
necessary for public air transportation, as well as sell them, 
and to set up and operate stations to repair and give mainte -
nance to the aircraft; (c) enter leasing, charter, code-sharing, 
service rendering, or any other contracts pertaining to aircraft 
to exercise its purpose; (d) to operate scheduled air transport 
lines for passengers, cargo, correspondence, and securities, as 
well as the vehicle that will make it possible to coordinate the 
social management; (e) merge with equal, similar, or comple -
mentary companies to perform its activity; (f) accept nation -
al or foreign representations of services in the same sector or 
in complementary sectors; (g) acquire movable or immova -
ble assets to develop its corporate purposes, build said facil -
ities or constructions, such as warehouses, deposits, offices, 
etc., sell, or encumber them; (h) carry out imports and ex -
ports, as well as all foreign trade operations required; (i) take 
money on interest and provide personal, real, and bank guar -
antees, either on its own behalf or for third parties; (j) partici -
pate in all manner of securities transactions, such as purchase 
or sale of debentures acquired by third parties when resulting 
in an economic or equity benefit for the company, and ob -
tain loans through bonds or other liability instruments; (l) form 
partnerships and acquire shares and stakes in already estab -
lished companies, both national and foreign; make contribu -
tions to one and all; (m) merge with other companies and form 
partnerships with similar companies to ensure provision of air 
transportation or for other purposes pertaining to the industry; 
(n) promote, provide technical assistance, finance, or man -
age companies or associations related to the corporate pur -
pose; (o) carry out all manner of civil or commercial, industrial or financial contracts necessary or convenient to achieve its own 
purposes; (p) do business and fulfill activities that will ensure 
the flow of clients, and obtain the necessary authorizations and 
licenses from the corresponding authorities to provide its servic -
es; (q) develop and carry out any other activities resulting from 
and/or related, connected, contributory, or complementary to the 
corporate purpose, including the provision of tourist services un -
der any and all forms allowed by law, such as travel agencies; (r) 
practice any business or legal activity, whether or not related to 
trade, as long as it is related to its corporate purpose, or that it 
enables a more rational operation of the public service that it will 
provide; and (s) make any manner of investments to employ the 
funds and reserves created pursuant to law or the current bylaws.
Paid-in Capital: THUS$3,389
Stake in 2020: 98.94%
YOY variation: 0.00%
% of Holding assets: 0.00%
Board Members:
Jorge Nicolas Cortazar Cardoso (permanent member)
Jaime Antonio Gongora Esguerra (permanent member)
José Mauricio Rodríguez Munera (permanent member)
Gabriel Vallejo López (alternate member)
Helen Victoria Warner Sanchez (alternate member)
Santiago Alvarez Matamoros (permanent member)
Management:
Erika Zarante Bahamon (permanent legal representative)
Jaime Antonio Gongora Esguerra (alternate legal representative)
 
280 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020LAN Argentina S.A  
(a subsidiary of Inversora Cordillera S.A.)
Individualization:  Joint Stock Corporation established in 
Argentina.
Purpose : Carry out on its own behalf or for others, inde -
pendently or associated with third parties in the country or 
abroad, the following activities: I) AERONAUTICAL: In all its 
manifestations, scheduled and/or unscheduled (chartered 
and air taxi) domestic and international air transportation, 
of persons or objects, post, clearing, works and air services 
in general, as a public or private concession; operate public 
services, piloting school and personnel training related to air 
navigation, design, engineering, research, assembly, manu -
facturing, import and/or export of all types of aircraft and 
their parts, equipment, accessories and materials for air nav -
igation, as well as provide maintenance and technical assis -
tance services thereof. II) COMMERCIAL: Thorough purchas -
es, sales, swaps, location, in all its forms, leasing, renting, 
importing and exporting all types of goods, supplying and 
transferring aircraft, their parts, components, accessories, 
materials and inputs, brokerage services in the formalization 
of insurance covering the risks of contracted services and 
the performance of all kinds of commercial operations that 
normally take place at airports. III) TOURISM: Through the 
creation, development and operation of resorts and proper -
ties intended for the accommodation of people, as well as 
tourist activity in all its forms, including the rental of mo -
tor vehicles and tourist reservation systems. IV) SERVICES: 
Rendering maintenance and technical assistance services on 
all types of aircraft, equipment, accessories and materials 
for air navigation, computer reservation services, transport 
of persons and/or cargo and/or post, by land or water, as an accessory to aeronautical transportation and/or integrat -
ing a combined transportation with it, as well as any assis -
tance to aircraft activities, such as the provision of food and/
or elements to be used on board. V) MANDATES: Comply 
with mandates and commissions. VI) FINANCIAL: Carry out 
any type of financial transactions, in general, excluding those 
provided for in the Law on Financial Institutions and any oth -
ers that require public tendering. VII) REPRESENTATIONS: Of 
national and foreign persons related to activities linked to its 
corporate purpose. VIII) INVESTOR: Establish and participate 
in companies through shares, promote their creation, invest 
in them the necessary capital for such purposes, and render 
services to them within the limits established. For this pur -
pose, the Company has full legal capacity to acquire rights, 
obligations, and exercise acts that are not prohibited by law 
or by these Bylaws. 
Paid-in Capital: THUS$446,474
Stake in 2020: 95.00%
YOY variation: 0.00%
% of Holding assets: 0.17691%
Board members:
Manuel Maria Benites
Jorge Luis Perez Alati
Rosario Altgelt
Management:
Manuel María Benites
Jorge Luis Perez Alati
Jerónimo Federico Cortes
Diego Alejandro Potenza
Christian Martin Bevacqua
Javier Norberto MaciasTECHNICAL TRAINING LATAM S.A.
Incorporation:  Established as a Joint Stock Corporation per 
the public deed dated December 23, 1997 in Santiago de 
Chile, and then recorded in the Santiago Commerce Registry 
on page 878 number 675 of the year 1998.
Purpose : Its corporate purpose is to provide technical training 
and other types of related services.
Paid-in Capital:  THUS$752
Resultado del ejercicio:  THUS$60
Stake in 2020: 100.00%
YOY variation: 0.00%
% of Holding assets: 0.00994%
Board members:
Sebastián Acuto (LATAM executive)
Ramiro Alfonsín Balza (LATAM executive)
Hernán Pasman (LATAM executive)
General Manager:
Guido Opazo Aneotz (LATAM executive)
 
JARLETUL S.A.
Incorporation: Joint Stock Corporation established in Uru -
guay in November 2017 .
Purpose: Its corporate purpose is the operation, manage -
ment, and representation of national or foreign companies or 
businesses in the lodging, shipping, air, and tourism activities 
in general.Gregorio Francisco Bekes
Andres del Valle Eitel
Julieta Susana Ventura
281 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020Paid-in Capital: THUS$0
Resultado del ejercicio:  THUS$(332)
Stake in 2020: 100.00%
YOY variation:  0.00%
% of Holding assets: (0.00%)
Chairperson:
Javier Norberto Macías Raschía
Board members: 
Patricia Cáceres Araya
 
PROFESIONAL AIRLINE SERVICES INC.
Incorporation: Company established in the U.S. on February 
1994.
Purpose : Its corporate purpose is airport staffing services.
Paid-in Capital:  THUS$63
Resultado del ejercicio: THUS$ 1,156
Stake in 2020: 100.00%
YOY variation: 0.00%
% Sobre activos Matriz:  0.017% 
Board members: 
Francisco Arana
 LATAM FINANCE LIMITED
Constitución:  Company established in the Caiman Islands in 
September 2016.
Purpose : Its purpose is the issuance of secured bonds.
Paid-in Capital:  THUS$0
Resultado del ejercicio:  THUS$(105,100)
Stake in 2020: 100.00%
YOY variation: 0.00%
% of Holding assets: (0.00)%
Chairperson:  
Not applicable.
Board Members: 
Andrés del Valle Eitel
Ramiro Alfonsín Balza
Joaquín Arias Acuña
PEUCO FINANCE LIMITED
Constitución: Joint Stock Corporation established in the Cai -
man Islands in November 2015.
Purpose: Its purpose is the participation in financing aircraft.Paid-in Capital: THUS$0
Resultado del ejercicio:  THUS$0
Stake in 2020: 100.00%
YOY variation: 0.00%
% of Holding assets: 0% 
Chairperson:
Not applicable.
Board Members:
Andrés del Valle Eitel
Joaquín Arias Acuña
282 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020TAM S.A. AND AFFILIATES
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL SITUATION
ASSETS
As at December 
2020
MUS$As at December 
2019
MUS$
Total current assets 1.492.792 2.583.040
Total non-current assets 1.617 .263 2.456.199
Total activos 3.110.055 5.039.239
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
As at December 
2020
MUS$As at December 
2019
MUS$
LIABILITIES
Total current liabilities 2.206.089 2.558.655
 Total non-current liabilities 798.846 941.279
Total liabilities 3.004.935 3.499.934
EQUITY
Equity attributable to the owners of the parent company 104.407 1.537 .799
Participations no parent companys 713 1.506
Total Equity 105.120 1.539.305
Total Equity and liabilities 3.110.055 5.039.239TAM S.A. AND AFFILIATES
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT BY FUNCTION
As at December 
2020
MUS$As at December 
2019
MUS$
Income from ordinary activities 1.809.314 5.013.294
Cost of sales (2.109.529) (4.093.465)
Gross gain (loss) (300.215) 919.829
Gain (loss) from operating activities (847 .429) 348.149
Gain (loss) before tax (831.918) 270.031
Income tax expense (193.894) (83.892)
Gain (loss) for the fiscal year (1.025.812) 186.139
Gain (loss) attributable to the owners of the parent company (1.025.624) 185.720
Gain (loss) attributable to non-controlling stakes (188) 419
Gain (loss) for the fiscal year (1.025.812) 186.139AFFILIATES AND SUBSIDIARIES
283 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020TAM S.A. AND AFFILIATES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
As at December 
2020
MUS$As at December 
2019
MUS$
GAIN (LOSS) FOR THE FISCAL YEAR (1.025.812) 186.139
Other components of other comprehensive income, before tax (570.327) 46.522
Taxes on earnings accrued related to components of other comprehen -
sive income that will not be classified under income for the fiscal year 1.047 (1.390)
Other comprehensive income (569.280) 45.132
Total comprehensive income (1.595.092) 231.271
Comprehensive income attributable to:
Comprehensive income attributable to the owners of the parent company (1.594.481) 102.515
Comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling stakes (611) 128.756
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (1.595.092) 231.271TAM S.A. AND AFFILIATES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
Equity attributable 
to the owners of the 
parent company          
MUS$         Non-controlling  
stakes
MUS$Total
equity
MUS$
Equity
January 1, 2020 1.537 .799 1.506 1.539.305
Total comprehensive income (1.594.481) (611) (1.595.092)
Total transactions with shareholders 161.089 (182) 160.907
Final balance current year 
December 31, 2020 104.407 713 105.120
284 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020TAM S.A. AND AFFILIATES
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT - DIRECT METHOD
As at December 
2020
MUS$As at December 
2019
MUS$
Net cash flows from operating activities (367 .638) 795.468
Net cash flows used in investment activities 227 .469 (328.102)
Net cash flows from (used in) financing activities 134.607 (393.503)
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents, before F/X changes (5.562) 73.863
Effects of F/X variation on cash and cash equivalents (76.154) 19.517
 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (81.716) 93.380
CASH AND CASH EQUIV ALENTS AT THE END OF THE FISCAL YEAR 237 .468 319.184LAN CARGO S.A. AND AFFILIATES
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL SITUATION  
ASSETS As at As at
December December
2020 2019
MUS$ MUS$
Total current assets 788.956 501.870
Total non-current assets 673.874 477.133
Total assets 1.462.830 979.003
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY As at As at
December December
2020 2019
MUS$ MUS$
LIABILITIES
Total current liabilities 811.274 447 .569
Total non-current liabilities 133.172 182.829
Total liabilities 944.446 630.398
EQUITY
Equity attributable to the owners of the parent company 578.004 349.351
non-controlling stakes (59.620) (746)
Total Equity 518.384 348.605
Total Equity and liabilities 1.462.830 979.003
285 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020LAN CARGO S.A. AND AFFILIATES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
As at  
December 
2020
MUS$As at  
December 
2019
MUS$
GAIN (LOSS) FOR THE FISCAL YEAR (268.450) 4.210
Total Other comprehensive income not to be reclassified as income for the fiscal 
year before tax (594) (369)
Total Other comprehensive income to be classified as income for the 
fiscal year before tax (347) 265
Other components of other comprehensive income, before tax (941) (104)
Taxes on earnings accrued related to components of other com -
prehensive income that will not be classified under income for the 
fiscal year  - 100
Other comprehensive income (941) (4)
Total comprehensive income (269.391) 4.206
Comprehensive income attributable to:
Comprehensive income attributable to the owners of the 
parent company (193.601) 4.670
Comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling stakes (75.630) (464)
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (269.231) 4.206LAN CARGO S.A. AND AFFILIATES
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT BY FUNCTION
As at  
December 
2020
MUS$As at  
December 
2019
MUS$
Income from ordinary activities 532.547 679.204
Cost of sales (741.113) (738.243)
Gross gain (loss) (208.566) (59.039)
Gain (loss) from operating activities 238.021 14.069
Gain (loss) before tax (268.048) 14.120
Income tax expense (402) (9.910)
Gain (loss) for the fiscal year (268.450) 4.210
Gain (loss) attributable to the owners of the parent company(192.820) 4.674
Gain (loss) attributable to non-controlling stakes(75.630) (464)
Gain (loss) for the fiscal year (268.450) 4.210
286 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020LAN CARGO S.A. AND AFFILIATES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
Equity attributable 
to the owners of the 
parent company          
MUS$         Non-controlling  
stakes
MUS$Total
Equity
MUS$
Equity
January 1, 2020 349.351 (746) 348.605
Total comprehensive income (193.601)              (75.630)            (269.231)            
Increase (decrease)
from transfers and other changes 422.254              16.756            439.010            
Final balance current year
December 31, 2020 578.004              (59.620)            518.384            LAN CARGO S.A. AND AFFILIATES
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT – DIRECT METHOD
As at  
December 
2020
MUS$As at  
December 
2019
MUS$
Net cash flows from operating activities 27.4 16 (11.294)
Net cash flows used in investment activities (20.960) (3.885)
Net cash flows from (used in) financing activities (10.166) (9.232)
Net increase (decrease) cash and cash equivalents, before F/X changes (3.710) (24.411)
CASH AND CASH EQUIV ALENTS AT THE END OF THE FISCAL YEAR 54.607 58.317
287 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020LATAM AIRLINES PERÚ S.A.
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL SITUATION
ASSETSAs at  
December 
2020
MUS$As at  
December 
2019
MUS$
Total current assets
Total non-current assets 629.910 481.592
31.811 37.7 71
Total assets
661.721 519.363
LIABILITIES AND EQUITYAs at  
December 
2020
MUS$As at  
December 
2019
MUS$
LIABILITIES
Total current liabilities 484.450 508.541
 Total non-current liabilities 1.648 2.131
Total liabilities 486.098 510.672
EQUITY
Equity attributable to the owners of the parent company 175.623 8.691
Total Equity 175.623 8.691
Total Equity and liabilities 661.721 519.363LATAM AIRLINES PERÚ S.A.
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT BY FUNCTION
As at December 
2019
MUS$As at December 
2019
MUS$
Income from ordinary activities 372.255 1.186.668
Cost of sales (467 .622) (1.054.610)
Gross gain (loss) (95.367) 132.058
Gain (loss) from operating activities (165.263) (2.816)
Gain (loss) before tax (171.522) 5.065
Income tax expense (3.964) (8.615)
Gain (loss) for the fiscal year (175.486) (3.550)
Gain (loss) attributable to the owners of the parent company (175.486) (3.550)
Gain (loss) for the fiscal year (175.486) (3.550)
288 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020LATAM AIRLINES PERÚ S.A.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
As at  
December 
2019
MUS$As at  
December 
2019
MUS$
GAIN (LOSS) FOR THE FISCAL YEAR (175.486) (3.550)
Total comprehensive income (175.486) (3.550)
Comprehensive income attributable to:
Comprehensive income attributable to the owners of the parent company (175.486) (3.550)
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (175.486) (3.550)LATAM AIRLINES PERÚ S.A.
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT - DIRECT METHOD
As at  
December 
2019
MUS$As at  
December 
2019
MUS$
Net cash flows from operating activities (263.744) (30.385)
Net cash flows used in investment activities (260) (3.630)
Net cash flows from (used in) financing activities 270.391 34.913
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents, before F/X changes 6.387 898
 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 6.387 898
CASH AND CASH EQUIV ALENTS AT THE END OF THE FISCAL YEAR 45.628 39.241
289 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020LATAM AIRLINES PERÚ S.A.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
Equity attributable 
to the owners of the 
parent company          
MUS$         Non-controlling  
stakes
MUS$Total
equity
MUS$
Equity
January 1, 2018 8.691  - 8.691
Total comprehensive income (175.486)  - (175.486)
Total transactions with shareholders 342.418  - 342.418
Final balance current year
December 31, 2018 175.623  - 175.623LATAM AIRLINES PERÚ S.A.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
Equity attributable 
to the owners of the 
parent company          
MUS$         Non-controlling  
stakes
MUS$Total
equity
MUS$
Equity
January 1, 2019 10.103  - 10.103
Total comprehensive income (3.550)  - (3.550)
Total transactions with shareholders 2.138 2.138
Final balance current year  
December 31, 2019 8.691  - 8.691
290 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020INVERSIONES LAN S.A.
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL SITUATION
ASSETSAs at
December
2020
MUS$As at
December
2019
MUS$
Total current assets 1.336 1.271
Total non-current assets 58 58
Total assets 1.394 1.329
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
As at
December
2020
MUS$As at
December
2019
MUS$
LIABILITIES
Total current liabilities 21 5
Total non-current liabilities 44 45
Total liabilities 65 50
EQUITY
Equity attributable to the owners of the parent company 1.329 1.279
Total Equity 1.329 1.279
Total Equity and liabilities 1.394 1.329INVERSIONES LAN S.A.
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT BY FUNCTION
As at As at
December December
2020 2019
MUS$ MUS$
Income from ordinary activities  -  - 
Cost of sales  -  - 
Gross gain (loss)  -  - 
Gain (loss) from operating activities (7) (8)
Gain (loss) before tax 23 (54)
Income tax expense 27  - 
Gain (loss) for the fiscal year 50 (54)
Gain (loss) attributable to the owners of the parent company 50 (54)
Gain (loss) for the fiscal year 50 (54)
291 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020INVERSIONES LAN S.A.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
As at
December
2020
MUS$As at
December
2019
MUS$
GAIN (LOSS) FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 50 (54)
Total other comprehensive income not to be reclassified as 
income for the fiscal year before tax  -  - 
Total Other comprehensive income to be classified as 
income for the fiscal year before tax  -  - 
Other components of other comprehensive income, 
before tax  -  - 
Taxes on earnings accrued related to components of other 
comprehensive income that will not be classified under 
income for the fiscal year  -  - 
Other comprehensive income  -  - 
Total comprehensive income 50 (54)
Comprehensive income attributable to:
Comprehensive income attributable to the owners of the parent company 50 (54)
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 50 (54)INVERSIONES LAN S.A.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
Equity attributable 
to the owners of the 
parent company          
MUS$         Non-controlling  
stakes
MUS$Total
equity
MUS$
Equity
January 1, 2020 1.279  - 1.279
Total comprehensive income 50  - 50
Final balance current year
December 31, 2020 1.329  - 1.329
292 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020INVERSIONES LAN S.A.
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT - DIRECT METHOD
As at As at
December December
2020 2019
MUS$ MUS$
Net cash flows from operating activities 24 (10)
Net cash flows used in investment activities  -  - 
Net increase (decrease) cash and cash equivalents, before F/X changes 24 (10)
CASH AND CASH EQUIV ALENTS AT THE END OF THE FISCAL YEAR 483 459LATAM TRA VEL S.R.L.
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL SITUATION
ASSETS As at As at
December December
2020 2019
MUS$ MUS$
Total current assets 1.128 161
Total assets 1.128 161
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY As at As at
December December
2020 2019
MUS$ MUS$
LIABILITIES
Total current liabilities 1.173 138
Total liabilities 1.173 138
EQUITY
Equity attributable to the owners of the parent company (45) 23
Total Equity (45) 23
Total Equity and liabilities 1.128 161
293 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020LATAM TRA VEL S.R.L.
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT BY FUNCTION
As at As at
December December
2020 2019
MUS$ MUS$
Income from ordinary activities 11 166
Gross gain (loss)11 166
Gain (loss) from operating activities (68) 44
Gain (loss) before tax (68) 44
Gain (loss) for the fiscal year (68) 44
Gain (loss) attributable to the owners of the parent company (68) 44
Gain (loss) for the fiscal year (68) 44LATAM TRA VEL S.R.L.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
As at As at
December December
2020 2019
MUS$ MUS$
GAIN (LOSS) FOR THE FISCAL YEAR (68) 44
Total comprehensive income (68) 44
Comprehensive income attributable to:
Comprehensive income attributable to the owners of the parent company (68) 44
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (68) 44
294 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020LATAM TRA VEL S.R.L.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
Equity attributable 
to the owners  
of the  
parent company
MUS$Non-controlling 
stakes
MUS$Total  
equity
MUS$
Equity
January 1, 2020 23  - 23
Total comprehensive income (68)  - (68)
Final balance current year
December 31, 2020 (45)  - (45)LATAM TRA VEL S.R.L.
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT - DIRECT METHOD
As at As at
December December
2019 2019
MUS$ MUS$
Net cash flows from operating activities (59) 20
Net cash flows used in investment activities (28)  - 
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents, before F/X changes (87) 20
 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents,  
 before F/X changes (87) 20
CASH AND CASH EQUIV ALENTS AT THE END OF THE FISCAL YEAR (67) 20
295 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020LATAM TRA VEL CHILE II S.A.
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL SITUATION
ASSETS As at As at
December December
2020 2019
MUS$ MUS$
Total current assets
293 539
Total assets 650  - 
943 539
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Al 31 de Al 31 de
diciembre de diciembre de
2020 2019
LIABILITIES MUS$ MUS$
Total current liabilities 1.625 1.122
216 99
Total liabilities 1.841 1.221
EQUITY
Equity attributable to the owners of the parent company (898) (682)
Total Equity (898) (682)
Total Equity and liabilities 943 539LATAM TRA VEL CHILE II S.A.
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT BY FUNCTION
As at  
December 
2020
MUS$As at  
December 
2019
MUS$
Income from ordinary activities 407  - 
Cost of sales (19)  - 
Gross gain (loss) 388  - 
Gain (loss) from operating activities (599)  - 
Gain (loss) before tax (599) (78)
Income tax expense 383  - 
Gain (loss) for the fiscal year (216) (78)
Gain (loss) attributable to the owners of the parent company (216) (78)
Gain (loss) for the fiscal year (216) (78)
LATAM TRA VEL CHILE II S.A.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
As at  
December 
2020
MUS$As at  
December 
2019
MUS$
Gain (loss) for the fiscal year (216) (78)
Total comprehensive income (216) (78)
Comprehensive income attributable to:
Comprehensive income attributable to the owners of the parent company (216) (78)
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (216) (78)
296 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020LATAM TRA VEL CHILE II S.A.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
Equity attributable 
to the owners  
of the  
parent company
MUS$Non-controlling 
stakes
MUS$Total  
equity
MUS$
Equity
January 1, 2020 (682)  - (682)
Total comprehensive income (216)  - (216)
Final balance current year
December 31, 2020 (898)  - (898)LATAM TRA VEL CHILE II S.A.
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT - DIRECT METHOD
As at  
December 
2020
MUS$As at  
December 
2019
MUS$
Net cash flows from operating activities 195 316
Net cash flows used in investment activities (4)  - 
Net cash flows from (used in) financing activities (465)  - 
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents,  
before F/X changes (274) 316
 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (274) 316
CASH AND CASH EQUIV ALENTS AT THE END OF THE FISCAL YEAR 260 534
297 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020LAN PAX GROUP AND AFFILIATES
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL SITUATION
ASSETS As at As at
December December
2020 2019
MUS$ MUS$
Total current assets 204.062 312.596
Total non-current assets 200.875 320.091
Total assets 404.937 632.687
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY As at As at
December December
2020 2019
MUS$ MUS$
LIABILITIES
Total current liabilities 1.415.327 1.280.202
Total non-current liabilities 209.610 207 .060
Total liabilities 1.624.937 1.487 .262
EQUITY
Equity attributable to the owners of the parent company (1.220.319) (856.611)
Non-controlling stakes 319 2.036
Total Equity (1.220.000) (854.575)
Total Equity and liabilities 404.937 632.687LAN PAX GROUP AND AFFILIATES
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT BY FUNCTION
As at As at
December December
2020 2019
MUS$ MUS$
Income from ordinary activities 187. 176 741.308
Cost of sales (266.110) (680.034)
Gross gain (loss) (78.934) 61.274
Gain (loss) from operating activities (336.276) (81.751)
Gain (loss) before tax (260.367) (10.284)
Income tax expense (42.427) (16.267)
Gain (loss) for the fiscal year (302.794) (26.551)
Gain (loss) attributable to the owners of the parent company (291.257) (26.927)
Gain (loss) attributable to non-controlling stakes (11.537) 376
Gain (loss) for the fiscal year (302.794) (26.551)
298 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020LAN PAX GROUP AND AFFILIATES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
As at As at
December December
2020 2019
MUS$ MUS$
GAIN (LOSS) FOR THE FISCAL YEAR (302.794) (26.551)
Other components of other comprehensive income, before tax (66.845) (64.586)
Other comprehensive income (66.845) (64.586)
Total comprehensive income (369.639) (91.137)
Comprehensive income attributable to:
Comprehensive income attributable to the owners of the parent company (367 .922) (91.551)
Comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling stakes (1.717) 414
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (369.639) (91.137)
LAN PAX GROUP AND AFFILIATES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
Equity attributable to 
the owners of the  
parent company
MUS$Non-controlling 
stakes
MUS$Total  
equity
MUS$
Equity
January 1, 2020 (856.611) 2.036 (854.575)
Total comprehensive income (367 .922) (1.717) (369.639)
Increase (decrease)
from transfers and other changes 4.214  - 4.214
Final balance current year
December 31, 2020 (1.220.319) 319 (1.220.000)LAN PAX GROUP AND AFFILIATES
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT – DIRECT METHOD
As at As at
December December
2020 2019
MUS$ MUS$
Net cash flows from operating activities (61.606) 310.838
Net cash flows used in investment activities (5.607) (598.000)
Net cash flows from (used in) financing activities(2.224) 341.767
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents, before F/X 
changes(69.437) 54.604
Effects of F/X variation on cash and cash equivalents12.010 (313)
 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (57 .427) 54.291
CASH AND CASH EQUIV ALENTS AT THE END OF THE FISCAL YEAR 61.307 118.734
299 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020HOLDCO I S.A.
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL SITUATION
ASSETS As at As at
December December
2020 2019
MUS$ MUS$
Total current assets 6 6
Total non-current assets 351.593 351.586
Total assets 351.599 351.592
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY As at As at
December December
2020 2019
LIABILITIES MUS$ MUS$
Total current liabilities 2.152 2.040
Total liabilities 2.152 2.040
EQUITY
Equity attributable to the owners of the parent company 349.441 349.552
Total Equity 349.441 349.552
Total Equity and liabilities 351.593 351.592HOLDCO I S.A.
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT BY FUNCTION
As at As at
December December
2020 2019
MUS$ MUS$
Gain (loss) from operating activities  - (4)
Gain (loss) before tax (111) 159
Income tax expense  -  - 
Gain (loss) for the fiscal year (111) 159
Gain (loss) attributable to the owners of the parent company (111) 159
Gain (loss) for the fiscal year (111) 159
300 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020HOLDCO I S.A.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
As at As at
December December
2020 2019
MUS$ MUS$
GAIN (LOSS) FOR THE FISCAL YEAR (111) 159
Total comprehensive income (111) 159
Comprehensive income attributable to:
Comprehensive income attributable to the owners of the parent company (111) 159
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (111) 159HOLDCO I S.A.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
Equity attributable to 
the owners of the  
parent company
MUS$Non-controlling 
stakes
MUS$Total  
equity
MUS$
Equity
January 1, 2020 349.552  - 349.552
Total comprehensive income (111)  - (111)
Final balance current year
December 31, 2018 349.441  - 349.441
301 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020HOLDCO I S.A.
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT - DIRECT METHOD
As at As at
December December
2020 2019
MUS$ MUS$
Net cash flows from operating activities  -  - 
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents, 
before F/X changes  -  - 
 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  -  - 
CASH AND CASH EQUIV ALENTS AT THE END OF THE FISCAL YEAR 6 6TECHNICAL TRAINING LATAM S.A.
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL SITUATION
ASSETS As at As at
December December
2020 2019
MUS$ MUS$
Total current assets 1.345.034 1.610.212
Total non-current assets 202.075 170.347
Total assets 1.547 .109 1.780.559
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY As at As at
December December
2020 2019
MUS$ MUS$
LIABILITIES
Total current liabilities 118.243 358.436
Total non-current liabilities 325.370 445.791
Total liabilities 443.613 804.227
EQUITY
Equity attributable to the owners of the parent company 1.103.496 976.332
Non-controlling stakes  -  - 
Total Equity 1.103.496 976.332
Total Equity and liabilities 1.547 .109 1.780.559
302 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020TECHNICAL TRAINING LATAM S.A.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
As at
December
2020
MUS$As at
December
2019
MUS$
GAIN (LOSS) FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 40.403 (206.340)
Other components of other comprehensive income, before tax 86.761 (102.111)
Other comprehensive income 86.761 (102.111)
Total comprehensive income 127.164 (308.451)
Comprehensive income attributable to:
Comprehensive income attributable to the owners of the parent company 127.164 (308.451)
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 127.164 (308.451)TECHNICAL TRAINING LATAM S.A.
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT BY FUNCTION
As at As at
December December
2020 2019
MUS$ MUS$
Income from ordinary activities 698.676 853.443
Cost of sales (584.594) (1.005.473)
Gross gain (loss) 114.082 (152.030)
Gain (loss) from operating activities (128.632) (150.965)
Gain (loss) before tax (128.632) (150.965)
Income tax expense 169.035 (55.375)
Gain (loss) for the fiscal year 40.403 (206.340)
Gain (loss) attributable to the owners of the parent company 40.403 (206.340)
Gain (loss) for the fiscal year 40.403 (206.340)TECHNICAL TRAINING LATAM S.A.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
Equity attributable 
to the owners  
of the  
parent company
M$Non-controlling 
stakes
M$Total  
equity
M$
Equity
January 1, 2020 976.332  - 976.332
Total comprehensive income 127.164  - 127.164
Final balance current year
December 31, 2020 1.103.496  - 1.103.496
303 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020TECHNICAL TRAINING LATAM S.A.
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT – DIRECT METHOD
As at As at
December December
2020 2019
M$ M$
Net cash flows from operating activities (321.544) 422.825
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents, 
before F/X changes (321.544) 422.825
Effects of F/X variation on cash and cash equivalents  -  - 
 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (321.544) 422.825
CASH AND CASH EQUIV ALENTS AT THE END OF THE FISCAL YEAR 593.254 914.798JARLETUL S.A.
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL SITUATION
ASSETS As at As at
December December
2020 2019
MUS$ MUS$
Total current assets 32 124
Total non-current assets 2 26
Total assets 34 150
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY As at As at
December December
2020 2019
MUS$ MUS$
LIABILITIES
Total current liabilities 1.076 860
Total liabilities 1.076 860
EQUITY
Equity attributable to the owners of the parent company (1.042) (710)
Total Equity (1.042) (710)
Total Equity and liabilities 34 150
304 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020JARLETUL S.A.
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT BY FUNCTION
As at As at
December December
2020 2019
MUS$ MUS$
Income from ordinary activities  - 162
Cost of sales  - 1
Gross gain (loss)  - 163
Gain (loss) from operating activities (328) (603)
Gain (loss) before tax (327) (603)
Gain (loss) for the fiscal year (332) (603)
JARLETUL S.A.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
As at As at
December December
2020 2019
MUS$ MUS$
GAIN (LOSS) FOR THE FISCAL YEAR (332) (603)
Total comprehensive income (332) (603)JARLETUL S.A.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
Equity 
attributable to 
the owners  
of the  
parent company
MUS$Non-controlling 
stakes
MUS$Total  
equity
MUS$
Equity
January 1, 2020 (710)  - (710)
Total comprehensive income (332)  - (332)
Final balance current year
December 31, 2020 (1.042)  - (1.042)
305 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020JARLETUL S.A.
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT - DIRECT METHOD
As at As at
December December
2020 2019
MUS$ MUS$
Net cash flows from operating activities (92) 133
Net cash flows used in investment activities  - (26)
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents, 
before F/X changes (92) 107
 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (92) 107
CASH AND CASH EQUIV ALENTS AT THE END OF THE FISCAL YEAR 31 123PROFESSIONAL AIRLINE SERVICES INC
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL SITUATION
ASSETS As at As at
December December
2020 2019
MUS$ MUS$
Total current assets 45.512 22.404
Total assets 45.512 22.404
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY As at As at
December December
2020 2019
MUS$ MUS$
LIABILITIES
Total current liabilities 42.797 20.845
Total liabilities 42.797 20.845
EQUITY
Equity attributable to the owners of the parent company 2.715 1.559
Total Equity 2.715 1.559
Total Equity and liabilities 45.512 22.404
306 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020PROFESSIONAL AIRLINE SERVICES INC
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
As at As at
December December
2020 2019
MUS$ MUS$
GAIN (LOSS) FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 1.156 1.096
Total comprehensive income 1.156 1.096PROFESSIONAL AIRLINE SERVICES INC
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT BY FUNCTION
As at As at
December December
2020 2019
MUS$ MUS$
Income from ordinary activities  -  - 
Cost of sales (26.980) (27 .177)
Gross gain (loss) (26.980) (27 .177)
Gain (loss) from operating activities 1.321 1.198
Gain (loss) before tax 1.321 1.198
Income tax expense (165) (102)
Gain (loss) for the fiscal year 1.156 1.096PROFESSIONAL AIRLINE SERVICES INC
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
Equity 
attributable to 
the owners  
of the  
parent company
MUS$Non-controlling 
stakes
MUS$Total  
equity
MUS$
Equity
January 1, 2020 1.559  - 1.559
Total comprehensive income 1.156  - 1.156
Final balance current year
December 31, 2020 2.715  - 2.715
307 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020PROFESSIONAL AIRLINE SERVICES INC
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT - DIRECT METHOD
As at As at
December December
2020 2019
MUS$ MUS$
Net cash flows from operating activities (1.555) 4
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents, before F/X changes (1.555) 4
 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (1.555) 4
CASH AND CASH EQUIV ALENTS AT THE END OF THE FISCAL YEAR 90 1.645LATAM FINANCE LIMITED
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL SITUATION
ASSETS As at As at
December December
2020 2019
MUS$ MUS$
Total current assets 1.310.735 1.362.762
Total non-current assets  -  - 
Total assets 1.310.735 1.362.762
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY As at As at
December December
2020 2019
MUS$ MUS$
LIABILITIES
Total current liabilities 82.572 29.419
Total non-current liabilities 1.501.739 1.501.819
Total liabilities 1.584.311 1.531.238
EQUITY
Equity attributable to the owners of the parent company (273.576) (168.476)
Total Equity (273.576) (168.476)
Total Equity and liabilities 1.310.735 1.362.762
308 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020LATAM FINANCE LIMITED
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT BY FUNCTION
As at As at
December December
2020 2019
MUS$ MUS$
Income from ordinary activities 5 509
Cost of sales (105.103) (91.930)
Gross gain (loss) (105.098) (91.421)
Gain (loss) from operating activities (105.100) (90.736)
Gain (loss) before tax (105.100) (90.736)
Gain (loss) for the fiscal year (105.100) (90.736)LATAM FINANCE LIMITED
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
As at As at
December December
2020 2019
MUS$ MUS$
GAIN (LOSS) FOR THE FISCAL YEAR (105.100) (90.736)
Total comprehensive income (105.100) (90.736)
LATAM FINANCE LIMITED
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
Equity attributable to 
the owners  
of the  
parent company
MUS$Non-controlling 
stakes
MUS$Total  
equity
MUS$
Equity
January 1, 2020 (168.476)  - (168.476)
Total comprehensive income (105.100)  - (105.100)
Final balance current year
December 31, 2020 (273.576)  - (273.576)
309 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020LATAM FINANCE LIMITED
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT - DIRECT METHOD
As at As at
December December
2020 2019
MUS$ MUS$
Net cash flows from operating activities 996 (2.093)
Net cash flows used in investment activities 51.184 (786.262)
Net cash flows from (used in) financing activities (52.063) 775.612
 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 117 (12.743)
CASH AND CASH EQUIV ALENTS AT THE END OF THE FISCAL YEAR 117 1.083PEUCO FINANCE LIMITED
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL SITUATION
ASSETS As at As at
December December
2020 2019
MUS$ MUS$
Total current assets 1.307 .721 664.458
Total assets 1.307 .721 664.458
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY As at As at
December December
2020 2019
MUS$ MUS$
LIABILITIES
Total current liabilities 1.307 .721 664.458
Total liabilities 1.307 .721 664.458
Total Equity and liabilities 1.307 .721 664.458
310 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020PEUCO FINANCE LIMITED
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT - DIRECT METHOD
As at As at
December December
2020 2019
MUS$ MUS$
Net cash flows from operating activities (643.263) (104.392)
Net cash flows used in investment activities 643.263 104.392
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents, before F/X 
changes  -  - 
 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  -  - 
CASH AND CASH EQUIV ALENTS AT THE END OF THE FISCAL YEAR  -  - 
311 Affiliates and subsidiaries  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020312
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020Rationale
Comparative analysis and explanation of main trends:
Consolidated financial statement
At December 31, 2020, the Company’s assets totaled 
ThUS$15,650,090 which, compared to the value at Decem -
ber 31, 2019, represents a ThUS$5,437,716 decrease (25.8%).
The Company’s current assets decreased by ThUS$874,690 
(21.87%) compared to yearend 2019. The main decreases 
were seen in the following line items: Commercial debtors 
and other accounts receivable, current, worth ThUS$644,967 
(51.8%), linked to decreased sales during the period; 
Non-current assets or groups of assets for disposal, classi -
fied as held for sale or held for distribution to owners, worth 
ThUS$209,028 (43.1%), mainly resulting from the net ef -
fect of the movements to and from the line item Property, 
Plant, and Equipment during 2020, corresponding, respec -
tively, to: The ThUS$464,812 decrease due to the cancel -
lation of the purchase by Delta Air Lines Inc. of four Airbus 
A350 aircraft, and the ThUS$275,000 increase corresponding 
to the fair value of 11 B767 airplanes. These negative varia -tions are compensated by the net effect between Cash and 
cash equivalents and Other financial assets, current, worth 
ThUS$174,008.
The Company’s liquidity index shows a decrease from 0.58 
times by the end of 2019 to 0.42 times at December 2020, 
mainly due to a 21.8% decrease in Current assets. Moreover, 
the quick ratio increased from 0.15 times at yearend 2019 to 
0.23 times at the end of 2020. 
The Company’s Non-current assets decreased by 
ThUS$4,563,026 (26.7%) compared to 2019. The main de -
crease comes from the negative variation in Capital gains 
totaling ThUS$2,209,576, mainly due to the recognition of 
an impairment loss worth ThUS$1,728,975 resulting from 
the impairment tests made in the first quarter of 2020, 
by identifying said impairment resulting from the suspen -
sion of most of the passenger air transport operations, 
due to the protection measures for the population, relat -
ed to Covid 19, and to the loss from translation adjustment 
worth ThUS$480,601. Other items of the Non-current as -
set that show decreases: Property, plant, and equipment 
for ThUS$2,189,349 (16.9%), whose variation is explained, 
net, mainly due to the rejection of the fleet by the Chap -
ter 11 process, worth ThUS$1,090,668, the depreciation of 
the period totaling ThUS$1,137,195, a translation difference 
of ThUS$188,156, a decrease of ThUS$141,710, linked to 
the reincorporation of Non-current assets or groups of as -
sets for disposal classified as assets held for sale or held 
for distribution to owners, due to the cancellation by Delta 
Air Lines Inc. of the purchase of four Airbus A350 airplanes 
for ThUS$464,812, and the reclassification of Non-current assets or groups of assets for disposal classified as held for 
sale or held for distribution to owners of 11 B767 airplanes 
for ThUS$606,522; Intangible assets other than goodwill 
worth ThUS$401,682 (27 .7%), mainly originated by a con -
version adjustment of ThUS$271,700 and ThUS$169,800, 
corresponding to the amortization of the period, including 
US$103 million from the new IT programs that will no longer 
be used, as a result of the implementation of the new dig -
ital platform developed to offer simple, agile, and multi -
platform interactions to improve customers’ digital experi -
ence and the internal processes of the Company known as 
LATAM XP, among other movements in the period; and in -
crease in Assets from deferred taxes totaling ThUS$329,233 
(139.8%), mainly generated from the operating losses of 
LATAM Chile S.A.
At December 31, 2020, the Company’s liabilities totaled 
ThUS$18,092,475 which, compared to the value as at De -
cember 31, 2019, represents a ThUS$133,846 increase, 
equivalent to 0.7%.
The Company’s Current liabilities increased by 
ThUS$530,946 (7 .6%) compared to yearend 2019. The main 
increase is seen in Other financial liabilities, current, total -
ing ThUS$1,170,070 (62.1%), which are mainly explained 
by the net effect of the de las capital gains and interest 
payments made in the year, totaling ThUS$(273,591), the 
ThUS$472,273 increase in accrued interest, reclassifications 
from the non-current line item worth ThUS$995,966, and 
derivatives movement in the year, totaling ThUS$(45,000), 
which is mainly compensated by the decrease in Oth -
er non-financial liabilities, current, worth ThUS$746,430 313 Rationale  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020(26.3%), related to the decrease in sales due to the health 
contingency.
The indebtedness indicator of the Company’s Current lia -
bilities for the period is (3.08). The impact of current Lia -
bilities on total debt increased by 2.65 percentage points, 
from 38.76% at yearend 2019 to 41.41% at the end of the 
current period.
The Company’s non-current Liabilities decreased by 
ThUS$397,100 (3.6%), compared to the sum reached by De -
cember 31, 2019. The main negative variations are seen in 
the Other non-current financial liabilities line item totaling 
ThUS$726,617 (8.5%). This variation is mainly explained by 
the approval of the motion filed by the Company before the 
Bankruptcy Court to reject certain aircraft leasing contracts. 
The rejected contracts included 17 aircrafts financed under 
the EETC structure totaling US$844.1 million; two aircrafts 
financed with a financial lease for US$38.8 million, due to 
the net effect of the capital gains and payments made in 
the year totaling ThUS$1,132,879, reclassifications from the 
line item to current position, totaling ThUS$(995,796), and 
an appraisal effect and other movements in the period for 
ThUS$(38,027).
The other negative variations are seen in the Liabilities from 
deferred taxes line item, totaling ThUS$232,523 (37 .7%) also 
linked to the rejection of the fleet and Other non-current 
non-financial liabilities for ThUS$149,375 (17 .5%) explained 
mainly by the reclassification of balances to current posi -
tion. This is slightly compensated by the positive variation in 
Other provisions, non-current, for ThUS$301,956 (105.4%), 
explained by the net effect between the ThUS$452,078 in -
crease in provisions and the ThUS$47,238 reduction from payments made, conversion adjustments for ThUS$58,654, 
and a provision reversal of ThUS$25,563; and Accounts pay -
able to related companies, non-current, for ThUS$396,423 
due to capital gains.
The indebtedness indicator of the Company’s Non-current 
liabilities for the period is (4.35). The impact of non-current 
Liabilities on total debt decreased by 2.65 percentage points, 
from 61.24% at yearend 2019 to 58.59% at December 2020.
The total indebtedness indicator on the Company’s Equity at 
December 2020 is (7 .43).
At December 31, 2020, roughly 42% of the debt has a fixed 
rate or is linked to one of the financial hedging instruments 
arranged. The average rate on the debt is 5.44%.
The Equity attributable to the owners of the parent company 
decreased by ThUS$5,566,495 from ThUS$3,130,782 at De -
cember 31, 2019 to ThUS$2,435,713 by December 31, 2020. 
The decreases are seen in the results for the year, attributa -
ble to the owners of the parent company, translating into a 
loss of ThUS$4,545,887, mainly affected by the recognition 
of a Goodwill impairment and Expenses from restructuring 
activities, totaling ThUS$1,728975 and ThUS$990,009, re -
spectively; and the Other reserves totaling ThUS$1,020,608, 
mainly due to the negative effect from a ThUS$900,226 vari -
ation in exchange rate conversion reserves, mainly due to the 
variation in the Brazilian real.Consolidated income statement
At December 31, 2020, the controller reported a negative re -
sult of ThUS$4,545,887, translating into a negative variation 
of ThUS$4,736,317 compared to the ThUS$190,430 profit 
from the previous year. Net margin went from 1.8% in 2019 
to -104.9% during 2020.
Operating result for 2020 totaled a loss of ThUS$1,665,288 
which, compared to the ThUS$741,602 profit as at December 
31, 2019, shows a negative variation equivalent to 324.6%, 
whereas operating margin reached -38.45%,45.5 percentage 
points below the figures for 2019.
Operating revenues for the twelve months of 2020 decreased 
by 58.4% compared to 2019, settling at ThUS$4.334.669.This 
decrease is largely due to a 69.9% drop in Passenger reve -
nues; on the other hand, Cargo revenues and the Other rev -
enues item increased by 13.7% and 13.9%, respectively. The 
effect of the Brazilian real’s depreciation represents lower or -
dinary revenues worth around US$360 million.
In June 2020, LATAM Airlines Argentina S.A. ’s operations were 
indefinitely suspended, due to the conditions of the lo -
cal industry, worsened by the Covid-19 pandemic, whereby 
12 destinations are no longer operated. By the end of 2019, 
LATAM Airlines Argentina S.A. reported US$229 million in its 
individual Operating revenue results.
Passenger revenues totaled ThUS$2,713,774 which, com -
pared to the ThUS$9,005,629 of the twelve months of 2019, 
represents a 69.9% decrease. This variation is mainly due to 
the 62.7% drop in capacity measured in ASK, as well as an 
18.8% decrease in RASK, as a result of a 7 percentage-point 
decrease in load factor, together with a 12% drop in yields 314 Rationale  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020compared to the previous year. The drop in load factor is 
explained by the implementation of quarantines, travel re -
strictions, and lower demand as a result of the Covid-19 
outbreak.
At December 31, 2020, Cargo revenues totaled 
ThUS$1,209,893, which translates into a 13.7% increase 
from 2019, despite the 12.7% drop in traffic measured in 
RTK and a 25.9% decline in capacity measured in ATK. Yields 
increased 30.2%, mainly driven by the change in the com -
petitive scene, due to the Covid-19 crisis. Moreover, passen -
ger plane cabins were refurbished for cargo transportation, 
and the frequencies and destinations of cargo flights were 
increased.
The Other income line item shows an increase of 
ThUS$50,138, mainly due to ThUS$62,000 received as com -
pensation from Delta Air Lines Inc. for the cancellation of 
four A350 aircrafts and ThUS$9,240 from the anticipated 
return of planes leased to Qatar Airways, both in the second 
half of 2020.
At December 31, 2020, Operating costs totaled 
ThUS$5,999,957 which, compared to 2019, translate into 
ThUS$3,689,368 lower costs, equivalent to a 38.1% drop, 
whereas unit cost per ASK increased by 65.8%. Furthermore, 
the effect of the Brazilian Real’s depreciation on this line 
item translates into lower costs by roughly US$440 million. 
Item variations are explained as follows:
a) Compensations and benefits decreased by ThUS$832,702 
due to the voluntary salary reduction, agreed upon in March, 
for over 90% of the employees. This resulted in around 
US$130 million in savings, together with the drop in the av -erage provision and the depreciation of local currencies, par -
ticularly the Brazilian real and the Chilean peso.
b) Fuel decreased by 64.3% equivalent to ThUS$1,883,665.
This drop is mainly the result of a 22.8% reduction in unhe -
dged prices, and a 53.9% decrease in consumption meas -
ured in gallons. During 2020, the company reported a 
loss of ThUS$14,316 from fuel hedges, compared to the 
ThUS$23,110 loss from the twelve months of 2019.
c) Commissions report a ThUS$129,974 decrease as a result 
of the drop in passenger traffic.
d) Depreciation and Amortization declined by ThUS$80,590 
at December 31, 2020. This variation is mainly explained by 
the drop in maintenance depreciation, as a result of the de -
crease in flight hours of the passenger fleet during the last 
nine months of 2020. 
e) Other Leases and Landing Fees decreased by 
ThUS$555,854, mainly in airport and handling service fees, 
impacted by the decreased operation.
f) Passenger Services decreased by ThUS$163,642, translat -
ing into a 62.6% variation, mainly explained by a 61,9% re -
duction in the number of passengers. 
g) Maintenance costs increased by ThUS$27,771, equiva -
lent to a 6.2% rise. Despite the decrease in operation, during 
the last months of 2020, necessary costs were incurred for 
the preservation of the grounded aircraft. In addition, in the 
fourth quarter, the values of commitments from scheduled 
returns of leased aircrafts were updated.h) Other Operating Costs show a decrease of ThUS$70,712, 
mainly due to lower crew costs and reservations systems as 
a result of the decreased operations and demand.
Financial revenues totaled ThUS$50,397 which, compared to 
the ThUS$26,283 from 2019, translates into higher revenues 
by ThUS$24,114, mainly due to an increase in interest-earn -
ing assets as part of the portfolio that the company uses to 
manage its cash.
Financial cost decreased by 0.5%, totaling ThUS$586,979 by 
December 31, 2020. The variation is a result of lower inter -
est rates and a decrease in financial debt compared to the 
same period of 2019, compensated by the interest rec -
ognized during the fourth quarter 2020, linked to the DIP 
financing.
The Other income/expenses as at December 31, 2020 show 
a negative result of US$2,903,853. The contingency gener -
ated by the Covid-19 outbreak affected the company’s im -
pairment tests, hampering the total goodwill, corresponding 
to a US$1.72 billion loss. Moreover, during the second half 
of 2020 the costs related to the reorganization were recog -
nized, involving the impact on results from the rejected fleet 
contracts worth US$269 million, US$291 million in com -
pensation related to the company’s restructure, and US$332 
million in adjusted value net of the fleet available for sale.
The main line items in the Consolidated Financial Statement 
of TAM S.A. and Affiliates, which caused a ThUS$480 curren -
cy exchange loss at December 31, 2020, are as follows: Oth -
er financial liabilities; ThUS$82,634 loss from USD-denom -
inated loans and financial leasing for fleet acquisitions; net 
accounts receivable and payable to related companies, to -315 Rationale  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020taling a profit of THUS$105,037, and net accounts receivable 
and payable to third parties, totaling a loss of ThUS$18,049. 
The other net assets and liabilities line items generated a 
loss of ThUS$4,833.
Analysis and explanation of consolidated net 
cash flow generated by operation, investment, 
and financing activities
The Company’s cash flow, after the first quarter of 2020, 
has been affected mainly by the decreased operations of 
passenger transportation due to the closing of borders and 
quarantine periods designed to control the Covid-19 pan -
demic in the countries where the company operates, and due 
to the filing for voluntary reorganization under Chapter 11 of 
the US Bankruptcy Code, which has made it possible to pro -
tect the Company’s liquidity.
Cash Flow from Operating Activities up to December 31, 
2020 shows a negative variation of ThUS$3,321,364 com -
pared to the previous year, mainly because of the nega -
tive variation nfrom Collections from the sale of goods and 
services rendered totaling ThUS$6,458,924, Other cash 
receipts from operation activities totaling ThUS$75,783; 
taxes on gains refunded (paid) ThUS$20,381, and Other 
cash income and expenses totaling ThUS$227,693.This is 
compensated by positive variations on Supplier payments 
for the supply of goods and Payments to and on behalf of 
employees, whose positive variations arise from lower pay -
ments made totaling ThUS$2,846,536 and ThUS$417,796, 
respectively, as well as Other payments for operating activ -
ities totaling ThUS$197,085.The negative variation of ThUS$227,693 in Other cash in -
come and expenses, from the Operating Activities Flow, 
is mainly the result of the net effect between the low -
er compensation received from Delta Air Lines Inc. 
worth ThUS$288,000 and the collateral increase worth 
ThUS$38,805, compensated by the positive variation in le -
gal deposits for ThUS$61,503 linked to recoveries received 
in Brazil during the second and third quarters of 2020 (legal 
deposit from TAM Linheas Aéreas S.A for ThUS$38,476); 
lower payments of interest on financial transactions and 
others for ThUS$24,907 and the positive variation from 
transactions with fuel derivatives for ThUS$12,702.
The flow from Investment Activities shows a positive vari -
ation of ThUS$1,452,815 over the previous year. The main 
positive variations are related to the following concepts: 
The net effect between Other collections from the sale and 
Other payments to acquire equity or debt instruments from 
other entities for ThUS$391,380, lower Property, plant, 
and equipment purchases, and purchases of intangible as -
sets worth ThUS$952,357, and ThUS$64,740, respectively; 
greater additions of Sums from the sale of property, plant, 
and equipment for ThUS$25,244 and Interest received for 
ThUS$19,037 .
The Flow from financing Activities shows a positive variation 
of ThUS$2,464,350 compared to the previous year, which is 
mainly explained by the positive variations of the following 
concepts: Payments from changes in the stakes in subsidi -
aries that do not lead to a loss of control for ThUS$290,880; 
Sums from loans for ThUS$110,752; Loans from relat -
ed companies ThUS$373,125 corresponding to a part of 
Tranche C of the DIP financing, provided by the LATAM shareholders group comprised by the Cueto Group, the Eblen 
Group, and Qatar Airways, and certain companies related to 
the latter; Loan payments for ThUS$1,066,743; Interest paid 
for ThUS$340,459; Payment of liabilities from leases for 
ThUS$276,930; and Dividends paid for ThUS$54,545 as the 
minimum dividends corresponding to the shareholders of 
LATAM Airlines S.A on the profits of 2019 are still outstand -
ing, in compliance with the restrictions imposed by Chapter 
11 of the US Bankruptcy code.. The positive variations pre -
sented are compensate by the negative variation in Other 
cash income and expenses for ThUS$49,084.
The positive variations in the Flow of Financing Activities in 
the line items of Loan payments, Interest paid, and Pay -
ment of liabilities from leasing are mainly originated by the 
suspension of payments on the debts contracted prior to 
the date of the petition for voluntary reorganization and ac -
ceptance of the rejection of leasing or financing contracts 
of a total of 29 airplanes throughout 2020 by the Bank -
ruptcy Court.
The flows from loans described above include the following 
events: 
a) On February 11, 2019, LATAM Finance Limited, a lim -
ited liability company established in the Caiman Islands 
and exclusively owned by LATAM Airlines Group S.A., is -
sued on the international market, under Standard 144-A 
and Regulation S of the US Securities Act, unsecured long-
term bonds called LATAM 2026 for a notional amount of 
US$600,000,000 at an annual interest rate of 7 .00%. The 
bonds were placed at an issuance price of 99.309% of their 
par value. The bonds have biannual interest payments a nd 316 Rationale  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020full capital amortization at maturity, the maturity date being 
March 1, 2026. As was announced to the market, the goal of 
the issuance and placement was for general corporate financ -
ing purposes.
b) On June 6, 2019, LATAM Airlines Group S.A. issued on the 
local market (Santiago Stock Exchange) unsecured long-
term bonds called Series E (BLATM-E), corresponding to the 
first series of bonds charged to the facility registered in the 
Registry of the Financial Market Commission (“CMF” , for its 
Spanish acronym), under N° 921 dated November 26, 2018, 
for a total of UF9,000,000.
The total sum issued was UF5,000,000 at an annual coupon 
rate of 3.60% with biannual interest payments and maturing 
on April 15, 2029. The placement rate was 2.73%, equivalent 
to ThUS$215,093.
Of the funds raised through the placement, 50% were des -
tined to refinancing liabilities, 30% to financing investments, 
and 20% for general corporate purposes.
c) On July 11, 2019, LATAM Finance Limited, a limited li -
ability company established in the Caiman Islands and 
exclusively owned by LATAM Airlines Group S.A., issued a 
re-opening of the LATAM 2026 bond, issued on February 11, 
2019, for US$200,000.000.This reopening had a placement 
rate of 5.979%.
Simultaneously, on July 11, 2019, LATAM Airlines Group S.A. 
announced the repurchase of up to US$300 million of the 
unsecured bond LATAM 2020, issued on June 9, 2015 for 
US$500 million at a coupon rate of 7 .25% and maturing in 
June 2020. The buyback price of the offer was 103.8 cents per dollar of the face value of the bonds offered up to July 
24, 2019; after that date and up to August 7, 2019, the 
buyback price offered decreased to 100.8 cents per dollar. 
At maturity of the offer, a total of US$238,412,000 of the 
bonds were repurchased, US$238,162,000 of which were 
received on or prior to July 24, 2019, and US$250,000 af -
ter that date. The income from the reopening of the LATAM 
2026 bond was used to pay for part of the public tender of 
the LATAM 2020 bond. The remainder of the public tender 
was paid in cash.
On December 17, 2019, LATAM Airlines Group S.A. complet -
ed the repurchase of the balance (US$262 million) of the 
LATAM 2020 unsecured bond which, added to the buy -
back from July 11, 2019, totaled the balance of the bond. 
The buyback was performed through the so-called “Make-
Whole” call mechanism, which is a right that the issuer of 
the bond has to buy back the outstanding debt balance, 
based on a price calculated using the US Treasury bonds 
with a similar maturity to the callable bond and adding a 
spread. The buyback price was 102.45 cents per dollar of 
the nominal sum of the bonds.
d) March 16, 2020 was the maturity date of the obligations 
contained in the contract called “Indenture” signed by Gua -
nay Finance Limited (see Note 1 of the Consolidated Finan -
cial Statement), LATAM Airlines Group S.A., and Citibank, 
N.A. on November 7, 2013. The bonds secured with the fu -
ture flows from credit card sales in the US and Canada were 
issued in 2013 totaling US$450 million.
e) During March and April, LATAM Airlines Group S.A. with -
drew the whole sum (US$600 million) from the Revolving 
Credit Facility (RCF). This financing matures on March 29, 2022. The facility is backed by collateral comprising air -
craft, engines, and spare parts. The first withdrawal was 
done on March 27, 2020, totaling US$504.7 million, the 
second was on April 7, 2020, for US$72 million, and the 
third was on April 14, 2020, for US$11.2 million; the fourth 
and last was on April 21, 2020, totaling US$12.1 million."
f) On June 24, 2020, the US District Court for the South -
ern District of New York approved the motion filed by the 
Company to reject certain aircraft leasing contracts. The 
rejected contracts included 17 aircrafts financed under the 
EETC structure, totaling US$844.1 million and an aircraft 
financed through a financial lease totaling US$4.5 million.
g) On October 20, 2020, the US District Court of the 
Southern District of New York approved the motion filed 
by the Company to reject the aircraft leasing contract fi -
nanced under a financial lease for US$34.3 million.
In addition to the aircraft contracts presented in items 
(f) and (g), 10 aircrafts are recognized as Liabilities from 
leasing.
h) On October 10, 2020, LATAM Airlines Group S.A. with -
drew part (US$1.15 billion) of the credit facility from the 
“DIP” financing. This financing matures on April 10, 2022. 
The facility is backed by collateral comprising routes, slots, 
engines, and spare parts. With this sole withdrawal, the 
company still has available US$1.30 billion for withdraw -
al. This facility is committed for a total of US$2.45 billion, 
US$750 million of which are committed by related parties.
Last, the Company’s net cash flow as at December 31, 
2020, prior to the effects of exchange rate differences, 317 Rationale  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020shows a negative variation of ThUS$595,801, compared to 
the same period of a year earlier.
 
4. Financial risk analysis
The goal of the Company’s global risk management program 
is to minimize the adverse effects of the financial risks that 
affect the company.
(a) Market risk
Given the nature of its business, the Company is exposed 
to market factors, such as: (i) fuel price risk, (ii) interest rate 
risk, and (iii) local exchange rate risk.
(i) Fuel price risk
To carry out its operations, the Company purchases fuel known as 
USGC 54 grade Jet Fuel, which is subject to variations in interna -
tional fuel prices.
To hedge against fuel risk exposure, the Company trades in 
derivatives instruments (Swaps and Options) whose underly -
ing assets may be different from Jet Fuel, whereby it is pos -
sible to hedge in West Texas Intermediate crude oil (“WTI”), 
Brent crude oil (“BRENT”), and distilled Heating Oil (“HO”), 
which are closely related to Jet Fuel and have greater liquidity.
At December 31, 2020, the Company recognized ThUS$14,316 
(negative) in losses on fuel hedges, net of premiums, on the 
period’s cost of sales. Part of the spreads resulting between 
the lower and higher market value of these contracts is rec -
ognized as a hedge reserves component in the Company’s net 
equity. At December 31, 2020, the market value of existing 
contracts stood at ThUS$1,296.As of March 31, the Company has decided that the transac -
tions expected to be highly probable, which comprised the 
hedged entry, will not be happening at the formerly estab -
lished magnitude, so they have ceased to recognize these 
contracts under hedging accounting, recognizing at Decem -
ber 31 a loss of ThUS$50,766 in the Other gains (losses) in 
the income statement, as an effect of the reclassification of 
other reserves from the integrated income statement and a 
loss of ThUS$$30,847 corresponding to the premiums linked 
to these contracts. As of the end of November 2020, fuel 
derivatives taken by the Company are classified as hedging 
accounting.
(ii) Exchange rate risk
The functional currency, also used in presenting the Parent 
Company’s Financial Statements, is the US dollar; therefore, 
Transactional and Conversion exchange rate risks are main -
ly a result of the operating activities of the business, as well 
as the Company’s strategic and accounting activities, which 
are presented in monetary units other than the functional 
currency.
LATAM’s Affiliates are also exposed to exchange rate risk, 
whose impact affects the Company's Consolidated Result.
The greatest exposure to exchange rate risk for LATAM 
comes from the concentration of businesses in Brazil, as 
they are mainly denominated in Brazilian Reals (BRL), and it 
is managed actively by the Company.
The Company minimizes exchange risk exposure by con -
tracting derivative instruments or through natural hedges or 
the execution of internal transactions.As at December 31, 2020, the Company held no current FX 
derivatives.
During the period ended on December 31, 2020, the Compa -
ny recognized a gain of THUS$3,248 from F/X hedges net of 
premiums. Part of the spreads resulting between the lower 
and higher market value of these contracts is recognized as a 
hedge reserves component in the Company’s net equity. 
The Company has signed cross-currency swaps (CCS) to dol -
larize the cash flows of existing obligations, both contracted 
in Chile’s inflation-linked units (Unidades de Fomento, UF), 
with a fixed interest rate. Through this financial instrument, 
it is possible to pay an interest rate in dollars, both fixed and 
floating (LIBOR plus a fixed spread). At December 31, 2020, 
the Company held no current positions in CCS.
(iii) Interest rate risk
The Company is exposed to variations in interest rates on 
the markets, affecting the future cash flows of its current 
and future financial assets and liabilities.
The Company is mainly exposed to the London Inter Bank 
Offer Rate (“LIBOR”) and other less relevant interest rates, 
such as Brazilian Interbank Deposit Certificates (“CDI”).
In order to reduce the risk from an eventual hike in interest 
rates, the Company has entered interest rate swap con -
tracts. With regard to said contracts, the Company pays and 
receives, or only receives, as may be the case, the spread 
between the agreed fixed rate and the floating rate calcu -
lated on the capital outstanding in each contract. For these 
contracts, the Company recognized in the results of this 
period a ThUS$174 loss. Losses and gains on interest rate 1 According to report published in January 2021: https://www.imf.
org/en/Publications/WEO/ Issues/2021/01/26/2021-world-econo -
mic-outlook-update .
318 Rationale  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020swaps are recognized as a component of the financial ex -
pense over the amortization of the hedged loan. As at De -
cember 31, 2020, the Company held no current interest rate 
swap contracts.
As at December 31, 2020, roughly 42% of the debt has a 
fixed rate. Considering these hedges, the average rate on 
debt is 5.44%.
(b) Concentration of credit risk
A high percentage of the Company’s accounts receivables 
comes from passengers, cargo services for individuals, and 
various trade companies that are spread out both economi -
cally and geographically; thus, they are generally short term. 
Thereby, the Company is not exposed to a significant concen -
tration of credit risk.
5. Economic environment
In order to analyze the economic environment in which the 
Company exists, below we present a brief explanation of the 
situation and evolution of the main economies that affect it 
nationally, regionally, and worldwide.
Even though the economy is starting to leave behind the 
lower levels of activity that were seen in the first months 
of 2020, during the year, the Covid-19 pandemic has had a 
huge impact on the whole world. To protect people’s lives 
and enable the healthcare systems to deal with the situa -
tion, countries have resorted to isolation, confinement, and 
generalized shutdowns to contain the spread of the virus. 
This caused the growth of the global economy to slowdown 
throughout 2020.Although the world growth forecast is subject to great un -
certainty, for 2020. the International Monetary Fund (IMF)1 
expects the global economy to contract 3.5%, 0,9 percent -
age points higher than the previous estimate, given an im -
provement that took place in the second half of the year, 
before it was expected. The IMF is expecting global growth 
in 2021 to reach 5.5%, 0.3 percentage points higher than 
previously estimated, due to the same acceleration seen in 
late 2020, and positive expectations related to the vaccina -
tion process worldwide, together with additional fiscal relief 
announced by various governments.
For the US, the IMF estimated a 3.4% contraction for 2020 
and 5.1% growth for 2021 (2.0 percentage points more 
growth than previously expected for 2021). Likewise, the 
IMF’s transversal estimates for the European Union’s coun -
tries have dropped, with a 7 .2% contraction in 2020 and 4.2% 
growth in 2021 (1.0 percentage points less growth than for -
merly expected for 2021).
On the other hand, it estimated a 7 .4% contraction for the Lat -
in American economy in 2020, and 4.1% growth for 2021, 0.5 
percentage points more growth compared to the previous IMF 
estimates for 2021. Brazil’s economy is expected to grow 3.6% 
in 2021, and as for Chile, the Central Bank expects the econo -
my to expand between 5.5% and 6.5% in 2021.
a) Below, we are presenting the main financial indicators in 
the Consolidated Financial Statement:LIQUIDITY INDICATORS 12-31-2020 12-31-2019
Current liquidity (times)
(Current assets in operation/
Current liabilities)0.42 0.58
Quick ratio (times)
(Funds available/ current liabilities)0.23 0.15
INDEBTEDNESS INDICATORS
Debt ratio (times)
(Current liabilities+non-current liabilities/
Net equity)(7 .43) 5.74
Current debt/ Total debt (%) 41.41 38.76
Non-current debt/ Total debt (%) 58.59 61.24
Hedging of financial expenses
(EBIT / financial expenses)0.00 1.25
ACTIVITY INDICATORS
Total Assets 15,650,090 21,087,806
Investments 1,465,204 5,408,511
Disposal of property 1,537,386 4,111,655319 Rationale  
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020Profitability indicators
Profitability indicators are calculated on equity and income 
attributable to Majority Shareholders.
12-31-2020 12-31-2019
Return on Equity1
(Net income / average net equity)- 0.06
Return on assets
(Net income/ average assets)(0.29) 0.01
Yield of operating assets
(Net income/ operating assets2
Average)(0.31) 0.01
1 As at December 31, 2020, LATAM Airlines Group S.A. and its Affiliates 
report negative Equity.
2 Total assets less deferred taxes, personnel current accounts, perma -
nent and temporary investments, and goodwill.
12-31-2020 12-31-2019
Dividend returns 0.00 0.00
(Dividends paid/ market price) 0.00 0.00
b) Below, we are presenting the main financial indicators in 
the Consolidated Financial Statement:FOR THE YEARS ENDED ON DECEMBER 31,2020
THUS$2019
THUS$
Operating income 4,334,669 10,430,927
Passengers 2,713,774 9,005,629
Cargo 1,209,893 1,064,434
Others 411,002 360,864
Operating Costs (5,999,957) (9,689,325)
Compensation (962,060) (1,794,762)
Fuel (1,045,343) (2,929,008)
Fees (91,910) (221,884)
Depreciation and Amortization (1,389,386) (1,469,976)
Other Leasing and Landing Fees (720,005) (1,275,859)
Passenger Services (97,688) (261,330)
Maintenance (472,382) (444,611)
Other Operating Costs (1,221,183) (1,291,895)
Operating result (1,665,288) 741,602
Operating Margin -38.4% 7. 1%
Financial Revenues 50,397 26,283
Financial costs (586,979) (589,934)
Other Revenues / Costs (2,903,853) (36,035)
Earnings before interest and taxes (5,105,723) 141,916
Taxes 550,188 53,697
Profit/loss before minority interest (4,555,535) 195,613
Attributable to:
Gain/(Loss) attributable to the parent company’s owners (4,545,887) 190,430
Gain/(Loss) attributable to non-controlling interests (9,648) 5,183
Gain/(Loss) for the period (4,545,887) 190,430
Net Margin -104.9% 1.8%
Effective Tax Rate 10.8% 37 .8%
Total shares 606,407,693 606,407,693
Gain/(Loss) per share (US$) (7 .50) 0.31
EBITDA (3,170,107) 2,170,360Other income/expenses considers the line items Other gains 
(losses), Exchange differences, and Results from readjust -
ment units presented in the consolidated financial statement 
by function.En nuestra calidad de directores, gerente general y vicepresi-
dente de Finanzas de LA T AM Airlines Group, declaramos bajo juramento nuestra responsabilidad respecto de la veracidad de toda la información contenida en la Memoria Integrada LA T AM 2020.
Ignacio Cueto Plaza
Presidente
Enrique Cueto Plaza
Vicepresidente
Enrique Ostalé Cambiaso
Director
Nicolás Eblen Hirmas
DirectorHenri Philippe ReichstulDirector
Patrick Horn García
Director
Alexander D. Wilcox
Director
Eduardo Novoa Castellón
DirectorSonia J. S. VillalobosDirectora
Roberto Alvo Milosawlewitsch
Gerente General
Ramiro Alfonsín Balza
Vicepresidente de Finanzas
323Presentación      Destacados      Carta del CEO      Perfil      Gobierno Corporativo      Nuestro Negocio      Sostenibilidad
Seguridad      Empleados      Clientes      Proveedores      Metodología      Anexos      Informes Financieros      CréditosMemoria integrada 2020Declaración 
juradaDocuSign Envelope ID: 201EF249-D50E-49E5-8D2B-42AFD074DA0C
As directors, chief executive officer (CEO), and chief fi -
nancial officer (CFO) of LATAM Airlines Group, we ack -
nowledge our responsibility regarding the veracity of the 
information contained in the LATAM Integrated Report 
2020.Ignacio Cueto Plaza
President
Enrique Cueto Plaza
Vice-president
Enrique Ostalé Cambiaso
Director
Nicolás Eblen Hirmas
DirectorHenri Philippe Reichstul
Director
Patrick Horn García
Director
Alexander D. Wilcox
Director
Eduardo Novoa Castellón
DirectorSonia J. S. Villalobos
Director
Roberto Alvo Milosawlewitsch
Chief Executive Officer
Ramiro Alfonsín Balza
Chief Financial Officer
320
Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       CreditsIntegrated Report 2020Sworn 
statementGuabiroba Leasing  Limited
100%Pilar I  Leasing Limited 
100% Piquero Leasing Limited
100%  Yeco Leasing Limited 
100%Platero Leasing LLC
100%
Jacana Leasing Limited
100%Pilar II  Leasing Limited
100% Picaflor Leasing Limited
100% Gallo Finance Limited
100% 0.01%99.83%
99.00%
1%99.8361% 100% 100%
99.99831%
63.09013%
49.47057%
49.47057%1.00%99.00%
54.79076%
55.00%45.00%
100%
0.15802%
100%
4.9966%95.00%
99.9837%5.00%36.90987%
95.00%
MINORITYLATAM AIRLINES GROUP S.A. [CHILE] - [LACL]
1.00% 1.00% 0.00409%99.00% 99.89395% 99.00%
0.10196%
0.1%99.9%
0.01%99.99%
0.17%0.10%
1.00%1.00%0.00012%99.98%
0.02%87 .12567%
99.97143%
81.31%0.19%
9.54%23.62%
76.19%
0.16%100% 0.02857%
0.20%99.0% 99.8%
99.13%
99.80%0.87%
0.20%99.00%
100%
100%100%99.89%
96.22078%
100%0.1639%
0.00169%
0.00344%0.79880%0.10204%45.20924%
0.01630%1.53% 1.53%
50.00%1.53%
0.11%
50.00%
3.77922% 
INVERSORA 
CORDILLERA S.A.
[ARGENTINA] - 
[W7AR]AEROVÍAS DE 
INTEGRACIÓN 
REGIONAL S.A. 
(AIRES S.A.)
[COLOMBIA] - 
[4CCO]LASER 
CARGO S.R.L. 
[ARGENTINA] - 
[D6AR]
LAN 
ARGENTINA 
S.A. 
[ARGENTINA] - 
[4MAR]MAINTENANCE 
SERVICE 
EXPERTS, LLC
[USA] - [F1US] FAST AIR 
ALMACENES 
DE CARGA S.A. 
[CHILE] - [D2CL]HOLDCO 
COLOMBIA I SPA  
[CHILE] - [E4CL]CONSUL TORÍA 
ADMINISTRATIV A 
PROFESIONAL S.A.  
DE C.V. [MEXICO] 
[CAMX]TRANSPORTE 
AÉREO S.A.
[CHILE] - 
[LUCL]ATLANTIC 
A VIATION 
INVESTMENTS 
LIMITED LLC 
[DELA W ARE] - 
[X5US]
HOLDCO I S.A.
[CHILE] - [E3CL]
CORSAIR 
PARTICIPACOES 
S.A. [BRASIL] - 
[N6BR]100%
0.01%99.99%
TAM LINHAS 
AEREAS S.A.
[BRASIL] - [JJBR]TP FRANCHISING 
L TDA. [BRASIL] - 
[N3BR]LATAM-AIRLINES 
ECUADOR S.A. 
[ECUADOR] - 
[XLEC] TAM S.A.
[BRASIL] - [N2BR]
LATAM TRA VEL 
S.A. [ARGENTINA] 
- [Z6AR]PEUCO  
FINANCE L TD.LATAM FINANCE L TD. 
[CAYMAN] - [TFKY]
AMERICONSUL T   
SA DE CV [MÉXICO] 
- [R3MX]
AMERICONSUL T 
DE GUATEMALA 
SA [GUATEMALA] - 
[Q3GT]
AMERICONSUL T 
 DE COSTA RICA  SA 
[COSTA RICA] - [P3CR]MAS  
INVESTMENT  
LIMITED
[HOLANDA] -  
[X3BS]PRIME AIRPOT 
SERVICES INC
[FLORIDA-USA] - 
[D5US]
LAN CARGO REPAIR 
STATION
[FLORIDA-USA] - 
[D9US]LAN CARGO 
INVERSIONES S.A.
[CHILE] - [LA01]
CONSORCIO FAST 
AIR LASER CARGO 
UTE  [ARGENTINA] 
- [D7A R]LAN CARGO  
OVERSEAS LIMITED 
[HOLANDA] - [X0BS]JARLETUL S.A.
[URUGUAY] - [W9UY]
LÍNEA AÉREA 
CARGUERA DE 
COLOMBIA 
[C1CO]INVERSIONES LAN 
S.A.
[CHILE] - [W0CL]LATAM TRA VEL CHILE 
II S.A.
[CHILE] -  [B2CL]
LATAM TOUR DE 
MÉXICO S.A. DE C.V.
[MÉXICO] - [L TMX]TECHNICAL TRAINING 
LATAM S.A.
[CHILE] - [A3CL]LAN PAX GROUP S.A. 
[CHILE] - [W1CL]
PROFESSIONAL 
AIRLINE 
MAINTENANCE 
SERVICES, LLC
[USA] - [F2US]
HOLDCO 
COLOMBIA 
II SPA
[CHILE] - [E5CL]LATAM AIRLINES 
PERÚ S.A.
[PERÚ] - [LPPE]LATAMTRA VEL 
S.R.L. [BOLIVIA] - 
[L TBO]
INVERSIONES 
AÉREAS S.A.
[PERÚ] - [W6PE]LAN CARGO 
S.A. [CHILE] - 
[UCCL]
HOLDCO
ECUADOR S.A.
[CHILE] - [E2CL]
CONNECTA  
CORPORATION  [USA]  
- [CCUS]100%
ABSA - 
AEROLINHAS 
BRASILEIRAS S.A.
[BRASIL] - [M3BR]100%
TRANSPORTES 
AÉREOS DEL 
MERCOSUR S.A.
[PARAGUAY] - 
[PZPY]94.98%
5.02%FIDELIDADE 
VIAGENS E 
TURISMO S.A.
[BRASIL] - 
[N1BR]MUL TIPLUS 
CORREDORA DE 
SEGUROS L TDA.
[BRASIL] - [N7BR]
PRISMAH 
FIDELIDADE 
LT DA .
[BRASIL] - 
[N8BR]100%
99.99%
99,99%
0.01%CORPORATE STRUCTURE
33.41%
66.43000%12.87421%100%
100% 100%
CARGO 
HANDLING 
AIRPORT 
SERVICES, LLC 
[USA] - [F6US]PROFESSIONAL 
AIRLINE CARGO 
SERVICES, LLC 
[USA] - [F7US]PROFESSIONAL AIRLINE  
SERVICES INC  
[FLORIDA-USA] - [PAUS]
321
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information      CreditsCREDITS
Coordination
LATAM – Investor Relations
LATAM – Sustainability
LATAM – External Communications
Text and design
Conecta Conteúdo e Sustentabilidade
Conecta Comunicação e Sustentabilidade
Text: Judith Mota and Talita Fusco
GRI consulting: Vinícius Cataldi
Graphic project and illustration: Naná de Freitas and Luciana Mafra
Layout: Flavia Ocaranza, Gisele Fujiura, Gustavo Inafuku, and Naná de Freitas
English version
Minx Translation – Nuriyah Costa-Laurent
Photography
LATAM archive
322
Integrated Report 2020Presentation      Highlights      Letter from the CEO      Profile      Corporate governance      Our business      Sustainability      
Security      Employees      Customers      Suppliers      Methodology      Appendices      Financial information       Credits