2013  
SUSTAINABILITY REPORTFOREWORD
>  M essage from the  
Chairman of the Board of Directors 
> M essage from the CEO of the LATAM Airlines Group 
> The r eport
THE COMPANY
> P rofile
. The c ompanies
> Corpor ate governance
> Ethics , Integrity, and Risk Management
OUR STRATEGY
> R esults, Investments, and Perspectives
> S ustainability Management
. P riority TopicsVALUE CHAIN
> C ustomers
. Quality in servic e
> Our P eople
. Ed ucation and training
. H ealth and safety
> S ociety
.  Ec onomic impacts, connectivity,  
and sustainable tourism
> G overnments and Institutions
> S uppliers
> S hareholders and InvestorsENVIRONMENT
> Our A pproach
> Carbon Emissions
> Ec o-Efficiency and Fuels
> W aste and Wastewater
> N oise and Air Quality
GRI CONTENTS
> T able of contents
GLOSSARY
LETTER OF ASSURANCE
CREDITS
CORPORATE INFORMATION03
03
05
07
08
09
121317
19
20
272830313438
404446
52
55
58
61636469
72
75
77
79
8083
84
8687
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS2
Message from the 
Chairman of the 
Board of DirectorsWith the merger process that created the LATAM Airlines Group, 
our operations, which are distributed across seven markets in 
Latin America, had to face a major challenge: the consolidation 
of the management practices and strategies in place in LAN 
and TAM airlines into a common organizational culture. We are, 
therefore, proud to disclose for the first time our integrated social 
and environmental performance to capital providers, customers, 
and other audiences through this Sustainability Report.
Resulting from the consolidation of our corporate 
management, this first report aims to provide 
accountability to society concerning our performance in 
the social and environmental topics associated with the 
business. The report's preparation process is a healthy 
example of the challenge that lies in integrating and 
managing businesses that are structured in various geographic locations, while preserving their best practices 
to benefit the company.
Connectivity, diversity, and efficiency are currently the 
key pillars of our business model. Taking them into 
consideration, I believe that important advances were 
made in 2013 for LAN and TAM, with achievements that range from economic and financial balance to increased 
efficiency in air and ground operations, including the 
modernization of our fleet of aircraft, the rational use of natural resources, and the best practices with customers, 
suppliers, employees, authorities, and business partners, 
who will leverage our results and reputation.
In terms of business, throughout the year we maintained 
our operating margins at approximately 4.9%, an increase over 2012, and carried 67 million passengers and 1.2 million 
tons of cargo. These results can be credited to balanced 
investments in the passenger business, whether abroad or 
domestically, in Brazil and in Spanish speaking countries, and in the cargo business. Another key project was the 
resizing of our route offerings, which aimed to maximize 
flight occupancy and to integrate existing networks. I 
give special emphasis to the work conducted by TAM in 
the Brazilian market, where we reduced our offering of 
domestic flights by 10%, and to the ongoing investments 
in the renewal of the fleet, with over 160 purchase orders 
for new aircraft, to make our operation more modern, eco-
efficient, and safe.
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS3
FOREWORDIn terms of management, we continued to integrate 
LAN's and TAM's internal processes, policies, and norms, 
focusing on environmental aspects and on relationships 
with customers, employees, and suppliers. We prepared a 
Code of Conduct for LATAM Airlines Group, which unifies 
our values and guidelines on ethics and integrity and consolidates our corporate risks, considering the aspects 
and the impacts of each market and business segments. 
In terms of the supply chain, we highlight the risk 
management work we developed with indirect suppliers, 
focusing on tax, legal, labor, and human right aspects.
The relationship we maintain with our customers is 
another fundamental aspect. In order to reinforce our 
role as promoters of connectivity, we started reviewing 
our commercial policy and our service model in order to 
standardize how we communicate with consumers, always 
in compliance with legislation and with our values of trust 
and service attitude. As part of the commitment to quality, 
we maintained the satisfaction monitoring tools in place at 
LAN and TAM and implemented a punctuality project in the 
main airports where we operate in Brazil, involving over 150 
employees and managers for immediate improvements.
Regarding our environmental management, we combined 
investments in the dissemination of policies and best 
practices with actions included in our strategy, such as the 
modernization of the fleet of aircraft. This is an important 
way to reduce costs associated with the consumption of 
fuel and to control greenhouse gas emissions, one of the main impacts of the industry. We do this through the most modern assets available in the market – such as Boeing 787 
Dreamliner, which started flying for the company in 2013.
The implementation of certified management systems and 
the meeting of the commitments made to the International 
Air Transport Association (IATA) are also on our radar. In 
2013, the work conducted to obtain the ISO 14001 certification 
and to structure the systems in the business units were 
maintained. In addition, LAN launched a new version of its 
Safety, Quality, and Environment Policy and neutralized the 
emissions of its ground operations in Peru.
Through the development of a close relationship with 
communities, local authorities, and business partners, 
we have achieved important advances that reinforce our 
contribution to the social and economic development of 
Latin America. In 2013, we maintained the bids of social 
and environmental projects at TAM and the Caring for 
my Destination program at LAN, which communicated 
our proposal to promote sustainable tourism – which is a 
highly relevant topic for our management, as identified in 
our Materiality Matrix, in 2013. Through projects such as 
Discover, in place in Brazil, Chile, and Colombia, we also 
add value to the business by inviting tourism operators and entrepreneurs to discover the beauties and the historical 
and cultural heritage of the region.
These results, combined with the positive trend in our 
economic and financial performance, have led us to positively anticipate the coming years. On one hand, we will 
work on points that require improvement in aspects such 
as the internal environment – which should be capable 
of embracing the diversity of our employees and teams 
and retaining the best talents – and management synergy, especially regarding operational and environmental issues. 
On the other hand, we acknowledge the need to carefully 
manage costs, services, and investments; for the renewal 
of our fleet alone, we will have invested US$12.213 billion 
by 2020. This will require the constant pursuit of efficiency 
in order to meet the expectations of our shareholders 
and to ensure the financial health of the company. 
We understand that these efforts will only make sense and 
will only lead us to become one of the best and largest 
global airlines if they are combined with a good reputation 
and consistent social and environmental practices. We have, 
therefore, committed to the preparation of an integrated 
sustainability policy for the LATAM Airlines Group in the 
coming years – a task that will be strongly supported by 
the topics, indicators, and lessons learned that are mapped, 
obtained, and described in detail throughout this report.
Enjoy your reading.
Mauricio Rolim AmaroIn 2013, we continued to 
integrate LAN's and TAM's 
internal processes, policies, 
and norms, focusing on environmental aspects and on 
relationships with customers, 
employees, and suppliers
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS4
FOREWORDMessage from the 
CEO of the LATAM 
Airlines GroupTwo years after the merger between LAN and TAM, the two 
largest airlines in South America, I can proudly affirm that 
we are increasingly closer to the consolidation of a common 
culture at the LATAM Airlines Group. 
Currently, we have been positioning ourselves as leaders 
in the area in our segment, both in terms of size and 
coverage. We constantly strive to offer our customers the 
best connectivity within the region and with the rest of 
the world, thereby contributing to the development of the 
various countries where we operate. 
2013 was a pivotal year in which our management efforts 
to consolidate the business strategy made it possible for 
us to launch the first integrated Sustainability Report. In 
this document, we provide accountability to our various stakeholders about the advances achieved during the 
period and the projects that will drive our future growth. 
During our first full year of integrated operation, we faced 
the challenge of developing a sustainability vision for 
LATAM Airlines Group. This was, undoubtedly, a major 
task, considering the various positive and negative impacts 
of our management. It imposed the task of growing with 
the best relationship practices and focusing on customer 
satisfaction in their travel experience, on fostering 
sustainable tourism activities, and on management steered 
by operational, social, and environmental excellence.
In terms of economic management, our efforts to balance 
results, costs, and investments included various actions, 
such as the renegotiation of the agreements with our suppliers, the review of the commercial structure, 
and the standardization of our products and services. 
Through these synergies, we recorded a total savings of 
US$300 million, which resulted in a 4.9% margin, and a 
consolidated operating result of US$13,266.1 million for 
the fiscal period. Thus we maintained the focus of our 
investments on making our structure more profitable, 
productive, and efficient.
In 2013, we pursued the important objective of identifying 
the strengths of LAN's and TAM's management areas 
in order to strengthen the integration process and to 
consolidate best practices. To this end, I highlight the ongoing actions in place to mitigate the environmental 
impact of the operations and the efforts made to foster 
tourism and to develop local economies.
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS5
FOREWORDIn the environmental aspect, during the year we assumed 
the industry's global commitment toward carbon-
neutral growth starting in 2020, and we stimulated the 
development of alternative fuels. At the same time, we 
invested in the modernization of our fleet and in fuel-
efficiency initiatives, such as the Smart Fuel and the Lean 
Fuel projects, which allowed us to prevent the emission of 
229,361 tons of CO₂ in 2013 alone.
Our role in the economic development of the region is 
very clear. Considering the 4.1 million foreign passengers 
we carried to the main destinations in South America, we 
estimate our annual contribution to the tourism industry 
to be US$4.3 billion through the money spent by tourists in 
airports and for lodging, food, transportation, sightseeing, 
and shopping.
Aware of our impact on local economies, we seek to 
foster sustainable tourism, which entails operating 
responsibly and in line with the preservation of the 
cultural and environmental heritage. This work resulted 
in the implementation of programs that cover the main 
countries and destinations where we operate. LAN's 
Caring for my Destination program was conducted on 
37 occasions, in 17 locations, with the participation of 
2,000 students from Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, 
and Peru. At TAM, the Bids to Support Social and 
Environmental Projects promote the donation of airline 
tickets and investments in NGOs that foster environmental 
awareness and the development of the territory. The companies of the LATAM Airlines Group are relevant 
employers and business generators in the countries 
where we operate; therefore, I highlight the investments 
in training and local hiring, as well as the advances in the 
consolidation of an internal culture and the development 
of an integrated Code of Conduct for the company, which 
establishes our principles and norms. Concerning the 
work we conduct with our suppliers, we highlight the 
implementation of a supply chain risk assessment project 
and the ProPyme seal, an acknowledgement we received 
from the government of Chile, which reaffirms our 
commitment to timeliness in payments made to small and 
medium-sized suppliers.
We are especially proud of having being featured – for the 
second consecutive year – in the Dow Jones Sustainability 
Index (DJSI), a group of indices that measure the financial 
evolution of the leading companies in each industry 
in terms of corporate sustainability. This participation 
confirms and validates our business strategy, which focuses on creating value for the various stakeholders with which 
we maintain relationships.
We are still working toward an effective integration 
between practices and strategies, which is a complex task 
considering our size and the cultural diversity of our teams 
and operations. In 2014, we will continue to work to leverage 
the business that, in 2013, was already showing signs of 
stabilization toward solid growth, and we will also seek to 
consolidate a sustainability policy for the LATAM Airlines Group, which is critical for the creation of value in the future 
and one of the priorities for the year. I am sure that, with 
the commitment of each of us, we will be able to effectively 
position ourselves as one of the ten most solid, sustainable, 
and reliable airlines in the global airline industry.
Enjoy your reading.
Enrique Cueto Plaza In 2014, we will strive to 
consolidate a sustainability 
policy for the LATAM Airlines 
Group, which is critical for the 
creation of value in the future 
and one of the priorities for the 
fiscal period
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS6
FOREWORDTHE REPORT
For the first time, we present the 
joint performance of LAN and 
TAM in terms of sustainabilityThis is LATAM Airlines Group's first annual sustainability 
report, a result of our efforts to leverage increased synergy 
in communication and management practices. Pertaining 
to the year 2013, the document follows the guidelines 
issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), version 
G4, to communicate, in an integrated manner, the social, 
economic, and environmental performance of LAN, 
TAM, and their subsidiaries. As of 2012, both companies 
presented their social and environmental reports separately. 
[G4-28, G4-29]
The scope of this report includes the businesses pertaining 
to passenger and cargo transportation, among others. 
Throughout the report, the GRI indictors focus on specific 
operating units, which are divided into International 
Businesses, Domestic Brazilian Market (TAM), Spanish 
speaking countries (LAN in Chile, Peru, Argentina, Colombia, 
and Ecuador), and the cargo business of the LATAM Airlines Group, which includes LAN CARGO, TAM Cargo, MasAir, 
and LAN CARGO Colombia. Information concerning other 
operations, such as Multiplus S.A. and TAM Mercosur (TAM's 
unit in Paraguay) is presented later in this report. [G4-20]
The definition of the information to be included in this 
report considered the GRI guidelines, the previous 
sustainability reports issued by LAN and TAM, and 
the survey and identification of relevant management 
topics, which originated the company's first Materiality 
Matrix. In this process, we consulted with our employees 
and external audiences – including customers, 
suppliers, authorities, and specialists – in Brazil and 
Chile, identified the main impacts of the business in 
terms of sustainability, and validated, along with senior 
management, the final list of topics to ensure its alignment 
with our corporate strategy ( learn more on page 29 ). 
[G4-18, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27, G4-47, G4-48]In total, we report 42 indicators related to the GRI aspects that 
pertain to our relevant topics in at least one aspect, pursuant to 
the recommendations for the essential format of the G4 guidelines. 
The content, which was assured by an independent auditor, 
contains information about the direct operations of the company, 
including flights, ground operations in airports and maintenance 
centers, and administrative activities. [G4-18, G4-23, G4-32]
This document will be published annually and its information 
is complementary to our financial statements (available 
at www.latamairlinesgroup.net). The purpose is to provide 
accountability to our stakeholders and to present an 
overview of our management challenges and opportunities 
in relation to sustainability. For questions concerning the information contained in this report, send an e-mail to 
investor.relations@lan.com. [G4-30, G4-31]
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS7
FOREWORDTHE COMPANY
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS8
THE COMPANYPROFILE
With passenger and cargo 
transportation businesses, 
the LATAM Airlines Group 
operations connect Latin 
America to destinations in over 
20 countriesEstablished in 2012 through the merger of the LAN and 
TAM airlines, LATAM Airlines Group S.A. is a publicly held 
corporation, headquartered in Chile, with a leading position 
in Latin America and passenger and cargo transportation 
businesses, in addition to aircraft maintenance services, 
tourism, and customer loyalty programs. [G4-3, G4-4, G4-5, G4-7]
With a network that connects Latin America to destinations 
in North America and Europe, we served approximately  
67 million passengers and carried 1.2 million tons of cargo 
in 2013. Currently, we are responsible for 50% of the air 
traffic in the region.
Our units are divided as follows: international passenger 
business, domestic business for Spanish speaking countries 
(Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru), domestic 
Brazilian market, and LATAM Airlines Group's Cargo Unit, 
which includes LAN CARGO (Chile), TAM CARGO (Brazil), 
MasAir (Mexico), and LAN CARGO Colombia. [G4-6, G4-8, G4-9]With a business model based on the pillars of connectivity, 
diversity, and efficiency, LATAM Airlines Group believes 
in the synergy between two airlines well established in 
the industry. Our objective is to become the most valued 
and admired company in the region. To this end, we have 
advanced in the integration between the processes of the 
two companies, with investments that include the renewal 
of our fleet and the improvement of operational efficiency 
and cost management. Among the actions, we highlight the 
rearrangement of routes to increase flight occupancy, the 
adjustment of infrastructure, and the efforts to improve the 
customer experience. [G4-56]
Currently, we have a fleet of over 330 aircraft – including 
next generation models, such as Boeing 787 Dreamliner, 
which started flying for the company in 2013 – and, as part 
of our business planning, we have placed 166 purchase orders for new aircraft by 2020. 
Our values     
[G4-56]Safety 
It is above all other values. 
It is non-negotiable and the 
responsibility of all.Trust 
Professionalism and 
empathy make people 
trust our company, 
our employees, our 
services, and our 
attitudes. In our line 
of business, trust is 
everything.Profitability
Profitability is a 
consequence of efficient and 
sustainable management.Service attitude
Our service attitude is 
based on our cordiality. 
No norm, procedure, or 
protocol justifies a lack of 
friendliness and care in our 
relationships.Happiness
A positive attitude toward 
life helps generate happiness 
and more satisfaction in everything we do.Diversity 
There are differences among 
ourselves and we value our 
diversity. Respect and candor among all enrich our company.This investment is important to support our renewal 
plan, in line with the reduction of the environmental 
impact of the business; the 787 model, for example, is 
approximately 15% more fuel efficient compared with 
other similarly sized aircraft, and produces direct benefits 
in terms of greenhouse gas emissions, which are reduced 
by the same percentage as the increase in fuel efficiency. 
In all, investments in the modernization of our fleet will 
total US$12.213 billion by 2020. 
Currently, our main operation hubs are the Guarulhos 
(Brazil) and the Lima (Peru) airports, which play a 
strategic role in the connection to international routes. 
We also have two hangars with company-owned 
maintenance centers in the city of São Carlos, in the state 
São Paulo (TAM MRO), and in the Santiago airport, in 
Chile, where we have repair and improvement services 
for our own fleet, as well as for other airlines.
Source: LATAM Code of Conduct 
(completed in 2013, to be published 
in 2014)
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS9
THE COMPANYOur shares are listed in the Santiago, São Paulo, and New 
York stock exchanges; 26% of the company shares are held 
by the Cueto Group, and 12.2% by the Amaro Group. 
 
LATAM Airlines Group posted a net loss of US$281 million in 
2013. This represents a performance that was 46.3% better than 
2012, a result of the efforts to achieve the financial efficiency 
of the business. Throughout the year, we launched two new 
international routes and one domestic route in Colombia. In 
addition, we took some important steps toward the economic 
and financial balance of the company.These actions include the optimization of TAM's operational 
network in Brazil and the integration of our management in 
some areas, such as procurement and human resources. As 
a result, in 2013 we achieved a volume of US$300 million in 
synergies through the integration of the international and 
cargo businesses, in addition to the synergy of costs.
During the year, we also started investigating topics, 
impacts, and corporate initiatives in order to develop an 
integrated sustainability strategy for LATAM Airlines Group. 
We have integrated the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) Emerging Markets since 2012, and we have upheld 
our commitment to the principles and objectives of the 
Global Compact. These efforts create value internally and 
comply with the objective of incorporating the best social 
and environmental management practices into our strategy, 
turning the company into a benchmark for customers, 
investors, business partners, and other audiences.
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS10
THE COMPANYUS$300 
million in synergiesBusinesses Net loss of
US$281.1 
millionApproximately 
4.9% 
of operating margin
Environment79 kg 
CO 2/100 
RTK 
of carbon emissions4,734,304,462L 
of fuel consumed60,723,213kWh 
of energy consumed2.707,8t 
of waste generated  
(hazardous + non-hazardous)
* With American Airlines, Aeroméxico, Alaska Airlines, British Airways, Cathay Pacific, Japan 
Airlines, Korean Air, Iberia, Qantas, Air Canada, Air China, All Nipon Airways Ltd., Egyptair, 
Lufthansa, South African, Swiss International, Turkish, US Airways, and Air Berlin.US$8.4 
billion in market capUS$13,266.1 
billion in operating revenue339 
aircraftLATAM Airlines 
Group in numbers  
(2013 data)  [G4-4, G4-8, G4-9]
Operation52,000 
employees of 27  
nationalities  
in 23 countries166 
purchase orders for  
new aircraft (by 2020)67 million 
passengers carried
1,170,941t
of cargo carried143 
destinations for 
passengers and cargo9 
exclusive destinations  
for the cargo business301 
destinations (total passengers 
domestic and international + 
cargo + code share*)82.3% 
flight occupancy rate 
(international business)80.8% 
occupancy rate  
LATAM Airlines Group
58.3% 
cargo occupancy ratePresent in seven markets  
which, combined, account for 
90% of the air traffic  
in Latin America
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS11
THE COMPANYThe consolidation of the LATAM Airlines Group, which 
was completed in 2012, resulted in the merger between 
two renowned companies in the airline industry of Latin 
America. Synonymous with civil aviation in the region and 
with 85 years of history, LAN currently has subsidiaries in 
Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru, with daily 
flights to domestic and international destinations.
In addition to carrying passengers, the company has 
been operating as one of the largest cargo transportation 
companies in the Southern Cone through LAN CARGO and 
its cargo units located in Mexico, Brazil, and Colombia, 
which are currently integrated into the Cargo Unit of the 
LATAM Airlines Group. In addition, LAN has company-
owned operation centers in Miami and Santiago.OUR FLEET  [G4-9]
—
UnitsCapacity  
(passengers or cargo)Cruise speed  
(km/h)Use
Boeing 767-300 43 205-221-238 870 International
Boeing 777-300 ER 10 362 896 International
Airbus A319-100 54 144 850 Domestic
Airbus A320-200 160 168-174 850 Domestic
Airbus A321-200 10 220 850 Domestic
Airbus A330-200 20 223 870Domestic/
International
Airbus A340-300/500 6 260-267 896-907 International
Boeing 737-700 5 148 828 Domestic
Dash 8-200 7 37 500 Domestic
Dash 8Q-400 3 78 667 Domestic
Boeing 787-8 5 247 913 International
Boeing 777-200F 4 652.7 m³ 896 Cargo only
Boeing 767-300F 12 438.1 m³ 896 Cargo onlyFounded in 1976 as Taxi Aéreo Marília, TAM is currently 
the leading company in the domestic market in Brazil 
with a fleet of 178 aircraft and is responsible for providing 
flights to destinations in Brazil, the United States, and 
Europe. The company, whose motto is "Paixão por voar e 
servir" (“Passion for flying and serving”), is composed of 
TAM holding; TAM Linhas Aéreas; Multiplus S.A. reward 
point program network; TAM MRO maintenance unit; the 
Paraguayan subsidiary TAM Mercosur; and the TAM Viagens 
division (which celebrated its 15th anniversary in 2013). TAM 
Cargo was incorporated into the LATAM Airlines Group's 
Cargo Unit in 2013.
The companies  
[G4-4]
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS12
THE COMPANYCORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
The company's senior 
management fosters synergy 
between strategies and 
operations, in compliance 
with international norms and 
regulationsSince 2012, the merger process has imposed the challenge 
of structuring a governance model capable of integrating 
the decision-making processes of the LATAM Airlines Group, 
allowing for a management structure based on transparency 
and dialogue between executive leaders, managers, 
shareholders, and capital providers of the company.
Currently, we have a governance structure that brings 
together the executives and corporate leaders who 
are responsible for making the strategic decisions 
that involve the integrated business model. Our 
highest governance body is the Board of Directors, 
which is composed of nine members and whose main 
responsibilities are the definition of the strategies for LATAM Airlines Group and monitoring development, 
goals, and leadership performance. 
Board members are elected in the annual general meeting for 
two-year terms. Ordinary meetings are held monthly; however, 
they may be convened according to the business scenario and 
the needs of the company. Mauricio Rolim Amaro has been the 
Chairman of the Board since 2012. [G4-39, G4-42]
In addition, there is a Board Committee, which convenes 
monthly and is composed of three independent members of 
the controlling block of the company, who are elected every two years. This committee is responsible for inspecting the reports and analyses prepared by external auditors, for reviewing the operations with stakeholders, and for 
overseeing the payments and benefits of the main senior 
executives, among other duties. With responsibilities 
that are similar to those of an audit committee, this body 
complies with the Chilean legislation and with the United 
States Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX). [G4-34, G4-38 ]
Under the Board, there are executives (vice presidents and 
directors) who work on behalf of the LATAM Airlines Group 
or within the structures of the LAN and TAM business units. 
The corporate level is composed of leaders from various areas 
– such as Finance, People Management, Marketing, Audit, 
Corporate Functions, and Management Planning and Control – 
who coordinate processes in an integrated manner.
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS13
THE COMPANY> Codes of conduct and ethics
> Channels for reporting concerns> Code of Ethics for senior finance executives> Manual Governing the Handling Information of Concern> Corporate compliance programPillars of the LATAM 
Airlines Group
LAN and TAM have their own governance structures, 
with committees and executives that work in line with 
the strategic guidelines and with the autonomy to 
conduct business at the local level. Marco Bologna is the 
CEO of TAM S.A. and Claudia Sender is the CEO of TAM 
Linhas Aéreas. LAN's main leaders are Ignacio Cueto 
(CEO) and Armando Valdivieso (General Manager for the 
Passenger Business). 
LAN's and TAM's Code of Conduct is in place to steer the 
governance practices of the company; in addition, we 
comply with the main Chilean regulations governing 
privately held companies – laws 18,046 (Ley de 
Sociedades Anónimas) and 18,045 (Ley del Mercado 
de Valores) – and with the policies established by 
Superintendencia de Valores y Seguros de Chile (SVS). 
We are listed in the São Paulo and New York stock 
exchanges; therefore, we also adopt the measures 
established by the Securities and Exchange Commission 
of the United States and of Brazil (CVM). [G4-56]We have a specific code of ethics for finance executives 
that aims to foster the best business conduct practices 
in order to prevent conflicts of interest and to ensure the 
disclosure of financial results, pursuant to the applicable 
laws. In addition, we concluded the preparation of LATAM 
Airlines Group's integrated Code of Conduct, which will 
be launched in 2014 ( learn more on page 17 ). Another 
important document is the LATAM Airlines Group Manual 
Governing the Handling of Information of Concern, which 
offers guidance for the handling of strategic information. 
[G4-43, G4-56, G4-57]
In compliance with the shareholder agreements in effect 
due to the merger between LAN and TAM, the Board of 
Directors has four sub-committees, composed of members 
of the Board, which support the management of this body 
in each of their respective fields: Strategy, Leadership, 
Finance and Brand, Product and Frequent-Flyer Program. Each sub-committee is composed of two or more members 
of the Board and at least one of them is elected by TEP Chile 
S.A., which is owned by the Amaro family. [G4-34, G4-38]
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS14
THE COMPANYBoard of 
Directors [G4-34]> Mauricio Rolim Amaro
> Maria Claudia Amaro 
> Juan José Cueto Plaza
> Georges  de Bourguignon > Ramón Eblen Kadis
> José María Eyzaguirre Baeza 
> Carlos Heller Solari> Gerardo Jofré Miranda
> Francisco Luzón López Main 
executives [G4-34]>  Enrique C ueto  
CEO of LATAM Airlines Group
>  I gnacio Cueto  
CEO of LAN
>  Mar co Bologna  
CEO of TAM S.A.
>  Cla udia Sender  
CEO of TAM Linhas Aéreas
>  Armando V aldivieso  
General Manager of LAN
>  Cristián U reta  
General Manager  
of the Cargo Business>  Damian S cokin  
Senior VP of International 
Passengers Operations 
>  Andr és Osorio  
Senior VP of Finance
>  R oberto Alvo  
Senior VP of Corporate Functions
>  Emilio Del R eal  
Senior VP of Human Resources
>  J erome Cadier  
Senior VP of Marketing
Learn more
> About our governance practices by clicking here.
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS15
THE COMPANYWith a total of 1,600 shareholders in its records by the end of 
2013, LATAM Airlines Group has as its main capital providers 
the Amaro Group (12.2%) through TEP Chile S.A. (TAM 
Empreendimentos e Participações), and the Cueto Group 
(approximately 26%) represented by Costa Verde Aeronáutica 
S.A., Inversiones, Nueva Costa Verde Aeronáutica Ltda., and 
Costa Verde Aeronáutica SpA.
The remaining investor base is composed of various 
institutional investors, legal entities, and natural persons, 
essentially from Chile, and of ADRs (American Depositary 
Receipts, traded at the New York Stock Exchange) and BDRs 
(Brazilian Depositary Receipts, traded at BM&FBOVESPA). 
To ensure autonomy to the management of local businesses 
by the former controllers of the airlines, TEP Chile S.A. holds 
controlling interest at TAM S.A., while the Cueto Group holds 
controlling interest at LAN.Shareholding structure
 Cueto Group Amaro Group
Bethia Group
Eblen Group
ADRs
BDRs
Pension funds
Foreign investorsOthers (Chile)26%12%
6%
5%
7%
16%
8%19%1%
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS16
THE COMPANYWe are committed to ensuring integrity, transparency, and 
good conduct on all markets where the LATAM Airlines 
Group operates. Thus in the last two years, we have 
recorded significant gains pertaining to the systematization 
of the company's compliance program, which includes 
various norms, policies, and procedures that apply to all 
units and operations.
There are codes of ethics and conduct in effect, available 
at the company website (click here), which address topics 
such as fraud, bribery, human rights, information privacy, 
and labor relations, whether within the companies or in 
the relationships developed with business partners, such 
as customers and suppliers. In 2013, we completed the 
development of LATAM Airlines Group's Code of Conduct, 
which is part of the procedures and guidelines of the 
business units. This document will be printed and made 
available in English, Spanish, and Portuguese in 2014; 
internally, it will be disseminated through online training to 
be offered to 100% of the employees. [G4-56]In addition to the guidelines of the airline industry, 
established by entities such as IATA (International Air 
Transport Association), and to the laws in force in the 
countries where we maintain our operations and offices, we 
comply with a series of legal provisions in the markets where 
we operate. Among the most relevant references, we highlight 
the Chilean law that governs the criminal liability of legal 
persons, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the UK 
Bribery Act, and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) ( see chart ). 
In line with these norms, we have internal control 
structures that stimulate the prevention and control of 
cases involving business conduct, corruption, conflicts 
of interest, and fraud at the various business units. 
Among these structures, we highlight the specific 
communication channels (www.lan.ethicspoint.com and 
www.eticatam.com.br ) through which concerns can be 
reported anonymously. The cases are investigated by the 
Ethics Committee, which convenes every three months, with 
the participation of various leaders in the company. [G4-58]The year 2013 was marked by efforts toward the 
integration of TAM's and LAN's practices, as well as by 
training courses on ethics and governance, broken down 
by areas and teams. Training is offered by the compliance 
area of the LATAM Airlines Group and follows an annual 
agenda. In addition to the mandatory training of all new employees, we offer on-site and online training courses on 
corporate governance, ethics, and laws, covering topics 
such as the environment, freedom of competition, and 
consumer rights. In 2013, we trained 28 classes, totaling 
58 hours, in seven locations in Brazil, Chile, and Peru, 
including over 1,010 employees. [G4-43]
LATAM Airlines Group's new Code of Conduct will be 
launched in 2014, when all employees will be trained. We 
will also provide training to critical areas, with examples 
and contextualized data in accordance with the activities, and quarterly cycles about corporate governance covering all business units.
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS17
ETHICS,  
INTEGRITY, AND 
RISK MANAGEMENT
In 2013, our compliance  
program advanced in  
the integration of processes, 
especially in terms  
of developing LATAM Airlines 
Group's  
Code of ConductTHE COMPANY>  Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) 
A North American law, enacted in 1977, which addresses 
various corruption-related topics, such as payments and 
the offer of gifts or inducements to government officials 
with the purpose of obtaining or maintaining businesses
>  Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) 
Enacted in 2002, it determines internal risk control 
frameworks involving ethics and conduct, which should 
be internally designed in organizations
>  OECD Anti-Bribery Convention  
Chile (2001) and Brazil (2000) are among its signatories; it 
addresses topics related to briberyApplicable legislation >  UK Bribery Act  
Similar to FCPA, it has been in effect since 2010 and it is 
applicable to companies whose activities or employees 
are located in British territories, with a series of norms 
governing ethics and anti-corruption procedures
>  Data Privacy & Protection Law 
Also known as Directive 95/46/EC, it is a norm that 
governs the aspects of the privacy of data for citizens  
of the European Union 
>  UN Convention  
United Nations convention on human rights and labor 
rights. Brazil and Chile are signatories to this initiative>  L ey de Responsabilidad Penal  
Personas Jurídicas – Chile (Ley 20.393) 
Enacted in 2009, it addresses the procedures required to 
ensure compliance of legal persons, including companies 
and corporations
>  Lei Anticorrupção (Lei 12.846) – Brazil 
Brazilian anti-corruption legislation, which will enter in 
effect in 2014; it foresees sanctions to companies involved 
in cases of corruption and establishes risk management 
guidelines on this topic
Risk management  
includes aspects such as the 
balance of results, financial 
health, and regulatory and 
industry-specific topicsRisk management  [G4-2]
Given the nature of our business and the specificities of the 
markets and segments where we operate, we have a risk management structure that allows us to map, analyze, and 
control the main externalities that may affect LATAM Airlines 
Group's planning in short, medium, and long term.
In 2013, as part of our advance in this area and of our 
pursuit of increased integration in the company, we 
created a specific risk sub-management department, 
which reports to the corporate finance department. 
This initiative helps leaders to control the efficiency of 
the business, focusing on aspects such as economic 
management, balancing of results, and mitigation of 
potential risks to the company's financial health.Based on mapping conducted by the senior management 
between 2012 and 2013, the company identified the risks 
that influence strategic decision making and that can 
affect future strategies. This action considered various 
business areas, international laws, assessments, and 
criteria used by risk rating agencies and the main 
management challenges currently faced by LAN and 
TAM. To learn more about this work, see our Annual 
Report, available at www.latamairlinesgroup.net .  
As a result of this process, we broke down risks into major 
categories: those pertaining to the merger between LAN 
and TAM; those related to Chile, Brazil, and other markets 
where we operate; those involving our common shares; and 
those regarding our operations in the airline industry.  Consequently, we identified that aspects associated with 
exchange rates, interest rates, and fuel prices, for example, 
should be at the core of our strategic planning and of the 
company's action plans.
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS18
THE COMPANYOUR STRATEGY
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY VALUE CHAIN ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS19
OUR STRATEGYRESULTS, 
INVESTMENTS,  
AND PERSPECTIVES
Based on connectivity, diversity, 
and maximum operational 
efficiency, we strive to ensure 
the creation of value in our 
various businessesWith an integrated model that includes two major service 
categories – cargo and passenger transportation to domestic 
and international destinations – the LATAM Airlines 
Group is conducted based on its strength and presence in 
Latin America, with the purpose of fostering synergy in its 
operations, economic and financial sustainability, and our 
consolidation as the airline of choice in the region.
Businesses are planned based on three pillars: 
connectivity , diversity , and efficiency . Connectivity  
refers to LATAM Airlines Group's capability of fostering 
the flow of businesses and people in Latin America and 
on other markets. Through strategic hubs, such as São 
Paulo (Brazil) and Lima (Peru), and a wide network of 
local routes, we have structured our main offering of 
domestic flights to connect our region and to ensure the 
satisfaction of our customers through excellence in the 
services we provide in the passenger and cargo segments.Diversity  pertains both to the various geographical areas 
where we operate – the regional and domestic markets 
of countries such as Colombia, Peru, Ecuador, Paraguay, 
and Argentina, where we have LATAM Airlines Group 
business units – and to our other businesses. Currently, 
approximately 14% of corporate results come from the 
cargo business, 83% from passenger transportation, and 
3% from other activities such as maintenance services, 
travel operations, and reward and customer loyalty 
programs. With this diversification, it is possible to ensure 
the generation of results, to optimize aircraft occupancy, 
and to expand our value proposition. 
As a common challenge to other companies in the 
industry, efficiency  addresses needs that range from cost 
management to improvements that can be leveraged in 
various aspects of our operation, from service charges 
and flight occupancy rate to expenses for raw materials. In addition to the adaptation of routes and itineraries, 
we make special investments in the reduction of fuel 
consumption, in efficient environmental management, 
and in the modernization of our fleet.
We have recently launched new routes, especially in our 
international operation, with two new itineraries: Aruba, 
from Bogotá (Colombia), and Miami, from Belém (Brazil), 
since the first quarter of 2014. We also launched a new 
domestic route in Colombia. In Ecuador, the Quito-Manta 
route, which was launched in March 2013 and operates twice 
daily, was temporarily suspended in September due to the 
restructuring process of domestic destinations and routes.
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY VALUE CHAIN ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS20
OUR STRATEGYThe occupancy rate for our flights in the domestic 
business in Brazil was expanded and reached 79.7%, a 
performance that exceeded the industry average of 76%, 
according to the Brazilian regulatory agency (ANAC). In 
Spanish-speaking markets, this rate reached 79%, and 
for the LATAM Airlines Group as a whole, it reached 
an average of 80%. This indicator, which is critical for 
efficiency, is continuously enhanced through the review 
of routes and flights, seeking a balance between cost 
and demand and the growth of partnerships with other airlines, such as American Airlines, with which TAM 
and LAN Colombia closed code-share deals in 2013. Given the constant renewal of our assets, the average age of 
our fleet is seven years, one of the best in the world. Presently, 
we have 339 aircraft and 166 new planes have been ordered 
to replace part of our current fleet, totaling US$12.213 billion 
in investments by 2020. Among these, we highlight next 
generation aircraft, such as Boeing 787, Boeing 777-200 F, 
Airbus A350, and Airbus A321; the first five 787s were received 
by the company in 2013, and in the next eight years, another 32 
aircraft will be delivered. We devote special attention to the part 
of our fleet that operates in long-haul flights, in which we have 
identified significant opportunities to increase our efficiency 
and to reduce our environmental impact. In addition to enabling the more rational use of fuels, other 
inputs, and services, such as maintenance, these aircraft 
are equipped with modern operational safety systems, 
which ensure flights that are more comfortable and safe. In 
addition to the efforts made to offer quality services with 
the lowest cost possible to the company and to customers, 
we believe that this is the main path to achieving the 
sustainability of the business.
In 2013, we continued to diversify our businesses, 
prioritizing premium services in passenger and 
cargo transportation, to improve our operational 
LATAM Airlines Group 
operational performance 
2013
> 8.4% reduction (capacity)
>  79.7% occupancy r ate  
(6.1% above 2012)TAM
33
40
>  15% growth in  
the consolidated traffic
> 80% occupancy rateLAN Colômbia
4.2
20
Passengers carried  
(million)
Destinations
>  0.3% growth in  
the consolidated trafficLAN Argentina
2.3
14>  11% growth in the  
number of passengers LAN Chile
7
16
> 33.2% market shareLAN Equador
1.3
6>  16.3% growth in the  
consolidated trafficLAN Perú
5.3
14
> 58.3% occupancy rate (belly)Carga
1.2t
143 destinations in 23 countries
> 82.3% occupancy rate
>  2.4% growth in the  
consolidated trafficInternational Passengers
12.8
26  (international  
and regional)
regional (South America)  
and 39 international
Highlights of the operation(domestic)
(domestic) (domestic)(domestic) (domestic) (domestic)
Cargo (million)
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY VALUE CHAIN ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS21
OUR STRATEGYinfrastructure and to integrate our business units. 
We also started to develop our Strategic Planning, 
which will be completed in 2014 and will define 
commitments and objectives for the coming years.
In the cargo business, which is considered strategic for 
strengthening our business model and is marked by 
LAN's expertise, we are confident in the strengthening 
of our network thanks to the merger. TAM's strategic 
entry in the main hubs of the region, such as the 
Guarulhos airport, receives investments to reinforce 
the local maintenance and operation structure. 
Our main objective is that this business, in which we are 
one of the ten most important global players, will lead us to become the fifth largest cargo transportation company in 
the world in the coming years. 
Thus considering the relevant role played by LAN CARGO 
in the regional market, LATAM Airlines Group's Cargo Unit 
– which integrates the activities of LAN CARGO, TAM Cargo, 
MasAir, and LAN CARGO Colombia – has been investing 
in the modernization of its fleet and infrastructure, in the 
management of its customer portfolio, and in the operation 
on markets in Europe – such as Frankfurt (Germany), 
Madrid (Spain), and Paris (France) – and in the United 
States (New York and Miami). 
In 2013, we consolidated the Customer Care project, 
which allows us to integrate the service provided to customers of the Cargo Unit. The purpose of this 
action is to manage any inconvenience with shipments, 
to monitor issues, and to provide information to 
customers within the time standard defined.
Also in 2013, we launched a new cargo terminal in 
Manaus, in the North of Brazil, a country in which we are 
investing US$20 million in cargo terminal infrastructure.
There are significant opportunities for growth and 
synergy in the maintenance area. We have advanced in 
the integration of the processes of the two companies 
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY VALUE CHAIN ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS22
OUR STRATEGYand in our capability to serve other airlines in our 
main centers. In our hangar in the Santiago airport, for 
example, we completed the implementation of a third 
production line, expanding our capacity to provide 
maintenance to our own aircraft and to that of partners. 
In 2013, we completed the first phase of the capacity 
expansion plan for our base, adjacent to the airport 
in Chile, through the opening of new airport aprons 
in an area of 25,000 m2 and through environmental improvements, which focus on the management of 
hazardous waste and the improvement of working 
conditions. Future actions will take place until 
2016, involving investments of US$18.74 billion.At TAM MRO, which is TAM S.A.'s maintenance base, 
headquartered in São Carlos, state of São Paulo, we have 
obtained certifications for the maintenance of several Airbus, 
Boeing, and Fokker models, including the installation and 
remodeling of engines, propellers, and landing gear using 
local technology and labor. 
Among the certifications we received, we can highlight 
those issued by renowned entities such as the National 
Civil Aviation Agency (ANAC); the Federal Aviation 
Administration (FAA), from the United States; the European 
Aviation Safety Agency (EASA); the Transport Canada Civil 
Aviation (TCCA); the Dirección General de Aeronáutica Civil 
(DGAC), from Chile; and the International Air Transport Association (IATA). As part of our business plan, our 
objective is to expand the services to external customers by 
TAM MRO, increasing its operation by 20% p.a. until 2016.
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY VALUE CHAIN ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS23
OUR STRATEGYFor airlines, connectivity is intimately related to the global 
trend of the industry, which drives companies to develop 
networks through business partnerships. In 2013, the 
LATAM Airlines Group selected the oneworld program to 
connect its network to more than 150 destinations operated 
by leading airline companies in the Americas and Europe. 
In addition to LAN and TAM (which will become part of 
LATAM Airlines Group in April 2014), oneworld is composed 
of American Airlines, British Airways, Cathay Pacific, Iberia, 
Qantas, Finnair, Japan Airlines, S7 Siberia Airlines, Royal 
Jordanian, AB Air Berlin, and Malaysia Airlines. One world:  
A window to the world
Economic performance
According to IATA, the results projected for the airline 
industry in 2013 foresee a growth between 1.8% and 2.6% in 
the profit margin. This data, calculated based on information 
provided by 240 companies – including the LATAM Airlines 
Group – which, combined, are responsible for 84% of the 
commercial airline flow, suggests a global profit of US$12.9 
billion for the industry. This result is influenced by the 
expectation for lower fuel cost, gains in efficiency, and 
growth in the global demand of passengers.
Also under the influence of the merger between LAN 
and TAM in 2013, LATAM Airlines Group posted a net 
loss of US$281.1 million which, although challenging, is 
46.3% below the US$523.1 million recorded in 2012. This 
data reflects the costs arising from the consolidation 
of the merger, which include administrative expenses, investments, and increased fuel and tax-related costs. The 
operating revenue was US$13.266 billion, a growth of 
0.3% over the previous year, and the operating costs were 
US$12.622 billion. 
In the cargo business, we carried 1,170,941 tons and recorded 
a total result of US$1.862 billion; in the passenger business, 
we posted revenues of US$11.061 billion, an increase of 0.4% 
over 2012. The results were affected by adjustments in the 
operational network and in labor, and by the integration of the 
operations conducted by LAN and TAM in the international 
segment. These results are also in line with our planning, 
which foresees the adjustment of routes and itineraries to 
ensure the profitability of the company.
In 2013, we maintained our expectations pertaining 
to the synergies achieved after the establishment of the LATAM Airlines Group. We recorded total savings 
of US$300 million in the year, and our goal is to reach 
between US$600 and US$700 million by June 2016, our 
fourth year as LATAM Airlines Group. Aware of the 
market demands, especially in terms of transparency 
of information disclosed, the company is presently 
adequately aligned in terms of financial communication, achieved through the project that has been developed 
with the areas since the merger between LAN and TAM.
In 2014, our main objective will be the identification of 
opportunities for greater value generation, with more 
integration between operations, and positive results 
for the investments in fleet modernization, technology, 
and efficiency. The results projected for the coming year 
foresee an operating margin between 6% and 8% (less the 
costs for the renovation of the fleet).
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY VALUE CHAIN ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS24
OUR STRATEGYGeneration of value for 
stakeholders
[G4-EC1]Cargo
Others (maintenance, 
 tourism, and others)
Passengers83%14%REVENUE BY BUSINESS
—
3%
(in US$ thousands)Economic Value Generated 10,008,989 13,340,884 
Revenue by Net Sales 9,710,372 12,924,537 
Financial Revenue 77,489 72,828 
Participation in gains (losses)  
in Associated Companies972 1,954 
Other revenue, by function 220,156 341,565 2012 2012 2013 2013
Economic Value Distributed 9,264,350 12,045,669 
Operating Costs 6,954,048 9,085,484 
Salaries and Benefits of Employees 1,908,915 2,492,769 
> Expenses for personnel 1,908,915 2,492,769 
Payments to capital providers 294,598 462,524 
> Financial costs 294,598 462,524 
Payments to Governments 105,535 3,834 
> Fines 3,149 3,834 
> Payment of taxes on profit 102,386  –   
Social investments in the community 1,254 1,058 
> Donations 1,254 1,058 
Economic Value Retained 744,639 1,295,215 
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY VALUE CHAIN ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS25
OUR STRATEGYAirbus A320neo
> Modern engines and equipment 
> A 15% reduction in fuel consumption
>  R educed CO₂ emission and  
noise generationAirbus A350
> A 25% reduction in fuel consumption> A 25% reduction in operating costs
> Rolls-Royce Trent XWB engine
> Reduced CO₂ emission and noiseBoeing B787
> A 15% reduction in fuel consumption> A 12% reduction in operating costs
> Reduced CO₂ emission and noise
> Decreased maintenance costsMore modern, more efficient
The company invests in  
the acquisition of aircraft  
that allow for reduction in 
operating costs, decrease of environmental impacts, and 
maximum flight safety 
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY VALUE CHAIN ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS26
OUR STRATEGYSUSTAINABILITY 
MANAGEMENT
Our challenge is to develop 
integrated policies that allow for 
the management of social and 
environmental impacts across 
all business units The LATAM Airlines Group aims to develop integrated 
sustainability management. By merging two companies 
that are leaders in their regions, with different backgrounds 
and practices in their respective markets, we have identified 
opportunities to guide our business model, considering social 
and environmental pillars such as the efficient use of natural 
resources, incentives for local communities, and promotion of 
sustainable tourism. 
Some relevant topics in the sustainability area are intrinsically 
connected to the businesses of the airline industry. In the 
environmental area, for example, we highlight aspects 
involving greenhouse gas emissions and consumption of 
fossil fuels. Today, studies show that the airline industry is 
responsible for approximately 2% of the CO₂ released into 
the atmosphere. Accordingly, the company stands out for 
managing its flight emissions and for various initiatives, such 
as its carbon-neutral ground operations in Peru. The use of direct energy accounts for 43% of airline 
costs, according to industry-specific data, and has been 
studied in order to develop clean and economically 
feasible technologies to be used in air transportation 
with the lowest possible impact. In this regard, we 
highlight the importance of the research involving biofuels 
(learn more on page 74 ) and of the modernization of the 
aircraft fleet.
Another important point lies in the management of solid 
hazardous or non-hazardous waste generated by ground 
and air activities, including organic waste generated 
in-flight and oils and materials used in aircraft repairs, 
cargo transportation, and administrative activities. This 
topic is especially relevant for regulated markets, such 
as Brazil, which affects TAM's operations and stimulates 
various projects that focus on the proper storage and 
disposal of materials. [G4-2]Likewise, we have identified relevant social and economic 
impacts that we have promoted in the communities 
where we operate. In addition to connectivity, which 
is a direct impact of our business and which we 
know generates momentum and development in 
local economies, we play a pivotal role in fostering 
tourism – one of the main sources of income in specific 
areas of Chile, Peru, and Brazil, among others.
On the other hand, we are aware of the potentially adverse 
impacts that can be generated, considering our position as 
the largest operator in the industry in some markets. This 
may significantly affect prices, flight options, and the use of 
slots at airports, with potential impacts on consumers and 
competing airlines. [G4-2]
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY VALUE CHAIN ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS27
OUR STRATEGYMapping of topics and impacts
In 2013, we conducted LATAM Airlines Group's first 
integrated materiality process, which sought to map 
the main social, economic, and environmental impacts 
associated with our businesses. This process considered 
the opinion of our main target audiences. We consulted 
with executives, employees, customers, suppliers, market 
analysts, and other industry-specific experts, among others, 
to understand the points we need to address in our social 
and environmental management. [G4-24, G4-25, G4-26]
This work was conducted in our main markets (Chile and 
Brazil) and involved individual interviews, work meetings, 
panel discussions, and online inquiries, which resulted in the preparation of LATAM Airlines Group's Materiality 
Matrix, which was validated by the senior management. 
Nine material aspects were identified for the company. 
[G4-24, G4-25, G4-26]
This process was a significant input for the preparation of 
this report and will also allow us to develop our integrated 
sustainability strategy in the coming years. Today, both 
LAN and TAM have specific policies on the topic, which 
were prepared before the merger. For 2014, we foresee 
joint management, based on inquiries, guidelines, and 
the strategic business pillars, which will enable us to act 
proactively in relation to the main topics and impacts we 
generate to society. [G4-18, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27]Priority Topics  [G4-19, G4-20, G4-21]
In this Sustainability Report, we present our performance 
and the main actions involving the company's material 
topics, in line with the methodology of the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI). As part of the development of its content, 
we established the relationship between the nine topics, the 
GRI aspects, and the boundaries of the impacts generated 
within and outside the company's operations. 
The table on the following page presents the results of this 
work, which influenced the definition of the performance 
indicators described in this report. To learn more about the 
actions pertaining to each topic, click the links to navigate 
to the related sections.
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY VALUE CHAIN ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS28
OUR STRATEGYMaterial topics [G4-19]Our approach [G4-27]Extent of impacts* 
(LATAM Airlines Group) 
[G4-20]Extent of impacts*  
(value chain) [G4-21]Associated GRI aspects Section
Management with  
eco-efficiencyTo reach excellence levels in waste management and in the 
use of natural resourcesEmployees > Suppliers
> Customers (passengers)> Government and regulatory agencies
>  Society (communities surrounding 
airports and operating units) 
operacionais)
> Investors> Environment> Economic Performance > Materials > Energy > Water > Emissions 
> Sewage and Waste 
> Products and Services > Transportation > Overall> Our approach> Carbon Emissions
>   Energy efficiency  
and fuels
> Waste and effluents> Noise and air qualityMitigation of climate 
changeTo continuously reduce the intensity of emissions, 
research new fuel technologies, and control our impact  
on air qualityEmployees
Noise reduction Permanent control and investments in technology to 
reduce the acoustic impact of aircraft on the communities surrounding the airportsEmployees
Connectivity and 
customer relationshipsInvestments in service quality, in transparent 
communication and ethics, and in meeting the new demands of our customersEmployees> Customers (passengers/cargo)
>  Str ategic partners (universities, 
NGOs, tourist agencies)
>  Government and  
regulatory agencies
>  Society (communities surrounding 
airports and operating units)
> Investors> Occupational health and safety > Security practices > Customer health and safety > Labeling of products and service > Marketing communications > Customer privacy 
> Compliance with regulations> Customers
> Our people
Health and safety  
in the air and  
on the groundTo manage the potential risks and to assure the highest 
security standards to our customers, employees and the 
community Employees
Retention of talents 
and turnover controlActions to improve performance and career management 
in the various business units, seeking to create an integrated LATAM Airlines Group cultureEmployees> Society (communities surrounding 
airports and operating units)
> Investors> Training and education> Employment> Our people 
Relationship with 
governments and 
specific regulationsPermanent dialogue with governments, local authorities, 
and entities that represent the industry in order to reach 
responsible business solutions–> Customers (passengers/cargo)> Government and regulatory agencies
>  Society (communities surrounding 
airports and operating units)
> Investors
> Environment> Compliance with regulations
> Economic performance> Governments and Institutions> Society
Economic and  
financial sustainabilitySynergy in cost and asset management, planning of 
current and future investments, and focus on the creation of value for the company and its capital providersEmployees> Suppliers> Customers (passengers/cargo)> Government and regulatory agencies
>  Society (communities surrounding 
airports and operating units)
> Investors> Environment> Economic performance> Public policies> Our strategy
>  Ethics, integrity , and risk 
management
> Customers> Suppliers> Society
>  Governments  
and Institutions
> Shareholders and Investors
Promotion of 
sustainable tourismManagement and monitoring of social and economic 
impacts fostered by our activities in the communities–> Suppliers> Customers (passengers/cargo)
>  Str ategic partners (universities, 
NGOs, tourist agencies)
>  Government and  
regulatory agencies
> Communities impacted by tourism> Investors> Environment> Market presence
> Indirect economic impacts> Customers
> Suppliers
> Governments and Institutions
> Society
* * The extent of impacts indicates the main stakeholders and locations, inside and out of our own operations, in where/to which our material topics are more relevant.LATAM AIRLINES GROUP MATERIALITY 
ISSUES, IMPACTS, AND THEIR EXTENT
—
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY VALUE CHAIN ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS29
OUR STRATEGYVALUE CHAIN
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS30
VALUE CHAINCUSTOMERS
The company invests in 
efficient service to ensure the 
best possible experience for 
passengers and clients of the 
cargo businessWith over 60 million passengers carried in 2013, we understand 
that our relationship with our customer base is critical for a 
successful business model. Our leadership in Chile (where 
we have a 76% market share), in Brazil (40%), and in Peru 
(64%), and our presence among the 12 largest cargo airlines 
in the world represents the challenge of providing premium 
services and of building customer loyalty in various markets, in 
addition to enhancing and standardizing processes.
In 2013, we started reviewing our service model with the 
purpose of integrating and improving the way our business 
units operate. Also in the course of the year, we worked to 
update LATAM Airlines Group's commercial policy, which addresses topics such as reimbursement and compensation 
practices, in order to operate in a more integrated manner in 
line with consumer laws of the countries where we operate.
We made substantial advances concerning valuing our 
clients. We focus on offering the best experience to those 
who use our services, from planning to the end of the trip, winning the trust of all, making targeted offerings, and 
respecting the profile of each customer.
  
It is the transformation of our service policy that shifts the 
company's focus from passengers to customers.Presently, we have an integrated service management 
center, which is responsible for defining the guidelines 
that will govern the actions of employees at airports 
and stores, on aircraft, and in the communication 
channels made available to customers. Management 
is conducted by our own teams, with certain 
procedures that are common to both units, such as 
customer committees and Products and Services 
Meeting (RPS in the Brazilian acronym). In this forum, 
already in place at LAN and structured at TAM in 
2013, directors of various areas analyze operational 
and satisfaction indicators to address critical 
cases and modify strategies based on feedback.
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS31
VALUE CHAINAt LAN, there are direct service channels, such as the 
sales offices, and indirect service channels, such as travel 
agencies, the Contact Center, the Internet, and social 
networks (Facebook and Twitter). The Contact Center 
provides various types of services, such as LAN Tours, 
ticket sales, and LANPASS, among others. At TAM, the 
main channels are Customer Service (SAC), sales offices, 
websites, social networks, and the Ombudsman channel. 
Both airlines also provide in-flight entertainment tools, 
such as LAN's magazine IN and TAM's magazine and TV 
channel TAM nas Nuvens . 
TAM also has a Call Center and the “ Fale com a Gente ” 
(Talk to Us) service, which celebrated its 21st anniversary 
in 2013. With a team of 164 employees, this service 
recorded approximately 900,000 contacts, by phone, 
e-mail, or social networks, in 2013. “ Fale 2.0 ” (Talk to Us v2.0) involves the provision of customer service through 
Facebook and Twitter, and recorded over 90,000 contacts 
during the year, with a response rate of approximately 
70%. All contacts made by customers are recorded and 
consolidated to improve service.
In 2013, TAM implemented the Procon-Fone  service, which 
aims to help the agents of the consumer protection agency 
in the escalation of requests and complaints made by 
customers, thus avoiding such complaints becoming 
lawsuits. Last year, approximately 600 cases were handled 
through Procon-Fone, and the volume of complaints filed 
with Procon in relation to the company dropped by 5%.
At the Contact Center, we provide services in Spanish, 
Portuguese, English, French, and German, with specific 
channels for passengers (TAM and LAN), cargo (LAN CARGO and TAM Cargo), and travel (TAM Viagens and LAN 
Tours), as well as the Multiplus Fidelidade network. For 
passengers of international flights, we provide a customer 
service channel (SAC) dedicated to the markets of Europe 
and the Americas. As part of a strategy to offer an improved 
experience in our relationship, customers of some 
categories of LANPASS and TAM Fidelidade are served by a 
differentiated team.
The service structure has 1,675 external professionals 
(outsourced workers) and approximately 1,130 of our own 
employees. We have internal goals that deal with response 
times. For ordinary cases, we take an average of 24 hours 
to respond to customers. For urgent cases, response time 
can be within six hours. However, aspects such as pending 
issuance of tickets, luggage, rescheduling, reimbursement, 
and other more complex matters may take longer. On TAM's 
In 2013, the company reviewed 
its customer service model, 
focusing on the pursuit of 
synergy between the practices  
at LAN and TAM.
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS32
VALUE CHAINWith the expected attraction of 600,000 tourists to 
Brazil in a little over a month, according to government 
estimates, the 2014 World Cup will represent a 
significant challenge to airlines. Through a work group 
composed of 120 people and 15 leaders of various 
areas, TAM has been studying measures to ensure the 
punctuality and quality of the services to be provided 
in June and July, when the World Cup will take place. 
One of the main investments lies in hiring additional 
personnel to work in the call center and airports. In 
addition, we have expanded investments in training. Preparation for the World Cupsocial networks, we have an executive group – including 
TAM Linhas Aéreas CEO, Cláudia Sender – which is 
responsible for analyzing possible crisis that could affect 
the reputation of the company.
Quality in service
Our commitment to customers is based on our codes  
of conduct, on the laws in force in the markets where we 
operate, and on the Passenger's Manual – a document 
that contains the rights and duties of the users of our 
main service. In 2013, we launched a study to understand 
the profile of passengers, covering items such as 
customer motivation and expectations, so that the 
company can record better results in terms of developing 
the loyalty of external audiences.To measure results, we analyzed a series of indicators such 
as flight punctuality, the satisfaction expressed in surveys, 
and the volume of complaints registered via Customer 
Service (SAC) or the Ombudsman department, which impact 
the remuneration of employees. We also used the seat and 
belly occupancy rates (cargo capacity) of our flights to plan 
improvements and adjustments for our operations. 
In recent years, we have achieved some positive results: 
the satisfaction of international and cargo customers, for 
example, has increased. 
Another important point of attention is privacy. Since 
we handle personal data and banking information, 
often times recording this information in our systems during the purchase and reservations processes, 
we have information technology guidelines and 
procedures in place to ensure the protection of the 
information provided through our channels. 
LAN's Code of Conduct has a specific section for this 
topic, which provides guidelines about information 
security to employees and partners. At TAM, the 
Customer Data Protection and Privacy Policy addresses 
the duties, principles, and responsibilities of the 
employees of the sales area and other specific divisions, 
in addition to tourist agencies while handling the 
information of those who use our services. [G4-PR8]
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS33
VALUE CHAINSatisfaction surveys [G4-PR5]
We measured the satisfaction of our passengers using the 
Net Promoter Score (NPS) methodology. This indicator is 
obtained through an online questionnaire, to be completed 
after passengers fly with us. This questionnaire covers 
topics pertaining to their experience during their last 
trip (in-flight service, punctuality, airports, and service 
quality). In addition, we conduct satisfaction surveys with 
the members of the frequent-flyer programs (LANPASS and 
TAM Fidelidade) and at various points of contact. 
These are strategic results; therefore, they are not publicly 
disclosed. However, the data is regularly presented to 
employees, influencing the value of their annual bonuses 
in all levels of the organization. For the cargo business, we 
conduct a satisfaction survey that maps the percentage of customers who assigned the highest possible score to their 
experience with the company.For the passenger business, we recorded stable results. 
Generally, passengers are more satisfied with the services 
provided in the markets served by LAN and with business 
class; in terms of significant operations, Chile presents a 
satisfaction rate that exceeds Peru and Brazil. The main 
points of dissatisfaction in these countries are punctuality, 
in-flight experience, ticket prices, and services provided at 
airports. Satisfaction can be explained mainly due to the 
sense of safety the airline inspires and to in-flight services 
(which also have a positive influence on indicators).
Regarding the cargo business, overall satisfaction 
with the service is monitored annually for national 
and international operations. In the first case, we 
measure five points (locations); in the second, 
20, which is over 84% of the total revenue of the 
Cargo Unit. We recorded over 2,600 responses from 
customers in 2013, twice as many as in 2012. In 2013, the satisfaction of cargo customers increased by 
4% over the previous year (
see chart ). Among the aspects 
that require improvement, we highlight the resolution 
of inconveniences, the service provided by the Contact 
Center and by the sales executives, and the perception of 
the quality/price ratio. Results improved more noticeably 
in Miami, São Paulo, and Bogota. However, in Lima 
and Frankfurt, there was a decrease in satisfaction. In 
Santiago and Buenos Aires, we recorded stable rates. In 
addition, among the aspects that need improvement are 
the timely receiving of cargo at the origin, the maintenance 
of its conditions, and the itineraries available. In 2014, 
there will be new tools to measure satisfaction.*  In 2012, the number of people surveyed doubled,  
and a sampling error below 5% was maintainedSATISFACTION – CARGO CUSTOMERS*  [G4-PR5]
—
2010
2011 2012
2013  57%
    67%
   65%     69%
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS34
VALUE CHAINIn addition to guiding our strategy, the opinion of 
our customers generates permanent management 
improvements. In 2013, for example, as a result of 
passenger complaints concerning the delays in domestic 
flights in Brazil, we developed a punctuality project in 
the airports in São Paulo (Guarulhos and Congonhas), 
Brasília (Federal District), and Rio de Janeiro (Galeão). 
This initiative, which involved 145 people and nine 
leaders in 27 work forums, improved the punctuality of 
flights throughout the year.
In 2013, the percentage of delayed arrivals for the short-
haul flights operated by the LATAM Airlines Group 
recorded an improvement of over 2.7% compared with 
2012, which was driven by LAN's and TAM's operations. 
For long-haul flights, there was a slight increase of 0.7% 
in the number of delayed flights, which was caused by 
problems with the new long-haul fleet.Punctuality
OUR PUNCTUALITY 
—
Short-haul flights (under 3h)  
with delays of over 15 minutes
Long-haul flights with delays  
of over 15 minutes 19,8%16,2%
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS35
VALUE CHAINBenefits and exclusiveness
With the purpose of improving the customer experience 
and turning LATAM Airlines Group into the company of 
choice for flights and services in Latin America, in recent 
years we have been investing in the modernization of our 
customer services. Concerning passengers, we highlight 
a few important actions, such as the self check-in 
(whether online or through kiosks at airports), the use of 
a virtual assistant to answer questions on the company 
websites, and the launch of apps for smartphones (at 
TAM), through which it is possible to cancel or change 
reservations, in addition to obtaining information on 
scheduled flights. The Customer Care area for the Cargo Unit, created in 2013, 
supports our customers by providing timely information 
and solutions that meet their needs in case of problems with 
flights. These services include the notification, via e-mail, 
about the incident and its progress, the online tracking 
of cargo, and the digitizing of transportation documents. 
After the creation of this area, the positive perception our 
customers had of how we handle problems increased by 49.2 
points, with a satisfaction rate of 52.4%.   
Moreover, we developed our e-business, a set of 
electronic initiatives (e-tracking, e-booking, e-freight, 
e-AWB) that enables us to deliver added value to our customers by enhancing their experience, 
decreasing operating costs, increasing change 
speed, and reducing the use of paper. [G4-EN27]
Our customer loyalty programs include the LANPASS 
and TAM Fidelidade programs. They allow us to 
offer advantages and convenience to over 19 million 
frequent flyers of LATAM Airlines Group, located 
mainly in Brazil, Chile, Argentina, Peru, Colombia, 
and Ecuador. At LAN alone, the program allowed 
360,000 passengers to fly free of cost in 2013.  
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS36
VALUE CHAINThe first program, created by LAN in 1984, offers a number of 
benefits through the accumulation of LANPASS miles, which 
can be redeemed for free tickets, other products in the catalog, 
or gift cards, among other prizes. Miles are accumulated by 
flying with LAN, TAM, and other oneworld member airlines 
and by purchasing products from participating merchants or 
by using the services provided by participating companies. In 
2013, the network was reinforced with new partners in Chile, 
Argentina, Peru, Ecuador, and Colombia. 
In January 2013, a new category of LANPASS membership, 
called Comodoro Black, was launched; it is the highest 
premium category and offers its members an executive 
service called Special Services, access to priority services 
for their immediate family, and maximum priority in 
upgrades among the categories.
TAM Fidelidade is TAM's frequent-flyer program, created 
in 1993. It was the first of its kind in Brazil and it has 
over 10.5 million members in five categories: White, Blue, Red, Red Plus, and Black. The program is a part of 
Multiplus, a TAM unit that was created in 2009 and that 
has been listed in the Stock Exchange since 2010. It is 
the largest customer loyalty network in Brazil and allows 
its members to earn points from various companies 
operating in different segments via a single account, 
whether directly or indirectly (through transfers from 
an associated program), in over 13,000 stores; members 
can redeem their points for over 420,000 options of 
products and services. In December 2013, the Multiplus 
network had over 460 partners and 12 million members.
Both programs remain independent and no changes were 
made to their rules, categories, or accounts. However, 
members can now earn and redeem points in either of 
them, according to the rules, rates, and availability of 
each company. In addition, we have been working to offer access to the main preferred benefits when members of one 
program fly with another company, such as priority check-
in service, access to VIP rooms, and priority boarding. Customer loyalty programs 
provide customers with 
advantages and benefits, 
ensuring the best experience.
Given the nature of LATAM Airlines Group's businesses, 
the categories of products and services through which the 
impact on the health and safety of our clients are assessed 
are the updating of the first-aid kits (FAK), implementation 
of new kits, the installation of Automated External 
Defibrillators (AED), the training of crews on the use of the AED, the ability of doctors on duty to respond via telephone, 
and the response of the staff on duty for the MedAire calls. 
In 2013, we updated the contents of 100% of the LATAM 
Airlines Group´s fleet kits (Stat Kit 700) in order to meet 
the standards of all subsidiaries. The equipment is being 
installed gradually. There were delays in the replacement of old FAKs, and at the end of 2013, LATAM Airlines Group was 
still waiting for the inputs required for the implementation 
of the new kits that had been purchased. For 2014, our goal 
is to complete the implementation of the new FAKs.In-flight health and safety  [G4-PR1]
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS37
VALUE CHAINOUR PEOPLE
We are committed to  
developing a new corporate 
culture that takes into 
consideration multiculturalism and the expectations of our 
internal audienceReflecting the combination of the workforces of two 
companies that have a strong presence in Latin America, 
the LATAM Airlines Group had, at the end of 2013, 
approximately 52,000 employees in administrative, 
executive, operational, ground service, and crew 
positions in 20 countries. This number is lower than the previous year because of the implementation of the staff 
restructuring plan, which resulted in the termination 
of part of TAM's crew (approximately 10% of its total 
number of employees) and part of LAN's employees. 
This process occurred given the need to adapt the 
supply of services – especially in the domestic segment – and to unify customer service areas, to increase flight 
occupancy rates, and to rebalance the company margins, 
which had been affected by high fuel costs and by the 
depreciation of the Brazilian real against the dollar.
This restructuring process was carefully implemented 
after studies to adjust to the new operational reality of the 
company, which were monitored by governments and trade 
unions. The option to adhere to the Voluntary Restructuring 
program was offered to employees, composed of unpaid 
leave and a voluntary resignation severance package. At 
TAM, 50% of the crewmembers adhered. This process was an important opportunity to integrate the 
human resources processes of the LATAM Airlines Group 
and to improve the dialogue with trade and labor unions 
in each country. Considering the high level of unionization 
found in a number of countries, such as Argentina, Chile, 
and Brazil, our relationship with these entities is key for 
the performance of the business. In our home markets 
– Argentina, Chile, Peru, Colombia, Ecuador, Brazil, and 
Paraguay – the internal audience is governed by collective 
bargaining agreements, which, at the end of 2013, either were 
in effect or had been renewed. At the end of the year, 31% of 
our employees were unionized. [G4-11]
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS38
VALUE CHAINWith the restructuring of the staff and the new definition 
of the Board of Directors of the LATAM Airlines Group, 
we started the integration of the areas, especially those 
associated with operations and corporate decision making. 
Some impacts, especially the cultural and language barriers 
between employees, are being managed in a number of 
positions and areas through the provision of Portuguese 
classes to Spanish-speaking employees and vice-versa. 
The integration effort is a part of a bigger plan, launched in 
2013: the generation of a new LATAM Airlines Group culture. 
We have started mapping the best practices in place at LAN 
and TAM and assessing the conduct and attributes that we 
would like to develop in our staff in various markets. This 
proposal should be completed and disclosed in the first half 
of 2014 under the coordination of the LATAM Airlines Group Culture Committee, which is formed by the members of the 
Executive Board of LATAM Airlines Group.
Hence, our long-term goal is the achievement of high 
performance, a result that is directly influenced by a 
good work environment and by efficient relationships 
with customers and partners. To support this process 
and to develop our performance management with 
succession perspectives and integrated career plans, we 
are developing a LATAM Airlines Group tool to measure 
the performance of all employees. Today, TAM and LAN 
have separate performance assessment processes.
In 2013, 32% of the men and 34% of the women in the 
LATAM Airlines Group underwent performance and career 
development evaluations (which is equivalent, respectively, to 10,237 male employees and 7,005 female employees), with 
an average of 33%. This indicator was affected because fewer employees underwent this evaluation at TAM (15% of TAM 
employees). The annual evaluation process does not consider employees who had been with the company for less than six 
months as of December 31, 2013, who were on medical leave of 
over 180 days, whose performance is not subject to evaluation, 
and command crew. Considering only those employees who 
are subject to evaluation, in 2013 the process covered 95% of 
the employees (the goal for the year was 90%). [G4-LA11]
Throughout the year, we conducted our first integrated 
organizational climate survey, which covered 71% of the 
internal audience of the LATAM Airlines Group. The results 
showed an average acceptance of the work environment, 
with a favorability of 58%. [G4-PR5]
We are committed to contributing to local 
development through our operations, distributed across more than 23 countries worldwide. In 2013, 
the rate of local hiring reached 97.38% for general 
employees and 79.73% for senior management.
Regarding our preference for local hiring, LATAM Airlines 
Group publishes all vacancies available on the company 
website and, whenever possible, in training centers, 
newspapers, local employment agencies, and others.Our definition of local employees considers their 
nationality and the country where they work: employees 
are considered local when they work in the region 
they were born. For hiring purposes, we understand 
the local community as the one located closest to the 
place of employment, such as region or municipality. 
 
The definition of senior managers for LATAM Airlines 
Group includes individuals with administrative and 
decision-making skills: CEO, Senior VP , VP , Senior Director, 
Director, Senior Manager, Manager, and Sub-manager.Local hiring [G4-EC6]
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS39
VALUE CHAINTraining and development
The internal audience of the LATAM Airlines Group is 
very diverse – employees come from over 50 different 
geographical areas. This is also expressed in the 
distribution of employees by operation, gender, and 
positions. To ensure the alignment of our practices, we 
instruct our employees to act according to the company's 
codes of ethics and conduct.LAN TAM LATAM AIRLINES GROUP
Operations 2,582 6,596 3,099 11,639 5,681 18,235
Support ( overhead ) 1,196 1,264 812 664 2,008 1,928
Operational support 688 1,548 733 1,467 1,421 3,015
Commercial support 957 862 491 399 1,448 1,261
Crew 3,046 3,026 3,624 3,691 6,670 6,717
Sales 1,865 644 1,325 584 3,190 1,228
Total 10,334 13,940 10,084 18,444 20,418 32,384EMPLOYEES BY 
EMPLOYEE CATEGORY
 [G4-10]
—
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS40
VALUE CHAINNUMBER OF RESIGNATIONS/
TERMINATIONS BY GENDER– 2013 [G4-LA1]
—
Male  5,132
Female  3,235NUMBER OF NEW  
HIRES BY GENDER – 2013 
—
Male 3,521
Female  2,086TURNOVER RATE  
BY GENDER (%) – 2013 
—
Male 15.85%
Female  15.84%
NUMBER OF NEW HIRES  BY AGE GROUP  – 2013 
—
Under 30  4,047
31–50 1,502
Over 50  58TURNOVER RATE  
BY AGE GROUP  (%) – 2013 
—
Under 30  21.52%
31–50 12.39%
Over 50  12.34%NUMBER OF RESIGNATIONS/
TERMINATIONS BY AGE GROUP – 2013
—
Under 30  4,308
31–50  3,646
Over 50 413
NUMBER OF RESIGNATIONS/
TERMINATIONS BY REGION – 2013
—NUMBER OF NEW HIRES  BY REGION – 2013
—TURNOVER RATE  
BY REGION (%)– 2013
—
Chile 1,564
Brazil 5,113  
Peru 424  
Argentina 107Chile 1,350
Brazil 2,413  
Peru 593  
Argentina 79Chile 14.14%
Brazil 20.11% 
Peru 11.16% 
Argentina 3.91%Colombia 174
Equador 484
International Businesses 144
Cargo Business 357Colombia 156
Equador 398
International Businesses 193
Cargo Business 425Colombia 10.22%
Equador 28.17%
International Businesses 7.27%
Cargo Business 8.14%Breakdown by country of employment, 
highlighting volumes by home market. 
Other  refers to employees elsewhere 
around the world.53%
Brazil
6%
Argentina23%
Chile7%
Peru3%
Ecuador4%
Colombia4%
OtherEMPLOYEES BY REGION AND MARKET
—
TURNOVER
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS41
VALUE CHAINThe restructuring of the Human Resources area 
will lead changes in career management. Presently, 
LAN has a development plan that uses growth and 
succession criteria for its employees, which was not 
done systematically at TAM. The adjustment of salaries 
and positions is at the core of this process, which 
is being implemented in both business units.
The companies offer a regular calendar for training 
and qualification to their employees, aiming to refresh 
their knowledge, to update processes, and to offer the best experience to customers. In 2013, we invested 
US$37,883,000 in internal courses and US$396,000 in the 
granting of 133 scholarships. [G4-LA10]
The company has corporate universities that offer online 
training courses about topics such as safety, leadership, and 
service excellence. The partnerships with universities and 
knowledge centers is another critical point, especially in 
markets where education falls short of what is required by 
the companies, such as in Chile and Peru, where the market 
is more restricted, with less competition. Currently, one of the main challenges of the company 
is the employee turnover rate. The average turnover 
rate for LATAM Airlines Group is 15%, especially in 
operational areas. In 2013, staff changes in Brazil 
due to the integration of LAN and TAM affected this 
indicator. Historically, our annual goal is an average 
rate of 10%, which can be readjusted or modified for 
2014 (an issue that is still under analysis). [G4-LA1]
Education and training  
LATAM Airlines Group 
– 2013 [G4-LA9]
Training hours *Managers Operations Support  
(overhead )Operational 
supportCommercial 
supportCrew Sales
= 2,150,749 1,142,498
1,008,251
2,150,749613,445
203,814
817,25959,961
60,227
120,18988,825
36,177
125,00263,282
69,296
132,578224,544283,878
508,42192,441
354,859
447,300
Total*  Only tr aining hours are 
included, since there are 
no records with the same 
criterion to identify the total 
number of participating 
employees at LAN (number of 
times an employee attended 
training) and at TAM (number 
of assistances).
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS42
VALUE CHAINIn 2013, 91% of the security employees were trained in 
human rights policies and procedures. At LAN, there are 
no specific courses on human rights; however, notions of 
proper treatment are provided, according to the AVESEC 
course. In our home markets, Venezuela provides training to 100% of its employees; the Ecuador and Colombia operations 
recorded lower rates (50% and 62%, respectively). At TAM, 
the Corporate Security team does not organize or take part in 
specific courses on the subject; however, the contractors that 
provide security services offer training to their employees, Training in  
human rights [G4-HR7]pursuant to Brazilian law, and refresher courses every 
two years. Since human rights are part of TAM's code of 
ethics, 100% of its employees are aware of this topic. There 
is also a leadership course that addresses harassment and 
discrimination. In 2013, 142 employees received this training. 
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS43
VALUE CHAINHealth and safety
Health and safety are the core values of LATAM Airlines 
Group and refer to the development of efficient and safe 
operations for our customers and for the society, as well as 
to the well-being of our employees. Our work on this topic 
includes five aspects: operational safety and corporate 
security, emergencies, audits, and occupational safety.
The operational safety pillar refers to ensuring 
the safety and the proper operation of all our 
flights in all phases, from maintenance to 
operation, including mapping of risks, technology 
adjustments, and efficiency and quality controls. 
In turn, corporate security refers to the prevention 
of illegal in-flight practices involving passengers, 
crews, ground teams, and airport facilities.For emergencies and audits, we operate in line with 
the authorities that regulate the industry and the 
markets in which we operate; to this effect, we highlight 
our partnership with the International Air Transport 
Association (IATA), which supports our periodic 
operational safety audits ( learn more on page 57 ). [G4-14]
Concerning occupational safety, the initiatives seek to 
prevent risks that are inherent to specific positions, such 
as the handling of parts, inputs, and equipment for 
maintenance operations and the risks related to flying, 
for crews. Currently, 100% of the internal audience is 
affected by the decisions made by the hygiene, health, and 
safety committees, which are broken down by region, in 
order to analyze each scenario and to identify requests 
for activities to ensure a safe internal environment. We periodically train new employees in topics pertaining 
to the enforcement of the guidelines established 
by the aviation authorities; likewise, we have a 
calendar of training courses on in-flight safety, on 
the correct use of personal protective equipment and 
hearing protection, and ergonomics, among others. 
Employees holding specific positions are 
trained in first aid and in firefighting, which 
is also offered to the community.
Finally, since 2012 we have been applying the 
Psychological First Aid (PAP) program to help employees 
handle emergencies and work in conjunction with 
local authorities, fire departments, and other support 
institutions in incidents such as aviation accidents. Benefits  [G4-LA2]
The benefits offered at the LATAM Airlines Group 
comply with our general remuneration policy – which 
includes fixed salary, performance-related pay, and 
benefits – and are in line with the market. We are 
currently analyzing a way to improve our competitive 
position in the Brazilian market.The benefits we currently offer at the four business units 
(Spanish speaking countries, Domestic Brazilian Market, 
International Business, and Cargo) include food vouchers, 
transportation allowance, life insurance, health plan, 
coverage for impairment/disability, parental leave, pension 
funds, and child care assistance.
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS44
VALUE CHAINIn 2013, LAN launched the new version of its Safety, 
Quality, and Environment Policy. With the commitment 
to meeting the highest operational standards in its flights 
and administrative activities, this document addresses 
international regulatory compliance and reinforces safety 
as one of the non-negotiable values of the company and 
of its employees, highlighting communications pertaining 
to risks, actions, and unsafe conditions, which must be 
put into practice by teams during any and all exposure. 
Another highlight of this policy is the proposal for the 
development of a management system that allows goals, 
objectives, and resources to be reviewed, implementing 
best practices and adding value to all stakeholders. 
Some units, such as TAM MRO, in São Carlos (SP), have 
their own occupational health, safety, and environment 
policy to cover local specificities, highlighting aspects of 
the activities associated with maintenance, repair, and 
inspection of aircraft and their components and focusing 
on environmental controls and incident prevention.In 2013, our occupational safety result (consolidated LAN 
+ TAM) was 371 accidents, which was a decrease from 2012. 
The injury severity index recorded was 3.02, which was also 
lower than the previous year. [G4-LA6]
There are company employees who are involved in 
professional activities that offer high rates of risks of 
diseases in the maintenance process, such as exposure 
to particulate matter, solvents, noise, UV radiation, 
and vibrations while working at airports (exposure 
to noise and vibration). We have assistance programs 
for serious diseases that provide employees with 
educational and training actions; advisory programs 
(Management Body of Work Accidents Social Security - 
Security Mutual ); risk prevention and control programs, such as the qualitative and quantitative assessment 
of health risks; and treatment programs, such as the 
Epidemiological Surveillance Program. [G4-LA7]
In terms of safety, we have not registered any aviation accidents 
at LAN in 22 years. At TAM, no severe accidents have occurred 
since 2007. In September 2013, TAM's flight JJ 8065, which 
operated in the Madrid-Guarulhos (São Paulo) route, had to 
make an emergency landing at the Fortaleza Airport, in Ceará, 
due to severe turbulence. In this incident, passengers and 
crewmembers were injured and received medical assistance 
after landing. The case was investigated by the Aviation 
Accident Investigation and Prevention Center (CENIPA), 
an agency related to the Brazilian Air Force Command; it 
was rated as an aviation accident without any fatalities.
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP HEALTH AND SAFETY 
INDICATORS [G4-LA6]
—2012 2013
Employees + Contractors Employees + Contractors
Total number of accidents 876 369
Injury severity rate 4.08 2.96
Total rate of occupational diseases 0.12 0.16
Total number of lost days 4.405* 5766
Total absenteeism rate 47.89* 50.18
Total fatalities for the period  
(report reason: accidents at work or while commuting)2** 0*  Data for LAN only
** Data for TAM only
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS45
VALUE CHAINSOCIETY
Contribution to local 
development and the control 
of negative impacts are among 
our initiatives to expand the 
generation of social valueThe LATAM Airlines Group has been working to expand the 
creation of value in the various regions and locations where 
it operates. Given the nature of its business, it is responsible 
for a number of positive impacts – such as the generation 
of employment opportunities and the promotion of tourism 
and local economies – and of adverse impacts, such as the 
generation of noise and emissions that affect the quality of 
the life of the population residing near airports.
Aware of this scenario, we have implemented a number 
of initiatives that involve the management of social and 
environmental impacts, the strengthening of relationships, 
and the contribution – through investments, concessions, and partnerships – to promote greater connectivity between the regions where we are present. This is in line with our 
strategic pillars (
learn more on page 20 ) and with the nature 
of the sustainability challenges in the airline industry. 
Our relationship with surrounding communities, civil 
society organizations, and other audiences is coordinated 
at LAN by the Board of Institutional Relations and 
Corporate Social Responsibility; at TAM by the Board of 
Institutional Relations and Sustainability; and in the cargo 
business by the Sub-management Area for Corporate 
Matters and Corporate Social Responsibility. Through 
constant dialogue and the independent management 
of each unit, we can operate pursuant to local needs in 
relation to various topics, such as sustainable tourism, organ and wildlife transportation, and financial support 
for social and environmental projects.
During the development of the LATAM Airlines Group 
Materiality Matrix, we identified that a number of topics 
deemed strategic for the company involve the appropriate 
management of their impacts on society and, consequently, 
on the environment. Thus we believe that some aspects, such 
as fostering of sustainable tourism, control of emissions and noise, and pursuit of technological solutions in the area 
of fuels, have a cross-divisional effect on our company and 
should be prioritized in our practices and relationships. 
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS46
VALUE CHAINOur impacts  [G4-SO2]
Among the potential or actual adverse social impacts 
concerning the proximity of our operations, we identified 
aspects such as the lack of connectivity due to the shutdown 
or the interruption of passenger or cargo activities, especially 
in destinations where the LATAM Airlines Group is the sole 
operator (such as on Easter and Chiloé Islands, in Chile).  
Air quality and noise generation issues in the vicinity 
of airports are clear examples of the social and 
environmental implications of our operation. Given 
the constant movement of aircraft in the surroundings 
of or within urban centers – such as at the Congonhas 
Airport, located in São Paulo, Brazil, and at the Newark 
Airport, located in the surroundings of New York, United 
States – we understand that our commitment to the 
environment must also be translated into improvements that affect the society´s quality of life.. There are carbon 
dioxide emissions across virtually the entire country and the generation of hazardous waste is concentrated 
in cities where maintenance services are provided.
In 2013, we maintained our investment plan for the  
renewal of our fleet and made advances in the industry-
specific dialogue about the development of biofuels with a second commercial flight operated by LAN Colombia.  
This practice represents a path to reduce air 
emissions. We also expanded the reach of our Smart 
Fuel and Lean Fuel programs with actions to reduce 
energy consumption and with more efficient engine 
washing processes (
learn more on page 72 ).
Noise is equally relevant: under the coordination 
of ANAC, in Brazil, TAM manages and controls the acoustic impacts of its aircraft on urban centers. The 
same happens in Argentina, under the control of the 
government authority. In Colombia, LAN only operates 
with aircraft approved for Category 3 noise limits, a 
national standard. In Chile, LAN already complies with 
the restrictions established in these future standards to 
be implemented ( learn more on page 77 ).
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS47
VALUE CHAINWhat we do  [G4-SO1, G4-EC7]
LATAM Airlines Group has corporate responsibility and 
social and service investment fronts, which seek to leverage 
public benefits to help enable our proposal of fostering 
connectivity between people and regions. Our challenge lies 
in the generation of the lowest possible negative impact and 
in the reinforcement of positive impacts, which are managed 
according to the local needs. However, these practices are 
not systematized and integrated in all countries, and these impacts cannot be measured directly. 
In partnership with volunteers of LAN, authorities, and local 
schools in Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Argentina, we 
have developed the Caring for my Destination program, in 
which students and community members work together to 
restore public areas of interest, monuments, and/or important 
buildings in their cities. As a part of the program, students and 
authorities attend training lectures on tourism, environmental, and local culture awareness, which seek to foster responsible 
tourism and the Latin American historical and cultural 
heritage. In addition, local tour entrepreneurs are invited to attend training lectures on best practices, which aim to 
promote sustainability in their operations. Since its creation, 
this program has been developed in 17 locations, with the 
participation of over 2,000 students and volunteers of LAN. 
In Chile, there were three editions of the program in 2013, 
involving 210 students and 18 volunteers of the company, 
with actions on Easter Island (restoration of Playa Pea), 
Punta Arenas (restoration of Parque Avenida Bulnes), and 
Coyhaique (restoration of Plaza de la Prensa). Also in Chile, LAN established a partnership with Programa de 
Innovación en Turismo Sostenible, a project that aims to 
improve competitiveness in the tourism industry, reducing the 
discrepancy in information related to sustainability. Through 
this partnership, 15 seminars and workshops on sustainable tourism were held in nine regions in Chile, with a total of 
approximately 800 participants. In Chile, LAN also organizes 
projects involving care for the environment and social actions, 
including the support to institutions such as 
Un Techo para 
mi País , América Solidaria , Coaniquem  and Teletón , among 
others, and help for organ transportation in flights. In Ecuador, LAN organizes a version of Caring for 
my Destination, developed with volunteers of the 
company on Tourism Day, and the Toqué el Cielo con 
LAN  project (LAN Kids), which seeks to familiarize 
children with aviation through their first flight to 
a tourist attraction in their city of destination.
In Peru, development programs include Chicos que 
Sueñan, Chicos que vueLAN , which offers lectures to foster 
awareness and understanding about the environment and 
reputation monitoring practices, donations to institutions, 
and humanitarian aid. In 2014, we aim to have an analysis 
ready before the editions of the Caring for my Destination 
program in order to better understand local needs.
In Colombia, Caring for my Destination was carried out in 
2013, in Girón and Santa Fe de Antioquia, where the main 
park in the municipality and the Acequia del Llano were 
renovated, respectively. In this country, through an agreement, 
we donated air tickets to the Operación Sonrisa Colombia  
foundation (US$47,722) to enable the travel of volunteer experts 
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS48
VALUE CHAINto perform surgeries and to rehabilitate children born with 
cleft lip and palate. For 2014, our objectives include bringing 
together 150 volunteers of the company for two editions 
of Caring for my Destination, to donate 400 air tickets to 
Operación Sonrisa Colombia , and to establish an agreement 
with another foundation, among other actions.
The main programs in Argentina are Caring for my 
Destination, Todos Podemos Volar  (a flight experience for students attending public municipal schools), corporate 
volunteerism and environmental education actions, 
recycling and waste sorting, solidarity campaigns, and 
humanitarian aid actions.
At TAM, support for sustainable tourism, environment, 
and citizenship has been provided since 2010 through 
the Bids to Support Social and Environmental Projects, 
which has already served 22 projects of national and 
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS49
VALUE CHAINinternational organizations. Since 2010, over 186,000 
people have benefitted. In 2012, the call for bid registered 
over 200 applications and selected five projects, which 
received the support in the following year and were 
executed by the following organizations: Instituto 
Peabiru, Instituto de Pesquisas Ecológicas (IPÊ), Projeto 
Tamar, Ecomar, and Associação Movimento Mecenas 
da Vida. In 2013, approximately 11,230 people benefitted from the actions by various NGOs. The Brazilian company 
also offers tickets to a number of NGOs and local 
institutions. In 2013, over 1,100 tickets were granted. 
* For this indicator, we considered the operations in line with 
indicator G4-EC9: International Business Unit; Domestic Brazilian 
Market (TAM); LAN; and Cargo Unit.SOCIAL IMPACT MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS* [ G4-SO1]
—LATAM
Social impact assessments 0%
Environmental impact assessments and continuous monitoring 100%
Public disclosure of environmental and social impact assessments 100%
Community programs for local development based on local needs 50%
Stakeholder engagement plan based on the map of priority stakeholders 75%
Committees or groups for public inquiry (community), based on local communities and 
processes that include vulnerable groups 0%
Occupational health and safety boards or committees and other institutions 100%
Formal processes for complaints or dialogue and advocating for local communities 100%
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS50
VALUE CHAINConcerning investments in services for public benefit, 
LATAM Airlines Group makes donations in kind or of tickets 
in its business units and supports NGOs that develop 
projects for environmental responsibility, education, and 
conservation; health; psychosocial treatment and support for 
children and patients; and other issues (see table). Corporate 
investments in the operational structure are also translated 
into benefits for customers and members of the community. One such example of this is the Santiago international airport 
in Chile, which faces saturation problems. In 2013, LAN 
implemented a remodeling project that created 13 new slots 
for Airbus A320, with an investment of US$5 million. In Brazil, 
TAM also launched a new cargo terminal in Manaus and 
installed new Ground Support Equipment (GSE) in Guarulhos, 
Florianópolis, and Vitória.In benefit  
of communities [G4-EC7]
Business UnitTotal investment  
(US$ or tickets)Type of 
engagementProjects Expected impacts
TAMOver  
1,100 passengersPro bonoSocial Entrepreneur Award; WWF-Brasil; Ashoka; Fundação Amazonas 
Sustentável; Instituto Rodrigo Mendes; Amigos do Bem; and others> Environmental conservation, education, and prevention> Cultural exchanges> Protection of labor and human rights
> Connectivity in health and education projects
US$152,000  
(approximately) In kindCO₂ Neutral Tourism; Eco-tourism in the surroundings of the Monte 
Alegre State Park; Learning to Care for the Sea and the Sea Turtles (Tamar); 
Conservation of the tucuxi on Pipa Beach (RN); and others
LAN CHILEUS$193,685 Commercial Caring for my Destination > Support for sustainable tourism> Psychosocial development of children
>  Support for the tr ansportation of patients, volunteers,  
and people who cannot pay for tickets
> Elimination of poverty in precarious communitiesUS$227,392 Commercial Un día en LAN
607 tickets Pro bonoAmérica Solidária; Toqué el Cielo; Coaniquem; fundação María Ayuda; 
Programa Innovación para el Turismo Sostenible
LAN ECUADOR US$67,130Pro bono “Toqué el Cielo” Project with LAN > Support for sustainable tourism> Environmental and tourism awareness and education
Commercial Caring for my Destination
LAN ARGENTINAUS$ 67,130 mil CommercialTodos Podemos Volar; Caring for my Destination; Corporate Volunteerism; 
Investment in the development of environmental management> Support for sustainable tourism
> Environmental and tourism awareness and education> Creation of an integrated environmental management system
 US$1,330 In kind Agreements to benefit NGOs
LAN PERUUS$70,200 Commercial Caring for my Destination; Chicos que Sueñan, Chicos que Vuelan> Support for sustainable tourism> Environmental and tourism awareness and education
1,480 tickets Pro bono Operación Sonrisa, Humanitarian Aid, Unicef, San Juan de Dios
LAN COLOMBIAUS$105,785 CommercialCaring for my Destination; Corporate Volunteerism/ Right  
and Duties Campaign> Support for sustainable tourism> Environmental and tourism awareness and education
> Awareness about the rights and duties of passengers
276 tickets Pro bono Operación Sonrisa>  Support for the tr ansportation of volunteer specialists and 
organizers for child rehabilitation actionsMAIN INFRASTRUCTURE AND SERVICE  
INVESTMENTS FOR PUBLIC BENEFIT [G4-EC7]
—
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS51
VALUE CHAINEconomic impacts, connectivity, and  
sustainable tourism [G4-EC8]
We understand that our presence can foster local 
development where we operate. The new routes created/
announced in the last two years (such the Belém-Miami, 
at TAM, and the Santiago-Aruba or the Santiago-Chiloé, 
at LAN) are directly related to our proposal of expanding 
connectivity while generating employment opportunities 
and income in Latin America. 
Studies conducted by the World Travel & Tourism Council 
(WTTC), such as the “Economic Impact of Travel & Tourism” (
learn more here ), highlight the role of tourism in the 
development of local economies, especially in the creation 
of tourist routes and supply chains of goods and services 
geared toward visitors. In the specific context of airlines, LATAM Airlines Group's 
current impact is a good example. Considering that we 
carry 4.1 million foreign passengers each year to the main 
destinations in South America and the estimates and 
calculations developed by various tourism institutions 
for the average amount spent by tourists in the region, 
we estimate we annually contribute with the injection 
of US$4.3 billion into the tourism industry. This figure 
includes the amounts spent by tourists in airports, 
lodging, food, transportation, sightseeing, and shopping.
In partnership with governmental agencies, tour operators, 
and other business partners, we seek to foster tourism 
activities, having a direct effect on the tax revenues of 
municipalities, states, and other locations in the region. One 
of the most important initiatives in this sense is the Discover program, organized by LATAM Airlines Group in its main 
home markets in South America, which aims to visit and 
learn about destinations, in addition to developing a closer 
relationship between the receptive commercial chain and a 
large group of international operators in our network.
Through visits from these business partners to the 
destinations where we operate, we believe that we 
collaborate to improve sales experience and to affect the 
generation of employment opportunities and income in 
locations where tourism is an economic source. In 2013, in 
addition to the initiatives developed by LAN in Chile and in 
Colombia, we established a partnership with the Brazilian 
Tourism Board (EMBRATUR) and the Brazilian government 
through the Discover Brazil program. Considering the major 
events that will be held in the country – the World Cup in 
Since 2013, LAN has been using a measurement tool 
called Termômetro da Opinião Pública  (Public Opinion 
Thermometer). This study seeks to understand how we 
are perceived by society in terms of our economic, social, environmental, and business performance. This tool About our reputation 
[G4-EC8]allows us to identify what the communities where we 
operate value the most in the company. This study was 
implemented in Chile in 2013, and in 2014 we intend to implement it in the other countries where LAN is present.
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS52
VALUE CHAIN2014 and the Olympics in 2016 – over 80 tour operators from 
20 countries were invited to visit the main destinations 
and to take part in business meetings with local agents. 
Ten Brazilian states were visited in four different tours. 
Adding this initiative to Discover in Chile and in Colombia, 
LATAM Airlines Group, the governments, and other local 
partners invested over US$1 million in this project.
Cargo is another business that brings opportunities 
and risks in terms of our economic impact. With a large 
potential to foster foreign trade in Latin America, the 
Cargo Unit leverages the expertise of LAN CARGO, TAM Cargo (Brazil), MasAir (Mexico), and LAN CARGO Colombia to ensure leadership in the coverage of cargo 
services that connect the region to North America, Europe, and, indirectly, Asia. Transportation of inputs, industrial 
production, and other goods capable of generating an 
inflow of foreign currency to countries demonstrate the impact we can generate in local economies.
For 2014, the cargo division expects to implement its 
Stakeholder Relations Plan, which includes communities in 
most areas where we operate. This will enable us to be well- 
prepared for potential conflicts, to understand their needs, 
and to establish direct channels with leaders of groups and 
organizations. [G4-SO2]
As a result of the impacts that we generate on Latin American economies, we take into account the relevance 
of sustainable tourism – that is, tourism that fosters social and economic development while safeguarding 
local cultural heritage and natural resources – as a 
priority topic for the LATAM Airlines Group. [G4-14]
We also have specific initiatives in place in the business 
area that allows us to expand the positive impact we have 
on local economies. Regarding suppliers, for example, 
LAN was awarded with the ProPyme seal by the Chilean 
government, which acknowledges large companies that 
are committed to paying their small and medium-sized 
suppliers in less than 30 days (
learn more on page 60 ).
Recently created, Club LATAM is a platform developed 
especially for travel agents and tour operators in Brazil, 
with the purpose of boosting sales and delivering unique 
experiences to this target audience. Over 200 of LATAM 
Airlines Group's major customers attended the launch 
of this initiative in São Paulo in order to understand 
the proposal presented to strengthen relationships and Club LATAM stimulate the achievement of better results in the sales 
of TAM and LAN tickets. Relationship, communication, 
training, management, and recognition activities will be 
carried out to support achievement of goals, which are 
expected to reach 200 million passengers carried by 2020. 
Learn more on our microsite: www.clublatam.com.br . 
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS53
VALUE CHAINSupport for transportation  [G4-SO1, G4-EC7]
Since 2002, LAN has transported kidneys for transplants, 
free of charge, through a partnership established with 
Corporación del Transplante in Chile. By the end of 2013, 
we had carried 185 organs to different regions of the country 
– an average of 17 organs per year.
Since 2001, through a partnership with the Brazilian Ministries 
of Health and Defense, TAM has adopted the same procedure, 
transporting various types of organs, including corneas and 
bones. In 10 years, we have carried 6,000 organs on our aircraft. 
To expedite this process, in 2013 we created a direct channel 
to serve the Brazilian National Transplant Center (CNT). Both companies have policies that govern the granting of 
tickets to NGOs and institutions. At the corporate level, LAN 
provides annual support to two NGOs whose operations 
require the transportation of volunteers in South America. In 
other Spanish speaking markets, there are specific grants in 
place for foundations and organizations.
TAM supports organizations that work with topics associated 
with sustainability, such as environmental preservation, 
citizenship, and human rights protection. The company also 
carries wildlife for repatriation; this work is free of charge, in 
partnership with the Brazilian Institute for the Environment 
and Renewable Natural Resources (IBAMA).LATAM Airlines Group's cargo business has policies in 
force to protect the transportation of animals and to 
support their rescue and repatriation. Moreover, through 
the Avião Solidário  initiative, the company supports 
the transportation of humanitarian aid in emergency 
and disaster situations and provides consistent help to 
countries where it operates.
In terms of connectivity, another action is the 
transportation of works of art to and from Latin 
America, crossing borders and bridging gaps 
between different cultures. In 2013, these initiatives 
enabled the cargo unit of the LATAM Airlines 
Group to transport over 250 tons of solidarity.
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS54
VALUE CHAINGOVERNMENTS  
AND INSTITUTIONS
Dialogue with authorities 
and industry-specific entities 
allows us to comply with public 
regulations and policies in effect in the markets where we operateThe relationships that we establish with government 
agencies and industry-specific entities in the various 
markets where we are present allow us to play an active 
role in public discussions related to our business. 
Always defending transparent dialogue and the pursuit of joint 
solutions that focus on efficiency and profitability, the company 
has teams that are responsible for monitoring and taking 
part in debates. Because of the merger, we face the challenge 
of working in an integrated manner in the relationships we 
maintain with political and industry-specific agents in a number 
of locations, considering their local specificities.
To maintain dialogue with government agencies and 
authorities, the LATAM Airlines Group has structured 
the areas of Public Affairs, Institutional Relations, and Corporate Affairs, which are distributed between LAN, TAM, 
and the LATAM Airlines Group S.A. holding. This team has 
the objective of allowing business growth pursuant to local 
laws and the government plans for the airline industry.
Among the main institutions with which we maintain 
relationships, we highlight the aviation authorities of 
each country, such as the Junta Aeronáutica de Chile; 
the General Civil Aviation Department of Chile, Peru, 
and Ecuador; the Agência Nacional de Aviação Civil of 
Brazil; the Administración Nacional de Aviación Civil 
of Argentina; the Dirección Nacional de Aviación Civil of Paraguay; the Departamento Administrativo de la 
Aviación Civil of Colombia; and the public and private 
agencies of the main airports where we operate. At the 
same time, we maintain a regular agenda of dialogue with authorities of the legislative branch and retain 
consulting companies that specialize in monitoring affairs 
and bills that could affect the company in the future.
In addition to discussing regulatory affairs, we 
propose joint business solutions to authorities. In 
2013, for example, an effort made by our Brazilian 
Regulatory Affairs area allowed for tax cuts in 
Brazilian states (such as for ICMS – tax charged on 
operations pertaining to the transportation of goods 
and on the provision of interstate and intermunicipal 
transportation and communication services) to enable 
new flights and routes at more competitive prices.
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS55
VALUE CHAINIn Chile and in other markets, we also operate in 
partnership with governments in order to study 
routes and flights that allow for the generation of 
tourism, jobs, and income in locations where the 
company did not previously operate. We also seek 
to obtain certifications from regulatory agencies in 
order to consolidate processes and innovations, as 
in 2013 in the United States, where we are being 
authorized by the Federal Aviation Administration 
(FAA) to conduct an engine washing process that is 
safer and that produces less environmental impact. 
We have also established dialogues with authorities 
to control any potential risks to our operation.
We have sought to strengthen our participation in 
agencies that represent the aviation industry. Globally, 
we act through the International Air Transport Association (IATA), which is key for the exchange 
of information about new technologies, operational 
safety, and the current and future challenges in the 
aviation industry. Regionally, we are members of the 
Latin American and Caribbean Air Transport Association 
(ALTA). The markets where we operate also have specific 
associations ( see table ). [G4-16]
To ensure a good relationship with representatives of the 
government and associations, we use the LATAM codes of 
conduct as a reference. As part of our compliance program, 
we have been developing a schedule of training courses on 
governance and ethics.
Throughout the year, LATAM Airlines Group received 
US$28.783 million in government subsidies – which are not 
part of LATAM Airlines Group's shareholding structure. For this indicator, we gathered information on fuel consumption, 
which accounts for 40% of the company costs. This subsidy 
mainly refers to tax cuts in specific locations, which result from 
negotiations with authorities and aim to boost the development 
of operations. In 2014, LATAM Airlines Group has the objective 
of collecting data about incentives related to employee training 
and hiring. [G4-EC4]
Strategic partnerships [G4-16]
International Air Transport Association 
(IATA)
Global Compactoneworld
Latin American and Caribbean Air 
Transport Association (ALTA)World Tourism Organization  
(UNWTO)
Sustainable  
Aviation  
Fuel Users  
Group (SAFUG)
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS56
VALUE CHAINIATA: joint development      
[G4-16, G4-EC2]LAN made advances in 2013. Since 2011, the company, in 
conjunction with seven other airlines, made a commitment 
to IATA for the development of the volunteer IENVA 
program (IATA Environmental Assessment), a system that 
will assess and improve the environmental management 
of the industry. One of the main advances was the launch, 
in 2013, of LAN's Safety, Quality, and Environment Policy, 
signed by its CEO, Ignacio Cueto, which describes the 
responsibility and actions to be taken by teams and leaders 
(learn more in the Health and Safety section, page 44 ). Our strategy of being one of the best airlines in 
the world is closely related to our engagement at 
IATA, to which we are affiliated as LATAM Airlines 
Group. We are presently members of a number of 
committees in this entity, such as the Operation 
Committee, through which we exchange knowledge 
with companies from other regions and influence the 
definition of industry-specific goals and guidelines.
Consequently, our business units, especially in Brazil and 
Chile, undergo the IATA Operational Safety Audit (IOSA) and the IATA Safety Audit for Ground Operations (ISAGO). 
Furthermore, we have obtained the IATA certifications  
that ensure the quality of our maintenance centers. 
We have been playing an active role in climate 
change forums held by the airline industry. As a company, we have incorporated IATA 's commitment 
to reducing our emissions by 1.5% yearly, expecting 
to reach a carbon-neutral level by 2020 and then 
reduce our emissions by 50% by 2050, when 
compared with the baseline year of 2005.
Brazil
> Brazilian Airline Association (Abear)
>  American Chamber of Commer ce  
for Brazil (Amcham Brasil)> Chilean Airline Association (ACHILA)
>  Chilean P eruvian Chamber of Commerce
>  Chilean Ar gentine Chamber of Commerce 
> Chilean Brazilian Chamber of Commerce (CBC)
>  N orth American Chilean Chamber  
of Commerce (AmCham)
> Spanish Official Chamber of Commerce in Chile
> Chilean Federation of Industry (ICARE)
>  Fedetur
> Santiago Chamber of Commerce>  Ar gentine Business Council for Sustainable  
Development (CEADS)
> Institute for Corporate Development in Argentina (IDEA)> Argentine Brazilian Chamber of CommerceChile Argentina Peru
> National Chamber of Tourism (CANATUR)> Peruvian Trade Association (COMEX)> Chilean Peruvian Chamber of Commerce
> AmCham Peru (AmCham)
> National Chamber of Tourism (CANATUR)
> Peruvian Trade Association (COMEX)
> Chilean Peruvian Chamber of Commerce
> AmCham Peru (AmCham)> Asociación de Transporte Aéreo  Colombiano
> Asociación Colombiana de Viajes Y Turismo (ANTAO)
> Global Compact
> International Air Transport Association (IATA)
>  L atin American and Caribbean Air Transport  
Association (ALTA)
> World Tourism Organization (UNWTO)Ecuador Colombia
Global / regionalAssociations and 
institutions LATAM Airlines 
Group [G4-16]
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS57
VALUE CHAINSUPPLIERS
One of the challenges of our 
business model: supply chain 
management gained force in 
2013 through mapping of risksWith over 25,000 active suppliers in its records, the LATAM 
Airlines Group sees major opportunities in the relationship 
it maintains with its business partners. In addition to the 
positive impact that we can generate on local economies 
through the promotion of economic development and the 
generation of employment opportunities and income in the 
regions where we operate, we manage and control potential 
risks across our supply chain; currently, this action is our 
main management challenge. [G4-12]
Aiming at developing a closer and more focused 
relationship with suppliers, we have divided our chain 
into four major categories: aircraft (manufacturers of 
aircraft and engines); materials and fuels (aircraft-
related equipment and technologies, as well as fuels, for 
ground and air operations); in-flight services (food and 
catering, utensils, and energy); and general goods and services, which include everything from computers and 
information technology to uniforms, lodging, and ground 
transportation for employees. [G4-12]
The two first groups are classified as direct suppliers, 
associated with the supply of inputs that are critical for the 
company's core business activities, while the other two are called indirect suppliers (that support the operation). Most 
partners are in the second group, while most of the value 
traded relates to direct suppliers. [G4-12] 
Relationships with these companies are concentrated in our Procurement areas at TAM and LAN, which currently work 
in an integrated manner. Since the merger and under the 
coordination of the Compliance department, efforts have 
been made to develop guidelines to manage commercial 
practices with a focus on full conformity of businesses.As a main result, we completed our Procurement Policy in 
2013. The document contains the clauses and principles 
that govern our relationship with suppliers, covering the topics ethics, conduct, and human rights and addressing 
aspects such as bonded or child labor, work conditions, 
anti-corruption practices, and social and environmental 
responsibility. The work also resulted in the creation of new 
clauses that are included in the standard agreements of the company, which provide on topics of sustainability and 
human rights. A Statement of Commitment, which must 
be signed by companies, is attached to standard services 
agreements to confirm their acceptance of the LATAM 
Airlines Group compliance guidelines. [G4-56]
Our relationship with the commercial partners located in 
the markets where we operate allows us to contribute to the 
social and economic development of Latin America. In 2013, 
55%* of our spending with suppliers corresponded to local 
companies; this procurement category includes agreements 
with the market of suppliers of the country where the LATAM Airlines Group unit is located. This percentage 
considers the relevant operating units of LAN (Chile, Peru, 
Colombia, Argentina, and Ecuador) and TAM (Brazil only). 
Purchases whose scope is limited to local needs, with 
no synergy of specification with other subsidiaries, are 
directed to the local market.For local development 
[G4-EC8, G4-EC9]
* Refers only to Procurement purchases (not including fleet and technical supply purchases).
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS58
VALUE CHAINWe understand that the adequate management of the 
supply chain requires an in-depth understanding of the 
risks inherent in the commercial relationship. After all, any 
nonconformity related to our business partners may affect 
our performance. Hence, in 2013 we implemented a pilot 
program for the social and environmental identification 
and screening of suppliers, which considers data on the 
fiscal and labor aspects of our indirect suppliers, with 
which we maintain most of our agreements. [G4-2]
This process, which in 2013 focused on TAM operations, 
resulted in the assessment and categorization of a base of 
4,113 suppliers, which corresponds to 54% of the company 
spending with its supply chain of indirect purchases (not 
including fleets, technical purchases, and fuels); that is, 
approximately US$ 2.1 billion annually. For this group, 
which is divided into 13 categories (such as water and 
waste, textiles, apparel, transportation, and logistics), we conducted a risk classification process, considering 
the size, nature, and relevance of the business, among 
other criteria. We arrived at a number of 87 suppliers 
that presented high criticality and that have potential 
to generate adverse social impacts, which should be the 
focus of our management in the coming years.  
[G4-SO2, G4-SO10]
This analysis resulted in a number of actions, such as the 
preparation of supplier manuals and the use of questionnaires 
in a survey, with a view to the future auditing of suppliers 
with greater criticality. Those suppliers who do not agree may 
either have their agreements terminated or be required to 
comply with an adaptation plan, whose terms will be defined 
according to the criticality of each case. In 2013, no agreements 
were terminated (0% of the base of suppliers was assessed), 
given the current phase of the program, and no improvements 
were agreed upon (0% of the base). [G4-SO10]Currently, the potentially adverse social impacts identified 
in the supply chain are as follows: degrading working 
conditions (potential risk involving apparel suppliers); 
health and safety related to nutrition (risk involving 
catering service companies); physical safety (risk involving 
the mobilization and accommodation of crewmembers and 
passengers); responsible products (risk involving giveaways 
and inducements offered in-flight). [G4-SO10]
Going forward with the program, the same process 
will be applied in other operating units. This model 
has already been implemented at TAM, where in 
2014 we intend to analyze 87 cases of suppliers that 
offer potential risk, and which will be extended to 
LAN in 2014 for suppliers in Chile. Starting in 2016, 
this program will be implemented in other units 
of the LATAM Airlines Group in Peru, Colombia, 
Argentina, Ecuador, and Paraguay. [G4-SO10]
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS59
VALUE CHAINAs a part of our commitment to responsible business 
relationships, we received the ProPyme seal from the Chilean 
government in 2013. This initiative recognizes companies that 
commit to paying their small and medium-sized suppliers 
in less than 30 days. Eighty major organizations already 
participate in the project, benefitting 94,000 small and 
medium-sized companies in Chile.Timely payments 
[G4-EC8, G4-15]In order to achieve this result, the LATAM Airlines 
Group conducted a series of adjustments in its internal 
procurement process. At LAN, the rate of compliance with 
the 30-day payment deadline went from 46% in January 
2013 to 98% in August of the same year.This measure resulted in the development of the LATAM 
Airlines Group Policy for Payments to Suppliers, which 
focuses on indirect procurement partners (goods and 
services) and establishes a 30-day deadline (Chile) or a 
60-day deadline (other markets) for payments.
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS60
VALUE CHAINSHAREHOLDERS 
AND INVESTORS
With communication that is 
more transparent and integrated 
with the market, we disclose 
our investments, results, and 
business risksA year and a half after the creation of the LATAM 
Airlines Group, we have advanced in the integration of 
our activities and in the consolidated communication of financial information, especially since the second 
quarter of 2013. We have been able to structure a solid 
platform so that, starting in 2014, our operations 
become more predictable and stable for investors, who 
are strategic for the company's business model.
Faced with challenges such as business complexity, 
cultural differences between companies, and balance 
between costs and revenues, LATAM Airlines Group is 
currently developing a process to increase the volume 
and the quality of the information reported to the market. In 2013, one of the advances was the disclosure of the 
consolidated operating margin, which is crucial for 
analysts, and the clarification of our risk management, 
which is a cross-divisional corporate topic that is being 
handled by a specific sub-management area from the 
Finance department.
For the second consecutive year, the LATAM Airlines Group 
has featured in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) 
in the Emerging Markets section. This participation is the 
recognition of our efforts to manage the company with a 
long-term vision, ensuring a successful present and future.
In 2013, the credit rating agency Standard & Poor's (S&P) assigned LATAM Airlines Group a BB+ rating, while 
Fitch assigned a BB rating. These ratings relate to 
the difficulties posed by LATAM Airlines Group's 
operational performance at the end of the period 
assessed (2012). We believe that this scenario is 
likely to change due to the results posted in 2013 
and especially to the increase of US$1 billion in the 
capital stock of the company, which was approved 
after the ratings and enabled part of the investment 
plan established for the coming years, which 
focuses on the renewal and optimization of the fleet 
(
learn more on page 21 ) and should strengthen our 
positioning in the industry.
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS61
VALUE CHAINCommunication and relationship
We prioritize clarity and transparency in the reporting 
of LATAM Airlines Group's consolidated data. To this 
end, we constantly update the investor and shareholder 
relations channel with financial and governance 
information, provided in English, Portuguese, and 
Spanish: http://www.latamairlinesgroup.net .
The website offers relevant materials for analysis 
and monitoring, such as annual reports, quarterly and annual results, information reported to financial 
regulatory agencies in the market, updated share prices, 
and estimated gains. For direct service, there is a specific area in Chile that is responsible for investor relations 
(investor.relations@lan.com). The area periodically holds shareholder meetings and sends communications, 
which are available on the IR website.
Shares and dividends  [G4-EC1]
LATAM Airlines Group S.A. is traded at the New York 
Stock Exchange (under ticker LFL), at the Santiago Stock 
Exchange (under ticker LAN), and at BM&FBovespa 
(under ticker LATM11). In December 2013, the preemptive 
rights offering of 62 million primary shares was completed, 
generating proceeds of approximately US$784 million. In 
total, 96.4% of shares were subscribed and fully paid in at 
US$15.17 per share (to learn more about shares and prices, 
click here), and started being traded at the beginning of 
2014. Learn more about LATAM Airlines Group's capital 
structure on page 16.Concerning the dividends of LATAM Airlines Group, we 
maintain what was established in our financial policy: 
the distribution of 30% of the profit, the minimum 
required by law. This percentage may increase, depending 
on the results and circumstances of the year. 
For 2011, dividends accounted for 50% of the 
distributable profit, while for 2012, dividends 
corresponded to 30% of the distributable profit. 
In 2013, no dividends were distributed.
Profitability of the LATAM Airlines Group shares:  26.6% (negative)
Profitability of LAN ADR: 30.8% (negative)
Market cap (December 31, 2013): US$8.4 billionValue creation – 2013
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS62
VALUE CHAINENVIRONMENT
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS63
ENVIRONMENTOUR APPROACH
Impact reduction is included 
in LATAM Airlines Group's 
business model and considers 
investments in fleet renewal, 
environmental management 
systems, and gains in efficiencyOperational efficiency and the careful control of 
environmental impacts are at the heart of LATAM Airlines 
Group's planning. The principles of ethics, excellence, and 
continuous evolution of our processes aim to transform us 
into the best airline in Latin America and into one of the 
best in the world.
LAN's environmental strategy is under the responsibility 
of the Vice President of Corporate Affairs and is 
managed by the Environmental Management area. 
The vice president reports directly to the CEOs of 
LAN and of the LATAM Airlines Group. The senior 
management also has committees and departments 
on this subject. At TAM, management is connected to three areas: Sustainability Management, which 
covers the topic cross-divisionally, since it is a part 
of the Board of Corporate Affairs; the environmental 
section in Infrastructure and Building Management; 
and Quality Management, located at TAM MRO. These areas report to the senior executives of the company.
Pursuant to our industry-specific and corporate 
commitments, in 2013 we focused our management and 
investments on the improvement and implementation of 
management systems in business units, on the renewal of 
our fleet (over 200 new aircraft will be purchased by 2019), 
and on programs to reduce the consumption of fuel and 
the company's carbon footprint.
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS64
ENVIRONMENTenable us to monitor the impacts of various operations. At 
LAN, the management system was implemented in 66% of 
the operations. The implementation at the Miami cargo unit 
went from 27% in 2012 to 79% in 2013, which also occurred at 
Lan Argentina (from 18% to 46%), at LAN Chile (from 44% to 
73%), at LAN Peru (from 29% to 61%), at LAN Ecuador (from 
40% to 61%), and at LAN Colombia (from 41% to 67%).
Through our partnerships with strategic players in the 
industry, we have also developed innovative management 
standards and important goals to reduce the natural impact 
of the business. In 2013, LAN maintained its collaborative 
work with IATA for the development of the IENVA (IATA 
Environmental Assessment), a specific methodology for 
the environmental management and monitoring of flight 
operations. Another important achievement was IATA 's To ensure the best results, the engagement of our 
employees is essential. In 2013, a total of 364 employees 
were trained in environmental issues. Moreover, we 
offered an Internal Environmental Auditors course to the 
staff of each of our main hubs.Environmental training
According to the topics identified through LATAM Airlines 
Group's materiality matrix, the current corporate challenges 
are the matters pertaining to eco-efficiency, climate change, 
noise, air quality in airports, emissions, energy and water 
consumption, use of biofuels, and the promotion of 
sustainable tourism. [G4-EC2]
LATAM Airlines Group is undergoing a process to centralize its 
environmental management and to make it more transparent. 
To this end, we are actively working to expand the scope of our 
data and systematize its collection. This data is an achievement 
and a tool to understand and improve our performance.
In order to establish processes for continuous improvement 
and to unify all subjects, we are developing a corporate 
Environmental Management System (EMS). This tool will Carbon-Neutral Growth initiative by 2020 – a global 
agreement that establishes that airlines should present 
neutral growth by 2020 when compared with the emissions 
in the baseline year of 2005 ( learn more on page 57 ). [G4-16]
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS65
ENVIRONMENTExcelling
To minimize the impact of operations through a modern 
fleet, efficient operational management, and the continuous 
incorporation of new technologies.
Sustainability
To promote sustainable tourism as a pillar for the 
development of the region.
Eco-efficiency
To foster the efficient use of resources and the  
minimization of waste in all processes.
Responsibility
To manage our carbon footprint responsibility through the 
measurement, verification, and reduction of emissions.
Energy
To foster the development and use of more  
efficient alternative energy sources, with less impact  
on the environment.LATAM Airlines Group  
Environmental guidelines  
 [G4-EC2, G4-56]
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS66
ENVIRONMENTTAM's best practices
TAM MRO, TAM S.A.'s maintenance, repair, and inspection 
unit, located in the city of São Carlos, stands out for its 
comprehensive environmental management work. Its 
system is based on ISO 14001, for which it has been 
preparing through the analysis of improvements planned 
for 2014 and the certification process for 2015 and 2016.
Among the actions undertaken at the unit, we highlight the 
management of solid waste, with the sorting of waste and 
the co-processing of hazardous materials (class I). The unit also has two Wastewater Treatment Stations 
(ETE), which are responsible for treating all the water 
used before its discharge into Ribeirão das Araras: one 
for industrial waste (wastewater from maintenance 
activities in general) and the other for water containing 
galvanic elements (wastewater in the electroplating 
process). Domestic wastewater is monitored and sent 
for treatment at the ETE built in partnership with the 
municipality of São Carlos. Located in an area rich in 
biodiversity, TAM MRO has never been notified of or 
assessed a fine by environmental agencies on account of its treatment system. At the unit, we also conduct the 
environmental monitoring of surface and groundwater, in 
addition to reforestation and conservation of native species. 
Summary of LATAM Airlines Group's performance – 2013 [ G4 -EC2, G4-EN1, G4-EN18, G4-EN19, G4-EN30]
ENVIRONMENTAL 
COMMITMENTSImproved annual efficiency 
in fuel consumptionCarbon-neutral  
ground operationsImplementation of an Environmental Management 
System (EMS)Energy efficiency in 
infrastructureReduced waste generation Carbon-neutral growth Reduced energy 
consumption
>  Reduced fuel consumption  
per unit transported by 2020>  Carbon-neutr al ground 
operations by 2020>  EMS implemented in the main 
hubs by 2016>  Energy consumption reduced by 
10% by 2020>  Minimized waste gener ation  
by 2020>  Define str ategy to fulfill the 
commitment made by the 
industry for carbon-neutral 
growth by 2020>  Savings in energy  
consumption by 20152009 2011 2012 2012 2012 2013 2013 BASE YEAR
GOAL
ACHIEVEMENTS1.5% per year Carbon  
neutral100%   
implementation10% 10% Minimize cost  
premium from  
the industry  
commitmentUS$ 200.000
>  LAN: Reduction of 3.42% 
compared with 2012>  LAN: Reduction of 9.74% of 
carbon emissions in ground  
operations compared with 2012>  LAN: Rate of EMS implementation of 
66%, corresponding to almost twice 
the implementation rate recorded 
in 2012, and of 79% and 73% in the 
Miami and Chile units, respectively.>  LAN: Insufficient data was 
gathered to manage this 
commitment
>  T AM: Total consumption was 
reduced by 21.6% compared 
with the previous year>  LAN: Reduction of 308 tons in the 
production of waste, which is 
equivalent to 17.06% of the total  
for 2012
>  T AM: Em relação a 2012, a TAM 
aumentou em mais de 50% o total  
de resíduos enviados para reciclagem>  LAN and T AM: Unified 
commitment of the industry on 
the matter. IATA commitment 
and action plan of the 
International Civil Aviation 
Organization (OACI)>  LAN and T AM: This indicator will 
start to be analyzed in 2014
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS67
ENVIRONMENTAt TAM:
31.4%
 
of waste recycled
379.82 
tons of waste recycled
21.61%
 
reduction in the consumption  
of electricityAchievements and  
challenges, by airline  
[G4-EN6, G4-EN8, G4-EN18, G4-EN19,  
G4-EN21, G4-EN23]
* RTK (Revenue Tonne Kilometer): 
total do negócio de peso 
transportado por quilômetro.At LAN:
3.42%
 
reduction in fuel consumption
17.06%
 
reduction in the generation of waste
3.42%
 
reduction in CO₂  emissions (kg CO₂/100RTK*)
3.77%
 
reduction in NOx emissions (NOx g/RTK *)
6.65% 
reduction in water consumption (LAN Chile + LAN Colombia)
8.18% 
increase in energy consumption
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS68
ENVIRONMENTCARBON  
EMISSIONS
A core strength of our operation, 
monitoring of our carbon 
footprint is stimulated by 
management and focused on 
efficiency, on the renewal of our 
fleet, and on internal awarenessAware of the impact airlines have on climate change – 
approximately 2% of all anthropic CO₂ emissions (resulting 
from human activities) are produced by the industry – the 
LATAM Airlines Group has a plan with initiatives to reduce 
its carbon footprint. The practices include efficiency projects 
and investments in the renewal of our fleet, the monitoring 
of flight-related emissions, and the transportation required to 
conduct our activities. 
We have been developing corporate data integration 
between LAN and TAM and aligning the process to 
develop emissions inventory to improve our management.Both LAN and TAM already had management historical data 
in 2012, prior to the merger process. At LAN, measurements 
and practices adopted are the model for LATAM Airlines 
Group and a benchmark in the Latin-American airline sector 
and were implemented in 2010 based on the GHG Protocol 
methodology (www.ghgprotocol.org). TAM has also been 
preparing its inventories based on the same tool since 2008 
and gradually expanding the scope of the data.
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS69
ENVIRONMENTLAN and TAM emissions – 2013 
[G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17, G4-EN18]
Greenhouse gas emissions at the 
LATAM Airlines Group - 2013  
[G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17, G4-EN18]  
79 kg CO 2/100 RTK*Scope 1:
DirectTotal tonnes of emissions  
of CO₂ equivalent
Scope 2:
Indirect
Scope 3:
Indirect  
and others
* Based on the emissions of flight operations.Fuel consumption in  
stationary and mobile  
sources; refrigerant gasesLAN 5,631,210
TAM 6,213,477
LAN 16,624
TAM 1,973
LAN 2,998
TAM 1,284Emissions from the 
consumption of electric  energy in infrastructure
Transportation of employees, 
suppliers, and others
In 2013, our performance was 79 kg CO₂/100 RTK, at LATAM 
Airlines Group; 99.5% of our total emissions correspond to 
flight operations, thus to the consumption of fuel (see table). 
Therefore, we aim to develop measures to ensure our eco-
efficiency, especially through the renewal of our fleet and the 
rational use of fuels ( learn more on page 73 ).
We also seek to extend our practices to our audiences, 
such as customers and suppliers, in order to achieve 
improvements in our secondary operations, such as 
the transportation of employees and office activities. 
At the Cargo Unit, we have a CO₂ emissions calculator (http://www.lancargo.com/ calculadora-co2), which 
customers can use to calculate the impact generated 
by cargo transportation. In Santiago, LAN developed 
the Carpooling Program, which stimulates employees 
to share their vehicles (taxis, cars, vans, and others) to 
contribute to the reduction of emissions. TAM also has a 
program that serves the same purpose, called Caronetas .
Since 2008, TAM has been developing initiatives that aim 
to reduce aircraft weight, stimulating crewmembers to 
carry less luggage on short-haul flights and other measures 
to save energy on layovers and connecting flights.In compliance with the commitment undertaken by 
LATAM Airlines Group to manage impacts properly, 
LAN has also set the goal of neutralizing the impact 
of its ground operations by 2020. This measure is 
implemented through the purchase of certified carbon 
sequestration credits. In 2012, LAN Peru managed to 
achieve a rate of zero impact in the country, neutralizing 
the tons of CO₂ emitted by the company locally through the purchase of certified carbon sequestration 
bonuses of a native species reforestation project 
located in the Peruvian Amazon Rainforest, conducted 
by the company Bosques Amazónicos (BAM).
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS70
ENVIRONMENTEMISSIONS BY SCOPE – LATAM 
AIRLINES GROUP (2013)  
[G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17]
—MODERNIZATION OF THE FLEET AND CO₂ EMISSIONS – LAN [G4-EN18]
—
Scope 1
0.5% Scope 2 and Scope 3 99.5%
2010 2011 2012 2013Average age  
(years)
200985
75
65
60706.9
6.7
6.5
6.4
Transparency
Since 2010, LAN has reported the results of its emissions 
to the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project), a non-profit 
organization that aims to stimulate companies to present 
their emissions and to take steps to reduce them. The 
company discloses its data voluntarily and commits to 
improving its performance, in compliance with the CDP 
assessment methodology.Emissions of NOx, SOx,  
and refrigerant gases
[G4-EN20, G4-EN21]
In addition to CO₂ (carbon dioxide) emissions, the ozone layer 
is also affected by nitrogen oxides (NOx) and sulfur oxides 
(SOx) released in the transportation of cargo and passengers.
In 2013, the company emitted a total of 2.7 g NOx/100 RTK 
and a total of 12.3 g SOx/100 RTK. There are also HCFC 
(hydrochlorofluorocarbons) refrigerant gases, with a high 
potential to contribute to the greenhouse effect.Level of emissions  
(kgCO2 / 100RTK)
LAN (KG)  
HCFC-22  1,163  
HCF-125  11 
HFC-32  11  
 TAM (KG)  
HCFC-22  0 
HCFC-141b   117.6
R-22   2,765.6
HFC-134a   30
Halon-1301   350
Halon-1211   45
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS71
ENVIRONMENTECO-EFFICIENCY 
AND FUELS
In addition to programs 
for the reduction of energy 
consumption in our operations, 
we aim to contribute to 
the energy efficiency of 
the airline industryWe seek efficiency in our flight operations, considering 
the sustainability of the business and the reduction of 
environmental impacts. Our projects are based on three 
pillars: the modernization of our fleet, which enables 
us to operate with more efficient engines, reducing fuel 
consumption and emissions; operational efficiency, 
offering training to 60% of our operational, maintenance, 
and administrative staff in order to boost results; and the 
pursuit of a rational use of fuels. [G4-EN30]
In 2013, we obtained positive results for the two main 
efficiency projects of LATAM Airlines Group: Lean Fuel (LAN) and Smart Fuel (TAM). Through these programs, it was 
possible to record total savings (LATAM Airlines Group) of 
229,361 tons of CO₂ emissions and a significant reduction in 
fuel purchase costs. [G4-EN19, G4-EN6]The Lean Fuel program comprises 17 initiatives and 
actions, which include the optimization of flight 
paths and airspeeds, the reduction of unnecessary 
weight and its proper distribution within the 
aircraft, the improvement of the engine washing 
method, and the renewal of our fleet (improved 
combustion in engines). In 2013, this generated savings of 157,986 tons of CO₂, at LAN. Total fuel savings 
increased by 3.42%. [G4-EN19, G4-EN6, G4-EN27]
Additionally, TAM's Smart Fuel enabled savings of 71,374 
tons of CO2. This project consists of 14 initiatives, such as the reduced use of the APU (Auxiliary Power Unit) while on the ground, single-engine taxiing, and the use of Standard 
Operating Procedures (SOP). [G4-EN19, G4-EN6, G4-EN27]Another important initiative is the increase of aircraft capacity, 
focusing on the efficient occupancy of seats (passengers) 
and bellies (cargo), which has a direct effect on costs and environmental indicators. 
New and modern aircraft also imply a reduction in consumption 
and, therefore, in emissions as well (
learn more on page 16 ). In 
2013, we received the first Boeing 787 Dreamliners, which are 
a part of the plan concerning the use of efficient equipment and assets. Presently, we can make calculations that allow us 
to estimate the benefit of the new technologies applied to our 
aircraft (
see table on the next page ).
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS72
ENVIRONMENTLAN
LANLAN*
TAM
TAMTAM
Total LATAM Airlines 
GroupTotal LATAM Airlines 
Group
Total LATAM Airlines 
Group39,912,396 1,185.8
2,230,866,52920,810,817
60,723,213 3,083.0
4,705,161,5291,897.2
2,474,295,000CONSUMPTION OF ELECTRICITY (KWH) 
—
CONSUMPTION OF FUEL** (L) [G4-EN1, G4-EN3]
—CONSUMPTION OF REFRIGERANT GASES (KG)    [G4-EN1, G4-EN3]
—
* Data does not include Argentina and Ecuador.
** Corresponds only to the consumption of jet fuel.Fleet in the service of  
eco-efficiency [G4-EC2, G4-EN27]
Our estimates concerning the reduction 
generated in emissions due to the renewal 
of the fleet, by 2019, are as follows:> A reduction of 12% in the ASK cost ( Available Seat 
Kilometer ) with the new Boeing 787 Dreamliners
> A reduction of 17% in the ATK cost ( Available Tonne 
Kilometers , a measure of passenger and cargo capacity)  
with the new Boeing 777s (compared with the Boeing 767s)
>  A r eduction of 25% in the AK cost with the new  
Airbus 350s (compared with the A330s)
>  An incr ease of 5% in fuel efficiency with the  
installation of winglets (Boeing 767s)  Fuel and energy  
consumption – LATAM 
Airlines Group (2013)      60,723,213 kWh 
of electric power
3,083 kg 
of refrigerant gases
4,734,304,462 L 
of fuel  
(which corresponds to the consumption of jet fuel only)
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS73
ENVIRONMENTTAM was the first airline in Latin America to conduct a 
biofuel-powered flight, in 2011. The flight occurred in Brazil; 
it departed from and arrived at the Galeão airport (Rio de 
Janeiro), using a blend of jatropha curcas oil, a Brazilian 
vegetal biomass. In turn, LAN conducted the first biofuel-
powered commercial flight in South America, in Chile, in 
2012. LATAM Airlines Group also conducted flights in 2012 
in Chile using a mixture of JET1 and Cameline, and in 
Colombia, in the Bogota-Cali route, using the same fuel mix.The initiatives are parts of LATAM Airlines Group's 
understanding about the importance of the future use of 
this type of technology: a product produced using a blend 
of natural biological residues and/or resources capable of 
reducing CO₂ emitted during flights by 80%. In order to add 
to the discussion about the subject, TAM is a member of 
ABRABA (Brazilian Alliance for Aviation Biofuels).Biofuel research has been extensively discussed in the 
industry, with public and private entities. The main hurdles 
for the global implementation of this input are the high 
production costs and the need to implement it on a large 
scale in Latin America and in other markets in order to 
ensure the routine fueling of the operations. We expect to 
have this type of fuel readily available by 2030.Biofuel [G4-EC2]
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS74
ENVIRONMENTWASTE AND 
WASTEWATER
In 2013, we expanded  
waste sorting, increased 
the percentage of materials 
recycled, and made 
advances in best practices 
for wastewater treatmentLATAM Airlines Group's work in the management 
of waste and wastewater prioritizes the control, 
disposal, and efficient use of discarded materials. In 
order to conduct our air or ground operations, we 
require a number of inputs – such as oils, fuels, parts, 
and office supplies – which, when discarded, may 
become hazardous and non-hazardous waste.
Non-hazardous waste is the most common in relation to on-
board meals/catering and in the administrative office and 
includes paper, PET bottles, aluminum, and similar materials. 
At LAN, there is a recycling project that includes the collection 
of waste generated in all operations that is destined to 
entities or companies for proper disposal or reuse/recycling. 
Depending on the destinations we serve, we take measures to 
reduce environmental impacts. LAN flights to Easter Island, for example, do not generate waste locally: all material to be 
disposed of is shipped back to Santiago in order to protect the 
local ecosystem. In 2013, the LATAM Airlines Group generated 
a total of 2,707.9 tons of hazardous and non-hazardous waste 
(see charts on  the next page ). [G4-EN23, G4-EN30]
TAM has the In-flight Waste Sorting program, available on 
a number of domestic flights in Brazil, with service trolleys 
adapted with compartments for organic and recyclable waste. 
The action, whose processes will be reviewed in 2014, complies 
with a waste disposal guideline implemented by the Brazilian 
Airport Infrastructure Company (INFRAERO), in the Congonhas 
Airport, in São Paulo. Approximately 85% of the materials 
collected in-flight are recyclable.
There are sets of recycling bins for each type of waste 
(paper, plastic, metal, non-recyclable, etc.). At the base of the cargo business in Miami, LAN has a system to 
compress plastic waste, which improves the recycling 
process. In partnership with specialized suppliers, we 
are also recycling the uniforms used by teams.
Hazardous waste is more frequently produced in the aircraft 
maintenance activities we conduct in hangars, maintenance 
centers, and at the TAM MRO unit, such as solvents, 
used detergents, batteries, oil and kerosene containers, 
fluorescent lights, contaminated fuels, and sludge. These 
materials are either recycled, sent to landfills, or incinerated. 
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS75
ENVIRONMENTWaste –  
LATAM Airlines Group 
[G4-EN23]
2,707.8  
tons of waste were generated in 2013Water and wastewater  [G4-EN8]
Management of water resources withdrawn for the operation 
and wastewater discharged into bodies of water is one 
of the main challenges of the LATAM Airlines Group. In 
2013, LAN's Environmental Management Department 
conducted a study whose diagnosis shows that wastewater 
from the engine washing process is not hazardous; 
therefore, it may be reused in other activities. This water, 
which used to be collected by a specialized company, is 
now reused. In the same year, water consumption at 
LAN (excluding Argentina and Miami) was reduced by 
6.65%, a result of the improvements in the operations.TAM MRO, in São Carlos, has the best wastewater 
management practices, treating industrial and organic 
waste and conducting the environmental monitoring of 
local surface and groundwater. The challenge of properly 
disposing of the various types of waste and water used in 
our operations is extended to our suppliers, which, since 
2013, have been encouraged to develop best practices 
through our Procurement Policy.
LAN LAN
LANLAN
TAM TAM
TAMTAM452.86 1,496.79 182,753
1043.93454762.90
Total LATAM Airlines Group  Total LATAM Airlines Group  1,211.02
448.12GENERATION OF  
HAZARDOUS WASTE (TONS)
—
GENERATION OF  
NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE (TONS)
—TOTAL WASTE (HAZARDOUS  
AND NON-HAZARDOUS) (TONS)
—WATER CONSUMPTION (M³)
—
2,707.81 229,09946,346
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS76
ENVIRONMENTNOISE AND  
AIR QUALITY
In addition to complying with a 
number of noise regulations, we 
have the challenge of pursuing 
new technologies to reduce our 
noise and air quality impactsThe initiatives that contribute to noise reduction and 
improvement of air quality in the vicinity of airports focus 
on the acquisition of cleaner aircraft, on the planning 
of flight paths, and on the pursuit of methods to move 
aircraft with the lowest impact possible, from takeoff and 
landing operations to taxiing for maintenance. One of these 
procedures is the one-engine taxi, which allows operations to 
be conducted in hangars and airports using a single engine. 
In LAN Cargo's operations, the current engine 
technology has reduced the impact of noise pollution. 
Modern aircraft emit less noise, thus the result is 
especially relevant in airports where there is intense air traffic and those located within the urban areas of 
large cities, such as Congonhas (São Paulo), Santos 
Dumont (Rio de Janeiro), and Newark (New York).
As a part of our risk management and planning activities, 
we have been conducting, over the past two years, an 
in-depth analysis of the applicable legislation concerning 
the noise and air quality topics in the markets where we operate. The entire LAN fleet complies with the Chapter 
IV standard, the best safety certification currently in 
existence, according to the International Civil Aviation 
(ICAO). The efforts made to modernize the fleet have been 
very important, considering that the new Boeing 787-800s 
contribute to reducing noise pollution and reducing the 
airport area of influence. [G4-2, G4-46, G4-EN27, G4-SO2]
In 2013, LATAM Airlines Group proceeded with its project 
to modernize the Airbus A320 fleet through the acquisition 
of sharklets, which are cutting-edge technology devices 
that are installed on wing tips to reduce aerodynamic drag. 
This ensures a more efficient takeoff, achieving improved 
efficiency in fuel consumption and reducing the emissions 
of CO2 (by approximately 4%), as well as noise. In April 
2013, the company received the first Airbus 320s equipped 
with sharklets from a total of over 100 aircraft with this 
technology, which will be received by 2017. [G4-EN27, G4-SO2]
The company reinforces compliance with noise  
regulations where it operates:>  Brazil: Regulation 121, issued by the National Civil 
Aviation Agency of Brazil (ANAC).
>  United States: Airport Noise and Capacity Act  
1990 (ANCA), issued by the Federal Aviation 
Administration (FAA).
>  Colombia: Currently, flight permissions are 
limited to aircraft above category 3 noise level - a 
criterion met by LATAM Airlines Group.
>  Argentina: In this country, we follow the permission for 
category 3, pursuant to chapter 91,805 of the Civil Aviation 
Regulations of Argentina.
>  Chile: There are no restrictions or regulations in place; 
however, LAN complies with the same flight regulation for 
category 3 aircraft or above for noise.
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS77
ENVIRONMENT>  SOP ( Standard Operating 
Procedures)  
       Continuall y reviewed, this operational guideline 
enables the implementation of the best environmental, 
operating, safety, and efficiency procedures.
>  One en gine taxi 
       A t echnique that allows aircraft to taxi at the airport 
using a single engine, reducing the consumption of fuel 
and emissions.
>  Minimized AP U use (Auxiliary 
Power Unit)
       With improved infrastructure for ground support, it is 
possible to reduce the use of the equipment, producing 
positive results in fuel efficiency.
> Engine washing (turbines)
       Thr ough a frequent maintenance program,  
we can reduce the emission of particulate matter  
in the operation.Actions for the reduction  
of impacts [G4-EC2, G4-EN27]
> Use of electric vehicles
       This measur e helps reducing the consumption 
of fuel and improving local air quality, reducing 
noise levels. Since 2010, we have been using 
electrical equipment in ground support activities 
in our facilities in Chile and Miami.  
> RNP flight system (RNAV)
      This s ystem enables the optimization of the flight paths 
taken by aircraft, reduction of noise pollution, and 
control of gas emissions in processes prior to landing in 
low-visibility and/or constantly cloudy areas, allowing 
the process to be more environmentally friendly.Type Detailing Colombia Argentina Chile Peru Miami Ecuador BrazilGrand Total
(adjusted by RTK)
Fuel for flight 
operationsJet Fuel 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
Fuel for  
stationary  
sourcesDiesel 100% 0% 100% 100% 100% 0% 0% 47%
Natural Gas 100% 0% 100% 100% 100% 0% 0% 47%
Gasoline 100% 0% 100% 100% 100% 0% 0% 47%
LPG 100% 0% 100% 100% 100% 0% 0% 47%
Fuel for  
mobile sources Diesel 58% 100% 83% 92% 100% 50% 0% 47%
Gasoline 100% 100% 91% 92% 100% 63% 0% 50%
LPG 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 0% 53%
Refrigerant gases HCFC-22 100% 0% 100% 100% 100% 0% 100% 93%
COBUS in other 
companiesJet Fuel 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 0% 100%
Electricity Electricity 97% 0% 100% 13% 100% 0% 100% 84%
Water Water 100% 0% 100% 15% 0% 31% 0% 24%
Non-hazardous 
wasteNon-
hazardous
waste100% 0% 100% 100% 0% 0% 100% 79%
Hazardous wasteHazardous 
waste100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%COVERAGE OF ENVIRONMENTAL DATA BY COUNTRY  [G4-20, G4-21]
—
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS78
ENVIRONMENTGRI CONTENTS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
This Sustainability Report 
contains responses to various 
aspects of the social and environmental indicators, in compliance with version G4 of 
the GRI Guidelines
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN ENVIRONMENT GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS79
GRI CONTENTSDescription Omission Global 
CompactExternal 
assurancePage/response
GENERAL CONTENT
Strategy and analysis
G4-1 Message  from the senior management Yes 4, 5, 6, 7
G4-2Description of key impacts,  
risks, and opportunities Yes 4, 5, 6, 7, 17
Organizational profile
G4-3 Name of the organization Yes 9
G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services Yes 9, 11
G4-5 Location of organization's headquarters Yes 9
G4-6Countries where the organization operates  
and where its major operations are locatedYes 9
G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Yes 9
G4-8 Markets served Yes 9, 11
G4-9 Scale of the organization Yes 9, 11, 12
G4-10 Employee profile Principle 6 Yes 40
G4-11 Percentage of employees covered  
by collective bargaining agreementsPrinciple 3 Yes 38
G4-12 Description of the organization’s supply chain Yes 58
G4-13Changes regarding the organization’s size, 
structure, ownership, or its supply chainYes There were no significant changes in 2013.
G4-14Explanation of whether and how the 
precautionary principle is addressed by the 
organizationYesAll services of the LATAM Airlines Group, 
including routes, itineraries, maintenance 
activities, and customer loyalty programs, are 
developed pursuant to the applicable legislation, 
considering the potential risks and impacts they 
may have on consumers and society. However, 
the company does not formally adopt the 
precautionary principle in its business planning.
G4-15Externally developed economic,  
environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives YesThe LATAM Airlines Group is a signatory to  
the Global Compact of the United Nations.
G4-16Membership of associations  
and/or organizationsYes 56, 57, 65Description Omission External 
assurancePage/response
Material aspects and boundaries
G4-17List all entities included in the organization’s 
consolidated financial statements and other equivalent documents not covered by the report YesThe GRI indicators do not contain information 
about Multiplus S.A., TAM Paraguay, or the 
International Business offices that are not 
located in the home markets.
G4-18 Process for defining report content Yes 7, 28
G4-19 List of material aspects Yes 28, 29
G4-20Materiality and boundaries of each aspect 
within the organizationYes 28, 29
G4-21Materiality and boundaries of each aspect 
outside the organizationYes 28, 29
G4-22Restatements of information provided in 
previous reportsYes
This is the first report produced by the LATAM 
Airlines Group; therefore, no data or boundary 
was restated.G4-23Significant changes in the scope and coverage 
of each aspect in relation to previous reportsYes
Stakeholder engagement
G4-24List of stakeholder groups  
engaged by the organizationYes 28, 30-62
G4-25Basis for identification and selection of 
stakeholders with whom to engageYes 28, 30-62
G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement Yes 28, 30-62
G4-27Key topics and concerns that have been raised 
through stakeholder engagementYes 28, 30-62
Report profile
G4-28 Reporting period YesThis is the first integrated report produced  
by the LATAM Airlines Group. The previous  
report prepared by LAN was in 2012, and by  
TAM in 2011 and 2012. G4-29 Date of previous report Yes
G4-30 Reporting cycle Yes The report will be presented annually. 
G4-31 Contact point regarding the report Yes 7
G4-32“In accordance” option  
and the GRI Content Index Yes 7
G4-33Organization’s policy and practice  
with regard to external assuranceYes 7, 84 and 85
Governance
G4-34 Estrutura de governança da organização Yes 13, 14, 15
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN ENVIRONMENT GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS80
GRI CONTENTSDescription Omission Global 
CompactExternal 
assurancePage/response
Ethics and integrity
G4-56Organization’s values, principles, 
standards, and norms of behaviorPrinciple 10 Yes 14, 17, 58, 66
SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES
Category: Economy
Economic performance
G4-DMA Management Approach No 25
G4-EC1 Direct economic value  
generated and distributedYes 25
G4-EC2Risks and opportunities  
for the organization’s activities  
due to climate changePrinciple 7 Yes 57, 65, 66, 67, 73, 74, 78
G4-EC4Significant financial assistance 
received from governmentYes 56
Market presence
G4-DMA Management Approach No 39
G4-EC6 Local hiring Principle 6 Yes 39
Indirect economic impacts
G4-DMA Management Approach No 48, 51, 52, 54, 58, 60
G4-EC7Impact of infrastructure investments 
offered for public benefitYes 48, 51, 54
G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts Yes 52, 58, 60
Procurement practices 
G4-DMA Management Approach No 58
G4-EC9Policies, practices, and proportion of 
spending on local suppliersYes 58
Category: Environmental
Materials
G4-DMA Management Approach No 67, 73
G4-EN1 Materials by weight or volume Principle 7 Yes 67, 73
Energy 
G4-DMA Management Approach No 68, 72, 73
G4-EN3Energy consumption  
within the organizationPrinciples 7, 8 Yes 72
G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Principles 8, 9 Yes 68, 73Description Omission Global CompactExternal 
assurancePage/response
Water 
G4-DMA Management Approach No 68, 73
G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Principles 7, 8 Yes 68, 76
Emissions
G4-DMA Management Approach No 67, 68, 70,71
G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions Principles 7, 8 Yes 70, 71
G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions Principles 7, 8 Yes 70, 71
G4-EN17 Other direct greenhouse gas emissions Principles 7, 8 Yes 70, 71
G4-EN18 Current greenhouse gas emissions intensity Principle 8 Yes 67, 68, 70, 71
G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions Principles 8, 9 Yes 67, 68, 70, 71
G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Principles 7, 8 Yes 71
G4-EN21NOx, SOx, and other significant  
air emissions Principles 7, 8 Yes 71
Effluents and waste
G4-DMA Management Approach No 68, 75, 76
G4-EN23Total weight of waste by type and disposal 
methodPrinciple 8 Yes 68, 75, 76
Products and Services
G4-DMA Management Approach No 32, 76, 77, 78
G4-EN27Total weight of waste by  
type and disposal methodPrinciples 7, 8 Yes 32, 76, 77, 78
Transportation
G4-DMA Management Approach No 67, 72, 75
G4-EN30Significant environmental impacts  
of transporting products and members  
of the workforcePrinciple 8 Yes 67, 72, 75
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN ENVIRONMENT GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS81
GRI CONTENTSDescription Omission Global 
CompactExternal 
assurancePage/response
Category: Social - labor practices and decent work
Employment
G4-DMA Management Approach No 41, 44
G4-LA1Total number and rates of new employee hires and average 
employee turnover by age group, gender, and regionPrinciple 6 Yes 41
G4-LA2Social benefits provided to full-time employees that are 
not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by 
significant locations of operationYes 44
Occupational health and safety
G4-DMA Management Approach No 45
G4-LA6Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, 
lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-
related fatalities, by region and by genderYes 45
G4-LA7Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases 
related to their occupationYes 45
Training and education
G4-DMA Management Approach No 39, 42
G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year, per employee Principle 6 Yes 42
G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning Yes 42
G4-LA11Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 
and career development  reviewsPrinciple 6 Yes 39
Category: Social – human rights
Security practices
G4-DMA Management Approach No 43
G4-HR7Percentage of security personnel trained in the 
organization’s human rights policies or proceduresPrinciple 1 Yes 43
Category: Social - society
Local communities
G4-DMA Management Approach No 47, 48, 50, 53, 54, 59, 77
G4-SO1Percentage of centers with implemented development 
programs, impact assessments, and local community 
engagementPrinciple 1 Yes 48, 50, 54
G4-SO2Operations with significant potential or actual  
negative impacts on local communitiesPrinciple 1 Yes 47, 53, 59, 77
Compliance with Regulations
G4-DMA Management Approach Confidential data No Not reported
G4-SO8Monetary value of significant fines and total number of 
non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws 
and regulationsConfidential data NoInformation concerning  
this indicator is confidential. Description Omission Global 
CompactExternal 
assurancePage/response
Supplier assessment for impacts on society
G4-DMA Management Approach No 59
G4-SO9Percentage of new suppliers that were 
screened using criteria for impacts on societyYesNo social criteria for screening suppliers were 
used in previous years. The company´s current 
suppliers were screened during 2013.
G4-SO10Significant and potential negative impacts on 
society in the supply chain and actions takenYes 59
Mechanisms for grievances about impacts on society
G4-DMA Management Approach No
G4-SO11Number of grievances about impacts on 
society filed, addressed, and resolved  through 
formal grievance mechanismsNoNo data was recorded for 2011 and 2012. Data for 
2013 is confidential concerning the number of 
grievances. However, incidents can be reported 
by phone, on our website, by fax, by letter, 
through the regulatory agencies of the industry, 
through consumer rights organizations, or through the press and social networks.
Category: Social - product responsibility
Customer health and safety
G4-DMA Management Approach No 37
G4-PR1Percentage of significant product and service 
categories for which health and safety impacts 
were assessedYes 37
G4-PR2Incidents of non-compliance with regulations 
or voluntary codes concerning the health and 
safety impacts of products and servicesYesorganization did not identify any incidents of 
non-compliance. 
Product and service labeling
G4-DMA Management Approach No 34, 39
G4-PR5 Customer satisfaction Yes 34, 39
Marketing Communications
G4-DMA Management Approach Confidential data No Not reported
G4-PR7Incidents of non-compliance with regulations 
and voluntary codes  concerning marketing 
communicationsConfidential data NoInformation concerning this  
indicator is confidential.
Customer privacy
G4-DMA Management Approach Confidential data No Not reported
G4-PR8Complaints regarding breach of privacy  
and loss of customer dataConfidential data NoInformation concerning this indicator  
is confidential.
Compliance with Regulations
G4-DMA Management Approach Confidential data No Not reported
G4-PR9Significant fines for non-compliance with laws 
and regulations concerning the provision and 
use of products and servicesConfidential data NoInformation concerning this indicator  
is confidential.
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN ENVIRONMENT GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS82
GRI CONTENTSGLOSSARYHome markets 
Markets where the LATAM Airlines Group has direct 
operations (Chile, Brazil, Peru, Colombia, Ecuador, 
Argentina, and Paraguay)
Hubs 
Major operation centers (airports) where  
international departures are concentrated
Compliance 
Procedures and norms concerning compliance with 
corporate practices
Catering 
Food services
Risk rating agency 
Agencies that assess the creditworthiness  
of organizations that issue shares in public marketsAmerican Depositary Receipt (ADR)/ 
Brazilian Depositary Receipt (BDR) 
Securities issued and negotiated in the United States and 
Brazil
Synergies 
Value saved due to the merger between LAN and TAM 
(gains through the integration of operations)
Slots 
Areas occupied in airport facilities, authorized for airlines
Belly 
Internal space inside passenger aircraft, destined  
for the accommodation of cargo
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS83
GLOSSARYINDEPENDENT 
REVISION REPORT 
OF LATAM 
SUSTAINABILITY 
REPORT 2013
      Risk 
Rosario Norte 407  
Piso 8  
Las Condes, Santiago  
Chile  
Fono: (56 -2) 729 8281  
Fax: (56 -2) 374 9190  
e-mail: risk chile@deloitte.com  
www.deloitte.cl  
 
 
   
 
INFORME DE REVISIÓN INDEPENDIENTE DEL  REPORTE DE SOSTENIBILIDAD 2 013 LATAM   
 
Señor  
Bruno Ardito 
Director de Relaciones Corporativas  
Presente 
 
De nuestra consideración:  
 Hemos realizado la revisión de los siguientes aspectos del Reporte  de Sostenibilidad 2013 de LA TAM: 
  
Alcance 
 
√ Revisión de seguridad limitada de l a adaptac ión de los contenidos e indicadores del Reporte de 
Sostenibilidad 2013  con lo establecido en la Guía  para la elaboración de Memorias de Sustentabilidad  
GRI en su versión G4 en cuanto al perfil de la organización e indicadores  materiales surgidos del 
proces o de materialidad realizado por la compañía en torno a los criterios establecidos en la guía GRI -
G4, relacionados a las dimensiones Económica, Social y Ambiental.  
 
 
Estándares y procesos de verificación  
 
Hemos realizado nuestro trabajo de acuerdo con la Internacional Standard on Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (ISAE 3000) emitida por el International 
Auditing and Assurance Standard Board (IAASB) de la International Federation of Accounts (IFAC ) 
 
Nuestro trabajo de revisión ha consistido en l a formulación de preguntas a diversas  unidades y gerencias de 
LATAM  que se han visto involucradas en el proceso de realización de este reporte, así como en la 
aplicación de procedimientos analíticos y pruebas de revisión  que se describen a continuación.  
 
√ Reunión con el Director de Relaciones Corporativas , Sr. Bruno Ardito. 
√ Reunión con la Jefa de Responsabilidad Social  Corporativa, Srta. María Loreto Silva. 
√ Reunión con el equipo que lideró el proceso de materialidad.  
√ Reuniones con el equipo  de la consultora externa  responsabl e de la elaboración del Reporte de 
Sostenibilidad 2013   para conocer los principios, sistemas y enfoques de gestión aplicados.   
√ Análisis de la adaptación de los contenidos del Reporte de Sostenibilidad 2013  a los recomendados en 
la Guía GRI -G4 y comprobación que los indica dores  verificados   incluidos en este Reporte  se 
corresponden con los protocolos establecidos por dicho estándar y que se justifican los indicadores no 
aplicables  o no materiales . 
√ Com probación, mediante pruebas de revisión de la información cuantitativa y cualitativa 
correspondiente a los indicadores GRI  G4 incluida en el Reporte de Sostenibilidad 2013  y su adecuada 
compilación a partir de los datos suministrados por las fuentes de información de LATAM. 
Mr.
Bruno Ardito
Director of Corporate Relationships
Present
Dear Mr. Ardito,
Hereby, you can find the outcomes of the 
revision of LATAM Sustainability Report 2013 
according to the following aspects:
Scope
√ Limited security revision of the contents and indicators’ 
adaptation of the 2013 Sustainability Report according to the 
G4 version of the GRI guidelines for Sustainability Reports, 
related to the organizational profile and material indicators 
arisen from the materiality process developed by the 
Company following the GRI-G4 criteria related to economic, 
social and environmental dimensions.
Standards and Assurance Process
We have carried out our task according the guidelines of the 
International Standard on Assurance Engagements Other 
than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information 
(ISAE 3000) issued by the International Auditing and 
Assurance Standard Board (IAASB) of the International 
Federation of Accountants (IFAC).Our review has consisted in an enquiring process to 
different units and management areas of LATAM, which 
have been involved in the developing process of the report, 
as well as in the application of analytic procedures and 
checking tests, which are described in the following items:
>  M eeting with the Director of Corporate Relationships, Mr. 
Bruno Ardito.
>  M eeting with the Corporate Social Responsibility Chief, 
Miss María Loreto Silva.
>  M eeting with the entire team which has led the  
materiality process.
>  M eetings with external consultant Company in charge 
of the elaboration of the 2013 Sustainability Report, in order to know the principles, systems and management 
approaches applied during the report elaboration.
>  Anal ysis of the adaptation of the 2013 Sustainability 
Report’s contents to the GRI-G4 guideline 
recommendations and the review of the indicators 
included in the report in order to verify that they are 
aligned with the established protocols in GRI-G4. We 
also check whether the character of not applicable or not 
material indicators is justified.
>  V erification, through checking tests of quantitative and 
qualitative information according to the GRI-G4 indicators 
included in the 2013 report, and its adequate gathering 
from the data provided by LATAM information sources.Risk
Rosario Norte 407Piso 8
Las Condes, Santiago
Chile
Fono: (56-2) 729 8281
Fax: (56-2) 374 9190
e-mail: riskchile@deloitte.com
www.deloitte.cl
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY CORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS84
LETTER OF 
ASSURANCEImproving Opportunities Report
On the basis of GRI-G4 procedures, nothing has come to our 
attention which causes us to conclude that the selected data 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 have not been prepared 
in all material respects in accordance with the GRI-G4 
Reporting guidelines.
LATAM Direction and  
Deloitte Responsibilities
>  The pr eparation of the 2013 Sustainability Report as well 
as its content is under LATAM responsibility, which is in 
charge of the definition, adaptation and maintenance of the 
management and internal control systems from which the 
information is obtained.
>  Our r esponsibility is to emit an independent report based 
on the applied procedures in our review.
>  This r eport has been prepared exclusively by LATAM 
interest, in accordance with the terms established in the 
Engagement Letter.
>  W e have developed our work according to  
the Independence norms established in the Code  
of Ethics of the IFAC.
>  The c onclusions of the verification made by Deloitte go for 
the last version of the 2013 LATAM Sustainability Report 
received on May 22, 2014.>  The sc ope of a limited security revision is essentially 
inferior to a reasonable audit or security revision, thus, 
we do not give any audit opinion about the 2013 LATAM 
Sustainability Report.
Fernando Gaziano.
Partner
May 23, 2014Conclusions
>  The assur ance process was based in the indicators 
established in the materiality process carried out by LATAM. 
Once those indicators were identified, prioritized and 
validated they were included in the report. The reported 
and verified indicators appear in the following table:
GRI G4
Basic General Indicators
[G4-1]   [G4-2]   [G4-3]   [G4-4]   [G4-5]   [G4-6]   [G4-7]  
[G4-8]   [G4-9 ]   [G4-10]   [G4-11]   [G4-12]   [G4-13]   [G4-14]  
[G4-15]   [G4-16]   [G4-17]   [G4-18]   [G4-19]   [G4-20]   [G4-21]  
[G4-22]   [G4-23]   [G4-24]   [G4-25]   [G4-26]   [G4-27]   [G4-28]
[G4-29]   [G4-30]   [G4-31]   [G4-32]   [G4-33]   [G4-34]   [G4-56]
Basic Specific Indicators
[G4-EC1]   [G4-EC2]   [G4-EC4]   [G4-EC6]   [G4- EC7]    
[G4- EC8]   [G4- EC9]   [G4-EN1]   [G4-EN3]   [G4-EN6]    [G4-EN8]   [G4-EN15]   [G4-EN16]   [G4-EN17]   [G4-EN18]   [G4-EN19]   [G4-EN20]   [G4-EN21]   [G4-EN23]   [G4-EN27]   
[G4-EN30]   [G4-LA1]   [G4-LA2]   [G4-LA6]   [G4-LA7]    [G4-LA9]   [G4-LA10]   [G4-LA11]   [G4-SO1]   [G4-SO2]    [G4-SO9]   [G4-SO10]   [G4-HR7]   [G4-PR1]   [G4-PR2]   [G4-PR5] 
>  On the basis of GRI- G4 procedures, nothing has come to 
our attention which causes us to conclude that the selected 
data for the year ended 31 December 2013 have not been 
prepared in all material respects in accordance with the 
GRI-G4 Reporting guidelines.
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY CORPORATE 
INFORMATIONCREDITS85
LETTER OF 
ASSURANCEGeneral Coordination
Director, Institutional Relations and Corporate Social Responsibility
Bruno Ardito
Loreto Silva Lavín
Director, Institutional Relations and Sustainability
Gislaine Rossetti
Cristine Naum
Marina Borrelli
Isis Esperante
Editorial production, design, and GRI consulting
Report Sustentabilidade
Team: Mayara Evangelista (gestão de projetos e relacionamento), Guto Lobato 
(edição), Rúbia Piancastelli (redação), Adriana Lima, Thais Colpaert e Thais 
Fantazia (materialidade e consultoria GRI), Guilherme Falcão (projeto gráfico) e Naná de Freitas (diagramação)
Translation
Gotcha Idiomas!
Família Tipográfica
Meta Serif OT and Vista Sans OT CREDITS
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECORPORATE 
INFORMATION86
CREDITSCORPORATE 
INFORMATIONLATAM Airlines Group
Avenida Presidente Riesco 5711, Piso 19
Las Condes, Santiago, Chile
Tel: (56) (2) 2565 2525
Fax: (56) (2) 2565 8764
Website
www.latamairlinesgroup.net
www.lan.com
www.tam.com.br
LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
FOREWORD THE COMPANY OUR STRATEGY VALUE CHAIN ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENTS GLOSSARY LETTER OF 
ASSURANCECREDITS87
CORPORATE 
INFORMATION